https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87575.The_Mystery_of_the_Fiery_Eye
I didn't enjoy this one quite as much as the previous books. I don't know if the formulaic stories are starting to wear on me, or it this one just wasn't as good.The international boy this time was English, so they are sticking with that plot device. This time they are searching for a cursed ruby. It's a pretty typical mystery, with nothing special and no big surprises. Still not bad, just less than what I expect from the series.
Ich hatte mir eine englische Taschenbuchausgabe aus den Neunzigern mit diesem grässlichen Cover gekauft: Trotz des eher bescheuerten Aussehens, hat es Spaß gemacht, es auf Englisch zu lesen.
Ich finde das gerade auch die sehr alten Illustrationen einen Charme haben, auch wenn besonders Peter und Bob so gar nicht meinem Bild entsprechen.
Sprachlich habe ich gelernt, dass die Telefonlawine im Original "Ghost-to-Ghost Hookup" heißt, wobei das Ghost ein Codewort für die ganzen Kinder ist.
Warum man aus Worthington allerdings Morton gemacht hat, erschließt sich mir nicht.
Ist das für deutsche Augen/Ohren wirklich so viel leichter?
Das ganze wirkt eher sehr formular-haft und etwas gezwungen.
Very enjoyable, with virtually all of the regular cast in attendance, this is well worth a look.2013 update - My 2009 review stands completely, this is well-written and fast paced (though the ending is a bit curt and I wonder why they didn’t write Hitchcock’s round-up as a chapter, rather than a summary).
Brilliant fun, with a good atmosphere and a cracking pace, this is a great read.2017 update - I stand by the previous reviews completely, this has a great pace, a good atmosphere and locations and is good fun (and also highlights Robert Arthur’s love for Sherlock Holmes).
Sorry, Jupiter.
Better luck next time.We have a missing jewel, some mysterious busts, a riddle, and a boy named August August.
Anyway, the Three Investigators are on the case, and when I say the Three Investigators I mean Jupiter Jones, with a little bit of Bob Andrews thrown in for basic library research.
Pete, you are dead weight, my friend.
I fail to see you investigate anything.
More like One Investigator and his Tag Along Friends, amirite?
The mystery is a good one and I remember this one fondly.
Remember, I am re-reading the whole series so you don't have to!
One of the best stories in the Three Investigator series since the Stuttering Parrot. Excellent pacing, tension, and riddles.
The best childhood series I read starting in the fourth grade. The best of the so called "syndicate Books" Reading them now brings back the memories and pleasure I had when reading them as a child.
Three young boys run an investigation agency and are contacted by Alfred Hitchcock to find a missing inheritance for someone called August August. Firstly, what a mean set of parents August has. But apart from that, the book was fast moving, had a number of twists and turns, and kept me interested. Lost a star because everything wrapped up very quickly in the end.This was the first of the Alfred Hitchcock and the Three Investigators books I've read, but I'll seek out more as it was enjoyable.
3.75 Fun read, easy to follow and loved the old time talk. Well that's just smashing! Wish people still talked like that! I also enjoyed that at the end of the book Alfred Hitchcock sort of came in and wrapped up any lose ends, very complete that way. Most likely meant for younger audiences.
V rámci žánru skvelá knižka s príchuťou nostalgie. Jedna z lepších záhad Troch pátračov, klasický Robert Arthur sa nezaprie.
Gus, as he prefers to be called, is looking for help solving a riddle left him as part of an inheritance from his Great-Uncle Horatio who recently died in California.
That was part of the charm for me--I've now started looking for vintage editions (like the one pictured above) where Hitchcock still provides the introductions and interacts with the boys.These books are good solid stories for young readers.
It's good fun and the clues are such that the young reader has a chance to solve the mystery before Jupe does.
All of the titles in the Three Investigators series are great stories, but after the first 5 titles were absolutely awesome, I recently lamented that the sixth book seemed to be fairly "Hardy Boy-ish" in structure.
The sixth book seemed to rely more on lucky breaks and improbable finds than on good old fashioned deduction of the facts.
The Mystery of the Fiery Eye is brilliant and an awesome read for ALL readers, but it is especially special for those of us who wish to "delve deeper" into the mysteries of the Three Investigators!
Trio detektif kembali dihadapkan pada suatu misteri berdasarkan pesan wasiat orang yang sudah mati.
Ternyata jawabannya ada di dekat markas mereka sendiri.
Tepatnya ada pada salah satu barang dagangan paman dan bibi Jupiter Jones.
Berkat bantuan ghost-to-ghost hookup, trio detektif kembali menemukannya.
Tapi bener ga sih jawabannya ada di situ?
Ternyata hanya ada pesan, "Anda belum beruntung.
Coba lagi!" Hehehehe, intinya pesan semacam itu lah...
Selain harus memecahkan misteri dalam wasiat untuk menemukan harta bernilai, mereka juga harus menghadapi sekelompok penjahat dan seseorang bertampang seram yang berasal dari Pleshiwar, India.
Juga kenyataan bahwa hadiah menumpang golden Rolls Royce sudah berakhir masanya.
Of the Three Investigators books, I like the Stuttering Parrot the most, but this is up there alongside Terror Castle and Whispering Mummy as another enjoyable read.
There's some really lucky/unlucky breaks that push my belief a bit, but I overlook those since it is a childrens' series and there's a lot of action and decently clever moments to draw me in.
I appreciate a lot of things like Octavian's name, and moments like the kids being trapped.
I hope the female Liz Logan reappears in this as a potential 4th investigator, but I hope there isn't romance, and its still focused on cleverness and action.
trio detektif membantu Gus, seorang anak berkebangsaan Inggris untuk memecahkan teka-teki surat warisan peninggalan alm pamannya. kalau nggak salah dulu jaman smp pernah baca buku ini,tapi ceritanya lupa-lupa ingat. baca buku ini jadi inget salah satu cerita sherlock tentang permata yg disembunyikan didalam patung gips. yang bikin agak sebel, dibuku ini trio detektif selalu aja ngebahas sebelnya mereka karena jatah peminjaman mobilnya sudah habis. gimana sebelnya mereka kalo kemana-mana harus jalan kaki atau naik bus apalagu kalau tujuannya ke Hollywood, seakan2 tanpa mobil trio detektif bakalan bubar.
তিন গোয়েনদার ঠিক কোন বইটা, এতদিন পর আর মনে পড়ছে না। তবে শুরুর দিকের পাঁচ/ছটি বইয়ের মধযে যে কোনো একটা বই এই বইটি থেকে অনুবাদকৃত। যদিও সেবা বিদেশী গলপের ছায়া বলে চালিয়ে দিয়েছে এবং কখনই আমাদের মূল লেখকের নাম জানতে দেয়নি। শুধু এই একটা কারণেই সেবাকে আমি কখনও কষমা করতে পারবো না। ঠিক একই কারণে মাসুদ রানা চরিতরটিকেও এখন আর ভালো লাগে না।
তিন গোয়েন্দার ঠিক কোন বইটা, এতদিন পর আর মনে পড়ছে না। তবে শুরুর দিকের পাঁচ/ছটি বইয়ের মধ্যে যে কোনো একটা বই এই বইটি থেকে অনুবাদকৃত। যদিও সেবা বিদেশী গল্পের ছায়া বলে চালিয়ে দিয়েছে এবং কখনই আমাদের মূল লেখকের নাম জানতে দেয়নি। শুধু এই একটা কারণেই সেবাকে আমি কখনও ক্ষমা করতে পারবো না। ঠিক একই কারণে মাসুদ রানা চরিত্রটিকেও এখন আর ভালো লাগে না।
This book in the series is a fun one. Jupe gets to have some fun by pretending to read Bob's mind, the use of the Rolls Royce is lost and then bought for them to use permanently, and we meet a boy who's first name is the same as his last name.
finished the reread (after some 25 years) yesterday. The book holds up surprisingly well after such a gap. it doesn't feel kiddish or tame. It is rather "adult-dumb" at times but the mystery is interesting and moves very well.
Read this book earlier, I mean read another book that was based on this book, not a bad story though but kinda liked the copied/inspired one more.
****1/2
Loved this story
These books got me into reading. Full of geeky charm..
I read this series as a kid with my mom. I purchased an old, used copy online and just read it with my youngest daughter. The first few chapters were a bit boring, but then we got hooked and couldn't put it down. A good, clean mystery.
Alfred Hitchcock approaches the boys with their latest case, endeavouring to help an English boy (August August) to find his inheritance, a jewel called The Fiery Eye. The only clue is a cryptic letter but also on the trail of the jewel is a sinister Indian and a gang of thieves.
This is fast paced, good fun and features Liz Logan, a talkative young girl who desperately wants to be an investigator herself (and who, I now know, is based on Robert Arthur’s daughter Elizabeth).
Very enjoyable, with virtually all of the regular cast in attendance, this is well worth a look.
Forumlaic? Check.Predicatlbe? Check.Kept me reading for hours as a child? Yes.I know these books have been updated a bit, so I hope that hasn't changed the overall flavor of the adventures of Jupiter Jones and his friends. The Three Investigators are kids who are freelance detectives who work out a junkyard. They are so well known a prince from a a fake Eastern European country requests their assistance to see who's plotting his assasination. Didn't every kid dream of such an adventure? I spent many a night with a flashlight in bed reading these books.
I love a good puzzle, and this is a fun one, with Jupiter and pals trying to solve a will in the form of a cryptic poem. They must track down the busts of several famous Greeks and Romans, figure out the angle of sun at the right time of day, and keep one step ahead of the villains trying to keep their client's inheritance away from him.Read it if you can find it!
Alhamdulillah akhirnya bisa merasakan kembali keseruan, berdebar-debar, kening berkerut membaca petualangan trio detektif :Daih kayaknya kalau jadi Liz Logan aku akan melakukan hal yang sama..menawarkan diri untuk bergabung menjadi bagian trio detektif..hehehetapi kalau aku bergabung judulnya bukan trio detektif lagi dong? XDI had fun!
I'm obsessed with this children's series of mystery novels, and this is perhaps the best one of the batch. They have a quaint, dated, innocent quality about them that I quite enjoy. I read this book when I was in about fourth or fifth grade, and now I own one of the original illustrations from it. Go Three Investigators!
This series is a wonderful one for kids. The Hitchcock character only does what amounts to cameos, and sometimes, if I remember correctly, doesn't even show up at all. The ones about the Mexican bandit and the Spider stand out in my mind and I remember them quite well. Overall, they were all fun to read.
Mata Berapi, yakalee awal baca aku kira mata berapi itu nama hantu juga. ternyata malah nama permata. akibat dari rasa penasaraaaan yang dea banget akhirnya aku malah search di google soal batu berharga mata berapi.Ini petualangan yang mendebarkan karena ada semacam psikopat yang bakalan membunuh mereka. dan cara penyembunyian mata berapi bener-bener ellegant
Came across a stack of "The Three Investigators" mysteries at my parents house over the holidays. I burned through these Hardy Boys knock-offs as I kid and had fun reading this one to my son. How can you give less than three stars to a book where the bad guys, without a hint of humor, are called The Black Mustache Gang?
