https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48304.Vegan_Cupcakes_Take_Over_the_World
For days I stared at the lovely, glossy pictures and dreamed, knowing that soon all these cupcakes would be mine.
(Kidding!) So I started off with the "Sexy Low-Fat Vanilla Cupcakes" because mama's got got some booty to work off and, besides, I was saving my caloric intake for RASPBERRY BUTTERCREAM!
I then made a chocolate ganache to go on top of the raspberry buttercream.
Because there's nothing sexier than Sexy Low-Fat Vanilla Cupcakes with VEGAN RAPBERRY BUTTERCREAM FROSTING ANNNNNDD CHOCOLATE GANACHE!!!!Seriously, Isa is my goddess.
It's nice to have a little book with a whole arsenal of vegan cupcake goodness to come home to.
Even my friends who hate veganism can't turn their noses at the killer cupcakes in this book. The peanut buttercream is to die for, and the Tiramisu cupcakes got me laid. Twice. The pineapple "right side up" cupcakes are unique and yummy, and the mint chocolate cupcakes reminded me of Girl Scout cookies. The cupcakes are light and fluffy, unlike many recipes for vegan baked goods which come out like balls of clay.You will not be disappointed. Trust me.
Obviously I've been using the wrong recipes (although a nice dense chocolate chocolate chip cupcake is good now and then).I've made 4 recipes from this book and they've all been phenomenal.
My favorite cupcake so far is the Cookies-n-Cream cupcake.Holy chocolate!Not only are the recipes great, but the book is a sweet little concoction with anecdotes, fun writing, and a smart layout.You can't go wrong with this one.:::::::::::::Update: A few more recipes I've been pleased with are the chai latte cupcakes and the coconut-pecan (german chocolate) frosting.
Most people just don't realize that a cupcake (and other baked goods) don't need eggs, butter, or milk to be good.
This book is amazing and so much fun to read.
All the recipes are vegan, but don't tell the eaters; they'll never know.
Everyone loves these recipes: omnivores, vegetarians, and vegans.
Vegans really appreciate them because most cupcakes call for animal products.
Once the recipes in this book are sampled, it will be obvious that animal products are superfluous!
A really enjoyable cookbook.
My new favorite cookbook.
Have now given it as a gift to 5 people, I'm so sure that everyone will like it!This book, and The Joy of Vegan Baking by Colleen Patrick-Goudreau, are probably the only baking books I'll ever need.
Review:A few years ago I came across this book, an entire book of vegan cupcake recipes.
Unfortunately, I know people who would not try these cupcakes if I told them that they were vegan cupcakes.
They were all shocked to learn that the dessert they were going back for thirds and fourths for were vegan.There is quite the variety of cupcakes recipes in this cookbook.
Plus there are recipes for vegan frosting.
If want to make a batch of vegan cupcakes or just try a new recipe (apple cider cupcakes anyone?), then this book is a great place to start.
This is one of the most amazing and diverse collections of cupcakes -- vegan or non -- in the world.
Isa has really outdone herself, and she's figured out amazing recipes to help mimic the texture and flavor of all those items that tend to get dry and heavy when veganized (e.g. buttercream frosting).
I've found this book has been so great in providing quality dessert options for friends -- it helps accommodate for so many different "restrictive" diets (be it religious, gluten-free, vegan, vegetarian, food allergies) that there's something for someone.
I never run out of recipes, and I'm delighted every time.
I, the sole vegan in an office full of vegan-skeptics, have become the designated office baker because of this book. The mexian hot chocolate cupcakes are amazing, as are the plain chocolate, the pumpkin chip (though the icing for those is weird) and the mint-chocolate, and the vegan buttercream is perfect. All of the recipes are fairly easy and I can manage them on just 2 square feet of counter space! You will need an electric mixer of some kind for some of the frostings (not all though), but even a handheld one will work.
Well if it is a book by vegan cook/author Isa Chandra Moskowitz you can expect to find just that!
I seriously would love it if Isa wrote a novel… Or if she wanted to be my friend (Isa can we be BFFs?).There is just one thing - I don't get the dig on Dick Cheney...does he really think cupcakes are not cute?
Cappuccino cupcakes filled with espresso creme....Seriously though this book leaves no stone unturned… There is even a mention of the Queen of England cat sitting!
I bought this book when I was assigned the task of baking for my lactose-intolerant friend's birthday.
I wanted to make her red velvet cake, her favorite, and needed to find a lactose-free version.
I have to admit that even I, a formerly pretty die-hard vegetarian and very open-minded kind of girl, was pretty skeptical about how good vegan cupcakes would be.
Oh, how wrong I was.These cupcakes are the best cupcakes that anyone I know has ever tasted, and these are people that are decidedly not vegan.
In fact, most of them wouldn't even touch the cupcakes if they'd known they were vegan.
Both cupcake recipes were delicious, and two of the three frostings were *great*.
but I couldn't help but think that there may have been some other subs for all of the soy products and the sugars in the book.
I also cut the sugar amounts in half on the frostings and they were still very sweet and perfect for the recipe.
All in all, it is a great book and one that I will turn to for years to come for quick delicious recipes for myself and for all my friends - vegan or not!
This was one of the first books that helped me on my way to becoming vegan. It showed me how easy it is to make awesome tasty treats, cruelty-free. And since cake is all that really matters to me, these recipes were a joy to try out.It has an amazingly wide variety of flavours for such a small book and I haven't yet made something from it that I didn't like!Just wonderful.Grace
I generally wait to give a rating to a cookbook until I've tried a number of recipes. Yesterday, I made the chocolate mint cupcakes (page 73) and took them to a Christmas party. They were so easy and delicious I'm awarding this five stars. This darling little book has lots of great colour photos, clear instructions and a cupcake recipe for every occasion.
Maybe I shouldn't have told everyone that I just got this book, because I've promised about 100 people I would make them cupcakes. Many of the recipes in this book are easy, and all of them are delicious (or at least delicious-sounding... for those I haven't yet made). I really couldn't believe how moist and fluffy the cake was, and now I'm hooked!
I don't care about my cupcakes being vegan; I care about delicious recipes. Everything I've tried so far has been great. Well-written recipes that have been simple, with correct portions and cooking times. A range of skill level and time investment represented.
Let me start by saying I love cupcakes!
The two recipes I made were the Dulce Sin Leche Cupcakes (I used regular powdered milk instead of soy powdered milk) and the Golden Vanilla Cupcakes with Rich Chocolate Ganache Topping.
Each recipe makes 12 cupcakes.
I decorated the Golden Vanilla’s to look like reindeer which I saw in a FamilyFun magazine http://familyfun.go.com/recipes/rudol...
If you don’t want to get the magazine they have a wonderful website.
I also felt better about letting her eat the cake portion of these cupcakes.
I adore baking, and having (and made) both regular cupcakes, and some of these vegan ones, I have to say that these are some of the best cupcakes I have ever eaten.
Oh, and there's tequila in them too ;) Easily my favorite so far.
I swear, since I've started eating vegan, I've had better tasting food than I ever bothered making before.
These recipes could easily impress anyone, vegan, vegetarian, or omni.
I doubt they'd even know they were vegan unless you told them.
I am so far thoroughly impressed with this book, and can't recommend it enough.
A must for any vegan with a sweettoothThis easy to follow and fun-to-read cookbook is a great choice for any vegan who loves sweets and cupcakes. The recipes are fail-proof and delicious. The book is divided into basic cupcakes, fancy cupcakes, and fillings and frostings. I've made more than half of the recipes of the book and have been happy with the results. Most of the ingredients for the recipes can be found at a regular grocery store, and the final products will fool even your most vegan baked good skeptics.
This book is great for proving that being vegan can be totally delicious--every recipe I've tried from it so far has totally impressed the non-vegans I've fed them to! So far my favorites are the carrot, the cookies'n'cream, and the raspberry buttercream frosting (I made it with coconut cupcakes, which was awesome)--the only problem is that these are so good I just want to make them over and over again and thus haven't tried too many more recipes from the book!
I don't usually bake how this book bakes - For example I would never use vegetable shortening for anything much less to make frosting. And I seem to never have anything I need for the cupcakes in my cupboard leading me down a slippery slope to complete cupcake failure and angst. And I am lazy and don't follow directions and don't like things that involve more than about two steps. But the Margarita Cupcakes make the entire book worth it.
Probably the first cookbook I've ever sat down and read cover to cover. While the book definitely is an entertaining and informative read, often the recipes aren't that practical. If I have to go to 3 different stores and order ingredients online in order to make one batch of cupcakes... It's just not going to happen. Her baking advice is really useful and also witty, but I wish she could have given more readily available ingredient substitutions for each recipe.
I am not even really a fan of cupcakes or cake in general, but this book may make me change my mind. The recipes are fantastic! I've only made about 4 recipes so far, but they were all good. In the future though I'm going to half the icing recipes, because apparently I don't like as much icing as the authors do and I always have so much icing leftover I have to throw some away. Aw, the chocolate cupcakes are so good, one time I ate the batter until I was sick from sugar overload!!
This cookbook is highly recommended for anyone looking to eliminate animal products from their diet without sacrificing tasty treats. So far I've made the basic chocolate, basic vanilla, black forest and peanut butter cupcakes and they were all delicious. Just don't mix them up too much of the center falls. The author explains this in the technique section of the book but it's an error I continue to make.
I love cupcakes because of this book. My friends love me because of this book. I am not a vegan, but I think veganism sometimes gets a bad rap. Seriously, nobody ever knows or suspects these are vegan because they are so awesome. Almost every single recipe I've made has been a huge hit with every crowd.
I have made many many many many cupcakes in my life, but these are fabulous in so many ways! They are delicious, and I'd like to believe they're a healthier alternative...even though I know better! Some of the recipies are a little challenging, but if you've baked before and know your way around an oven, you'll love this book.
Over the years, we've made dozens and dozens of cupcakes from this book. The results are delicious, better than many dairy-full cupcakes. My (definitely not vegan) sister just called to get some recipes from this book. Chocolate cupcakes with mint frosting is my favorite.
holy sweetness....VEGAN CUPCAKES RULE! holly and i have decided to make every single recipe and there have been no letdowns yet...our fave so far is the Mint Chocolate Chip with Mint frosting and ganache...oh my god I want one right now!
If I need a batch of cupcakes, this is the book I grab. I love this book so much, it has become my stand-by gift for my baking friends. Love, love, love this book! Don't worry if you are not a vegan :)
My friend Abby gave this to me for Christmas, and I can't thank her enough. I love these cupcakes! In fact, they are so great that they helped push over into veganism. Huzzah for yummy, cruelty-free cupcakes!
Good recipes! So far I've only tried the chocolate cupcakes with chocolate mousse frosting. They were tasty and easy to make.
I love everything these two authors concoct. They make vegan food taste good and feel right.
