https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131189.The_Witchcraft_of_Salem_Village
I t was fascinating in the eager suspension of disbelief by what hitherto must have been believed to be the sensible adults of Salem village.I am astounded at the willing stupidity of Mather and the judges to believe the silly, vindictive teenagers and little girls.
I can't believe that teenage girls back then in that particular time and place in history didn't have the same attention-seeking, drama queen ways that they appear to in every other.Twenty people were executed, on these judges' willingness to believe the lying girls and not question them singly or jointly in a court setting.
The Witchcraft of Salem Village, Shirley JacksonThe Witchcraft of Salem Village, Describes the social and religious conditions surrounding the Salem witch hunts, the extensive trials and executions, and the aftermath of the hysteria.عنوان: گردونه تاریخ جلد 04 : شکار جادوگران (در دهکد سیلم)؛ نویسنده: شرلی جکسون؛ مترجم: شهرنوش پارسی پور؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، سازمان انتشارات و آموزش انقلاب اسلامی، 1368، 166 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1371؛ فروست: مجموعه گردونه تاریخ 04؛ موضوع: تاریخ سیلم - محاکمه های جادوگران در ایالات متحده - سده 20 منقل از متن: بیماری همه گیر شکار جادوگران، یکی از فصول شرم آور تاریخ آمریکاست.
بیماری همه گیر شکار جادوگران، در ماساچوست، شانزده ماه طول کشید، و سپس، برای همیشه متوقف شد.
His execution may have marked a turning point in the witchcraft epidemic."My first encounter with the Salem Witch Trials was in high school, when we discussed Arthur Miller's The Crucible.
In writing this, Jackson created a great retelling of the story of the Salem Witch Trial and their aftermath."On September 22, 1692, the day of the last execution, the witchcraft delusion began to disappear.
For me this is probably the most intriguing part of Jackson's book (because I was familiar with the story of the trials).How did the persecutors live the survivors and themselves after the events?How did the community heal after this madness?
3.5 Stars What an interesting and educational read where Shirley Jackson examines in detail the horrifying true story of accusations, trials and executions that shook the community of Salem Village to its foundations.
Wonderfully narrated, concise and to the point this was a short read but the author sticks to the facts and we get as much information as possible.
While I am sure there are more in depth explanations and analysis of the Witch trials this short book satisfied my curiousity and was a great audio find.
But a group of children, enchanted by the maid Tituba from the islands, gather round her and she tells the children (a bunch of girls) stories.
So, following their Queen-B, the girls make up a story about witches in the town afflicting pain upon them.It is quite the spectacle.
Even a 5 year old child was brandished a witch, because the child's mother was already accused and in prison for witchcraft.I was utterly shocked that the townsfolk fell for this and sent so many people to jail and eventually their deaths.
There were other places in the world where people were accused of being witches and were hanged.
She ends the book with a theory about the girls who started it all being afflicted by a fungus on a bread, but she doesn't seem to put much weight behind it and neither do I.I think most Americans are familiar with the Puritans and also the witchcraft hysteria that gripped Salem Village in 1692.
The accusation against Calef was immediately withdrawn, and his name was not mentioned again in Salem Village.There is some new information here about how the accusations spread to Andover and how the girls even eventually were brought there to identify witches.
Good, short, straight forward historical account. I learned quit a bit.
I buddy read this with a friend after she mentioned it and I recalled that when I was researching my family's genealogy that my husband's 7th great aunt and uncle were John and Elizabeth Proctor, both arrested in the witch trials, John hung, Elizabeth only spared because she was pregnant and by the time she had her baby the chaos had died out.
It does give the reader a good idea of the trials, how they started, and how they ended up ending.For me, I still find it hard to believe that the adults and the judges in Salem would so easily believe the rantings, accusations, and fits of the young girls who "identified" all those who were witches.
Her older friends too start getting afflicted , and this begins the great witch Hunt which consumed years and many human lives It was a chilling account of a gruesome and unforgettable period of history .My son says that he has visited Salem village and seen the relics of the older witching days, but he wasnt fully aware of the whole lore.
Wish I had accompanied him then, as I would have appreciated the historical site better.The final chapter is a neat little summing up of witchcraft history, and reasons as to why SaLem village was affected, and what made the handful of girls indulge in the accusatory hysteria.
Great primer (or refresher, if you're like me) on the Salem witch hunt and subsequent trials.
Excellent account of the Salem Witch Trials. Shirley Jackson manages to tell the entire story while providing insight into the Puritan mentality that drove these events in just 71 pages! Easily read in one sitting.
we really MIGHT have been apes at this point ..."I've always kinda wandered about the Salem Witchcraft Trials because I've heard them talked about so much, watched "Scooby Doo" episodes about them, etc.
However, I don't believe it was amusing for the residents of Salem Village (or anywhere else where this epidemic reached), so I'd better not talk about that.It was sickening.
You'll see it today; people will do anything to hold the spotlight for as long as possible.But I'm supposed to be reviewing the book, not the years 1692-1693, so let's move on.This was a very concise, easy-to-understand account of the witchcraft of Salem Village (as the title suggests).
This book is a nice short review of the Salem (Village) Witch Trials.
That may be so, but for anyone who does not know anything about the trials, this seems to be a great introduction.It seems interesting that something that (according to the final chapter) had such a huge impact on trials and the general sentiment of the country towards religion is usually underwritten in History Textbooks.
For those interested, this can work as a nice primer (if you can ever find it) but shouldn't be the final historical work read on the subject.
What I can say is that Shirley Jackson gave a rather fair overview of the proceedings, and while speculation was present, it didn't seem to overpower reference to the historical facts.Personally, my first thought upon reading this was that The Crucible suddenly made sense; please don't judge me on that, as I said above, I really didn't know much about the trials beforehand.
My second thought was that the book was unduly hilarious for the simple fact that it's intended for children and is focused on rather weighty subject manner.
as Mitch Hedberg said, "Every book is a children's book if that child can read."Man, I really like Shirley Jackson.
This audiobook was just what I wanted to start a few weeks of creepy, Halloween-themed reading.
The true story of the witch hunts of Salem Village is more horrifying and fascinating than any fiction.
What caused a group of pre-teen girls to accuse their neighbors of witchcraft?
Shirley Jackson's book is a great introduction to those questions and has definitely inspired me to read more about Salem.Gabrielle de Cuir's expressive narration enveloped me in the narrative.
She was especially good at portraying the women accused of being witches - whether they defied the authorities, laughed at the charges or eagerly implicated others.
Jackson would go on to include many aspects of the Salem Witch Trials in her fiction, such as the mob mentality and rural superstition in "The Lottery" or the deviousness of little girls in "We Have Always Lived in the Castle" or the way we can lie to ourselves to believe delusions based on our surroundings in "The Haunting of Hill House".
It is a well written and brief book that will make clear to anyone reading the events and issues surrounding this period of time, but it is by no means a scholarly book and anyone looking for more in-depth explanations into the witch-trials would do better seeking out a more academic history book.

'The Witchcraft of Salem Village' is a children book for grade 6 and upwards written by Shirley Jackson of 'The Lottery' and 'We have always lived in the castle' fame.
The book is interesting, it is written in Shirley Jackson's usual style of writing, very forthright ,very direct and at the same time giving you something to think about.I have said it before and no doubt will say it again but there is something incredibly fierce about Shirley Jackson's writing and I would love to read more of her books but unfortunately not many of them are in print new, so unless a publisher has the ultimate brain~wave and publish Shirley Jackson's back catalogue, I will continue to search for them second hand.
Excellent short history of the Salem Witch Trials by one of America's best (and often under-appreciated) writers.
Jackson brings a non-nonsense approach to her narrative but subtly arranges the material to give it a dramatic arc that keeps you turning the pages.
At the same time, she sticks to the facts and provides a great deal of information in a format that allows for easy absorption and retention- providing detail without getting caught up in minutia.
Her discussion of the motivations and context for the witch hysteria are also excellent.
A really good starting point for anyone interested in this subject, and a good resource for general American history students.
I put this on my "to read" list several years ago upon discovering that the great Shirley Jackson wrote on one of my pet tidbits of history. Only recently did I discover that I read this very same book back in sixth grade! So not only was it my introduction to the witch hunt at Salem, it was my introduction to Shirley Jackson, and not "The Lottery" as I previously thought. But this is a book for school agers. It's not a deep, dark psychological and historical thriller. Too bad.
Well written book about a frightening time. The proceedings reminded me of Trump rallies.
for some reason it took a children's book to really put things into perspective.the salem witch trials is what happens when you let the patients take over the fucking asylum.
or maybe would have been less likely to happen.the whole time i'm reading this i'm screaming in my head "order in the court!!!!!!!" and wishing judge judy were around to make these "afflicted children" shut the fuck up.or at least some judge with some sense.so many people want to go to salem year after year during halloween and see witch museums and spooky stuff and what have you but if we really think about it, these were all just innocent people put to death because of false accusations omg i'm infuriated.
This was a quick accounting of the happenings of the Salem witch trials. I'm am fascinated by this topic and this book presented an easy understanding of what happened during this time. It's so hard to comprehend that a bunch of silly girls had the power to influence judges and condemn innocent people to death based "spectral" evidence.
A quite interesting book about the witch-hunt frenzy that managed to travel all the way to America..The levels of stupidity that someone might reach in the name of religion is unbelievable.
Straightforward and without lots of melodrama in the retelling of the events in Salem Village. Plus, if this was written by the one and only great Shirley Jackson (I’m 99% sure it is), then yippee for Landmark Books on choosing her to share this history with a younger audience.
But it's actually a pretty straight-laced factual account of the witch hunt epidemic, which was still fascinating even though it wasn't sensationalized.
Maybe it was fascinating BECAUSE it wasn't sensationalized...what went on and the stuff that people believed was crazy enough without any embellishment.
He was then PRESSED TO DEATH with heavy stones, which sounds unfathomably awful - but he did get his point across, as more people started doubting the accusations against the so-called witches.
This is a great book - for kids or adults - who want an introductory primer on the Salem witch trials.
A testament to how a few self-serving people can use fear to all-too-easily manipulate the masses and spur unspeakable acts.
Imagine being accused merely because you irritated someone, were in the wrong place at the wrong time, or just to help build the story being spun by a group of adolescents, and imagine the most absurd claims being taken as complete truth so that nothing you might say could adequately defend yourself.
Remembering history hopefully helps us avoid repeating it.
This chilling book tells the worst kind of horror story: true.
Shirley Jackson, with her wry humor and command of the English language, told the history of the Salem Witch Trials as only she could.
Jackson is skilled at spotlighting the everyday evil of the common man.
Frightening and upsetting, this little book shocked me on every page.
This story is on par with the accounts Jim Jones and Kitty Genovese.
Some of the scariest stories, the ones that commentate the clearest on our society and the evil lurking within us all, are found in history books instead of novels.
So this book goes through the factual history of the Salem witch trials in a fashion similar to a true crime book. It was a fascinating read. I have not read anything on this topic in probably 30 years. Though the names and forms of address were familiar to me, the facts had escaped me. This is a book that I would recommend for individuals interested in early American history. Most people would probably remember at least as much as I did about the Salem witch trials, but it was curious to get it from a different point of view.
This is a nonfictional account of the 1692 Salem Village witch trials. I remember learning about the trials but I did not remember that so many people were accused of witchcraft. It is astonishing. Very easy to read and I found it quite interesting. I kept thinking to myself, while I was reading this book, the trials were like an episode of girls behaving badly. I have become a fan of the writings of Shirley Jackson, and I will continue to pick up her books.
