https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15676.Strangers
Something had hold of him, something cold and clammy and strange and alive.Koontz manages to wring some very real chills from his story, but this isn’t a full-blooded Horror novel.
On the other hand, if you’re looking for a good story that just happens to contain some chilling elements and a dash of the paranormal, then Strangers is the book for you.I will say this, though: there is a depiction of a medical procedure that literally had me squirming.The less you know about the premise of Strangers, the better.
The novel is 90% build-up and 10% reveal, so you really don’t want to know too much beforehand.
Changing my rating on this since I remember that it was just awful! And that Koontz' writing is dire. I found that I enjoyed this in the same way that you enjoy a terrible film. It is entertaining because it is so bad. That being said I might pick up a Koontz book again just for the lolz.
Dean Koontz can write a good book, he's written several that rate among my favorites.
Really.For me this book was too long for the story it told.
The disparate characters of the story each struggling with and/or suffering from their different "situations" was a good idea, but he dragged (drug?) it out too long.
By the time I got to the climax I just didn't care any more.I mentioned elsewhere that when I lay a book aside and find myself looking for something to watch amid the drek on TV instead of getting back to the novel it may be time to lay the book aside completely.
Although it's a dense book, it was worth the wait slowly getting to know the characters and having their fears revealed little by little, one by one.
When the strangers convene once again at the Tranquility Inn to get to the bottom of what happened one July night a year before and end their nightmares, the tension and fear of what they saw and heard from the skies is palpable.
The ending is just beautiful and very poignant and I kept wishing that I could have been one of the lucky few to witness the event.
It was his first hardcover bestseller and the first book he wrote without resorting to outlines.Plus it bears a glowing endorsment from Stephen King, who states that it's "The best novel he has written!".The novel is concerned with a group of strangers from all over the USA - a surgeon, a writer, a motel-keeper, a priest and a thief - who are troubled by different phobias - nyctophobia, somnambulism, anxiety.
They have nothing in common - except for one hot summer night at the Tranquility Motel.Strangers is a skilfully woven tale, though it has its flaws.
I've re-read this book several times over the years, and for me it holds up very well. I like books you can sink your teeth into, and really get to know the characters...and this book, longer than average, allows you to do just that.
For me, it's that good, my second favorite Koontz book behind Watchers which was written in 1987, the year after Strangers was published.Dominick Corvaisis, authorGinger Weiss, surgeonErnie Block, U.S.M.C.
I loved watching this band of strangers come together, find strength in each other, press forward to discover the common secret they all share (even though they don't at first know what that secret it) and confront their common enemy.
If all you've read of Koontz is the stuff he's put out the past ten years, and you'd like to get a taste of what he used to write before he fell in love with golden retrievers and Odd Thomas and single-sentence paragraphs, check out Strangers.
A shockingly bad novel from Dean Koontz’s “classic” period, Strangers is a big, dumb, plodding creature overstuffed with banal characters and pointless storylines, all which converge to form a predictable, distinctly Koontzian ending. While Koontz’s novels that focus on a couple of characters are typically fun (albeit brainless) reading, with this the author bit off more than he could chew. Lifeless and insufferable, I could barely make it through what Stephen King once called Dean Koontz’s “finest novel.”
Oh, I know, I grew up and realized that his characters are absolutely ridiculous.
Again, I had read it years ago, but it didn't stick with me, so when I saw it at the used book store I had to pick it up again.
After reading some of the books I've been reading lately - see Bee Season, Bastard Out of Carolina - Koontz just doesn't live up to my tastes anymore.
He doesn't come out and say they are perfect, but he might as well because they have absolutely no flaws or faults.
There's really no meat to Koontz's books.
At various times both the characters of Ginger's father Jacob, through her remembering what he'd taught her, and that of Father Wycazek bring home the message of the book and sum up its theme.
I liked how this book differs from Koontz's more recent writings where everything happening is brought together by the end of the book.
The questions left for me after this reading were now "why did...?" or "how does ...?" but more of a "What If?" It's also a very different book from the more recent dystopian fiction coming out lately.
I enjoyed this book.
There were many unnecessary characters and events which had absolutely no point except to add to the word count.
Thankfully everything wrapped up nicely, but all that momentum built up in the beginning of the novel came to a somewhat unsatisfying climax.
Having said that, I did enjoy most of the characters.
I was genuinely hooked at the start of the novel.
Unfortunately not impressed enough to give it more than three stars at the end.I will defiantly give Koontz another try and look forward to reading more of his work.
This is not one of his best books. It drew you in because you wanted to know what happened to the characters to connect them, but I thought the end was anti-climatic. The actual story of the event that occurred to the characters was sort of boring; an interesting concept, but not told in an interesting way. Even the characters, who were interesting throughout most of the story, seemed to become less so during the main "action" part. He's had better.
Courage, love, friendship,compassion, and empathylift us above the simple beastsand define humanity. -The Book of Counted Sorrows
Koontz is capable of creating a somewhat decent plot, but not the characters or a compelling narrative.
The reader never has to worry about what's gonna happen, because in a Koontz book the good is unfailingly going to triumph.
The main thing is that Koontz is just not an interesting writer, his writing like his characters is consistently flat and by the book.
If you're interested in reading a scary or exciting story, read another book, by another author, there are so many good and great ones out there.
This book was a waste of time and paper.
Neat characters and ideas, but I grew tired of too much “I can’t remember.”The first 80% or more is stories about a handful of unrelated people living in different parts of the U.S. Ginger is a Boston surgeon.
I was soooo tired of hearing characters say “I can’t remember” or “I remember this, but I can’t remember any more” or “What is going on?” For most of the book pieces of someone’s memory come out, but never enough to provide answers.
Finally at the end, we get the full story of what happened to these people.
Koontz is by far my favorite author and it takes me more than usual to read a Koontz book since I love to savor the words on the pages.
I read this one in a little under two weeks and I love it.As usual, Koontz writes an appealing, unique plot about humanity.
To say that this story is very thought provoking is a little mild because Koontz always provides us with the stories that probe at our minds and emotions.Koontz uses an extremely diverse cast of characters to tell this story.Jack- thiefJorja- waitressMarcie-Jorja's daughterBrendan- priestDon-autorGinger-surgeonErnie-ex-marine and hotel ownerFaye-Ernie's wifeNed-restaurant ownerSally-Ned's wifeParker-artistI loved each and every one of them.
Even though this author is known for his suspense thrillers, this novel is more like a mystery book with supernatural aspects.
This was a mystery book that the reader goes along for the ride as the characters discover each piece of the puzzle and they attempt to put all the pieces together.
There is a large cast of characters in this book and the reader should be able to connect with some of them.For the majority of this novel this is not your typical Dean Koontz book.
Koontz is prolific in the extreme (I have to wonder if he has a ghost writer following a template)and his books are just variations on a handful of themes.
There is the usual Koontz sermonizing with his stock characters (though the super intelligent dog is missing) and it plays out as one expects.
I read it during one of my son's football games (it wasn't a good game) and during a couple doctor visits and what not.
Maybe that's why I keep reading Koontz.
His books aren't demanding and can be read with only half of my concentration.
You cannot use the word 'men' to encompass all of humanity; it just doesn't work for those of us who are more liberal-minded and aware.
'He' was the default pronoun used throughout the novel.
While the premise of this novel is not a new topic, I liked the manner in which it was portrayed.
It raised a lot of hope for humanity.
The lead male and female protagonists were likeable.
The other supporting characters were all likeable, too.This was a long book at over 700 pages.
I think that this was one of Koontz's better books, as a whole.
Ok. Strangers is definitely tied with Watchers for My Favorite Koontz Book.
Let me break it down for you.
Sleepwalking.
Telepathic signals.
And then...AND THEN...EXTRATERRESTRIALS!What?YEAH, ALIENS!Are you sure you've got the right author?YEAH, MAN!
KOONTZ THREW SOME SCI-FI SPICE ALL UP IN THAT CASSEROLE!So there's no vicious monster?Nope.There's not a cloud of deadly ectoplasm?Nah, man.
Just an alien species traveling in cryostasis across the galaxy to make contact with other intelligent lifeforms.Wow.I know.
Anyway, unlike the alien twist in Indiana Jones 4 (LAME.), this one worked out spectacularly.
The build-up was top-notch and culminated in the biggest shocker in Koontz history.
Maybe I'm getting soft in my old age, but I seem to be having a hard time summoning the energy to really hate Dean Koontz novels the way I used to.
Also, if you think about the title of the book--Strangers--it's not hard to figure out what the answer to the big mystery at the end is.
That took a lot of suspense out of it for me.So I don't really recommend this book to anyone, though it's no worse than any other Koontz fair, and better than some.
Just not a fan of these basic thrillers. I still have about 20 pages left to read but I just don't care. How sad is that?
This is another great Koontz book.
Whilst this isn’t odd for Koontz there is more than usual in this, especially so that you can understand the strange phenomena which are occurring.
Each of the characters has been given their own unique strange event, leaving your mind running off at all the possible explanations for how these are connected.
Do not let such a thing push you away from the book, however, just keep it in mind whilst reading that you could very well (as I did) invoke a headache through reading masses of it at once.
The big revelation is not a surprise and the ending lacks logic.
Umm...Yep, those atheists.
Dang Ol Atheists.The techniques are good.
And the characters are mostly excellent, real people reacting in a variety of ways to an improbable situation.
It's just that the MESSAGE is so crude and clumsy that it felt like an imposition, like the author was unwilling to play fair.Now, say, Intensity, by the same author, gets much of the same point across--but does so in a way that I personally found enjoyable.
This was just...a two by four of shouting and bad logic.
My second Koontz following the brilliant Phantoms. This was similar in outset ("what happened here/to these people?") and the first half is really thrilling. Somewhere you realize you're actually reading a sci-fi when you thought you grabbed a horror, and then again, it's pretty horrific. The bad news is that the background story (when revealed) does not live entirely up to expectations, and the main gripe is that the book is too long. Other than that, it is a great effort and recommended.
Dean Koontz is one of my favorite authors,and this book is one of the reasons why. Although some of his works are hit or miss this one was very well written. You couldn't help but feel sorry for the characters as they all went through their own various ways of coping with what happened to them all. And not until almost they very end did I figure out exactly what it was that did happen to them. This, along with Lightning, are two of my all time favorite reads.
I thought this was too long. It took an age to get into the guts of the story and it wasn't until the last third that there was any tension. That said, I am judging it based on the excellent Watchers which I thought was one of his best.
A group of people are suffering from terrifying fugues and phobias; strange dreams that draw these strangers together in the Tranquility Motel where they begin to realize they also share a world changing secret.
A very good, if overly long book - you could cut a good two hundred pages from this and not lose the story.
Plus the secret, revealed in the last fifty or so pages, is not exactly a big surprise.
Yet it is well written and enjoyable and quite addictive.
The section on the salt cellar, how on a molecular level things are in constant flux, stuck with me for days.
Dean Koontz, in his infinite writing wisdom, ended the book making it seem as though there'd be a sequel, which of course (and thank every deity I know) there isn't.
Dean Koontz isn't a fan of killing off main characters, as every single one of the "Strangers" survives, and the only other important character is killed on page 630.
Anyways, at the end of this garbage you find out that the Aliens were dead literally the entire fucking time, making all of this, a COMPLETE waste of my time.
Although, thats all in waste because not a single god damn thing was worth picturing.To sum it up, I hate this book.
Unabridged, and read by Dick Hill2.5 Strangers2* Phantoms2* Intensity2* Phantoms1* The Taking4* The Good Guy3* The Door to December3* Tick Tock2* The Darkest Evening of the Year3* Whispers2* By the Light of the Moon3* Mr Murder2* The FaceTR Darkfall3* Icebound3* Winter MoonTR Shadowfires3* The Voice of the NightTR The Vision3* Black River2* Fear Nothing (Moonlight Bay #1)TR Odd ThomasTR Forever OddCR October Skies3* Dark Echo3* Strangers (2.5*)
