https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/752800.Selected_Poems
And therefore in many ways it all makes for an interesting final line, which shows how Donne ends much of his poetry, with two connected and yet contradictory ideas.
Finally finished, with awe. To my everlasting delight, Donne didn't turn into a stiff old forbidding puritan after his conversion. He was every bit as witty, sly, wonderful as he was before. But with greater depth and compassion. That the last poem, at least in this collection, was a play on donne/done/ wrapped around a prayer for forgiveness of sins, was a measure of his skill and devotion and delight in language. Great, great man. And poet.
a lovely poet to spend a lovelt day with.
The Sonnets are by far my favorite poems as they contrast both Petrachan and Ovid- type writing that was popular at the time. Donne shows that without the physical and emotional connection, a relationship cannot work ('whatever dies was not mixed equally.')There are so many other issues that Donne highlights in his poems such as religion, equality and geographical discoveries. To me he is the best poet of his time.
endlessly beautiful
For I am every dead thing In whom love wrought new alchemy.
Pleasantly surprised! Obviously, I wouldn't have read this collection if it wasn't for English Literature A-Level, but I'm glad I was forced to. One hugely important thing studying English has given me is a greater appreciation for poetry. No small feat, considering how I used to despise it at GCSE.
The spiritual poems don't thrill me, but some of the love poems blew my mind. I love his elaborate, unusual, and insightful metaphors (or 'metaphysical conceits'): a suitor as a flee, lovers as compasses, a loving look as two souls leaving their bodies and meeting or merging... Finding formal love poems that aren't trite, hokey, or sentimental was a wonderful surprise.
"When thou hast done, thou hast not done, For I have more."I followed this in print while listening to Frederick Davidson's performance on Audible. I feel as though this man, with his incredible mind, was allowing me to be present while he thought -- and prayed -- aloud.
goode stough
"Song"Go and catch a falling star, Get with child a mandrake root,Tell me where all past years are, 
"Death be not proud" is easily one of my favorite poems. Each carefully chosen word extends hope.
It might have been for a college class I wasn't taking, but seeing it on the shelf at the University Bookstore I was intrigued enough to grab a copy (I did that a lot in college).This particular book includes selections from every style of Donne's work; from Satires, to Letters, to the Elegies, and a collection of his Holy Sonnets.
I feel like it's a good cross-section for anyone interested in his style without wanting to find his whole collected works.Also, I've now read the Holy Sonnet from which P.J. Farmer took the title for the first Riverworld book, To Your Scattered Bodies Go.

I believe that shape on the cover is an epitrochoid -- did Dover get one of the Bernoulli brothers to do this edition's artwork?
Did they begin with a heart, and batter three salients (each part of the tripartite God -- Divine Poem XIV)?
Is that supposed to be the stomach cancer that killed him?Actually, looking close, it's a flower, presumably a reference to "The Blossom" (from Songs and Sonnets).
Well isn't that just jingles.
Hell -- I'd have preferred the epitrochoid, or for that matter any brachistochronic form.
Way to phone that one in, Dover Publications!
I began reading this selection of John Donne's poems but stopped once I realized they had "modernized" the spelling of Donne's poetry. This is a serious problem as it makes it impossible to figure out how Donne intended them to be read. Instead, read The Complete English Poems
I've only been exposed to John Donne before through the play W;t, so I was really excited to find this book in the coffeeshop where I work. To say that these poems, especially in the first part of the collection(Songs and Sonnets) are beautiful would be an understatement. His voice is so playful that it made me smile just to read them. I wasn't as crazy about the section of Divine Poems, but they were still beautiful.
Reading Donne's love poems is like reading the tear-stained journal of a teenager. You can watch him set himself up for failure over and over again. Oh, and the heartbreak is NEVER his fault. I realize this is the sixteenth century, but there were poets who didn't constantly refer to the female gender as cursed, right? Guess I'll go find out . . .
He's such a goodn', and a good selection will get you some representitives of both his pre- and post-conversion stuff. I need to memorize like all of the holy sonnets. So in His purple wrapped, recieve me, Lord,By these His thorns give me His other crown-(Actually a part of A Hymn to God, My God, in My Sickness. Still great)
Donne's poetry is strange and fascinating. There is a rich complexity within the poetry both in his love sonnets and songs and his holy sonnets. I have only read a selection of his work, but they poems I did read show a great level of craftsmanship and intricacy. The Canonization and Death Be Not Proud are my current, personal favorites.
I guess the rating is more a reflection of my thoughts on John Donne than this book. It's ok. I saw another person comment on the spiritual poems. Personally, I don't believe Donne's conversion was a true one, and it can be felt in his religious series. That said, those poems that he wrote to woo are some of the best out there. An absolute must read for anyone who loves poetry or English.
His love poems are good, but like all freaking poets of this era, there are way too many about God. Not that poems about God are inherently bad, but they are all very similar (at least with Christian writers).
Profound, very difficult poetry but there is very little in the English language that demonstrates such virtuosity. He came from a time of verbal virtuosity and one is reminded of Gongora and Marino. In England his rival is not Shakespeare, but Jonson.
John Donne surely doesn't mince words, he's more concerned about getting his message across that waxing unnecessarily eloquent with words at the expense of theme; a lesson many modern poets will do well to learn.
Fun, and more vibrant than I remember Donne being in my 'Intro to the Early Modern Period' class in college. I don't think Donne gets enough credit for the relatively strong emotional content in his work.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/11686900
I personally am a fan of Donne's work and this small book contains his best! Love it!
Loves mysteries in soules doe grow.
Definitely a book to return to over and over. Donne's poems are like beautiful, tightly sprung puzzles.
Your most outrageously emo poetry has nothing on this guy.
