https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368772.The_Caine_Mutiny
It is conceivable that most unusual and extraordinary circumstances may arise in which the relief from duty of a commanding officer by a subordinate becomes necessary, either by placing him under arrest or on the sick list; but such action shall never be taken without the approval of the Navy Department or other appropriate higher authority, except when reference to such higher authority is undoubtedly impracticable because of the delay involved or for other clearly obvious reason...   Herman Wo
Wouk superimposes that event on the character Tom Keefer, the man who spends more time writing than he does worrying about the rules and regs imposed by the captain.
If anyone has a post World War Two book that you feel I should definitely read please do not be shy.
He imposes stricter guidelines which at first is a relief to Keith, but when he gets on the wrong side of Queeg his opinion of the man changes very quickly.
Without the war I'm not sure that Willie Keith would have ever become a man worth occupying space on the planet.
Update: February 16, 2017 - Watched the movie with Bogey playing the part of crazy Captain Queeg, and found it to be very similar to the book except for Willie Keith's girlfriend May who has a much more complicated personality in the novel making for a much more interesting ending.
“Son, we live in a world that has walls, and those walls have to be guarded by men with guns. Who’s gonna do it? You?...I have a greater responsibility than you can possibly fathom. You weep for Santiago and you curse the Marines. You have that luxury. You have the luxury of not knowing what I know – that Santiago’s death, while tragic, probably saved lives. And my existence, while grotesque and incomprehensible to you, saves lives.”- Jack Nicholson as Colonel Nathan Jessep, in A Few Good Men“Se
[Commander Queeg], for dough, was standing guard on this fat dumb and happy country of ours.”-	Barney Greenwald in Herman Wouk’s The Caine MutinyThe Caine Mutiny is a turducken of a book.
The officers aboard the Caine, especially the resident novelist, Lt. Keefer (something of a stand-in for Wouk), think him mad.
Wouk served on a destroyer-minesweeper during World War II, and his evocation of the experience is almost tactile.
The Winds of War books, appearing more than 20 years from The Caine Mutiny, are equally brilliant.
The man was a prodigy.The Caine Mutiny, happens on an old rustbucket of a tow ship called the Caine.
Thoughout the book, Wouk teases us, making us hungry for the moment when the crew of the ship blows its collective gasket.
It was long in coming, but when it did, the courtroom scenes didn't disappoint.The book revolves around Willie Kieth, who is the only character whose private life is shown.
I had a lot of fun reading this book.
My favorite Pulitzer Prize winning fiction novel. Why?? It is set in World War II and it just tells a story, no deep intellectual meaning, no homosexual subtext, no infidelity, no sex, no profanity for profanity's sake, etc. etc. Just a good story and in the end you don't know who you want to "root" for.
Top Ten Reasons to Give The Caine Mutiny a Chance10.
Wouk's clear, compelling, Pulitzer Prize winning prose.9.
The boredom of military service, even in wartime, has never been so interesting.8.
The USS Caine DMS feels like home -- no matter who's in command.
7. The ineluctable build of Queeg's collapse.6.
Willie's slow and certain becoming.5.
Keefer's behaviour insuring that no side is "right."4.
The best novelized military trial ever written.3.
The complexity of Wouk's characters, even when they only appear in a small portion of the book.2.
The painfully true love affair of Willie and May1.
Marbles, strawberries, and yellow stains.
The characters are the crew-- but each man goes by their rank, and they change rank, their first name, their last name and their nicknames.
The book is very much a character study.
The names, the jargon, the cramped quarters and life stuck on just one boat are not problems because the characters and their milieu become so real.
At the same time, each character retains that which makes them unique.
I leave the book feeling that each character is drawn consistently.
It is of course making a statement about the military.Kevin Pariseau reads the audiobook absolutely wonderfully.
In many ways this is a difficult book, at least to categorize and/or rate.
I suppose most will know at least the outline of the story here as it's not only a novel, but a play and a movie.
It's a story of men in war, but not just WWII.
The book is quite likely better than my 3 star rating may suggest, however I did find my mind wandering (especially when we were with a certain young ne'er-do-well trying to get his love life straight).
The class warfare here has some interesting implications and bears greatly on the book's climax and conclusion.
Classics Cleanup Challenge #4Willie Keith=Richard Cheese
Herman Wouk is a master storyteller.
I read his works The Winds of War and War and Remembrance in the first few months after their release and they have consistently stayed on my favorite books ever read list.
But for some reason I hadn't read anything else by him.
I think perhaps I was afraid that they wouldn't live up to the standard.
But this book is brilliant.
The characters are rich, flawed, unique and real.
The plot is well-paced, finely written.
Wouk's ability to tell the story of war is so good.
The book has its flaws: there is some extraneous material in the first half that could have been cut down, there are a few instances of an awkward secondary character point of view, and there is a generous sprinkling of those pesky adverbs that everyone seems to equate with literary leprosy these days.
Although Willie Keith, who provides the lens through which we see most of the story, matures into a respectable character that can understand Queeg better in hindsight, his ultimate conclusion about the captain and the mutiny don't seem to square with how the events were actually portrayed.
This is my favorite read so far this year. Its got everything . Sea story, war story, love story and court room drama. The movie leaves out so much. This is one of the great novels to come out of world war 2 and a worthy winner of the Pulitzer Prize. I could kick myself for not reading this sooner in my life.
The film and the book both have the sucker-punch involving involving the speech by the lawyer Greenwald after most of the book deals with the crew and the infamous Captain Queeg.The novel though has a different narrative through the eyes of "Willie" Keith.
Queeg's eccentricities and the crews reactions to him are a major part of the book and as a reader you get so frustrated with the Captain's actions.One thing that is much more evident in the novel over the movie is Lieutenant Thomas Keefer role in the events and his true character.
I grew a little impatient in the beginning, but my journey with Willy Keith, the spoiled, soft, Princeton boy really took hold of me and immersed me into the story as I saw him make his way through the ranks of officers aboard the USS Caine.
This was one of those stories where I found myself so angry and dumbfounded, mostly at the skipper of the Caine, Captain Queeg, that I never wanted to quit listening.
The scenes involving Queeg and his crew, the turmoil during a typhoon which led to the mutiny, and the ensuing court martial was one of the most enthralling pieces I've read in a while.
An all time favorite book of mine anyway, The Caine Mutiny holds even more personal significance for me because I saw the play performed in London over twenty years ago when I was still dating my husband.
Although sometimes maligned for not being reliable, in this case Bear and I can attest to the reliability of at least that much of the article.* The Caine Mutiny is a fascinating look at our humble human attempts at justice.
Eventually her very kind date and fiancé leaned over and discreetly whispered in her ear that if she didn't stop making so much racket Charlton was going to turn around and glare at her!
This is a classic and it won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1952.
I picked this up in an Audible sale only because it was highly rated on GR.
I wasn't sure if I'd like it, but I trusted the ratings and I'm glad I did.
I ended up enjoying this one for so many reasons.
But the one thing that I appreciated the most, is that this wasn't just a book written by guy in the Navy.
He not only used his experiences and lessons learned while in the Navy, but he put them into a well written story.
That's sort of a moment in time where the character's fates intertwine, otherwise it's a story about what it's like to be on a ship in the Navy in war time.The book starts out with young, naïve, slight spoiled Willie Keith getting drafted into the Army during WWII.
He comes out of training an Ensign, which was the moment when I realized he couldn't possibly be leading the damn mutiny, so why was he the main character?
After we're pretty firmly comfortable with Willie's character, he starts showing us interactions that are happening between other people on board.
Anyone who has not read that book should -- if for no other reason than to marvel at the author's skill.
Author Herman Wouk also makes a spectacular show of the same skill in his depiction of the disturbed Philip Queeg, Captain of the U.S.S. Caine, in his Pulitzer prize winning novel The Caine Mutiny.A few years ago I caught a portion of the old movie of the same name on TV.
It starred Humphrey Bogart as Capt.
Queeg's lines in the voice of Humphrey Bogart.
The best part of the this book is the court martial of the "mutineers" near the end.
A few days ago Trump's behavior led me to start thinking about The Caine Mutiny, instead, say, of 1984 and other dystopian novels (or Mein Kampf).
I read the book as a teenager.
Tonight I watched the movie.
The movie doesn't have a tenth of all the detail, but reading some friends' reviews helped.
Trump would never do that weaselly asking-for-help bit, and the A Few Good Men bit at the end doesn't apply either.
(Nor, for the record, did I buy it in the movie tonight.) Trump, in contrast to the fictional Queeg, is doing a creepy will-to-power thing.
This is why I began my Pulitzer Prize reading challenge - to read books that impact me on every conceivable level, in a good way!
Last night, after I finished reading the chapter titled 'The Mutiny,' I closed my book, rolled over, and began to pray out of anguish.
Greenwald tells the men who committed the mutiny were guilty, then insults the biggest coward of them all (yes, the biggest coward was Tom Keefer, the man who hid behind words, books, and manipulated others into committing mutiny so his own hands could remain clean.
I put off reviewing this book for way too long because I wanted to do it justice.
At first blush, it doesn't seem like my kind of book.
It actually seems like that rare creature: literature a man would enjoy.
I didn't want to put it down.But what really took it from a four-star to a five-star book was the ending.
The conclusion of this book was just astounding, and I felt like I had almost experienced the events of the mutiny and the trial first-hand, so deeply did the lesson sink in.
Wouk also wrote the Broadway Play of The Caine Mutiny.Article 184It is conceivable that most unusual and extraordinary circumstances may arise in which the relief from duty of a commanding officer by a subordinate becomes necessary, either by placing him under arrest or on the sick list; but such action shall never be taken without the approval of the Navy Department or other appropriate higher authority, except when reference to such higher authority is undoubtedly impracticable because of the delay involved or for other clearly obvious reason...
The 1955 movie is an excellent adaptation of Herman Wouk's novel and Humphrey Bogart is wonderful as Queeg.
One of the last scenes of the book tells of this destroyer being hit, almost head on, by a Japanese suicide plane.
This same scene was a reality for my grandfather serving on board the  USS Abner Read  on November 1, 1944.
Since then I’ve grown to realize how serious and traumatic these events must have been for my grandfather and The Caine Mutiny served, in a small way, to bring some semblance of life to these realizations.This is truly a three-star book under ordinary circumstances, but this book meant a lot to me while reading it.
Willie as a young midshipman finds himself posted to the U.S.S. Caine a ship captained by a mediocrity who has risen to his command due to the rapid turnover of commanding offices that always occurs during wars.
Willie has seen first hand the dangers of stepping out of line in a society that is determined to enforce its rules.The Caine Mutiny is a book that does a fabulous job of showing how Americans saw themselves and their society between the end of WWII in 1945 and their decision to enter the ground war in Viet Nam in 1965.
Herman Wouk’s writing is so vividly detailed it’s like turning the pages of a photo album rather than pages of words.
Using words Wouk paints us a picture of an island battle.
Where you can hear the sounds of battle and see men fighting and dying.
Wouk keeps this level of detail and description going page after page from the beginning to the end.This book rightly deserves every award and accolade it’s ever received by both literary experts and the general reader.
As for this reader I think it’s brilliant.
I came to The Caine Mutiny through my love of seafaring tales and having read Herman Wouk's Don't Stop the Carnival (one of my favorite titles) a long time ago.
The dilemma is so much more dramatic than is easily imagined in 2017, until you're in the thick of this book.The writing is just great, starting with this prefatory note "The story begins with Willie Keith because the event turned on his personality as the massive door of a vault turns on a small jewel bearing."Wouk could write this book because he served on Navy ships in World War II.
Still, it would be two years before I picked it up to read.The Caine Mutiny follows Willie Keith’s transformation from spoiled rich kid, almost kicked out of naval training, to competent naval leader during World War II.
(My words—not Herman Wouk’s.) Several characters throughout the book, specifically the highly intellectual Lieutenant Thomas Keefer, work to convince the Caine's executive officer, Lieutenant Stephen Maryk that Queeg is mentally ill which ultimately leads to the mutiny during a typhoon by Maryk and Keith.
The best part after finishing—I’m still not sure if Queeg is crazy or just an incompetent chickenshit.
Something about an author who knows how to tell a story, and not just write one.
The story is a masterpiece, pure and simple.
According to the book blurb: "...Herman Wouk's boldly dramatic, brilliantly entertaining novel of life-and mutiny-on a Navy warship in the Pacific theater..."To me, it really is the story of our main character's brief stint in the Navy, his complicated relationships with his parents and girl back home; and the embattled relationships with those he serves with and serves under, in the Navy.
Mr Wouk has created 3-dimensional characters that are fully-fleshed out and viable.
I highly recommend this novel.
It is simply a masterpiece.

This is one of those books in which you, yourself, live for as long as it takes to read the whole book. Wouk's forthright manner is detailed, but not verbose. His sense of humor is subtle and wry. There is a believable balance of the mental and the emotional in the narrative and the story feels complete when the book ends.
