https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33489.Call_of_Cthulhu
In fact, I recommend any game master of any roleplaying game to read Chapter 10: "Playing the Game".
I will be applying many of those lessons for years to come, and I am a game master with nearly 40 years of experience on the table.The book's presentation is exceptional.
You need not have a great grasp on the mechanics to appreciate Call of Cthulhu 7th edition Keeper Rulebook as a sourcebook.
I can attest from numerous Call of Cthulhu 7e sessions at Gameholecon and Garycon that the rules do, indeed, work very well (except for the chase rules, which I still need to play myself to understand).
This is an older edition of the Call of Cthulhu roleplaying game. Third edition, that is.For people like myself who are playing 7th edition this is a great historical overview as to how the game came to be over the many decades. For myself, some of the old maps and scenarios may prove usefulThe CoC RPG is easily in my top three overall RPGs! OVERALL GRADE: B plus to A minus.
um why aren't you rpging this right now
While I was aware of the existence of horror roleplaying games as a young teen - a friend had a copy of Chill, and another friend had a copy of Beyond the Supernatural - Call of Cthulhu served as my most memorable introduction to horror roleplay, as well as my introduction to Lovecraft's work.
Each successive edition has shown a marked improvement in this area.While Lovecraft may not be for everyone - I myself can only digest a few of his stories at a time before they begin to blend together - Call of Cthulhu is one of the best horror games on the market as well as one of the oldest.
The best roleplaying game of all time to me.
It is probably the only rpg (along with Dying Earth) where I know the rules by heart and do not have to consistently look up reading material.The percentage system is sublime, but most importantly, unlike most other games, leveling up usually doesnt even come close to half of the physical and psychological damage your PC took in any game.
Far from it, playing the inevitable decline, madness, and death of a person who just had to investigate that which never should have been investigated is an amazing experience.
There is no other tabletop rpg like this one.
If you play only one, make it this one.
Sandy Petersen and Chaosium's Call of Cthulhu Roleplaying game is one of the longest running, most enduring, and most influential RPGS of all time. Over the different editions, I believe it has been translated into more than a dozen languages. The game system is simple, but does an excellent job of evoking the otherworldly horrors and insanity-inducing encounters of Lovecrafts work. It is an important work in the RPG industry.
I remember playing this a few times during my UCLA days with a group of fellow RPG enthusiasts (this was the era of 2nd Edition AD&D). The one thing I remember about the game was that the longer one's character dealt with the Elder Gods et al. the greater the chances that one would go insane.
Rollspelsregler.Ska spela med min lilla rollspelsgrupp, kommer att vara första gången som jag agerar spelledare. Sjukt taggad!
Great Game.
This was my first foray into the dark realms Lovecraft's world. Yeessssssssssssssss!
Credit to Chaosium Inc. for creating such a straight-forward, useful rulebook for Call Of Cthulhu.
Chapter Ten, "Playing The Game," was particularly helpful in refreshing my memory as to how RPGs ought to be run.
Am looking forward to running my first scenario!
That, and the whole structure of chase sequences is particularly unwieldy as written -- I've read the chase rules twice now and still don't quite understand how to operate them.That said, the quality of the writing trumps the editorial sloppiness and the art, charts, tables, and scenarios included are all excellent!
This is a great update to an already beautiful system and only helps to streamline your inevitable descent into madness. There's more atmosphere, more horrific goodness, and fewer hurdles to slow you down.The distillation of more stats and mechanics to run on percentages simplifies some of the bean-counting. The Keeper's guide has lots of great resources for new and experienced GMs and the Player's Handbook is brimming with Lovecraft stories, lore, and metric tons of 1920's history to lend any amount of authenticity you may want in your adventures.
So you have a roleplaying game by Chaosim set in Lovecraft's mythos, where you can, if your really unlucky, meet Cthulhu, and then be devoured shortly thereafter.
But the game also has several adventurs published meant as a one-off.
I remember those adventures with fondness myself, good ones ranging from zombie apocalypse horror stories to battling Nazi aliens.
But the source work for the Call of Cthulhu book is something else entirly.
It has some of the best source material published that i have seen, as well as some of the more iconic adventures.
Like Horror on The Orient Express.
The classic horror roleplaying game, in the bizarre horror setting of HP Lovecraft and his contemporaries (in which the earth is inhabited by aliens that madmen collude with, including ancient god like aliens around whom cults have formed). I'm owned various editions, and have just picked up the 7th, so I'm still getting to grips with it. It's a great game but the quality of the game often depends on the quality of the scenario played with, and often how disbelief the players can suspend in confronting cosmic horror.
Este libro de ROL es complejo y sencillo al mismo tiempo, planear una historia debe ser la ostia, pero lo voy a intentar con todos los detalles, que son increíblemente intensos y complejos. Un jugo donde la acción consiste en dar un inmenso rodeo para afrontar la realidad y conseguir superarla con el poder de la información, mucho más directa que la acción.Este fetiche sacado de la biblioteca debe ser mio, mio, mio, mio...
If you are a fan of Lovecraft, and like to play role-playing games, this is a must for your collection. I had the opportunity to read this for a review for Utah Geek Magazine, later posting the review on my own blog, guildmastergaming@blogspot.com. Those in my group that joined me in playing through same Call of Cthulhu really enjoyed the setting and the build. This is not a hack and slash game, but one of thinking.
Probably my favorite RPG of all time. The roleplaying is way more important than number crunching, leveling, and min-maxing. It's very difficult not to have good stories with this game, but it's also sometimes very difficult to find a good group to play with. If you're a gamer and you haven't tried this game, you should, especially if you consider yourself mroe of a role-player than a gamer.
I have these versions of the rules:1st edition (box), 2nd printing3rd edition (box)3rd edition (UK hardcover)4th edition5th edition5.6.1 (hardcover)5.6.Corrected (20th Anniversary Edition)6th edition (30th Anniversary 2011 Edition)
Simply one of the best BRPs out there. Get a group of 4-6 and you're set to go. This is a must-try for all RPers, we still run sessions (6th Edition) from time to time so contact me if you are interested.
the forefather of dark fantasy and the born of Lovecraft horror genre,even throughout the book we don t get any kind of ultimate chilling feeling,the mysterious of the story still managed to pull us into a deform,monstrous underground world that Lovecraft has borne
Still one of the best RPGs of all time. The scenarios written for this game were of such high quality, they pushed gaming into new directions: The Masks of Nyarlathotep is rightly regarded as probably the best one ever written in any game setting.
Okay. This is certainly not for everyone. But if you're the type who enjoys role playing, you should give this a go. You'll have to roll an idea check after reading, because this corebook an *insanely* good time!
I always enjoyed the subject matter, so trying the game was a natural leap. Sat in on a session of Call of Cthulhu at a gaming con back in 94 and it was not only very imaginative, but the game mechanics were much more fluid than others I had played up to that point. It's certainly worth a look.
Only RPG system I knew was D&D. This system is way better than that. Realism is at it's best while keeping easy game play.
One of the best RPG's out there...bar none.
RPG tabletop core rulebook.
Great RPG, played for years.
Classic horror gaming at its finest.
The writing itself, I found to be a bit dry at times and it is hard to understand the rules of the game in comparison to other RPG products.
As a result, I read the book quite slowly compared to other RPG products.I have not played the game and this is obviously the acid test for any RPG.
I would note that it does feel a bit old fashioned and a lot of the rules are unnecessarily complex.
It does not care, at all, about game balance, but is instead concentrated on narrative creation, which in my opinion is what an RPG should be all about.
