https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32523.Hide
I want to be friends with Lisa Gardner in the real world, I want to know what’s it’s like to be such a storyteller, it would loooove to know what makes her tick!
This is another page turning machine, I’ve read that this is a few of my friend’s favourite Lisa Gardner book, and I can see why.
Here we meet the really lovely Annabelle (or is she?) who has spent her entire life on the run, taught by her expert father, to be always ready to leave, life's contents in a handful of bags.
Bobby Dodge is now working with the Massachusetts State Police after he killed a man in the last story, and is still dealing with all his malemotions (Trademarked 2016 by Me) because of it, when D.D. calls him from a crime scene at an abandoned mental hospital.
On the run with her parents since she was seven - a new town and new names every year due to her father's paranoid insistence that her life was in danger - Annabelle is listed as one of the dead children found on the mental hospital's grounds.
The only problem is Annabelle is only dead on the inside (just like me.
Do I start with Annabelle, the girl whose necklace is around the neck of one of the unfortunate victims?
Bobby Dodge, still reeling from his last case as a Boston police sniper, is now a detective with the Massachusetts State Police.
Has his worst nightmare returned?Annabelle Granger sees her name in the paper as one of the victims, and she knows she must go to the police.
The strangest thing was that she didn’t even know what they were running from.
Bobby, as we learned in the first book, Alone, is susceptible to vulnerable, beautiful women who just happen to be central figures in his cases.
I really enjoy D.D. Warren books and this is the best one in the series.
I would recommend reading the previous D.D Warren book before this one, it's named "Alone".
The stories are tangentially connected and reading Alone first will add depth and dimension to this book.
Once again Warren and Dodge work together and since they bring out the best and worst in each other, the ride is extra fun.
So well worth the time to read, definitely a "Hit it out of the park" kind of book, don't miss this one!
Read: November 2017Rating: 4.5/5 starsThe second novel in the Detective DD Warren series brings us back into the world of Bobby Dodge.
I read this book quicker than the previous instalment; it was more compelling and it helped that Annabelle was a much nicer and more interesting character than Catherine.I am enjoying this series, and looking forward to the next book The Neighbour which I did read as a standalone around seven years ago.
I don't remember much about the plot but I'm sure I will enjoy reading it again.
See what happens when this Dee Dee wears heels while taking down a suspect/perp:You lose your high-heeled shoe and your partner ends up giving it back to you.Of course, he could end up keeping and wearing it like these Canadian cops:Hard for me to concentrate on a book after it does that to me.
In the end, DD did exactly that by bringing out a locket and asking Annabelle about it.Perhaps one day, after I've forgiven and forgotten what Ms Gardner did to DD, I might relisten to this and end up with a 5-star book.
He simply taught her how not to trust anyone, how to fight back, and how to run and hide if she couldn’t fight.She continued to run and hide, long after both her parents were dead, until one day, at age 22, when she saw a news story about the discovery of six bodies discovered on the grounds of an abandoned mental hospital outside Boston.
The details of the news story were vague, but instinctually Annabelle knew that bodies were all of young girls, and she knew one of them was her best friend.
This is the second book in the Detective D.D. Warren series, and it is also the second time that I have read this author.Detective Bobby Dodge is back!
Is this the work of the same man who kidnapped Catherine?I like this book even more than the first in the series!
It is getting better!!I like Bobby Dodge, but it seems like he can't help himself but get involved with each of women in these books!!Gardner threw in lots of twists and red herrings that kept me guessing right up until the end.
A continuation of ALONE, the first of the D.D.Warren series. I found HIDE also kept my attention from start to finish! Looking forward to the next book in this series.
As with the first book in the series, Alone, Bobby Dodge has a more prominent role than D.D. Warren but at least in this story she does make more than a handful of appearances.Annabelle Granger has spent almost her entire life on the run, moving from city to city, hiding.
For Annabelle the solving of the six murder victims may explain why her father kept moving the family and changing their identities.
I enjoyed this story much more than the first book and I have already put a hold request in at my library for The Neighbor, the third book in the series.
Short Review for now: I give this book a HIGH RECOMMEND!
Hide by Lisa Gardner is Mystery/Suspense book that has one of the most fascinating set-ups I could imagine.
Twists and turns all over the place.
There are two story lines: one of a survivor who must piece together her true identity, and the mystery of solving the heinous murder of 6 girls.
And a hottie detective that all the ladies like;) Tana French is my favorite suspense/crime writer.
Faithful Place is one of my favorites ever.
(unbelievably good narrator) however, Hide proved to me that Lisa Gardner is up there with the best of them, even Ms. French.
What really sticks out to me with this novel was the ill-planned reveal of the criminal's identity.I was ready to go along with the switches from first to third person, because while I usually find it annoying, I get that some authors find it a useful plot device, but in this case it just felt lazy, like Gardner had already written the first person sections and was too lazy to change them when she realized she wasn't able to keep her entire book in first person.
Instead of the logical explanation, we get two convoluted ones.Basically, the ending felt like Gardner was trying too hard to be clever about who did it.
HIDE (Suspense-Bobby Dodge-Boston-Cont) – VGGardner, Lisa – StandaloneBantam, 2007, US Hardcover- ISBN: 9780553804324First Sentence: My father explained it to me the first time when I was seven years old.*** Massachusetts state police detective Bobby Dodge is called to a Boston PD crime scene.
Since she was seven years old, Annabelle’s father has moved their family from place to place, always taking new identities but with Annabelle never knowing why.
When she reads the story in the news, she realizes the locket was hers and one of the bodies was the best friend she’s given it to.*** Lisa Gardner is an author who deserves much more notice than she receives.
I can't afford to come back from the dead...'Annabelle Granger has spent her life on the run.
She finds out she is believed to have been found dead at an abandoned mental institute site along with five other girls one of the girls found with a locket with her name on it.Detective D.D. Warren and new to the detective scene Bobby Dodge must try and find out who killed the six young girls.
It becomes clear that the girl found with the locket was Annabelle's only friend growing up Dori Petracceli.
It also becomes clear that the key to finding the killer is Anabelle herself.
In this, her second of the DD Warren series, we follow a young girl who is continually on the run with her parents, from one town to the next, one state to the next, never staying long, always scared, always trying to stay one step ahead of......what..
she doesn’t know!Annabelle Granger is now 30 years old, and back living in Boston, when she opens the newspaper one morning to find she has been declared dead!
And oh my god, why must the stupid main cop always develop a romantic interest in the "victim?!" (Except they never exactly are victims, but clearly they are supposed to fill that role.) To even call it a "romantic interest" is stretching things, since one moment there's nothing, and the next moment they are kissing, and then there are constant allusions later to their supposed chemistry that is never actually apparent...or noticeable at all.Ugh, I think I have finally gotten over my desire to read only crappy novels.
Or at least I have no further interest in crappy novels by this particular author.
Unfortunately, Lisa Gardner does that same thing in her following books.
So yes those are not as good in my opinion.This book is all about unraveling a mystery - and I absolutely enjoyed the enigma that involves Annabelle’s family.
What I also enjoyed is that we see Bobby Dodge return, this time as a State Police detective.
Their coming together was a bit more subtle and promising.Over the next books, we get little snippets about how Annabelle and Bobby are doing.
I hope Lisa Gardner will consider a story where Bobby Dodge takes on a more prominent role again.
A truly scary book.
This isn't a horror genre per se, it's disturbing because all the horror in it is man made.
Man is horror.
I didn't know it was a part of a series.
I thought this was a stand alone book.
Without having a single ghost or ghoul in it, it is scary.
And now it's about monsters and oval shaped offices.
Things being bent out of shape.
Sometimes not even real.
In real life evil doesn't know it is evil.
That's for history to decide.
What to do when villains won't confine themselves to History and remain there.
wederom een prachtig geschreven verhaal. Boeiend van het begin tot het einde. Lisa Garner laat u weer op het topje van uw stoel genieten van een enorm spannend boek, met een climax in het verhaal om u tegen te zeggen. In één woord "schitterend". Een zeer fantastisch en verrassend einde !Bedankt ...ik heb er enorm van genoten :-)
This was one of those books that hooked me from page one. The first chapter introduced such an interesting character and premise, I couldn't flip the pages fast enough to find out more. And as the book went on, it became more complicated, twisty, and one giant puzzle. Just when I thought I had some ideas, something else would throw a wrench in my theory. This is everything I love about reading mystery and suspense.
I'm starting to figure out that these don't have to be read in order. And, just because it says "Tessa Leoni no. 3" or "DD Warren no. 5" doesn't mean those characters are actually main characters. They might make a cameo... maybe. This one actually had more of DD than others I've read, and I appreciated getting to know more about her. It made me want to pick up another in this series. She kinda kicks ass!
Um bom thrilher, um verdadeiro quebra-cabeça, gostei!
https://elleisforliterature.blogspot....I listened to the audio version and it kept me on the edge of my seat. After Alone, I understood a lot of these characters and also enjoyed the new characters of Annabelle and her dog Bella. I will definitely be reading more in this addictive series.
This is the first book I have read by Lisa Gardner and she has definitely gone to the top of my favourite Author list.
Massachusetts State Detective Bobby Dodge is forced to team up with an old partner, Boston Detective D.D Warren who worked on the old case, their only clue is a locket with the inscription Annabelle Granger, which is attached to one of the mummified corpses.
The case becomes more complex when a woman walks into the police department claiming she is Annabelle Granger and has been hiding for most of her life.
Unbelievable.Never believe anything Lisa Gardner tells you. You may think she is being straight with you but, take my word for it, she is not to be trusted. She will change her story. Hide is the second book of hers that I have read and the second time she has mislead me repeatedly. If I didn’t know better, I’d say she is an unrepentant suspense mystery writer!She is so unbelievable, that she gets five stars from me for Hide and I am immediately going to start reading the third book in the series, The Neighbor.
Encore un excellent Lisa Gardner qui n’a pas son pareil pour créer un suspense du diable, une ambiance angoissante et des scènes parfois effrayantes ! 6 cadavres de petites filles découverts dans un tunnel sous un ancien Hôpital psychiatrique .. Le décor est planté … petit bémol pour la fin à laquelle il manque quelque chose je trouve ... 17/20http://www.ilestbiencelivre.com/1681/...
My copy of this book can be found in this anthology:
What a Fast 2 book Series!!! Definitely had to read them back to back, because of the Characters and the Storyline. Great Author...
From the moment I opened the first page and read the first sentence – “My father explained it to me the first time when I was seven years old” – I knew that I was going to be totally engrossed and captivated by Annabelle Granger’s story.The idea of a family being on the run for over 25 years and the unexpected death of Annabelle’s father before the secrets are revealed is very smart and ingenious.
State Homicide Detective Bobby Dodge try to identify their six victims and puzzle out the possible connection to an earlier case, also involving a kidnapped young girl held captive in an underground chamber, Tanya/Annabelle tries to figure out who her father realy was, and why he kept them on the move, changing names and cities every couple of years.
Was her father the loving, protective parent she remembers, or was he someone else, someone much scarier?This is a very tightly plotted mystery, keeping the reader guessing all the way, sharing Annabelle's confusion and bewilderment, and the frustration of Bobby Dodge and D.D. Warren as they attempt to find the killer.
