https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/529241.The_Snow_Goose
Από την κατηγορία με τα διδακτικά παραμύθια - ιστορίες που μπορεί να διαβαστεί από ένα παιδάκι 10 ετών μέχρι και 100!!! Λατρεύω αυτού του είδους τα βιβλία....με συγκινούν πολύ...
Lyrical and touching tale set in WWII, with the climax taking place during Dunkirk.
While there's a danger here of crossing over into sentimentality, for me this lovely tale transformed what could have been pat sentiments into something very heartfelt and noble.
It's the kind of tale children will remember and adults will cherish.
The fact that this was published in April 1941, at a time of massive German air raids on London and other British cities, adds another layer of poignancy to the tale.
The Dunkirk evacuation had been just the previous year.
Then World War 2 begins and their small idyllic existence is forever lost.I’m really puzzled as to who the audience for The Snow Goose is.It looks like a kid’s book – at 40ish pages, it’s a short story, and it’s fully illustrated – so it might be aimed at kids 10 or under.
But then a large part of the story centres around the Dunkirk evacuation from WW2 and unrequited love – military history and complex adult emotions aren’t really things I’d say pre-pubescent junior school kids would have any knowledge of.Unless it’s not aimed at kids and it’s supposed to be for teenagers and older?
From BBC Radio 4 - Classical Serial - Neglected Classics:A wounded bird brings together a disfigured artist and a young girl and helps in a courageous act of bravery in World War II.Philip Rhayader .....
Sally AvensSteven Mackintosh stars in Paul Gallico's prize winning novella in our celebration of Neglected Classics.When 'Open Book' asked various authors to champion a favourite negelected classic on the programme, Michael Morpurgo chose 'The Snow Goose'; perhaps no surprise, with his own story 'War Horse' depicting a friendship between a boy and his horse which takes them both into the horror of World War 1.
'The Snow Goose' won the listeners vote too and is now being dramatised for The Classic Serial.
I bought a 1960's copy of The Snow Goose at a library sale because it looked interesting and I had never heard of it...and I'm a sucker for new literary fare.I had no expectations of what it might be, so the fact that this slender little volume contained a heart-warming if slightly predictable story made it precious to me.
sentimentality, but no more than Old Yeller, The Yearling, and a great many other well-loved books.The story follows a hunch-backed painter, Phillip Rhayader and the girl, Frith, who befriends him over their shared concern for an injured snow-goose.
A man so repulsive that he had to seek solitude, yet so beautiful that a bird from a faraway place and a young girl found themselves inexplicably drawn to him.I would have loved to quote here some memorable Little Prince-like passages but a prohibition runs in the opposite page of the inside title.
So this is the one I shall quote:"Copyright 1940 by The Curtis Publishing Company.
No part of this book may be reproduced in any form without permission in writing from the publisher, except by a reviewer who may quote brief passages in a review to be printed in a magazine or newspaper."I do not know if goodreads qualifies as a magazine or a newspaper.
The Snow Goose is set in the years running up to the evacuation of Dunkirk in the Second World War. Originally published in 1940 in the Saturday Evening Post, it was brought out in book form the following year by Knopf, Michael Joseph and M&S simultaneously.
A new feature film will be released in the coming year.Beautifully written, with a powerful ending, and breathtakingly illustrated, this is an exquisite edition of Gallico’s masterpiece.
It’s the story of a young crippled man, a girl, and a snow goose in 1940s Essex, in the lead-up to World War II.
Very personal to me - the emotional plane is really deep and the characters are well-developed.The book is about an artist, living in a solitary lighthouse - Philip Rhayader, a local girl - Fritha, their friendship symbolized by the wounded bird - the snow goose.
The actions take place during World War II.One day Fritha comes to Rhayader's lighthouse and brings the gunshot bird, and this starts the friendship between them.
As the bird's wounds heal, so do the wounds in Rhayader's soul, too.
And friendship grows deerer."The Snow Goose's" expressionistic ending will make an emotionally developed person cry a river, I promise.
Bettie's Books
The message of The Snow Goose is clearly, never fall in love with brave disabled people because it will only end in tears.
This book was good except it was pretty obvious from the start that the inevitable would happen.
The inevitable being the aforementioned tragedy of falling in love with someone brave and disabled.
The Snow Goose is a very effective book!
After reading it I was so depressed I wanted to crawl into a hole and eat endless amounts of chocolate.Fritha and the goose are very similar!
Overall, the book is just very depressing.
My Nana lent me this short story to read, her father passed at Dunkirk so it holds a lot of meaning for her. I found the story wonderful. So great that I was planning out how I'd create a storyboard of it in my head (which I've only done once before). I'm still debating on whether I want to draw this story out. I know it's a short story and all, but drawing out each panel would take forever. I think I could condense it enough though. It's definitely been added to my list of drawing inspirations.
I am a lover of history and this book did not disappoint. So beautifully written I felt like the words were singing poetry to me! When I saw Frith standing on her tiptoes, raising her hands toward the sky, I cried and cried. Loved the illustrations that were done by Angela Barrett. I am definitely adding this to the bookcase I am filling up for my Grandbaby!!
A beautiful story of love, sacrifice, beauty, the wonders of nature, and the Dunkirk evacuation. My edition was greatly enhanced by gorgeous, slightly impressionistic paintings by Beth Peck. It's short, so if this sounds good to you, go ahead and pick it up.
This is a beautiful story of love and bravery. Loneliness, the healing of a lost, wounded Snow Goose, a haunting affaire de coeur and the Dunkirk rescue all somehow combine magically. Beautifuully written!
Beautifully written short story with the climax at Dunkirk, difficult to imagine what it must have been like to be stuck on those beaches when that flotilla of boats turned up 60 years ago.
This was not only a beautiful story but it was beautifully written as well. The details of the island made you feel like you were there and the description of the man made you grow to love him. It was heartwarming. I enjoyed it much more than I thought I would.
a bit of a cute idea but quite dull for people who aren't little kids!
A sad but lovely read with beautiful illustrations.https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/0...
This story is a fast read, but don't let the size of the book fool you. It is a beautiful story...and might I add, you may want a box of kleenix near when you read it. Some of it is written in a manner that is a bit hard to read, as the author wrote parts in the dialect that would be used by the character when spoken in English. Worth the time to re-read a few lines to understand what was said.
Очередной must read.
Makes me cry like a baby every time I read it; it's one hell of a book. Amazing writing, vivid imagery, touching story... if only it was longer!
30 NOV 2014 - recomended by Laura. See Laura's review here -- https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
“The Snow Goose” is a cameo, a brief tale of hurt, love and destruction; but beauty runs through it like a knife.
In 1930 a disfigured artist comes to live alone in a lighthouse, in the marshes of south-east England.
I won’t say how the story develops, as this would definitely spoil it for anyone who doesn’t know what it is about, but it is a tale of contrasts, of extremity, of purity.
I’ve just re-read it in a few minutes, before sending it to a family member who is interested in the events of history evoked in this powerful tale.
I loved this little, overlooked classic. It is set in the wild beauty of the Essex marshland, where a disabled artist lives in quiet harmony with his surroundings. Gallico added an injured snow goose and a young girl as untouched and beautiful as her surroundings and made a lyrical tale of a meeting of souls.Published just after the Dunkirk evacuation, it carries a message of the power of doing what is right, defending the defenseless and that real beauty is a measure of the inner man.
Such a beautiful and moving story.
I was really touched by this short tale. Almost feels like a fable.
I knew literally nothing about this going in. I saw a few of the illustrations on Tumblr and really wanted to check it out. The illustrations were truly gorgeous, especially in print, but the writing just didn't stand up against them for me. It was a nice enough story, but I just didn't feel the impact.
This book emphasised the love and the bond between Fritha the Snow Goose and Philip which also brought the worst about the war because Philip goes to the British retreat of Dunkirk but get lost, breaking the strong bond and blaming war for it.3.
From this point on after the man heals the snow goose, is when the bond really starts to grow and develop into a strong loving relationship which is boosted after every time the snow goose returns to the lighthouse, this also brings a great feel of hope.4.
I never like sombre outcomes but most of this novel is very beautiful.
The loyalty and respect for life to which it is dedicated is uplifting, like the feeling of beholding these remarkable marsh birds with your own eyes.
My province is built on a marsh.
I know how ecologically essential this kind of terrain is to Earth as a whole.
I have seen the strength and vibrancy of marsh birds, here in Canada and even in the Essex, England region of this book.
To help a bird in need of care, would be a privilege.
I'm not sure what to call this--a 20th century fable?
It's a short tale of Philip Rhayader, a kind and artistic soul with a deformed body.
In his twenties, he moves to the English seacoast to live in seclusion, away from the repulsive looks and attitudes of "normal" people.
He spends his time painting, sailing his boat and caring for the birds that take up residence in his property.
As she helps him care for the bird, a tenuous relationship develops.
It's a short, quiet, emotional tale in which love and fear, beauty and ugliness mix together to give a brief peek into reality.
