https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91415.Leif_the_Lucky
This is a gorgeous book that portrays the life of Leif Erikson and how he found America.
My favorite d'Aulaire so far and that's really saying something!
We finished this today and I was told it was "really super boring".
Some days I just want to send them to public school!But the other son quickly jumped in and said it wasn't boring, but really cool.
Well, I liked it.
The illustrations were excellent and each page had either a large colored picture or a smaller brown or black ink drawing.We learned a lot and tracked their journeys on a map.
Even though it "was boring" they were able to tell me a lot about it and I noticed them looking at the pictures the whole time.
Okay, Leif the Lucky might've topped Benjamin Franklin.
It's the d'Aulaires' world, I'm just living in it.We haven't yet read every work by the d'Aulaires.
But their works on Leif Erikson and the Norse Gods show they have a passion for Norwegian mythology, history, and folklore.
The kids absolutely loved the scene where, as their boat approaches Greenland, Erik the Red has Leif remove the carved dragon from the Viking ship's prow, for fear that its fierce expression might anger the spirits of the land.
Spice of life, I tell you.Leif the Lucky's a beautifully illustrated, fascinating read.
My 4 1/2 year old loved this book. This was our third Ingri d'Aulaire book, and I continue to appreciate her work. I find her stories more honest than other children's stories, including things like in this one where the king tells the man who was rude to him to eat until he bursts.
Yes it's a kids' book, and yes it is wonderful and endearing. I'm fortunate enough to own a couple of the d'Aulaires' books and this one is no exception to the trend of intricate and gorgeous illustrations. Were I to ever raise children, this one would hands down be in the bedtime rotation. Often.
Love to reread these books from the d'Aulaire's and Beautiful Feet.
A beautiful book and story of the adventures and voyages of Leif the Lucky. D'Aulaire books are always beautiful in their artwork. The story was a little long-winded and dull at times, but overall we enjoyed it. My 10-year-old really enjoyed the detail and story, but my 7-year-old had a hard time with the storyline and paying attention. A great supplement to history curriclum!
Summary: The story of Leif, and his trip to America.Why I Read This: I had read the Greek Myth version of the d'Aulaires' books, but someone recommended that I read a few different ones.Review: This was good. It seemed to be a good summary of the story. I'm honestly not sure if it was the true story or a mythologization (not a word) of the true story.
I really enjoy the D'Aulaire's books, especially to teach history to a broad range of ages (in our case age 3-11). The illustrations are wonderful, and we especially enjoy learning history by focusing on individual historical figures.
My kiddos and I really liked using this book as part of our history lesson about early explorers.
A fun oversized book about the vikings and Leif. Very busy illustrations.
We really enjoyed this book. I look forward to reading more of their biographies.
I read this book aloud for school. The kids all gave it 4 stars. It was a good book about Leif Erickson. It is hard to know how accurate it is because so little is known about these people.
Leif is the son of Erik the Red, a famous Viking.
Erik has a hard time getting along with his fellow Vikings and is kicked out of Norway.
He moves to Iceland but it is too crowded for him, so he strikes out to find a new unexplored land where there can be lots of space between neighbors.
He and some of his followers eventually make it to Greenland and settle there.
Some Vikings move down there and settle until they are chased away by the Native Americans.As the years pass, food for the Vikings in Greenland becomes scarce and the lack of food and the cold causes them to become smaller in stature.
I really like this author's approach to children's literature because she combines great details and story in long pages of the 50+page book but also includes beautiful illustrations that make it come alive for readers young and old. It is a great transition from picture books to chapter stories for elementary readers and gives great details about Leif Erikson a Norwegian explorer who discovered the coast of Canada around 1000 AD.I also really love her book on Lincoln. Great for read aloud to all ages or for a 3-5th grade independent reader.
This one I read along with younger son.
I would stay a page or two ahead of him, so that I could be sure he was comprehending the material.
Although the book is slender and has lots of pictures, which is why I'm sure that he chose it, it is more advanced than it looks.
The book has a rich vocabulary, and the word choices match the fact that this is very old history being told.The pictures are marvellous, and the story is good, though not quite as good as others by the same author.
My son enjoyed the book and said he would recommend it to anyone.
You cannot go wrong with the D'Aulaire's and this work is no exception. Beautiful art and compelling text bring the world of the Vikings, with it's beauty and grit, to life. The attention to detail in creating a Norse feel to the entire work is admirable. A pleasure for an adult to share with a child. Early elementary students may find it long winded and worthy of a couple sittings, but it is worth it. Recommended for study of the time period.
We have really enjoyed all of the books and art that we have read by Ingri and Edgar Parin D'Aulaire. Leif the Lucky was no exception. Even though there is surely some fiction to be weaved into these stories, it's also nice to read an entertaining book that helps us learn more about history. This one was especially fun for me since I have ancestors who came from Norway. I got to talk to the kids about how each generation carried a different last name, making family history tricky!
It's a very good story and actually funny at points too. They arrived at Newfoundland and called it Vinland and they Ballin Island and called it Stone-Slabland. In Vinland they found Native Americans (or native Newfloundlanders) and made friends with the Native Americans but the natives got angry at them once and there was a big black ball thing that they were shooting at the Norsemen.
The D'Aulaires never fail. Their books are always imaginatively illustrated and beautifully well told. The writing deeply respects the child reader and speaks to them in a voice which respects their intellect and their natural curiosity. The books are always wholesome and safe without being pedantic. This one is a real jem. We could not put it down.
We are big fans of the D'Aulaire's and their illustrations. Read as part of our Early American History curriculum (Beautiful Feet), we enjoyed each page. Our discussions centered mostly around Leif's industriousness. My boys were in awe of his adventures. It was hilarious that days later it clicked in their 5 & 7 year old brains that it was a true story.
Read this one with my kid for summer reading for school (entering 6th grade.) It seemed like it had several run-on sentences, but the pictures were interesting, and the story line was interesting. It was a shorter story on her list, to balance out the longer ones she is doing.
Part of our Beautiful Feet literature-based curriculum. Loved the book and the art work. Though, I had heard of the Vikings, I had never heard the story of Leif the Lucky and his discovery of the New World around 1000 AD.
All the books in this series are simply written, with beautiful illustrations, and from a Christian viewpoint. They're an excellent way to teach about our country's beginnings. Pocahontas was probably our favorite.
This is part of our history curriculum this year. The kids really enjoyed the story. The illustrations are great with some color pages and some just black and white. While I thought the kids might not like that...they actually thought it was "cool".
All three of my children loved this book so I may have to obtain our own copy. Went very well with our Mystery of History lesson on Leif - my children definitely agree that it wasn't Leif who was lucky but those he saved from drowning. They were also very intrigued by the beautiful illustrations!
We read this as a living history book to expand our study of the vikings. It was an excellent resource.
Explains the religious background and explorations of the early Norsemen. Good read and pictures too.
my son loved it!!!
