https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60464.Another_View
Porthkerris seems to be the nicest little place to go, or second best, to read about as told by Rosamunde Pilcher!
Ben is a difficult man whom Emma was separated from during her teens, she misses her dad more than she’d like to say and is finally reacquainted with him; only for him to take off again to America to fulfil some work obligations.
Emma is searching for something within herself if not her family, and after supporting herself from a young age, she has also reconnected with her step brother whom she missed very much.
She had read Winter Soltice and is now reading Shell Seekers, and loves them both.
We're in Germany on an extended visit, and I finished reading (my more manly) Grisham's The Broker, and had nothing else to read.
For some reason I expected Another View to be a romance novel, but it was much more.
The only time-sensitive part was the excessive (in my view) amount of smoking.
Everyone smokes in the book.
Of course I'm not a famous artist like Ben is in the story, but still, fathers are often taken away from their children by their work.
I took a few shelter magazines, a book of poetry, and this story.
I just grabbed a Rosamunde because I wanted to revisit her simple, sweet domestic stories; I didn't even pay much attention to which one I grabbed.
Turns out, though it had been years since I read it, I chose one of my most favorite of her little books.
I love watching Emma Litton grow up and seeing the way she finally learns to accept her father (and brother) for the flawed, selfish men that they are.
I love that she finally learns to love without wanting to change someone.
Sigh Just a simple, sweet story.
Even with the best will in the world, and taking into account that Rosamunde Pilcher has given me many, many hours of pleasant reading-time, I cannot reasonably give "Another View" more than 2 stars.
The usual blurb says "When you read a novel by Rosamunde Pilcher you enter a special world where emotions sing from the heart." Well, I was left out in the cold this time!
I can only presume that this novel was published when Ms Pilcher was either strapped for cash or still searching for her writing style after a period with Mills & Boon.
Welllll it was interesting to read this early work of Pilcher's from 1968 but it was not up to par with most of her other novels for me.
I did not find the characters as endearing or interesting as I have with her other books.
Her usual themes are all there - seaside England, quirky artists, a young woman struggling toward independence, strained family dynamics, cousins and relatives becoming romantically involved - (yea that's a bit odd), great imagery as always but not as good as subsequent books etc.
At least this one was short otherwise I might be a bit annoyed at wasting time reading it.
In a way, they are comfort reading.
What she creates with her descriptions are fabulous images in my head.The way she writes her stories is wonderful.
However, they smoke like chimneys and the offering of cigarettes at social events are as normal as offering someone a drink to be hospitable.One thing I like is the continuity in her books.
Artists often show up in Pilcher's stories.
I think it makes the books seem like a variety of characters reside in the same location.
The continuity is like meeting old and well liked friends.Many of her characters have money.
This is an easy, comforting book to read.
It is amazing that this book was written in 1968!
It's also amazing how quickly we become acquainted with the characters.
That's one of the reasons I love Rosamunde Pilcher's books.
In Another View we meet the first invocation of the distant artist father who features so prominently in The Shellseekers.
At the age of 19 Emma has decided to finally settle down in Cornwall and spend some time with her artist father Ben in his studio in Porthkerris, Cornwall.
But of course all doesn't go as planned.
To confuse her plans is her childhood step brother Christopher and her father's manager Robert Morrow.
The author is really good, I liked her other book, but this story was just too slow. Its an okay book cause the only really good part is the end. There are 150 pages of God knows what, almost a babbling about trivial stuff. In the last 50 pages something finally happends and then the story becomes interesting.
The author is really good, I liked her other book, but this story was just too slow. It´s an okay book cause the only really good part is the end. There are 150 pages of God knows what, almost a babbling about trivial stuff. In the last 50 pages something finally happends and then the story becomes interesting.
A young woman, after years of abandonment by her selfish idiot artist father, goes to a small village to “look after” him.
He abandons her again and she struggles on.
Will her father come back at the end of the story and save her?Some of the characters are believable, but the story is wafer thin and the dialogue in places is woeful.The cliché that all artists are selfish / smelly / dis-organised gets trotted out again.
Is the ending supposed to show that father’s knows best or that a woman can’t survive without the “love of a good man”?
This book tied in with "Shell Seekers". How wonderful! Ben Litton is a senior artist in this novel.
This novel was written in 1968 and whilst that is only 50 years ago, the world has obviously moved on so much.
Rosamund Pilcher wrote a number of short novels in her early career and this is the 2nd in a bind up of 3 that I have.
It has the descriptive qualities of her best novels, without more than a fluffy plot line.
It is still an engaging read and takes me back to my childhood of pre decimalised sterling and a more simple way of life.
Cuenta con un total de 175 páginas.Emma es una joven cuyo padre, Ben, es un afamado pintor afincado en Londres.
Es simplona, llegas al final del libro y te das cuenta de que no ha pasado nada, nada digno de mencionar, que lo único que ha hecho la autora ha sido describir cuatro cosillas, pero no hay recorrido emocional ni hay una estructura marcada ni nada por el estilo.
Ah, y una cosa que se me olvidaba: el final es tan predecible que dan ganas hasta de llorar.
Happiness is finding a Rosamunde Pilcher book that I haven't read yet. This was a delightfully quick read about an artistic family and how they relate to one another. Thrown into the mix are two men who run the art gallery that deals with Ben Litton's paintings. Ben's daughter Emma has pretty much taken care of herself while growing up. She feels a need to reconnect with her father because that's what families are supposed to do. Pilcher draws pictures with words which make you feel like you are right in the middle of the action.
Emma knew only two men in her life - her absentee father, an artist who had left her in a boarding school and only visited her every few years and Christo - her stepbrother of a few months who now wanted to get to know her better. Emma needs to know where she stands with these two men before love can bloom. I gave this story an A!
Published in 1968 this book feels rather dated and it is also very short. It was an easy read but there seemed no great depth to the characters and the plot was pretty thin. Her later books such as The Shell Seekers and Winter Solstice are so much better.
This book is about Emma Litton, 19-year-old trying to reconnect with her emotionally distant artist father.
What about the father-daughter relationship she yearns – will she get it?
After finishing Another View, I literally had to let out a nice long breath because the book was just so… charming.
There’s this blank canvas and Rosamunde Pilcher slowly paints us a picture.Cigarettes are featured often in this book.
I would say it’s equivalent to coffee (or tea) in today’s culture.
Meeting up over coffee acts like a crutch in awkward or unfamiliar situations, and just plain welcome in presence of pleasant company.

Emma Litton decides to return to Cornwall from Paris in order to spend some time with her father, artist Ben Litton.
Ben and Emma’s relationship has always been strained.
At first, things are working well but then Ben is asked to return to the States for an art show.
Can Emma take “Another View” of their relationship and what drives each of them to behave the way they do?
I needed a "cozy" after the other things I've been reading lately and Rosamunde Pilcher always delivers that for me.
I'd read this years ago but didn't remember anything about it.
Th author did a great job in explaining things between man and woman's points. Whereas, everyone's point are viewed and helped a lot to readers, like me, to understand unexplainable things and let the readers realise missing elements in such events.I can see myself to Emma's character. She was dependable to herself that shows her independence. I also liked how Emma was being considerate to her father and how her father showed his fondness to Emma, though she resented him.
Every summer needs a Rosamunde Pilcher novel tucked into it somewhere. Most of them include small villages hanging onto hillsides overlooking the sea, a couple of romantic interests and captivating descriptions of the people, the flowers, the inside of cottages and castles and the ocean in all of its moods. They are simple stories that are perfect for a hot summer afternoon sitting in the shade. Another View does not break the mold and I'm glad!
A Critical ViewAnother View was disappointing. Unlike other Pichner novels, the story seemed contrived. I never believed Emma to be real nor did I sympathize with her. However I was, as always in a Pilchner novel, swept away by her beautiful and haunting landscapes. For this reason it was marvelous . One I shall probably read again.
Anything by Rosamunde Pilcher is fun to read. However, in this book I was a little put off by all the references to smoking cigarettes. Almost every encounter seemed to involve a description of ash trays and cigarettes. There was a fair amount of drinking and driving. Have we really changed that much since the 70's?
D itsLovely Pitcher story.Gripping and encharting.I read it in one go.Cant wait for the next Pitcher book.Well written and reatchered.I really saw the areas described and the characters in the pkacesLovely description of an art gallery and its employets
Neither as good nor believable as most other works I have read by R.P. Usually I enjoy her books more than this one, maybe it is because it was one of her early ones. (Also everyone was constantly smoking, which I know was normal behavior at the time, but wow!)
This was a lame book. I hate to give anything one star..but it was dull and uninteresting. Lots of cigarettes and Scotch, some mentions of the weather, and a weak male-driven plot with dull characters. I am so glad Pilcher's writing improved..this was one of her early works.
Not quite as good as THE SHELL SEEKERS but fun to read. Another story about artisits and paintings...a father...a daughter...a stepbrother...relationships renewed after many years apart.
Lovely.....
I have read this book many times, and keep returning to it for its wonderful descriptions, setting, and mood.
As always, love the setting.
A good read
