https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159809.The_Silver_Stallion
these include jurgen's father coth of the rocks, and the other eight heroes who made up the fellowship of the silver stallion under their tenth member and leader, the count dom manuel, redeemer of poictesme (cabell's fictionalized medieval french demesne) who saved it from the pagan north men.
I will get your things together at once, and I leave it to your conscience if, after the way I have worked and slaved for you, you had the right to play this wrong and treachery upon me."And Balthis said also: "For it is a great wrong and treachery which you have played upon me, Ninzian of Yair, getting from me such love as men will not find the equal of in any of the noble places of this world until the end of life and time.
354).The novel is divided into 10 books that take place in and around Poictesme, an imaginary, 13th century land somewhere in France, and reount the adventures of Dom Manuel's followers (The Fellowship of the Silver Stallion) after his miraculous assumption into Heaven (according to the sole eye-witness testimony of the young child Jurgen) (for maps and a fuller explanation of Cabell's imaginary realm, see The Atlas of Fantasy and The Dictionary of Imaginary Places; and for a short but concise bio of Cabell, see the entry in The Encyclopedia of Fantasy).I'll leave off this unabashedly positive recommendation with a short sample of Cabell's lyrical, darkly humorous prose:Then Madame Niafer arose, black-robed and hollow-eyed, and she made a lament for Dom Manuel, whose like for gentleness and purity and loving kindliness toward his fellows she declared to remain nowhere in this world.
Cabell's oeuvre was the saga of Dom Manuel who's mother on her death bed him to "make a figure of himself in the world." The idiot strove to do just that, out of clay, bronze, sand, and glass; you get the idea.
In The Silver Stallion and 22 odd novels, stories, and poems Cabell tells of the world that the fool begets.Stallion is the second novel in the "series" and tells the story of the breakup of Manuel's Fellowship of the Silver Stallion, sort of Cabell's Knights of the Round Table with Dom as the departed Arthur.Ribald, witty, smart, dirty, blasphemous, and deliciously wordy the fate of the Fellowship as they go their separate ways is told in ten delicious "books" of mock gospel.
This books is the source of the following quote - "The optimist proclaims that we live in the best of all possible worlds; and the pessimist fears this is true."
Figures of Earth lacks the ingredients which mark out The Silver Stallion from just about every other fantasy novels, and Jurgen sometimes reads as though Cabell is trying too hard to shock the reader.
These nine men find it hard to fit in with the changes in Poictesme, partly because they remember better than anyone else what Dom Manuel was really like, and partly because they miss the old days of fighting and wenching.The them of the ageing heroes makes The Silver Stallion pretty unusual in the fantasy genre, even today.
Like Jurgen and Figures of Earth, this is one of the greatest fantasy novels, all the better for being funny (and wise). It shows how myths and religions develop, and it's a thinly disguised commentary on the growth of Christianity.
After  Domnei: A Comedy of Woman-Worship  (1913),  Jurgen: A Comedy of Justice  (1919), and other novels set in the fictional medieval province of Poictesme, comes this 1926 tale, subtitled "A Comedy of Redemption". Here, as in Jurgen, James Branch Cabell gave full rein to his taste for low comedy, much of it misogynistic. I find paragraphs about nagging wives and stupid but sexy princesses quite stale; I was just waiting for the mother-in-law to put in a tiresome appearance (she eventually doe
Domnei: A Comedy of Woman-Worship
Jurgen: A Comedy of Justice
(1919), and other novels set in the fictional medieval province of Poictesme, comes this 1926 tale, subtitled "A Comedy of Redemption".
Here, as in Jurgen, James Branch Cabell gave full rein to his taste for low comedy, much of it misogynistic.
That apart, though, there's a lot in this book that's quite brilliant, as Cabell subtly takes apart the pieties associated with the posthumous elevation of Count Manuel to the status of Redeemer.
Cabell heartily dislikes hypocrisy, and in all of his books he shows up the lies that people tell to one another and to themselves.
After the disappearance of Count Manuel, his widow and a missionary start the legend of Count Manuel the Redeemer.
The Knights of the Silver Stallion dissolve the order and wander to the ends of the earth and beyond.
Some of the knights have difficulty associating the Manuel of legend with the ordinary man they knew.
One wanders in search of a young princess.
One wanders in search of Manuel and winds up in pre-Columbian Mexico.
One wanders in search of a spirit that is trying to take over his body, and finds it.As usual, Cabbellian wit and irony.
This had been sitting on my to-read pile since my vintage fantasy phase. I guess I'd grown too tired of Eddison and Pratt to try this, but it's proven to be the most likeable of them. The book is still terrifyingly full of alien names and hints to a complex history, but it is split comfortably into short storylines containing mostly amusing fables, and the style is that of an author who knows he's overdoing it and sniggers while he does it. And I learned a few new words.
One of James Branch Cabell's best. In this sequel to Figures of Earth, which ended with Manuel of Poictesme disappearing from this world, his devoted followers meet their own eccentric endings as Cabell satirizes religion, politics, idealism, fairy tales and of course there's sex. Throughout all this the legend of Manuel slowly transforms the cynical, conniving conqueror into a saintly redeemer possessed of all the virtues.
I am currently reading this book. It makes me laugh out loud but also puts me to sleep. Frank C. Pape's illustrations are fascinating.
I read and reread the chapters on Coth, many times, and skimmed through most of the rest. Cabell is a strange writer.
fantasy
