https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97674.The_Crows_of_Pearblossom
After a martini and a discussion with his wife, Mr. Crow visits wise Old Man Owl, whoo-whoo hatches a plan to solve their snake problem for good.
The biggest bone of contention is the way Mr. Crow treats his wife.
(Gee, I can't wait til we make America great again like it was back then, eh?) Here's one possible explanation for his bad behavior.
And look at the nifty wallpaper in the crow's nest .
(view spoiler)[Though not for the snake who dies and has his body used as a clothesline.
(hide spoiler)] Mrs. Crow gets exactly what she wants.
I found them vaguely disturbing, so in that sense they went perfectly!
I'm glad Huxley mostly confined himself adult literature.The background plot here includes the mother crow's eggs being eaten day after day by a snake, which is nature for you but may be a little upsetting for sensitive children.
The relationship between the crow couple, on the other hand, was nasty in a completely human bad-marriage sense and seemed to lack affection or respect.
So we get both the depressingness of nature red in tooth and claw, and the depressingness of screwed up human meanness.
If you're starting to think Mr. Crow is a wife-hating jackass, you're probably right.Then he goes to talk to Mr. Owl, who comes up with a plan to replace the real eggs with fake eggs, thereby killing the snake.WASN'T THAT MRS.
She has a jillion baby crows and inexplicably uses his corpse as a clothesline for all the clothes they don't wear.So let's recap:The only female character wears curlers to bed, reads magazines, screams at her husband, gives birth EVERY DAY, does the shopping and cries.The male character has a job, comes up with a plan, tells the woman to shut up, accuses the woman of overeating, tells the woman she has bad ideas, and kills the bad guy.Yikes.
A única história para crianças escrita por Aldous Huxley. OS DOIS CORVOSPara os filhos e para os pais.
A Christmas gift written for his niece Olivia in 1944, this small book is an original fable that nonetheless feels familiar (isn't that the way of fables?), and has been illustrated by two Caldecott Medal winners: Barbara Cooney (who won two Caldecott Medals by herself) in 1967, and Sophie Blackall in 2011.
With the help of Old Man Owl, Mr. and Mrs. Crow stand up to their tormentor in memorable fashion, and the story lives on eternally in The Crows of Pearblossom.
As beautifully as Sophie Blackall brings the narrative to life, Barbara Cooney may have been more in sync with Aldous Huxley's vision of the story, but both editions are nice and I'm glad I read them.
A Christmas gift written for his niece Olivia in 1944, this small book is an original fable that nonetheless feels familiar (isn't that the way of fables?), and has been illustrated by two Caldecott Medal winners: Barbara Cooney (who won two Caldecott Medals by herself) in 1967, and Sophie Blackall in 2011.
With the help of Old Man Owl, Mr. and Mrs. Crow stand up to their tormentor in memorable fashion, and the story lives on eternally in The Crows of Pearblossom.
As beautifully as Sophie Blackall brings the narrative to life, Barbara Cooney may have been more in sync with Aldous Huxley's vision of the story, but both editions are nice and I'm glad I read them.
Nimic din lumea nouă a lui Huxley nu se regăsește în această cărticică. Doar o mamă cioară care nu putea să aibă și ea un pui pentru că un șarpe impertinent îi fura în fiecare dimineață oul - la micul dejun. Totuși, fapta rea are consecințe, iar soluția nu e violența. O mică lecție despre puterea celui slab, care stă în înțelepciune, nu în forță.Recomandat pentru 3-6 ani.
The version I read was from the year 1967 and I cherish the story, in no small part to my father's reading of it and the voices he gave the characters.
I still remember how we would sing the snake's song,  "I cannot fly, I have no wings; I cannot run, I have no legs; But I can creep where the black bird sings, and eat her speckled eggs, ha, ha; And eat her speckled eggs."  Because of the popularity of the book, every other review will include facts like, "the only children's book written by Aldous Huxley,"..."originally written for his niece," and there will be comments about the portrayal of female characters and overall violence and morbidity in the story, and I don't disagree with those points.

hınzırca ve eğlenceli öyküsüne rağmen elimdeki baskısının resimleri hayli sevimsiz. yine de oğlum da ben de kitabı çok sevdik
This was a book my mom read over and over as a child although she couldn't remember the name.
After a brief keyword search we were able to find it, and the correct edition with the illustrations she remembered to boot!
Getting to read this with her and hear her say several times that she remembered most of the illustrations was joyous and will be a good memory.
I love finding old childhood books of mine, so to help someone else find theirs is even better.
I liked that Huxley added people from his own life into the story, including his niece Olivia to whom he dedicated the book.
После двамата приятели отлетяха обратно в дома на Бухльо и седнаха да вечерят. Докато измият чиниите и изслушат вечерния концерт по радиото, бешe станало десет и луната светеше ярко над планините.
When Mrs. Crow catches the snake red-handed as he is swallowing another one of her eggs, she calls on her husband to solve the problem.
The Chinese ink and watercolor illustrations are wonderful, showing the "eggs" as they move through the snake's digestive system, and the story shows ingenious problem-solving, but the attitude of Mr. Crow toward his wife bothered me more than a little, which made me take off points for this one.
Children learn from what they read and see, and that sort of attitude from a husband to his wife infuriates me.
The Crows of Pearlblossom is the only children's story written Aldous Huxley, world-known author of Brave New World.
After he and his wife moved to Llano, a desolate location in California's Mojave Desert, they like to spend time walking in the desert with their two nephews, Olivia and Siggy, while visiting them in nearby town called Pearblossom.Aldous wrote The Crows of Pearlblossom in Christmas 1944 as a gift to Olivia, mentioning their neighbors Mr.
& Mrs. Yost's house as the site of the egg-making episode.Aldous's death in 1963 left the story nearly in oblivion for many years.
Exactly as child-friendly and developmentally appropriate a picture book as one would expect from the author of Brave New World. Mr. Crow, speaking to his wife: "All I said was that I didn't think your idea was a very good one. Your ideas are seldome good, I may add." There are some brief moments of humor in the writing, the story at the core of it all is a solid one, the illustrator did as well as they could with it, but, um, yikes. "Amelia, you talk too much. Keep your beak shut and get out of your nest."
This story was written almost 100 years ago by one of our greatest dystopian storytellers.
There is a lot to be analyzed and discussed within this text, including gender roles and relationships, however, consider that this story was written as a Christmas gift to Huxley's niece.
Perhaps this was nothing more than a tongue and cheek story meant to bring laughs with the nasty characters and the silliness of Crows living in a tree but shopping in a grocery store?
This is not a story full of role models for your children to emulate, but it is a story that will open up a discussion.
Paní vránová, pan vrána, pan sova a pan had.
Rozporuplné osobnosti, které si v chování nezadají s lidmi.
Pro mě docela vtipné dialogy mezi manžely jsou v zahraničních recenzích citovány jako sexistické a stereotypizační.
V mých očích trochu vázne konec, ponaučení nebo vyvrcholení příběhu bych čekal trochu pestřejší (a ne tak bezdůvodně drsné) .
Myslím, že děti se nad příběhem pobaví, ať už samy nebo pokud jim knihu bude rodič číst.
Zabaví se i u prohlížení pěkných ilustrací - česká verze zohlednila výtky kritiků a upravila například velikost vran a vyřadila některé stereotypy.
A tak jedinou, ale podstatnou otázkou je, jaká ponaučení si z knihy odnesou.
I have an imaginary shelf of children's books written by adult authors: Oscar Wilde; James Thurber; Ian Fleming; Gabriel Garcia Marquez; Edward Steichen; Andy Warhol; Gertrude Stein; Toni Morrison; Langston Hughes; Eudora Welty; James Joyce - even Leo Tolstoy. Here is Aldous Huxley's contribution, a delightfully scary story of Mr. and Mrs. Crow and a hungry, egg-stealing snake. The edition I love is illustrated by Barbara Cooney (Miss Rumphius), but Sophie Blackall has done a more recent version of the story. A shiveringly good read for any child.
Най-чудесните илюстрации на Ина Христова красят една не толкова впечатляваща история. Умили ме, че господин и госпожа Гарг се казват Ейбрахам и Амелия. Подразни ме, че господин Гарг се държи със съпругата си, докато тя е в голяма житейска криза, сякаш е абсолютна патка, а не неговата най-специална гарга. 4 звезди заради рисунките.
I really liked this as a story, but I don't think it is appropriate for kids now-a-days. The crow parents are old fashioned stereotypes from the 50's. I think this was meant to be tongue in cheek by the author, but I doubt little kids would get that amount of subtlety. The father crow is quite the ass to his wife...
'When Mr. Crow came home that evening from Palmdale, where he worked as Assistant Manager in the drug store...'Awesome! Not for every kid but to some kids this will be an amazing read for them!
A tale of trickery told by Aldous Huxley? Call me intrigued. But when read, I found a simple story told better by other picture book authors. Meh. I admire Blackhall's artistry but the story was grossly sexist - indicative of the year it was originally published.
Enjoyed reading this one as a child as the birds and Mr. Owl find a way to outsmart the dastardly rattlesnake.
I was intrigued when I learned Huxley wrote a children's book. It was interesting and clever in that fable-like way. Not something I'd read again, though.
Така му се пада на г-н Смок...
Никога не си твърде голям, за малка доза детска литература.Reading challenge 2018!
Una historia simpática con unas geniales ilustraciones.
Definitely a dated children's book. But it's cute that such a famous author wrote a children's story for his niece. Cute illustrations and a clever handling of a problematic situation.
Originally posted on Creative Madness Mama.
Although I was familiar with the fact that author Aldous Huxley wrote the well known Brave New World, I had not personally read any of his writing.
This book is witty and fun and the illustrations are vibrant and imaginative.
About the authorAldous Huxley (1894-1963), the author of Brave New World, lived the latter part of his life near the Mojave Desert, where this story is set.
Sophie Blackall is the illustrator of many children's books, including the Ivy and Bean series.
Visit her at www.sophieblackall.com.This review was originally posted on Creative Madness Mama.
I would recommend this older version to any mixed media artists who need motivation with nature.THE CROWS OF PEARBLOSSOM is the only children's story ever written by Aldous Huxley, the famous English novelist, essayist and critic.
There is a reason he did not write other stories for children.The mother crow's eggs have been eaten daily by a snake for a long time.
Owl is the brains and yet he and Mr. Crow are not mentioned after the fake eggs are put in the nest.
There is nothing written to show children that the Owl and Mr. and Mrs. Crow can have a HEA.
