https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835442.Marling_Hall
Mr. Marling, slightly deaf, can't understand why this war is not like the other (or much of anything else); Mrs. Marling does her best to deal with blackouts and rationing and things, while youngest daughter Lucy goes around doing war work and telling everyone "what." Younger son Oliver lives at home and works in a war office job while eldest daughter Lettice, a young widow, lives with her two daughters (and nanny) in the old stables.
Lucy's friend Captain Barclay resents the reappearance of David Leslie, handsome and charming, who may end up stealing the heart of the woman Captain Barclay loves.Another charming novel in the Barsetshire series.
Mrs. Smith, recently widowed, is the novel's only engaging character as she rents out her fully furnished Edwardian McMansion to a brother and sister, and then obnoxiously lets herself in with her keys and absconds with side tables, fireplace tongs, chickens and eggs, and brings back her sticky unwashed juice bottles so the tenants can reuse them.Angela Thirkell was literary high society.
Angela Thirkell was able to publish her books in what seems like nearly real-time during the war, about one per year, so what the British went through and their feelings are very near to the reader, very intimate.Thoroughly enjoyed it.By the way, my edition had the worst synopsis ever on the back cover and made it sound like some thriller romance with jealous rival sisters.
Again, I had a great time reading another Thirkell's  gentle satire of her own class and time . It is precisely what her all books are. And one of the strongest points is the fact that the novels were written in times they take place. So, they are free of later political correctness, modern points of view etc. They are simply truthful.In this book, we have again the country life in the UK in times of WWII. Rationing of food (gas etc.), coupons, a blackout, organization in case of even worst time
Lettice)--> David (from Wild Strawberries), I understand now what "David-ish" means ;-), the character of David is/was one of the most interesting characters I have ever read about--> Mrs. Smith, nurses, governesses - priceless--> the love life of Lettice, her love stories, it was one of the best romances amongst Thirkell's stories I have read, as for now.Nonetheless, I wasn't so much gripped like with a few other books of the series and I was annoyed that there were too many French sentences, the whole conversations in French.
A typical Angela Thirkell comedy of manners.
The gentry flirt and the servants play power politics.
I loved Mrs. Smith, whose husband has drunk himself to death.
She has to find lodgings and rent her house furnished, and then keeps barging in on her tenants to pick up her side table, swipe some lime juice, etc.
The flirtatious gentry discuss a 17th-century poem entitled "To his Mistrefs, on feeing fundrie Worme-caftes." In response to the question, "What about a Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Adults?" a loving mother of two small children remarks that she has often thought of founding a Herod Society.
I enjoy Angela Thirkell's sense of humor and the view of English county life she portrays in her novels. This, the 11th of her Barsetshire series, is a bit more bittersweet as it is set in the midst of WW2. This is by no means a war book, but even life in the manor house is affected by the rationing, the young men off in one branch of service or another, and the evacuees.
For this reason, as we know, she had preferred to live in the flat over the stables where at least she had solitude when she needed it and could ask a friend to tea."Lucy, Lettice's sister, on the other hand is assertive, bossy, and totally the opposite of her sister.
But is it kind to Lucy, Lettice thinks, to steal her sister's friend?'Marling Hall' was published in 1942, written in 1941.
The Harveys, a brother and sister, rent from Mrs. Smith and Miss Harvey sets her cap at Oliver Marling.
She stepped over the hassock and said good-bye to Lady Emily."And this hilarious but refreshingly unsentimental introduction to a chapter about Christmas at Marling Hall:"Most of the principal characters in this book being by now thoroughly uncomfortable in their various ways, Christmas did its best to bring on the culminating point of horror." Sounds harsh to sentimental American ears, but she goes on to irreverently and humorously explain the joys of tons of family, servants, dogs, and luggage descending on the Hall, as the residents try to put on a traditional English Christmas among the deprivations and shortages of war.
This particular edition has shocking blurbs on the front and back covers.
I was startled by this because it doesn't sound like the gentle storylines you usually find in a Thirkell book, and I almost didn't want to read it.Fortunately, it's all wrong.
This is a perfectly ordinary Angela Thirkell story, full of sedate English ladies and gentlemen, a few too many characters and a gentle, meandering plot.
Anyhow, if you stumble across this particular edition don't be fooled.
The cover is ridiculous but the story inside is, like Mrs. Morland's books, basically the same pleasant Thirkell story you've read ten times before.
Lettice, the widowed daughter of the Marlings, struggles here with her fate, and it's rather touching. (She also struggles with her nanny, which is more amusing.) But if you love the whole series, you will probably be more interested in governess Bunny, irrepressible Lucy Marling (first really Telling Us What here), irresistable Lady Emily Leslie and her possesions and her soft-but-capable daughter, and the usual flirtations of David Leslie.
Extremely funny, but takes a hard turn to the racist a few pages from the end.
#11
Much enjoyed!
Lovely book! Funny and gentle and romantic without being soppy. I love these books!
My favorite British social comedy since I Capture The Castle-- easy, fast, and delightful.
Well, this WWII Thirkell had a slightly more involving plot as it had a more involving love interest in Lettice Watson, but it also had an incredibly annoying character in Mrs. Smith, the larcenous landlady whom I yearned to see put in her place, but [spoiler] who never was. Ah well. We do get to see David Leslie in his earlier years and the young Grahams. It was okay, and Thirkell's take on Christmas during the war was scathingly honest.
Not as easy as others of hers I've read. The main characters were dull, but the lesser characters were much more interesting. I would have liked to read more of Lucy and Mrs Smith. Both were more amusing than the love triangle.
Not my favourite of this series - I found it harder going than many of the others, but it still had its moments of humor.
Enjoyable
In this witty, sometimes snarky, country house novel, Thirkell balances light romance with depictions of life during WWII. It's charming, read-out-loud funny, and thoroughly entertaining.
Angela Thirkell's characters are the epitome of Englishness. The dialogue is brilliant. Very funny & clever. I have read about half of them & still enjoy them very much. I hope the rest of the series will soon be reprinted.
This one had some charming moments, and I did enjoy David Leslie, but overall it did not rank among my favorite Thirkell novels.
