https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12555.The_Bonesetter_s_Daughter
The Bonesetter's Daughter, an sweeping novel that takes a reader from California to prerevolutionary China and back again, is the second of Tan's books that I have read this year.
A story featuring a strong mother-daughter connection that is emblematic of Tan's writing, The Bonesetter's Daughter offers readers a captivating novel in three parts.
Tan provides the reader with a glimpse of life in Peking and Hong Kong before China became a modern country.
Written in three parts, Tan creates a strong mother-daughter relationship in LuLing and Ruth as she offers similar themes in their childhood.
For the first half of the book I kept wondering what about it made it so good.
these are all good, but I finally realized in the last quarter of the book why I liked it so much.
But you hope that your feeble offering will be enough.
And it's a story about accepting the feeble offering for the gold mine that it is ...
I learned a lot about myself and my family relationships through reading this book, and would recommend it to anyone who has a loved one they just can't quite relate to or understand.
Knock on wood, let's hope it stays that way.Ruth is a 46 year-old professional woman with a busy life of her own: she has a successful but demanding career, a live-in boyfriend with whom she has a complicated relationship, 2 step kids who are bratty (imho) for most of the book, and finally, an elderly mother who may have some serious health issues to face.Her mother LuLing has one foot planted firmly in her past; her roots are in China, and she has spent a lifetime coming to terms with what happened there before she moved to the United States after WWII.There are things she has revealed to her daughter, but only in Chinese.
This is a chronicle of voicelessness across three generations of a Chinese family: it captures how these women lost their voices, why they continued to be voiceless, and how they attempted to reclaim their voice.
It may sound corny, but this book was an incredibly moving read for me, unsettling me and making me question my own experiences at its more difficult passages.
On a general note, however, please stop titling book's The Blank's Daughter.
20-21)."A lot of her [mother's] admonitions had to do with not showing what you really felt about all sorts of things: hope disappointment , and especially love.
Making her mother happy would have been easy all along.
Besides the overly long sections of actionless description (the story stagnated because of a poor balance between backstory, scene setup and description, and actual let's-move-things-along plot), the main character Ruth is so weak and whiny that I couldn't empathize, sympathize or even remotely identify with her; she made it impossible to get into the novel.
It may be unfair to give The Bonesetter's Daughter a poor review without reading the whole thing, but I wonder how anyone could stay with this character for any length of time.
LuLing, Ruth's aging and Alzheimer-stricken mother, is a strong character and the only thing that kept me in the novel as long as I was.
Like The Joy Luck Club, this book is about relationships between mothers and daughters, and the importance of knowing each other's life stories.
She believes in superstitions and curses, and needs to communicate with the dead when she makes important decisions.The second part of the book tells the story of LuLing and the bonesetter's daughter back in China.
A thread seems to tie the three generations of women together in strong, but difficult, mother-daughter relationships.I had mixed feelings about this book.
The first part of the book, about Ruth's problems and LuLing's negative parenting, dragged for me.
I just didn't enjoy this as much as Amy Tan's other books.
Her plot development, with its mother-daughter issues, has become almost a formula.
I just never thought of Amy Tan as the Maeve Binchy of Asian writing.
This is not meant to be a criticism of Maeve Binchy, an author whose well-written books I think are fun to read.
It just is I get the impression that she keeps writing the same story, just changing the locations a little and adding nuances to the characters.
That is how I am beginning to feel about Amy Tan.
The "Bonesetter's Daughter"is told as a shifting narrative of a Chines American daughter (Ruth) trying to deal with her mother (LuLing) who is starting to lose her memory due to Alzheimer's.
Ruth feels frustrated trying to deal with her mother and with her relationship with her lover Art. At times Ruth becomes mute and is unable to express herself.
I will admit that at first I didn't like LuLing until we (readers) get to read the memoirs that Ruth is having translated from what her mother wrote.
You get LuLing's earlier younger voice and your heart is definitely going to break when you read about what she dealt with while living in China.
In these documents the elderly matriarch, born in China in 1916, has set down a record of her birth and family history, determined to keep the facts from vanishing as her mind deteriorates.A San Francisco career woman who makes her living by ghostwriting self-help books, Ruth has little idea of her mother's past or true identity.
Still, Ruth recognizes the onset of LuLing's decline--along with her own remorse over past rancor--and hires a translator to decipher the packets.
Along the way, familial squabbles erupt around every corner, particularly among mothers, daughters, and sisters.
''The Bonesetter's Daughter'' is divided into three sections.
The first, set in present-day California, introduces us to Ruth Young, a Chinese-American woman whose 10-year relationship with the man she loves is deteriorating for reasons she doesn't understand.
When her mother shows signs of dementia, Ruth suddenly becomes aware of what her mother's memory loss means: the disappearance of stories that will help Ruth understand her family and give her the sense that she is part of a story larger than her own.
The middle section of the novel is the memoir written a few years earlier by Ruth's mother, LuLing, so that her daughter will know the truth about LuLing's life in China.
Meaningless words are a mere group of letters. And if these words are weaved into a 350+ pages manuscript, the essential plot is misplaced between the evaporation of its characters.  Tan exaggeratedly lengthens the stereotypical dilemma of two generations of women (mother- daughter) trying to find solace in a past laden with secrets and customs that mold cultural uprightness. Disappointing outcome to what might have been an admirable chronicle.
4 - 4.5 stars.Tan portrayed in a great way the cultural and language conflicts between migrant parents and their kids.I also enjoyed the part of the book set in China from 1915 to 1950.
I almost gave up on this book early on. I'm glad I didn't. While I didn't really care for the character of Ruth too much or her life in San Fransisco, the story of her mother LuLing really saved the book and turned the entire novel into a deeply affecting work. The middle act where LuLing is allowed to tell her story in her own words was the obvious high point of the book for me.
Pero, sobre todo es la historia de una madre y de su hija, y del descubrimiento de esta última de la verdadera madre que se esconde tras esa fachada.
El conflicto entre ellas y la paz final.Se pueden ver como dos partes muy marcadas que son la historia de la hija y el resto de la novela.
Parece más real, más personal, como si Amy Tan nos estuviese contando sus propias experiencias.
Una novela que, a través del relato de las vidas de esas mujeres, se descubre un trasfondo lleno de fuertes sentimientos que van aflorando en determinados momentos.
My edition of this book is actually the large print hardcover, which I discovered on my shelf and remembered that I was supposed to read and send it along to a friend.
Since I have another book ready to send to her, I am glad I found this one before and not after a trip to the post office!When I first started reading this story about the relationship between Ruth and her mother LuLing, I had the oddest feeling that I had read the book at sometime in the past.
The Bonesetter's Daughter was a beautiful and complicated story about maternal lineage, Chinese culture and family bonds.
An absolutely mesmerizing and heartwrenching tale that focuses on the lives of 3 generations of the well respected and famous bonesetter from a small Chinese village.The author has a gift for creating a story rich in history and emotion.
The plot spans from early 20th century to present day.
It takes place in Peking, Hong Kong and North America.This is a slower moving tale that takes its time.
By the end, old secrets are revealed and life lessons are learned.
A beautiful end to a beautiful story.
am citit-o candva, acum cativa ani buni, dar mare lucru nu-mi mai aminteam....a fost o experienta cel putin placuta, o gura de aer proaspat si o iesire din cotidian care mi-a confirmat ideea ca muzica si cartile sunt motive suficiente pentru a te bucura de viatã ....
"The Bonesetter's Daughter" is the second to last Amy Tan novel I have yet to re-read, and like "Hundred Secret Senses," I realized I couldn't remember a dang thing about this book.
Turns out that "Hundred Secret Senses" was about an insufferable woman with a badass sister who had an awesome backstory to tell - turns out that "The Bonesetter's Daughter" is about an insufferable woman with a badass mother who had an awesome backstory to tell.The first thing making Bonesetter Stick out is the fact the daughter's - Ruth - POV is written in third person.
I remember my original frustration was that I was much more used to Amy Tan’s work which is primarily set in the past.
This book starts in the present day and remains centered there, even as the past is explored.
Sadly, this present-focus remains less engaging for me than other works by Tan. I don’t need to love or even like the protagonist, but I also don’t want to be annoyed, bored or just uncomfortable spending time with them.
Her present world is bleak and joyless and reading it felt sort of joyless for me.
The mother-daughter relationships spanning over three generations was done so authentically it is hard to believe that Amy Tan was not there herself in each generation living those lives in all the different scenes/eras of the book."Things I must not forget" - is the first line of some Chinese writings which her mother handed to her and which she managed to translate.
But she first had to relive two other lives through her mother's meticulous writings to reach a point where she connect all the dots in her own personal relationship-issues with the people around her.I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
Wonderfully moving story of mothers and daughters and how the way we learn to relate with our mothers can impact every other relationship we form in life.
The characters grow and learn and change over the course of the story in a most satisfying way, although the author does come perilously close to an unrealistically (view spoiler)[Happily Ever After ending.
Hardcover version, has been on my bookshelf for so long I don’t even remember when or where I got it.
This book is both set partly in China and the author is the daughter of Chinese immigrants to the US.
Set in both pre-communist China and modern day California, telling the story of Ruth and her mother LuLing.
LuLing is quarrelsome, manipulative, and has made Ruth's life hell for many years.
Ruth tries to be understanding, but her mother is driving her crazy and when the doctors say that LuLing is sliding into dementia, Ruth's life turns upside down and leaving her to pick up the pieces.
Sorting out her mother's rubbish filled home Ruth finds out that what she thought she knew about LuLing may have been quite different.
Like most of Tan's books, this novel focuses on mother-daughter relationships extending over several generations.
It is a tale of discovering the truth about our past and ourselves.
Ruth's mother LuLing is suffering with the early stages of Alzheimer's and carefully writes down the "Things I Know Are True" and the "Things I Must Not Forget" - leaving them for her daughter to find.
These are the vehicles through which Ruth discovers the secrets and truths hidden in her mother's past.
This is a wonderful book - a little slow in the beginning but fantastic overall.
This makes the book much more personal and even more wonderful.
I enjoyed this - I wouldn't recommend the audiobook though.
3.5 stars - struggled to get into it for the first part but then I really started to enjoy it when it went more to the past!
This is my third Amy Tan book.
Amy Tan has a timeless writing style.
Amy Tan writes with a unique style that is perfect in every way.
I love reading books about historical Chinese culture, like Snow Flower and The Secret Fan and The Concubine Saga.
From generation to generation the reader gets to see why things are the the way they are in one family.
Why does Ruthie's mom think she going to be punished?
I like the way Amy Tan makes the sequence of events follow so easily in this book.
Ruth is part of the sandwich generation, trying to balance her live-in boyfriend and his daughters along with her increasingly more forgetful mother and a demanding job.This was my first Amy Tan book and I found it to be riveting. I found Ruth's story much easier to follow. LuLung had a really difficult life and I found myself depressed.
Then, in the last few pages, magically out of thin air, a huge trust fund appears so the elderly mother can afford the nicest assisted living facility available, a professor instantly decides the elderly mother (the one with dementia) is ideal girlfriend material, the insecure boyfriend becomes Mr. Rock overnight (and his daughters start being wonderful), her career evaporates into thin air as she becomes a novelist, and magically the old mother (who has been wandering the streets in her nightgown, remember) remembers a name she couldn't think of for decades...
The Bonesetter's Daughter is told from two points of view: Ruth, a first-generation Chinese-American working in San Francisco as a ghost writer, and her mother LuLing growing up in China and how she moved to America.
I enjoyed reading the first part of the book and was quickly hooked with Ruth's story.
However, it all went downhill when the story switched to LuLing's point of view and how she told the story of her childhood in China, her precious Auntie, and other events that transpired.
Overall, it had a great beginning and a good ending, but I would not recommend this book because of LuLing's part in the middle.
Amy Tan has a way of getting inside mother daughter relationships that is startling.
The Bonesetters Daughter is probably the darkest of her novels, despite the (too) neat ending.
The stories of the women are fascinating, though I had a hard time liking Ruth much which is probably unfair, I know all too well how difficult mother daughter relationships can be.It is the type of book that makes you want to ring your mother or grandmother and ask questions about their life that you hadn't thought to ever ask.
