https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150104.Save_Me_the_Waltz

Save me the Waltz, for example, is probably not a four-star book.
It was, however, a four-star reading experience because I have a fascination with the Fitzgeralds; because it is challenging and fragmented and bizarre; because it makes no sense as a novel and belies the meaning of the genre.
Certainly not a read for everyone, but if you have read Tender is the Night, or are at all interested in the lovely Zelda, Save Me the Waltz might be a good one to check out.
You can literally see Fitzgerald's mind coming to pieces as the book progresses.
“I’m never going to get through this.”Either I grew used to it, or she toned her writing down, but reading Save Me the Waltz was not that difficult.
Even when her prose was at its densest, I still found it immensely interesting to read and admire the interesting way Zelda viewed the world.I have to say, my decision to read Nancy Milford’s biography of Zelda first was a good one; Save Me the Waltz would have been a tad disorienting had I not.
I did like the book on its own, but reading it as an extension of the Fitzgerald saga made it more enjoyable, and I’m sure less confusing than it would have been.
I've been fascinated with the Fitzgeralds, admire FS Fitzgerald's writing, and have been curious to read Zelda's work.
Obviously a work of fiction, yet this novel has been surmised to be a reflection of Zelda's view of their courtship and marriage.
The word selections Zelda uses to tell her story give the appearance she sat with a thesaurus in hand as she wrote.
I read a comment that she was attempting an effort to write like James Joyce whom she admired.
I wish she wrote like the Zelda I've witnessed in her letters.
The main character, Alabama is a portrait of a wife of a famous artist who struggles to live her own life in the shadow of the success a famous husband.
Sometimes, she is quite obsessive in becoming a dancer even if she was not young any longer.One feels that Zelda wrote this book as an auto-therapeutic way out in order to surpass her mental issues (she was diagnosed with schizophrenia).
She lived in a mental hospital and died in an accidental fire in 1947, seven years after Scott's death.Perhaps it's a good time to re-read "Tender is the night", published in 1934, where Zelda appears as Nicole.
Maybe a year ago, full of myself and abnormally self-conscious after reading only some YA and some trashy romances in English, I had borrowed a copy of this book in English, being sure that I could manage anything in Shakespeare’s language.
Still, I loved the overall reading experience, that’s why the high rating.I’m one of those readers who enjoy the lyrical elaborate writing, who take time in apprehending the beautiful words, the narrative prose and the pretentious descriptions of mundane things.
If you are the type of reader who enjoys stick-to-the-point writing, this is not for you in any way, because the author is taking the purple prose to the next level.
I'm convinced that she either wrote or edited the first party scene in "Gatsby" because that same cadence of phrasing in those long sentences that crescendo to delirious heights appear throughout "Save Me the Waltz." Another bias that supports five stars rests in my sympathy for Zelda's protagonist, Alabama.
Her marriage to David, the painter is a harmony of art, friends and travel.
Despite their harmony, she withers in the growing shadow of her husband's popularity which motivates her to break out on her own, not for spite but for aesthetic development as ballet dancer.
The book's introduction aptly calls this novel a "literary curio." I agree.
As I picked up Save Me the Waltz to read it a second time, the dry brittle pages started crumbling under my fingers, the dog-eared corners simply gave up and fell away, leaving me surrounded with tiny flakes of yellow paper.Though I wanted to read this while also reading Tender Is the Night, it looks like I'll need to do some book rescue before I can read this one.
Offered a place in an Italian ballet, she leaves David to care for Bonnie, while she desperately tries to carve a name for herself, independent of David's stellar career.And this is where Alabama and Zelda's life part ways.
Moore writes that "the reader who is jarred by the prose at first will find it less turgid beginning about one-third of the way along" and, thankfully, this is true.
The novel picks up about about a third of the way in, both in terms of the writing and as a story.
While I can't honestly say that the novel is great, there are certainly moments when the metaphors Zelda uses (when she does not overuse them) startle and resonate; and her charm shines all the way through, giving the reader a glimpse into her mind, her life, and her relationship with her husband.
شاركني هذا الفالس.....زيلدا فيتزجيرالدهي صرخة امرأة عانت الكثير في حياتها، امرأة وصلت لأعلى درجات ال
I think that Zelda Fitzgerald wrote this book as a reaction to F Scott Fitzgerald using their lives and anecdotes as a basis for many of his books.
She was a frustrated ballerina and made her protagonist become the star of a ballet troupe in Naples, Italy, where she was asked to join, but was not allowed to accept, by her husband.
I felt the book was well written and her explanation of various horrible things that aspiring ballerinas endure was enlightening.
It also illuminated her spiral into mental illness, and the sad decay of their marriage, as she got further and further obsessed about being a ballerina.
"I am so outrageously clever that I believe I could be a whole world to myself if I didn't like living in Daddy's better." - Alabama Beggs As the glamorous wife of a famous author, Zelda Fitzgerald was already a celebrity when her first (and only published) novel, Save Me the Waltz, appeared in 1932.
Moore's preface (no doubt meant to argue for the novel's significance) is oddly backhanded about book and its author.
Bruccoli's notes reconstruct how the book was edited, revised, and ultimately, published.
These notes seem to refute the widely-held belief that the author's husband tried to suppress and sabotage the book's publication.
Curious as to what the mysterious and haunted figure of Zelda had to say for herself.
Have just gotten through the intro, but am a bit mortified by Harry T.
Moore of Illinois State University's statement that "Obviously, Save Me The Waltz is not at this height of achievement.
Yet it deserves to be read as something more than a mere commentary on or analogue of Tender is the Night...this book may lack the finished craftsmanship of Fitzgerald's work, but Save Me the Waltz has a current of life running through it.
It can be read for its own sake." Thanks, Harry.
In that sense, this is best read as the other side of the story that Fitzgerald told, not just in Tender, but also in Gatsby and The Beautiful and Damned.
The second half is where Zelda focuses on her own life: her character, Alabama, starts studying ballet seriously, as Zelda herself did, and finds some measure of liberation and self-identity outside of her relationship to Fitzgerald.
Although this is conceived of, and received as, fiction, it's really a kind of fictionalised autobiography and tells a different story from the myth that Fitzgerald's novels promulgate.
It is a tangle of madness, misery, and even general misanthropy, but it is also tinged with love, admiration, and moments of lucidity.Had this been properly revised, I think it could have been quite a masterpiece.
Zelda has this remarkable way with words (half of the lines in the book will require you to read them two or three times over) even though some of her phrasing in somewhat incomprehensible.
To say this is a product of madness is wrong and misguided.
Although is infuriating at parts, its sentimentality keeps its reader engrossed--it properly observes a time period through the looking glass of an individual life.
Save Me the Waltz was written over the course of six weeks and was the first and only novel to be published by Zelda Fitzgerald.
Scott Fitzgerald’s novels are also autobiographical and he used the same material for his novel Tender is the Night.I wanted to read Save Me the Waltz after reading Tender is the Night to compare the similarities.
Zelda Fitzgerald wants to challenge the conceptions people had of the role of a wife in a marriage and ask why it was alright for a man to go away for work but not the woman.This can be a very difficult novel to read, knowing the historical context and history behind the story.
I am surprised and disappointed as I love both The Great Gatsby and Tender Is the Night, and so was looking forward to reading Zelda Fitzgerald's perspective on some of the events that inspired Tender Is the Night.
Although, that said, there are plenty of people who seem to find something more in this book.Here's a couple of examples of the writing style:"The swing creaks on Austin's porch, a luminous beetle swings ferociously over the clematis, insects swarm to the golden holocaust of the hall light.
133 If that style is to your taste then perhaps you might enjoy this book.
They return to the States with their daughter, Bonnie, to visit the death bed of the Judge, ending the story essentially where it began.This mostly autobiographical book was written during Zelda's first psychiatric clinic stay as part of her recovery program.
Scott Fitzgerald, read the intial draft he insisted Zelda change several details - he felt the story was not particularly kind to his image and "stole" from his own writing.
It did not take off like her husband's writing which only exacerbated her hysteria.
This is a hard book to read--an even harder book to write.So much of this novel has to been seen in the context of Zelda Fitzgerald being the wife of the most popular and well regarded writer of her peers.
The plot is as simple as it sounds but it is Zelda's unique attempt to string words and meaning together in her own way and the obvious struggle to avoid comparsion to Scott that makes this interesting.Zelda's use of words and description--at points--is forced with her trying so hard to not sound like the one writer she knew and loved.
Este asa de usor sa fii iubit- asa de greu sa iubesti.
I felt that in the later parts of the book she started using them even more and more and I found myself getting really annoyed with that (or maybe it just seemed like she was using more and more elaborate comparisons because I was feeling quite irritated when I encountered another one).
Still I give it a 2-star rating instead of 1 star because I do like the idea that writing her story and getting it published served as a kind of therapeutic experience for Zelda.
Alabama is living her dream of having fun and lots of parties, a loving marriage, money to buy anything she wants, servants to look after the practicalities of child-rearing and house-keeping, living for the day and ignoring the consequences.
This section is more interesting, in part because it mirrors the story of Scott and Zelda's own marriage.We do not get a great insight into why Alabama embarked on an affair with a French airman and destroyed this idyll.
The one and only novel written by Zelda Sayre Fitzgerald, Save me the Waltz is the novel my very small book group chose for our July read.
The novel is still fascinating for what it might teach us about Zelda herself.“She felt the essence of herself pulled finer and smaller like those streams of spun glass that pull and stretch till there remains but a glimmering illusion.
Alabama was in love.”The novel tells the story of Alabama Biggs, the youngest of three sisters, she grows up in the south, fascinated by her older, beautiful sisters and their beaus, she is in a hurry to grow up.
J'avais vu que ce roman inspirait des critiques plutôt mitigée et pourtant, cela a été une excellente lecture pour moi !La première chose qui m'a frappée est la qualité de l'écriture de l'autrice.
ses phrases sont magnifiquement tournées, le vocabulaire est soutenu et imagé, même si j'ai mis un peu de temps à rentrer dans l'histoire cela n'a été que du plaisir par la suite.J'ai adoré suivre l'histoire d'Alabama (ou de Zelda finalement), je l'ai trouvée touchante dans sa quête de se faire reconnaître pour ce qu'elle est et ce qu'elle sait faire ou dans sa relation complexe avec son mari.On retrouve tout au long du livre cette ambiance "années folles" comme dans les romans de F.S. Fitzgerald et dont Zelda retranscrit parfaitement les excès.On parle énormément de Zelda Fitzgerald comme de "la femme de" mais ce roman prouve qu'elle avait un talent bien présent pour l'écriture et qu'elle restera comme une personnalité unique de son époque.
Poor thing.
Poor, poor thing.
Zelda had such a wonderfully, dismally, perfectly sad life, that was absolutely filled with her optimistic outlook and biting wit.
I loved the part of her childhood, where she was so conniving and so intent on catching everyone out.
Heralded only as the wife of Scott Fitzgerald, Zelda deserves far more a substantial place on the pantheon.
Her words flow slightly clunkier than Scott's, and with slightly less of a refined tone, but Zelda writes with such a raw passion.
She is honest, and her words are pure.
Zelda is simply a beautiful woman, with beautiful thoughts, transmitting them in beautiful words.
I don't think I understood one darn thing about this book.
I feel like I'm missing something given all the positive reviews of the book.
I don't understand a darn thing about Alabama, David and Bonnie.
I took notes and everything but all I know is that a free spirit girl married a man who left her feeling uninspired and had a child even though she probably had no business being a mother.
They both did this while nannies took care of their daughter...honestly, how did that girl grow up even slightly normal.
It wasn't until late in the book that David showed any interest in his daughter and her care/upbringing.
I felt like I 'owed' it to that version of myself to finally read it now that it is, deservedly, much easier to come by, but it only makes clear how far from that self I've wandered.
Impossible as it is to separate from her own life, it alternates between wish fulfillment, self-flagellation and a sad and cunning work of revenge, and I do think for a reader currently in any kind of Zelda headspace this will be a moving and illuminating experience, regardless of how well-written you may find it to be.
3,5 He disfrutado mucho con la forma de narrar tan especial de Zelda, un libro lleno de preciosas descripciones y poéticas metáforas.Como punto negativo, la narración se hace a veces algo confusa, salta de una situación a otra de forma brusca en ocasiones y esto hace que se pierda el hilo.
Era una luz sacerdotal que se curvaba en los huecos y en las hondonadas de un vals melancólico.'' Zelda Fitzgerald.
Χρησιμοποιώντας αρκετά έως πάρα πολλά προσωπικά στοιχεία καταφέρνει να δημιουργήσει ένα έργο για μια δυναμική γυναίκα που προσπαθεί να ισορροπήσει ανάμεσα στην ίδια και σε αυτό που θέλουν οι άλλοι από εκείνη.
Η θέση της σύγχρονής γυναίκας και οι αναχρονιστικοί θεσμοί που προσπαθούν να την εντάξουν σε κουτάκια και νόρμες, θα μπορούσαν να είναι άλλη μια όψη της ανάγνωσης αυτού του βιβλίου, μα αυτό που εν τέλει σου μένει είναι μια γλυκιά μελαγχολία και αναπόληση για μια εποχή που είναι τόσο μακρινή μας, αλλά που ωστόσο μοιάζει αρκετά στη δική μας κοινωνικοπολιτική και οικονομική συγκυρία.
Imperfect but I loved it.
