https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/621607.The_Story_of_the_Irish_Race
i found a $20 bill on page 100 while looking at it at powells bookstore, so i bought it
this was the first book I ever read on Irish history.
over the years I have read quite a bit of Irish history and keeping coming back to this every once in awhile.of course, it is a bit "propagandist" concerning several subjects.
when one considers that: A) this was written in the aftermath of the Irish Civil War by a man who served in the resistance  B) the title states "A Popular History of Ireland"this is in fact a great resource in understanding where Nationalistic Ireland is coming from to this day.
This book sifts for facts among the fables.
Invaders and powerful kings make up much of the early narrative, as it was they who left historical footprints.
Tribal Ireland needed powerful kings to form a united front against foreign invaders.
Indeed, Ireland was invaded and colonized so many times from so many directions that it is hard to say for sure who the Irish are.
At times this book becomes a litany of atrocities committed against the Irish, but that's the way it was.
Did you know that the Irish invaded England?
That the Irish were more fluent in Latin than in English?
He declares on the first page that the purpose of this rough and ready sketch is to provide a history of Ireland for her people and exiles (and descendants of those exiles - of whom I am one).
The author's pleasure in the lore and songs and poetry of Ireland, his love of it through every defeat and misfortune, his delight in its glories - all of this shines through the pages.The author may well be biased (and his expressed opinions are, of course, not infallible).
He recounts events that reflect poorly on the Irish and provides support for anti-English or pro-Irish statements from sources that have no bias in favor of Ireland (and perhaps some in favor of England).
Not a light, easy read, although it is easier to read than any history text I have had to tackle. I am reading this for pleasure, and it is an enjoyable book. It is written in a fast paced, novel-like style, but it is very involved and will take a while to finish.
When Cuchulain goes into a killing rage, his lower legs turn around backwards, one eye sinks into his head, the other sticks out like a horn, his hair sticks up straight into hard spikes. Though normally he's a kind of good looking guy.
As one review said, this book is written for Americans who know dittily about Irish history, myself included.
An _excellent_ book for those wanting to get a broad overview of Irish history. I read this about ten years ago. I picked it up and 'only put it down to eat'. If you have any Irish blood, it'll leaving you feeling like a nationalist.
Beautiful book which I return to frequently
Every little Irish shop in america seemed to sell this book when I was growing up, and I got a copy as a gift from my mother at the time.
I never got around to reading it then and the book itself is long gone, but I'm finally reading the text as an ebook.
Unfortunately, neither the tone (unabashedly uncritical and ahistorical) nor the style (unnecessarily convoluted) have worn at all well since the book's initial publication almost a hundred years ago.
If you are interested in an objective history of Ireland this isn't it. But it is a very readable and impassionate story of Ireland and it's efforts to gain independence from British rule.
So this book was very well written in my opinion.The chapters were relatively short, which made reading a bit easier, and the breakdown of information could have been done a bit better, but this was overall a good book.There were a lot of parts that I knew (or knew variants of), which was nice for me to read and see a different perspective (albeit slightly) on these stories.
I started reading this book about 10 years ago, but never got past the first couple of chapters.
I'm not sure why, but I think it had to do mainly with the author's stilted and grandiose language, making it seem more like a propaganda work (which it surely was, being written during the Irish Civil War) than a serious scholarly work.
For me, the last few chapters was a race to finish the story so I could get away from the jingoistic drumbeat of Irish moral superiority and victimhood (and I say this as a fan of most things Irish!).As a work of propaganda, this book is progressively heavy-handed and quaint, an early version of the art that was perfected later in the 20th Century by Goebbels and Mikhailov.
It begins with ancient oral history and ends in the 1920's. Beautiful written and comprehensive history of ancient Ireland to early 20th century Ireland and it's connection to much of the rest of the world. Ireland was invaded, but never conquered by any country except Brittan and even then the people were never conquered. The atrocities committed by those attempting to commit genocide is heart rending. Seumas MacManus tells Irish history from the heart of an Irishman. Everyone should read this book because without this knowledge what happened in Ireland will happen someplace else.
This book was written only 2 years after Ireland obtained its independence from Britain, and it loudly trumpets the greatness of Ireland's history. No attempt is made at objectivity. I respect his pride in all things Irish, and I believe he does a good job giving Ireland credit for much that had been long neglected. MacManus is a good story teller and Ireland has a grand story to tell. All in all a good read. My wife and I enjoyed seeing his house last summer near Donegal, which sparked our interest in this book.
This is an interesting book about the Celts, Picts, Romans Christians, everybody who ever was on the Isle of Erin!It reads like a textbook, and reminded me of several Middle English books I read during college. Not in a bad way, just not an easy read-informative. I liked the old Breton Lays included and the history of St. Patrick. But it took me forever to get through since it was more for informational purposes than pleasure. Well, written, long-winded and really interesting.
If you have Irish blood in you like me, you might feel like Luke if he had read Ben Kenobi's history of the Empire instead of meeting him. If Tatooine was America, and it really was too late to do anything about the Death Star.This man was the last of the Irish Jedi, whose power was story telling.
After two years of off and on reading this book I finally decided to just finish it! Despite being a history book it is an interesting read, especially for someone who knows their ancestors were Irish. I feel like this book opened my eyes to the hardships that the Irish have had to endure, and I wonder why their plight isn't taught hand-in-hand with the holocaust in school.
I read this book years ago pre-GoodReads, but came across it in my bookcase this week. This is a comprehensive history of Ireland and it's inhabitants and cultures. While it may not be for everyone, if you have Irish blood, this is all part of your heritage and you will probably find at least parts of this story to be interesting and make you even prouder to have Irish ancestors.
I found it informative. It went on for too long about the men who were missionaries, but in all an excellent book on Irish history.
Wonderful book, written for those of us with immigrant ancestors from Ireland, it is especially insightful! Highly recommend.
A great resource guide for little details.
Interesting to read from the view of the Irish. Had a lot of propaganda from about the time the author talked about St. Patrick on to the more modern era of rebellion in the 20th Century.
Pedantic approach but intersting and complete history of the Irish People
A hard read, but worth it for the in-depth history.
on page 32, i was already overwhelmed with all the tough names and decided to give up.
