https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/945831.The_New_World
It is fascinating to see the development of rights and the evolution of the common man taking powers bit by bit over the centuries.Churchill is clearly writing with the perspective of a leader who has seen the worst of what dictators can be.
It is clear Cromwell was a significant part of the limited monarchy and recognition of rights of the common man which have given rise to freedom in the western world.
He also sees Henry VIII and Elizabeth in less favorable light than others I've read.
For all his faults, I love him!
Although his bust no longer adorns the Oval Office, my four volume set of Winnie's History of the English Speaking Peoples shall continue to adorn my bookshelves and be referred to whenever the subject of British history comes up.
Churchill is witty, wise and incisive with a love for the English speaking peoples, on both sides of the Atlantic(!), borne of his Anglo-American parentage.If you don't read any other history of Great Britain, read this one.
Volume II proceeds more slowly and deliberately than Volume I, covering fewer regimes in a greater number of pages.
Henry VIII breaks with the Catholic Church, Richard II is a swine, and then Charles I tries to get the king’s mojo back, but his reign devolves into 12 years of “Personal Rule” and a dissolved Parliament, which then brings on Cromwell and the Roundheads, and the first standing commoner-officered army who end up reeking Puritan havoc on the land, and when finally the dust settles and the fires are quenched, Parliament has brought back a king, Charles II.
From the start of the Stuart monarchy with Henry VII, the break wth Rome over the divorce of Henry VIII with Catherine in order to marry Ann Boleyn(which he later got rid of), the rules of queen Elizabeth and the fights with the Spanish, the first civil war, the era of dictatorship under Cromwell, the restoration and the final glorious revolution of 1688, the rise and fall of such men as Pym, Stafford, Shaftesbury (who was the philosopher John Locke's patron), and even an ancestor of Churchill.
It has given me great background context for my readings in the history of political philosophy, which just started with John Locke's second treatise of government.
This book was a pleasure to listen to. The narrator is very competent, and manages to interpret the text with wit and meaning. The information in it is very extensive, and very well presented and balanced. Even though it comprised periods of history which I don't know much of, I was able to follow the main events and personages and learn a lot from it. Churchill's phrasing and writing is superb. There are various parts in which he seems to speak to the reader, in which he puts asides about current affairs and how certain events unfolded throughout history.
A very good and relatively brief overview of the time from Henry VIII to the Glorious Revolution of 1688. Some (not much) historical information contained herein is, granted, generally out-of-date now (due to more research having been done since the publication of the book) but on the whole, this book was well-written, interesting, and informative.
I'm fairly convinced that from 1457 till 1688, Wales did not exist.
This volumes covers The Tudor Dynasty, sorting out the mess of Henry VIII and the church.
The final quarter of the book deals with the English civil war, the Cromwell era, and as the political parties of the Whigs and Tories arrive on the scene as the Catholic King James II tries to bring back catholicism to England the people revolt as the book ends with the Revolution of 1688, keeping the catholic religion from being re-established in England.
Oh and there are more wars.
conquering, hangings and beheading's in case you wondered, this time around people were getting a bit fed up with arbitrary punishment.
This second volume of Churchill's History of the English Speaking Peoples was fantastic. I love the way Churchill writes, and I think for these historical works, he mixes in just the right amount of information with his personal touch and opinions. I think he is biased toward the greatness of England (in his mind), but I find this gives more character to the books. This volume covered the Tudors and the Stuarts and filled in some gaps in my knowledge (particularly with the Stuarts). Looking forward to the next one.
I just read The New Word A History of the English Speaking Peoples Volume 2 by Winston Spencer Churchill. Great book highlightening the reigns of the Tudors and Stuarts, often turbulent, and the Protestant Reformation's impact on England. The English Civil War and colonization is also stressed. A fine book. I especially liked the information provided on Oliver Cromwell.
Other reviews have summer up the content. The Tudors through 1688, with a dash of America thrown in. You either love Churchill's narrative historical style, or you hate it. I enjoy it. This is all new to me, and I'm learning a lot. The series is highly recommended, especially for Americans looking for a high level overview of English history.
Not as compelling as volume 1. So many names of minor historical figures that only a student of English history could put them in perspective.The constant warring over royal succession and religious controversies make it clear why our founding fathers created our government structure the way they did.
An interesting, high level view of the history of the English speaking world as seen by the great Sir Winston Churchill. Covers the Tudors and the Stuarts. Perhaps most amusing is the brief mention of the author's eponymous predecessor.
Read this for school
Bit more tedious than Volume I, but fantastic; and narration for the audible version is excellent.
Review title: A history of the rulers of the English speaking peoples, you meanIn Volume Two of Churchill's classic, the weight of historical documentation starts to tell on the ability of a narrative history like this to encompass its scope, such that even with a much narrowed focus (covering just two centuries) Churchill is also forced to narrow his scope even further, to basically a history of the rulers; even Shakespeare fails to earn a mention in the index and the text.
So, while his writing is superb, and the narrative history the perfect introduction to the time-line of English history, the reader must read with context and perspective in mind.
England was ready to fight but needed someone to provide the leadership and Churchill, the right man and the right time, provided it.
Not everything in history is covered only those things judged important by Churchill.
Also, the set is not the last word by Churchill as he continues the story in his four volume sets on WWI and WWII which I will read soon.
Beautifully written. I’ve read quite a bit but every other page contained a new word that I had to check up. But language used was ideal for the subject matter.
Shortly before the eruption of the Second World War, Winston Churchill was busy at work authoring a history of the English and American people, of which this is volume II.
To be sure, this volume is set in in the Age of Discovery, and there is a section on the first few English colonies...but this work's primary focus is charting the transformation of England from a strongman monarchy into a constitutional government largely run by Parliament.
Winston Churchill, in his classic energetic yet understandable prose, narrates the history of Britain from the ascension of Henry Tudor at the end of the Wars of the Roses to the crowning of William of Orange in the Glorious Revolution of 1688.
This book should be the first resource for anyone seeking to understand the personalities, causes, and effects of the English Civil War. This book assesses the religious fissures between Catholics, Anglicans, Presbyterians, and Congregationalists that led to the eruption of constitutional conflict.
This book was written by Winston Churchill the famous war leader and politician and he actually won the Nobel prize for literature for this series of four volumes of English history.I read this because my knowledge of English history is surprisingly full of holes.
And despite the older style in language it is a pretty easy read.If you are in the mood to learn English history then this is a pretty good Place to start for an overview.
Then you can pick the bits that are most interesting for you and read more specific books on that subject.
Churchill gets deeper into both the politics between King and Parliament (which was fascinating) and the twisting and turning of generals and admirals in war (which I have never found interesting).
One thing I did appreciate was that, no matter who he was writing about, Churchill found something good to say.
All personages of history are presented by Churchill in their full light, making his history a very human history, even though his "English-Speaking Peoples" are generally only those with titles or big jobs.
With each new problem in government, war, or diplomacy, Churchill seems to try and show not only the events but the people who guided or thrust them forward.
I read this series when I was in high school but I'd forgotten nearly everything.
This was a good volume to start with, for me at least, as it covers the period of British history about which I know the least - the 16th and 17th century.
It was followed by a period of great artistic creativity and productivity - some comfort in our current climate.
This is a middle book of four or five, so I'm going to work my way through the series.
The second of four volumes in Churchill's (thus far) lively and interesting history.
For all that I did disagree with of Churchill's opinions, it was still a fantastic overview of a very important and formative period in English (and world) history.
Not only was I able to connect the dots between many already-familiar tales and view them against their proper historical backdrop, but I learned all sorts of new things and gained new study interests (Monmouth's Rebellion, for example).

I found this to be a very interesting history that I will likely read again to help myself remember much of the detail better.
It covers 200 years of history, from 1485 to the 1680s.
The writing is information dense, so keeping the people straight and their allegiances is difficult.
The writing is engaging, but I sometimes get the feeling that there are aspects of what is going on that I do not understand as well as I should because I lack much background in understanding the current system of government in Great Britain.
Churchill seems to be assuming a certain level of knowledge.
Churchill continues his magnificent history in this volume covering the end of the Wars of the Roses with the founding of the Tudor dynasty up to and including the Glorious Revolution.Churchill's use of language is astounding as he is able to draw the reader into the various scenes with portrayals of various personages that stay with one even over dozens of pages. I for one am always moved by Churchill's account of the English Civil War culminating in the regicide of Charles I.This is quite a packed volume and it is quite easy to get immersed within it.
Just finished this read thanks to the Arapahoe Library District and the online card catalogue . . . and Prospector. I am ridiculed by the librarians for ordering antiques and expecting them in within days of my request. C'est la vie.Also, a good read!Due to the civil war, War of the Roses, etc., the book winds its way through a more confusing history of England than I received in high school. Good - but thank God for the charts.
I had assumed that this volume (which is the only volume I have of the series) would be mainly about the colonization of America. It turned out, however, to be almost entirely about Britain, from Henry VIII to James (the second? I think?). Anyway, I now know far more about British history than I did before and, while it's dry in places, I feel like it was a comprehensive and well presented history.
Another volume of Churchill's excellent, four-volume history. This one takes through the end of the monarchy (Charles I), the terrible Cromwell era, and The Restoration (Charles II). Now, Churchill has left me hanging as William of Orange readies his forces in the Low Countries. I cannot wait for Volume Three!
