https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/406776.The_Price_of_Glory
As we talked, we hit upon the idea of a One-Hundred-Years-Ago-Tonight party that would celebrate the fashions, foods, drinks and dress of people who walked and lived this day a century before.
Alistair Horne’s The Price of Glory, about the infamous battle of Verdun, marks the point at which I start to narrow my reading, focusing on specific details.
This is a bird’s eye look at Verdun, presenting the biggest picture possible while often swooping in low for a detailed look at a person or situation.Horne pays close attention to the generals, of whom he creates some indelible portraits.
This results in a lot of impressive first-person testimony of the nasty, close-in fighting among the French fortresses surrounding Verdun.
All you had to do was wait until your turn in the front-line trenches, and then endure as much shelling as you could before you were eviscerated.This perhaps sounds like some grimly comic exaggeration, but in fact the French commanders were quite explicit about the pointless deaths they expected from their men.
It was Verdun that convinced French commanders of the vital necessity of strong forts, leading to their later over-dependence on the Maginot Line; indeed, ‘more than any isolated event of the First War, Verdun led to France's defeat in 1940’.
Mr. Horne looks at the battle from all levels, from the poor infantry soldier in mud to the highest general in his chateau.
Of all the major French commanders, Petain comes off the best.
He looks at how the French defeat in the Franco-Prussian war affected the development of the army's culture and tactics.
The story of the poor infantry soldiers, both German and French, is in my opinion the best part of this work.
It is so difficult to imagine, after these idyllic impressions have taken hold, a century ago the sound of artillery echoing over these same places like the mad beating of muffled drums, or the thought that farther eastward, on the other side of the Meuse, French observers watched as these same style of church spires, usually visible along the horizon, disappeared morning by morning (they were leveled so the Allied guns had fewer sighting points), and that this lush, verdurous landscape that I experienced was at one time long ago so immolated that one aerial observer compared it to the “humid skin of a monstrous toad”.The particular tragedy of WWI, and holocausts like those that occurred at Verdun and the Somme, is the fact of their being wars not of men against men, but as is so often reiterated in this book, of men against material.
Take this humdrum little factoid: a quarter of a million men died in the Battle of Verdun.
Wounded, he displayed violent bad temper in hospital; shook Paris by his wild debauches on convalescent leave; and finally ended the war in a mental home, suffering from chronic depression into which he had sunk after the death of his brother.
But let me say that if you have any desire to understand the series of collective psychotic episodes known as twentieth-century history, you could do worse than to start at Verdun.
Horne shows you the sadness and helplessness behind the old cliche, 'generals are always fighting the last war.' The French army is bottled up and surrounded in fortress towns like Sedan and Metz by the Prussians in 1870--so in the years between then and 1914 a mindlessly aggressive, chauvanistic faith in the holiness of attack, and a contempt for fortifications or defense or even tactical retreat, holds sway among the French officer class--and you can guess how successful those ideas were against machine guns and massed artillery, once WWI started.
Of course, for the German front-line soldiers, the goal was to take Verdun—not just to attack it and force the French to defend it—so the early months of the battle consisted of German breakthroughs that never got as far as they could have, because Falkenhayn wouldn’t provide enough troops to exploit front-line successes.
Naturally the Germans quickly adapted, so the rolling barrage technique didn’t work the next year and stalemate returned to the trenches.Horne concentrated on the leadership at Verdun, but included information on the grunts involved in some of the heavy fighting, especially that surrounding the forts.
In the author’s words “Verdun was the First World War in microcosm; an intensification of all its horrors and glories, courage and futility.”This book is considered a classic for a reason. Well written, at times almost poetic, this does a good job of retelling the battle of Verdun, using witness accounts from both sides, from the lowest to highest levels, and also locating it within the wider context of WW1 and WW2. Just a couple of niggles - the author’s continual quoting of untranslated French annoyed me, and the maps were too few and poor.
This is a searing account of the battle of Verdun.
The relentlessness and remorselessness of battle are illustrated in this book.
The battle - meaning the killings, became self-perpetuating.
The Germans introduced phosgene gas to increase the attrition.As the author suggests Verdun may be a reason for the French collapse in 1940.
The Verdun battlefield was small and concentrated and the duration was long.
The entire area was constantly being shredded by artillery.The only objection I have is that the author analyzes characters too much by facial features, like Falkenhayn.
This is a classical piece of military history, well written and presented. This would be the best book that you'll find covering the terrible slaughter that is known as 'Verdun' during WWI. The author is one of the best English authors who covers French history and he writes his stories well. Take the time to read this book you wont be disappointed!
What makes Verdun even more tragic is the idea that the British Army needed to take some of the pressure off the French by attacking on the Somme, and more men died.One more thing about this book's title; it says so much in a few words. What a price the soldiers and the world paid.
A comprehensive, well-written history of one of the First World War's most bloodiest battles, which raged from February to December 1916. Codenamed 'Unternehmen Gericht' (Operation Judgment), Germany attacked the fortress town of Verdun in its bid to break the backbone of the French Army and so demoralize France that it would feel compelled to sue for peace.
An excellent book on an absolutely horrible subject. How many more? Even so, come quickly Lord Jesus.
After reading "The Fall of Paris" earlier this year I was keen to follow up with this second part of Alistair Horne's trilogy about the Franco-German conflicts of 1870 - 1940.
Obviously no mere book can convey the horrors of war, but this one will leave you wondering how on earth human beings could have withstood being caught in the maelstrom of Verdun.Broadly speaking I had known the events and outcome of the battle before reading the book, though I had not realised just how close the French had come to disaster on more than one occasion.
Crucially, he concludes that the French and German armies drew opposite conclusions, and that those conclusions decided the outcome in 1940.
When I first started reading this book for my college history class, I thought "Oh. This is another boring, dry history book.". I was so wrong. Alistair Horne paints a picture of the worst battle in World War One, and also as some people say the worst battle in history, with amazing detail, and compassion. "The Price of Glory" is a book that everyone should read, to fully understand the unnecessary horror and terrible pain that went on in the Battle of Verdun, and also in World War One as a whole.
Alistair Horne's detailed history of the nearly year-long battle of Verdun is both exhaustive and human in its detail -- much like his A Savage War of Peace: Algeria, 1954-1962 which I read and very much liked last year.
Horne's work is a useful corrective to a number of pop-history assumptions, both about how the Great War was fought and about the importance of martial glory in French self-understanding.

Excellent read on one of WWI's major battles. The author captures both the epic scale of the battle as well as the horrible conditions for the individual soldier. There is also an afterword as well as an epilogue to illustrate the impact that the the battle and key players had on the Second World War. Fascinating.For me, the only draw back was that while the author provides several quotes in French, he does not provide an interpretation.Recommended for those interested in either the First World War or the brutality of the conflict.
Huh!
I had never read a complete story about war when I first read this book in mid 2000.
I shall never forget the name of the man who wrote this book.
Its simply one of the very best books I ever read.
It revealed to me that even though the weapons used in the World War I were not as lethal as what we saw in the next war, still the ferocity was maddening.
That infamous standoff at Verdun between the arnies of France and Germany will remain one of the greyyest description of war in my mind.
The one man I shall never forget here is the meticulous General Petain.
Good book on the Verdun campaign. Very compelling read. It left me angry at the arrogance and blindness of British and French military leaders. Horne gives both sides of the story, and his German vignettes are compelling.
Excellent book about a horrible event. It is difficult to imagine that one battle claimed 700,000 casualties.
The humiliation of the Franco-Prussian war that drove France to defend Verdun to the last man, the doctrine of relentless attack adopted by the French high command, the desire of German commander Falkenhayn to "bleed white" the French army at just this point on the Western Front -- all this conspired to make this battle into a conflict that Horne likens to two mountain goats, horns hopelessly tangled, doomed to struggle to the death.The tragedy was compounded by inept and indecisive commanders, insufficient planning for supply and communications routes, and the reliance of the French on the line of forts around Verdun to withstand everything the Germans could throw at them and protect the city (this would come back to haunt them in 1940, as we know).
Koska vuosi sitten en oikein tiennyt mitään Ensimmäisestä Maailmansodasta, päätin lukea aiheesta kolme kirjaa.
Tämä on niistä toinen, ensimmäinen oli Elokuun Tykit, joka kertoi sodan ensimmäisen kuukauden tapahtumat.
Ja sellainen tämä taistelu oli.
Taistelutantereella esiteltiin uusia aseita (mm.
Kuvaavaa oli, että ranskalainen kenraali Petain, joka oli hetkellisesti ranskalaisten rintamalinjan ylipäällikkönä, taistelun jälkeen sai lähinnä pilkkaa kohdakseen ja ura kääntyi laskuun, vaikka hänen ansiostaan tuhannet sotamiehet jäivät henkiin.Kirjasta ei välity tuoksu ja voi olla vaikea käsittää, että Verdunin kaupungin ympärillä haisi mätänevä liha vielä seuraavan vuoden kesänä.
Taidan lukea viimeisen kirjan aiheesta liittyen lähinnä politiikkaan - ennen ja jälkeen.
This is a fantastic history of the battle of Verdun.
Alistair Horne is exceptional at contextualizing the battle in it's place in WWI and it's aftereffects on the German and French mindset leading into WWII.
My only complaint is that he doesn't translate any of his French quotes!
The book is littered with them and he just drops them in there, forcing you to go to the internet and google translate them!
A super minor quibble but I think he does it in all his books, it takes you out of the flow to have to pull out your phone and look up a translation.
I first read this book when I was in High School, and after 40 years I still find new ideas to consider.
The Author is not a Scholar, but that does not distract from his account of France's National Martyrdom.
Filled with character sketches as well as a battle history.
The book has withstood the test of the changing historiography surrounding the Great War. Horne's insights into the impact of the battle on French society remain trenchant and relevant.
Without the Victory of Verdun, France does not win the War, and without the price of that Victory Hitler does not March into Paris in 1940.
This is a deceptively thin book that took me nearly two months to read.
Perhaps because I needed to return to check maps look at photos of the soldiers in the narratives and read paragraphs outloud to anyone who would sit still long enough.
The mind boggling carnage of World War I is captured and the lessons of war learned in WW I and so eagerly applied in WWII are captured so well in the story of this battle, as is the unbelievable power of a handful of men with serious personality defects.
I wish this was required reading in high schools.
Let's just say I'm not a huge history buff...
I was headed to France with a history major and he wanted to visit Verdun.
Yet, I couldn't tell you the first thing about it.
He recommended this book before we went and I was glad he did.
It really put things into perspective while I was there.
It's been over six months since I read the book, but wow - what these men went through is insane.
This book is very well put together.
And if you ever plan to visit the forts, you should definitely grab this book before you go!
This is a fascinating book about an almost-forgotten but pivotal battle of World War 1. It is told mostly from the French perspective, and is exhaustively researched and stirringly written. I won't try to convey the impressions that this book provokes, but between this and "Poilu" (written by a foot soldier in the French army of the time) give the reader an in-depth picture of one of the great insanities of modern civilization...
Detailed look at the horrific World War I battle. Prose can be a bit difficult at first, but becomes easier over time. Great look at the battle from the solder's perspective, with less passage of time at the time of publication than more recent World War I histories.
The Battle of Verdun was arguably the most godawful event in military history, taking place between February and December 1916 in World War I. First published in 1962, this remains a classic account of what happened and its consequences.
