https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/164723.Diagnostic_and_Statistical_Manual_of_Mental_Disorders_DSM_IV_TR
"Oh, you mean the DSM-IV-TR also known as the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-Fourth Edition Revised." Maslow and Ashley were interested but I noticed Fanci had fallen asleep by the time I got to "Statistical".
But I've used it so much that it feels like I've read the entire book.""Do you mean I can use this book to analyze Ashley and Fanci?"Well, I wouldn't recommend you do that but...""Or analyze you?""Well..""Is there an Internet Addiction Disorder?""Not Yet, but it is being considered for the fifth edition.""So now you're normal but you might be neurotic next year?"Now I was starting to get nervous.
I feel the need to use the DSM to psychoanalyze the reviewers of this book.
It seems like people are personally offended by the existence of the DSM.
There are many crazy therapists out there who would be diagnosing people with the most outlandish things possible if there weren't some guidelines in place.
Everything--including mental illness--has to have some language associated with it to better allow people to talk about it and address problems.
What people chose to do with the labels within the DSM is the bigger problem.
know your enemy
In my experience, seasoned, sensitive, forward-thinking clinicians - the ones mostly interested in, like, helping people with their problems and, like, listening without judgment - claim to be kinda down on the DSM.
It's an insurance company handbook, they say.
It's a pharmaceutical company catalog.
Personally, I'd like to see another Personality Disorder or two in DSM-V.
Granted I'm less interested in using the DSM to diagnose clients as I am in using it to diagnose friends, family, acquaintances, and strangers in the supermarket for my own personal amusement.
I gave it 5 stars just to be a dick. But really! It's just a fucking book. Relax already. I know managed care sucks. But try to imagine what the fields of psychiatry and clinical psychology were like before diagnostic criteria and strict licensure standards. Running with scissors anyone? P.S. check out Nicole's review. She has read it "front to back several times"?Wow! That's hard core. I love nerding out on this stuff as much as the next guy, but dangalang, reading (and re-reading) a reference manual? Cover to cover? Its like 900 pages. Why would anyone willingly do that?
i learned that it is possible to diagnose friends, loved ones, and myself with many disorders. I also learned that it is probable that there's nothing wrong with any of us. Still waiting for the DSM to focus on what's right!
This is a diagnostic manual used to diagnose mental disorders.
To see that its mental disorders say more about the diagnosticians than the so-called patients that they are diagnosing.
Except for a handful of the mental disorders in the DSM (e.g., schizophrenia) which may some day be more clearly understood as brain disorders, most of the diagnoses in this manual are social constructions.
The DSM, itself, points out that its manual does not diagnose people but, rather, conditions.
Mental health counseling is not like drawing blood for a medical test.
I am not a believer is DSM manuals. Each one of us is unique; no one comes with bullet points.
DSM IV is the latest installment of a series that has captured the hearts of readers. Brimming with erotic excitement and plot turns that keep you guessing until the last page, this is an instant classic for fans of the statistical-diagnostic-spy-thriller genre.
Bottom line, this is a diagnostic manual used to diagnose mental disorders, which in my opinion cannot be measured and is largely affected, or I should say "manipulated," by various variables such as the interviewee's culture background, ethnicity, communication, perception, in the moment emotions, etc, to name a few and the interviewer's interviewing skills, cultural sensitivity, personal bias and ingrained assumptions, etc, to name a few.
What a person presents is their "symptoms," as DSM-VI would call it; what a person doesn't tell is their "story," a story that needs to be heard.
For some reason, I thought I'd be the only nerd to put this on his list. It's a great reference, and handy to have for any psychology major or for any reference geek. It's pretty easy to find what you need. It's well organized, and very informative. The DSM books are also regularly updated, which is good because you get the most current information on psychological disorders.
Of course I didn't read the whole thing! C'mon!I have read a lot of it though.
If you keep this on your coffee table, it will certainly freak out your friends and family. It can also be used to liven up dull cocktail parties.
Seligman noted that psychologists had created an enormous manual, known as the “DSM” (the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders), to diagnose every possible mental illness and behavioral annoyance, but psychology didn't even have a language with which to talk about the upper reaches of human health, talent, and possibility.The Happiness Hypothesis Pág.167
I used to be very anti-label, but after going back to school for social work and working as a counselor at a methadone clinic I have reversed my opinion of this very critical reference book.
Unfortunately, and far too often, the nature of this book gets abused, and at times certainly those who are responsible for its compilation have hurt their own cause with regard to at-large social understanding.
If I have one major critique, it is that...the only focus is on what's "wrong", its assumed everyone knows whats "right"...which is a very dangerous assumption to make as we turn into a global society and cultures combine and collide.
The lack of strength based approached here is seriously lacking.
It is too tightly restrictioned to ridged normative culture, rather than using a scale.
This is self evident and clearly displayed in its autistic, and bipolar sections.
Deficit based thinking plagues these pages in a strict manner that only serves to label one as sick and pathological.
This is not very constructive given cbt, solution focused, etc models.
There is a real lack of attention on subjective client interpretation as well as scant issues focusing on person in environmental as well as ecosystem contributions.
This is the encyclopedia of mental disorders. I am finally a grad student, studying to get a Master's of Social Work and the DSM IV TR is a center piece to clinical social work. To be quite honest, I hate it thus far. Not because it is somewhat difficult to use, but because I battle with the concept of diagnosing people and the speed at which our society diagnosis and "treats" mental issues. My primary battle enemy: ADHD diagnosis in kids.
Having spent years within the covers of this book, I really appreciate the reviews of the Humorists and the Social/Anthropological readers. When the computer with emails began to proliferate in offices and homes, I began to wonder how long it would be before there was a diagnosis for "Information Overload Disorder."
In my humble, non-professionals opinion, a lot of really sketchy "disorders" made their way into these pages. (Body Dysomorphic Disorder, AKA, "Broken Mirror Syndrome"? Please.)
This book is a political document. As science, it is a fraud.
Loved this book! Very educational and informative. Now reading the DSM V, which is an updated version based on newest research!! I am using the DSM V for the research base for my new book.
what can I say. The Bible.
Interesting, but can't wait to read about spectrum approach instead of this books categorical approach.
My bible.
I remember my fascination with the intrigue and allure of the human psyche when I started my medical studies.
I engulfed my neuro and psych courses in the pre-clinical years.
The neuro syndromes and the ways neurological disorders could present fascinated me (they still do).
Then, I started my clinical rotations; making sure psychiatry was first.
There was no interest into what was causing the person's illness, but rather only into what could be immediately done.
This book makes "professionals" feel like they have the upper hand on the human spirit.
They want sterility and this book makes them feel clean.
As of March 2008, the most current edition of the primary reference for psychology and psychiatry, used to diagnose mental health problems and form the basis for treatment planning.
Although this approach is subject to valid criticisms, e.g. its bias toward Western cultural norms and the tendency of too many in the mental health field to ignore anything that is not captured by its definitions, it represents a big step forward beyond the vague and subjective (or moralistic and judgmental) attempts to understand psychological problems found in most work in this area before the first DSM was published.
I understand that providing diagnoses are a way to help people have services covered that they want and/or need by insurance companies.
On the other hand, labeling human beings can be dangerous and destructive.
The DSM, built on the medical model of disease, pathologizes human beings based on abnormality.
However, I think the DSM in general over pathologizes human behavior.
Until 1973, the DSM II categorized homosexuality as a mental disorder and there are similar mistakes in thinking in the current DSM-5.
I'm more in favor of viewing people through a growth model in therapy vs.
the disease model.
First time I stepped my feet on my faculty's library, I was instantly drowning in clinical section.
My goal on studying Psychology is to be a clinical psychologist, thus my intention on clinical books.
DSM-IV is a manual for every clinical problem in psychology and I found myself totally absorbed in this one.As a manual should, this book contains informations in a scientific way, which would make many people bored least they're trully curious about mental illness--like me.
But this book could be the first impression of mental illnesses before you search for the more laid-back explanation in other books.I still read it over and over though.

I'm currently suspecting some people I knew as having certain kind of personality disorders.
And so I read this book from the beginning till the end.
This book is pretty much scientific, but the interest of mental disorders keep me to read this book.
And overall, the experience reading this is completely nice.
I also found some of the personality disorders match up with some people I knew.
Other thing that I am interested to is ASPD (Anti-Social Personality Disorder) but, they didn't name it as psychopathy.
But this gonna change in the DSM-V.The most entertaining scientific book ever!
