https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/689929.The_Valley_of_Adventure
This might be one of my favourite Enid Blyton books.
It's sheer magic!Jack, Philip, Dinah and Lucy-Ann (not to mention Kiki) are all set to go on a plane trip to their friend, secret agent Bill Cunningham's house for a few days.
But a mix-up sees them boarding the wrong plane and falling headlong into another adventure - this time in a beautiful, abandoned, war-torn valley - involving a couple of escaped prisoners, a secret cave, a hostage, a daring rescue mission, a map and lost treasure!Seriously, who can come up with something like that AND make it believable?
They don't make authors like Enid Blyton anymore.
Horor kalo terjebak di pulau asing...
Membaca kembali Enid Blyton bagi saya adalah soal menyalakan kembali mesin waktu ke masa lalu. Hanya itu
gelandet waren und wie es ausging...Aus heutiger Sicht finde ich den (Schreib-)Stil leider schlimm.
Es werden am laufenden Band Urängste (Verhungern, Verdursten, Verlassen werden) verwendet, ausgiebig Stereotypen genutzt und eine Person ist entweder gut, weil sie hilft oder böse weil sie raucht, schwarze Haare hat oder einfach nur böse schaut.Daher: Gut für mich, dass ich das Buch nach all den Jahren doch noch (zu Ende) gelesen haben, aber ähnlich wie die ersten Bände von Tintin definitiv nichts für Kinder ohne eine kritische Erläuterung.
Alles in allem eher aus der Zeit gefallen, was für‘s Archiv und müsste echt nicht mehr verkauft werden...
Το πιο αγαπημένο βιβλίο της παιδικής μου ηλικίας. Το είχα διαβάσει δεκάδες φορές (όπως και όλη τη σειρά βέβαια) και άλλες τόσες στην μικρή μου αδερφή. Έχουμε ταξιδέψει με τη Μπλάιτον σε κόσμους γεμάτους περιπέτειες, πολλή αγωνία και τη μαγεία του να κολυμπάς στη θάλασσα της φαντασίας...
It has a rapid start with Jack, Phillip, Lucy Ann and Dinah finding themselves marooned in a strange valley in the middle of nowhere with criminal elements for company.
Of course, Jack also finds a hen towards the end of the story.
The children love the hen so much and fear the criminals don’t kill and eat it.
So this works really well.I have seen it mentioned somewhere that Enid Blyton usually does not mention the war much in her books and also usually does not clearly specify the time the stories are set in.
The books had been passed down from my mom, who had also loved them.
I was anticipating that re-reading this one as a 40-something would be a disappointing experience but it was totally the opposite.
I got completely sucked in and read it through in one sitting.
Pretty much all of the secondary characters are big stereotypes - the bad guys have "thick necks", Bill is kind of an all purpose hero - but that's okay because the story is really about the children.
I can totally see why these stories were my favorites: they combine a lack parental guidance and kid power with a talking parrot.
This is such a good book!!!
I really enjoyed how much action and suspense there was.
In my opinion, the Valley of Adventure has always been the best in the Adventure series.
Enid uses an amazing style of writing.
I believe that this book, although wrote many years ago, is still very good for adventure loving kids of today.
Any kid that loves adventures and mysteries would love this, and it's a good way to get them off video games.
The characters are packed with character.
This series to this day is the only series that has made me laugh out loud.
I cannot say enough good things about this book.
The only reason you would have to not want to read is if you were interested in reading the previous 2 books in the series.
Because you should read those first.
I read this with my 10 year old.
This one set in a mystery valley accessible only by plane.
I can picture this valley now, waterfall and all.
As soon as we were done with this book we dove right into the next one.
Can't wait to see a new Adventure unfold and a new mystery solved.
When I started reading this book, I thought this was a book that I had not read. But as the story progressed, I started having this feeling about having read this story. Especially the caves part of the story looked familiar. I am still not sure if I have read this book earlier. Anyway, it was a great read. One of the best books written by Enid Blyton. As awesome as her Famous Five books are. It was suspenseful and adventurous. Can't wait to read all the books in this series soon!
A rollicking adventure. The Kiki bits have my children cackling but be warned this is darker than some of the other Enid Blyton books. The children are trapped in a valley with some nasty men who are after Nazi treasure. A prisoner (not the children) is hit by the gang and starved. Jack himself is in a physical fight with a man and also ties an unconscious man to a tree and abandons him. I did not like this as much as her others but Kiki is as always great.
I liked this book very much as a children;s book--it was exciting, adventurous and engaging, a page turner. Four children and a parrot are accidentally whisked away in the wrong plane to a deserted valley by bad guys who intend to steal treasure stolen from churches and villages by the Nazis and hidden away in caves.
Oh my god, IT WAS SO EXCITING! *flails madly* Why did I not read this series when I was younger? Why did I not even know about it until Alex gave me the books? Oh well, more excitement for now I guess. ;) I'm reading through the whole lot and I have five left now, and four of those are new to me. :D
This is the best one in the series so far....the best adventure!
Very exciting children's story. Brings back lots of fond memories too.
O meu livro favorito em criança.Uma aventura espectacular, digna de um filme.
I still keep my original copy of The Valley of Adventure, now browned and aged but still in pristine condition.
When I was reading this as a child, I had not known that Enid Blyton was referring to the paintings, jewels, religious statues, books - treasure that people took from churches, libraries and museums and kept them hidden away so the Nazis wouldn't loot them all.
After the war, some people died, some of the hidden places were bombed and the treasure remains hidden...It was such a classic adventure.
A perfect cosy read for readers of any age who likes adventures.
I know, starting on book 3 of the series.
I figured it was a kid's book, so I could probably pick up all the character development.
(Although starting here certainly makes their policeman friend seem *extremely creepy*.)But he barely appears.
A good adventure book, the sort I would've loved at that age and found pleasant enough now.
Extremely resourceful kids of both genders.
(Although at my age, I found myself wondering about how they solved potty problems.) I also couldn't quite get a handle on their location; I eventually decided they must be British, but that took me quite a way into the book.
The third Adventure book puts the children in a particularly thrilling situation.
About to go on a trip with Bill, they get by mistake into the plane a group of crooks are using, and are taken to an isolated and uninhabited valley in the Alps, with breathtaking scenery and ruins of burned old buildings.
The children have to hide from them, obtain food and shelter and try to escape the valley.
The story really captures the imagination of children and of anyone who can suspend disbelief and just enjoy the innocent adventure.
As a child I read this book and it always stayed with me as one of the best books I read.
I could remember the cave where the children hide vividly and on second reading as an adult it didn’t disappoint!
The story is surprisingly believable and you can see where Enid Blyton got her inspiration from.
I loved this story on second reading and I am looking forward to reading more of the adventure series.
I am unable to remember whether I read the other books in the series as a child so I am looking forward to reading the remains adventures books.
Such fun! Better than the Famous Five books because the Famous Five sometimes come across as obnoxious. Philip, Jack, Lucy-Ann and Dinah are resourceful, level-headed and kind. And Kiki the parrot is hilarious. All the excitement of a thriller but without any scary bits. Great fun.
Seikkailu-sarja on mielestäni parasta Blytonia ja tämä muistaakseni sarjan paras osa.
You can say that all her characters are stereotypical and similar: the kind mother figure, the 'cross old uncle', the brave boy (or two) who always has a rope round his waist and his 'field glasses' round his neck, the timid little girl who gets frightened when the villains approach (of course, I omit the brilliant George).
And I don't know, the books just seem like more dramatic and interesting adventures.My little brother is 8 and loves the Famous Five.
By reading this book to my little brother, I have renewed my love of Enid Blyton and (hopefully) thoroughly entertained him.
I loved reading it as a child, before I turned all snooty and started caring about things like plot contrivances and plot and character inconsistencies.
The situation is probably a little more contrived than that in The Castle of Adventure (Adventure Series, #2), where it went on my list of imperfections, but this time the story is so gripping and so atmospheric that I just don't care.Also in its favour, this book has some interesting things for the girls to do and for almost the entire time, Bill isn't there to annoy me.
Isn't she clever!
Jack, Lucy-Ann, Philip, Dinah and Kiki are off on another adventure this time they begin with a trip in an aeroplane with their friend Bill but soon matters take a dramatic turn when they become trapped in a remote valley.
But they aren't ones to sit around before long they are in the midst more intrigue which involves perilous risks, but that doesn't stop Jack, Lucy-Ann, Philip, Dinah and Kiki.Another fun adventure and Enid Blyton freshens the story so it in no way feels repetitive.
Great description of the surroundings and a real sense of pace gallop the story along.
This adventure story is extremely exciting and perilous.
Fans of Jack will enjoy his tussle with a South American heavy and subsequent capture of all the bad guys.
Even Dinah and Lucy-Ann get to fool the baddies by taking off their clothes and capering about, thus saving the boys from imminent capture.This and The Castle of Adventure are definitely Enid Blyton's two greatest works in my opinion.
I've first read this as a child and don't know how often I actually re-read this.
It is my favourite book of Enid Blyton's, including some of the most appealing settings I've ever read about.
Seriously, reading the summary, this book sounds weird.
But reading the book, suddenly the summary sounds weird, not truly captivating the book's essence, the magnificience of how Enid Blyton managed to paint those characters and create a plot around them.It has been a while since my last read, but I remember having a little trouble with the resolution of the storyline, so I decided to rate it with four stars.

Barnen som boken handlar om är fångna i en dal med höga berg omkring och kan inte ta sig ur. Samtidigt upptäcker de ett par män i dalen och tvingas gömma sig för dem i en grotta med all sin packning som de har med sig och sin lite småjobbiga peppegoja.Jag tycker att denna boken är bra eftersom jag tycker att den är spännande nästan hela boken igenom samtidigt som det är roligt att det är barn som är fångna och man får följa eftersom vuxna oftast inte har lika roliga och spännande idéer som barn har.
Enid Blyton is an amazing childrens author, bestselling in the world. Although almost undiscovered by Americans.This series (The Adventure Series is 8 books long) Features 4 friends who fall into adventures with counterfeiters, gunrunners, treasure hunters and the like. Jack, Philip, Diana, and Lucy-Anne and their crazy talking parrot, KIKI, are a lot of fun to follow through their adventures... This series is top notch reading... introduce your children to Enid Blyton today!
