https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251966.The_Velvet_Promise
She ends up pregnant and risks her life and the life of her unborn child to save him, going to the house of some psycho weirdo that holds him hostage.The hero thinks that the heroine and the weirdo are lovers and that the child she is carrying is not his.He treats her badly, once again but as he desires her body, that's ok.Then, I don't know why, he decides that he loves his wife and doesn't care about the blonde slut.
Blonde slut plots to destroy the poor heroine and she ends up losing her unborn child!At this point, I'm completely out of my mind!
Granted, the overall story is elaborate and entertaining to read but I really wanted to bash the ASSHOLE HERO with a brick.
No matter how much I adore Gavin’s other brothers, Gavin himself needs to be tar-and-feathered before I’ll consider forgiving him for treating Judith the way he does here.
The series as a whole is fantastic; it's just too bad that in order to read the other brothers' books, you need to suffer through Gavin's assholery.
I refuse to finish reading ANY story that involves rape, abuse, or involuntary sexual servitude by the "so called hero" as an erotic act. Even if you have a physical reaction to the abuse, the emotional damage that results is something you never get over. You do not fall in love with your rapist, and you certainly cannot have a healthy relationship with your rapist, and suggesting otherwise is demeaning to sexual abuse victims AND irresponsible.
I would have loved this book had I not wanted to murder the hero. Gavin Montgomery should be tied to two tons of bricks and dropped off a very high cliff.
(view spoiler)[He slaps the heroine at the beginning of the book and rapes her on their wedding night.
He acts like a class A jerk a lot of the time because he's very jealous (Judith is extremely beautiful and every man who sees her wants her).
Then he ends up raping Judith that night because she won't just 'get over it already' and go back to being the warm, attentive wife she was before she witnessed that scene with Alice.
I wanted to scream and shout at Gavin for being so dense and stupid, he was not deserving of Judith. Perhaps I was suppose to swoon over this “love story” but I hated the back and forth between them.
She must look, touch, feel and read……and that was Stacey’s first introduction to sexy books and the beginning of her love of historical romance.Wow, I can’t believe that was 28 years ago.
My love for Jude Deveraux and Julie Garwood started with that discount book bin.The Velvet Series was one of my most re-read historical romance series when I was younger.
Especially considering the insipid, simpering, nasty Alice was not a woman worthy of love.Anyways, Judith, well she’s the kind of heroine that every historical romance heroine should aspire to be.
I've heard much about this author and being a lover of historical romances I'm not sure how I've not read anything by her before, needless to say this is my first and last book by her.Gavin Montgomery is in love with Alice Valence their secret meetings cannot go on, marriage is what he wants to the beautiful and doe eyed Alice.
Judith confronts him, but all she gets for her trouble is a backhander and to be forced on her wedding night.My goodness this book is awful.
After doing a re-read, I'm sorry to find The Velvet Promise didn't quite make my original 5 star rating.
There were aspects of the heroe's thoughts and actions that took away from my enjoyment.
All in all, still an enjoyable medieval romance featuring four Montgomery Brothers with the spotlight on the oldest brother, Gavin, and his new bride, Judith.
The version for my re-read was a re-issue in 1991 and includes (view spoiler)[a scene of forced sex on the wedding night.
(hide spoiler)]Deveraux's Montgomery men are some of my favorite heroes and her books have provided many pleasurable hours of escapism.
Which I know for the formula you have to have something that causes a riff and a way for them to come back together but I'm never a fan of it being another woman.
Then, back to the rape thing, I know he was suckered by the other woman and didn't really know about the "bedding of a virgin" but really - rather she is a virgin or not it's not ok to rape her.
And the rape isn't an assumption on my part, it's talked about in the book by both characters and they never resolve it w/a discussion or anything.
How can anyone live happily ever after w/a man who raped her?
Wow! so much drama and angst! Don't read this if you hate cruel heroes. Hero slaps and rapes heroine, his ex lover is a slut who kills heroine's unborn baby and she is determined to ruin their marriage along with other villains. I adored all the angst and passion but sadly the ending was way too abrupt!
Bu yorum aynı zamanda Romancekolikte yayınlanmıştır.This review also shared in Romansholic.English Review;Story begun with besotted hero knowing his lover soon to be marry. That shrew girl is like an actress and fool him that she marry by force. Our besotted hero believes her. But he asked for a marriage an earl daughter. So hero accept. He think with him marrying too he could accept the fact his lover soon to be marry. Wedding took place and our hero was surprised to see such a lovely wife he
Bu yorum aynı zamanda Romancekolikte yayınlanmıştır.This review also shared in Romansholic.English Review;Story begun with besotted hero knowing his lover soon to be marry.
Oğlanımız bunu öğrenince kızıyor ama kız öyle bir oynuyor ki of adam karşısında duramıyor.
Neler neler.Efenim oğlanımız gerçeği ne kadar erken kabul edersem o kadar iyi diye düşünerek ona teklif edilen kızla evlenmeyi kabul ediyor ama ta ki evleneceği güne kadar kızı görmüyor.
Kızımız ertesi gün gizlice kocasını görmeye çalışır ama biri kimliğini tanımış ve hemen vekile haber vermiştir.
Kızımız çıldırmış gibi hareket eder ama kötü adam uslu olmasını yoksa değerli kocasının bunu canıyla ödeyeceğini söyler.
I'm having a very hard time digesting the book, it's short, so I thought it was going to be a fun quick read but by chapter 8, the hero has hit, raped, almost cheated on the woman who is supposed to be the love of his life by the end of the book and they only met on their wedding day.Just to keep it realistic, no woman, especially a virgin, can be raped then made love to by the same man no less and feel above the clouds in love with the guy.
I think the female body and mind works differently in intimate moments.
Maybe if I was younger I would have bought this relationship, but I'm not.
I think women should stop writing stories about such men and call them raged and broody, these are tyrants and criminals.
********** 4 Stars ********** First, a little background: I read this book back in high school and loved it to fervent death. It was my first experience with a proper romance (other than Harlequin Presents) and I fell in love with this epic tale involving knights and ladies and all sorts of sprawling medieval goodness. I was in heaven. Jude Deveraux became my hero and I declared romance my favourite genre. I pulled out pencil and paper and began to write my very first novel (which sucked of cou
It was my first experience with a proper romance (other than Harlequin Presents) and I fell in love with this epic tale involving knights and ladies and all sorts of sprawling medieval goodness.
Gavin may be hard to take, but Judith Revedoune, the heroine is mostly a delight to read about (if a bit Mary Sue-ish by the end).
Seriously, too much drama for it to end in the literary equivalent of a deflating balloon.The other Montgomery brothers are delicious and I cannot wait to read their story.
15% DNFI'm weird but not this fucked up. No, thank you.
All of the male protagonists in this series are dicks.
Ok, it was 1501 (the dawn of Renaissance), but still, even if he could not be charged, or if other woman like the maids would be indulgent towards his deed, how would the victim be so willing to experience such brutality again?I mean, this could be a novel on sick people, but it is supposed to be a love story.
He’d raped her once, used the pain of her hair twisted around his arm to command her to him the second time.
3.5 «En su mayoría, los hombres piensan que nada peor puede ocurrirle a una mujer que verse sin la compañía de un hombre.» Reseña: http://miotrarealidadetinta.blogspot....Ps. Sí, lo había leído antes, en 2014 junto con 1000 otros libros similares xD
It has been awhile since I have read a book I couldn't put down and couldn't wait to pick up again to see what happens next!The characters are wonderfully crafted.
he grows up and regrets his rape of her.I loved the dialogue between Judith and Gavin-- so passionate is their love/hate relationship!
Stephen seemed so much more mature than Gavin even though he is younger.
I look forward to reading about them in the next books in the series.In all, this book has made me reconsider my avoidance of Romance novels.
Because it's such a "classic", I really thought about how I feel about this book.
But let me say this: a book that has the lead characters having great sex (and marital rape no less) before the book hit 18%, while the hero was in love with another woman and our heroine fell in and out of love with the hero all within 2 days.
Maybe it is a great story, maybe it is a classic.
And I just read my last page of the book 10 minutes ago.
No,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,no,yes, ha! Threw that one in there to fool you. NO
It's really embarrassing to say this but I think my eyes were heart-shaped as I read this [Haha!].However, for a story to be as effective and really magical and perfect as this, a reader should realize that it is not all the time that we will experience fun and sweetness.
There were really great and disastrous tragedies that happened and I got to tell you that it was so real that you can actually see it happening in front of you.Then again, although it is impossible, I would desperately want to kill Alice with my bare hands.
AGAIN, I am extremely in awe of how great Miss Jude Deveraux really is.
The Velvet Promise is about the Montgomery brothers, 4 in total, and I can see from the way they were characterized I will want to read all of their stories.
Gavin the oldest Montgomery, he feels he is in love with the manipulative Alice, daughter of a poor drunken baron.
Gavin then marries Judith a wealthy heiress who he thinks is going to be hideous, but once he sees her he is awestruck by her beauty.
Alice is green with envy and plots and destroys over and over to ruin Gavin and Judith happiness.
I was so frustrated throughout most of the book and I found myself wishing the hero Gavin would just give the Heroine Judith to his Brother Raine.
Alice’s obsession with Galvin and keeping his love causes so many problems with the newly married Judith and Gavin that their marriage never really gets a fighting chance from the start.
I wish that there had been an epilogue to end the book.
It would have tied things together for me, but since there was not I did not like the ending of the book and how it dropped off.
I liked this book however I could not get myself to like Gavin even a little. Literally. Aside from the love making he was jealous, bullheaded, and irrational. I did not find one redeeming quality in him. I imagine him walking around with a perpetual scowl on his face. Not into this H at all.
Ahora, Gavin no está contento con estas noticias, pero tras conversar con Alice y darse cuenta de que ella no va a negarse al matrimonio, digamos que el mosquito de la venganza lo picó y decide entonces casarse con Judith, a quien nadie jamás ha visto porque estaba destinada a vivir como monja.
Como Judith había estado destinada a grandes cosas salvo ser el juguete de un hombre, no está contenta con la idea de matrimonio, pero su padre la obliga y no le queda otra opción.
Y menos cuando Gavin se rehusó una y otra vez a creer que Alice no era la arpía que siempre fue.
She pulls you right into her story effortlessly, introducing several characters, like the Montgomery brothers, and you get to know them and care about them pretty quickly.
I like the fact that she had ambitious plans to be an abbess, although I think Deveraux probably should have made her a little bit more religious if that was what the character wanted.
He has no idea how to talk Judith, and I think the rape after the wedding was oddly out of character for him, because deep down he’s a gentle guy.
Jude Deveraux knows how to write an interesting story, likeable characters that are flawed, and fun dialogue.
gavin was madly in love wid his mistress, alice.
he still wud not hear bad of her.
was it her fault alice did not want 2 marry him !?
1.alice did not wish 2 marry him bcoz he was poor 2.
he chose 2 marry judith 4 her wealth, he was not forced.
he beat her bcoz she called alice a whore, he later raped her dat same night.
when he was taken captive by an insane man, judith risked her life 2 save him.
how judith ever fell in love wid some1 so selfish, mean n brutal.
This book was about a 4.5 for me. I love Jude Deveraux and one thing I noticed from reading this book is that she doesn't pull any punches. She doesn't hold back because she's afraid of making the hero less likable or making the reader shy away. And it actually makes the characters in her book even more likable and relatable. Also loved that the King and Queen were the parents of Henry VIII which would only make a Tudor geek like me squeal with fangirl joy.
My head is gonna blow up with all that drama..and let's not forget that they have sex like rabbits (all of them)..reading this story was like watching Linda and Alexis Carrington in the 80's :) But i still liked it and i'll read the next one too .
