https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/597790.The_Children_of_H_rin
This book puts the M in melodrama. This is a very dark novel, probably the darkest of Tolkien's novels. They should rewrite the synopsis.  The Children of Húrin- for those who can't deal with the sunny optimism of Game of Thrones.  Nothing more needs to be said. (I saw this on a meme once)The five stages of reading The Children of Húrin.1.  2. 3. 4. 5. Not that I'm complaining. This is Tolkien's best work. Yeah, I said it. No, I'm not drunk.
The Children of Hurin is a tragic tale of love and loss, of remorseful earth-shattering revelations; consequently, it is also one of the most moving stories Tolkien ever devised.
The execution never fully delivered it though, only because Tolkien never finished editing it.
It seemed a very odd way to begin things considering Tolkien eventually pulls this story into a traditional narrative and loses this authoritative authorial tone he began the book with.
He is haunted by black magic, his destiny shaped, leading to the tragic ending that befall the children of Hurin.
Throughout the years, I have asked some fans of Tolkien whether it’s absolutely necessary to read (not watch) the main trilogy and The Silmarillion first before attempting the three Great Tales of Middle-Earth.
I’m going to offend them more because I finished this book without reading The Silmarillion or The Lord of the Rings trilogy and I super loved it.
It was really easy for me to feel like I was inside a dark myth of Middle-Earth when I was reading through this book.Picture: Glaurung by Alan LeeI have no idea whether finishing the ‘required’ reading would actually enhance or diminish my reading experience.
In this case, the end of Children of Hurin also marks the end of my quest to read a book by each of my five favorite authors.
This feels like Tolkien’s writing, and if it isn’t exactly what he intended, I have to believe it’s pretty damn close.But what of the story itself?The story of Hurin and his offspring is told as part of the Silmarillion, but not in the detail that Tolkien intended.
In any case, it’s an immensely powerful scene.The text of the book is aided by the wonderful illustrations done by Alan Lee, who has done a lot of Tolkien-related art in the past.
Turin’s tale is steeped in ancient myth and legend and you have, again, crafted a great work, I must admit.Tolkien: Well, thank you Paul …Poul: Poul.Tolkien: Poul, yes, whatever, but I mean, I WISH I could write a fantasy as good as yours.Poul: Do not patronize me, Ronald, OK so you’ve sold more books than me, fine!Ozzy: Feeegh moow, Rawoool!!Tom: You can say that again, Oz!Poul: Ok, ok, I give – Tom how about another craft beer.Tom: Yes sir, here you go try our Radagast Red Ale, you’ll love it, and make sure you all come in next Tuesday night, we’re having our Hobbits in Space night.(all stare at him)Tom: That was Lyn’s idea.Lyn: What?
But anyone thinking that has clearly not read The Children of Hurin.
And I actually knew the story beforehand, because a shortened version of it is present in The Silmarillion.The book chronicles mostly the life of Turin, son of Hurin.
Hurin is taken prisoner and upon him and all his kin Morgoth lays a curse.Turin, his son, grows to be a great warrior, but his life is an unhappy one.
Plus a lot of thoughts and input on the story and its evolution by Christoper, the son of J.R.R. Tolkien.
Narnichin Hurin: The Children of Húrin (Middle-Earth Universe), J.R.R. Tolkien, Christopher Tolkien (Editor), Alan Lee (Illustrator)The Children of Húrin is an epic fantasy novel which forms the completion of a tale by J. R. R. Tolkien. He wrote the original version of the story in the late 1910s, revised it several times later, but did not complete it before his death in 1973. His son, Christopher Tolkien, edited the manuscripts to form a consistent narrative, and published it in 2007 as an ind
‭‭Narnichin Hurin: The Children of Húrin (Middle-Earth Universe), J.R.R. Tolkien, Christopher Tolkien (Editor), Alan Lee (Illustrator)The Children of Húrin is an epic fantasy novel which forms the completion of a tale by J.
The book contains 33 illustrations by Alan Lee, eight of which are full-page and in colour.عنوانها: فرزندان هورین، بچه های هورین، نویسنده: جی.آر.آر.
تالکین؛ مترجم: فرهاد سیدلو؛ تهران، پیام امروز، هستان، 1386، در 256 ص؛ شابک: 9789645706416؛داستان در دوران اول و در سرزمین میانه می‌گذرد و ماجرای هورین تالیون و فرزندان او (تورین تورامبار، و نیه‌ نور) را باز می‌گوید.
I have spent more than twenty years with this story (since my mother first read the Unfinished Tales version aloud to me when I was eight years old), and if Christopher Tolkien had not put this volume together, I might have eventually had the hubris to do so myself.
It is his human choices, not the supernatural force of an evil will, that guide him on his tragic path, and this complex narrative thread is what makes this, to my mind, one of the greatest of all of Tolkien's tales.
This story is so tragically sad I forget it was written by Tolkien.I won't write a summary for the story but I'll write down some things about it that might persuade you to read this amazing book:1.
If you like wise, brave elves who like to fight (a lot) and are good with a sword and a bow, read this!
Evil, fire-breathing monsters that destroy everything in their path, kill half of the characters and torture the main character-check!3.
Always a good reason to ruin your life.4.
Stubborn, flawed, cursed main (anti) hero!
A nice little walk across the Middle Earth west of the Blue Mountains.5.
I can’t deny that Tolkien was master of his craft. However, this book missed the drive and compactness that his other books possessed and I didn’t like it as much as I hoped I would. Was it because this book consists of small parts (scenes) of bigger picture put together after Tolkien’s death by someone else than master himself? Most probably. Either way, this is a must-read for all true fans of Middle-earth!
The Children of Hurin is not a for people who saw the Lord of the Rings movies and then read the book.
The Children of Hurin reads like a Nordic Saga.As a self proclaimed Tolkien Fanatic I enjoyed The Children or Hurin.
It's not more The Lord of the Rings but it continues to paint a more vivid tapestry for the Fellowships stories to play out against.There are a number or jarring transitions in the book.
Hurin is high fantasy and if it were not set in the world of Tolkien's other stories it would be as unaccessible as the Kalevala.
Deriving from the Finnish national epic Kalevala and the tragic Kullervo, The Children of Hurin proves again what Tolkien can do with ancient legends and myths.
I have to confess that I was looking for parallels with Beowulf through most of my readings and found many, only to be informed later about the Finnish origins of the tale.
Goes to show my ignorance as well as how easy it is to mix these things up.Tolkien infuses such grandeur into every story, taking them to almost mythic proportions, it is always thrilling and we just want more and more.
There's so much to say about Tolkien's mastery of language and myth.
But what's important and powerful about CoH is that it stands (stylistically) somewhere in between Silmarillion and LotR.
There are no anachronisms in Silmarillion, which are present in LotR (and the Hobbit, of course).
CoH is blissfully free of them, but is also less "macro" than Sil. CoH treads on solid (Middle) earth, but is not quite as intimate as LotR (E.g., with Frodo & the other hobbits).
This is such a grim tale and setting, with such anguish and personal horror.
This reveals Tolkien's darker view of mythology and the suffering we often endure.
The Children of Hurin provides some great historical material to Tolkien's world of Middle-Earth and adds even more richness to the Lord of the Rings.
This addition to Tolkien's extensive historical background of Middle-earth fills in the gaps and fleshes out stories that have been mentioned and hinted at in other works by giving us a detailed and colorful look at the tragic story surrounding Túrin and Niënor (Hurin's children) and the ongoing battle against Morgoth, the master of the Lord of the Rings' evil character, Sauron.This is a well-told tale with engaging characters and plenty of action that keeps the reader interested throughout.
His world and history building really helped me understand the two more popular books which I already love.
I'm just sorry I didn't reread The Silmarillion first as it has the history for this book.
Call George R.R. Martin a world builder if you like but I'm pretty sure he borrowed a lot of pages from Tolkien.Not only do I see the influence of Norse Sagas I also feel there are a few influences from Shakespeare and foremost comes to mind Romeo and Juliet.
I will say that I don't recommend this for anyone but Tolkien fans.
My brother gave this to me... so now I feel obligated to read it. Hopefully it's better than The Hobbit.
Another first-rate fantasy novel by Tolkien!
Typical fantasy characters drawn from his races-elf, man, dwarf, orc.
Disrespect, curses, doom, and war And a dragonIt has all of the elements necessary for a classic, but I just couldn't connect.
Nothing is The Lord of the RingsBut if i take that out of the picture I must rate this story highly.After listening the second time I think my disconnect is with the Christopher Lee narration.
I've had to repeat segments several times.
If we're sticking with LotR narrators...you know who would have made this boss???
I would love to listen to thatSummer Fantasy Fest read #22
Es un libro maravilloso, pero oscuro, el cual refleja un completo pesimismo con respecto a la condición humana. Esta características es sin duda, entre otras cosas, un reflejo de las vivencias de Tolkien durante la Primera Guerra Mundial.El hombre no es más que un ser aciago, soberbio, condenado a la destrucción, quien sólo trae y siembra desdicha. Nunca lo escuches ni sigas, está perdido... y aún así puede ser glorioso y memorable. Una duplicidad inquietante y dolorosa.5 estrellas: Magnífico.
Don't ask me to name any of the many gods, demons, peoples, and monsters that populated Tolkien's history book of his own fantasy world making. It's confusing and a second read will be necessary, but what I enjoyed were the tales. Following the heroic legends is like listening to a fireside tale told by a grandfather or an intriguing talk by a professor prone to long-windedness. You know it's good stuff and you wish you could stay awake during the endless narrative/lecture, but the old man will drone on...
Soy fanático de J.
Con un trabajo destacado de edición por Christopher Tolkien (a mi parecer menos denso que el Silmarillion), y unas ilustraciones complementarias muy logradas de Alan Lee, Los Hijos de Hurin es ese libro que me regreso a la tierra media en busca de aventuras en compañía de elfos, humanos y enanos, y que cuenta las desventuras de Turin hijo de Hurin el de los muchos nombres, que trata por todos los medios de huir de su terrible destino.
Si eres fanático de J.
Ve, corre a la tierra media en busca de aventuras y no mires atrás.
If you were awed by the fierce magnitude of Smaug, the Dragon, I will point out that Smaug was the offspring of Glaurung, who is probably the prominent villain in this tale.Raised and sent forth by Morgoth (the original master of Sauron) Glaurung encounters Turin, son of Hurin, and we have in detail one of the greater stories from the epic collection contained in The Silmarillion.
As a stand alone book this would be a good story, though a little confusing without knowing the history referenced throughout the tale, but for a LOTR fan I would highly recommend The Children of Hurin.
Just as The Hobbit should not be compared in merit with LOTR, so shouldn’t this one, for though they come from the same world (Middle Earth), they’re entirely of different species (much like Elves, Dwarves and Men).I knew even before I started Chapter One that this was not a book about hope.
A sad, sad tale all throughout, but so much like a beautiful, melancholic song you like to torture yourself with just because it makes you feel fuzzy.I’ve read a few reviews of this book that found the narrative style lacking—dismissing it as too cold.
Now I will sing the doom song.This is probably the grimmest tale of Middle-earth, filled with treachery and betrayal and evil glamours and shocking revelations and all other manner of doom and tragedy.
If you read The Silmarillion, you know the gist of the story.
(If you didn't read The Silmarillion I'm not sure why you're reading this book in the first place.) This volume presents the tale of Túrin Turambar in a longer, more complete narrative (although it's still relatively short by modern standards).
If you've read the Hobbit, Lord of the Rings, Silmarillion, and still want more, then you will probably be interested in this book.
Not that it couldn't be an interesting story, it's just written as if someone were telling a story that happened long ago, you never can immerse yourself in it, there are few details, and even the suspense is killed by the chapter headings (ie.
I wonder what will happen in this chapter???) The characters in the book have nothing to do with the characters of The Hobbit or Lord of the Rings, but they might be mentioned in The Silmarillion (can't remember).
Sem sombras de dúvida Os Filhos de Húrin é o conto mais triste e obscuro de Tolkien.
O livro é marcado por uma maldição, guerras e carnificina.Muitas vezes durante o livro algumas partes são melancólicas.
Nisso vemos como a maldade de Morgoth não tem limites.O livro é fantástico e as ilustrações de Allan Lee complementam essa magnífica obra, mas se você espera um final feliz, temo dizer que você irá se desapontar.Não é obrigatório, mas é recomendável que o leitor tenha lido O Silmarillion ao menos até o capítulo "De Túrin Turambar" para uma melhor experiência, e também para acostumar-se com a linguagem utilizada em ambos contos.Fica a recomendação para os amantes da Terra-média.
Louvado seja Eru.
Holy mackerel.To be honest, I've never been into depressing books or tragedies.
but they always seem incomplete, like Romeo and Juliet.
Let's be honest, this is a much-better version of Romeo and Juliet.I was really scared to start this, since I'd heard that it was pretty dark and depressing (view spoiler)[and that it involved incest (hide spoiler)], but I actually really enjoyed it.
The only reason this isn't a five-star book for me is that it wasn't the most uplifting book (obviously) and I didn't exactly enjoy a couple parts of it (view spoiler)[like the whole incest thing...
(hide spoiler)].
Ενδιαφέρον, ναι. Επικό, ναι. Αξίζει να το διαβάσεις, σίγουρα ναι. Αλλά πόση κατάθλιψη να αντέξει κανείς;
Turin era um jovem humano que ambicionava assimilar os conhecimentos elfícos e tornar-se num dos cavaleiros do rei.
Ele descende de um grande guerreiro que viveu uma bela história de amor com uma elfa.
Mas ao contrário deste, a sua vida é carregada de sombras e vinganças.Ele consegue realizar o seu sonho, e durante um tempo consegue ser feliz na corte dos elfos.
Mas ao ser injustamente acusado, tornar-se num proscrito e bandido.
Tal como as outras histórias da Terra Média, possuem episódios mais guerreiros e com anões rabugentos como Mim. Mas o destino é trágico próprio de um simples humano que ambicionou possuir mais.
I read the book immediately and will say that it is a must for any lifelong Tolkein fans.
This is really strange to me because it is said that J.R.R. most identified with the tale's hero, Turin, out of any of his other characters.That being said, I wouldn't recommend this work to anyone except hardcore Tolkein fans.
Hurin, Turin's proud and valiant father, is captured by Morgoth, the enemy, after the loss of the War of Unnumbered Tears.
Turin becomes a great warrior both proud and noble yet falls victim to the curse of Morgoth.
Well, if you haven't read The Silmarillion, it is near impossible to follow the story of this book!!!
As far as the story of The Children of Hurin is concerned, it is mainly the melancholic journey of Hurin's son, Turin, who struggled all his life to be just and find happiness, only to discover that the curse laid on him and his sister Nienor would always cast a shadow on him, leading only to loss and destruction, whether it is about friends or foes.
The best part of this book was the ending, which was beyond sad!!!
