https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11080013-the-laugh-of-the-medusa
If you have the opportunity, then I would suggest reading this work in french.
Derrida was once quoted as saying that Cixous was the best contemporary french author, and I do not have my doubts about that.
In this manifesto, Cixous calls out to all women, saying, "now is the time to write!" That through the written word, or "ecriture feminine," women can re-define themselves by their own performance and not only reclaim their sexuality but also subvert the repressive hierarchies established through the privileging of phallogocentrism.
Through this writing, women should bring other women into the fold of knowing and writing through their bodies which have been forbidden to them by the “conventional man." This “conventional man” is the embodiment of the phallocentrism that has oppressed and defined the female voice, body and sexuality.
The Old woman was suppressed by man who created in her an “antinarcissm” and an “antilove,” mobilizing the power of women against themselves, which is, according to Cixous, the greatest crime against women committed by man.
This radical change from the Old to New is the invention of a “new insurgent” writing, liberating the woman and allowing her “to carry out the indispensable ruptures and transformations in her history." This transformation is on two levels.
what a fantastic piece!
Fantastisk. "Det räcker med att betrakta Medusa framifrån för att se henne: och hon dödar inte. Hon är vacker och hon skrattar". Gråter över detta citat! Det är sån kraft.
"Almost everything is yet to be written by women about femininity: about their sexuality, that is, its infinite and mobile complexity; about their eroticization, sudden turn-ons of a certain minuscule-immense area of their bodies; not about destiny, but about the adventure of such and such a drive, about trips, crossings, trudges, abrupt and gradual awakenings, discoveries of a zone at once timorous and soon to be forthright."
"Let the priests tremble, we're going to show them our sexts!"
En liten men explosiv volym. Som tar plats och som uppmanar. Som befriar.
Real men don't play with the girls, or read books or do their homework or try to please the teacher.
Where once conventional man knew I was frightened, and if he beat me I'd cry, I learned to use my understanding for protection.
He lived the only life he knew, the only world, but it was a world from which I was precluded by my own 'I-hood'.Hélène Cixous says: 'Write!
Hélène Cixous says:Men still have everything to say about their sexuality, everything to write.
Conventional man says I must be masculine; do men's things; hide my fear; gloss over it with bluff and long sentences.
Yes. Do we need more feminist writing like Helene Cixous?
Woman must put herself into the text - as into the world and into history - by her own movement."Of course feminism has come a long way ever since The Laugh of the Medusa has been written but I really enjoyed the way Cixous talked about the female body and the place it takes up in the world.
"Your body must be heard."Even though many things have changed, I think this writing is worth a lot of thought.
"Who, surprised and horrified by the fantastic tumult of her drives, hasn't accused herself of being a monster?" or "...because the unconscious, that other limitless country, is the place where the repressed manage to survive: women, or as Hoffmann would say, fairies. "
Cixous had a lot of interesting to things to say about women and writing, but the language was aggravating in a way that is hard to explain, and it made it difficult to focus on her points, hence why it took such a long-arse time to finish.
She just kept talking in one long incredibly unbroken sentence moving from topic to topic so that no-one had a chance to interrupt; it was really quite hypnotic, etc.
I don't know, but I want to give it another chance (albeit at some vague point in the future) before rating it.
4.5 starsA very fascinating read. This is my first experience of diving into the concept of psychoanalytic feminism, and I'm certainly not disappointed. I hope this can help in my thesis.
The way that Cixous compels women to write is too persuasive--she makes me feel guilty for not writing more!
But Cixous makes that voice die down, her arguments made me not care about masculine expectations of what "good" writing is.
Even though she comes off a little bit essentialist (a la Simone de Beauvoir), I think it's a refreshing look at feminism.
and your self-seeking text will know itself better than flesh and blood, rising, insurrectionary dough kneading itself, with sonorous, perfumed ingredients, a lively combination of flying colors, leaves, and rivers plunging into the sea we feed.
Uh not to be sexist but I hate unconventional writing styles so in turn I hate feminine writing and thus this piece I don't even rly have a fully formed opinion on her thesis I just hated the writing style
she writes in poetry and I owe her my body looking back at me from me
Jag är rymligt sjungande Kött, där ingen vet vilket jag som inympats, mer eller mindre mänskligt men framförallt levande, eftersom det är i förvandling. Åh!
"In one another, we will never be lacking." <3
Metninde Cixous, feminenliğin ve kadının, Batı metafiziğinde ve özellikle Freud ve Lacan'ın psikanalitik teorilerinde yerleştirildiği konumun, daha doğrusu "konumsuzluğun" yapısal çözümlemesini yapıyor.
Beni en çok etkileyen nokta ise, Cixous'nun sevgi ve anneliğe verdiği rol oldu.
Cixous, Barbara Smith'in "Towards a Black Feminist Criticism" metninde öne sürdüğü lezbiyen edebiyatına benzer şekilde sunuyor biseksüelliği: "öteki" ile kurulan bağın temeline perspektif değiştirebilme yeteneğini koyarak (gazing/tactility).Metin hakkında aklımda kalan tek soru işareti, feminenliğin tekil olmadığının altı sürekli olarak çizilmesine rağmen neden Cixous'nun "universal woman subject" gibi bir kelime tercihi yaptığı.
"Every woman has known the torment of getting up to speak. Her heart racing, at times entirely lost for words, ground and language slipping away - that's how daring a feat, how great a transgression it is for a woman to speak - even just open her mouth - in public. A double distress, for even if she transgresses, her words fall almost always upon the deaf male ear, which hears in language only that which speaks in the masculine."
My god.
The high rating comes not from the actual work itself because I find that I was not impressed with her writings. But I loved her theory. Women should help and advocate for other women!
"You only have to look at the Medusa straight on to see her. And she's not deadly. She's beautiful and she's laughing. "
it's an essay not a book. nonetheless. lovely read. the way she writes makes you feel like you're listening to her give a long speech :)
Για τη Cixous, στη λογοτεχνία τον κυριότερο ρόλο παίζει η έννοια του σώματος, καθώς οι γυναίκες σε όλες τις ιστορικές περιόδους έως και σήμερα, έτειναν πάντοτε να το ενοχοποιούν εξαιτίας των επιταγών της κοινωνίας -μιας κοινωνίας ανέκαθεν φαλλοκρατικής.
Κάνοντας την εξαιρετική τοποθέτηση "Censor the body and you censor breath and speech at the same time", η θεωρητικός προ(σ)καλεί τις γυναίκες να παράγουν γραπτό λόγο, ως απόρροια της αποδοχής και λατρείας του σώματος τους, ώστε να καταρριφθεί η ιεραρχία του ενός φύλλου απέναντι στο άλλο, αλλά ώστε και η γυναικεία έμπνευση και δημιουργικότητα να αγγίξει το ζενίθ των δυνατοτήτων της.
Absolutely groundbreaking. Cixous offers a book that holds different and diverse viewpoints about feminism, gender studies, literature, critical thinking and psychoanalysis. Her development of the presence of gendered biases in literature is sublime and sometimes it is hard to believe this book was written more than thirty years ago.
imma keep it real and say that this was literally so difficult to comprehend/follow at times but even while stumbling through reading this i was amazed at cixous’s writing and the points that she makes throughout.. i found myself literally gasping at certain parts and screenshotting certain sections.. sis rlly did that
“By writing herself, woman will return to the body which has been more than confiscated from her – which has been turned into the uncanny stranger on display… Censor the body and you censor breath and speech at the same time.”
Lectura muy irregular. Hay pasajes realmente bellos, interesantes y vigentes a 40 años de su publicación, pero otros me han resultado incomprensibles. No obstante esta autora me ha generado interés, leeré más libros suyos.
"When I write, it’s everything that we don’t know we can be that is written out of me, without exclusions, without stipulation, and everything we will be calls us to the unflagging, intoxicating, unappeasable search for love. In one another we will never be lacking."
This is one of those texts that rewards repeated readings, but even at the first reading, it is bold and transgressive in its insistence that women write and live truthfully.
