https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1605952.Bulldog_Drummond
What a book. What. A. Book. I say, Jeeves. Glorious Britain, egomaniacal super-criminals, world domination, stolen jewels, poison darts, millionaire hostages, a murderous gorilla, a dashing detective, and a beautiful girl. All in one book. What more could one ask? A little too much swearing, but by Jove, it was good! ;D
Hugh Drummond is not a refined character like Lupin or Peter Whimsey, he's a bit of a thug and even admits thinking is not his strong suit.
There is a damsel, Drummond is surrounded by good hearted, if somewhat thick friends, the villain is a thoroughly evil criminal mastermind and the traps are all suitably dramatic and over the top.This would have made a great cliffhanger serial.Warning: if you've only seen the Bulldog movies, the book will come as a bit of a shock, as the films smoothed down most of Drummond's rough edges.Also, this was written in 1920, so it's not exactly PC in it's views.
This was part of a four-volume collection available for the Kindle for free.
Before I get to the review, some comments on the Kindle version.
It's a bad OCR job, so there are a lot of typos, a lot of misspelled words, a lot of confused punctuation.
More frustratingly, it seemed like entire sentences/paragraphs/?
It's a fast, easy read - no dense Holmesian prose here, just a fairly straightforward tale about an adventurer/detective who gets sucked into a nefarious plot by a beautiful woman and, the more he discovers, the more he feels compelled to unravel the entire thing.
Such a delightful mix of Buchan and Wodehouse... I hated to see the ending as much as Captain Drummond himself.
Bulldog Drummond, published in 1920, was the book that launched the career of this gentleman crime-fighter and adventurer.In Bulldog Drummond we meet Captain Hugh Drummond, and he’s bored.
Most of the replies are unpromising but then he hits pay dirt - a genuine damsel in distress.The damsel in question is Phyllis Benton and her story at first seems incredible - a tale of master criminals, sinister plots and daring robberies in which her father has become an unwilling accomplice.
Drummond soon discovers that her story is not merely true, it’s actually much stranger than even she realises.
The love scenes are the most inept I have ever read, the characters are a parade of stereotypes, the prose is embarrassingly bad at times and the action is fast and furious with nary a real plot twist but several cliffhanging reversals of fortune for our hero, who seems to rescue and then lose a millionaire being held captive by the villains more times than I misplace my specs on an averagely dunderheaded day.
I can't in good conscience give this book more than two stars, but it's good at what it sets out to do - while away a few hours of your life with a short, sharp burst of vicarious manic action.
Having become a huge fan of Bulldog Drummond watching the old films from the 30's starring John Howard, I couldn't wait to sink my teeth into the book!
I'm so looking forward to reading the next one!A few things were changed as far as Drummond's character, they cleaned up his character for film and made him much less focused on vengeance.The way his adventures start with a newspaper ad reminded me so much of the swell old radio show Box Thirteen.
I think that anyone who likes reading Sherlock Holmes type stories would love this book!
emotional communist Russian!), and an unabashed jingoistic UK stance, this book centers pretty firmly on the action--a shadowy cabal of "cosmopolitans" trying to destroy England for reasons & money (American industrialists & defeated Germans share a common enemy after all if you squint really hard), and while trying to save his girl's father, who as a drunken forger is both heavily involved with, and totally absolved of his crimes (he's weak!
Leaving aside future unease, the book is relatively fun.
Especially early 20th century ones in the vein of the serials (think Pearl White) and the villain and his vamp girlfriend were the 2 most fun in the book.
Well, the plot has more holes in it than half a ton of swiss cheese, but nevertheless I quite enjoyed it. An absolute breakneck speed of action and adventure: fights, shoot-outs, murders, chases, deadly traps, romance and thefts tumble over each other page after page. The characters are a mixed bag. Some are well drawn and credible, others are flat caricatures, and one who seemed very well developed was in the book for two chapter then left and was never seen again. An enjoyable romp so long as you are prepared to ignore the problems with the plot.
James Bond by way of P.G. Wodehouse.
From the moment when he posts his frivolous ad to the moment when he feels delight on learning that a homicidal enemy has escaped justice and will therefore be free for another round of one-upmanship, Drummond fails to take anything seriously.To Drummond, the adventure is another bit of fun now that the war is over and he cannot kill the Hun. Again it may seem surprising to us, especially since Sapper himself had seen wartime fighting.
This demonising of one’s enemies is useful for dehumanising them in the reader’s eyes, and ensuring we do not care when they are killed, but it also serves to promote an unsavoury political agenda.Bulldog Drummond is a silly and poorly-written book.
Excitement essential.' Contacted by a damsel in distress, Drummond finds himself up against the suave and ruthless Peterson, a prototypical pre-Bond baddie of uncertain nationality and ambitious cunning, planning to profit by kick-starting a Communist revolution in England.Assisted by little more than his army training, some palls from his old regiment, a steady supply of beer and cigarettes from his case ('Turkish this side—Virginian that') and a fine line in verbal flippancy, Bulldog enters the game!
Flippancy is indeed Drummond's principle attraction, his nerveless insouciance feeding some great lines, e.g. he 'struck Hugh as being the sort of man with whom one would not share a luncheon basket.
BOTTOM LINE: A lovely 1920s thriller, 'way, 'way over-the-top, with A Criminal Mastermind trying to rule the world, and The Good Guy and Friends trying to save humanity (and get the girl).
This time it's financial shenanigans, labor relations, and stock manipulations (gee, not much has changed in 90 years...), superior burglary of one-of-a-kind items, and all sorts of manipulation by the bad guys, including torture, clearly - and surprisingly - represented here.
There is a love story of sorts, but it's mercifully brief and marginal, mainly working as a hook to get Drummond into the story.
Some (not to say many) modern reviewers consider the Sapper books as dated, pseudo-fascist, racist etc., etc. I find them highly amuzing and typical of their day: Remember that they were written in the 1920's and 30's, when the horrible present system of censorship, usually referred to as "political correctness" had not yet been invented. How I yearn for those halcyon days and despice the bleak and cowardly literature of today!
From BBC Radia 4 Extra:After the Great War, demobbed Army officer Captain Hugh “Bulldog” Drummond finds peacetime tedious, so advertises his services to anyone offering adventure – hopefully legitimate and with excitement guaranteed. His wishes are quickly answered when he finds himself in the company of the most dangerous man in England.
Really really "fun" book. I would give it a 5 star except for a good deal of language in the book. Drummond is breaks the stereotype of the usual detective/hero of a story (i.e. downright ugly, a little simple in his plans etc etc), but it only adds to the enjoyment of the book.
A fun bit of fluff reading. Nothing to heavy or thought-provoking, just some good old-fashioned detective action/adventure fun. He actually ADVERTISED for an adventure to get into and runs into a criminal mastermind!?!?!?
Hugh “Bull-Dog” Drummond, bored after the end of World War I (the book is subtitled The Adventures of a Demobilized Officer Who Found Peace Dull) puts an advert in the paper.
The prologue has the villain invite all his colleagues to dinner, in a very cool scene that rather unfortunately does not really add anything to the very similar one in Guy Boothby’s A Bid For Fortune.Read This: If you insist on knowing more about 1920s adventure fictionDon’t Read This: If the same character getting captured more than twice in a book annoys you
Witty, daring, humorous, but not-too-good looking "Bulldog" Hugh Drummond is the perfect hero for this rip-snorting mystery / thriller set in post-WWI Britain (I say, what!).
Seriously, I dare you to dislike this book!(view spoiler)[Notable differences from the films: Resourceful and dry-humored side-kick/butler "Tenny" (film) was actually based on the original butler "Denny" of the book, who is much less witty, speaks with a very heavy cockney accent, and is married to Drummond's cook.
Narrated by Julian Rhind-Tutt for BBC radio, abridged.A WWI veteran-skilled in many levels of combat, and cunning- returns bored with the life of peacetime Britain and seeks adventure.
So many tropes we know so well in the 21st century of those post war novels the Lost Generation continued from the Victorian explorer adventures, lead to the thrillers of men of war, gentleman of taste, that go forth for their own ends, to stop evil.
For what it was offered as a radio entertainment, it was an enjoyable few hours of over-the-top radio serial adventure so cherished in a former generation.
Bored ex-soldier seeks some entertainment and becomes embroiled in an international affair to revolutionise England organised by an opportunistic capitalist.
This provides to be rather a jolly scrape for our hero, although at times the amount of to-ing and fro-ing becomes rather absurd (just how many times can pass the parcel be played with an American millionnaire?).The writing is adequate, the pace variable, the charactersiation caricature, the language dated (in some places unfortunately - and by no means intentionally - laughably so), and the opportunities for the opposing protagonists to 'do for each other' are woefully squandered.
Recently demobilised and bored WWI officer seeks adventure.
Gets some, in a very genteel British manor.
And the adventure he finds himself in, and the opponents he is facing, is essentially a drawing room mystery with a few more guns and one more psychopath than usual, but with the usual rules in play.
The house next door to the villains' lair is a safe place, for instance, which the bad guys will respect.
There is much "oh, you do get in the way.
Next time it will be bad for you!" talk from the villains without much by way of actual 'bad' ensuing.
First published in 1920, Bulldog Drummond is the first in a series of tales of a gentleman adventurer/sleuth.
Set in a make believe fantasy-land 1920s London where posh gentleman sleuths battle it out with posh master criminals, and all of the common folk finish every sentence with 'Guv'nor'.
Drummond has a habit of charging into situations, hence the 'Bulldog' sobriquet, whilst the ruthless criminal mastermind Carl Peterson seems to me to be not nearly ruthless enough and often a little incompetent.
In this tale, Peterson is trying to make money by orchestrating the economic ruin of Great Britain, which is quite laughable since it didn't need a criminal mastermind to achieve that.
Well, this was quite an unexpected and entertaining novel. P.G. Wodehouse meets Ian Fleming. Quite enough to make one go ‘what, what, dear chap’? Some chaotic adventuring with our hero of the strong jaw, stiff British upper lip and a taste for drinks at the Club.
Quite an exciting adventure novel from the 1920s. Drummond is a hero now almost forgotten bout his exploits must have spurred the advent of pulp heroes like the Shadow and Doc Savage. I truly enjoyed it, and will hunt down its many sequels.
Cheeky, camp! Young man in search of adventure fights a pygmées, a gorilla, and organized crime.
One of the original Military Thrillers...Still a great read.
That the Drummond books are now forgotten, and would be universally condemned today if appearing for the first time, tells us everything we need to know about who won the war.This, the first of the Bulldog Drummond stories, appeared in 1920 and became a national sensation in England.
"Bulldog Drummond" is not only thrilling entertainment, it is also an insightful record of what an average Englishman thought of the political scene just after the Great War.Untouched by the diseased campaign to deaden all racial sensibilities which would soon envelop the West, Sapper wrote from the heart, and for the common man.
Lots of fun.
An interesting example of a gentleman adventurer but the slang and attitudes of the time it was written are a bit off putting.
