https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/441618.Breaking_Free
An insightful study in the book of Isaiah. I fully expected God to reveal more of Himself as I gave my attention to Him but did not expect to "see" so much more of myself. While the process is painstaking it's also a relief and helpful in knowing what obstacles are on the path of my Christian walk. Gained a lot of insight into areas that I need to surrender and the model for how to do that. Loved this study!
I honestly would recommend this book/Bible study to anyone looking for something 'more' in their walk with God. Whether you're trying to break out of something or trying to run towards something you see hinted at in the lives of people you respect spiritually, or just get a grasp on something you're pretty sure is out t here spiritually but that you just can't seem to capture...Beth's use of God's words packs a powerful punch.
Where I live it is possible to ask women if they've had their BM for the day and they understand it to mean Beth Moore.
I read this book as part of a womens' study at a church I used to attend, at a time when Beth Moore was just beginning to be the bee's knees.
Her writing is hardly revolutionary, but since the christian sub-culture is behind on almost everything, she was considered to be a new voice.
If you like reading popular self-help Christian writing, this book is as good a place to start as any.
This book helped me learn what I needed to learn of Gods love and grace and how to recognize and then to let go of what kept me prisoner. A must read in my opinion for everyone who has junk in their life that they carry guilt and or are ashamed for others to know and have regrets or living with consequences that hurt. Get it, read it, study it, do it - get free :)
It is difficult because of her own painful memories of abuse.Breaking Free's main theme is liberty in Christ Jesus.
Liberty from strongholds and oppression, specifically directed at those who have been victimized through sexual abuse.Breaking Free's main focal passage from the Bible---The Spirit of the Sovereign LORD is on me, because the LORD has anointed me to preach good news to the poor.
But, underneath these memories are wounds, and they feel fresh, even though its been years ago when the abuse happened.A few significant points in the book: We cannot heal on our own.
Reading this for the second time...the woman at our church are doing the in-depth Bible study of this topic, but I am doing the less-intense version since Baby #3 is due this month.Finally...and I do mean FINALLY I finished this book.
It is probably a much better study than it is a book, but I enjoyed it and was challenged, so it was definitely worth the time I spent reading it...which was at a snail's pace, I assure you.
The point of the book--that you can be saved and still be living in bondage--is all too true for me.
Amazing that Beth Moore can write a book on four lines of scripture, Isaiah 61:1-4. I have memorized this passage and it will forever be close to my heart. Overcoming a stronghold is powerful. Coming face to face with it may be hard, but once you face it and give it to God....well, you can probably write a book :-) I love Beth Moore and her candid speaking of how she has (and still is) overcome her obstacles. I learned my love for Bible Study from Beth Moore. She makes it a fun adventure.
great book for self examination...... if you are ready to be honest with yourself.
Moore starts the book off with a challenge….memorizing the word of God. That in its self gets my mind rolling with a slight tinge of anxiousness.
Moore emphasizes verses from Isaiah which help one’s mind to “break free” from the stronghold of idols, pride, legalism, prayerlessness, and unbelief and to make “Him to become God alone to you with a powerful story to tell”.
The use of Hebrew/Greek words and definitions made the book a little boring to me.
To say that I became closer to God after reading the book is an understatement.
Once upon a time, the clouds parted to reveal a single beam of sunlight that hit nothing but Amytiger as she learned this concept of pro-con charts. In the background, a church choir, for no apparent reason, sung "Ohhhhhhh." A single tear ran down her cheek at the beauty of this concept of pro-con charts.Slightly exaggerated from how I first found out there were pro/con charts (actually, when I was in the sixth grade a fellow student explained it to me, but that's not as fun
A Christian is held captive by anything that hinders the abundant and effective Spirit-filled life God planned for her. Breaking Free proves God's words in Galatians 5:1, "It is for freedom that Christ has se us free. Stand firm, then, and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery." This Bible Study's themes come from the book of Isaiah. A must read for all Christian women!
Another awesome bible study by Beth Moore! Dig deep into hidden area's within your life where God is seeking to turn trash into beautiful treasures. Surrendering is key to growth as a Christian & despite the pain involved, it's quite necessary. Very empowering!
One of the most powerfully moving Bible Studies I've ever undertaken. Although some scoff at her fill-in-the blank methods, the content was deeply thought provoking and emotionally stirring. I came away changed and healed after participating in this study!
I have never gotten so much from Isaiah before. Beth Moore is amazing at putting together modern examples of captivity and using Biblical truths to set us free.
Went through this for a women's bible study. I think I liked the bible study and the women in it more than the actual book.
AMAZING!
This book was good enough that I read it twice because I didn't want to forget the important and helpful information Moore reveals. So glad I found this read.
Beth Moore is one of the few people who can write such a lengthy book on four lines of scripture, Isaiah 61:1-4.
I feel confident to say that this study has brought us all closer to God as well as each other.I have heard video of Beth Moore giving her life testimony.
It is obvious that she writes from her own personal experiences in life.
But as our group leader has said, almost all writing is autobiographical at some level.The take-away from this book, complete spiritual freedom is found only in complete surrender.
To know God & believe Him; 2.
I was thinking how could this child ever be turned around if they never suffer any consequences for their actions.....and boom....there was Chapter 34 about God dealing with rebellion.
Another point that jumped out to me at just the right time was her story about believing she had a christian duty to help someone when the Holy Spirit had told her not to get involved in the situation.
Quote: "Not every person who comes to you for help has been sent by God!" Valuable lesson that allowed me to let go of some guilt over a situation that was way out of my league.
Title: BREAKING FREEAuthor: Beth MoorePublisher: Broadman & Holman2007 (reprinted from 2000)ISBN: 1-59328-028-9Genre: Inspirational/Christian livingDo you want to find satisfaction in God, experience His peace, and enjoy His presence?
Do you want to make the freedom Christ promised a reality in your daily life?In BREAKING FREE, Beth Moore introduces the readers to nine different lessons and has several different parts – The lessons are too long to mention here, but the parts are: I.
Freedom and Splendor This book is a Bible study and a lesson in Christianity that the reader / student won’t soon forget.
I found her main points interesting and relevant, but unfortunately her examples and anecdotes were much too vague for me to be able to draw any sorts of parallels to my own life.
Her reasoning was not to lock the reader into thinking those were the only situations relevant, but unfortunately it didn't work for me.At the end of the day, I remember her main focus-point (escape satan's strongholds in your life, by seeing his lies for what they are, and focusing on Christ's truths instead) - which is the important thing, of course, though nothing I didn't already know - but nothing else...
I read this book in preparation for the Summer Book Club at our church.
After reading this book…I'm still not entirely sure she speaks to me, but I do know I want to reread the book - slower, and in smaller "bites." I didn't realize from the onset how much time could be spent in this study of Isaiah (not a full study, but some of Isaiah, anyway).
I got a lot out of it, but I think I'd get even more - by spending more time and reading it in smaller "bites."
It took me two months to read this book.
But not because it was bad or hard to read but because it was so deep and so heart provoking that I could only do a few chapters at a time and then I had to stop and chew for awhile.
This was a good good read.
Her writing is easy to read but not simple to digest.
She covers God's word with an understanding of someone who has spent years studying it.
She doesn't take God's word lightly but puts all stock in it.
This book was excellent and I'm pretty sure I will be reading it again for more digestion.
This book is what you want to put into it.
If you just want to skim the surface or go to a nice women's gathering, it might be kind of intense causing you to tune out.
If you want to dig deep into God's Word, this might not be "inductive Bible study" enough for you, causing disappointment.
Beth Moore is a little intense for my California-ness, but every time she seems to be over the top, she says something so true, it stops me cold.Breaking Free is part Bible study and part commentary/book.
I have enjoyed many of Beth Moore's Bible studies but this is the first time I have read one of her books based on one of her studies.
I keep a notebook full of quotes I want to remember and I pulled quite a few from this book.
I found this book very encouraging and I would recommend it.
That being said, I do believe that time with a licensed counselor is very valuable if you are dealing with a history that is hard to process.
If that is why you are reading this book, please keep reading it but also find a counselor who can help you heal.
Awesome.
Christ has won the victory and we truly can live in liberty through Him!
Beth is amazing.
This book was so Bible-focused (the book of Isaiah) and so God centered.
Though she could have made it all about her own journey to freedom, she continually points the reader away from herself and onto the Lord.
That is why He has blessed her ministry so much.
It is amazing to me that even Christians who have the assurance of salvation through Christ, can still get so easily caught up in lies/bondage/dissatisfaction.
If your willing to look into your ownself..and allow truth of God's word to replace the lies you believed, to trust God with your past as well as your future then this is the book for you. This is an intense study.. It's a book you just can't "read" through. There are applications, memorizing, and the willinginess to let go of yourself ( die to yourself) And let God rule. There was a lot of weeping for me..and this was needed.. but Joy was replaced. REad this book slowly - don't try to hurry with it.. You will be blessed.
I read this book in treadmill chunks...literally. God must have known that He could have my full concentration while on the treadmill because every time I tried to read a chapter of Breaking Free while not on the treadmill--I quickly became bored and couldn't focus on the content. On the treadmill, however, I had to figure out how to get sweaty hands to highlight what resonated with me and I wanted to remember for later. Thank you for the gift of this book and the added benefit of exercising while being drenched in God's Word along with the sweat!
I used the kindle book along with the audible for times when I couldn't actually sit and read. It took me a while to get used to the voice, but once I did I really enjoyed the book. It is very insightful and focuses on relationship with God vs legalism or knowledge of Him. I was once a captive, then was free, but somehow slipped back into captivity and this book basically emphasized what I already know I need to do. I would recommend this book to anyone.
This book was very meaningful to me this year, but don't know that I would recommend it to someone else as just a book to pick up and read. I think you would need to be in a certain place or mindset to really be able to take in what this book has to offer. I honestly wanted more in some parts of the book. I wanted to sit down with Beth over coffee wanting more specifics, more answers... but I think she did a good job of pointing me to the One who can really break you free...
