https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/191581.God_s_Little_Acre
But in the process, the book ignited a firestorm of controversy, leading to numerous efforts to suppress it.A year earlier, Caldwell's Tobacco Road was published.
While Caldwell again presented his story as a curious combination of black humor and tragedy, a combination that confuses critics -- not to mention readers -- God's Little Acre became very serious -- deadly serious -- when it turned from the humorous efforts of Ty Ty Walden and his sons to find gold on their farm to an attempt by Ty Ty's son-in-law to forcibly re-open the textile plant that has kept him and his co-workers unemployed for a year and a half.
Well, literally AND metaphorically.Ty Ty and his sons are poor white Southern Americans in the grimmest economic times of the 20th century.
The ones at home, well, we all have our crosses to bear, don't we?Since the land's being dug up for gold instead of farmed for food, the boys go off to work in the textile mills.
There is nothing unclear or muddy about the book, except the minds of the characters, and that is by the author's design.The search for gold isn't as stupid as it sounds.
Asking for a piece of paper and a pen, I decided that I would write a review on the car manual, but I woke up after writing just a few lines.I disliked this book so you know that the last thing I wanted to do was dream about those people, which I may as well tell you are NOT like any hillbillies I have met, but I am sure they are out there somewhere.
I also heard tell it that y’alls been chasing tail all over our country when ya ain’t been digging holes.
Yes, this is the cover of the edition I read, and it's both right and wrong: the house should not be a wooden shack; the woman was not wearing a mini-dress (or slip) or high heels; and the hair of the woman on the bed should be brown.In the comments section of the last book I finished, Zola's Nana, my friend Howard (and Erskine Caldwell expert) said its theme would segue nicely into this one.
Caldwell somehow manages to create a compelling story that centers on character development through conflict after conflict.
The book is a boiling caldron of desperation and sexual tension.
As a writer, you have to allow the grotesque to be told.BTW – Caldwell received a lot of grief in his life for the way he depicted the south.
I’ve lived in the south for 35 years now, and I can say with great confidence that Caldwell was spot on.In short, this book is a classic that should be required reading for anyone who aspires to be a writer.
I wanted to like God's Little Acre.
I read that it had been banned in its day so I immediately wanted to read it.
Unfortunately, it didn't get far with me.The main plot has the patriarch and his poor family digging for gold on a Georgian farm.
On those two main plots, lean the most base, over-sexed adult characters you may ever read.In the last couple of chapters, the sexual antics cease and Caldwell has the protagonist shift to a wise patriarch.
Although there is so much truth in the patriarch's soliloquy, I think there must have been better ways to reach the moral of the story than the route Caldwell took.Chapters 18-20: 4 starsChapters 1-17: 2 stars
"It's a pity all folks ain't got the sense dogs are born with.""The trouble with people is that they try to fool themselves into believing that they're different from the way God made them.
But most people are so dead inside that they believe it and try to make everybody else live that way.
A man can't live, feeling himself from the inside, and listening to what the preachers say.
A man has got God in him from the start, and when he is made to live like a preacher says to live, there's going to be trouble.
However, this review is an excuse to tell of my meeting Erskine Caldwell.
It was in Klamath Falls, Oregon, in the Waldorf Bar and Grill and pool hall.
The drunk said, and I am paraphrasing the best to my memory, "I'm Erskine Caldwell.
Then, a couple of days later, I read in The Herald and News that Erskine Caldwell had been to Klamath Falls for a book talk and signing.
They had a picture of him, and sure enough it was the down-and-out drunk I had talked to for over and hour.
Oh--another interesting bit of trivia: Erskine Caldwell was a heavy smoker and died of emphysema.
My favourite part of this book is the very last sentence. I don't remember what the sentence was about, I was too busy celebrating that id come to the end of this soap opera of a novel to notice the content.Honestly, this is the worst book I've read in a long time. In fact I can't remember reading a book to the end that was as disgusting as this one. There was not one likeable character in the entire book. There was no plot or subplot that did not disgust me. Just a thoroughly wretched reading experience.
Otro libro sobre la miseria de las personas. Fantástico
There ain’t a man alive who’ve ever seen a finer looking pair of rising beauties as she’s got.
And every time you see them it makes you feel just a little bit more like that old hound dog I was talking about.
Because you can’t put your hands on it, you can’t talk to it, because you can’t make it here.The women are equally base, and sensual, as when the beautiful Griselda enjoys the strangeness of life in town, and feels the pulse of humanity and its crawling essence:p.
There was a feeling in the air of living people just like herself, and this she had never felt before.
God's little acre, is a peace of land belonging to Ty Ty, the father to Darling Jill, Buck and Shaw.
He has however preserved God's little acre, as a sacrifice to God. Most of his family members think it's a bad idea digging around, rather than putting the land into better use.
He is admired by every male member of Ty ty's family and this causes a lot of distress to her husband buck.
Most of the family members are poor and still live with their father.
This a story of a poor family searching for gold, trying to live together, with as little affection towards one another.
I'm a big fan of Southern Gothic, and this is pretty much as good as it gets.
Hard to believe it was written in the early 30s.
Very hard.
Caldwell's style may be a bit off-putting to some--I've read reviews that slam him for the repetition of images and phrases, but if you just sit back and let the words flow over you, it's mesmerizing.
Much like Things Fall Apart the story seems like nothing more than a simple fable while you are reading it.
It's afterwards, when you can't get it out of your mind that you realize its true brilliance.
I'm sure some people could invent symbolism and interpret  in any creative number of ways, but I feel that would be looking for meaning where there isn't any, or at least not enough to warrant looking for in the first place.While there is some humour in God's Little Acre (mostly at the start) it is nowhere near adequate enough to carry the story, unlike in Caldwell's other novel, Tobacco Road.
Or maybe the only difference between the two novels is that I happened to read Tobacco Road first and so was already tired of Caldwell's style by the time I came to God's Little Acre.
That was the beginning of trouble.”Tobacco Road by Erskine Caldwell left a big impression on me so it was only natural to seek out Caldwell's other books.
God’s Little Acre was published just one year after Tobacco Road and while both focus on the rural poor in Georgia during the Great Depression, they are somewhat different in tone.
Absent is the violent, absurd in-your-face brutality that was so apparent in Tobacco Road.
With that said, there is some glimmer of the absurdity that I was seeking.
the day that Pluto implores the Waldens to go into the swamp to catch an albino man to help them divine gold, he ponders his relationship with the beautiful Darling Jill: "she was that kind of girl, and he knew of no way to change her.
but as long as she would sit still and let him hug her, he was completely satisfied; it was when she slapped him on the face and hit him the belly with her fists that he was wholly displeased." this may not give you a real taste of how INSANE this book is.
but know that you are delving into madness.
perfect southern goth, with one of the best families of all time
This book took place during the depression south.
He brilliantly captured the tragedy of American life during the depression years.The Walden farm is slowly falling to ruin as fewer and fewer crops are being planted because Ty Ty is digging holes in the ground in search of gold.
And the sons have their minds on the other’s wives and not on digging which has gone on for years.
Tragedy ensues.Even though this book was banned in Boston and other places and attacked by the NY Society, it went on to sell more than 10 million copies.
The girls are always having their clothes ripped off in the presence of lascivious men; and Ty Ty is surprised that he is having so much trouble getting men to dig with him for gold.
By the end of the novel, he has still not found any gold, but he has found more trouble than he can handle.Caldwell is capable at what he does, but I wouldn't make any claims of literary merit for it.
This sweet little tragicomedy had me grinning most of the way through.
Quirky, humorous and implausible sometimes, but wonderful because it's such an early example of the genre I love.
Caldwell likes repetition and it occurs almost as a chorus/refrain with this line: "These were the girls of the Valley whose breasts were erect and whose faces were like morning-glories when they stood in the window of the ivy-walled mill." Another line often used introduced me to a new word: "What in the pluperfect hell is an albino, Pluto?" Pluperfect, kind of the best way to describe this book after finishing!

What an incredibly disheartening, sad, revolting story...in a skillfully written book.
I picked this up because I wondered why this classic was never assigned in my American literature courses.
It is the story of a very poor southern farm family.
They are all immoral, shallow and uncaring people, who by the way, never farm the land but irrationally dig for gold that they have no cogent reason to believe exists.
I looked up the film on Turner Classics and read that it had a wonderful cast and crew.
Nevertheless I do not think that I could bear to watch a film about these miserable characters.

I wish this book did not exist.
I actively hated it, I hated the characters, I hated the author for dreaming up the characters, I hated the Era that would describe people and norms in this way.
I hated the readers who would think something this idiotic is titilating.
yet, I finished the book, because I could sense some sort of literary place it belonged to.
I saw outside the moronic behavior more than just the obvious tragedy of poverty and lack of educcagion, but the meta experience of the set of readers who at that time had probably not been exposed to characters such as these.
So funny it hurts. Caldwell is a seriously underestimated novelist.
Dentro una storia che vede contrapposti i lavoratori di campagnia – qui dediti perlopiù a cercare nella terra fantomatici filoni d'oro – e i lavoratori di città – più smaliziati, ma alle prese con la crisi industriale –, Caldwell forza la mano sul rapporto uomo-donna esaltando il ruolo delle pulsioni istintive...
che sarebbero ben gradite anche lassù in alto: “Se c'è una cosa che Iddio ama nel mondo è di vedere un uomo e una donna innamorati pazzi l'uno dell'altra.
Ciò significa, ai Suoi occhi, che il mondo cammina come deve camminare.” C'è dell'esagerazione che lascia perplessi, mentre sicuramente apprezzabili sono la scrittura di Caldwell e la traduzione di Vittorini.
And that’s a fact…Set primarily on an underutilized farm in Georgia and a cotton mill in Carolina, God’s Little Acre introduces the Walden family who have been digging for gold for over fifteen years to no avail.
A married daughter living in Carolina with her striking husband, a strong proponent of worker’s rights, represents the emergence of the industrial revolution and union representation.The family patriarch, Ty Ty Walden lusts for gold and his daughter-in-law.
This acre, rather conveniently, was moved quite often as he continued digging as he feared striking it big and having to turn it over.Darling Jill Walden, the youngest daughter, is sexually unrestrained and enjoys the pleasure of many men while her father chuckles.
Gli uomini sono mossi da una una vitalità fuori controllo, sbattuti da forze interiori prima che storiche.
Anche le scelte sulle cose della loro sopravvivenza (la coltivazione del cotone, la fabbrica, la ricerca dell'oro) le vivono come una febbre, come qualcosa di elementare che li rende irrazionali fino al delirio.
La fame domina su tutto, quella dei sensi e l'altra, incombente.Sulla trama vale la stessa essenzialità primordiale dei personaggi.
Il modo di esprimerla (lo stile dei dialoghi, soprattutto) funziona però così bene, è così coerente con tutto questo universo, non solo da reggere, ma da portare il lettore a sentirla emotivamente, quella realtà.
I wish I could give this book 4.5 stars.
It's so close to being a 5, but not quite.The novel is about the Waldens, a Southern family digging holes in their farmland in hopes of striking gold.
In a big, messy, dirty way.It seems like the point here is clear: get rid of God, bad stuff happens.
However, I don't actually think the book is about that at all.
The novel, with all its sexually deranged characters, is not trying to be moral.
If you can stomach it, the scenes in the novel will catch you off guard in a good way.
At first I was a little disturbed by this book's strange sexual dynamic, but as I continued to read I found myself identifying with several of the characters and understanding their choices and desires. Caldwell's language is occasionally poetic and moving. His characters are vivid and believable, and some are unexpectedly wise. I thought the ending was a little abrupt, but overall I enjoyed God's Little Acre. I think I learned something about human behavior that makes me feel a little less judgmental.
