https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/651044.The_Miernik_Dossier
They're famous for not doing that, or showing up in the wrong place or on the wrong day, wrong hour." Charles McCarryIn the 1980s I read just about every espionage book I could get my hands on.
In the course of our discussion about books he brought up Charles McCarry as one of those lost treasures.
So thanks to Mr. Penzler I brought McCarry to the front burner and had the pleasure this week of reading his first book THE MIERNIK DOSSIER.
Paul Christopher is an American agent in deep cover with a mandate to keep an eye on everyone and everything.
It goes like a bad joke: a bunch of spies from different countries enter a bar...
Zofia, it turns out, is traveling on an Ecuadorian passport.
(This document may well be genuine; it shows her true name and actual date and place of birth; no doubt Kirnov has an obliging friend in some Ecuadorian consulate.) Kalash, too, is a rare bird to appear at an Alpine outpost, and both Collins’ passport and mine are filled with suspicious visas and stamps.
His action had the effect of protecting his reputation with his superiors and also obliterated any traces of Christopher’s crossing over the plowed ground along the frontier.
But I had forgotten that this man was a master of the form.” This is my first exposure to Charles McCarry but apparently he was as equally adept.The story begins with Tadeusz Miernik and his small group of friends, all associated with the World Research Organization, an agency of the United Nations in Geneva, Switzerland.
The American, the Englishman and the Frenchman are all spies, and along with their superiors and allies, it is their reports that make up the “dossier” of the title.
Simultaneously the story expands to include road trips, defections and a terrorist organization.
A different style to my usual reading taste.
This spy story unfolds through phone taps, reports, character's version or interpretation of events.
Even though it was initially difficult to get into due to all the different perspectives it did suit the story as events played out.I couldn't with all honesty say that I enjoyed any of the characters on offer here - no doubt because I was suspicious of their motives within the story.
I found them all unappealing with the exception of Sasha the Russian Agent.
It is well written although I wasn't surprised by the ending.
The point of the trip, for Paul Christopher (an American agent under deep cover at the time), is to determine whether or not one of the group, Tadeusz Miernik, is indeed a spy from behind the Iron Curtain and mixed up with a small band of terrorists in the Sudan called the Anointed Liberation Front (ALF).
The characters are very well drawn, and the whole atmosphere of intrigue, deception and spycraft quickly engaged me so that I did not want to put this book down.Definitely recommended for those who enjoy Cold War-era spy fiction, and anyone who has maybe read McCarry's later works in the Paul Christopher series and missed this one.
"The Miernik Dossier" introduces the reader to the CIA agent, sometime poet, and polyglot Paul Christopher and the world during the middle years of the Cold War. The novel begins in Geneva, Switzerland in the late spring, where a Polish civil servant (Tadeusz Miernik) employed on contract with the World Research Organization (WRO) faces having to return to Poland pending the imminent expiration of said contract.
Not only does he leave the central question unresolved (was Miernik a spy or not?), he actually goes further: the reader is left wondering if the question mark that hangs over him or her at the end of the book is actually reflective of his or her own inability to decide on the truth.
The story centres around two people - Paul Christopher, a US deep-cover intelligence agent (and the hero of a series of Charles McCarry books), and Tadeusz Miernik, a Polish researcher who approached the Americans for refuge throwing up multiple questions about his identity as a spy, a double agent or otherwise.
He asks Christopher to help him accomplish that.And in the background is a Soviet plot to arm a revolutionary Islamic group in Sudan with the intent to topple the current government and throw Sudan into the Soviet camp.The basic question the reader has to answer is whether Miernik is a Polish agent, who, in order to somehow advance the Soviet operation in Sudan, is trying to elicit the sympathy and help of Christopher and the others, or is who he says he is, a simply man fearful for his life.Charles McCary does a great job in breathing life into each of these characters and muddying the waters further with each page.
Never heard of McCarry before reading recent NYTBR interview with mystery maven-guru Otto Penzler, who declared McCarry his favorite espionage novelist, living or dead.
I usually prefer a central point of view in mysteries, and suspected this was just a gimmick.
It requires you to interpret and construct the "evidence" in a way that usual mystery doesn't.
When sources started to contradict or corroborate, sometimes both, each other, it deepened the suspense in really exciting ways.
Or as Tacitus says, “They create desolation and call it peace.”I look forward to reading more of McCarry's novels.
If I were to ask for a spy book to be written for me, it might end up a lot like the Miernik Dossier -- Cold War suspicion, late-night border crossings, fancy European cocktail parties, double agents, religious & sexual tension, standard tradecraft and introspective anti-heros who die anyway.
The Miernik Dossier does both a careful and a playful job of teasing out this existential crisis that hounds the best agents in every country's Special Branch.
I originally learned about this author from a list Anthony Bourdain published of novels written by real spies.
This was a pleasure to read, both in the subject matter and in the style - the entire novel is basically a dossier from 1959 on Tadeusz Miernik, a Polish man who some people believe to be working for the Russians.
The novel was written in 1973 but contains an organization forming in Khartoum that will feel much less cold war and much more present day to a reader in 2016.
I will definitely look for more novels by this author.
A very good espionage novel written in the early 1970's. The story is told through various agent reports, transcripts, journal entries, etc. and when I saw the structure of the book I was a bit hesitant but the plot unfolded smoothly and each character was fully realized.
It is the first of McCarry's Paul Christopher novels and it is engrossing.
It is a measure of McCarry's skill that he manages ambiguity while at the same time neatly tying up the loose ends.Before now, the only Paul Christopher novel that I have read is McCarry's THE LAST SUPPER, which impressed me.
Now, I look forward to working my way through all of the Paul Christopher books.As I have written in other reviews, the espionage genre is a favorite of mine for light reading.
I had never heard of this book--which it turns out is the first of ten with a recurrent character.
It is quite good and really unusual in form, I think.
(I don't believe the others in the series follow the form, but I could be wrong about that.) It is, as the title suggests, a dossier--a collection of materials that support a narrative about a man named Miernik.
Only one set of materials--the reports of the recurrent character--resemble a conventional narrative.
Most of the materials are pretty cold and unemotional, but they resulting story isn't.
Makes le Carre seem like a writer for a "True Romance" magazine.
(M did not know the real contact call-response signal for meeting with ALF so he was not RICHARD) Apparently M was expendable from the beginning.Zofia and M may or may not have been brother-sister; but they were both Soviet agents.
K knew how to use its secret audio collection system (because he was the only non-smoker resident when the unnamed person sent CIA a note telling them that using a cigarette lighter as activation device was not consistent with his being a non-smoker.) Q overtly mentioned to Christopher that he new the American in charge at Khartoum (also there were numerous reports of meetings with Q)K coordinated the attack on the travellers in the desert with the attackers via his walkie-talkie.
Everyone is suspicious of Mernik, but why? Why are all these people really spying on him? This book is a jumble of people spying and suspicion that's unfounded and rather dull.
I read this book after it received high praise from Olen Steinhauer, whose spy novels I love.
(The novel is set in the "in the middle years of the Cold War," although no firm year is given.) He has requested his assignment with the WRO be extended, which has raised suspicions among the CIA and other intelligence agencies that Miernik is actually a Soviet spy.
Writers often strive to make their novels "seamless;" the Miernik Dossier is so full of seams, it makes Frankenstein's monster look well tailored by comparison.And yet, I found myself compelled to keep reading to the end.
Further investigation points to one man, and the Americans have a plan to turn this to their advantage.I don't have much experience with epistolary novels, but my limited exposure makes me feel they're problematic, chiefly because I don't believe people write with that much detail in their regular correspondence.
But, there's another problem.Part of the reason this novel is written as a series of documents, letters, diary entries, messages, reports, etc.
is to show how easy it is for intelligence agencies to distance themselves from the human subject of the investigation.
Killer, old school, pre-tech spy story.
The device works very well, and has the added bonus of differing perspectives clouding the truth, creating intrigue.
Whose story is closest to the truth?
For the reader, who is getting all the information from various, often differing, and limited perspectives, how do you assimilate the information into a story?
In the end, what is the story?
Instead of telling you a story by a trustworthy narrator, the author forces you to create the story using your own judgment.
Much of what we have today is in the realm of Jason Bourne movies.
(Full disclosure; I like the Borne movies and even the MI flicks, Whats-His-Face notwithstanding.) McCary is spy work, in the vein of LeCarre or Buchan.
That means it involves the mind; reading McCary always requires one to think, to evaluate, to pay attention.The present novel is composed as if it were a case report, full of reports from field agents, listening posts, Chiefs of Station, recovered documents, and so on.
This is the stuff of real espionage work, or as close as we can get to it without sitting for endless days in a cubicle reading mind-numbing reports on crop forecasts in the south of Jabip.Recommended.
A former CIA operative himself, McCarry presents the plot in a series of reports, telegrams, cyphers and other means of communication to piece together the life and death of Tadeusz Miernik, a seemingly bumbling Polish scientist who could lead a terrorist attack to set the Cold War aflame.
It is also the introduction of Paul Christopher, an operative who appears in several other books by McCarry.
On the other hand, I also just finished The Tears of Autumn which can leave you weeping--an excellent book, also bringing us an even more in depth study of Paul Christopher.
This seemed to me more a sort of "divertissement" than a real espionage novel.I have come to the Miernik Dossier after reading a bunch of other novels by the author, and luckily so, if not I am not sure I would have read a second one.Get me right, this is an OK book, its narrative device is quite original (the story is told out of a number of intelligence reports of different nature), the plot is good; but the later books by MCarry (and especially those featuring Pau Christopher) are miles above this one.
By the way, Christopher is present in this story, but his character is just sketched superficially, it has nothing of the depth it will reach in subsequent novels.So, all in all, a non essential piece in the overarching work of McCarry, which remains superior stuff.
#2 On Alan Furst's Top 5 Spy Books of All Time.
Furst says, "With “The Miernik Dossier,” Charles McCarry introduced us to Paul Christopher, the brilliant and sensitive CIA officer who would appear in a series of perhaps more widely known novels, such as “The Secret Lovers” and “Second Sight.” The book itself is the “dossier” in question: the reports and memoranda filed by a quintet of mutually mistrustful espionage agents, including a seductive Hungarian princess and a seemingly hapless Polish scientist, who undertake to drive from Switzerland to the Sudan in a Cadillac.
Deeply interesting and entertaining story dealing with espionage and told in the structure of an intelligence case file in which a puzzle is slowly and intricately pieced together through various intelligence reports and communiques involving six different characters and a trip by car from Geneva to the Sudan.
There is also a love story to be found within which is written with such poetic eloquence that it ranks McCarry as one of the most substantially emotive authors of the past century.
When it comes to novels of intrigue, McCarry is, indeed, like no other.
I understand why others like this book, but I am not as enthusiastic about it as some.
I *did* enjoy it, but the technique (gimmick?) of telling the story through a series of interviews, reports and debriefings gets stale after awhile.
I also found the story confusing occasionally and somewhat ambiguous and despite all the activity, the plot really amounts to nothing.
Indeed I’m thinking that might be the point of it.
I will say that it is very well written, enough in fact for me to try another McCarry book, but I can only recommend this one with reservations.
Told through internal documents, agent reports, interviews, and diary entries, The Miernik Dossier involves a number of agents from different countries, all traveling to Sudan.
The twists are subtle, much like Le Carre and Greene...depending on your version, the back cover may "spice up" the plot a bit.
Regardless, this is completely engrossing, and once you begin, you hardly notice the unique style in which the story is told.The book itself was written in the early 70s, with the story taking place in the late 50s.
An interesting observation is that it straddles the story between Europe and Africa (Muslim nations)...predating a shift in international concerns from Communist Europe to Arab nations.
This reads like a mystery: the characters are simple and the story is over-plotted.
It would be a fine book to read on an airplane.
It is a compelling page-turner.The author was ambitious in terms of viewpoint: the book is a a dossier of written reports where each character in the book takes turns recounting their view of events.
It feels a little bit like reality TV where the characters justify themselves by directly speaking to the camera.
But the conceit is unbelievable in that nobody would use that much poetry and description in an official report.
Since it is unbelievable why bother with it.
A spy story.
In the end he is killed but it is never clear which he was.
The story is set in about 1959 and involves a trip to the Sudan in an air conditioned Cadillac.Read on the Kindle.
A trip into Egypt with Kindle who people think is a spy, his sister, who almost certainly is, Collins, working for the British and the narrator, Paul Christopher and American spy.
A good story but I am still dubious about Miernick’s role at the end.
He is killed and may not have been an agent.
While others have used the "assembled documents" mechanism to tell complex spy stories, McCarry's take serves to highlight the inherent ambiguities of espionage, particularly for its practitioners.
At one point one of the characters talks about his work as coming in after the story's begun and leaving before it ends, which in some ways is the best synopsis I can give for the book.
You'll be left with nearly as many questions as you begin with, but the narrative style works exceptionally well to point just exactly how little you know when you're trying to feint and counter-feint against an opposing service.
