https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35247769-always-and-forever-lara-jean
❝One day all of this will be proof, proof that we were here, proof that we loved each other. It’s the guarantee that no matter what happens to us in the future, this time was ours.❞  After delaying my reading for as long as I possibly could when it comes to Jenny's books, I am finally bringing Lara Jean's story to a close. For sure this time lol. And I must say, my heart truly aches. Peter Kavinsky, Lara Jean, the Song/Covey family, and just these books in general are so near and dear to my he
After delaying my reading for as long as I possibly could when it comes to Jenny's books, I am finally bringing Lara Jean's story to a close.
Peter Kavinsky, Lara Jean, the Song/Covey family, and just these books in general are so near and dear to my heart.
I like to think that my boyfriend is the Peter K to my Lara Jean because five years later we're still going strong after high school and even in college.
Although it seems like the end of Lara Jean's story, in truth, it is only just the beginning of a whole new chapter of her life.
hands down my favorite jenny han book EVER. this was the perfect conclusion and it filled me with joy and warmth and nostalgia. i'm so in love with this book.(view spoiler)[~05/2016~50% of me is excited bc more lara jean and peter50% of me is dreading john. (yea i'm not a fan) (hide spoiler)]
4.5 starsI JUST LOVE LARA JEAN AND PETER SO MUCH. I'M CRYING BUT I'M FINE I SWEAR.
Definitely an improvement from book 2 in my opinion.I believe Always and Forever, Lara Jean is the most mature and well-developed of the TATBILB series.
Though I never personally experienced any large bumps in my pre-college journey or can relate to the difficulty in deciding to go away for school, I feel this book is genuine and authentic in expressing an obstacle many high school students face.Additionally, I was so happy the relationship troubles of book 1 and 2 appeared to be absent, leaving room for more mature, realistic dating troubles to ensue.
I've really enjoyed diving back into the life of Lara Jean and would definitely recommend this series to my followers (especially the audiobooks!)
Video review: to come!Video review book #1: https://youtu.be/WG3FNuRV-x8Video review book #2: https://youtu.be/jksUoL0a8eAInitially I was not thrilled that this duology had been extended into a trilogy but after reading it, I actually think this being the conclusion is appropriate.
I will be doing a full video review very soon, so stay tuned for that for more thoughts!IMO this was the best book of the 3.
Also, IMO, the books individually are 4 stars each, but the trilogy as a whole is more leaning towards a 5 stars.
I feel like that's something that only makes sense if you've read it (but I will try to expand more in my video review).
And sometimes a lighthearted and gentle read is all you really need.Compared to the other books in the series, Always and Forever, Lara Jean is my least favourite one.
Lara Jean bakes lots of cookies, does some crafting and hangs out with her boyfriend and her little sister.(By the way: which 11-year-old girl has seen the DiCaprio Romeo and Juliet movie a bazillion times and loves it?)Anyway, I just missed the action.The second thing that really bothered me is a big spoiler.
And the way Peter treated Lara Jean in PSISLY annoyed me a lot.
4.5/5I'm not sure if this one or To All the Boys I've Loved Before is my favorite in the series, but I am sure that I love it.
I love how it handles the stress and uncertainty surrounding graduating high school and starting college.
I love how it handles changing family dynamics.
And I love how much Lara Jean has matured throughout the series while also remaining her sweet self.
Now I just need one last book following 20-something Lara Jean trying to find her place in the world after college graduation - preferably with an appearance by John Ambrose McClaren please and thank you.
What I feel like before, during, and after reading this book:Always and Forever, Lara Jean is a marvelous conclusion to this trilogy.
I'm not convinced Lara Jean and Peter K.'s story ends in a duology.
When Jenny Han announced there will be a third and final book, I'm so delighted because my prayer to book gods for a one last hurrah has been answered and my waiting game is WORTH IT!
OMG I LOVE YOU JENNY HAN!
Thank you very much Jenny Han for sharing their story to us and making them part of our lives...forever.
LET THIS SHIP SAIL TO FOREVER.GIVE JOHN AMBROSE MCCLAREN A NEW LOVE LIFE.
3/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐“Never say no when you really want to say yes.” This was such a weak ending to a trilogy. As I said in my previous review, this book shouldn't exist. This series could easily be a duology and it would be a strong one. The last two books had nothing to offer plot-wise. Especially this one. This book entailed NO PLOT. I swear to God! NOTHING HAPPENED IN THIS BOOK. 325 pages of cutsy moments, mommy and daddy, domestic life and food! Ugh the food! It was more present than ever in this
Then she’ll be off to college with Peter, at a school close enough for her to come home and bake chocolate chip cookies on the weekends.Life couldn’t be more perfect!At least, that’s what Lara Jean thinks…until she gets some unexpected news.Now the girl who dreads change must rethink all her plans—but when your heart and your head are saying two different things, which one should you listen to?This book contained no conflict.
This book felt like a novella to me, of how things are with Peter and Lara Jean and her family.
This was honestly the only thing that happened in this book, regarding the plot.
JOHN AMBROSE MCCLAREN IS A BEAUTIFUL NAME.
I HOPE FOR MORE JOHN AMBROSE MCCLAREN.
I LIKE SAYING HIS FULL NAME OUT LOUD.
JOHN AMBROSE MCCLARENJOHN AMBROSE MCCLARENJOHN AMBROSE MCCLARENJOHN AMBROSE MCCLARENJOHN AMBROSE MCCLARENJOHN AMBROSE MCCLARENI wish I had a JOHN AMBROSE MCCLAREN.
Plus, Genevieve has no hold on him.
Just give me JOHN AMBROSE MCCLAREN and I will be a happy girl.
****I also want to note that even if Kavinsky's visit with Genevieve had nothing to do with cheating, it didn't seem like he considered Lara Jean's feelings.
All I'm saying is never settle for less.
2.25/5 stars   Don't be the girl who goes to college with a boyfriend.   I must have read an entirely different series than everyone else. I must have. It’s the only reasonable explanation.I always see reviews stating that these books are so cute and relatable? They leave me befuddled because I find them to be neither. Cute? No. Relatable? No. Annoying? Yes. Unnecessary? Yes.  Me, when this book was over:  Why did I even pick this up? Curse you adorable covers. I have always known you were my k
Was I suppose to like Lara Jean?
But after almost 300 pages of unnecessary detail, the last thing I possibly care about was if Lara Jean had toilet paper or not.
Someone please have a movie marathon with Lara Jean and show her that entire movie like three times.
Honestly this entire book I was just hoping Lara Jean would pull a Gabriella and dump Peter and go live her life boyfriend-free.
Honestly, Lara Jean and Peter have nothing in common at all.
Literally I fell asleep reading this book about 7 times and that's not an exaggeration.
I had the best time reading this trilogy and as always am inevitably sad to have seen this book end.I understand Lara Jean’s concept of writing the letters.
It helps us get our emotions in order and it absorbs all those overwhelming feelings, I personally think it’s a great idea.I love these people with all my heart.
In a lot of series we get to know more and more about the protagonist through the series but in this trilogy I feel like we’ve learnt most of the things about her in the first book and instead we’ve joined her in a journey of love and hope, and watched her grow.
here is what i need:- netflix to adapt the other books in the To All the Boys I've Loved Before series- Kitty to get her own series IMMEDIATELY.find other this-related opinions in my FULL REVIEW OF THIS WHOLE ASS SERIES, here: https://emmareadstoomuch.wordpress.co...------------I can’t even tell you how much I wanted to love this book.I reread To All the Boys I Loved Before in May of last year, and not liking it was the equivalent of when you bake cookies but something went wrong with the dough and they all run into one giant flat liquid-looking Thing with really unattractive chocolate chip lumps.In a word, DEVASTATING.I reallyreallyreally didn’t want to recreate that cookie-disaster level of sadness.
I am so excited about this but why is everyone shipping Lara and John whatshisface??
Like I've spent the last two books just waiting for Lara to get with Peter and if that all of a sudden changes with book three then I think I will cry.
Maybe I need to read P.S. I still Love You again because I just don't see the appeal for John with two last names that I can't remember.
I honestly spent the most of that book being like "who the hell is this John fellow and where is Peter?!" Is anyone else on the Peter ship or am I alone?
Post-reading notes (spoilers ahead but they're marked so you'll be fine) The goodies • Peter K. will win every "Boyfriend of the Year" award out there, hands down. • the Hamilton references warm my whole being to another level• Harry Potter references too melike• grumpy Peter K. is iconic• ooh lala rawr• I like to see that side of him more often tbh• authentic familial drama• hilariousness on literal point• I even lost count of how many times I laughed so hard throughout this book• this book is
take pity on me and marry me John Ambrose <3• Kitty's sass• (view spoiler)[Mr. Covey's cute proposal w Kitty, Peter and Lara Jean as secret videographers (hide spoiler)]• QT• all the baking• all of Lara Jean's and Peter K.'s deep appreciation and love for each other• you go guys you go
Excuse me, I must cry.P.S. Give my bb John Ambrose McClaren a girlfriend and a bucket of happiness already!
No puedo con este libro, fue demasiaaado adorable ❤.
No puedo con este libro, fue demasiaaado adorable ❤️.
Yes, she is.) Buuut I didn't love it as much as the first one (or the second really) and I think this is because the only conflict was Lara Jean/Peter doing the "will they won't they" stay together.
I still love the trilogy a lot though.Lara Jean is an adorable thing.
Who am I.) I also like how he can be a jock + Lara Jean literally scrapbooks and bakes cookies all t he time and = they WORK TOGETHER.
And Lara Jean is constantly like "oh they fit so well" but I never really saw it.
I really really liked this story, especially the way it ended. It’s bittersweet to part with it even though I just started the series like a week ago, BUT STILL.
Petition for there to be a second spin off trilogy following Kitty when she's older! Or Lara-Jean and Peter at college! Or an epilogue! OR ANYTHING PLZ JENNY?!?!?!?!?!
AHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!
4 Stars! sigh! Happy tears ❤❤❤I absolutely adored the conclusion to Lara Jean and Peter K's love story! The end had me smiling huge with tears rolling down my cheeks. Love this trilogy so much! Highly recommended for YA lovers.   It all started with a love letter.
I know Jenny Han will toy with my emotions but I don't care because LJ+PK = <3
What I want from this book:-More Song/Covey sisters cuteness and family moments-Lara and Peter navigating a healthy relationship-Lara Jean being her adorable endearing self-John Ambrose McLaren finding a nice girl that is not Lara JeanWhat I don't need:-John Ambrose inserting himself back into an already resolved love triangle
Or would it be best if they called it quits?I was going to give this book 4.5/stars but decided on 5 because of how it made me think of it and feel days after finishing reading."I suppose I'll say it all started with a love letter"Jenny Han writes a contemporary romance tale with realism rare in the YA world.
After reading though I appreciated that Jenny Han wrote her character with such flaws because even though as a reader I was sometimes annoyed, I was able to see the realism behind the character.
This series was so cute. As the last book it wrapped up everyone's story quite nicely.
if lara jean doesn't end up/stay with peter kavinsky i will pretend this book never happened

I loved that, as the books went on, the complexity of the issues Lara Jean and Peter face increases.
I felt like this book was super realistic, and the trials Lara Jean and Peter face were super relatable.
I've always related to Lara Jean and her struggles but I think this (followed closely by P.S I Still Love You) most strongly resonated with me.
I also love how sex positive this was and how Lara Jean and Peter’s first time attempting to have sex was handled.But it was the relationship between the Song Sisters that was my favourite aspect of this book (and series).
UPDATE, SEPTEMBER 21ST:A COVER!!!!!!!!WOAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!More Lara Jean and Peter K., please! =)
Using every chance he gets to practice braiding Lara Jean’s hair3.
His bachelor’s party for Lara Jean’s Dad4.
How he always compliments the best way he can Lara Jean’s baked goods 6.
Peter always trying to win Lara Jean’s dad and sisters *I think that’s the sweetest*7.
Peter thinking he isn’t good enough for Lara Jean.
Lol. But Peter aside, I think this finale is the perfect conclusion to the trilogy.
What I love about Lara Jean is her kind and forgiving heart.
I love her connection with each of the person she loves, with her sisters, her dad and Peter.
5 Stars!  “Is this how it goes? You fall in love, and nothing seems truly scary anymore, and life is one big possibility?”  I CANNOT CONTAIN MY FEELS!*swoons uncontrollablyThis conclusion of To All the Boys I've Loved Before trilogy was truly superb. It's THE PERFECT ending that I've been looking for. I hated Peter Kavinsky in P.S. I Still Love You but this book took all my rage away. Why? Because Jenny Han redeemed his character and it was all it took to make me swoon over him again.I rarely en
I CANNOT CONTAIN MY FEELS!*swoons uncontrollablyThis conclusion of To All the Boys I've Loved Before trilogy was truly superb.
Because Jenny Han redeemed his character and it was all it took to make me swoon over him again.I rarely enjoy YA these days so I was glad to find myself really loving this book from start to finish.
I loveeeeee!Favorite characters of all time: KITTY and CHRIS.After finishing the book, I felt like I was floating in a sea of clouds.
You can only imagine how I became elated and at the same time, quite sad that their story already ended.
It was totally a lovely conclusion.
