https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/606818.Holy_Blood_Holy_Grail
The photos creeped me out, and I daydreamed about the possibility that the Knights Templar really had links to Jesus Christ, and that the Freemasons were more than just a bunch of weird old guys that did some boring, yet secret, junk in an old building downtown.
Years later, a Freemason mistakenly left a lengthy message on our answering machine in Palm Desert, California.
He gave intricate, specific details about the intended receiver of the message's duties at an upcoming Freemason funeral.
Wish I'd transcribed it.
What I wish even more is that I went ahead and wrote a work of fiction largely based on it.
I must have picked this book up around the time it came out, which would have made me a sophomore in high school.When I became a "real" historian, I came to realize just how much of it was hyperbolic tripe but even as a youth, I understood that 90% was speculation (to put it kindly).The two things it did do for me were:1. Reveal a Dark Age world of Europe that I hadn't encountered before.2. Gave the alternate-history buff in me a whole new set of "what-ifs" to think about.
The fact that I read horribly written books about templars, and things of that ilk, is one of my shameful secrets.
I don't believe a word that I've read, but they suck me in.
That part in the Dan Brown book (don't remember if it was DaVinci or Angels) where he was listing off the books in that guy's library?
I have all those books...Oh the shame :)This book, as all similar books, could be about 200-300 pages shorter as they restate their theories in multiple ways.
This is one of the better written, however.
I read The Da Vinci Code and it made me want to read Holy Blood, Holy Grail, which was apparently the only book Dan Brown based his own research on.Only problem with all the "research"?
Holy Blood, Holy Grail is at best laughable.
I expected, at any chapter, for them to suggest that really aliens had come down and given vital information to a certain individual and that's the real secret.
I would think that anyone who read the Da Vinci Code would feel compelled to see where Dan Brown got his information.
Not a good point for Dan Brown and his best-seller.
I originally approached the book with the idea that even if the "history" was wonky, it will be entertaining to read. I was sorely disappointed. It was uphill all the way, especially in the middle, when you get bogged down in all those dynasties.However, I'm giving it two stars for the chapters towards the end. The speculations in there have given the myth-lover in me have one more go at the Bible, and the enigmatic figure of the Christ.Overall opinion? A boring book with some entertaining speculations.
It seems that Dan Brown may also have done so.The original book, and the revised edition I read several years later, put forward compelling arguments in favour of an alternative history of the established religious version propounded in canonical teaching.
Although cleared of plagiarism, Dan Brown appears to have drawn heavily on much of the source material as did the authors of 'Holy Blood, Holy Grail'.The authors at no point claim that their theories are fact.
They make it clear that they are putting forward a hypothesis regarding what might have taken place, based on many esoteric sources as well as sources accepted to be established historical fact.
BUT SAYING THAT HE HAD CHILDREN IS THE MOST RIDICULOUS THING IN THE WORLD!I read this book when it was first published and it's speculations have fertilized my thinking since then.
Even if the thesis is wrong, the wild, richly detailed landscape you cross with it is thought-provoking and conspiratorially satisfying.In the '90s some boson claimed to have fraudulently placed the priory of zion 'list' document in the French library where Baigent did his research, making Baigent's book total fiction.
But why should we believe this person's claims over Baigent's?
If the Holy Grail is your thing I recommend the old, anonymous QUEST FOR THE HOLY GRAIL.
Reading this book is like slogging uphill through a mudslide - after a while you lose track of where you are, and it doesn't seem worth the effort to keep going.
But I stand by my opinion, that lots of things are speculation.I heard about this book from a friend in church during our Unitarian Universalist bible study group.
When I get the time I look forward to reading it.----------------------------Excerpt from wikipedia article on Mary Magdalene:Pope Gregory the Great's homily on Luke's gospel dated 14 September 591 first suggested that Mary Magdalene was a prostitute: "She whom Luke calls the sinful woman, whom John calls Mary, we believe to be the Mary from whom seven devils were ejected according to Mark.
هناك الكثير من المعلومات التي يلزم للقارئ أن يكون لديه خلفية متينة عنها،، مثل تاريخ فرنسا الذي ورد بتركيز كبير على طول الكتاب،، وكان مهماً معرفته لتتبع سير الأحداث..
وتحدث الكتاب عن الجماعات الصهيونية المختلفة والدينية وعن بعض اللوحات الفنية والكتب والأدب والمسرحيات وربطها بموضوع الكتاب،، كما أورد الحديث عن أساطيرهم أهمها (أسطورة شمشون الجبار) ومدى تأثيرها على معتقداتهم وهيئاتهم وقواهم حتى يومنا هذا كل صفحة من الكتاب تحمل الأسرار والمفاجآت..
البحث المتعمّق في موضوع صلب المسيح أثار استنكاري،، العديد من المسيحيين حالياً يشككون في هذا الموضوع،، وقد عرض الكاتب تناقضات وردت في العهد الجديد ثم قام بعمل تحليل يقارب المنطقية لكنه ليس الصحيح،، فلو أنهم يؤمنون بما ورد في القرآن لكان هذا يغنيهم عن وجع الرأس!..
While much of the evidence in this has been debunked since it's writing, and most of the research has been called into question, this is an interesting book nonetheless, with much more depth, twists and turns than The DaVinci code, which stole many of these author's ideas.
If one approaches this with the right spirit; which is to say, with an open mind, but with the desire to do lots of independent research, it can become a wonderful real life detective story.
I hope to see someone pick these ideas up again, dust them off, and do the work that the authors didn't, giving us a real chance at looking at some of these theories honestly
The first half of the book is very well documented, and sets the reader up for the idea that the two authors are dealing with hard facts.
When the conjectures and meat of the book begin though the sources stop getting cited, and assumptions are made which have no basis except for the authors fantastical logic.
(Saying things like, of course this is well documented (but where?), or setting up as a premise something that they admit is unknown, and then turn the unknown into a truth later in the book, with no basis).
The book Holy Blood, Holy Grail is a book that presents many points of evidence showing fallacies in the Christian religion.
The book follows a loose chronological structure depicting how their research and findings proceeded.Overall, the book is very controversial and also very interesting.
While most books that argue against a group or idea are merely propaganda, this book backs up all of its claims and ideas with facts and primary sources of evidence.
I also applaud the efforts of the authors because of how much time had to go into researching this.
Alrighty....Here's another tin foil hat conspiracy book.
Holy Blood Holy Grail was dragged into English court as part of the authors complaint of plagiarism against Dan Brown's The Manet Code...HAHAHA..Da Vinci.My joke and the lawsuit and the book are all similar to Dan Brown's Oeuvre by being boring and poorly written.
That might have been Leigh and Baigent's best argument.What offends me about this book is that it takes something that is fundamentally interesting (the history of the gospels, the history of the city-state politics of the times of the crusades) and makes it boring and dumb.
Probably the oldest surviving piece of hot gossip still in circulation: Jesus had an affair with Mary Magdalene, which resulted in a child. Members of the post-Dan-Brown generation may have trouble believing this, but I hadn't heard a single rumour before I read this book. Really!
This book should be under fiction instead of religion, as the conspiracy put forth in it is so obviously a bunch of hookum that anyone who actually reads the book should be able to see that their sole source is playing them for reasons that never become clear.
This is the sort of book that brings out the worst sort of conspiracy nuts -- those who will believe it because they want it to be true, not because there is actual proof or overwhelming evidence that it true.
(I happen to believe there are conspiracies, just not this one.)
Just because the authors didn't intend it to be fiction is neither here nor there.
However, it is actually possible to learn a lot about theology from reading this book.
References to the Early Church fathers, the gnostics, the Cathars, Templars etc are plentiful, and more importantly these references usually direct the reader to original sources.It's all thrillingly bonkers, and yet, after reading it, you'll still feel a might sad that the whole thing turned out to be a load of old tosh written by some aged school boys who, unwittingly, got themselves royally punk'd by another aged school boy by the name of Pierre Plantard.I thought it was a lot of fun.
I wasn't suprised at all that the authors of this book sued Dan Brown over the DaVinci Code. He could have had this book open and used whole sections of it. The plot of this book actually follows the DaVinci Code in many aspects. What I enjoyed about this book is the research. It does take a few chances, and it clearly states that it is speculative history, but it made me see the Gospels in a whole other way. I can't recommend it enough.
As a person with the complex of skepticism, I try to logically explain most of the events that occur, and honestly in the history school books there are lots of ridiculous information (can't call them facts) for which I feel pity that kids are obliged to learn them.
Obviously I am skeptical about the historians as well.Going back to the content of the book above, I think that the three authors/researchers developed a critical way of thinking about the historical events by using logic and being constructive.
أسطورة الكأس تعبر إحدى الميثولوجيا المسيحية حيث يعتقد أنها الكأس التي استخدمها المسيح في العشاء الأخ
I found the theories and 'supporting ideas' quite interesting.
I suppose that says something about my ability to be open minded.
I'm open minded, so long as I feel its plausible.
One would think that would be big news and surely one diciple would have let it slip.
Surly some hint would survive any attempt by the church to censor it.Could Jesus and his diciples have purposely faked his death at the cursifiction?
Sorry, my open mind just clamped shut.
As I said, this probably says more about me than the level of support for the theory.

I read this book to my father long before Dan Browns ‘Da Vinci Code’ was published.
Whether it is historically accurate or not I'm still not sure, but there are plenty of references provided should the reader wish to check up on facts.
The bit about the possibility that Jesus might have married Mary Magdalene and there is a descendent waiting to lead a world government I’m not so sure about, but who knows?
What a load of bunk! This offends me because it is so speculative that the authors should have called it fiction, and been honest about it.
I remember reading this in 1983 and being quite shocked about it at the time. Later it became the basis for Dan Brown's The Da Vinci Code (2003) whether he acknowledged that or not.Saying goodbye to several dozen books due to a water damage incident and I thought I'd write at least a little memorial to each of them and why I kept them around.
Me lo sono divorato, molto ma molto prima di quella zozzeria del codice Da Vinci: scritto come un reportage giornalistico di alto livello su un argomento tabu', ben documentato e soprattutto credibile.E poi si scopre che era tutta una truffa, e che Plantard aveva truffato gli autori del libro e non solo, raccontando un sacco di panzane e fabbricando le prove ad hoc. Sob.
Well, aside from a few places where the authors glaringly contradicted themselves within a couple of pages of making statements (or it may have been just the translation, who knows?) this was a pretty decent read!
Well, that was entertaining nonsense at least. Completely discredited as being based on a hoax, but still mostly quite enjoyable. It’s fascinating to experience conspiracy minds at work.
IF these men are such WONDERFUL researchers (and I'll take them on their word that they are-- again, I don't really care), they should know how to use footnotes, editing, and the structure of a book to make it at least ONE of these 3 things:a) more educational.
I don't feel particularly more educated, partially because I think I'm used to reading books by people who know how to write, and write really well.
I'm also used to reading books by people who have some sort of knowledge of the field they're writing about.
Most of the theory presented is based, as the authors readily admit, on an obscure collection of typewritten documents put into archives in France around 1956, which claim to be the records of a group that has existed for centuries, combined with a series of speculations that weren’t even endorsed by the originator of those documents (Pierre Plantard).
In 2003, novelist Dan Brown based “The Da Vinci Code” on this book, giving its thesis a new lease on life, and no doubt vastly boosting sales.
