https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2195464.What_I_Talk_About_When_I_Talk_About_Running
Something about the time and place and just all the circumstances match up and you know you read the book at the perfect time?
We learn about Murakami's methods, his work ethic, why he became a writer in the first place, what keeps him writing now.
Sure, this was about running, but it was really about a person who loves something, and I learned so much from his determination and passion and consistency.It was such a meditative reading experience for me, a chance to listen to someone talk about their life and the lessons they've learned, through a journal on running and writing.
When I’m not reading, writing or cycling to work, then I’m running.
As strange as it may sound, I don’t think I’d be able to write a single review on here or even read a single book if I didn’t run regularly.
Running is such a healthy thing to do, and, as Murakami recognises, for some people it is essential for mental balance.
As a treat to myself, I’m actually running it on my birthday.The book takes on the form of a memoir and relays the memories of the author as he trained, competed and eventually reflected upon his experience.
I know not all my adoring fans will necessarily enjoy this unconventional little piece, but if it helps a few poor schlumps discover the benefits of running, well then my work is not in vain!I ran 15 miles yesterday, and not a few of those can be dedicated to Murakami, who really isn't a bad running buddy at all, as far as things go.
Again, I don't quite see how anyone who isn't a distance runner could get much from this book, and in fact I got bored towards the end when he started talking about triathlons, as I personally don't swim or bike.
Hashiru koto ni tsuite kataru toki ni boku no kataru koto = What I Talk About When I Talk About Running, Haruki Murakamiعنوانها: از دو (دویدن) که حرف میزنم از چه حرف میزنم؛ وقتی از دویدن صحبت میکنم در چه موردی صحبت میکنم؛ نویسنده: هاروکی موراکامی؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز نخست ماه آوریل سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: از دو (دویدن) که حرف میزنم از چه حرف میزنم؛ نویسنده: هاروکی موراکامی؛ مترجم: مجتبی ویسی؛ تهران، چشمه، 1388؛ در 183 ص؛ شابک: 9789643627553؛ چاپ سوم 1389؛ چاپ چهارم 1390؛ در 179 ص؛ چاپ ششم 1394

Breakfast was delicious afterwards.Listening to Murakami share about himself - his daily running schedule- his running in Hawaii- his attempts to answer the questions “what does he think about when he is running” MIGHT EVEN BE MORE ENJOYABLE - or at least as much - TO THE NON RUNNER - than the runner.
I don’t think I would’ve enjoyed this audiobook as much when I ‘was’ a runner, as much as I did now.
The only people who ever even ask him the question of what he thinks about when he’s running are people who have never been running and don’t have a clue.
Running my eyes like a squirrel, I was surveying the titles one after another when they came to a halt – they spotted a pristine white cover with a circular swirl in blood red.
My journey with him went through Hear the Wind Sing, 1Q84, Kafka on the Shore, Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage, The Strange Library, Kino and Scheherazade and here I am, entering my eighth year with the most wonderful ‘What I Talk About When I Talk About Running’.In this heart-warming, inspiring, anecdotal memoir, Murakami talks about his difficult decision to close his profitable and popular restaurant to dedicate time to writing (which he had just begun doing), and falling on the crutches of running to keep him going.
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge #19: A book about or involving a sportThis book was fantastic!
I have yet to read any of Murakami's novels, but after reading this book I will be sure to pick one up soon (I own six of them, after all.) While I wish he had talked about writing a bit more than he did, I genuinely enjoyed hearing him speak on running and what it means to him.
I feel like reading this book and getting to know Murakami a bit better will help me enjoy his novels even more when I do eventually read them.
"Nothing in the real world is as beautiful as the illusions of a person about to lose consciousness."Murakami's mind has always fascinated me; that he transcends the normal and dull, spreading them into a realistic, dreamlike, colorful, soulful reality, amazes me.
And I think when most of us read someone that fascinates and/or amazes us, we want to know what that person is like -- what makes him or her tick.
While this is happening your consciousness -- while in part far more adeptly aware than normal (because of the pain) – also seems to float away, allowing you to view your reality from high above.
Murakami shares a lot of intimate details about his life that fans of his writing may really enjoy.Before he took up running, Murakami said he was overweight and smoked around 60 cigarettes a day.
For Murakami, writing is how he makes his art.I liked that, even though Murakami loves running and extols its virtues, he says that he never tells other people that they should take it up.
He thinks that our life paths reveal themselves to us in a unique way that only we know.He runs because he loves it.
This was great! But I was kind of hoping it would make me want to quit smoking and start being a runner. It did not. If anything, it solidified my already-pretty-solid hatred of the idea of running. God damn stupid healthy Haruki.
If you are a runner, this book is very inspiring.
We learn of why Murakami decided to become a writer, leaving behind his jazz bar and how he also committed to running a marathon every year.
He has run marathons everywhere including the original Marathon to Athens route (albeit in the wrong season!) and about other long-distance races he ran in.
He is a fascinating man (who SO deserves a Nobel!) and you get an intimate view of perhaps the greatest Japanese writer at the end of the 20th C and beginning of the 21st.
Haruki Murakami’s What I Talk About When I Talk About Running pairs running and the art of writing (and its demands on focus and endurance).
After reading Murakami’s Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage a few weeks ago, I had wanted to read more from this author.
Admittedly, What I Talk About has a very different (one might say non-literary) quality which differentiates it from his novel.
Still, it was an interesting account in which Murakami describes a nearly lifelong connection between running and how that running impacts his writing, and between aging and the potential decline of creative and physical power.
I must say that I am very thankful to this book for getting me back into the habit of running and giving me a ready made excuse to spend 45 minutes of my time thus.
The really cool thing about this book is that it's also about authority.
It's sort of idiotic because half of it is sort of devoted to the translated use of "sort of" and "kind of." I used to like Geoff Dyer, but I think he just pretty seriously slipped.
Instead, Geoff Dyer condescends to Murakami (a man who's written how many novels and run how many marathons?) when Dyer suggests that Murakami is uncool for listening to Clapton or the Lovin' Spoonful!
If just to please Geoff Dyer, you ask what was I listening to?
An easy read but very simplistic and very repetitive. Not a runner myself, prefer walking so didn't really relate to that part. The parts about how he started writing was fairly interesting but all in all was disappointed in this book as a whole. Did quite a bit of skimming.
Và tuy không đề cập đến nhiều trong tác phẩm, nhưng có thể hình dung ra việc ông duy trì kỷ luật trong các sinh hoạt khác của đời sống hằng ngày ra sao.Điều này không khó hiểu khi Murakami là người Nhật( ai cũng biết người Nhật coi trọng kỷ luật như thế nào) và bị ảnh hưởng nhiều bởi lối sống và văn hóa Mỹ.Việc đọc 2 cuốn sách gần như kế tiếp nhau, giúp cho mình có nhiều suy nghĩ và so sánh giữa 2 phong cách sống.
Spare and meditative. I'm not a runner (more of an elliptical guy) but this book is as much about aging, creativity, acceptance, and finding your own peace with who you are (ok, that sounds way more new agey than I mean) as marathons. Murakami fans will recognize the author's lean, simple prose and new readers may find an easy introduction to Murakami's work. Don't be fooled by the slim nature of this volume; you can tell Murakami put a lot of soul into What I Talk About When I Talk About Running.
Δεν είναι άλλος από τον παλιό μας φίλο, την Πραγματικότητα»  Είχα καιρό να διαβάσω τον αγαπημένο μου Χαρούκι και ομολογώ ήταν λίγο περίεργο να διαβάζεις ένα απόλυτα νορμάλ βιβλίο χωρίς συμβολισμούς και τα φναταστικά στοιχεία που κάνουν τα βιβλία του τόσο συναρπαστικά.
Να σας πω την αμαρτία μου πάντα αναρωτιόμουν πώς να ναι ο άνθρωπος μουρακάμι, ποια η καθημερινή του ρουτίνα, πως κατεβάζει ιδέες για τα βιβλία του τα οποία είναι πάντα ιδιαίτερα.
Para um corredor como eu, o que verdadeiramente importa é conseguir os objectivos que me proponho, ir até onde as minhas pernas me levam.
Dou tudo o que tenho, aguento tudo o que tenho de aguentar, e obtenho, à minha maneira, o que para mim conta." (p.
179)Já perdi a conta aos Murakamis que li.
Não me canso da sua escrita agradável e desataviada.Este livro de memórias, de ensaios, quase auto-ajuda, levou-me a colocar a preguiça de lado e a voltar a correr, depois de largos meses de uma inactividade que começava a interferir com o meu bem-estar.
Invejo a sua resiliência e determinação.
پاییز باشه، هوا سرد باشه، اتاق گرم و شومینه روشن باشه، فنجانی چایی باشه و صدای نم نم بارون پاییزی باشه، در کنار همه اینها کتابی از موراکامی باشه، اونم کتابی که بیشتر از هر نوشته ی دیگه ی این نویسنده احساس صمیمیت و همصحبتی رو به خواننده انتقال بده...
تموم اینا، دست به دست هم دادن و شب زیبایی برام ساختن.
کتاب یجور صحبت صمیمی بین نویسنده و خواننده اس که توش نویسنده داره از تاثیرات رشته ورزشی خودش (دو) در نویسندگی و زندگی شخصیش میگه ولی نمی دونم چرا احساس صمیمی بودن نوشته ها رو بهم داد کتاب، انگار یجور مصاحبه شخصی با نویسنده داشتم!
خیلی لذت بردم
EDIT 10/1/2016: é più di un mese che alle sei vado a correre, pioggia, Natale e capodanno compresi :3) (Comunque c'è gente più sciroccata di me che domenica alle sei va a lavare la macchina, parliamone!)Affinché sia chiara la profondità di questa cosa, io sono di quelle persone che in inverno andrebbe in letargo, che alla frase "Dai corriamo, passa l'autobus" io risponderei con un "Piuttosto mi impicco" e soprattutto è molto probabile che quando nel mondo distribuivano l'attitudine allo sport, io mi stessi nascondendo dietro la colonna per non essere beccata.
Non penso che Murakami sia la persona più simpatica del pianeta e anzi..
Haruki Murakami - http://ow.ly/UApn30a5b7m
The book, of course, takes its title from Raymond Carver's early short story collection, which Murakami had translated into Japanese.He's merciless in his honest assessment of his achievements both literary and athletic, and there are some great descriptions of runs, including one in sweltering conditions from Athens to Marathon (site of the first marathon), and an "ultramarathon" (62 miles) that was so punishing he could barely walk afterwards.I used to run regularly, but hardly the sort of distances depicted in the book.
Reading this master craftsman makes me want to head back outside again, if only for the mind-clearing rush.Maybe it'll happen.
I used to type messages and compose faux-poetry on GoodReads during my walks, until I tripped over a fallen branch on the footpath and almost broke my arm towards the end of last year.Apart from these injuries, I found that walking as soon as I woke up (usually to get home) cleared my mind and boosted my mental energy, so that when I started work or my writing, I was ready to commit a full day to the task.
I've almost been run over three times on my walks, twice by buses and once by a cyclist being chased by a magpie.I broke my arm a few months ago, in a fall on the courtyard outside our home.
این کتاب در واقع یک زندگی نامه یا بیوگرافی از زندگی موراکامی به زبان خودش است. کتابی بسیار تاثیرگذار که میشه خیلی چیزا ازش یاد گرفت و به عنوان الگو تو زندگی پیادش کرد. نکته مهمی که تو زندگی موراکامی تقریبا تو همه کاراش بوده این بوده که هرکاری که کرده از روی علاقه انجامش داده و نه از روی اجبار و اینکه خودشم تا جایی که میتونسته کسی رو به انجام کاری تشویق نکرده حتی نویسندگی و دویدن.
Even when my schedule got busy, I kept up with my regular running and had to admit there was something more than my initial reasons for starting to run.Murakami helped to crystallize this motivation for me.
I’m happy to say that Murakami helped to get through a run that I would have abandoned before his audiobook.
Thanks to this audiobook I’m a better runner, and I believe it’s helped out my writing too!
I read this book some years ago but didn’t get around to capturing my thoughts on it.
I’d run the London Marathon in 1982 (the second year it was held) and I’d pretty much not run since, albeit I’d been active playing football, tennis and just about everything else through the remainder of my 20’s and into my early 30’s.
It took some time but eventually I got to a point that I thought I’d give another marathon a go.So London 2009 it was.
I’d read, and enjoyed, a couple of Murakami’s novels and spotting this one seemed prophetic in some way.
In this book Haruki Murakami writes about his running life, doing marathons and triathlons.
He writes about the successes and failures, the effect of ageing and his reasons why he runs and keeps running.
For me, I felt the first half of the book was more clear and easy read than later, a bit like running a marathon can be.
It's an easy read, not too long.
Although I know I will never pick up running - love my knees too much to wear them out more, among other things - it's interesting to read what it's like for those who do.
خواستم اول پنج ستاره بدم ولی خب خودمو کنترل کردم، اون قدرا هم شاهکار نبود که!!
ولی خب دوسش داشتم.
یه جایی هاروکی میگه هیچ کس نمیتونه شخصیتی مثل من رو دوست داشته باشه.
من دارم:-) میدونید از سختکوشی و هدف داشتنش خوشم اومد و اینکه چقدر خوب برای اعمالش و رفتارهاش و لحظه لحظه ش دلیل داره، حتی اگه مسخره باشن و حتی اگه مجبور باشه برای خودش یه هدفی بتراشه تا فقط انگیزه و امیدش رو از دست نده و این یه درس خیلی مهم بود برای من.
و دومین نکته مهم برام صداقتش بود.
نثرش رو هم دوست داشتم.
ولی خب دوسش داشتم.
یه جایی هاروکی میگه هیچ کس نمیتونه شخصیتی مثل من رو دوست داشته باشه.
من دارم:-) میدونید از سخت‌کوشی و هدف داشتنش خوشم اومد و اینکه چقدر خوب برای اعمالش و رفتارهاش و لحظه لحظه ش دلیل داره، حتی اگه مسخره باشن و حتی اگه مجبور باشه برای خودش یه هدفی بتراشه تا فقط انگیزه و امیدش رو از دست نده و این یه درس خیلی مهم بود برای من.
و دومین نکته مهم برام صداقتش بود.
نثرش رو هم دوست داشتم.
دوست دارم یه بار سخنرانیش هم گوش کنم.
اولش خیلی خوب داشت پیش میرفت و من حسابی داشتم کیف میکردم که چه قدر خوب تجارب شخصیش رو بدون اینکه حالت نصیحت یا باید داشته باشه با ما به اشتراک گذاشته. اما به نیمههای کتاب که رسیدم واقعا برام خسته کننده بود و تبدیل به تکرار مکررات شد. البته قطعا این نظر شخصی منه.با این حال نیمه اولش اونقدری خوب بود که بهش سه امتیاز رو بدم. به پشتکارش پنج میدم!-----------------------------------بخشهای ماندگار کتاب:برای ادامه کار باید ریتم را حفظ کرد....وقتی جوانتر بودم آنچنان که میخواستم وقت آزاد زیادی نداشتم، اما
به پشتکارش پنج می‌دم!-----------------------------------بخش‌های ماندگار کتاب:برای ادامه کار باید ریتم را حفظ کرد....وقتی جوان‌تر بودم آنچنان که می‌خواستم وقت آزاد زیادی نداشتم، اما حداقل مثل حالا کارهای روزمره گوناگون نبود....جنبه‌ی رقابت مرا معذب می‌کند....من اصلا اهل رقابت نیستم.
بهتر است بگویم، آدمی هستم که تنهایی برای من دردناک نیست....وقتی حق انتخاب داشتم بیشتر ترجیح می‌دادم تنها باشم و کتاب بخوانم و به موسیقی گوش بدهم تا وقتم را با کسی بگذرانم....همیشه می‌توانستم به فکر چیزهایی باشم که خودم به تنهایی انجام دهم....اهمیت معاشرت با دیگران را آموختم و نکته‌ی جالب اینجاست که بشر نمی‌تواند تنها باشد.
