https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/358297.If

This little book convicted me in so many ways and in so many areas.
I decided to put a sticky note on the "ifs" that were especially meaningful to me, so that I can go through later and be reminded.
"If" is a book about true love.
Not mushy, gushy, feel-good love, but hard and overwhelming love that brings victory.
Were I to give this book as a gift, I would bundle it together with The Greatest Thing In the World by Henry Drummond.
If you want to learn more about love, these two books are a wonderful place to start.
An easy read in terms of time commitment but not so easy in terms of reflection on my heart.
Love to read and reread.For a taste...If I belittle those whom I am called to serve, talk of their weak points in contrast perhaps with what I think of as my strong points; if I adopt a superior attitude, forgetting "Who made thee to differ?
And what hast thou that thou hast not received?" then I know nothing of Calvary love.If the ultimate, the hardest, cannot be asked of me; if my fellows hesitate to ask it and turn to someone else, then I know nothing of Calvary love.
Throughout the second section of the book are many brief thoughts of Amy's that challenge you quickly and force you to evaluate your motives for loving others.
It is a very quick read but one that will challenge you in many ways more than others that are much longer.
I encourage the reader to set aside a good two or three hour period of time to read and ponder Amy's words.
This book is one that I plan to return to time and again and use it as a way of evaluating my work in church ministries.
So humbling and grounding. It's very short but should be a lifelong companion. I can imagine certain "If"s speaking to me later in my life more than they do now. And just, after making my way through the list, my own love feels so inadequate and imperfect in comparison. During and afterwards you just completely acknowledge your dependence on the Source.
This is a short but powerful read. I was a hot mess after this book. It is one I will want to revisit over and over again.
Tiny book... but must be read in small portions. This is deep, convicting material.
The other Sunday, about a month ago, when we had prayer for healing I came up and was prayed over. I don't remember who, but someone prayed that I would receive a word from God, or something to that extent. After she finished her request, she left a second or two of silence and the word “Love” reverberated in my head. I knew that it was God speaking to me (this,actually, was the point in the prayer where I began to cry, that single word “love” brought the tears flowing) but I didn't know why. W
I don't remember who, but someone prayed that I would receive a word from God, or something to that extent.
I knew that it was God speaking to me (this,actually, was the point in the prayer where I began to cry, that single word “love” brought the tears flowing) but I didn't know why.
I spent time in prayer asking God why this was the word he had placed in my heart and in my mind and he revealed to me that it is because I don't understand His love.
I felt that it showed very clearly some key points in understanding God's love.

This short "essay" challenges my walk of love...it makes the prayer of the Apostle Paul all the relevant; ".....
It is a good early morning read just before going out to face the day..you will be forced to check your heart's response to each challenge that that day will bring...next to Calvary love...This short "essay" challenges my walk of love...it makes the prayer of the Apostle Paul all the more relevant; ".....
It is a good early morning read just before going out to face the day..you will be forced to check your heart's response to each challenge that that day will bring...next to Calvary love...
It takes the wonderful If statements by Amy Carmichael and adds a scripture passage and prayer to each one.
Each statement gets its own page with its own accompanying scripture and prayer.
But I found that instead of enhancing or continuing the message of the statements, the scriptures and prayers often went a different direction.
The point is, that for me, I spent more time jarred by the disconnect between statement and scripture or statement and prayer than I did appreciating or learning or devotioning.
I'm chalking this one up to a case of the right book at the wrong time.
This book came at perfect time in life. Where ive grown numb after dispersing so much hope and love for a special someone to finally surrender herself to Christ. I needed these words. Amy definitely has a gift. This is a book that makes you understand how far you are from where you want to be. Thankful for this
It is very good and makes me pause every time.
Whereas the first time all I could consider was how this applied to my ministry with my kids, this time all I could think was how it applied to fellow workers in the Body of Christ.
There is so much discord and division that all I could think is that if I harbor any I'll will or resentment "I know nothing of Calvary love." How much I need this reminder!
I know I will be visiting this again in the future.July 29, 2016 to August 6, 2016Even better the second time around.First read July 2014
A short book, but it packs a punch.
The most significant section of the book is Part II where Amy recounts her many Spirit-inspired, Spirit-given "If" statements.
Each one follows the pattern of If ...
In the preface/introduction, Amy indicates that she thinks the "then I know nothing of Calvary love" seems harsh, but these were the words given her by God and she was loathe to weaken them.A book that convicts me in many ways that I, indeed, know less about Calvary love than I thought I did, and ought.Probably not a book for the new believer, but for one who is maturing.
To live as Christ requires the watering of the Word on the heart and soul to wash and refresh it from the stench and filth of the world, the enemy, and the flesh.
IF, is filled with many short, deep thoughts based on God's love letters to us that help apply the Word to our everyday moments.
A great pocket size book to pull out in those few minutes before an appointment, at a red light or while catching a few minutes alone in the closet to regain focus while the children are knocking on the other side of the closet door....
so we can once again live out Calvary Love.
The short "If..."s cut deep to the heart, but they are good words that both upbraid and inspire.
This short volume carries a weight of understanding of what "Calvary love" truly is.
I am often wounded when I read one of the short passages.
Yes, I know little of Calvary love, but as Amy states, the "Searchlight of the Spirit" exposes not to "rob us of our hope," but if, "hating unlove from the ground of the heart, we cry to be delivered, then our God will be to us a God of deliverances."
Unique contemplative preparation as Lent reaches the beginning of Holy Week. Amy Carmichael challenges with her life responses in light of the love modelled in I Corinthians 13. Much to reflect upon in the reading. A slowing of the narration would serve the listener in increasing the meditative nature and value of Ms Carmichael's thoughts.Finding this Christian Audio recording on hoopla was a much appreciated gift.
A short but profound book. Humbling, confronting and inspiring. I found this book challenged my concept of God's Love and took me deeper into His heart. Even though it's short and can be easily read through in one sitting, it is the kind of book that I find myself reaching for to read a page or two most days. Every time, my spirit is quickened. Highly recommend it to anyone wanting to grow in the Love of God.
Wise wordsFrom a woman with faults, yet who loved the Lord passionately....and love covers a multitude of sins. She makes clear the grace flowing like an endless river with unseen supply. And too, love instead of love. A very short book that includes some of Amy Carmichael's poetry. All in all a book which causes one to love the Lord even more. What could be better?
This is an amazing little book of reflections on what it means to love with "Calvary Love". It is very convicting as I reflect upon whether I am living according to these precious observations. This book would make a perfect devotional. It is humbly presented; Amy never claims to have attained to each of these areas of Calvary Love, but it is a heart yearning.
This book is a book that is a must to read and be reminded often as we read this book. I asked my wonderful friend what books that changed her life. She told me about this book. Clearly, I can see why and I cried as I read this wonderful book and we all do need to read this wonderful short book. Thankful for Amy Carmichael for writing this book.This book is part of the #vtReadingChallenge.
This is a very small book, however, one that must be read one page at a time, one day at a time to appreciate the significance of every written word. This book rests on my side table as a beautiful reminder of the importance of Calvary
Amazing book! It's not very long, but it will impact your life in a great way! Sometimes you can only read one "if" a day cause they are so thought provoking. Amy Carmichael has an amazing Testimony of God's love and grace in her life!
Short but insightfulThis little book requires more time than what is needed to read it to fully benefit from it. Beware of Old English. Can be awkward in places due to the language.
Easily one of my top five favorite authors. Sadly, many of her books are out of print. I was able to purchase some many years ago. Amy Carmichael had a large impact on my life during my formative years. A profound devotion to a profound God.
Very beautiful, poetic words to describe love. It is insightful and inspirational without being fluffy at all, and is in fact very convicting. This will be a favorite that I will return to many times.
A booklet really, not even a book. If I did this or that, I would not have Calvary love...amazing in its simplicity. Thought provoking and reminds us to surrender to the Lord who gave it ALL for us!
A lovely devotional book exploring the theme of Calvary Love and if I have it.Quote: ' Lord, what is love? Love is that which inspired My life, and led Me to My Cross, and held Me on My Cross. Love is that which will make it thy joy to lay down thy life for thy brethren.'
Especially comforting to me at this time.
very convicting
