https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119561.The_Order_of_Things
In this sense animals were 'marked' by this original categorisation and so if we could only re-create these marks - these essentially linguistic features - we would know something worth knowing of the mind of God, of the mind of the creator and therefore something very important about how to order the animal kingdom.With the Classical period there was a fundamental shift away from seeking this kind of representational identity between words and animals - now the task of natural history was pretty much to create a huge grid and for that grid to be filled with animals according to some or other organising principle.
لنتفق أنّ قراءة فوكو مرهقة لأنّهُ يستقرئ المعرفة بطريقة أفقية ؛ فخطابه من أوله لآخره تاريخي وفي الآن ذاته يحفر بعمق العمق .
حاولت فهم منهجه وآلية تفكيره لكنني لم أصل حتّى الآن لتصوّر واضح وعلمي ومتكامل لكن سأحاول إيجاز ما خلصت به من هذا الكتاب على هيئة نقاط .- الأشياء تتغيّر ليس وفقًا لحاجات البشر وإنَّما لخدمة سلطة ما .-فوكو أراد الشّك في كلّ شيء.
- لماذا يصرّ فوكو على إدخال الأدب في كتابته ؟ أو لماذا يبدأ من منطلق أدبي ؟ لأنّ المعرفة دون الأدب حتمًا منقوصة .-الإصرار على لغة الاستعارة والمجاز والفن التشكيلي لأن الفنانين أنصاف فلاسفة لكنّهم أكثر بكثير من الفلاسفة ، أو كما قال نيتشه : كل الحقيقة استعارات.- مشكلة فوكو ليست ميتافيزيقية هو يرى قابلية الفكرة بالعصر وحيثيات المجتمع .-المعرفة تثبُتُ بالأسماء والصّفات ، وسيل الأفعال يسحق الأنا.
I have now devoted nearly three months to doing close readings of nearly every book by Michel Foucault.
John Conner goes to the Central Command center to avoid the Judgment Day, where the machines overthrow the humans.
The machines are ruling themselves, there is no center, and nothing the hero can do will stop the inevitable destruction on Judgment Day. No human actor can stop the inevitable downfall of the human race.
The machines represent the subjectivity of the coming revolution, the people are humanists, and Judgment Day means we are all basically fucked." He's right.
2, and History of Madness are my favorite books by Foucault.
Come prepared.As I understand it—and I am most emphatically not claiming that I do—Foucault is demonstrating that there do exist traceable patterns in the great developments of Western thought in terms of limits, possibilities and approaches to new and old knowledge, but also discontinuities and breaks from old ways of thinking.
Foucault seems to be arguing that man, like everything else, is a historical construct, and its relation to the order of nature pivots according to developments in each area of inquiry, including but not limited to, the human sciences.
As Zizek might say, a subject-hood is self-realized selfhood, that all conditions of knowing pass through the self.While it may be tempting to digress into philosophical contemplation with this idealist twist, Foucault is quick to add that this subjectivity is only made possible because the inherent formalization of various fields have fragmented into their own logic (for him, biology, economics and philology are the ones he looks at, but by no means are these positions foundational).
One of those books that I keep coming back to again and again.
"The Order of Things" (the French title, "Words and Things" is probably more precise) is one of those key books that re-orders the way you think.
It begins with a classic and bravura passage--- an analysis of Velasquez's "Las Meninas" ---that should be required reading for anyone interested in exegesis or hermeneutics.
The book goes on to discuss how we categorise and valorise knowledge--- how we choose to draw the boundaries of the objects in the world, how we prioritise kinds of knowledge.
Not an easy read, but a powerful one.
A key work--- highly recommended.
I did not expect that he would use his words in such an absolute way, not defining what he means by words even when he is using them in a slightly off-centre way (I am not sure whether my criticisms apply more to FOUCAULT MICHEL himself or his translator).I did not appreciate how many of the sentences ran on for over ten lines (ten dense and adequately wide lines) and that one had several colons and semicolons to give the wrong impression of a break ran on for EIGHTEEN LINES of densely written, wordy, hard to grasp academic show-offyness (I accept that a smarter person than me might find the words easier, but the sentence structure I think would put anyone off).What it is, is a history of thinking and classifying thought/concepts.
Some things appear to be true in it, and other things new.
Foucault argues that there was a turning point in understanding and inquiry which occurred during the 18th century, perhaps near the tail end.
Foucault is right that the Age of Enlightenment brought about new ways of thinking about human beings and the world, but the rest I don't claim to understand.Foucault has this complicated idea that language's role in knowledge changed into the 18th century.
Through philological analysis, looking at how the use of certain key terms changed over time.
I can't understand it from Foucault himself.
Foucault is hard to categorize. Some see him as a post-structuralist, others argue that he is a new historicist. I think he sees himself as a descendant of Friedrich Nietzsche.The first part of this book is great simply on the level of entertainment. Foucault's analysis of Velazquez's  Las Meninas  stands out as an essay that can be read on its own. I also enjoyed Foucault's discussion of Don Quixote.The latter part of the book is much more of a historical study. Foucault has an interesting theo
Foucault is hard to categorize.
Some see him as a post-structuralist, others argue that he is a new historicist.
I think he sees himself as a descendant of Friedrich Nietzsche.The first part of this book is great simply on the level of entertainment.
Foucault's analysis of Velazquez's 
Las Meninas
I also enjoyed Foucault's discussion of Don Quixote.The latter part of the book is much more of a historical study.
Foucault has an interesting theory about the changes in the dominant epistemes--the ways we organize knowledge--and he employs an analysis of Enlightenment texts to substantiate his argument.
This book is about how we're all just an empirico-transcendental doublet strapped to the back of a tiger. Now that I've read it the only thing I know is that Foucault is totally gay for Nietzsche—"he was so wise, he knew so much, he wrote such good books." Nietzsche!
The death of man turns out to be one big fat anti-climax. It's just a melodramatic way of saying the social sciences are changing their focus. Don't be fooled by all the Nietzsche-mongering. The shadow of Kant falls heaviest on this book. An investigation into the knowledge of knowledge.
First, by putting together a history of epistemes of labour, life and language, showing the patterns of discontinuity, this one offers Focuault a lot of space to elaborate on the current (or perhaps his current) structure of thought about the human sciences.
Since his later works often go back to some of the ideas developed in this book as much as they often follow patterns of their own, I believe there is a lot to be gained from some of the chapters in here, especially of those on representation and its limits, the role of finitude and nature in contemporary thought.
The subject of the book club was Diego Velasquez' painting Las Meninas, generally considered-the most provocative painting in the history of art.
According to Foucault you create the reality of the painting by the language you use to describe the painting.
The artist's intent doesn't matter to you.
What matters to you is your interpretation of the painting- that's reality.
As with Velasquez, Foucault 's intent doesn't matter.
To reclaim your life, to be free is to create a different reality for yourself.
If you don't fit into someone else's reality, create your own by creating a different perspective.
I made it to page 273, but I have found it a bit too boring and difficult to find the discipline to continue.What Foucault has to say is fairly interesting, but after getting the gist of the idea from the introduction, and (to be honest) a synopsis of the contents I don't think there's much to be gained from actually reading the book.
Nietsche railed against German thinkers for writing such a dull, heavy, ugly prose and envied the French for their light, witty writing tradition.
Unfortunately the French seem to have bought into the idea of Germanic profundity in their writing style these days.
As with most of Foucault's work, this book oscillates between barely discernible prose, discussion of obscure texts, and moments of clear profundity that will blow your mind.
Foucault's overall argument is fairly simple, at least in today's context, where many of Foucault's ideas and methods are often taken as a priori.
The human sciences didn't appear because of new enlightened ideas, but because the discursive organizations changed.
Since Foucault is working with a new paradigm and new method, he really takes the reader literally step by step.
In a way, I think these too books are more useful today as methodologies, rather than philosophical or theoretical treatises.
Me llevó un rato, pero por fin lo acabé. Foucault es oscuro, pero una vez que se le agarra el hilo, termina por ser más bello que oscuro, y eso sí: contundente.Si le interesan los temas epistemológicos, este libro es imperdible. Contiene una muy fina explicación arqueológica de por qué, como posmodernos, hemos entrado en crisis en nuestras búsquedas funcionalistas de conocimiento y sentido.
I'd be lying if I said that I found reading this book pleasant - it's super dense, even compared to Foucault's other work. I'd also be lying if I said that it didn't change the way I view thought in the west.
Michel Foucault nous délivre dans ce livre sa vision du cheminement de la pensée occidentale du Moyen-âge à nos jours, s'attardant sur le passage à l'âge de la représentation à partir du XVI ème siècle, que le tableau:Les Ménines de Velasquez symbolise à ses yeux.
The most pretentious load of drivel I have ever come across.
The Enlightenment had its own assumptions and prejudices and models that are almost as alien to what was to come later as were the assumptions of the models that preceded it for two thousand years.I should probably point out that I delight in finding that the received truth is, if not exactly the opposite of what we think, very different from it, whether it's the current unmasking of the vaporous frauds on which the world financial markets have operated for so many years or the exposure of common medical practices that cost so much and do so little for our health.
تتبع فوكو الأركيولوجي للمعرفة تظهر الانزياحات الدلالية والطفرات والتقلبات التي عرفتها ثلاث أوجه من حقول المعرفة تجاه الإنسان ، الا وهي فقه اللغة ، الاقتصاد السياسي ، وعلم التشريح ، تقدمات هائلة وانقلابات معرفية حصلت داخل هذه الأنظمة المعرفية أدت بالتالي إلى ظهور مايعرف بالإنسان ، ميشيل فوكو يتجشم العناء هنا عبر تتبع مصدر نشوء المعرفة (التي صنعت) مايعرف بالإنسان .
لا عجب إذن ان نرى ذلك التشابك بين المطرقة النيتشوية التي أراد لها فوكو أن تحطم صنمية هذا الفكر والمعرفة ، التفكيك الذي سيتيح للكينونة أن تنعتق من هذا الأسر لتعانق مفهوم كينونة اللغة كما نحتها هيدغر .
For some reason I came up with a thought that does not bear directly on Foucault's work but may have some relation to it.The thought was: Literature is that which otherwise would not be said.I turned this thought over in my mind and was not sure that I knew how I could contradict it and might possibly believe it.
Now, as we know, literature originally was closely aligned with religion, as were all the arts, but Foucault pinpoints a 16th-18th century period in which the divinity of literature was cast aside, and the post-Renaissance rumble that came to be "life today" began expressing itself.He is not preoccupied with literature or its fate--I am-- but he pursues an analytic method that sidelines it in a curious and interesting way.
quando o pensador é didático ❤
Re-red. Doktorat in progress.
Some of his ideas get lost in his love for making extra-long sentences where he can congratulate himself with how smart he is and get the reader lost because it may necessary to stop once or twice to follow what he was saying two pages ago where he started a course of thought that maybe is not as clear as it should be, but, hey, this is an awesome book that plays beautifully with language and all these things we humans use when trying to understand each other and the world we live in.
My examination of The Order of Things: An Archaeology of the Human Sciences produced personal findings of significance.
I like order.
My house is in order.
In the signatory, a sign of resemblances such as a mathematical symbol (p: mathematical constant) provides a binary representation of significance, e.g., a calculation based on pi.
There must be, in the representation, the perpetual possibility of imaginative recall" (69).
I got the possibility of Other is not conscious contemporaneously, is becoming the same as himself and is no longer obscure space (328).
The unthought no longer eludes the man that had been striving to recover it.
Rather than a direct, localised understanding of human history, Foucault's text serves to abstract and dissolve certain concrete concepts which are established within social convention and structure.
Though Foucault's book is academic in tone, it's focus and aim are clearly social and in the interests of releasing certain folds of thought which are currently hidden by the apparent limitations of knowledge.
This book is of incredible value for people interested in understanding the underpinnings of knowledge and the way in which it is structured, and a good complement would perhaps be the work of Jorge Luis Borges, or even Gilles Deleuze who was a friend with similar objectives to Michel Foucault.
The Order of Things is one of the less frequently read books of Foucault's.
However, this one is still rewarding.A lot of reviewers on here seem to think that the point of this book is that Foucault "doesn't like" the conventional periodization of history.
Rather, the Episteme is the larger framework, the structuring pattern of thought with undergirds the discursive formations that constitute the fields of knowledge.
And in the book he gives an account of the episteme of the Renaissance, the Classical Period, and the Modern Period.
This passage quotes a 'certain Chinese encyclopedia' in which it is written that 'animals are divided into: (a) belonging to the Emperor, (b) embalmed, (c) tame, (d) sucking pigs, (e) sirens, (f) fabulous, (g) stray dogs, (h) included in the present classification, (i) frenzied, (j) innumerable, (k) drawn with a very fine camelhair brush, (l) et cetera, (m) having just broken the water pitcher, (n) that from a long way off look like flies.' In the wonderment of this taxonomy, the thing we apprehend in one great leap, the thing that, by means of the fable, is demonstrated as the exotic charm of another system of thought, is the limitation of our own, the stark impossibility of thinking that.As the above passage demonstrates, Foucault is never short on examples, something many philosophers avoid as if a concrete example might sully their thoughts and force them into teaching at a community college.
My most common experience reading this was seeing a long series of negative statements ("The science of economics is not this, or this, or this...") that would take pages to resolve into an affirmative of what the thing is.
But at the end of one of these titanic discursive flows I'd be left with very little, just a philosophical laugh of "Lol wut?"Some ideas demand density in argumentation, and a lot of intelligent commentators have read very smart things into The Order of Things.
