https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11178225-out-of-the-easy
4.5If you'd asked me about historical fiction two years ago, I would have told you it wasn't my thing. It had long been a genre that just didn't appeal to me. But, after discovering goodreads and getting awesome recommendations as well as hearing about books I would otherwise never have known about, I've ran into a series of books that have proved I was wrong about this genre. From the bright lights and dazzling atmosphere of Libba Bray's 1920s supernatural murder mystery - The Diviners - to th
From the bright lights and dazzling atmosphere of Libba Bray's 1920s supernatural murder mystery - The Diviners - to the character-driven story of a Wales occupied by England - The Wicked and the Just - to a creepy ghost story set at the time of the First World War - In the Shadow of Blackbirds - and now this.I confess that I was one of the few people who struggled to fully appreciate Between Shades of Gray (I know, I suck) but I had no such problem with Ruta Sepetys' second novel and I think I finally understand what it was about the first that failed for me and why this one delivered: the characters.
This started out really strong, but around the halfway point it really started losing steam. Still enjoyable overall, but I got very bored near the end. I was having a hard time articulating exactly why I didn't love this book, and I came across the review that described my feelings perfectly: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Josie is a good girl who wants a good education and a good life, out of the city of New Orleans which, so far, only filled her heart with disappointments.
Though we’re clearly aware of the fact that this is a historical novel from the way the people were thinking and living in 1950s New Orleans, the point of this book is not to tell you how things were back in the day, although that’s part of it, but rather make you experience, through the lovely Josie, the life of a teenage girl with big dreams in a city that plans to suck the life out of her.More showing than telling.

The author was able to bring to life with the descriptions and vivid details of the New Orleans during a rough time.
She was able to "escape" through books as she works in a book store, and the kindness of others that sheltered her as best they could from what she could have easily succumbed to.Josie (love the name) is smart and well read, independent, gutsy, even knows how to shoot a gun, witty.
There's also a whole slew of other characters that you just love Cokie, Willie's driver, Patrick, Josie's best friend and co-worker at the bookstore.
I loved this book.
There is a love triangle (sort of) and Josie's reactions to both boys seem off and abrupt -- because again we are not given enough of her relationship with either boy to understand how or why she reacts the way she does.
I'm not giving up, though because I have this feeling that if Sepetys is inspired enough, and really, truly driven to tell a story of relevance as I think was the case with Between Shades of Gray (not so much with Out of the Easy), I think it will be marvelous.
Primer libro que leo que trata la prostitución como debe. Ole Ruta. Ole.
www.melissa413readsalot.blogspot.comI wasn't sure I was going to like this book, but I was pleasantly surprised that I did :) I fell in love with so many characters in the book.
The brothel her mom was living in was owned by a woman named Willie and I really loved her.
There is another character I love in the book, it's Cokie, he is Willie's driver.
He loves driving around in Willie's Caddy :) He is a really sweet character.
She is able to make her authorial voice completely invisible, thus allowing her characters to fully form and take center stage.Out of the Easy rose from its pages to create a story that unfolded right in front of my eyes, more like a play than anything else.
All she ever wanted was to be normal, to be able to live and learn like everyone else, without her mother’s constant malicious meddling.
But Josie was not alone – each of the characters was so unique, so alive and vibrant – that they completely took over the story and left their author far behind.
How many college girls cleaned cathouses?  I was watching a show on t.v. today and heard the over-used phrase You can't have your cake and eat it too, to which I replied, "Why not?" When in the history of ever has someone had the dilemma of being given a piece of cake which they weren't allowed to eat (dietetic reasons don't count)? Why would you ever want to have a piece of cake if you couldn't eat it? I have to go with Marie Antoinette and her stance of letting people eat cake...or not, as i
There was the the tale of a woman coming-of-age, and how she had to learn to make her own way in the world, outside of her mother's stigma as a prostitute.I first fell in love with Ruta Sepetys' writing with her now well-known book Between Shades of Gray, which was absolutely brilliant and showcased the passion that one writer could have in wanting to bring a hidden story to life (she went on her own pilgrimage to find out the history of her people in order to write the book).
While I found Out of the Easy an engaging read, I don't know if I ever fully attached to the story in the way I would have liked to.Even so, I still have so much love for her style of writing.
With Out of the Easy, however, I truly couldn't turn the pages fast enough.I loved the characterization of different people in New Orleans in 1950, how Sepetys captured their lives, the good and ugly parts.
Josie knows no decent college would accept a "salted peanuts" girl from the French Quarter with a stained lineage like hers.
“They got everything that money can buy, their bank accounts are fat, but they ain’t happy.
“What do you do with all this bank, Josie?
Josie, the daughter of a heartless and uncaring brothel prostitute dreams of escaping the Big Easy, and going to college.
But, despite all of this, Josie is not one to dwell on her misfortunes, instead she soldiers on, determined to one day achieve her dreams.Out of The Easy features a colourful cast of characters.
Strong, funny, and caring these women oddly found a place in my heart.I never would have picked this up before I became a book blogger.
Out of The Easy is a beautiful, heart-wrenching story that has quickly made it to my favourites shelf.
My third book by this author and it was just as much a pleasure to read as the previous two.
Sepetys has a delightful way with words and her characters and their settings are always so well written.In this case the setting is New Orleans, the 'wrong' part of it, and our main character, Josie, is struggling to make something better of herself.
She is guided and assisted by a number of friends and I loved the way her relationships were depicted.
I sincerely hope Ruta Sepetys is busy right now creating her next beautiful novel!
Good. Yes. Good.
4.5 starsAnother great story crafted by Ruta. I really enjoyed this!
Josie (Jo) is a very well written character.
He is the driver for Willie and acts like a uncle and friends to Jo. I think I could have a great time hanging out with him, sweet and fun as he is!There is a bit a love triangle between her, Patrick and Jesse.
It is not drawn out like so many other books these days.
You really feel like you are right there with Josie at all times.
It has a slightly artistic edge and it very evident that Ruta took her time to research New Orleans and the time period.
Instead, the mother had to be the most cold-hearted parent that every existed – or that’s how she’s portrayed.
Well, she’s not far from being the worst, however, the constant mention of all the bad things the heroine’s mother had done got extremely tiring.
I’m not particularly sure how many times the secondary characters had to mention that Josie is intelligent, but they did it enough times that I finally remembered.
Character development was decent, and the book was fast-paced which I loved, but the ending was rushed and I felt things happened to quickly and came together far too perfectly at the end.This feels more like a negative review when I go over it, but it's an okay novel.
Everybody thinks she is too good to be a prostitute and there is a great moment of tension in the novel where the main character is driven to almost become one because she needs money urgently but eventually she doesn’t do it and as such is shown as being morally superior.So there is this clash between what the novel tells me (prostitution = not a good life; better not live it) and what it shows me (actual prostitutes in the novel = well-adjusted, moderately happy) and this clash could have been interesting as a complex portrayal of prostitution had it not been for the fact that this is only explored in a divided way – this is not a good life for JOSIE but hey, it is a good life for everybody else because what?
I admired her tenacity and determination to never give up and I have to say that I have grown to love her character as if she was my own friend.Jesse, the mysterious and rugged boy she grew up with is wanted by all the ladies but only has eyes for Josie.
The cage symbolizes her goal perfectly.PlotSO much drama and problems, but Josie was just a great main character to cheer for.Overall, a must-read for any book lover!
Prekrasna, topla priča o Josie koja, uz majku prostitutku i niz osebujnih likova, odrasta u ozloglašenoj, Francuskoj četvrti New Orleansa.
Ona radi u knjižari, čisti bordel, biva uvučena u istragu ubojstva, ali vođena svojim jakim karakterom i ambicijom, hrabro kroči ka svom cilju- upisu na prestižni koledž Smith.
U njezinoj borbi pomažu joj ljudi koji je okružuju, a uz koje je ne vežu rodbinske nego sudbinske veze koje su, ponekad, one najjače.Nije ovo ni prva ni zadnja priča o ljudima koji su lišeni roditeljskog doma i ljubavi onda kada im je to najpotrebnije, ali Soba puna snova je zasigurno jedna od najljepših koje sam čitala.
☆1.25/5☆DNF @ pg 45It's not like the other R. S. books. And I didn't find interest in this one. Plot and writing style felt very fake, unnatural, like the author was trying to imitate that she can write a book.
The important thing is to start.”  This book was surprisingly good.
Let me tell you something: Josie's narration is very very addictive.
Sometimes, I even hummed the song as I read Josie's wonderful addicting narration.
If you're wondering what I was wondering, hesitant to start this book because it's about whores and brothels, just step out of that fear.
3 starsTo be fair I did DNF a few books before this so that's something. The characters were interesting enough for me to find out how it will all end. This one felt a bit slower than her other book. Also it was somewhat of a love triangle but it was obvious which way the book will end.
The real Josie despite having an uphill struggle in life with a mother who never gives a damn and not knowing her father tries to make the best out of every situation.
She knows it’s a big step, she does have the money, but most of all courage to make it?I adored Josie Moraine, with a sharp head on her shoulders unlike her mother, I wanted more for her.
Willie was one heck of a scary woman, but she was such a great judge of character, she knew how worthless Josie’s mother was and so in so many unspoken ways become a sort of surrogate mother to Josie.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestReading this book seemed to take forever, and it took me a while to figure out why I kept setting it aside. On the surface, OUT OF THE EASY is everything I like in young adult fiction: interesting and diverse cast of supporting characters, a flawed and often selfish heroine, real world issues dealt with in a real and darkly edgy way, and a bit of romance that doesn't overshadow the story. All of these things are wonderful, and the story is
On the surface, OUT OF THE EASY is everything I like in young adult fiction: interesting and diverse cast of supporting characters, a flawed and often selfish heroine, real world issues dealt with in a real and darkly edgy way, and a bit of romance that doesn't overshadow the story.
The heroine in OUT OF THE EASY, Josie, is the daughter of a whore and desperately wants to leave New Orleans, to be free of her neglectful and self-centered mother to start her own life.
Although Sepetys has received much world-wide acclaim for her first novel, Between Shades of Gray, I found that her debut was less fiction and more history, leaving an impact on the reader merely because of the facts it was based upon.
Unlike her mother, Josie is an educated young woman, aspiring to leave the prejudices of her station and pursue a better life.
Josie may be smarter than those around her, but she is just as flawed.I will admit, though, that Out of the Easy lacked that much-needed impact to propel it into a 5-Star read.
As primeira cem páginas são um pouco difíceis de ultrapassar, mas depois que isso aconteceu, não me arrependi nenhum um pouco de ter insistido.
Sempre tive vontade de conhecer, mas depois de ler este livro quero ainda mais.Foi emocionante e angustiante acompanhar a jornada da Josie.
Parecia que ela nadava e nadava, mas a correnteza que era a sua vida não a deixava sair do lugar.
Tudo o que ela queria era sair do lugar.
Sair daquele bairro que não oferecia nenhum futuro a ela.
Não se enganem que esse livro é cheio de ação.

After finishing “Salt to th Sea”, I knew I had to add the rest of Ruta Sepetys’ books to my list.“Out of the Easy” absolutely did not disappoint. Lovable characters (I instantly adored Cokie), and such a fantastic story. Thank you, Ruta!
-I had kind of a hard time connecting to the heroine, Josie, she was a little too perfect compared to all the other female characters in the book.
There was an underlying tone of Josie being good and innocent whilst all the sex workers were ultimately bad and awful.
I hate when authors write mostly crap female characters just so the heroine seems special and awesome in comparison, it's such lazy and insulting writing.-Josie's mum was a total cow, she treated her daughter appallingly.
