https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/748226.Introduction_to_the_Study_of_the_Hindu_Doctrines
On the contrary, the faculty most truly characteristic of the Greeks, but which is little to their advantage, is a certain dialectical subtlety, of which the dialogues of Plato provide numerous examples ; there is an apparent desire to examine each question interminably, under all its aspects and in minutest detail, m order to arrive finally at a rather insignificant conclusion; it would appear that in the West the moderns are not the first people to have been afflicted with “ intellectual myopia.” Perhaps, after all, the Greeks should not be blamed too severely for restricting the field of human thought as they have done ; on the one hand this was an inevitable result of their mental constitution, for which they cannot be held responsible, and on the other hand they did at least in this way bring within reach of a large part of humanity certain kinds of knowledge which were otherwise in danger of remaining completely foreign to it.
More like an introduction to the precepts of Traditionalism and the perennial philosophy. Essential reading if you wish to understand this position.
يقول المراجع في تقديم الكتاب : أقول للقاريء سعيد الحظ الذي جاء للدنيا غريبا وعاش فيها ضيفا ، نحن أصدقائك مرحبا بك ...
(...) a eu une influence marquante sur des auteurs aussi divers que Mircea Eliade, Raymond Queneau ou encore André Breton." ou encore le peintre Paul Ackerman."René Guénon, distingue avec insistance dans ses livres la notion de « guru extérieur », humain et corporel, de celle de « véritable guru » qui se trouve dans le disciple lui-même.
(...) En fait le guru, dans son rôle de maître, ne doit pas être appréhendé comme un individu, mais comme symbolisant la Tradition elle-même « ...
ce qui constitue bien exactement ce rôle de « transmetteur ».
This is NOT an introduction to hindu doctrines: it's an introduction to their study.The goal of this works is to dispel many of the mistakes of western scholars of eastern traditions while explaining the correct point of view to approach their study. Do not expect to find an in depth introduction to hinduism here.
I'm not sure this is a great introduction for the doctrines, but its an interesting read regardless.
