https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/306940.Impro
A book that changed my life. The idea of saying yes and being present, of not blocking and not needing to be the cleverest person on the room have made me more open to adventure and, I'm pretty sure, happier overall.
"Switch off the no-saying intellect and welcome the unconscious as a friend: it will lead you places you never dreamed of, and produce results more 'original' than anything you could achieve by aiming at originality."
A strange book with a lot of interesting observations, even for those uninterested in improvisational theater.
Sometimes he fixates on a concept (like masks) which incrementally raises his new-age mumbo jumbo tally for me--but generally he tells an interesting story about his experiments, outcomes and thoughts about understanding characters and their motives.
For example, he talks about how he was finally able to get his actors to improvise realistic dialog when he had them imagine that, with every line, they were to try and change their social status in the group by the smallest amount possible.
It is extremely illuminating and unsettling to pay attention to these status exchanges in your daily communications.I highly recommend it!
This makes it difficult to understand that education can be a destructive process, and that bad teachers are wrecking talent, and that good and bad teachers are engaged in opposite activities.""I play low status physically but my actual status is going up, since only a very confident and experienced person would put the blame for failure on himself.""For example, many students will begin an improvisation, or a scene, in a rather feeble way.
Definitely a book to reread every few years.
I believe I now have a new perspective on self-expression as not really being about the individual, especially in theatre.
I had a lover once who said making art and becoming an artist were peculiar to the West.
Johnstone expanded on this idea in a way that made me a bit uncomfortable at times, making broad claims from what seemed to me an imperialist perspective.
But at least he was trying not to apply European standards of art to the rest of the world.
This is going to sound corny: this isn't just a book about improvisation, IT'S A BOOK ABOUT LIFE!! Okay, terrible, but true. Johnstone writes about human psychology and the way we interact socially as a way into comedy and improvisation. That bestseller "Blink" shamelessly quotes from it, yet the surprising insights this book reveals make that book rather dull in comparison.
The merit for this book's four star came entirely from the chapter "Status".
This chapter made me conscious about how I carry myself and what I do with the space around me.
Space has everything to do with status.
The more space you take up, the higher you put your status.
What Johnstone wrote about status suddenly made me understand why we are so awkward around people we have a crush on.
I also don't quite agree with Johnstone's belief that education was the sole culprit for our loss of spontaneity.
Narrative techniques Johnstone talked about are very helpful when we encounter writer’s blocks.
Není to kniha, ale životní filozofie. A divadla se taky týká vlastně jen napůl. Nejvíc ze všeho je to boj proti extrémní racionalitě západní civilizace, která se projevuje selháváním i v bytostně lidských situacích, jako je dostat se do tranzu (přeneseně i nepřeneseně) nebo vyprávět příběh. Svým způsobem je to návod, jak se poprat s prokrastinací, který byl napsán, ještě než se slovo prokrastinace vůbec objevilo. A možná úplně ze všeho je to příručka pro západního člověka, jak žít zase o trochu přirozeněji a občas ten všudypřítomný rozum vypnout.Rozhodně se vyplatí přečíst, i když se nechystáte na divadelní prkna.
In improvisation and acting...
Thanks to my friend José for giving me this book, it has expanded my mind and perception in many ways.
Hopefully, it will make me a better improviser and overall better human.
This is also a great book if you want to be better at public speaking.
Yet, it is most valuable if you want to be great at listening.
This ability to perceive the underlying motives of casual behavior can also be taught.""I began to think of children not as immature adults, but of adults as atrophied children."
This book was recommended to me by a friend who was acutely aware of my interest in the occult and my active practice of magic. I was surprised to find that many of the techniques used and goals sought after are the same. I started with little interest in theater but this book was incredibly hard to put down, and actually may inspire me to pursue improv in the future.
Overall, I would rate this book a three, but I gave it a four for some excellent insights it has on interpersonal relationships and drama that I think work just as well in business and life.An eclectic mix of autobiography and techniques, Johnson enlivens this encyclopaedia of improv techniques with stories of how he learnt and applied the techniques in his own work.
The book lacks some basic overall structure; particularly at the start and the end (no distinct conclusion), but also in-between the major sections to guide, sum up and coach readers in applying what they've learnt (eg.
Those ideas alone make the book worth reading - eye contact, trading in status, what your status is to others and how that affects your interactions.There are also some great insights about education in the book.My favorite quote I shared right away on social media: "When I hear that children have an attention span of ten minutes, or whatever, I'm amazed.
Ten minutes is the attention span of bored children."Isn't that true for all of us?
When we're bored, our attention span shrinks.Don't bore people is great advice.
This is a mind-opening, mind-bending, mind-caressing, and mind-shaping book. It helped me understand some basic mechanisms in all human relationships, thereby making me a more astute and compassionate interlocutor. It invited me to embrace improvisation as a lifestyle and state of mind . . . very constructive! And it gave me a glimpse of a whole other world which you enter when you wear the Mask.All in all, my favorite book. I never tire of re-reading it.
One of my favorite books about improv though I still struggle to apply the lessons I learn from this book. Each time I pick it up I gain something different. This time I stopped without reading most of the "Masks" section as I don't plan on using masks in the near future, but the rest was great. I look forward to picking it up again in a couple of years and seeing what I learn next time.
This was a fun read. I will probably do some of these improv exercises with my partner. The last section, on "Masks and Trance", contains some good anecdotes about trance states, hypnosis, and general suggestibility, which I found particularly interesting.
I will try to contain this review to the most salient points, but it shaped me much more than I can convey… And with that, here are my thoughts:The book is split into four parts; status, spontaneity, narrative skills, and masks and trace.
They are no longer acting the role, they simply are the role.In this vein, I claim that this book is largely an exploration of what techniques are effective in lowering filters enough to carefully nudge people into something which has many names; ‘flow state’, ‘meditative focus’, ‘primary state’, ‘trance’, ‘hypnosis’, etc.
He thinks it’s one of the primary ways people are reprimanded out of having original thought, and that when most actors first come to him they are hugely repressed.
Full of great intuitions about how humans relate. I particularly enjoyed the discussions of: status-raising and status-lowering games (and how you can be high status but play low, and vice versa); the challenges of extracting spontaneity from adults; the fact that people want to see improvisers struggle, rather than fluidly succeed; aiming for originality is foolish- instead aim for spontaneity; accepting and blocking (and why scenes should include both); that most stories about the interruption of routine. It's a slim book but full of ideas.
An excellent book. I plan to reread it.
My husband gave me this book because of the gems it may contain about how people interact with each other and how that might reflect on business 'performance'.
I found it incredibly interesting and valuable as a means to provide insight into our regular daily behaviour.
I think about the techniques when observing people in their daily lives and can really find insightful truths in observations of human behaviour.
It's not necessary to be in the theatre to enjoy and learn from this book, but I do look forward to evalutating the use of these techniques next time I go to the theatre.
As for its applicability to business, the creative stimulation is relevant everywhere.
I'm loving it so far. It's a little harder to trudge through than Improvise by Mick Napier because the writing style is different, but it has a lot more specific ideas to offer to the world of improvisation and the theatre. There are some same ideas that are worded differently that sheds new light on improv scenes specifically for directors of troupes or classes which I kind of like. There are also some good teaching techniques and excercizes(I always misspell this word...did I do it right?) in this book.
Recommended by a friend. Very very insightful book on the nuances of human interactions and reading people. Loved the first three sections (status, spontaneity, and narrative skills). I believe skills developed in improvisation and theatre have a lot of cross-functional impact in the business and social sphere.
Forty years after it was written, this book still gleams, even for people who like me have nothing to do with the theater. Just reading the book makes you feel more alive. Keith's insights are kind, strange, and marvellously human. If more people taught like he does, we'd live in much freer, saner societies.
I'm not an actor, but I found the author's discussions of human social behavior and creativity to be eye-opening. If you're interested in spontaneity, brain-storming, co-operative verbal games, rapid narrative construction, personalities, body language, or performance, you might enjoy reading this.
Not just about improv acting but can be applied to every day life. Wonderful for self-analysis and communication skills.I recommend this book to anyone interested in unlocking their creative powers.
Yowza, this book reads very much like a textbook.
It took me quite awhile to finish reading, which probably stems from my lifetime aversion to school and classes of any kind.
Reading about the different improvisational games and techniques Johnstone used with his classes helped me to understand WHY we're doing these activities, and what improvements they can bring to our performances.
The fourth section, Masks and Trance, was kind of a mystery to me.
Maybe I'd feel differently if I'd experienced work this area, but we'll probably never know.
The book is written for instructors of theater classes, but the insights into human intuition and body language can be helpful for anyone inside or outside of the acting community.The first two chapters, "Status" and "Spontaneity", are by far the most interesting and applicable.
Rather than telling the reader how to elevate his/her status or become more spontaneous, the author describes where theater students go wrong in trying to act out these qualities.
While not intended as direct advice, the author's comments illustrate important and applicable principles that any reader can use to adjust their own behaviors.The last two chapters, "Narrative Skills" and "Masks and Trance", lean more towards theater-specific than the first two.
Hm, I feel like I really liked the first 3 sections, and then I got lost in the 4th (Masks and Trance).
Improv is a pretty interesting subject to me right now.
I like some of its principles (saying yes, not blocking, staying in the moment) and I thought some of the advice about spontaneity (and acceptance of whatever comes) and how status exchanges make a scene more believable were quite interesting.But I think towards the end the book got a little long and I found myself skimming more than reading.*also note that my reviews for nonfiction are still not well-calibrated at all!
I have no idea what to expect yet...
A treasure of invaluable insight and practical advice for overcoming creative blocks.
The strategies read fluently on the page, as though they are being taught during an improv class.
The content is not simply for theatre, but for all forms of creativity.
Johnstone’s insight into what causes creative blocks is enlightening and always feels as though he really just wants to help people experience their true creative potential - to tap into the muse.
The bit about masks was very interesting, but into some things that are difficult for me to see myself being able to experiment with.
This is one of those books that seed you with ideas that don't immediately make sense, but gradually sprout to create profound insights into human behaviour. The insights are subtle. The author is always talking about how to make Improvisation work, but in the process, he has laid down few principal ideas that makes us humans do what we do. Reading this, I am walking away with a very different perspective on acting. My only gripe is the last section on Trance and Masks which seemed overly-elaborate and not very applicable to practical realities of life.
A tough book to rate as there were flashes of insight that definitely make the book worth reading but at times it meanders off into obscure topics especially someone with little experience of improvisation. Perhaps this highlights my lack of understanding and I am sure I will revisit this book again in the future. As others have mentioned the sections on status transactions make this worth a read but at the moment it is possible I lack the comprehension skills to realise how valuable a resource this truly is.
