https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22058231-a-man-s-head
Of all the Inspector Maigret novels I have read thus far (10), "A Man's Head" on the face of it was one of the most baffling to me.
The story begins with Maigret visiting La Santé Prison, where a man (Joseph Heurtin) he had apprehended and had apparently proven his guilt in the murders of a rich, elderly American widow and her maid, awaited his execution.
Heurtin had been caught in the summer and at the time of the novel's opening, it is autumn in Paris.
I was left with the feeling of being in a city usually brimming with joie de vivre, but, due to the changes of seasons, was now subdued, dour.
How an author as prolific as Simenon could maintain such high standards is beyond me, this early entry in the Maigret series was book 5 of 11(!) published in the series in 1931 and they range from good to very good. "I was born in the dark and in the rain but I got away. The crimes I write about are the crimes I would have committed if I had not got away." - Georges Simenon This particular entry is notable for featuring a psychological showdown between the hero cop and the killer who is baiting
This particular entry is notable for featuring a psychological showdown between the hero cop and the killer who is baiting him, a leap of faith based on Maigret's intuition as a condemned man is elaborately helped to escape in the opening chapter and the angry world view of a poor but intelligent man causing pain and misery to those around him.As always there is a fair amount of detecting done whilst refilling a pipe and enjoying a local cafe but this is no cosy mystery, it's a dark tale of life and death, of blackmail and murder, of a game of cat and mouse between detective and genius.
اگر شخصیت رادک رو کنار بذاریم، کتابی بود کشنده و جذاب که کنار گذاشتنش واقعا سخت بوداز وقتی رادک وارد داستان شد شخصیت زیادی زرنگ او و حرف هایش داستان رو تاحدی غیرطبیعی کرد. به نظرم اگر او یه کم طبیعی تر و معمولی تر ترسیم می شد؛ اون نفسی گیری تا آخر ادامه پیدا می کرداما علی رغم این نکته ی به نظر من منفی، داستانی بود خواندنی. نوشتار کوتاهی که در پایان کتاب در مورد آثار سیمنون نوشته شده بود هم گرچه مختصر بود اما اشارات جالبی داشت
Un Maigret va sempre bene.Possibili applicazioni pratiche:1) in stazioneil treno è in ritardo, l'uom
Ironically, a trip to South Florida where I met many people from Quebec motivated me to relearn the language.La tete d'un homme is one in a series of many mysteries written in France in the 1950's.
In this mystery, the story begins as Maigret, police inspector and main character, is visiting Heurtin in prison for the last time.
Some of them were seen as movies in France in the 1950's.This book was an enjoyable one to read with the Parisian 1950's setting.
If you enjoyed them, you would enjoy the mysteries of Maigret.
I have recently become addicted to Simenon's 'Maigret' novels. This is the fourth I have read so far and it's brilliant. The atmosphere, the pacing, the plotting: everything is tremendous! I have already acquired two more 'Maigret' novels and have started reading one of them...
Usually large and in charge, Chief Inspector Jules Maigret rarely breaks a sweat in most of Georges Simenon’s novels, but in A Man’s Head, Maigret’s job is on the line.Joseph Heurtin, a deliveryman, was condemned to hang for the brutal stabbing murder of a rich American woman, Mrs. Henderson, and her maid.
Coméliau, the examining magistrate and Maigret’s nemesis, makes it clear that, should things go wrong, it will be on Maigret’s head.
You’ll find yourself anxiously reading A Man’s Head in one go in order to see Maigret crack this tough case.
A short take:The first half of this book was great: Maigret puts his career on the line by gambling on a man's possible innocence, and it is clear that some of the big wigs in law enforcement are just waiting for the big man to mess up.
The second half of the story, in which Maigret seizes upon his true suspect, did not fascinate nearly as much, as the perp did not present an interesting character or motivation.
One passage in this book that wowed me with its elegance:Paris was wearing the cheerless face it always has in the unlovely days of October.
this is the first novel i've read by georges simenon period, and the first i've read in his detective series featuring inspector maigret.
having just read my first martin beck novel, i was much struck by the similarities between the two heroes: both have a determined, patient, and inexorable approach to the crimes in question though maigret, being french, seems to give a bit more of his inner turmoil away, and in general seems more loved and respected by his peers.
the story is of a man who has been convicted of a double homicide: he is set free in the hope that maigret can find out definitively whether he committed the crime, despite the facts of the case.
We are dealing with genre fiction that has more than a little universal about it in its study of the criminal mind.In Maigret's War of Nerves a rich widow and her maid are brutally stabbed to death in a St-Cloud mansion, and a hapless young man named Heurtin is arrested, convicted, and sentenced to the guillotine.
He would have been executed, too, except that Maigret saw him as too hapless for that sort of thing; so he convinces his superiors to let Heurtin "escape" -- with Maigret's promise that he would produce the real killer in ten days.Those ten days are a real nail-biter, until we run into a hyper-intellectual med student named Radek who seems to know too much and who tries too hard to twit Maigret and his associates.
An odd case that opens with Maigret and a prison warden letting a convicted murderer escape. All the ironclad evidence point to the convicted man, but Maigret doesn't believe it. So he takes a lot of crap from his superiors for a week to prove he was fooled by false evidence. Entertaining.
Maigret consigue que el culpable confiese para librarse de su obstinada presencia.Creo que no le pillo el punto a Simenon.:-)
The Maigret Mysteries of Simenon are not so widely read anymore, which is a shame, because this is a good little book to delve into when you have the time.
Although it is not as complex as Poe's tales of 'ratiocination' or as refined as Christie's Poirot; Simenon's story stands up as a good example of how to do a character study of a villain.
On one hand there is Maigret; a gifted, seasoned detective who has proved himself beyond doubt in his professional field.
Di recente, leggo un Maigret: non impegna troppo e rilassa.Questa puntata della saga non mi era sembrata granchè, a parte la trovata (credo piuttosto originale, per l'epoca) che innesca il racconto.
Di lì in poi, la storia si svolge in modo del tutto trascurabile, almeno fino alla conclusione.
Non voglio rovinare la sorpresa, quindi mi limito a dire che Simenon, invece di piazzare il consueto "spiegone", ricostruisce a ritroso i motivi della vicenda con grande abilità, utilizzando la sua finezza di analisi psicologica in modo sorprendente per i tempi.
شاید بتوان گفت فقط فصل اول و فقط برای چند دقیقه هیجان انگیز بود.
توقع من از جذابیت کاراکتر مگره خیلی بیشتر بود که انتظارم برآورده نشد اما رادک، جدای از اینکه برای جذابیت داستان نیاز به نبوغ او وجود داشت و جدای از این بحث که نگاه روانشناسانه جالبی نسبت به خودش و همچنین از دید او نسبت به بقیه ارائه شده بود، اما کلیشه ی نیاز به خودنمایی و لو رفتن و دستگیر شدنش توسط یک مامور قانون بسیار زننده بود.
رویهمرفته لذتی از این داستان نصیب من نشد و چالش فکری خاصی برای خواننده وجود نداشت.
This is the 5th (of 75) book in the Inspector Maigret series I've read.
I decided to read the entire Penguin translated series in order as they were written.
Maigret's War of Nerves is the version I read, which is another version that was translated previously.
I started reading both but enjoyed War of Nerves a lot more.I haven't given any of the books more than three stars but I'm enjoying them immensely.
Georges Simenon is a wonderful Belgium suspense novelist and these are great mystery/thriller novels with the parisian inspector Jules Maigret.
Maigret puts his career on the line when he arranges the escape from prison of a convicted murderer on the night before his execution. The prisoner has been not able to tell the authorities anything other than protest his innocence. Maigret is hoping he will lead them to the real murderer.But it is one thing finding the possible murderer and quite another to get him to confess, or to discover why the murder was committed.This is an audio version
Each book in this seriesjust keeps getting better. Original beginning,winding plot anda smart wrap up. Meigret with the aid of his pipe, solve the crime.Narrator Gareth Armstrongdoes a nice job. His voice isvery comforting to listen to. Clean Story.
Un Simenon in ottima forma.
I read three Maigret novels while I was in France at the beginning of the month, each of which provided me with lots of the mood and atmosphere I was after.
None of them disappointed, but they did vary between good and great.I’ll start at the good end of things with A Man’s Head.In this one, Maigret stakes his career on his instincts and arranges the escape of a prisoner from death row.
Things don’t go entirely to plan when the prisoner ends up falling asleep for most of his first day of freedom.Maigret hangs around in a bar full of well-to-do travellers from around the world to get his head round the murder.
After a few weeks where the World Cup interrupted my reading time, a restless night has enabled me to read this book in pretty quick time.This is an early Maigret novel; wonderfully capturing the inspector's brooding presence and demonstrating his bloodhound qualities of seeking out his man and establishing justice.Detective Chief Inspector Maigret is unhappy about a recent double murder which he didn't oversee after making an arrest.
The plan is to allow the prisoner to think his 'accomplice' has arranged for his jail break and to follow him to see where he goes once he is free to wander around Paris.Nothing goes to plan and never has Maigret had more to lose as he has given himself just ten days to save his name and job.
Así como en la filosofía y en la literatura en general, también en aquella de género los franceses marcan clarísimas diferencias con el resto de Europa y de América.
Ya sobre Simenon está dicho todo, y también sobre Maigret así que solo he de añadir que, le cojas el libro que le cojas, este no tiene pierde.
Aquí hay garantía de que uno se va a refrescar de todos los otros policiales: es efectivo como un capítulo de serie televisiva, no tiene pretensiones literarias muy profundas y tampoco te rompe el coco.
Y tiene el plus de ser literatura de la buena.
Der fünfte Band der 75teiligen Reihe über den Pariser Kriminalkommissar Jules Maigret erzählt eine spannende Geschichte, die vom Verlag als einer der merkwürdigsten Fälle beschrieben wird.Sobald man die ganze Geschichte erfährt und alle Fakten kennt, weiß man, dass es nicht der merkwürdigste, aber wohl einer der schauerlichsten Fälle ist.
So viel Abgebrühtheit und Hass - hui.Zuvor sorgt das Geschehen aber für reichlich Spannung, da man mit Maigret bzw.
Dennoch wirbeln die Ereignisse so viel auf, dass die Spannung nicht nachlässt.Ich habe das Buch in einem Rutsch gelesen und bin immer wieder fasziniert von Simenons Charakterstudien.
A comparatively disappointing outing for Maigret after the high quality of the last two books.
Simenon continues his exploration of Paris life but in a manner less convincing, or compelling than his recently published books.
The conceit behind the opening two chapters of the book is surprising and the reader looks forward to a fresh insight in the ways in which Maigret himself, as opposed to the system in which he works, comes to conclusions as to guilt and innocence.
A short Maigret in the classic Simenon tradition wherein Maigret solves a baffling mystery. An old woman and her maid is killed by a man to whom all the evidence points, yet even though he was the arresting officer, Maigret cannot reconcile the psychology of the man with the evidence. He arranges for the convicted killer to escape, risking his reputation and job discovering the identity of the true murderer while drawing on his pipe and sipping at his Calvados.The Maigret novels are addictive.
A Man's Head felt like one of the best Maigret novels I'd read yet, until a rather unsatisfying final solution to the mystery. It starts with a bang as Maigret allows a death-row prisoner to escape in order to help Maigret find the real murderer. I especially liked the interplay between Maigret and the actual murderer, reflecting Simenon's recurring theme of kinship between criminal and detective.
İlk başlarda aşırı sıkıcı, karmakarışık gibi gözükmesi sizi aldatmasın, az kalsın beni okumaktan vazgeçiriyordu. Ne iyi ki vazgeçmemişim diyebiliyorsam 4.5 puanı hak ediyor.Spoiler vermek istemiyorum tek diyeceğim Radek karakterini iyi inceleyin. Adam başlı başına kitap. Kitap heyecanlandırdı mı? Heyecanlandırdı.
Meh. I've now read two Maigret novels, and I just don't see what the big sneeze is about them. I read one in French, and thought, "Meh...but maybe it's because my French is rusty." Well, now I've read one in English, and had exactly the same reaction, so I don't think the language is the problem.There's just not much there, there.
Definitely wouldn't have seen this ending coming, one of his darkest and most psychologically complicated Maigret stories that I've read. Most are pretty slick and good enough to just keep reading one after another, this one actually made me stop and think afterwards.
Highly enjoyable. Always like a bit of the cat and mouse game between detective and criminal.
