https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/735107.Problem_at_Pollensa_Bay_and_Other_Stories
Problem at Pollensa Bay and Other Stories (Hercule Poirot #43), Agatha ChristieProblem at Pollensa Bay and Other Stories is a short story collection by Agatha Christie published in the UK only, in November 1991 by HarperCollins. List of stories: Problem at Pollensa Bay; The Second Gong; Yellow Iris; The Harlequin Tea Set; The Regatta Mystery; The Love Detectives; Next To A Dog; Magnolia Blossom. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دهم ماه دسامبر سال 2013 میلادیعنوان: مشکل در لنگرگاه پولنسا ؛ نویسنده: آگاتا کریستی؛ا. شربیانی

The two final romance stories caught me by surprise. I could do without those, but Mr Harley Quin is worth any kind of torture.
Did anyone else notice the sexual tension between Mr Satterthwaite and Harley Quinn?
Bircok oykuden olusmus bir roman... Oncelikle Agathanin sasirtan zekasindan cok siradan oykuleri isleyen bir yazar havasi veriyor. Okurken ne yazik ki sıkıldım ve oykuler arasinda cok koptum. Okunabilir ama bir Agatha heyecani yok ne yazik ki...
A collection of eight short stories, three of Agatha Christie's creations make their appearance- Mr. Harley Quin, Mr. Parker Pyne and Mr. Poirot. One story in the collection is just another short story without any game of detection. Most of these stories were written in early 1930s and therefore have a significant vintage value for Christie's fans. Otherwise an average read
This is a book of short stories.Problem at Pollensa BayIf you have read her Parker Pyne stories before you will guess what's going to happen.
I think she was trying to be a little mystical, but it didn't work for me.I didn’t read the last two at all.
I think this is the first time in over 40 years of reading Agatha Christie that I have ever given up on one of her books.
I read somewhere that AC shouldn't have tried to write short stories and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle shouldn't have tried to write full-length novels.
I initially picked this up because of the two Poirot stories included in this collection, but was then introduced to Mr Satterthwaite and his acquaintance Mr Harley Quin. What a discovery! A great duo, with a combination of crime and the supernatural. Looking forward to reading The Mysterious Mr Quin now.
Agatas Kristi detektīvromānos galvenais personāžs ir Herkuls Puaro. Tieši šajā viņas grāmatā ar nosaukumu „Problēma Polensas līcī” ir ne tikai stāstīts par šo problēmu, bet arī par vairākiem citiem notikumiem. Gandrīz visos stāstos Herkulu Puaro atrisināt visas mīklas pamudina viņa ziņkārība. Tā kā viņš dzīvo Francijā, tad arī visi notikumi risinās tur.  Kā jau minēju, šajā stāstu grāmatā ir dažādi stāsti ar dažādiem notikumiem, taču tiem ir kopīgas iezīmes. Piemēram, viena no tām ir tāda, ka H
Tieši šajā viņas grāmatā ar nosaukumu „Problēma Polensas līcī” ir ne tikai stāstīts par šo problēmu, bet arī par vairākiem citiem notikumiem.
Tā kā viņš dzīvo Francijā, tad arī visi notikumi risinās tur.
Kā jau minēju, šajā stāstu grāmatā ir dažādi stāsti ar dažādiem notikumiem, taču tiem ir kopīgas iezīmes.
Tā kā visi šie notikumi risinās mazliet senākā francijā, tad, protams, viņam ir arī labi koptas ūsas.
Puaro valoda ir oficiāla un arī pēc tās var secināt, ka viņš nedzīvo mūsdienu pasaulē.
Manuprāt, tas ir labi, jo tā var vieglāk saprast par ko ir stāstīts.
Reizēm tas kaitina, taču var arī šo to iemācīties.
Second Gong/Gong Kedua: 3 starsHercule Poirot menyelesaikan kasus pembunuhan seorang lelaki eksentrik yang dianggap bunuh diri.
Yellow Iris/Bunga Iris Kuning: 4 starsHercule Poirot menggagalkan percobaan pembunuhan terhadap seorang gadis dalam sebuah acara makan malam di restoran.
The Regatta Mystery/Misteri Regatta: 3 starsParker Pyne berhasil menangkap komplotan pencuri berlian yang menyamar.The Love Detectives/Detektif-detektif Cinta: 2 starsMr. Satterthwaite menyelesaikan kasus pembunuhan seorang lelaki yang istrinya terlibat skandal perselingkuhan.Next to a Dog/Lebih Penting Seekor Anjing: 2 starsSeorang gadis, yang sedang mengalami kesulitan keuangan, yang tinggal bersama anjing kesayangannya.
Tidak ada kasus kriminal apa pun dalam cerita ini.
Seharusnya mungkin ini kisah yang sedih tapi saya merasa datar dan biasa saja.
This is a collection of short stories including some featuring Hercule Poirot, a Parker Pyne story and some Mr Satterthwaite and Harley Quinn stories as well as a couple which don’t feature any of the author’s regular detectives.
I particularly enjoyed the Harley Quinn stories as they always have that extra dimension as well as being mysteries.
I particularly enjoyed the last story in the collection ‘Magnolia Blossom’ which caused me to reach for the tissues.
It certainly shows human nature in the worst possible light.
Apart from that one I also enjoyed ‘The Harlequin Tea Set’ and ‘The Love Detectives’.
A set of short but riveting reads from Agatha Christie.
I had read this collection before but accidentally bought it because I wanted to have something to read during a train journey.
Didn't matter because as it turned out I had forgotten the ending in most of the stories.
I had something gripping to read while the train click-clocked.
Next on my pile is Dumb Witness which I bought at the same time and likewise discovered I have already read it.
Don't remember it much and hope I don't recall the end as I read :)
warning - cover should read and other short stories if i had known this i would not have read it - 8 books condensed into just over 200 pages 2 of these feature mr parker pyne, 2 mr satterthwaite and the mysterious mr quin and of course 2 with poirot. the other 2 have no detectives not a lover of short stories i would give this 3 stars. such a shortage of pages fails to catch my attention bev
Okuduğum ilk Agatha Christie kitabıydı ve sanırım yanlış kitaptan başladım yazarı tanımak için. 8 kısa hikaye var ve ben hiçbirini anlamadım desem yeridir. Adının ‘Cinayet Randevusu’ olduğuna bakmayın, Polisiye, korku, gerilim en azından bunlardan bir tanesini bekledim ama hiçbiri yoktu. Üzgünüm sevmedim. Sadece yarım kitap bırakmayı sevmediğim için okudum ve Allahtan inceydi kitap.
Son iki öyküyü saymazsak çok beğendiğim hikayeler okudum. Parker Pyne ve Gizemli Harley Quin tanışmakta geç kaldığım iki karaktermiş gördüm. İki de Poirot hikayesi vardı ki sanki ikisini de daha önce okudum gibi geldi. Gerçekten güzel zaman geçirten bir kitaptı. Eksikleri tamamlamaya devam.
Nice wee intro to Agatha for me :) I liked the short stories for reading on holiday.
A book of short stories by AC. I much prefer the novels
Mr. Parker Pyne juga sedang berlibur di cerita ini ketika didatangi seorang lelaki yang dituduh mencuri, padahal sebetulnya tidak.
Lelaki itu meminta Mr. Parker Pyne membersihkan namanya.Selain Mr. Parker Pyne, Hercule Poirot juga mengambil bagian di buku ini, yaitu dalam cerita Gong Kedua dan Bunga Iris Kuning.
Gong Kedua bercerita tentang si tuan rumah yang dibunuh ketika mengadakan makan malam besar, dan salah seorang tamu berdebat tentang gong panggilan makan malam.
Untungnya dengan kesigapan Hercule Poirot, kasus ini tertangani tanpa ada jatuh korban lagi.Lalu ada dua cerita yang melibatkan Mr. Satterthwaite dan Mr. Harley Quin, kedua tokoh favoritku, yaitu Perangkat Teh Harlequin dan Detektif-Detektif Cinta.
AN UGLY TRUTHRemember when I wrote I had read everything Agatha Christie had written?
Well, not being able to face this ugly truth, I scoured the web in order to find some short stories I had overlooked...
And, luckily, I found them!
They were in English and included in collections (the other one is "The witness for the prosecution and other stories") the major part of which I had already read, so I selected just the stories I didn't know.
Goodbye, Agatha, it has been a pleasure!"«You are going?»«To freedom.
It's a collection of Agatha Christie's mini stories.
It contained even love story, something I rarely seen on her work.
Like her other works, she emphasized in emotion and human darkest mind in her love story.
I don't even think everyone will agree to categorize it as love story.
I enjoy reading this, but there was no moment of sudden gasp when the culprit was found, like what I felt whenever I read her other works.
It's a short stories after all.
I think the aim of the stories was to be a light reading object
Suka kumpulan cerita ini *smooch* Alasan utamanya karena seTUMBEN-TUMBENnya bisa nebak skenario Tuan Pyne di Pollensa dan bisa teriak di waktu yang hampir bersamaan dengan Tuan Satterthwaite untuk mencegah si anak yang mau diracun ibu tirinya. Yeah!Dan tokoh wanita di dua cerita terakhir itu, terutama Next to a Dog, greget banget. Amat menimbulkan simpati. Girl power, Joyce!!  mungkin dog power juga? HahahaThanks to Kakak Guguk yang sampai melungsurkan kolprinya untukku <~ ini ngga bikin greget tapi gemes..
Upgrading this rating to 2.5 stars after rereading it in 2015.I found this collection of short stories to be a bit of a grab bag. On the whole, it was a pleasant way to spend some time however, I find several of these stories not really to my taste. In particular, I am not a fan of the hint of supernatural found in the Mr. Satterthwaite stories. I did like the two Parker Pyne stories "The Problem at Pollensa Bay" and "The Regatta Mystery" and the non-mystery story "Next to a Dog" was very touching.
El primer libro entero que leí en mi vida (a los diez años, y sin contar los cuentos para niños y los libros de la serie Escalofríos de R.L. STINE XD).Miren, intacto! (Pero, adentro, lleno de arena de playa de hace casi quince años)Parker Pyne era mi detective favorito.
This was a bit of a mixed bag. There were eight short stories, some better than others. I was disappointed that they were not all Poirot, some of Christie's other detective characters just don't measure up to him.
Rather a mish-mash of eight short stories which don't really have much to do with each other. Two Poirots, two "Harley Quin and Mr Satterthwaite", two Parker Pyne and two short stories with no main detective. I think I enjoyed "The Harlequin tea set" the most
Agatha Christie's short fiction is very different to her novels. I'm not sure if she was just experimenting, but some of these stories are very weird. The book is worth a read because, as the stories span decades of her career, they provide an interesting overview of her changing style.
My first meeting with Mr Satterwaite and Harley Quin. I must say it was quite a supernatural and weird meeting.
Agatha Christie doesn't disappoint. I love her novels so it was interesting to read some of her short stories. I am quite fond of Mr Parker Pyne and his cleverness. Also Mr Satterthwaite and especially his partnership with the mysterious Harley Quinn (now I know where the creators of Batman found a little of their inspiration!) Just the right mix of intrigue, suspense, and creepiness. Particularly liked The Yellow Iris, The Regatta Mystery, and the Harlequin Tea Set. Elaborate puzzles with exciting, well written conclusions. Very entertaining little book!
Eight short stories, two featuring Mr Parker Pyne, two featuring Mr Satterthwaite and Mr Harley Quin, two featuring Hercule Poirot, and two with no detective, but with strong moral women in difficult situations. I enjoyed reading all of the stories, but it was particularly interesting reading Yellow Iris and The Second Gong, which have both been made into Poirot episodes, and seeing how those episodes built on these slight stories.
The narrator of this audiobook is excellent and for the most part the stories are entertaining. The exception is the last 2 stories that are not mysteries but stand alone stories that do not have any of Christie's recognized characters. These stories I did not like because one had no definitive ending and the other was just an incident from a marriage, and it was depressing. This book is for the fans because it is just assorted stories with very little linking them.
