https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10335308-is-everyone-hanging-out-without-me
She’s the kind of friend who would never shame you for loving (just as a few completely out-there random examples which have absolutely nothing at all to do with me) When Harry Met Sally (like, to the point where I you can recite every single line), or Sixteen and Pregnant, or US Weekly, or cheddar cheese pretzels, or house music.One of my favorite chapters in this book is entitled “Best Friend Rights and Responsibilities” and outlines a few of Mindy Kaling’s rules for BFF-dom:“I MUST BE 100 PERCENT HONEST ABOUT HOW YOU LOOK, BUT GENTLEYour boyfriend is never going to tell you that your skirt is too tight and riding up too high on you.
Pro: I would be relieved of Mindy Kaling's screechy voice and vacuous musings forever.
I suffered through this book in its entirety, so that I would be able to write a justifiably flaming review.Ms. Kaling's book follows a painfully predictable formula: (1) complain about being an overweight child, but revel in how you are now a famous and wealthy person, while your childhood bullies languish in obscurity with children born out of wedlock.
Thankfully, it was a brief chapter.Sitcom writer Ms. Kaling may be.
But my, how therapeutic writing this review has been.
I APPLAUD it and Endorse it! I LOVED this book, Mindy is just a funny gal who is pretty in check with reality. I have trouble writing a review for a book I love. I feel I just wont do it justice. Mindy makes hilarious observations in numerous essays that fill this joy of a book. Instead of trying to articulate what this is and what I find funny I thought I would grab some random quotes as a recommendation.QUOTES“I’m the kind of person who would rather get my hopes up really high and watch them
I LOVED this book, Mindy is just a funny gal who is pretty in check with reality.
I have trouble writing a review for a book I love.
It works out.” “ The chorus of “Jack and Diane” is: Oh yeah, life goes on, long after the thrill of living is gone.Are you kidding me?
The thrill of living was high school?
I say it’s acid in the face — who will love them now?” "There is no sunrise so beautiful that it is worth waking me up to see it.” I realize now I might write out her whole book, but she is awesome and this book is soooo much fun!So final thoughts
It felt like sitting in an LA coffee shop and chatting with Mindy for a few hours, hearing a bunch of funny anecdotes, and getting to know her a little better.What did I like?
I liked the conversational tone, the funny stories, the pictures, learning about her climb to becoming a comedy writer, some insightful moments, the emphasis on family, her love of comedy and creation, and her all round positive and "be a good person" attitude.What didn't I like?
I made the mistake of thinking I would read only one essay of this book before going to bed... I stayed up till 3am to finish the whole thing in one sitting. It's been so long since this has happened, especially going into it not even expecting to finish one essay. But Kaling has one of the most conversational, delightful and funniest voices in writing. It's nearly impossible to put down Is Everyone Hanging Out Without Me? This book was simply fun, and I unexpectedly learned a lot about various
This book was simply fun, and I unexpectedly learned a lot about various topics such as: female friendships (the essay about Mindy befriending Mavis was one of my favorites), health insurance (& how much Kaling loves it), The Office (& how Rainn Wilson’s so horrible), Irish exits, “and a healthy dose of unfair situations that now seem funny in retrospect, unfair situations that I still don’t think are funny, Hollywood, heartache, and my childhood.”And since we're already on topic, Mindy Kaling writing about her childhood and coming-of-age was one of the funniest and relatable things I've read as of late.
This was such a joy to listen to! I definitely recommend the audiobook.
which simply means this: it's hard to write a memoir that lasts more than 70 pages.
but then she's only up to 150 pages and she's fucked.
so she goes to her phone and flips through her photos and thinks, hey, i could just write about these, and other bullshit like it, to satisfy a respectable book length.
that said, this book has really, really funny parts, and the first half is perfect in every way.
that said, i did finish it in like, three days, so if you're looking for a sense of accomplishment, this book is for you.
With short essays like "Why Do Men Put on Their Shoes So Slowly?" and "In Defense of Chest Hair", which graze their topics no more deeply than the titles suggest, Kaling almost sounds like she's half-heartedly trying out for the late and perpetually cranky Andy Rooney's vacated gig on 60 Minutes.It's a shame, because the first two-thirds of Kaling's effort is an engaging memoir chronicling a thoroughly conventional upbringing and an unlikely rise to notoriety and television scripting fame.
Her circuitous route to her career is both affable and a fun read—which makes it all the more disappointing that once she reaches the heights at NBC, the rest of the book sputters out when it has nowhere to go.It seems unfairly reductive that the memoir will inevitably undergo comparisons with her same-network compatriot Tiny Fey's Bossypants.
i love Mindy , i love comedy , i love laughing , i love reading , i love laughing while reading ! This Audiobook was totally worth my time :D she is amazing and funny , Especially her high school bullying stories. i love how she can make a terrible thing so funny.
[image error] AND ITS NOT MINDY KALING’S FAULT!
Point is, as a result of the aforementioned facts, almost all the numerous countless culture reference sounded like Blah Blah Blah to my ears.Mindy would go "remember that scene "And I would go...ummm  NO That leads to the freaking question: WHY DID I READ/LISTEN TO THIS BOOK?
There are parts like when she describes her view on one night stand or muses about cat manicure shop after she becomes a trophy wife that were especially hilarious!Warning:Don't expect Mindy to be Rofl level funny though.
When my boyfriend, Keith, and I were dating for about 5 or 6 months, we decided to go on a trip to Oklahoma together for the weekend (to see a Linkin Park concert, definitely not because we thought Oklahoma was cool...although we kind of enjoyed it).
He finds girls, dates them for 5 or 6 months, plans a trip out of state with them to "see a concert" and murders them?
I know it seems kind of paranoid, but you know, one day, I'm going to get murdered and dumped in Oklahoma and all my friends and family will not only know who did it, but where my body is.
I've been reading a few comedic autobiographies & I guess I'm probably justaboutnow a 'lil addicted to them ("Born Standing Up" by Steve Martin, "The Bedwetter" by Sarah Silverman...).
We are inspired by her avant-garde beginnings (she wrote a script about Matt Damon & Ben Affleck writing "Good Will"-- and played Affleck in the play sensation "Matt & Ben"!) and entertained big-time with her big-time break as writer and producer to the sensational "The Office." We are fortunate to get the 411, too, on important "zeitgeisty" stuff like karaoke etiquette, best friend rights, the importance of compartmentalizing--even on the huge non-issue of sexual differentiation between comedians of both sexes in the 2010's (something very positive & revolutionary even), and, in all seriousness, thank you Mindy, for the indispensable section which pleads with men to "Please leave your chest hair alone!" The cool girl totally keeps it real, y'all.I only disagree with her overboard girlie stuff (conventional marriage, disapproval of comedy roasts, crying over fashion)--but this is refreshing, too.
I'm not a huge fan of Mindy-- meaning, I do like her in what I've seen her in, but I'm not die-hard for anything she's done--but I decided to read this nonetheless because I'm all about supporting successful women.
It feels like i'm listening to a long interview with Mindy.
So far she has made a few problematic jokes using slurs (tr*nny, g*psy), but this book is 5 years old and I don't know enough about her comedy to know if those are regular words in her vocab.
There were a few parts that she made some jokes I don't agree with, but for the most part, the book was nice because it was short and entertaining.
It just didn't 'take'.Here's my thoughts on why I didn't care for it (and I guess I'm a lone wolf, here!) Mindy Kaling tried to come across like a good friend, and listed one of the reasons to read the book as: 'What else are you going to read after you finish Chelsea's book?'...Ummm...I know Chelsea isn't for everyone, but it's not easy to be funny like she is, and don't assume you can do it.Don't be so presumptuous!
I felt Mindy was trying to imply some kind of intimacy with the reader that she hadn't earned.Like she was saying: "Nudge, nudge, you know what I mean!
“Sometimes teenage girls ask me for advice about what they should be doing if they want a career like mine one day. There are basically two ways to get where I am: (1) learn a provocative dance and put it on YouTube; (2) convince your parents to move to Orlando and homeschool you until you get cast on a kids’ show...or do what I did, which is (3) stay in school and be a respectful and hardworking wallflower, and go to an accredited non-online university.” Ahhhh this book was EXACTLY what I was
Ours is the great non-love story of my life.”“In the genre of “making you feel like you’re not having an awesome American high school experience,” the worst offender is actually a song: John Cougar Mellencamp’s “Jack and Diane"… I wish there was a song called “Nguyen and Ari,” a little ditty about a hard-working Vietnamese girl who helps her parents with the franchised Holiday Inn they run, and does homework in the lobby, and Ari, a hardworking Jewish boy who does volunteer work at his grandmother’s old-age home, and they meet after school at Princeton Review.
So, she was born the same month and year I graduated from high school, which technically makes her young enough to be my daughter...I STILL want to be Mindy's best pal!I haven't a clue why I decided to read this book.
I want to congratulate them on making it big in an industry that values looks above all else.
Mindy is one of these people.
It's about a girl just like me.So, Mins...anytime you want to spend Friday night at The Cheesecake Factory, I'll buy the Cokes.

I'm not usually one to read celebrity biographies and/or memoirs, but come on—this is Mindy's book we're talking about here.
(hide spoiler)]What I usually hate about celeb memoirs is that they just go ahead and talk about boring shit: how bad they had it, but now their lives are amazing blahblahbla, and I'm like, dude, no, I don't want to read about that shit.
She made me feel like we were new best friends and it was her turn to tell me everything about her life before me.
Listened to this on my 10hr drive today, and it was exactly what I needed! It kept me in a great mood on an otherwise very bleak, rainy drive. Rating it 3 because it was enjoyable but overall didn’t have a big impact on me.
Fun and enjoyable audiobook read by Mindy herself. Light entertainment to keep me company on my commute to and from work.
A comedic but ultimately deep and poignant memoir, Is Everyone Hanging out Without Me is an unforgettable story of finding your talent in spite of childhood embarrassments.
To quote the author: “This book will take you two days to read.
If you’re reading this book every night for months, something is not right.”Except it took about two and a half hours tops.
Kaling is proud of all the work she put into her career, but also aware of all the breaks she got which help keep her ego under wraps.
The stories are entertaining and Kaling is extremely open about previous and current struggles with her weight without ever being 'poor me' for more than a few sentences at a time.
Overall a shallow read in maybe the most charming way possible.
For those of you who didn't find this book funny, I'm going to go ahead and assume that you probably didn't get the humour.
It stands to reason that if you don't find this book funny, then you mostly likely don't find The Office or The Mindy Project funny either.
It's full of incredibly oblivious, narcissistic, annoying characters.
Mindy has many narcissistic, annoying moments, which she acknowledges immediately as such, and then proceeds to make fun of herself.
This is a really sweet, light-hearted and very funny account of Mindy Kaling's childhood, adolescence, and early career.
If you're a fan of Mindy Kaling's work, you will definitely enjoy this book.
I had greater expectations for this memoir or essays. It had a promising beginning, but I didn't learn anything from reading this book, it's funny in some parts but overall it was okay.
That is the Mindy Kaling I'm a fan of and that's how I'd expected the entire book to be.
So the whole book is divided into seven parts: the first four pretty much sucked (except when she talked about how wonderful Amy Poehler is in real life, which made me- a HUGE Parks and Rec fan- jump for joy!) and the last three sections is why I added the extra star bumping the rating up to a grand total of two stars!
As a person who has seen every episode of the office more than once (okay, fine, more than 5 times) I already think Mindy Kaling, writer and actor who plays character Kelly Kapoor, is really funny.(I want to throw out a WARNING about this book, similar to what I did when I read and reviewed Tina Fey's Bossypants - If you already don't like Mindy Kaling, if you already don't like The Office, if you already hate female comedians, etc, you probably won't like this book.
Boom - 1/5 stars, that book sucks.Anyway - on to my actual book review:I don't have a twitter account, so I don't know her hilarious, character (as in keyboard characters)-limiting quips that she is well-known for, but I do read her blog and I think she is cute and funny.
That being said, I wanted to read a funny comedian book and have already been through Tina Fey, Kathy Griffin, Jenny Lawson, Chelsea Handler and Sarah Silverman.
(Another confession - I REALLY wanted to read Dad is Fat by Jim Gaffigan, but there’s a waiting list.) Good news is, Mindy Kaling’s book is funny (unlike Sarah Silverman’s horrible snoozer).
She’s funny enough that in a state of insomnia I went on The Demand channel and queued up an episode of The Mindy Project.
A light, humorous, and overall forgettable memoir about Mindy Kaling's upbringing and her success as an actress and television writer.
Kaling injects humor into even ordinary anecdotes, and I even laughed aloud a couple of times (e.g., when she writes that she went to Dartmouth to pursue her love of white people and North Face parkas).Overall, recommended to fans of Kaling and to those who feel curious about her life.
I do think that Kaling could have delved deeper into certain issues and could have conducted a more rigorous self-analysis, though perhaps we will read that in her next release, Why Not Me?
i love mindy kaling. she's one of my favorite celebrities ever and one of my biggest sources of inspiration. and i liked this memoir. mindy has such a distinctly charming/narcissistic comedic voice that i adore and i'll probably read every book she ever comes out with. however, this one had a lot of chapters that felt like they were just there to fill space. when things weren't recollections or memories of life events, i felt myself losing interest.
I love Mindy Kaling with all my heart and this book just sealed the deal. I love reading books like this and Tina Fey's Bossypants as I want to peruse a creative career and I am so interested in how these two wonderful women got to where they are today.
