https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3064985-wondrous-strange
If you are a fan of faerie books, you’ll want to read this one.
If you’ve tried faerie books before, but didn’t like them, you’ll want to read this.
If you aren’t a fan of faerie books, you’ll still want to read it.
Incredible characters, incredible writing, incredible plot.
And I don’t mean that in the quality of writing, because they are both fabulous writers.
Do you think I’m subconsciously doing it because of the whole faerie thing...
I wonder if she knows any faeries personally?I think the thing I loved most about this novel was Kelley.
Without even reading the inside flap, I grabbed the book and headed to the register.
Parts of the interaction between Kelley and Sonny are hilarious, as he isn't quite accustomed to some modern speech patterns, and they sort of baffle and confuse each other when they first meet (and later as well.) It's a cute and sweet little commentary on communication that I really enjoyed.The end was satisfying (again with the looking hopefully to the future as opposed to the everyting-is-so-happy-with-rainbows-and-pants-that-never-wrinkle ending) though it left me desperately hoping that a sequel is in the works.
I mostly just liked seeing how Queen Mabh, Fennrys Wolf, the fae lord of the Spring Court, and all of the other typical mythological figures + the characters from Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream would fit into the story.
Kelley gets thrown into the role of Queen Titania in A Midsummer Night's Dream and is wandering around Central Park practicing her lines when she runs into a Sonny.
Then most of the characters from Shakespeare's play turn out to be real and Kelley finds out she's (view spoiler)[more or less a faerie princess (hide spoiler)].I had a hard time getting into the whole story, though.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI didn't post any status updates for this - stealth review!!!When you're as busy as I am, you want to have a book on you at all times. At any given moment, I have one to two books in my purse, even if I'm just going to the hair salon. You never know when you might be kept waiting! WONDROUS STRANGE was my most recent book purse and I finished it in just two days.I was a bit hesitant about starting this book. It came out in 2009, at the start
Faeries are like the squeaky-clean version of vampires: immortal and powerful without that whole "gross and dead and bloody" thing.Anyway, getting back to the book, the main character is a girl named Kelley who is involved with the Avalon theater company in New York.
And this time, they'll want difficult prey.Obviously, since this is a YA paranormal book, the heroine is not all that she seems, has a secret past, blah blah blah, etc.
Especially since I recently read another YA book about theater called ECHO AFTER ECHO, which left me wanting more.The beginning of this book is much better than the end, however.
If you are a fan of faerie books, you'll want to read this one.
If you've tried faerie books before, but didn't like them, you'll want to read this.
If you aren't a fan of faerie books, you'll still want to read it.
Incredible characters, incredible writing, incredible plot.
I think the thing I loved most about WONDROUS STRANGE was Kelley.
When a cute guy tells her that faeries are real, she reacts like a normal person and laughs in his face.
I simply cannot say enough good things about this novel.
Always choose a book by its cover...
I liked this book.
Despite what I am about to say next.Definitely better written and far less angsty than  Wicked Lovely, somewhat lacking in the descriptive area (esp.
It was more humorous than I expected, which was good.
It was less dramatic than I expected, which was not so good.
On the MarySue-issue, ding!
Shiny, twinkly, nothing-wrong-with-her, everyone-loves-you MarySue.It did really make me want to re-read  A Midsummer Night's Dream, which is the thematic basis for the book.I'll keep this book but I doubt I'll read it again...
Man, I wish we had half-stars!
I'd give this another half up, for Bob and possibly Lucky.
I see that most people seem to have really liked this book, but it really rubbed me the wrong way.
It felt very flat and predictable.
I would have liked to have had a sense that there was real danger at hand, but the writing lacked the necessary tension to pull off the New York City apocalypse scenario.
(See: The City's End Two Centuries of Fantasies, Fears, and Premonitions of New York's Destruction) I generally really enjoy books like this, but it just didn't draw me in.
That said, I'll most likely read the next book in the series when it comes out.
Unreadably bad.If I found a fairy horse in my bathtub, I'd call animal control. Come on, you're mature enough to move to NYC on your own and make a living as an actress but you don't know how to call the police?It probably didn't help the book that the main love interest's name is Sonny, and when I think of Sonny, I think of an annoying, chubby little boy in 4th grade who annoyed the f*** out of me.
The story is meh.The characters are dum, it is appalling how stupid Sunny is. This is another case of TSTL characters. No, thank you.
I'm a huge Shakespeare fan so I loved all the references. Also really liked Bob and the kelpie horse. There's a great twist you won't see coming. If you're in the mood for fairies, give this one a try.
It's apparent to Sonny, at least, that something huge is afoot, that one of the Faerie rulers in up to something that could spell disaster for the mortal world - and that Kelley is somehow pivotal.I've been meaning to read this for a while - since last year's Polaris convention, actually, where I got to meet Livingston and hear her do a reading from the book.
I had always understood - and I still do - that a changeling was the fake, replacement fae baby fairies leave behind when they steal a human child.
This is particularly interesting because the entire story takes place in New York City - the "Otherworld," as it is known, is only referenced.There's something in particular that I found really neat: So often in faerie fiction, you hear the same things over and over: Seelie/Unseelie, Winter & Summer Courts.
It was really cool to have Sonny's perspective and be able to have a window into the faerie world.
I think she's the first character I've encountered who's done that (I graduated early too!) She's 17 and living in New York City as an actress.
*Slight spoilers*I write this review as I stare at my Pretty Pretty Princess board game.Why?Because this book makes me wish I was a ginger fairy princess myself, so that I could take Kelley's place and think rationally rather than try to save a half-ton horse, especially when it's a kelpie and trying to kill me so it can eat me.
I gave the book two stars: one for Fuck it All, and the second because who knows, maybe it gets better in the pages I missed.I'm gonna go play Pretty Pretty Princess.
Kelley is an actress. Well, actually more of an understudy/glorified stagehand, but when the person playing the faerie queen breaks an ankle it’s . . . show time! Or more accurately time for Kelley to forget half her lines and stomp off to Central Park for some serious rehearsal AKA self-reproachment.Which results in . . .A. Kelley receiving a rose from “the mysterious good-looking guy” (whose real name is Sonny, and who is actually a changeling human in charge of guarding the gate to faerie and
Or more accurately time for Kelley to forget half her lines and stomp off to Central Park for some serious rehearsal AKA self-reproachment.Which results in .
. .A. Kelley receiving a rose from “the mysterious good-looking guy” (whose real name is Sonny, and who is actually a changeling human in charge of guarding the gate to faerie and keeping all the scary creatures from wreaking havoc on New York).B. Kelley rescuing a horse (actually a kelpie) from “drowning” and winding up with said horse living in her bathtub,C.
And the fact that Kelley’s kelpie eats Lucky Charms.
Being a Shakespeare lover would help with this book.
I mean, I like Midsummer Night's Dream, but actors, especially theater people who do Shakespeare are annoying as hell.
I was born and raised in L.A., every other person I knew in my twenties was an actor.
Most of them are fine, unless they are in character, but this brand, the Renaissance festival folks...ugh!My next gripe is the love interest guy's first name is Sonny.
My dog's name is Sunny - a big yellow lab.
It's a girl dog.
I will name him Sonny 2.
Wondrous Strange is another YA fantasy take on the 'normal girl becomes a fairy princess' theme.
The setting is New York City, and the scene opens with a 17 year-old living on her own, with a job as an understudy in a way-off Broadway production.
Predictably, the star twists her ankle, and the heroine is thrust into the main part, as Titania in Shakespeare's play, and fairy-fueled chaos ensues shortly thereafter.
The main problems with the book are over-used cliches, poorly-drawn characters, wildly improbable settings and happenings, along with overall predictability.
Good bits: use of Shakespeare, descriptions of Central Park, range of different fairy creatures.
I love Midsummers Night Dream and The Fae so I absolutely loved this book!
this book was hilarious but in a bad way. intrigued me because it was a modern take on shakespeare's a midsummer night's dream but it was so poorly written and executed that it had me laughing at it's sheer stupidity. ashamed to say i finished it. dialogue could've been written by a 12 year old.
I got this one for Christmas...YAY!!!
In fact, I dislike those.Once I got past the rather boring beginning to the point where Kelley meets Sonny and finds the kelpie, it started to get better.
I particularly enjoyed the moments with Kelley and the kelpie.The end set up the sequel where Kelley has to use Mabh's dark fairy magic to rescue Sonny from Auberon.
Still, the story was completed for this section so, unless you're particularly interested in the Kelley/Sonny love story, I don't know that it's necessary to read more.
It just tied up any ends that I was interested in.There was one thing, though, that really bothered me while I was reading.
The characters were two dimensional, not well developed, and did not grow.
Questions were left unanswered, certain plot developments were glossed over, and there was a serious lack of character introspection, which would have given the book more depth.
It also suffered from a case of tell than show; much of the book seemed to be a narrative of backstory and/or explanations with little action or dialogue to advance the storyline.
What dialogue there was was awkward.
The more I read, the more distant I felt from characters and book.
I may or may not get around to reading the next book.
The rating is a gift, I know it's a book certain people will really enjoy.
I didn't care for the way it was written, the tone nor the way the story was laid out.
Please enjoy this if it's your cup of tea...or fairy wine.
I have a long to be read list and I really wasn't enjoying this, so please my "friends" who have enjoyed this series, don't hold it against me...I just didn't care for it.I went with 2 because I've read far worse and see what some will like.
It's more that I don't care for the "type" of book than this book in particular.
Non potevo scegliere un titolo migliore di "Wondrous Strange" per affrontare il mio periodo di ritorno al passato, a quando leggevo i meravigliosi fantasy della collana Lain della Fazi.Questo libro mi è piaciuto tantissimo, partendo dai personaggi per poi arrivare a tutta la trama.
È questo il caso del libro della Livingston e sicuramente in questi giorni leggerò i seguiti perché era da tempo che un fantasy non mi piaceva così tanto.Le fate sono sempre le fate ed è grazie a loro se mi sono avvicinata alla lettura de piccola, grazie a loro continuo ancora ad amarla.
After reading Melissa Marr's Wicked Lovely, or any of the numerous American Urban Fantasy takes on the exact same theme I'm actually pretty done and pretty bored.
I like the Central Park central location and a certain kelpie  who moves into a bathtub.Unfortunately all of that which I liked, and which fans of the Irish-specific mythology as Urban Fantasy genre will also like doesn't lead to a great book.
The discovery of Lucky the kelpie and the fact that she's a fairy princess takes up too much time and the actual battle and conflict is rushed into the last few pages of the book.
I loved that she would not believe Sonny about what he was trying to tell her.
Kelley was for real, she actually acted like how a real person would act, and not just the way some lovey-dovey girl swooning at the regal, beautiful mythical man would, and believing everything he says because he’s so perfect and beautiful.
I fell in love with Sonny the moment he jumped up on the railing in the beginning of the book.
It wasn’t the typical story where the girl falls hard at the first sight of the boy, and would do anything for him, believe anything he says.
With every faerie story I’ve read, it’s either been strictly intense or dolled up, but I love that Lesley Livingston found a happy medium.Kelley is probably one of my favorite literary characters of all time.
Her interaction and budding romance with Sonny, a human who guards the faerie Samhain Gate, was hilarious and refreshing - a definite role reversal to the usual “guy is laid back, girl is serious and determined” cliché.I love that I felt so educated afterwards!
Mixing magic, romance, some intense action scenes and a lovable kelpie that lives in Kelley’s bathtub, it’s a fun thrill-ride.
I’ve been seeing so many new YA books by Lesley Livingston with amazing covers and as a good bookworm, I’ve been dying to read them.
(Typical bookworm reaction lol)These new books also made me want to revisit her first trilogy Wondrous Strange which I read a long, long time ago.
The wonder of re-reading a book after ages is you feel like you’re reading it again for the first time, with new eyes.Lesley Livingston’s style of writing is fun and witty, making the story interesting to read, with a delightful cast of characters.
If you haven’t read Wondrous Strange yet, you definitely should.Posted on Blog
WONDROUS STRANGE is one of those books you read on a crisp fall day--and seeing as fall has already fallen here in Deutschland, it was the perfect story to fill my YA/paranormal/fantasy cravings.I loved Kelley's character.
She's spunky, funny, and strong--things I always look for in a heroine.
Genius!And oooooh, I loved the Queen Mabh element.
Just imagining her sends chills down my spine, Ms. Livingston did a GREAT job bringing that wicked Faerie and Auberon to life.All in all, this is a fun take on fairy lore.
If you're in the mood for romance, fairies, or kick-butt heroines, be sure to pick up WONDROUS STRANGE!
I loved this book, I hated the ending though.
:( Ah- who am I kidding, I LOVED it!
I love the characters, even the ones I love to hate.
You never expect what will happen next.I just could NOT believe that Sonny couldn't stay with Kelly, ooh- if I could get my hands on Auberon.
They're so in love!
But as for Sonny becoming the rider in the wild hunt, WOW!
That was the park that got my adrenaline pumping.My favorite quote though, was between Auberon and Kelly;  "...My deadbeat dady from fairy tale land..."  I laughed at the part, I thought it was awesome!
I thoroughly enjoyed reading Wondrous Strange. The main character Kelly was brave and spunky, but not so much so that she lost her femininity. It was romantic without being over the top and it had an element of innocence to it that I loved. There was also humor in there that was a nice surprise. As soon as she found the horse in her bathroom I was hooked. I also loved how A Midsummer Night’s Dream was woven into the plot.
