https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/291551.Canticle
OK - before the comments get out of control, let me say a few things#1 - I love Salvatore's work - I
This is a great series, but I have to say, it can be a bit childish at times, and I felt that when I was reading it as a YA.It's good spellcasting, good sword and sorcery. It's got strong characters, a good female lead, and an interesting area of Faerun you don't usually see.While I'm sure I've spelled Faerun wrong, I'd suggest you not make the wrong choice of passing up this first book.
Skoro pa savrseno. Volim njegov stil pisanja. Jedino mi se ne svidja prenemaganje da se upotrebi samostrel u smrtnoj opasnosti.
This is the first book In Salvatore's Cleric Quintet series.
Cadderly, an orphan who has lived his entire life at the library, is a scholar with an appitite for creating new devices (so much so, that he is called a Gondsman[Gond being the god of invention I think, he makes stuff out of metal, he doesn't like magic...:]by his superior in the library).His girlfriend is Danika, a monk of Pen-pod-don, who is studying his teachings at the library.The other important characters are the dwarven brothers, Ivan and --- Boldershoulder, who are the cooks at the library.
But I don't think this book was ever ment to be compared.
This was a really good book and a nice way to start a series.First book in a five book series (The Cleric Quintet) set in the Forgotten Realms.The book revolves around two things.The first is Cadderly, our hero, a 20 year old cleric who has grown up at the Edificant Library.
bad guys, amazing fight sequences.You know what you're getting when you pick up a Salvatore book and this one does not disappoint.
This series is suppose to be his version of the five book series done by the author, David Eddings.
What I like about the book is that it is totally different in structure with Eddings five book series, other than the real quest starts in the second.
The book is not flawed like Eddings, where it is basically a set up on the background and history of the world or characters living their daily live, which could be done in the first 50 pages at best.
This book is the exact opposite of a Eddings book.
Reminds me of the party who takes five hours to get out of the weapons shop. DNF #8.
I'd received the big 3rd Edition D&D boxed set for Christmas that year, so I was primed to care about the multiple shelves of fat, yellowing Forgotten Realms novels that I saw every time I walked into a used book store.I picked up a beat-ass old paperback from the Salvation Army, choosing based on how many 80s heavy-metal-magazine dragons they could wedge onto one bookcover.
Salvatore is a pretty good writer, so long as you walk in with a certain set of expectations.
The flow was pretty good, and he can finish a paragraph with ", and he died." without making it seem dissonant and goofy.Best part is, no elves.
Salvatore heavily relies on the use of adverbs to let us know what a character is thinking or feeling, because honestly there's no other way to tell because he doesn't write about it.
He also uses the same phrases ad nauseum pertaining to certain characters:Keirkan Rufo is "the angular man".Cadderly Bonaduce is "the young scholar".Barjin is "the evil priest".I read in an interview that Salvatore was hard pressed for time when given his contract, and it really shows.
Unfortunately, the interesting parts are few and far between.If you were like me and were intrigued by Cadderly's later appearances in Drizzt and Artemis Entreri's novels, then these books help give you an idea of his character and how he came to be.
When I began it, it was too freaking hot so it burned my tongue, and I couldn’t really taste anything for a long time, but in the end got a sweet taste of the chocolaty goodness….kinda.
I first got this book because of the name of the series, The Cleric Quintet, and I was SUPER excited to read about adventuring clerics, they kinda get a bad rep in the gaming world.
I am looking forward to the next book and I am ready for a cleric gosh darn it!See how that hot chocolate analogy worked…?
Great start to a high fantasy series by R.A. Salvatore. The audio performance is superbly done by Victor Bevine. It is a slow start at building the environment and the characters, with everything built up to the actions in last few chapters. The story flows nicely, and writing is beautiful. I hung in there for the first few chapters; once I got hold on the characters, it becomes a page-turner, with a YA romance budding (yes!). I look forward to the next book!
This was my first attempt at reading anything Salvatore outside of the Drizzt series. Very interesting character development. It was also nice to see him take up another part of the Realms and bring it to life (without any Drow). Will crack open book two at some point as well.
I don't think I even finished it. Main character is a TOTAL Gary-Stu. His character flaw is that he cares too much. I just couldn't keep reading anymore.
The reader is introduced to Cadderly, an inquisitive cleric; Newander, a thoughtful Druid; Danica, a self-disciplined monk trained in the art of hand-to hand combat; and the Bouldershoulder brothers, a dwarven duo.There is also a handful of baddies vying for power among themselves not very far away.
Danica is the most interesting character - she is a monk that goes to the library to study the arts of an ancient grandmaster.If this was my first novel introducing R.A. Salvatore, I would have put it down and probably never would have attempted to read any of his other work.
Stars: 3The only reason it didn't get a higher rating was beacuse i felt like it dragged on in diffrent parts of the book. Otherwise i really enjoyed this book. I loved all the characters and i will be continuing this series. :)
I found this book enjoyable.
It helps if you know a little about D&D, or at least have some decent fantasy concepts from gaming or other books.
The first book gives us an intro into the lives of multiple characters.
The dwarven brothers are a great source of fun.
I found myself pulling for them and the druids more than Cadderly our main hero.
Cadderly is bright and has an excellent memory.
However, he does not go about smiting foes or healing up his allies.
He is not your typical battle priest.
He is a priest of Deneir.
His main goal is the pursuit of knowledge.
One of the best fantasy books ever written. Period. It is absolutely fantastic fiction. It's complex, expanding and incredibly entertaining. I did'nt want it to end. One reason is because i never knew what would happen next. Another is due to it's ever expanding plot. It seemed like there was by the end 3 plots going all at once. It's truly a one of a kind book. I highly recommend it. It's one of the best fantasy books of all time. R.A Salvatore is a writer i've loved ever since this book was published. I give it a 10/10
This was the first novel of RA Salvatore's that I read as a teenager and it has always left an impression on me.
I hadn't expected much then (I had wanted a Drizzt book and got this for a birthday present instead) and had loved it.
I suppose that is the power of expectation.
I remember enjoying these novels more than his Drizzt novels and when I decided to reread I stupidly thought I would find the same novel I had back then.The power of expectation and maturity made me enjoy this novel a lot less than I first had all those years ago.
can tickle?Anyway, this was a breezy fantasy summer read from RA Salvatore. The book's saving grace is that much of the book was battle descriptions. The book's biggest weakness is that much of the book was battle descriptions.So, there was a bunch of fighting. The main character conveniently had just enough of the right supplies and luck to beat the bad guy in the end.A hero with a yo-yo. I wish that were original.Maybe I'm being too harsh on ol' Cadderly ... we'll see in the next book.
This is another Forgotten Realms d&d book. Salvatore can make fun action stories, but that is all they are. But, hey, that's what I am looking for here, and I got it. I liked Canticle, but this book is a little immature and I wouldn't recommend it, unless you are a Salvatore fan. Start with his other books if you are a first time reader.
The origins of the cleric Cadderly. A very fun and enjoyable fantasy tale that is rampant with danger and excitement. =)
This is R.A. Salvatore's first non-Drizzt Forgotten Realms book published, and it is a fun read.
The other heroes are equally light-hearted, for the most part; Danica the focused monk, Newander the depressed self-effacing druid, and the dwarf brother chefs Ivan and Pikel Bouldershoulder.
I must say, that the evil wizard Alabaster's name fails to roll off the tongue.
Salvatore writes some terrific action scenes for his chosen setting, rife with last-minute saves, underdog heroics, and on-the-verge-of-defeat comebacks.
It is not surprising that he is the most popular Forgotten Realms author.
Canticle is the first book in the series by author R.A. Salvatore.
The story follows a young priest named Cadderly, as he tries to contain a horrible cursed (aptly named The Most Fatal Horror) which has been unleashed on his library (and home).
Together they must battle hordes of the undead in the catacombs below the library in order to try to put an end to the curse..
But I do know that if I want a nice quick fantasy story, I tend to turn to this author.
I will see if the series gets better as it goes along..
I reference this because that episode came so early in the series's run that it wasn't easy to tell the degree to which the characters were affected.
We simply hadn't know them long enough to know their character, and as a result couldn't determine the abnormality of character.Similar issue here: we don't know the characters well enough to learn anything from the effect the curse has on them.
So while some of the monk touches are interesting, and it's cool that we've got a main character who isn't a fighter/warrior, I can't help but wonder if there's stuff about this little corner of the world that we're missing.
Cadderly for the winCadderly immediately became one of my favorites when Drrizt and friends made thier way to the Edificant library (I even named a WoW character after him).
Both live in the Edificant library a vast repository of learning for all goodly folk in the snowflake mountains and beyond.
The choas curse is secretly released inside the library forcing everyone who comes into contact with it to immediately gove yourself fully to your hearts desires for good or for bad.
Cadderly who is strangely unaffected feels responsible and sets out to stop the curse!
This is a nice start to a series. The main issue I had with Canticle was in Salvatore's battle scenes, which felt really drawn out and over-detailed. There's only so much battle description you can handle before you just gloss over the battle altogether. I think in one part he describes two people battling the same 3 ghouls for about 4 or 5 pages with little to no progression. This is just a tentative review of the standalone book seeing as how the full Cleric Quintet should probably be reviewed in its entirety.
Great book!Salvatore's written voice weaves a tight and neat literary tapestry.I read this book so long ago that I had forgotten almost everything about it except for the name. In the time since then, I have had D&D character with very similar names and mannerisms - One even had a white squirrel companion! - and I didn't even realize until I just re-read.I think it's safe to say that this story, (and it's author!) left a sharp impression, even on my subconscious creativity.
4-5 yıl oldu sanırım alalı ama saklanan kitaplardandı. Salvatore un 20 den fazla kitabını okuduktan sonra böyle her sene bir tane okumazsam eksik hissettiğimi anladım. Drizzti ya da Star Wars (: içermeyen bir tanesini okurken bile anında eski bir arkadaşla konuşuyormuşum gibi geçti bölümleri. Cadderly ve Danica yı da çok sevdim. Salvatore un sahne anlatışlarını da çok özlemişim. Evren için gayet sıradan bir hikaye ama fazlasıyla tatmin edici, kesin devam ederim/
Squirrelsband Nuts GalorePikel and Ivan are two of the characters I would dearly pay to see in real life. Every time they did the sizing up of Cadderly in the tunnels I was right there with them. The ghouls and zombies can stay in the graves and I loved the Iron Maiden's come uppance. Brilliant Salvatore & lots of asskicking in this installment of Dungeons and Dragons, Faerun.
Didn't end up finishing this one. Salvatore is a great writer, but his books can be hit or miss for me. I may try this one again when I'm feeling up for so much detail, as I have enjoyed his work in the past. But currently, I'm really in the mood for a book that will grab my attention in the first 5 chapters or so... This one didn't do that. Not a bad story at all, just slow to start and a lot of background detail. Maybe some other time. :)
