https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39774.Mockingbird_Wish_Me_Luck
Mockingbird Wish Me Luck, Charles Bukowski Mockingbird Wish Me Luck captures glimpses of Charles Bukowski's view on life through his poignant poetry: the pain, the hate, the love, and the beauty.
First Published 1972.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: شانزدهم ماه جولای سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: دعای خیر مرغ (پرنده ی) مقلد؛ سروده: چارلز بوکوفسکی؛ مترجم: مصطفی رضیئی؛ تهران، افراز، 1390؛ شابک: 9789642436538؛دعای خیر مرغ مقلد؛ مجموعه اشعار چارلز بوکوفسکی ست.
چارلز بوکوفسکی شاعر و نویسنده نامدار آمریکایی که اشعار و داستان‌های کوتاه او، تحولی شگرف در عرصه‌ ی ادبیات بین‌الملل و ادبیات کلاسیک معاصر، پدید آورد.
You no facesno facesat alllaughing at nothing-let me tell youI have drunk in skidrow rooms withimbecile winoswhose cause was betterwhose eyes still held some lightwhose voices retained some sensibility,and when the morning camewe were sick but not ill,poor but not deluded,and we stretched in our beds and rosein the late afternoonslike millionaires.
I met Bukowski at a San Pedro book store, he signed three of his books for me. He told me that I was the only one from East L.A. that came to see him that day. I paid for Fuck Machine and I never got it. May he RIP
This book contains the famous poem "the shoelace". . .it’s not the large things thatsend a man to themadhouse. death he’s ready for, ormurder, incest, robbery, fire, flood…no, it’s the continuing series of small tragediesthat send a man to themadhouse…not the death of his lovebut a shoelace that snapswith no time left. . .
To give Bukowski a "rating" seems more than a bit silly. To "review" one of his books seems even sillier. I love the guy. He is my literary pumice stone, scraping all the dead skin off my heals and endeavors. The moment I catch myself fretting over a thesaurus or a submission to some journal or prize, I grab one of his books and jab it like a needle into my vein, then wait for it to come all over me...
El poeta, a quien tantas veces se sorprende en la flagrancia de la paradoja, la palabra poética misma, son dispositivos por los que muestra cultura aunque quizás cada vez mas débilmente preserva la prodigalidad de lo otro irreductible como objeto de una experiencia compartida, es decir como misterio.
Favourites:3:16 and one half...4th of julythe shoelacemarina 4th of july it's amazingthe number of people who can't feelpain.put 40 in a roomsqueezed against each otherhours of lethargic talkand they don't faintscreamgo mad or evenwince..it appears as if they are waiting forsomething that will neverarrive.they are as comfortable as chickens orpigs in their pens.one might even consider it wisdomif you can overlook the facesand the conversation.when the 4th is overand they go back to their separat
Favourites:3:16 and one half...4th of julythe shoelacemarina
4th of july
it's amazingthe number of people who can't feelpain.put 40 in a roomsqueezed against each otherhours of lethargic talkand they don't faintscreamgo mad or evenwince..it appears as if they are waiting forsomething that will neverarrive.they are as comfortable as chickens orpigs in their pens.one might even consider it wisdomif you can overlook the facesand the conversation.when the 4th is overand they go back to their separate holeswhen the sun will kiss me hellowhen the sidewalks will look good again.back in their cagesthey'll dream of the next greatholiday.probably Labor Daysmashing together on the freewaystalking together40 in a room,cousins, aunts, sisters, mothers, brothers, uncles,sons, grandfathers, grandmothers, wives, husbands,lovers, friends, all the rest,40 in a roomtalking about nothing,talking about themselves.
I am not a big fan of poetry and in fact this is the first book of poems I have read in quite a few years.I really liked this book though as Bukowski's poems read like very short stories and observations.Bukowski was a well known people watcher and there is plenty of that in this book.
He has poems on things he has witnessed, anti-war poems, time in prison and moving poems about his daughter.
Of course there are also poems on the many women he has loved.My favourite poem was "the shoelace" a long list of things that will push you towards madness.
After being left a bit bored of Bukowski since last reading Factotum, this has rejuvenated my enjoyment for his works. Really bizarre, hilarious, earnest and raw poems throughout.
The poems in the latter part of the volume begin to take a more positive, mellower tone, as Bukowski writes of his love for his wife and for his young daughter.Besides "Mockingbird," the poems I enjoyed in this volume include "the last days of the suicide kid", Bukowski's reflections on growing old, "My friend William", a story of a friend who seemingly had attained success in his career and in his marriage, "consummation of grief", in which Bukowski writes that "I was born to hustle roses down the avenue of the dead", the poem "he wrote in lonely blood", Bukowski's tribute to his fellow California poet Robinson Jeffers, "a sound in the brush", a story of a casualty of war, "american matador", on the theme of sex and death, and, on, one of Bukowski's preoccupations, "I saw an old-fashioned whore today".The poems I have mentioned show the qualities of Bukowski, the toughness and grit, that will be familiar to most of his readers.
It reads like a typewritten manuscript that needs various amendments to fully work as publishable content.
It's in these pieces and in many others that his writing exudes a mimetic quality that allows the reader to fully experience him, it never feels distant or ever obsolescent.
All of which are expressed here in this relatively poignant and simplistic parallel universe that is now the institutionalized bukowski mythos, that is as much a piece of poetry as his actual writing was.
As with most of Bukowski's books, this is a mix of good and bad poems.
However, overall, the above poems make this book well worth reading and as is the case with all of Buk's books, you can read them in an afternoon.Buk's bravado and brashness always make me feel better after a long day at work, after too much bullshit, that we have to put up with....every...damn...day.
Thank you Buk. Your poems bounce right off the street and give succour to the dispossessed, the sad, the lonely, the losers and everyone else struggling to make sense of this world....
I mean, I'm a Bukowski fan, but I rate all his books at 4 stars, even when he is my favorite writer.
So, this book is about Bukowski, his poetry, his life, his girls, his drunkness.
And that's the main reason he is my favorite writer.
I read a lot of books, sci-fi, realism, non-fiction,and most of them are good stories.
I feel really close to him in some many ways, while in others I feel so distant, but, the kind of intimacy that I get when I read him, I didn't found it with another writer.Bukowski is not for the clean asses rich boys of mom and daddy.
A better collection of Bukowski poems.
My favorites were "Power Failure," "The Shower," and "The Shoelace." I didn't have much respect for Bukowski when I was younger until I came across "The Smoking Car" which is in this collection.
The poem doesn't shine as bright to me today as it did fifteen years ago, but its still good.
Others I liked: "The Garbageman," "The Last Days of The Suicide Kid," "Somebody," "Story and Poem," "My Friend William," "Lifting Weights at 2am," "The Mockingbird," "American Matador," "Short Order," "This Is The Way It Goes and Goes and Goes," "2 Carnations," "Man and Woman in Bed at 10pm," and "Style."
This is one of my favorite book of poems by Bukowski. Some people don't like it because they view him as a misogynist, but he can be seen that way in virtually every book, so I don't know why people would pick on this book. This has some special poems, one of which -- "Bluebird" -- is a personal favorite. These poems bridge the gap, for me, between his earlier far out stuff and his later self absorbed stuff. There's a nice mixture here and I think the book reads well.
Have read a bunch of Bukowski's short stories and novels (90% of them prob.) and while I do enjoy his prose, I'm really into his poetry. This is my the collection of his I've checked out. Solid stuff. There's plenty of wonder and elevation here beside the usual negativity, horse track excursions, whores and drinking. A great collection of poetry published around the time Post Office dropped. My favorite poems off the top of my head were "the smoking car" and "power failure"
I'd prefer to give 3 2/3 stars. This collection is the weakest of Bukowski's that I have read so far, yet it contains some truly special lines. Hence the 4 stars, instead of the 3. It is true that his alcoholic misogynistic self makes more than the occasional visit, but this is what you're in for when you read Mr. B. To expect anything less would be practically an insult to his legacy.
When I was a kid there was this Modest Mouse track called "Bukowski" and it had this chorus that was based around a line about Bukowski being a massive asshole. I had no clue who Bukowski was (I was, like, 5 or 6) and just assumed Bukowski was some dude the guys in the band knew. Well, they weren't wrong: Bukowski is indeed an asshole.
déšťsymfonický orchestr,je bouřka,hraje se předehra od Wagnera,a lidé opouštějí sedadla pod stromya utíkají pod plátěnou střechuženy se chichotají, muži předstírají klid,odhazují mokré cigarety,Wagner hraje dál, a pak jsou všichni podstřechou.
2 od Liszta, a pořád prší, ale podívejte,v dešti sedí osamocený mužposlouchá.
orchestr si hledísvého.
doufámže ano.str.74---rádiodivné oči v mojí hlavějsem zbabělec a blázen a šašeka poslouchám muže, který mi říká, že můžu dostatprůvodce restauracemi a rozrůstající se kalendářkulturních akcídneska jsem někde mimonechci restaurace ani rozšiřující se kulturní akcechci starou boudu v horáchbez nutnosti platit nájems dostatkem jídla a pití až do mojí smrtidivné oči v mojí hlavědivné způsobyžádná nadějestr.

This isn’t Charles Bukowski’s strongest book, but it’s still a cracking collection of his poetry, and he does his usual inimitable job of using simple language to evoke complex feelings within the reader.Usually when I read Bukowski, I’m left with a half-dozen poems which stood out above all of the others; this time, there’s just the one poem, a World War II epic which almost verges on prose.
And what’s interesting about it is that it’s set wholly in America, and focuses more on the draft than on the war itself.Overall, if you’re new to Bukowski then I wouldn’t suggest starting with this one, because it isn’t his best.
After all, it’s still a pretty good book!
As is often the case with Bukowski, one must trudge through the myriad of uninspired anecdotal accounts disguised as poetry through the force of unorthodox formatting and grammar, to find the few gems that make his books actually worth reading.
A case can be made in favor of his prolificity, especially as an example to less confident aspiring writers, that so much mediocrity may be swept into publishing by the sheer torrential force of a few strokes of gushing genius.
However it may just be the case that, in such an amalgam of things thrown together, there is at least one poem in this book for everyone.
I really enjoyed this collection.
Bukowski's poetry may not be lyrically genious but has such a strange feeling to it that it is hard to walk away from.
His poetry takes the world of darkness he saw outside his window and within himself, and turns it into a beutifal struggle of someone unnapologitically being discontent with everything but still trying to find some type of redemption or beauty.
The poem "Bluebird" really inspired me and I think really gives the reader an idea of Bukowski's personal struggle."there's a bluebird in my heart that wants to get out but I'm too tough for him, I say, stay in there, I'm not going to let anybody see you."
After many months' immersion in mostly dense prose, I was exhilarated to read Bukowski's straightforward poems.
War, women, gambling, drinking, looking out the window, and reading and writing are rich subjects for him.
I had read his novels, but only one other book of poems, so this merrily fell my way to remind me how much more territory I have to explore with Buk.chilled greenwhat is it?an old woman, fat, yellow dress,torn stockingssitting on the curbingwith a little boy.98 degrees at 3 in the afternoonit seemsobscene.but look, they are calm,almost happy,they eat the green jelloand the red roses shine.
I have been reading Bukowski for years, but this is the first book of poetry I've read from him. Some poems were bittersweet, others harsh and grating. I liked the book, although, not being an avid poetry reader, can't say if it was good or bad. Simply, I liked it and there were some good insights into life and writing.***Buk has inspired me to read more poetry and write it as well. This book was better the second time around. (I'm reading all of Buk's books by publication date. I'm almost done with my collection.)
There are better poetry books by Bukowski, yes, but this was still awesome. I'm a little disappointed there weren't any poems about his cats, and he went a little lax on the horse track poems. I'll definitely read this again in the future.
I dig Bukowski's early poetry, it had more moxie.
هر بوسه امیدیست به بازگشت به اولین بوسه.
It is all as cordial as a bonbon

