https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110604.A_Baby_Sister_for_Frances
She was a furry badger, but she and I had some things in common.
I couldn't sleep when there was the possibility of a giant, frightening thing crawling out of the crack in the ceiling, either.
My mother was great at reading aloud and singing all of Frances' songs, too.
I have trouble singing Frances' songs, because I'm never sure how the tunes are supposed to go.
It drives me nuts.That aside, the Frances books remain some of my all-time favorites.
Frances' parents are interminably patient.
She is is the kind of child who engenders lots of >>winkwink, nudgenudge<< moments from her parents, I'd say.
Oddly enough I had never discovered this Frances book before, so it was a delight to come across this particular story at the library.Here Frances is having a tough time adjusting to a new baby in the house.
I like that she ran away from home under the dining room table (I ran away there once as a child.
And in the end, she comes home because she's the one that chooses to, as it should be.This is storytelling that is extremely honest and poignant and beautiful.
Again, Russell Hoban has captured life so perfectly, in a story that has again, held up through the ages.
I bought this book as a present for my older daughter (astute readers of my reviews will immediately intuit that a BLESSED EVENT has occurred; my younger daughter is almost two months old now and is doing great).Aside from a disconcerting gap in continuity (I truly thought I had bought a misprinted version with a page missing; it was only after comparing my daughter's book with other versions in the library did I realize that I bought the book the author intended), this was a wonderful book, almost as good as Bread and Jam for Frances, also by Russell Hoban.
Frances and Gloria are a part of our family culture.
A cute book. Would be a good gift for a child who is soon to be a big brother or big sister.
Heartwarming <3
Another of my all time favorite children's books, and one that I like to give to people who are having a second baby. A clever story about Frances' reaction to a new baby in the house. My favorite scene is where she "runs away" to under the table and her parents have a pretend conversation about missing her while she is gone. I also love the way her parents confront the issue with love and understanding.
I have always loved the Frances books! This one is such a sweet and thoughtful look at how the older sibling might feel about a new baby.
Frances needs a raise because she now has to be a big sister.
She is running away.And the way, she announces it...oh, try to not laugh mirthfully (especially if you have ever been the mother to an older child)!"Well," said Frances, "things are not very good around here anymore.
Mother and Father are so perfectly wise and intuitive about the needs of their eldest, and so they loudly discuss how much they miss Frances, how much Gloria depends on her big sister, how they miss her songs, what a family is.
This book is about the struggles of being an older sibling. A young girl has recently become a big sister and is upset about the amount of attention she is receiving from her parents. She assumes that striking out on her own is the best option and shirks any responsibility to her family. While “away” from her family she begins to realize that she does have great responsibility as an older sister and more importantly as a daughter.  I recommend this fiction book for early elementary school studen
This book is about the struggles of being an older sibling.
A young girl has recently become a big sister and is upset about the amount of attention she is receiving from her parents.
While “away” from her family she begins to realize that she does have great responsibility as an older sister and more importantly as a daughter.
This would be a great way to broach the subject of what it takes to be an older sibling or part of a growing family.
The Wow moment I got from this book is that even if you are upset about circumstances, we are still to be held responsible for our actions and jobs.
For a child who can sit still for a bit, as there are a good number of words on each page....Cute story about Frances who feels a bit neglected (her favorite dress isn't ironed and they're out of raisins) now that her mother is so busy with new baby sister Gloria.Frances runs away to under the dining table.Her parents have a great discussion about how family means everyone together, how much they miss Frances, and the things about her that they like.
Another fun book in the Frances series. This one is ideal for kids with siblings! Frances is fed up with the change in her house with the arrival of her new baby sister. She decides to run away - to under the dining room table. Beautifully illustrated and lovely story.
Frances' parents play along to let Frances know she is still loved and wanted even when parents are busy with a new baby.
Man, I'm so glad the Frances books exist. This is absolutely, absolutely sublime. Second only to A BARGAIN FOR FRANCES, which is a big masterpiece.
"Well," said Frances. "Things are not very good around here anymore."
good
Frances doesn't much care for the way things are going now that baby sister Gloria is around, so she decides it's a good idea to run away (but not very far).
It's easy enough to trim for bedtime reading but I feel like a little editing would have been a good idea.
I also expected this to be more about Frances and her sister, like preparation for and actually interacting with a new baby but Gloria doesn't really play much of a role.
She was singing a little song: Plinketty, plinketty, plinketty, plink, Here is the dishrag that's under the sink.
Premise/plot: Frances is having a hard time adjusting to her new baby sister, Gloria.
"Well," said Frances, "it is time to say goodbye.
Good bye.""Where are you running away to?" said Father."I think that under the dining-room table is the best place," said Frances.
"It's cozy and the kitchen is near if I run out of cookies.""That is a good place to run away to," said Mother, "but I'll miss you.""I'll miss you too," said Father."Well, said Frances, "good-bye," and she ran away.
This is a lovely book about a young badger called Frances who becomes jealous of the attention her parents are giving her new baby sister that she decides to run away.
While she is here her parents talk about how they will miss Frances, and how her baby sister will be lost without her big sister in her life.
All the while Frances is overhearing and she realises she should return home as the baby needs her big sister.
By reading this story it could help show children that there are more ways at looking at a situation and it is not all about me.
While I did not remember the story, the illustrations of Frances are special from my childhood memories.
Also there are more words here than you seem to find in more recent new sibling stories so this gives it the cuddle worthy reading quality.
Level 2 edition of this book to our library shelves after a splurge on most of the Frances I Can Read!
I do prefer the smaller text size as to the book alone or treasury, but I think that the big text in the I Can Read!
A charming story about a sassy little badger who decides that since her baby sister arrived, things around the house have gone downhill--so she might as well just run away and live under the kitchen table (close to the pantry in case she runs out of food, of course).
This book has easy language with a lot of text per page, making it appropriate for early elementary readers.Summary from SPL: "When things change around the house after her baby sister is born, Frances decides to run away--but not too far."First published in 1964; no reviews found.
This book provides a lot of perspectives, which is really nice for the learning child.
It allows children to learn that not everything revolves around them all of the time, especially when there is a new child to take care of.
However, this book does a nice job showing that just because a new child has entered the family, it does not change the fact that they are loved.
This is a book I would like to share with my class as a teacher if I am teaching younger students, because this book not only works if a new child has entered the family, but also in regards to sharing and showing that other children also have to be cared for in the classroom.
The Frances books by Russell Hoban have to be my all time favorite children's books and A Baby Sister for Frances is, in my opinion, the best out of the books, maybe I could just relate since I have nine younger brothers and sisters.
This is a wonderful book for any child transitioning from being an only child to being a big brother or sister.
This book is very similar to the previous Frances book I reviewed, both in tone and art, so it's a safe bet to guess that I like this book too.
The art is nearly identical except that the accent colors in this book are pink and yellow as opposed to purple and green.
This is another "getting used to a new sibling" book.
I like this because it is exactly the sort of strange and slightly inappropriate kind of toy that I had as a child (tin full of buttons anyone?).
I LOVE the Frances books!
This particular book is about Frances not feeling very loved at home because her baby sister Gloria seems to get all the attention.
She decides to run away, and instead of Mother and Father debating with her, they simply ask to where she is running.
Going under the kitchen table, Frances hears Mother and Father discussing how much they miss her, and she returns.
This is such a sweet book that will make children feel special and reminds parents to let their children know how much they are loved and let them be children.
"'Well,' said Frances, 'things are not very good around here anymore.
I think maybe I'll run away.''Finish your breakfast,' said Mother.'What time will dinner be tonight?' said Frances.'Half past six,' said Mother.'Then I will have time to run away after dinner,' said Frances...'"A great book in the Frances series!
Frances is jealous of her new baby sister and how much of their parent's time she is occupying.
She decides to "run away" to under the dining room table to prove a point.
As always, this story features great dialogue and awesome songs made up by Frances.
"'Hello,' called Frances from the dining room.
'I am calling on the telephone.
Frances the badger is dealing with feeling like her Mama doesn't have time for her after her sister Gloria is born.
She doesn't have her favorite breakfast because Mama hasn't went to the store.
She can't wear her favorite dress 'cause Mama hasn't washed it.
So she wants to 'run away' (which is to the kitchen under the table) Mama and Pappa talk about missing Frances and how good of a big sister she is etc.
Frances then realizes that the family is a family with all of them.
Frances is also a very adventurous little girl making up songs that she sings for situations she's in.
Frances is just a little bit miffed at her Mom because the new baby is taking all of Mom's time away from her.
Mom didn't iron her favorite dress for school and she didn't go to the store to pick up more raisins for Frances' oatmeal.What will Frances do?
She is planning on running away.This story reminded me of the time when I was five, I ran away because my baby brothers was getting all of Mommy's attention.
I didn't get far - just down the street a little before I went running home.Frances doesn't get far either but the way the parents cope with her leaving is one to remember.
This is a charming story of a young Frances learning her role in the family.
Being a new big sister, which is a topic some students will be sure to relate to, she has to learn how the family is changing.
Although her mom is too busy to remember to iron her clothes or buy more raisins, she still cares for Frances very much and would miss if she was gone.
The concept of running away, is one that young readers may relate to and this story does a good job of rationalizing why it is not such a good idea.
The illustrations are simple, but compliment the story well.
My two year old sat quietly and humored me as I went all nostalgic reading a Frances book.
It was definitely over his head, but he did enjoy the little songs almost as much I did growing up.
Now that I'm older I can see that I enjoyed her so much because I identified with her and all the little struggles she went through with bedtime, siblings, friends, and food.
But when I first read this book in particular, I remember just loving the idea of a world where my parents made me a chocolate cake after I ran away ;-).
