https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95784.The_Rape_of_Nanking
Gripping--As a Japanese, it pisses me off how history turned out for the Class A war criminals who never got reprimanded or punished after the war, and it pisses me off all the more for the government's steady and FUCKED-UP denial of its past war crimes.
Fuck you all war criminals.Putting aside my personal sentiments, the book is a gripping tale of the atrocities committed by the Japanese army in Nanking, and it is truly horrifying.
I'd really like to kill them.Again putting aside my personal sentiments, it's a book definitely worth reading.
* Any comments regarding politics will be dealt with. Flagged, blocked, accompanied by one of my endlessly innovative insults. Take your political opinions elsewhere, the few of you who think this is bloody Facebook. I'm not interested. ”Almost all people have this potential for evil, which would be unleashed only under certain dangerous social circumstances.” A beloved European friend, who’s currently living in Changzhou, has been pestering me to read this book for months. I was unwilling. Of c
However, I thought that maybe the time had finally come and I ventured…What kind of review can I possibly write now?
There are times that I feel my words lose all meaning…The book chronicles the atrocities committed by the Japanese invaders after the fall of the city on 13/12/1937.
It is impossible to enclose and communicate the feelings caused in me while I was reading Chang’s book.
This is about the sheer brutality that lives in every human being, waiting for a chance to come forth and attack and the natural tendencies exploited by those in power all over the world, throughout the course of History.
Ahmadinejad denying the Holocaust is a joke compared to Japanese officials and academics denying the Rape of Nanking.This book is also a must read for anyone who believes that these kinds of brutal happenings are anomalies for as Chang points out in the epilogue, "The Rape of Nanking should be perceived as a cautionary tale...." She goes on to say that human beings are capable of the worst kind of inhuman behavior if the circumstances are right.
Or, as Jaidee says “we suck as a species!” In December 1937 Japanese troops advanced from Shanghai to Nanjing.
It's like there's a template or step-by-step guide that gets followed.Chang’s research found the diary of John Rabe which provides an improbable ray of hope in all the atrocious horror.The Nazi Who Saved NankingPerhaps the most fascinating character to emerge from the history of the Rape of Nanking is the German businessman John Rabe.
But to the Japanese, Rabe was a strange and unlikely savior.
For he was not only a German national—a citizen of the Nazi Party in Nanking.
I have been vaguely aware of this terrible time in histroy but have never read anything about it and when I discussed this book with my work colleagues not one of them had heard of the Rape of Nanking or read or seen any documentaries related to this massacare which in itself is pretty shocking as this was a Holocaust which the world seems to have conveniently forgotten or swept under the carpet.This is a DIFFICULT read as the descriptions of the atrocities are very very graphic but thankfully for me I only had to read about it and not endure it or witness it therefore the nightmares I experienced after reading passages in this book are nothing compared to what Chinese people still seeking justice must experience when they read a book like this and think how their ancestors met their fate.An extremely well written and researced book and the author uses sources such as diaries, government documents, newspapers reports and interview with survivors.
Chang had spent considerable time and energy researching the book, hoping that her work could bring attention to a horrific time that seemed to somehow have been lost in the history books – a winter and spring of unimaginable horror in 1937 and 1938 following the Japanese capture and occupation of the Chinese city of Nanking.“As the Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel warned years ago, to forget a holocaust is to kill twice.”Negative critical remarks ranged from condescending dismissals of her historic narrative and research methods and her conclusions to outright denials and accusations of fabrication.
A recent news item about how Japan is doing its utmost to hang on to its xenophobia - http://www.nytimes.com/2011/01/03/wor...Book quotes:p 217Some Japanese scholars believe that the horrors of the Rape of Nanking and other outrages of the Sino-Japanese war were caused by a phenomenon called the "transfer of oppression." According to Tanaka Yuki, author of Hidden Horrors: Japanese War Crimes in World War II, the modern Japanese Army had great potential for brutality from the moment of its creation for two reasons: the arbitrary and cruel treatment that the military inflicted on its own officers and soldiers, and the hierarchical nature of Japanese society, in which status was dictated by proximity to the Emperor.
Or, rather, is it still fashionable to bleat and moan about "freedom of speech" without mention of the First Amendment Zones in Ferguson, the labeling of protesters as looters and militants by mass media, this particular gem of a post, and so many other violations of the right to speak that aren't saturated enough with European imperialism to merit the world's attention?
If it is possible to become a "legal state" through centuries of genocide and enslavement that are reinforced to this day via military industrial complex, what does that mean for our "legal" right to freedom of speech?Japan at the time of the Rape of Nanking was a legal state, so apparently Chang was wrong in calling their actions "terrorism".
People of Nanking didn’t tick most of these items and so their mass-murders and mass-rape were ignored by the world, ignored not as in they didn’t make it to newspapers, Japanese, in their arrogance, made sure that the mass murders make the news "on their way to the capital, Japanese soldiers were made to participate in killing competitions, which were avidly covered by the Japanese media like sporting events.
ETA: There is much more in this book than the simple listing of atrocities committed. How came it to be that the Japanese soldiers lost all natural sense of right and wrong? Why did the world look away? Why has punishment never been allotted? What can be done to prevent this from happening again? All of these questions are addressed in the book. (Michael, I am adding this for you.)****************  EVERYBODY should read this book.  Yes, that means YOU. I am annoyed:at myself. I have had this on
EVERYBODY should read this book.
Then I convinced myself that since I DO acknowledge the massacre, it really wasn't necessary to read the horrible details of it.at those reviewers that make statements refuting the book's value.
Without first reading the book you cannot make any judgment of the figures used.
Look, there is absolutely no legitimate reason, no valid excuse to convince yourself to not read this book.
Don't tell me you do not have the time to read this book.
How many holocaust books have your read?
I am asking you to read this one book.
Rape of Nanking is mainly discussing TWO injustice set of actions by Japanese officials to Nanking population (including some foreigners.
This book discuss some Westerners that saved many lives, and of course regarding Nanking massacre it is unavoidable to mention International Committee for the Nanking Safety Zone).
And you don't have to stop with this book in this internet era, at least you could check other sources regarding the incident.The SECOND injustice is the attempts to cover-up the incident in history lessons, general people awareness, etc.
Until the book had published, Japanese government still don't commit to fulfill official admittance about massacre.
I don’t blame her that none stand out as definitive, yet a 1998 review of her book by Stanford professor David Kennedy in “The Atlantic” (The Horror) takes her to task in this regard: But if this improbable tale reminds us of the enigmas of good and evil and the infinite mysteries of the human personality, Chang does not bring an analogous sense of complexity to her effort to explain why the Rape of Nanking happened at all.
The people killed by the Japanese were at least 300,000 may have been twice that. The author has passed on, but there is a recorded CSPAN interview of her talking about her book. See booktv.org
I find it interesting and fascinating, and am interested in WWII stories more than many other eras, simply because it was just such an active point in our (relatively) recent history, and there was just so much horrific shit going on.
And what makes it so insanely atrocious is that so much of the brutality and depravity that occurred in Nanking and is related in this book was done in such up-close-and-personal ways.
This book attempts to explain the Japanese mindset that allowed this kind of thing to happen, and while I can't find it in me to ever condone this kind of depravity and cruelty, I think that the explanation given makes a lot of sense.
the numbers she uses are subject to debate, even the title of her book is subject to question (it's called the "massacre at nanjing" in china, and the "nanjing incident" in japan).
it's sensationalistic, and based mostly on oral history - chang is not fluent in any form in japanese, therefore, all her first account materials had to be sifted through another source.
(the japanese are not as reactionary as chang claims, though japan's "textbook wars" have become pretty famous in history circles.)
When we think of WWII and the atrocities that occurred, the genocide of the European Jewish population immediately comes to mind, but as the sub-title of this book indicates, there is a forgotten holocaust that has received little to no attention.
Known as the Rape of Nanking, the civilian death toll (300,00 is the estimated number) exceeded that in some European countries during the entire war.
The author divides the book into three perspectives: that of the Japanese soldiers, the Chinese who suffered through it, and the Europeans/Americans who remained in Nanking and offered protection to the Chinese civilians.
This forgotten holocaust should not be a footnote to history.
Chang notes the Rape of Nanking and other war time atrocities committed by the Japanese were not (at the time of writing) acknowledged widely in Japanese society, and still to this day are denied by Nationalist politicians in Japan, or dampened by apologists.Chang's book details the Nanking (Nanjing in modern China) massacre from its beginnings.
It makes the book slightly difficult to believe, in some instances, and this is all the more frustrating due to the still controversial nature of the topic of the Rape of Nanking and Japanese war atrocities in general.
Just try to picture the most horrid, awful, and brutal in humanity ever since you learned about the German Holocaust, and you will only touch the tip of the iceberg in discovering the events of Nanking.
Utterly sad, moving, and poignant, Miss Chang has written a book that should be required reading for all since he we do not learn from these heinous happenings, we will let them happen again and again.
“You are left with a feeling of rage, because unlike other horrors, there is little mention of this in history books and the Japanese themselves have never asked for forgiveness or even acknowledge what they did.” (BEVERLY - Goodreads)I agree whole-heartely with you, Beverly.This is a first-rate book, and without doubt the best account of that sad, disgusting and tragic episode.Last but not least, this book reminds me a brief dialogue from the movie “Runaway Train” (1985 – directed by Andrey Konchalovskiy.
The screenplay was rewritten in english by Konchalovskiy, Edward Bunker, Paul Zindel and Djordje Milisevic):-	SARA (tearfully) (Rebecca de Mornay) : “You’re an animal!”-	MANNY (Jon Voight): “No, worst!
Human.
Human!”I rest my case.
Brutally shocking and disturbing, The Rape of Nanking is one of few books to accurately describe a horrific event of the past which many westerners don't know about. It's a very sad and terrifying story, but definitely worth it.
I remember smiling proudly as I took his sword and began killing people." (59)The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II by Iris Chang is one of those books that is a must read and deserves equal attention to that of the atrocities given by the Third Reich during the Holocaust to the Jewish communities.
The fact that the swastika was used in humanitarian endeavours is something so unbelievably mystifying you'd think it was straight out of the twight-light zone.Despite a few errors, Chang's The Rape of Nanking is a book that ranks high on must reads.
This book made me feel ashamed to be human.
I don’t know how to rightly talk about any of these things but I’m going to try and add my two cents here anyway.The Rape of Nanking shares the history of Nanking during the occupation of the Japanese Imperial Army in the midst of WWII.
The Japanese drew sadistic pleasure in forcing Chinese men to commit incest—fathers to rape their own daughters, brothers their sisters, sons their mothers.
Although I am aware that there remains a small but worrying denial culture in Japan over this event, what’s more concerning for me are the people who participated in it and actually got away with it.
Not the most systematic history, but instead a frightening compilation of memories. There are a few nagging stylistic or minor technical errors, but this should not detract from the sheer scale of this atrocity, and Chang's remarkable effort in bringing it to light in Western scholarship.
The pathetic information I have stored about World War II consists of 1) German Nazis killed millions of people.
2) Stalin killed millions of people.
Instead what the Japanese did was kill almost every Chinese man they saw and rape every woman between the ages of 9 and 80.
Other men were rounded up and buried alive or used for training new soldiers how to use a bayonet or harden them to kill.
The Japanese took photographs of smiling soldiers happily committing acts of violence.What I found almost more shocking was that the Japanese government for decades denied not just responsibility for the rapes and murders but that they ever happened in the first place.
This was devastating, absolutely tragic. What the Chinese and POWs went through during WWII by the hands of the Japanese is worse than the Nazi regime terror. I can't talk about this.
I feel like it gave a very well rounded description of the atrocities that happened and provided excerpts from actual letters that were written during the time.
It also did a wonderful job in not degrading the Japanese and gave actual information and explanations on how this event could have happened and the factors leading up to it.
Some people say it was in part due to the research she did for this book, however that is just a theory and some of the people closest to her, like her husband, do not believe that was the cause.Overall, I would recommend this to anyone who wants to broaden their knowledge on important events in history or anyone who likes learning/reading about the wars.
I have read many books concerning the atrocities committed by mankind against his fellow mankind, most notably, the Jewish holocaust and the attempted annihilation of the American Indians.
But I do not think I have ever read of an event as horrible as the massacre of the Chinese at the hands of the Japanese.
Americans, Germans and many other nations who have committed war crimes have all apologized and even made attempts at reparations to the people who they made suffer.
If a higher life form does discover us and looks into our history, they're liable to just look at us as a virus and annihilate us without so much as a 'greetings Earth-man'.
What followed was a massacre of defenceless POWs and civilians, projected at 300,000 to 400,000 though no one will ever know the true numbers.This slim book is an expose of an often overlooked war crime, and one for which many of the perpetrators got off scot free.
It also covers the partial reckoning for the crime and explains how governments colluded to protect key commanders.
Finally it skewers the Japanese authorities for not recognising to this day the misdeeds and atrocities carried out by its armies.
Due to the nature of this book, I decided first not to demean its contents and the events of history with a rating.I think it is first important to establish that the events that took place in Nanking during the invasion and its occupation did happen to horrific degrees.
As such, I would say that for a casual reader, it would be a recommended read if you wished to learn about the massacre.
In the end, both books seek, in their own right, to reveal the atrocities that took place during the Nanking Massacre and the reality of subsequent years since.
