https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56728.You_Are_Special
One of my high school teachers gave this to me when she was leaving to go to another high school.
I was the girl who always was quiet so I had a teacher or two tell me that I wasn't going to get very far.
But there were a few in the 11th and 12th grade who convinced me that I was more than my shyness.
This book reminds me of that time and how far I've gotten since then from only saying 1 word a year to not being afraid of strangers.
It always convinces me again that I am special.
I opened it and read it and found myself within the pages of the book.You Are Special is the story of wooden people called the Wemmicks.
One day Punchinello met a Wemmick who had no stars or dots on her, and he becomes friends with her.
She takes Punchinello to the woodcarver who tells him how special he is - and is not determined on the stars and dots or how he performs or fails.
This book showed me that other people's opinions do not determine how special I am - what God thinks of me does.
A small book with a 'simple' message....Lessons Learnt:1. Let not the opinions of others make you a prisoner. You are special.2. Do not judge the other. Each one is special.3. Value yourself and the others just for what you and they are.
This is one that does it through a spiritual message, emphasizing that we are special because of how our Maker sees us, rather than because of self-generated esteem or the esteem of others.
In fact, it suggests that greater self-esteem comes when we let neither the criticisms nor the compliments of others stick, and instead look to our creator for our perspective on our worth.
In my personal philosophy, I deemphasize the notion of "self-esteem" and instead prefer what I call "Christ-esteem"--having a sense of self-worth that is based on how the Savior sees us.
I appreciate Lucado's story for teaching this message.
This book still makes me cry, even though I have read it a million times. Whenever I feel alone or distant from God or unworthy to be called his child, this is the book I turn to. I don't know how many copies of this book I have given away as presents, none to children.
کتاب کاملا نمادین نوشته شده، آدمک های چوبی (که در این داستان وِمی کی نامیده شده اند) که یک سازنده دارند که انسان است و در شهر آن ها فقط کسانی که زیبا یا باهوش هستند یا مهارت های مختلف دارند محبوب دیگران واقع می شوند و از جانب بقیه ستاره به عنوان تایید دریافت می کنند.
این کتاب می گوید که هیچ اهمیتی ندارد که دیگران چه فکری می کنند وقتی که اعمال ما مورد تایید خالق ماست و خالق ما حداقل از نظر من سخت گیر نیست...
ما بی چشم برهمزدنی میخکوب صندلیهامان شدیم تا کتاب تمام شود؛ من و بچهها. همهی بیستویکیمان. و همهی روزهای بعد از آن بارها به کتاب فکر کردهام و...(خب اشکم آمده!)شاید این کتاب برای سالهای اول دبستان، کمی ثقیل به نظر برسد. اما قول میدهم اگر آن را در زمان مناسبی خودتان برایشان بخوانید و لحن مناسب به آن بدهید و پیشزمینههای آن را به کودک بدهید(خیلی کتابها برای کودکان نیاز به ایجاد پیشزمینه دارند؛ از روزها قبل)، بچهها خوشایندترین حس را از کتاب خواهند داشت.کتاب، ترجمهی «منا خاطری» نازنین است و سال ۸۹ نشر
و همه‌ی روزهای بعد از آن بارها به کتاب فکر کرده‌ام و...(خب اشکم آمده!)شاید این کتاب برای سالهای اول دبستان، کمی ثقیل به نظر برسد.
اما قول میدهم اگر آن را در زمان مناسبی خودتان برایشان بخوانید و لحن مناسب به آن بدهید و پیش‌زمینه‌های آن را به کودک بدهید(خیلی کتابها برای کودکان نیاز به ایجاد پیش‌زمینه دارند؛ از روزها قبل)، بچه‌ها خوشایندترین حس را از کتاب خواهند داشت.کتاب، ترجمه‌ی «منا خاطری» نازنین است و سال ۸۹ نشر «من و کیمیا»-واحد کودک و نوجوان نشر نواندیش- آن را منتشر کرده.
عنوان ترجمه شده‌ی کتاب هست: تو برای من بهترینیگویا دیگر چاپ نمیشود...
یک داستان خیلی کوتاه و زیبا برای ۷ تا ۷۷ ساله ها درباره ی قضاوت!•••پانچلو ناباورانه خندید و گفت: ”من برای شما مهم هستم؟ چرا؟ من که نمی توانم تند بدوم و بپرم، رنگ های بدنم پوسته پوسته شده اند و زیبا نیستند. چرا من برای شما مهم هستم؟”ایلای به پانچلو نگاه کرد، دستش را روی شانه های چوبی او گذاشت و آهسته گفت: ”تو برای من مهم هستی، زیرا مال منی.” تا آن زمان هیچ کس این گونه با مهربانی و عشق به پانچلو نگاه نکرده بود...
The message of the story can speak to both adults and children alike and is definitely one of my favourites.The Wemmicks are small wooden people who every day give each other stickers.
The good looking or talented Wemmicks receive gold stars while those whose wood is rough or chipped or who can't do much get grey dots.
Punchinello always tried to get gold stars but always seemed to fall and mess up and ended up covered in dots.
Looking forward to introducing this one to my nephews as well.
“You Are Special” is a truly unique children’s book written by Max Lucado along with illustrations by Sergio Martinez that many children and adults will enjoy for the heartwarming message about being yourself.Once upon a time, there was a little village where wooden people called the Wemmicks lived at and they were all created by a wood worker named Eli. One of the main activities that the Wemmicks participated in was putting on golden stars and gray dots on each other.
One unfortunate wooden person named Punchinello was the one who was always getting gray dots due to him not being able to do any fantastic stunts and not having smooth wood and fine paint on himself.
'He's not a good wooden person,' the others would say and it ends up with him thinking of himself, 'I'm not a good Wemmick.'One day Punchinello meets Lucia, a Wemmick unlike the others for she has no stars and no dots on her at all.
The more you trust my love, the less you care about their stickers.' Punchinello is once again bemused so Eli tells him that he should visit his maker every day and he will remind him how much he loves him and that will help him to disregard the stickers that the other Wemmicks attempt to put on him.Punchinello leaves contemplating, 'I think he really means it' at which point a dot fell to the ground.
You are special tells the story of Eli, the woodcarver, and the society of wooden people he creates called, Wemmicks.
Wemmicks spend their days placing stickers on one another as a way of expressing their feelings: those who were appreciated received yellow "stars", those who were not would get gray "dots".
Having Eli feel that he is special makes Punchinello forget about what the other Wemmicks think of him, and one of his dots falls off.To me, Eli represents the people who love us no matter what, like our parents (or HaShem), and the Wemmicks ridiculous system of scoring people with starts and dots represent how wrong it is to stereotype people without getting to know them.
The main idea of the story is to show children that they are wonderful, special individuals...
In this Religion genre text Eli, the woodcarver, represents the creator of man and teaches Punchinello that He loves him because of his differences.
I also believe that students of elementary ages can relate and interact with the story because of the stickers, or dots, the Wemmicks are given for their appearance.
In this specific story, Lucado connects the message of individualism to being a 'son of God' exceptionally well.
The story of Punchinello imitates the idea that God loves us even though we make mistakes and have flaws!
Mr. Bower gave this book to me, when I was in 4th grade. Cute.
This is such a good book! My mom would read it to Caleb and me, and it is so good. This book reflects the conflict of uncertainty and purpose in simple terms, tying it in to a maker with a purpose in whom I strongly believe in.
I read this because the psychologist accidentally left in on the podium. When I saw this book, I did not hesitate to read it before bringing it back. And yeah... this is an awesome read._FRTC
This is a beautifully designed and illustrated spiritual book for toddlers and children.
It carries a very simple message – we are all God’s creatures, and he loves us despite (or sometimes even because) of our many flaws and defects.
Pretending that those flaws don’t exist will not help us either in our everyday life or in our relationship with God. Furthermore, even if you buy into this book’s core message, the story is pretty heavy-handed and in-your-face preachy.
To those parents I would recommend a simple prayer book for toddlers or even one of the beautifully written and illustrated Bible adaptations for children.
The author gave young readers a good deal of reasoning credit.
The gist being that what others think of us--good or bad--doesn't matter unless we ALLOW it to matter to us.
My children were a little off-put by the exaggerated proportions of the Wemmicks, finding them a bit creepy initially.
My one complaint would be that the story ended a bit abruptly.
(My kids did notice this, and asked if the rest of the story was in a different book.) It looks as though this book belongs to a series, so perhaps there is more satisfaction to be found in later installments.
While the book was written for children to understand that God loves them no matter what, I was given the book when I was probably about 15 or 16.
The message was still loud and clear - but I didn't see Eli as God...
This is another one of those books that I still have on the shelf in my apartment and take out to read when I feel a bit down.
Similar to Dr. Seuss's The Sneetches, You Are Special is definitely a story for anyone to read who questions why they're even here when they feel invisible to the world around them.
Great book, good message, wonderful illustrations.
My 5 year old sat and listened to me read this book and I was so grateful for a good message to discuss with him. Really great children's book!
They give each other stars and dot.
Stars are for being talented and pretty, and dots are for being ugly or non-talented.
Punchinello is a Wemmick who receives dots, but one day he meets a Wemmick who doesn’t have stars or dots and is told to go visit Eli. He does, and Eli tells Punchinello that he is special because Eli made him.
He also tells him the only way to get rid of the spots is to not care about what other people think about him.
When Punchinello leaves Eli’s, one of his dots falls off of his body.
If you are smart, pretty, or talented, they will place a star on your wooden frame.
But if you are not star-worthy then they will place a grey dot instead.
Punchinello is one such Wemmick, no matter how hard he tries, he just keeps getting more and more gray dots.
It takes a chance meeting with a Wemmick that has no stickers whatsoever that finally sets Punchinello in the right direction.This was a lovely story that perfectly illustrated how God sees us and how we let the world bog us down with their ideas of perfection.
En cuanto a la narración, considero que se pudo haber profundizado más en la historia, aunque puede que esta sea mi visión de adulta y que para un niño sea suficiente lo que se encuentra en el grupo.
Pero también puede que mi visión haya sido afectada porque vi la adaptación audiovisual de este cuento y en ella se le muestran al público unas imágenes más detalladas que las del libro.
Tal vez por eso me parece que pasa muy por encima de todo.De todas formas, es una historia súper corta con unas ilustraciones que de verdad son hermosas.
The perfect book to read to a student who feels as though they are not good enough to fit in or are different from those around them.
The moral of this story is that you don't have to be like everyone else.
I am in love with this book.
I feel like many children feel unwanted and they desire for someone to tell them they are cared about and are special.
It is important for children to grow up understanding that they have just as much to offer as anybody surrounding them.
This book will give them an inspirational boost to feel proud about themselves and special.
Независимо дали ще почерпите мърда поука от притчата на Макс Лукадо или ще се възхищавате на майсторските илюстрации на художника Серхио Мартинес, „Ти си скъпоценен” е наистина скъпоценна книга. Заемайки от Карло Колоди мотива за живите дървени кукли, създателите на тази книжка са разказали по простичък и красив начин една важна и много актуална история, която учи децата на това, че не само красивите, умните и талантливите са специални и заслужаващи обич и внимание. Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле": https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
This is a fantastic book that teaches everyone that reads it, regardless of their age, that it is more important to love yourself than to care what other people think of you.
There will always be people judging you and telling you that you aren't good enough.
I love this book because it is a god reminder that I am in charge of how I will live my life.
Little Punchinello is someone I think we can all relate to in the knowledge that sometimes we don't feel like we're good enough, but that just means we're measuring ourselves to the wrong standard.
I wish adults would read this one too and remember the message - how candid God's love is toward us.
On our personal journey, we are often labeled and framed according to our performance which is measured by human standards.
God does not see us in labels, frames, or colors, and does not love us according to our performance.
He made us, He did not make a mistake, and loves us as we are because we belong to Him. Once these words become revelation in us, everything changes and what others think about us matters very little because what is important is that in the greater scheme of things, we are beautiful in our Creator's eyes.
Age recommended: age 4 and up This is one of those gems that I loved so much I couldn't wait to read it to my child, but I also wanted to wait till she would really appreciate and comprehend it.
It's one of those classics that you just have to own, and you don't get tired of reading, because it becomes more meaningful as you get older.
Every time I read it it reminds me of who I am as a child of God. As my children get older, I'm excited to see what kind of conversations this story will spark.
I love the object lessons in this book. We use them all the time. If my bright child comes home from school and says, "Mom, John says I'm an idiot." I say, "Well, are you an idiot?" He'll smile & say "no". Then I'll remind him that the 'dots only stick if you let them'.Also, whenever people ask who my hero is, I tell them Lucia. I know she's fictional, but I want to be just like her and not let the dots nor the stars stick!Kid's books are so much fun. :)
