https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111516.Come_Tell_Me_How_You_Live
In this book Agatha Christie writes of when she followed along on excavations made at Chagar Bazar, Tell Brak and in the Balikh Valley, all in the northeastern tip of Syria, where the country borders Iraq and Turkey.
Need such be considered inconsequential?Christie liked the people of the area, and this shows.
This was a delightful read and having read it I think I really do understand what it was like to follow along on an archeological expedition in the 1930s.The audiobook is narrated by Judith Boyd.
ربما تكون رواياتها البوليسية مليئة بالتشويق، ربما؛فأنا لم أقرأ لها أيّ رواية منها؛لذا ليس لها عندي رصيد يكفي لأبتلع هذا الكم من السخرية والتحقير والنظرة المستعلية حين تصف أخلاق العرب وأحوالهم بسوريا والعراق.فـ إن كانت كما يُقال عنها لديها قلم بارع في الوصف فهذا برأيي دليل يُدينها عنديإذ أنها حتمًا تدرك الفرق بين النقد أو وصف الأحوال المُشاهدة وبين التحقير والتسفيه؛هو فرقٌ دقيقٌ جدًا وهي قد مزّقته للأسف.لا يخلو مجتمع من عيوب فـ كما لدى البعض عندنا ما يُستهجن من أخلاق، لدى مجتمعها ما يُستهجن أيضًا؛فـ لمَ التعالي والنظرة الدونية للآخر والتعميم وحتى أحيانًا سلاطة اللسان!
Rating Clarification: 4.5 StarsI wasn't sure what to expect when I casually picked this memoir up at the library, but it certainly exceeded any expectations I might have had about Agatha Christie's personality, sense of humor, and joie de vivre.Recently read biographies and/or memoirs of Daphne duMaurier and Georgette Heyer left me with a great respect for these women as writers, but didn't do much to endear them to me as women I'd personally want to know or be friends with.
Tighter editing would have made this a 5-star book to me.I would firmly recommend this to anyone who enjoys a lighthearted memoir, who wants to know a bit more about Agatha Christie or who enjoys travelogues from this time period.
وبشكل خاصّ عندما اضطرّت إلى النّوم في غرفة مليئة بجميع أنواع الحشرات المخيفة، ناهيك عن الفئران وربّما الجرذان أيضاً..كيف كابدت الصّعوبات وظروف الحياة الصّعبة والشّاقّة فقط من أجل تحقيق هدف أُرسلت له، ويا ليته هدف نبيل!!ورأيتني كيف أفقد اتّزاني عندما أرى صرصاراً على بعد أميال منّي، وتذكّرت كيف استدعينا قوى الأمن بأسلحتهم كي يقوموا بضرب جرذ وجدناه على درج بناء أقارب كنت في زيارتهم..ولكن مع كل ذلك لم تستطع أن تخفي نظرتها الاستشراقيّة المتعاليّة لوضع النّاس وحالهم وكيف كانت تقارن ذلك بلندن..أزعجني نظرة التّبجيل والتّعظيم التي كان وما زال يلقاها الأوربّي عندنا أو ما نسمّيه الخواجا..وكلّ ما تعالى أكثر كلّ ما نال قدرأ أكبر من التقدير..
من الغلاف الأمامي والعنوان ،ظننتُ أنني سألتقي بشيء لم أعرفه عن سوريا والعراق ،وأنه هناك بشاعة في سور
2.5صحيح بأن الكتاب يعتبر كبير في الحجم نوعاً ما إلا أنه يحتوي على يوميات أجاثا كريستي غير المتسلسلة في العراق وسوريا، فكما وصفته الكاتبة فهو كتاب ليس عميقاً ولا يلقي الضوء على علم الآثار ولا به وصف للمناظر الطبيعية بل إنه مجرد كتاب يحفل بالأعمال اليومية والأحداث اليومية لأن التشويق الحقيقي يكمن في الحياة اليومية للفرد.
إن رافقتك قصص ورايات أجاثا كريستي منذ دخولك عالم القراءة فلن تتردد لحظة واحدةبمرافقة الكاتبة وزوجها 
Christie however adjusts and acquits herself well, helping out on site and around the dig house - she even tries her hand at dig-house decorating despite the rather off-putting fact that Max can only be persuaded to discuss a colour scheme by speaking in terms of ancient pottery fabrics and colours.Dust, dirt, errant home-invading wildlife (beware the camel spiders), an eclectic work force, "interesting" local traditions and superstitions, poor quality food, long hours and the ability to live with a group of people who are basically obsessive compulsives, are all things you need to get used to if you want to come on a dig.
A great book by the wonderful Agatha Christie, but not at all like her usual murder mysteries.
Leave it to the lady of mystery to write about the experiences of the every-day life!This book was like polite dinner conversation with one of the most interesting ladies in the world: It was not very orderly, not perfectly rehearsed or scripted, and a bit self-righteous at times, but if you approach this book with an open mind and any knowledge of the author or the era, you will find it pleasantly surprising.
It's interesting to think that people used to just go out and dig up the tells with no more fuss than having to split their finds 50/50 with the native government.
Christie doesn't go into a ton of detail about the excavations, though there's one harrowing story about four men dying when their illicit digging undermines the tell, which then collapses on them.I enjoyed this account, and I'd recommend it to anyone who's interested in Agatha Christie's life and would like a glimpse of what she was like behind the biographies.
Me, sitting down to tea with Agatha Christie: Come, tell me how you live!'Agatha Christie: Quite beautifully, well within our extensive means, and with a gently comical yet frustratingly persistent servant problem.It's incredibly difficult to describe just how unpleasant this book was to read without making it sound like I detest it.
Agatha Christie wrote this charming memoir in answer to questions about what exactly she did, and how she lived, during trips to the Middle East with her archeologist husband Max Mallowan.
She paints a colourful portrait of those on the dig, the locals who work alongside and for them and the places themself.Although it must have been difficult, at times, for Max Mallowan to have had such a successful and talented wife, it is fair to say that, in the Middle East, the European way of favouring women was tolerated with a certain amusement.
I have loved Agatha Christie's novels since I was at school and how wonderful to read this memoir and realise that she was every bit as sweet and charming as I imagined her to be.
Reading this book was like having a Facebook messenger conversation with Agatha Christie herself while she was on holiday, if she'd been on Facebook.
Snippets of observations shared, almost chronologically but not necessarily in a cohesive order.A lovely insight into her life pre WWII visiting countries I can only dream of seeing in the current political climate.This book doesn't give you any in-depth insight into the world of archaeology apart from causing some angst re the items Max casually threw away!
This book contains the details of an archaeological expedition from the point of an non archaeological observer...
Christie doesn't go to minor details of the archaeological part, so one will be disappointed if you start reading with that expectations.
she has tried more to express the various difficulties and hurdles they faced in the expedition in a funny way and she has succeeded.
Though we can empathize with their difficulties we are able to take it easy along with her.
Towards the end, We too end up thinking like Christie "that it was a very happy way to live".
تعالَ قُل لي كيف تعيش؟ذلك السؤال الذي طرحته أغاثا كريستي وهي تتأمل أمام التل.السؤال الذي يُطرح لعالم الآثار عن الماضي، ويُعثر على الإجابة باستخدام المعاول والمجارف والسلال.أنه في الواقع مجرد كتاب دونت فيه أغاثا كريستي الأعمال والأحداث اليومية خلال مرافقتها لزوجها أثناء رحلة التنقيب للقرى السورية على الحدود التركية والعراق، دون التطرق لعلم الآثار ولا للتاريخ.ستشعر وأنت تقرأ هذا الكتاب أنه كُتب بقلب حنون ورقيق.
Ξεκαρδιστική διήγηση των εμπειριών της Αγκάθα Κρίστι ως συζύγου αρχαιολόγου σε ανασκαφές της Μέσης Ανατολής.
Agatha Christie Mallowan confessed that "Come, tell me how you live" is an 'inconsequent chronicle', and to a certain extent, she was right. However, this book is rather unique and is quite interesting because it bares witness to a past time in a distant region. Actually, she wrote this memoir to tell what was her life during those years she was in the Middle East with her archeologist husband. And indeed conducting archeological excavations in the Middle-East, in the 1930s, didn't match Indiana Jones description!
This engaging memoir covers Agatha Christie's time on archaeological digs with her husband, famous archaeologist Max Mallowan. Having just read They Came to Baghdad, I was struck by how familiar I already was with many of the heroine's realizations of what archaeology teaches us. I'd learned them from reading and rereading this book. Christie's love of the ordinary people and their lives comes through strong and clear, as well as her own humor and humility. This is a unique perspective of a time long gone by in the Middle East. I can't recommend this highly enough.
Goodreads skips the proper authorship: Agatha Christie Mallowan.
Begun in the mid-1930's, this is the tale of an English archaeologist's wife trekking across Europe, through "Beyroot", to Syria, where they more than set up camp, they build a household.
Returning annually, she entertains (slyly educating) the reader with tales of Kurds and Armenians and Mohammedans and Christians, but never "Syrians." Here is a pre-WWII world where once an ancient man sits beside her and asks "Are you French?
English?
I heard there was a war.
Christie Mallowan shelved the book when they returned to London and the Blitz.
In 1944 she pulled out her diaries and finished it, publishing as the war ended.You won't find ulterior motives here.
يكشف لنا الكتاب أسرار من رحلة أغاثا إلى سوريا على وجه التحديد وماهي العقبات والصعوبات التي واجهتهم في طريقهم إلى العمل لم أستمتع بحياتي بقراءة يوميات أو بالاصح النوع المتعارف عليه باليوغرافيا كما فعلت مع أغاثا إن نقراء لاغاثا خارج إطار الغموض فهي تجربة مشوقة وفيها نوع من الخوف بإن يخيب الظن بإسلوبها المعتاد لكن دائما هنالك إستثناء فهي لاتملك قلم سحر في سرد الروايات دون غيره من الأنواع الأدبية الأخرى فلحظاتها في سوريا كانت ممتعة مشوقة مليئة بطابع كوميدي هزلي معتاد منها
Although published in 1946, the archaeological expeditions described actually took place during the 1930s so there is a pronounced inter-war years feel to the book.
In contrast, Mallowan orders his men to dig straight through any Roman or earlier levels, dismissing such 'modernity' in his quest for far older civilisations.Much of the humour is a little awkward to read now focussing as it does on not-very-successful attempts to make the British expedition's Syrian servants behave as their country house counterparts would back in England.
I just wish Christie had written a more detailed and descriptive book of the actual archaeology.
في هذا الكتاب تحدثت أغاثا كريستي عن رحلتها إلى سوريا وتحديداً إلى المناطق الشرقية مع زوجها الذي كان يعمل في مجال التنقيب ماكس مالوان في فترة الانتداب الفرنسي.الكتاب أشبه بيوميات تتناول كل التفاصيل التي مروا بها مع انطباعاتها الخاصة.وبالتالي كانت معظم هذه المذكرات تتحدث عن المناطق المحيطة بالتلال الأثرية الشهيرة التي تم التنقيب فيها مثل تل براك، تل شاغر بازار حيث توزعت رحلاتهم ضمن دير الزور، الحسكة والرقة.الكتاب يقدم لمحة عن طبيعة عمل الآثاريين في تلك الفترة وطبيعة البيئة والأشخاص هناك.
It is an easy read, more of her diary than insights on history and archaeology in Syria, in case you are expecting that.The book is very light and may seem superfluous, one might think that Agatha was unpertubed by the plight of human life or treatment of women in Syria, but once in a while you would see subtle hints of her concern.
And of course, she helped in his work by labelling the finds from the tells and developing the photographs apart from the writing.Read this if you have read Agatha Christie and want to know her as a person.P.S: I really want to read Mac's (the architect's) diary!
It was fascinating to read about the way archeologists worked, paying native workers a weekly wage plus bakshish (extra payment for each artifact they unearthed.) And as much as I enjoyed reading about the details of the dig, it was especially interesting to read about the mid-east when it wasn’t seething with the kinds of turmoil we read about these days.
But I did get the impression that despite Agatha Christie’s obvious love of the region and the people who lived there, she nevertheless treated them rather condescendingly, especially the various servants that were employed to keep the Mallorans and the English members of the party who accompanied them, living in proper style.
If you enjoy hearing about the team's constipation issues or the fact that one of the last scenes includes lavatory seats floating in the water (poor Mac's first architectural job), then this is for you.Christie tells about all the mundane things that might happen while travelling: buying dresses for the fuller form, the evil nature of zippers, dysfunctional washing facilities, uncomfortable taxis, weakness of buying shoes, struggles with a reticent member of the team, inefficiency of the post office etc.
A fascinating description of life on an archeological dig back in the 1930's. While I have always had somewhat of an interest in the Middle East, after reading Christie's book my desire to have the opportunity to travel in those lands increased. Now, if it were only not a war zone.
I have long enjoyed Dame Agatha Christie's cozy mysteries.
But I believe he was her soulmate.The most amazing part of this book is a glimpse into a world long gone!
The book was begun in the mid-1930's.
Characters consist of Bedouins, Kurds, French colonial officials, Turks, Armenians, Yedzikis, and all in their native and almost untouched selves.Today when all we hear from this area is slaughter and massacres and civil war, it is an eye-opener to read of people--Muslim, Christian, and Yedzidis who live peacefully (almost) side by side.
The highest compliment I can pay a book is that I've already read it over twice!Bravo, Dame Agatha!
I would especially like to read the two mentioned on the blurb as having been influenced by her travels, Murder in Mesopotamia and Appointment with Death.I liked all the characters she worked with: Michel with his 'economia' (buying 200 moulding oranges because they were so cheap); B and his mosquito-proof pyjamas; the poor houseboy who just can't fathom these strange foreigners' ways.And then Agatha herself, railing against the new fashion for zips, or being told by her husband to sit on the suitcase so he can close it "because if you can't get it closed, no one can!".

Actually rather disappointing and (gasp!) boring. Her prejudices against "the natives" were not particularly charming, and her trials and tribulations were predominantly trivial.
