https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46429.A_Coffin_for_Dimitrios
When I first heard “ISIL” substituted for “ISIS,” I thought “What the heck does the 'L' stand for?” Somebody told me it stood for “the Levant,” and I immediately thought of A Coffin for Dimitrios,” my favorite novel of international intrigue.What is “the Levant”?
As he journeys from Istanbul to Athens, from Geneva to Paris, he interviews people who have known Dimitrios, and each one—the leftwing journalist, the female cafe owner, the master spy, the human-trafficker—has a story to tell.
Not only is each of the settings--from a sleazy Athens cafe to a Swiss mountain villa—perfectly realized, but the voice of each subsidiary narrator is individualized as well.
In From Russia with Love James Bond reads this book to pass the time on a train.Charles Latimer, professor at a university, and like many men of his profession also a writer of espionage thrillers, was on vacation in Istanbul when he received an invitation to view the body of a notorious criminal named Dimitrios.
You are the only nation in the world that believes it has a monopoly of ordinary common sense.”As Dimitrios’s dossier grows Latimer realizes that the books he has been writing are far removed from the real world of an international criminal like Dimitrios.
This was a fun read.
According to the jacket this was the first novel in which an everyman is caught in a web of international intrigue.
One could see Sydney Greenstreet, for example, in the role of Mister Peters.
(Or, as it turns out, one did, and forgot that he had.
Oops) Greenstreet as Peters in The Mask of DimitriosThe protagonist, Mister Latimer, is an economist turned mystery writer who meets a Turkish head of Secret Police in Istanbul.
Conversation about this notorious criminal ensues, and Latimer is hooked.
It was quite fun, and resolved rather well also.Eric Ambler - as an extra on a BBC production
He was a great traveler, was Dimitrios.In preparing to dispose of Dimitrios decaying body, Haki hooks Latimer with the idea of filling in the huge blanks in his dossier:But there must be people who knew of Dimitrios, his friends (if he had any), and his enemies, people in Smyrna, people in Sophia, people in Belgrade, in Adrianople, in Paris, in Lyons, people all over Europe, who could answer them.
But it was amusing to play with the idea and if one were a little tired of Istanbul …And so Latimer takes up the harmless task of asking questions about this mysterious and notorious figure to satisfy his literary curiosity.
Latimer takes an interest in this mysterious Dimitrios and decides to try and delve into his history to write a true crime novel rather one of fiction, but what starts out as a few general inquiries soon turns into a journey of obsession that sees him travel around Europe, meeting old acquaintances and learning that Dimitrios was mixed up in some serious business including, spies, assassination attempts, people trafficking, drug smuggling and false identities, but just who can be trusted?, and what is to be believed?, could his own life be in danger?, before he knows it things things turn far greater than he could have first imagined!.
Good Business and Bad Business were the elements of the new theology.” ― Eric Ambler, A Coffin for DimitriosIt is hard not to like Eric Ambler's amateur spies.
Ambler has a voice and style which are matched by his ability to capture a reader's interest with characters and setting.
He is like a magician that spends an elaborate amount of time carefully setting a formal table just so at the very end he can pull the cloth out -- leaving the characters shaking from the movement, but readers stuck within their own inertia.
"[Dimitrios] had the appearance of being tame, but when you looked into his brown eyes you saw that he had none of the feelings that make ordinary men soft, that he was always dangerous."Published prior to World War II (but aware of some of the tensions), this is a more cerebral spy novel featuring a crime writer who ends up investigating a murder.
The novel starts with Latimer in Turkey, talking about his crime writing, and learning about a current police case.
At a party, he meets the chief of Istanbul's secret police, who tells him, as everyone does, that he would write a crime novel if he had the time.
He asks Latimer if he'd like to get a little closer to real crime...and then brings him to the morgue, where he shows him the water-logged corpse of an infamous criminal named Dimitrios.
Off he goes to the far reaches of Europe, to follow the trail of Dimitrios's crimes, telling people he meets that he's doing research for a novel, but really, he's just eager to have a whiff of real evil.What amazed me was this.
Set (and written) in the late 1930s, Charles Latimer is an English mystery novelist who learns about the roguish life of Dimitrios after he’s taken to view his corpse in the morgue.
But Latimer’s journey gets the attention of some shady figures with their own interest in “Dimitrios”…The Mask of Dimitrios (published in the United States as A Coffin For Dimitrios) is described as a mystery thriller overshadowed by the encroaching darkness of fascism in Europe – and it’s none of those things!
It’s interesting that, in a book featuring Latimer as the protagonist and Dimitrios as the engine, Peters is by far the most memorable character in the story.
This is very well written and had me second guessing everyone.
And Mr Peters is one of the most fascinating characters I've ever read.The Bad:(view spoiler)[After building up to a big reveal I was horrified to find that Dimitrios was not Colonel Haki of the Turkish secret police.
(hide spoiler)] The protagonist was also a bit dull, obviously written to appeal to the target audience of the time.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:Mr Latimer reminded me a lot of Frodo Baggins actually.
As a 'Friends' character he was most like one of the Brits who made a cameo on the episode with Ross's wedding.
'I am sorry,' said Latimer uncomfortably. 'The real reason why I want this information from you is so peculiar that I hesitated to give it.' An excellent crime novel that well deserves its classic status.Latimer is a mystery writer on holiday. He's supposed to be writing his next book--especially now that he doesn't have his Oxford salary to depend upon--but instead, he's treading water. He finds himself introduced to a Colonel Haki who has a mysteriously high and dangerous position with the Tu
("He was always meeting people who felt they could write detective stories if they had the time.") More interesting to Latimer is the offer Colonel Haki impulsively extends to him: want to see the washed-up corpse of a sordid real-life criminal?
I am obviously being invited to the wrong lunches with the wrong people, because they never end like this.Dimitrios was a large-scale drug dealer, a pimp, and a murderer, utterly unlike the characters Latimer has been writing, situated in their orderly country houses.
(Such restraint: back then, if I saw a book was brand-spanking new, I held off and told myself to wait for a used copy; these days, I'm not so well-behaved--hence the massive to-read shelf looming over my shoulder like a troll with a law degree and a court summons...).Eventually, I found a used Eric Ambler book, and that book was a paperback edition (different than what is pictured here, I just preferred to include my review with the lot of them) of "A Coffin for Dimitrios." Soon as I picked up that book and began reading it, I dove right in and lost myself in its dense network of treachery and cloak and dagger.That friend of my friend was right: Eric Ambler writes a great espionage story set in Europe on the eve of World War II.
You can smell Orson Welles off the pages - or maybe it's Graham Greene?
late 1930's and there is the innocent bystander who is drawn into a world that he truly doesn't understand.
In other words welcome to the world of Eric Amber.The classic suspense writer and this is a great classic thriller.
And back to Welles, it reminds me of The Third Man - not in plotting, but just the feel of dread in Europe at the time.
But wait Third Man takes place after the war - well, this is right before the war.
Went into this mystery/thriller with certain expectations. I did enjoy the period and the setting of the novel but I did have an inkling early on how the mystery/thriller component would turn out. There weren't a lot of surprises in store.My favourite characters were the shady Peters and Colonel Haki whose presence was quite minute unfortunately. Charles Latimer was a likeable enough main character but his presence was often overshadowed by the other characters.
I give this one five stars because I've heard that it was the first of its kind (international espionage thriller) and because it was one of those books I hated to end. Eric Ambler was a first-writer...P.S. I prefer the title given to it in the UK, "Mask of Dimitrios", which I think was the also title of the Hollywood movie.
I’d heard that 'The Mask of Dimitrios' (1939) (aka 'A Coffin for Dimitrios') was one of his very best.
Charles Latimer, an English crime novelist, is in Istanbul where he meets Colonel Haki of the Turkish secret police.
Haki tells Latimer about Dimitrios Makropolous, a murderer, drug dealer, assassin and general rogue, whose body has just been fished out of the Bosphorus.
Fascinated by the story, Latimer decides to retrace Dimitrios's steps across Europe to find out more about him.
The plot machinations of Latimer's investigation make 'The Mask of Dimitrios' a rich source of European history during the early 1920s through to the end of 1930s.
In fact, you might say that I prefer my thrillers and spy novels on screen rather than in print.Which leads me to my point...A Coffin for Dimitrios doesn't read well for me.
There was a lot of tell and very little show....In the second half of the book, we get several long stories from people who knew Dimitrios.
Thrillers and spy novels, should, I think, by their nature be action stories.
Not as far as I could see.I absolutely understand that this book is a big deal in the thriller/spy novel world.
Eric Ambler very skilfully painted the pictures for the different countries, all the places and people are vividly clear and distinguishable in my mind.
Many detective authors try and make their stories sound realistic by saying things in their book like "If this was a book it would have been easy, but this is real life and it's much complicated".
But ultimately their stories are similar in a basic pattern, that is, there's a crime and a plot (maybe convoluted or not), and justice or a revelation at the end.
Though Eric Ambler says similar things in this book, he did make his story different from that basic pattern.
I found this novel to be meandering, and it had too much first person narrative for my liking. A writer is taken to see the remains of Dimitrios, who has a checkered past. The writer then decides to look into his life, and discovers much more than is known by the police who found the body. I did not realize until reading the afterword that this book was written in the 1930s.
Excellent crime and detective story, spanning Western and Eastern Europe just prior to WWII.
Ambler's low-key approach to his main character, Charles Latimer--a writer of detective novels on the trail of arch-criminal Dimitrios Makropoulos--was droll and even got me to laugh out loud once or twice.
Make no mistake--the book isn't a comedy in any way; it's just that I'm appreciative of the kind of craftsmanship Ambler brings to the tale.
Recommended for any fan of well-told story of intrigue.P.S. Jim Noble, if you're wondering whatever happened to your period 4 geometry test, you folded it up and stuck it between the pages of this book.
Latimer is convinced that if he could retrace the steps of Dimitrios, and find out how his body washed up on shore, that he could write his best book yet.
Armed with the info provided by Col. Haki, he does his best to find out just who was Dimitrios Makropolous...and enters into a world of intrigue and into the life of a very dangerous individual.An amazing story, I can definitely recommend it to anyone who is a fan of British crime fiction, or anyone who likes novels set just before WWII.
The dramatic value of adventure comes when the unadventurous man is inserted into the world of commerce and becomes involved in desperate matters through no fault of his own.
It is not a world of good and evil.
Good business and Bad Business were the elements in the new theology.
Dimitrios was not evil.
He was logical and consistent in the European jungle…” The contribution of this novel is that Ambler teaches us that the best spy novels are not really about spies and spying at all, but are about the world in which spies and spying move.
A good read. It's held up amazingly well, and though the locations deadly power games played by Dimitrios have shifted in today's world, you can't help recognise techniques for fomenting discord.The central plot device (naive mystery writer sets out to satisfy curiosity) seems pretty shaky to me, and some of the tools used to advance the narrative are clunky (the letters that Latimer writes to the Turkish policeman to bring him up to date, for instance). I'm surprised I hadn't read it before, glad I have now.
A Frenchman named Chamfort, who should have known better, once said that chance was a nickname for Providence.Well ... what can I say apart from that this didn't gel for me. -----------------------------17/5/2013 - Re-visit via radio: http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01shstw
Written in the late 1930s, this one must have made a big impact.It covers the massacre of Greeks in Smyrna by the Turks in 1922, drug trafficking, the sex trade and the ill gotten gains of a shady bank.The "hero" Charles Latimer seems to represent all things British, albeit he is a bit dry. There are plenty of juicy characters in the form of the master-spy Grodek, the mysterious Mr Peters and villainous Dimitrios, a classic red herring, some black mailing, a shot out and an ending that explains all.
An English economics professor turned author of detective fiction attempts his own piece of detective work to piece together the fragments of a criminal's life.
I first came across this novel while reading a Bond book.
I seem to remember that he (Bond) had thought it his favourite spy story.
The writing is very evocative of a bygone era of pre-war Europe which is about to be overturned by climatic event; in fact the threat of war seems to hang like a mist over the whole book.
Perhaps others have improved on Ambler's style, but for me this was a real experience as well as a novel.
Bestselling spy novelist Charles Cumming has chosen to discuss  A Coffin for Dimitrios  by Eric Ambler on FiveBooks as one of the top five on his subject - Espionage, saying that:"...Eric Ambler is the grandfather of the serious spy novel. Ambler was the same generation as Graham Greene, and he was, like a lot of educated people at that time, a kind of proto-Marxist, a socialist. He believed that he could use the thriller not only to entertain but also as a political tool, to say something about
Bestselling spy novelist Charles Cumming has chosen to discuss 
  A Coffin for Dimitrios
 by Eric Ambler on FiveBooks as one of the top five on his subject - Espionage, saying that:"...Eric Ambler is the grandfather of the serious spy novel. Ambler was the same generation as Graham Greene, and he was, like a lot of educated people at that time, a kind of proto-Marxist, a socialist. He believed that he could use the thriller not only to entertain but also as a political tool, to say something about the state of the nation...."The full interview is available here: http://fivebooks.com/interviews/charl...

Classic noir with some great passages by Ambler.
I saw the movie on tv many years ago and while I don't really remember it, it's very possible that I subconsciously remembered enough to anticipate the main plot twist...and enough to realize that Sydney Greenstreet was PERFECTLY cast as Peters.
I'll have to revisit the movie to know about the rest of the casting.
This book has all the atmospheric ingredients to make it a heady brew of espionage, drug dealing, assumed idententies - you know - ALL the things that make a book interesting.
It's the first Ambler I've read but I'm sure to go on from here.
My least favourite of his so far - but he writes so evocatively of a vanished time and place he's hard to put down
