https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84846.Night_Sins
Absolutely LOVED it. Great story, kickass heroine, compelling writing.Except...Harrison Ford look-alike hero?Yes, I'm shallow like that.I hate it when authors do that. Please stop putting images in my head I don't want. Let my own imagination take care of that.Oh well. At least he was an awesome broody a-hole....
When an eight-year old boy goes missing from a small Minnesota town in the dead of winter, Special Agent Megan Malloy works to assist Mitch Holt, the town's chief of police, in locating him.
Megan has a fast and firm rule against dating cops and with sexism running rampant, she can ill afford a relationship with Mitch but they can't deny their attraction.
Many relationships are examined and there are no perfect people in this story and there are many surprises.
Be forewarned that this is a two-book commitment as all is not resolved by the end of the story, which is a bit unfair.
The woman who broke the sex barrier for females in her position in law enforcement broke her "no dating cops" rule and slept with the chief the second day she knew him, putting her job at risk and looking like an idiot to all working women to boot.
Really poor character development.Finished it.
Ending was obviously either that the writer didn't know how to finish a book or a setup for a sequel.
Women who have sex get punished.
Ironically, the only place this writer seemed to care about her characters was when they were having sex and then she went on in great detail.
The best way I can describe this novel is pure disappointment.
It seems the author got carried away with the numerous characters in this story and didn't know how to end the mystery.
The final chapter was annoying in the sense that it left me completely hanging on why the kidnapping occurred, what the reasoning was behind the culprit and would the killer strike again?
Hoag left the novel hanging so I figured a sequel might be written to extend the characters, but there isn't anything.
I will not read more of her novels due to the bad taste this one left in my mouth...
This book was written in 1995.
I did not finish it because ...The main character, Megan O'Malley, was newly assigned to replace a long time and beloved detective in small town Minnesota.
And of course (common with books written in the 90s) he is constantly thinking about how he's going to get her into bed!50 pages of that garbage was more than I could stand.
The mystery might have been a good one, but I've got to have characters I like - decent, hard working detectives who are civil to each other.Don't waste your time on this garbage.
Rolling your eyes yet?And let's get something clear, Mitch Holt is an asshole with anger issues and we are encouraged to think about him as the McDreamy of the police force.
He is attracted to Megan and the first time she angers him he pinned her to a wall and stared at her chest then tried to kiss, and when she pushed him away he somehow made her feel bad.
How was the plot you may ask, well I don't know what to tell you, because there is a second book ( which I'm not gonna read) and we have no clue what happened at the end of the book.
It's really one plot broken into two books based on the H/h romance.
Well, not romance as it's definitely insta lust and sex.
This book felt like it had a lot of filler which did not advance the plot or add to the characters' development.
Plus it really ends with the plot unfinished which in my books, is a cliffhanger.
I hate cliffhangers and serials.
I like series, but not serials which leave me with the "this is incomplete and frustrating" feeling.The plot is good but really felt like it should have been one book.More later...
I picked this up one day at the library because I was intrigued by the description. Now I'm just glad I didn't pay for it. I thought this book was supposed to be a mystery, but the main characters were much more interested in each other than in finding a missing boy. Definitely not worth a read.
This is story of a missing eight-years boy Josh Kirkwood and his family and how the involved cops faced his mysterious disappearance.The author managed to keep the suspense until the end (no spoilers here) and describing the main characters lives around this crime.4* Down the Darkest Road (Oak Knoll, #3)4* Night Sins (Deer Lake, #1)
bit cheesey in parts but so glad of it, nowt else to read!
This novel is ostensibly a mystery, set around the abduction of a young boy from a hockey rink in remote Deer Lake, MI.
When Megan meets Deer Lake's Chief of Police, the Harrison Fordian Mitch Holt, he's wearing red long johns for a winter pageant, and his outfit, of course, leaves nothing to the imagination.
The other major characters are also "types" : the verbally abusive husband, the warm and supportive neighbor, the chief's secretary who holds the department together with her strength of character, the abducted child's mom who's torn between the responsibilities of motherhood and of her job as ER physician.Too bad Night Sins doesn't live up to its blurb.
I've read quite a lot of books by this author and have always preferred her crime novels to her earlier romance novels...yet somehow this book manages to combine the two to good effect.
The story is set over twelve or so days, starting with the arrival of Megan O'Malley, the new BCA agent assigned to a small town.
Yes, the 'romance' between the two main characters is a bit clichéd, but only in the same way that every chic-lit book on the market is clichéd.
Bloody awful book full of stereotype characters and ad nauseam tropes.
The person had just finished it and said that the book wasn't a bad read.
Maybe I misunderstood and the person said it was a bad read?
The strong female cop with daddy issues trying to make it in a man's world, who falls for the local police chief who hasn't loved anyone since his wife and only son died (and he blames himself....blah, blah, blah).
Then there is the priest who is trying to help out, but questions his faith and is in love with the mother of the kidnapped child.
It was fast paced with a lot of suspense and it kept me guessing until the last few chapters as to who the criminal was.There was a nice romantic element to the story, and I really fell in love with some of the characters.
There were also characters that Hoag forced you to love to hate.
I couldn't help disliking them, I actually enjoyed hating them and kept wishing dreadful things on them lol.
It's one thing to have a writer influence you to like a hero or a heroine, but it's an entirely different matter to put down a book and admit that you loved hating a character.
Sadly the book description was way better than the actual book.
But this description with all its potential is as good as it gets.
Repeatedly she makes bad decisions that go against everything that she believes in.
Moreover for someone who is supposedly smart; her decisions are just plain dumb.
The sexual relationship that develops instantaneously between Agent O'Malley of the BCA and the police chief of the small town is simply absurd and consequently the sex scenes between the two are gratuitous and cheap, doing nothing to advance the main plot.
As for the main plot, poorly developed is an understatement.
I picked this up from the "free" exchange table at work thinking it was a crime thriller and not realizing the steamy romance aspect to the author's approach. Most of these sultry scenes seemed out of place in the plot and rather distracting but maybe that's just me. I got sucked in by the first scene told through the eye's of 8-yr-old Josh (mercifully without gratuitous sex) and read it to the end despite my frequent irritation.
Good thriller! I read it ages ago and only thought of it tonight when a buddy told me she started reading a Tami Hoag novel. I remember being excited when Night Sins was adapted for the small screen starring Valerie Bertinelli and Harry Hamlin. I gobbled up the sequel before the movie adaptation premiered on February 23, 1997.
Just finished.. so good! Can't wait to read Guilty as Sin
540 pages of sub-zero chills as a small Minnesota town searchs for a missing boy. Strong female characters, lots of suspense and romance.
Há demasiados momentos que surgem como flagrante desculpa para que os coprotagonistas (a noviça Megan O’Malley e o polícia Mitch Holt) se envolvam física e psicologicamente, e as páginas da sua intimidade e do conflito ético-moral acabam por se sobrepor ao caos que invadiu a comunidade sossegada de Deer Lake, e isso de uma maneira demasiadamente exploratória e gratuita, quase forçada.Na narrativa, é muito claro como o romance entre Megan e Holt é prejudicial ao mistério.
Em menos páginas e com uma boa dose de subtileza, Hoag consegue construir momentos de intimidade muito mais estimulantes para personagens secundárias, cuja dimensão humana, mais ou menos distorcida, acresce à medida que o drama se vai desenrolando.
When it finally happened after hours and hours of slogging through it, I actually found myself yawning and saying something like, “yeah, ok, what’s next?”I wasn’t a big fan of the police chief, and the state field agent, O’Malley, absolutely turned me off beyond belief.
I’ll definitely read the sequel to this book, a title called Guilty As Sin, because so many things went unfinished in this one.
Nor should you consider this review some kind of steely-eyed pronouncement of never again, as in never again will I read Hoag’s books.
Annoying, to tell the truth.And yes, the ending wasn't quite the neat wrap-up one likes to see after investing this much time in a book.
but I certainly don't plan to invest more time on a sequel.
This was enough, thank you.My major problem with the book?
We hear a thousand times that she's a 'great cop' ...
When men act this way, they're ....
So I guess you can say I wasn't really taken with the main character.Half the book is a soft-porn romance between the 2 principal cops - her and him.
Chief of Police Mitch Holt and newly assigned BCA Agent Megan O'Malley work together to find the person who has taken Josh away.
With O'Malley being the first woman given an Agent position with the BCA, every move she makes is scrutinized and at the first slip up, they are ready to send her packing.
With twists and turns and everyone from a registered pedophile to a deacon from a Catholic church being the suspects, this plot will keep you guessing until the very end of the book.
If you like Tami Hoag, this book is a must read!
I thoroughly enjoyed this suspenseful book and the little asides sprinkled throughout kept your interest sparked even more!
Great characters!
You had to love Megan's mouth; she never knew when to keep it shut, to her detriment at times.
I really liked Hannah and, as much as I liked her, I disliked her husband, Paul.
One of the best parts of the book was Hannah telling him to leave!
Garritt Wright, Christopher Priest and Todd Childs are strange characters but I'm not sure they're the right age to have been the children in the Prologue.
But now I'm happy that I bought it & read it with my full dedication.
Even though the book is dragged little too much I kept on reading because all those text which were dragging it felt that they were needed.
The story, the writing, the characters, the humor, the infidelity etc were top notch.
I really liked the character of Agent O'Malley.
She was the one who made me to read this book till end.
There was humor also which I found pretty interesting because it makes me smile all the way.Not for the story but alteast for Agent O'Malley you must read this book.
NIGHT SINS - ExHoag, Tami - 1st in Deer lake seriesDeer Lake is a small Minnesota town where people know their neighbours and crime is something that happens on the evening news.
But the illusion of safety is shattered when eight-year-old Josh Kirkwood disappears from a hockey rink as he waits for his mother to pick him up after practice.
For police chief Mitch Holt, it is a frightening reminder of the big city crime that devastated his life before he fled to Deer Lake.1996 Top Read - I really liked this; it had enjoyable characters and kept me reading.
Night Sins is another suspenseful nail-biter from Tami Hoag that chronicles the abduction of a young boy from outside a small town hockey rink while his physician mother has been waylaid caring for victims of an automobile accident.
While everyone is looking for the young boy, the ordeal causes further strain to his parents' marriage, which was already on shaky ground.
(view spoiler)[Be prepared to read the second book in the series as well, because several threads of the story are left unresolved.
I loved this book strictly for the cat and mouse chase.
The everyday pursuit and what police and agents must do to wade through the clues was where the games began for me.
I could feel the sequel was coming and I was thrilled!!!!
Tami had me turning the pages faster towards the end with the thrill of the hunt.
The clues, the notes left behind were tantalizing!
What do we really know about our neighbors should be the theme of this book.
Could your own town come back after a church zealot nut and a pedophile carried so many secrets?
Tami Hoag conseguiu reconquistar-me depois da grande dissolução que foi "Aguas Calmas"."Pecados na Noite" é muito um livro completo: Mistério, Intrigas, Amor, Crime. Estes são os factores principais que fazem de um livro policial realmente um livro POLICIAL. Apesar de ser um livro muito grande (versão portuguesa: +750 páginas) não se torna chato, pelo contrário cada vez fica melhor.O final é surpreendente e algo que não esperava de todo (não me refiro ao raptor, pois à medida que a história ia passando consegui já suspeitar "dele"/"deles")Thanks Tami Hoag for this great book. (Loves from Portugal)
It was "okay" but there was too much information without a real ending.
I have to read another book to see what is going on?
Seems like 400+ pages were development and the last few pages was the real quick "ending." Also, why do characters have to fall in love and get engaged/married so quick?
The timeframe here was a few weeks and at the end of that the characters were engaged without really knowing anything about each other.
It's okay Tami Hoag, they could have kept dating and it really wouldn't of taken away from this dull reading experience.
