https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/366524.Call_It_Sleep
But reading him gave me the same feelings the coffee shop manager has towards Phoebe's singing in Friends -"Don't you like Phoebe's singing?""I'm not saying she's bad, but she makes me want to stick my fingers through my eyes into my brain and swirl them round...
But surely you could find little tiny hints of it occasionally, maybe some rich guy dropped a bit of fun on the street.
Maybe we should create a goodreads Miseryometer for this kind of book - Angela's Ashes could be the gold standard.
I just like a glimpse of one cheeky little donkey now and then.
And he finds himself standing on the threshold of the hostile, inimical and indifferent world.“Relieved by slight flurries in traffic from his father’s smouldering eye, David stared unhappily at the houses gliding past the doorway.
Sitting next to him, David’s one concern had been how to ingratiate himself, how to keep Leo amused, keep him from remembering that time was passing.”But instead of finding friendship David finds himself being used so there are no restrictions to his despair…Children are like litmus paper – they at once react to all family troubles and they suffer most.
Sleepovers were times of reckless abandonment for me, and by reckless abandonment I mean watching Ferris Bueller's Day Off without permission (it wouldn't have been granted anyhow) and swimming in neighborhood pools full of boys past dark and thinking that maybe, if I was lucky, sin would present itself.
Coming up for a deep breath of glorious air after trying to talk to my friend through the chlorinated water, I'd see things poolside through kaleidoscope vision.
The boy has a category for his father- stark, severe, brutal.
Once I finally was able to deal with the long sections written in dialect form (something I find very difficult to read), deal with the interspersed writings in Yiddish as well as other languages (also written in a dialect-a double whammy), I discovered an amazing novel.A breathtaking, horrifying, gorgeous novel: poem, journalism, stream of conscious, realist, psychological, social-impossible to define.
The story is told in 3 styles: the straightforward English style being the parts where people are speaking Yiddish, the phonetic dialect parts to supposedly show how difficult it is for immigrants to understand English and stream-of-consciousness style of David's thoughts (a child's thoughts).
This is his story of life in the Lower East Side of New York.
A book told through his eyes, at his age, isn't riveting.
Quite honestly, there isn't a story here; just a kid's life in New York.
Pleasant enough in some ways but with no plot, no story, no ending.....just 3 years of a kid's life.
All the beauty of Joyce with none of his pretension, accessible and poetic, spiritual and religious. By far my most intense reading experience.
He is close to his mother, perhaps abnormally close, and for as close as he is to Genya he is just as removed from his father.Some readers may be turned off by the fact that this book has 448 pages and is primarily entirely about David's experiences to assimilate to his environment - his struggles to be understood by his neighbors, his strong desire to be accepted by his peers, etc.
I do not and will not hide the fact that I dislike what I have read by Joyce, and any comparison to his writing could easily turn me off from something else.
This book is incredible - I've never read anything like it.
This book is completely original, intensely personal, and very disturbing.
- though those things, or at least close relatives of those things, do happen), but because, for the 400 or so pages of the book, you're made to look at the world in such a strange and horrifying way, and this view of the world seems so real, like it couldn't possibly have been invented by some author experimenting with "character" and "style" - meaning that somewhere, out there, there is someone for whom this is real life.
David is a young boy and we witness through his eyes the process of integrating and assimilating into this new world with others who have traveled here from other parts of the world.
I know, for me, much of the symbolism has escaped my limited cranial capacity.
As one might guess, there are relatives, and parents, and neighbors and all the havoc you would expect if you were to come here during this period, go through the intimidating agency on Ellis Island, and decide to live near Manhattan.This author, who many may not have heard of previously, Henry Roth, is no slouch.
An elegant, pre-adolescent Bildungsroman of sorts, a sort of urban-poetic mural of artistic perception and familial love. While reading Call It Sleep, I had the feeling of being in the presence of the most unassuming literary genius I'd never heard much about. Though the linguistic characteristics are fairly interesting, it's the wholly authentic rendering of David's inner struggles and the portrayal of mother-son love that make the book great.Thanks, Will!
Probably the best immigrant novel ever written.
Finally done with this horrendous book! It was so long, and practically nothing happened in it. The main character is a whiny, snivelling, cowardly little boy who goes around living in fear. The awful dialogue throughout the book is both excessive and confusing, and David's stream-of-consciousness internal monologues are extremely irritating. It's over 400 pages of insufferable pain, and at the end, nothing really happens. Nothing is resolved. One of the worst books I've ever read.
Memo to Saul Bellow THIS is how you write an American Jewish novel.
Joking aside, and with little in the way of preamble, please allow me to say that this truly is an opus of the rarest kind.
I could write volumes more in laudatory verbiage but just, please, read this book if ever you've wondered about the truth of the immigrant experience in general, and the Jewish Ashkenaic American Exile in particular, it brings tears of alternating despair and joy, like the average life, I guess.
Detinjstvo ume da bude najmučnije životno doba, prepuno groznih i nejasnih (ili pak odviše jasnih) strahova, i ova je knjiga cela o tome. Tok svesti malog i permanentno zastrašenog deteta, plus sirotinjski kvartovi kao u"Bilo jednom u Americi", plus dijalozi nemilosrdno preneti uz sva moguća jezička odstupanja friških imigranata: teško, sporo i tegobno čitanje uz pokoji prosev svetlosti tu i tamo.
Violenza e paura generate dal senso di colpa che ognuno di loro si trascina da tempo, come segreto, con sé, e che il Piccolo David si troverà infine ad accogliere sulle proprie spalle, ad accrescere quello per i suoi piccoli-grandi peccati (legati perlopiù alla scoperta della altrui sessualità ed alla paura della propria), fino a renderlo insostenibile e a tentare di liberarsene attraverso la possibilità di ripetere quell’esplosione di luce divina cui solo il Profeta Elia ebbe il privilegio di assistere, e cercandola in un cortocircuito tra le rotaie del tram.
This sounds terribly vulgar, but I just couldn't get over Roth's ham-fisted attempts to transliterate New York street-kid English to the written page.
But the bulk of the story was simply pleasant, honest, and unexceptional.And then the ending, holy crap.
Suddenly, Roth takes flight on this bizarre modernist experiment, and it is the absolute most appropriate way to tell the story he's trying to tell.
There's a sort of comedown from the high of the ending, and I finished the book exhilarated, but I wasn't sure, really, how I felt about the 400 pages that preceded that ending.
Re-reading -- for the nintieth time.
With remarkable control over language and an intuitive instinct for rhythm and sound, Roth presents life through the eyes of a young Jewish immigrant.
When David, the boy, is with his mother in the sanctuary of their home, the language is melodic and harmonious.
When outside, interacting with others, the language becomes more chaotic, stressful, and ultimately jarring.
Using voice, Roth presents all sides of a character.
The mother, when with David, speaks poetically, flawlessly.
A quarter of the way through, you watch her interact with an American police officer--speaking in jarring English and incapable of generating any real understanding of the situation.
I started reading this nearly six weeks ago, (For comparison, Delaney’s Dhalgren only took me three.) and I think--buddy reads notwithstanding--this is the longest I’ve ever spent on a work of fiction.Call it Sleep is the story of the young David Schearl, an immigrant Polish Jew on the Lower East Side of NYC between 1911 and 1913.
While intellectually fascinating, and an ingenious way of distancing the reader from their own native tongue, it made for a frustrating reading experience; any time that David was out and about the text ran something like this:“G’wan tell ‘im,” someone urged.
The cover says, "One of the few genuinely distinguished novels written by a 20th-century American." (What does that even mean.) Pero lo siento, I think that Faulkner > Henry Roth.Call It Sleep is a lot of gorgeous writing in an incredibly drawn-out narrative with no sense of pacing.
(BTW, the ending = X-treme experimental prose-poetry that seemed intentionally confusing and therefore made me angry.)The plot is wrapped around questions of Jewishness in the New World + sexual guilt/awakening.
In Call It Sleep the broken Yiddish-English and street lingo complete the reader's immersion in young David Schearl's world.As a recent immigrant, David's journey from innocence to experience is a vivid one.
He plays in the street with children who often target him for ridicule and even violence.
He is lured into a closet to "play bad" with a neighbor girl, foreshadowing a later encounter with an older boy who wants to do something similar with one of his girl cousins.
The dialogue of the street and barroom denizens who find him, with its obscenity and brutality, are the culmination of the novel's power.
I decided to read this book when I found it on several lists of modern classics, and I'd never heard of it before.
Call It Sleep  seemed to me to have three different styles of narration: first, the direct description of the boy David's experience in his home, written in plain, excellent prose that captures the depths of his love for his mother and his fear of his father.
Second is the immigrant child's life on the streets, written in phonetically rendered dialect that made me want to bang my head on a wall.
Heavy dialect is hardly used anymore, and this book makes it clear why.
People like this book for all kinds of reasons. Most important to me has always been that Roth is really good at rendering what it's like to be a scared kid, especially how painful it is to become aware of things one was happier not knowing.
revelatory when i read it, not sure now as it was so long ago, but twenty years ago it was one of the greatest novels ever written to me
Nach Osten, Vienna, Cescky Crumlov, Brno, Bratislava, Budapest, Cracovia, Praga, Trieste (saltando Berlino perchè in 20 giorni la quantità di cose belle e nuove che si possono vedere ha un limite, in me) in compagnia di un bambino polacco ebreo che vede le cose e fa sogni strani.
In mezzo a campi di concentramento, cimiteri ebraici, sinagoghe, ghetti e atrocità varie.
Se ne respira l'aria però, la mentalità, la povertà (la vetrina del supermercato di Cracovia con in esposizione solo rotoli di carta igienica) ad ogni angolo.
La ricerca di Mauthausen porta via una giornata, visto che non ci sono cartelli da nessuna parte e solo seguendo quelli del Krieg-zimiter ci si arriva.
Poor young David is an only child on the Lower East Side a bit more than one hundred years ago. His life is laid bare in this tale. Descriptions and lots of dialog describe the Jewish culture at this time. Somewhat dull, and very long.
I do not award five stars to any books lightly, but this marvelous evocation of early-20th century New York through the eyes of a young immigrant boy easily earns this rating.Davy emigrates from Eastern Europe as a child.
In this mix, Davy tries to make sense of life in New York City, shuttling between the rough-and-tumble of his street companions and the emotional welter of his family.One of the most brilliant aspects of the book is Roth's use of language.
While some of the writing is gorgeous, I found much of the book unreadable and often felt like tearing out page after page of the idiomatic dialogue which, I had to read out loud to get any sense of what was going on.
And then realizing that knowing what was being said didn't really matter in the end.
I mean how many of these little asides did one need to get a sense of what this child and his family were about.
And in the end did we really know them?
Needed a good editor.....
In Call It Sleep, David Schearl, the son of Eastern European Jewish immigrants, straddles between his Yiddish background and the American culture.
It is the essential immigrant experience, to straddle between two cultures, to struggle with identity, and ultimately to reconcile and integrate the two into a new creation.
Often, second and third generations move to more affluent neighborhoods, but this place remains “ground zero” for the dynamics of cultural synthesis.
Henry Roth in Call It Sleep gives a glimpse of that cultural dynamics for the Jewish community.
An essential novel for the immigrant experience.
Call it mind-numbing and uncomfortable to read.
David is a frightened, bewildered nearly eight year old child of Jewish immigrants.
He lives in the noisy, often brutal East Side of New York in the early 1900s.
He is physically and emotionally abused by his father, peers, step cousins and even his rabbi.
Long passages of Yiddish, Hebrew and local dialect are hard to decipher at times.
David's inner turmoil is portrayed in stream of conscious style which is equally draining.
Roth, however, wrote poetic, beautifully descriptive passages also and, in my opinion, weren't nearly numerous enough.
This is Roth's only novel and was published in the 1930s.
