https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/317783.Bright_Orange_for_the_Shroud
It is a desperation you feel from almost everyone throughout the narrative of Bright Orange for the Shroud — Arthur, Vivian Crane and the alcoholic husband she still loves, even Chook; her involvement with Arthur on the Busted Flush brings to the surface problems she’s been unwilling to face.There is Stebber and others that McGee must make his way through in an effort to get the money back — if he can find it, and if he can stay alive while doing so.
The cringe worthy, cave man sexism (McGee as sex machine) and condescending interactions with minorities (McGee as, Abe Lincoln, brother to all mankind) are kept to a minimum.Here it’s Travis McGee, recent graduate of the Rich Little School of Mimicry and Travis McGee crafty manipulator of school officials.
It’s got a first-rate slime ball villain in Boone Waxwell, the anachronisms are at a minimum and the story line is engaging.
MacDonald is a good writer and it is easy to see how he has gotten props from authors like Stephen King, Kurt Vonnegut and Carl Hiaasen.* I have no idea what this means either.
The sixth book in the Travis McGee series involves Travis once again helping an old friend, this time to recover a quarter million dollars that has been taken from him as well as the man’s dignity.
Just when McGee is planning on having himself a “slob summer” meaning lots of partying and over-indulgence, his old friend Arthur Wilkinson visits him on board his houseboat, the “Busted Flush”.
With the assistance of Arthur’s old girlfriend, Chookie McCall (a bit character from the very first novel, The Deep Blue Good-Bye) the trio plans an elaborate reverse con on the con artists.This novel is generally regarded as one of the better Travis McGee entries, and rightly so.
MacDonald, Bright Orange for the ShroudThis is the first Travis Mcee novel I've read where I didnt' feel the need to reserve a star because his writing about women & sex was so aweful.
Every Travis McGee novel makes me imagine Burt Reynolds spanking some bikini wearing eye candy in some movie about cars, boats, or horses.
The billions upon billions of lives which have come and gone, and that small fraction now walking the world, came of this life-pulse, and to deny it dignity would be to diminish the blood and need and purpose of the race, make us all bawdy clowns, thrusting and bumping away in a ludicrous heat, shamed by our own instinct.
When I first read the Travis McGee books during my high school years in the ‘80s, I thought they were pretty bad-ass crime stories, but that the early ones from the ‘60s were a little dated.
Re-reading the McGee books now makes me realize that they are VERY dated in a lot of ways, but that MacDonald was way ahead of the curve on some issues.
But when Chookie demands that McGee help Arthur recover his money and his self-esteem, they start running their own scam on the people that fleeced Arthur.
My third read of the Travis McGee series and I'm paying particular attention to how Travis relates to women.
My interest is due to a nice conversation I had a few months ago as to whether Travis treated women well, took advantage of them and/or was a misogynist.
was a non-stop read from beginning to end and in my mind, the touchstone of the entire series.
The quintessential Travis McGee with all the elements found in the best of the series.
Ok, one answer might be that I'm reading more carefully with more thought.
Last read, about seven years ago, gave it four stars.
Snappy, fast-paced, and maddening setup that had me itching for him to get after this particular "salvage project," and once he did, there was just a certain economy to the plotting that kept this one perfectly paced throughout.There's always a moment, after McGee's begun digging around and located a few of the dishonest parties, when he suddenly becomes known and gets onto the radar of the most dangerous person in that particular book.
It's always slightly horrifying, having read a few of these, because you know he's going to be prowling around and thinking he's still out in front of everyone, but the positions will have shifted just enough that something is going to come flying around a corner or sneaking up behind him and it's one of the things that makes these books so spectacular.

At the end of this sixth entry, McGee turns away a woman who shows up, with luggage, at his boat.
McGee then turns to his boat for, as MacDonald tells us, "solace".
MacDonald goes on to write, " I [McGee] went below, slapped a wrench on a nut, put my back into it...".
Another reviewer here on goodreads points out that in this book, McGee has no "female encounters" which to me enhances the above remarks.
Macdonald doesn't take his writing too seriously, he just has a good time, and that's part of the appeal of his work.
With the assistance of Chooke, a dancer who had previously dated Arthur, McGee agrees to try and help.
While Chooke works to build up Arthur's spirit again, they set off to try and get Arthur's money back.That's the basic story, but it has an edgy darkness to it.
Other people were involved in the scam but Boone becomes the focus and he is someone you don't ever want to meet.McGee plan to recover the money is not without danger and the story begins to get under your skin, in a creepy, dangerous way.
As I am beginning to expect with this series, this isn't really a mystery.
Travis McGee is a 1960s version of the gang in the TV show "Leverage", only he works mostly alone and without all the cool gadgets.
In this entry of the series, McGee doesn't get a romantic interest but that is OK as it is taken up by the client and a dancer friend of McGee's.
If you like suspense/thrillers and don't mind a high body count, this McGee novel might appeal.
It was less dated than some of the previous books in the series and had less snide social-commentary.
Another excellent book in the Travis McGee series by John D. MacDonald. He helps some friends recover some money from a ruthless man who shoots McGee at the end in the head and almost kills him. I don't see how McGee walks away from this one.
Never thought I'd read a Travis McGee book where Travis McGee didn't get any ass. But there it is.
This is my favorite thus-far in my historically ordered re-reading of the McGee novels.
He risks expenses which come off the top of any recovery and the balance is split 50/50.This particular romp gets us to know Chook even better, has McGee in an array of unlikely adventures across Florida and had a particularly spectacular villain.
These first novels don't strongly introduce my favorite character but for McGee himself, Meyer.
Knowing what comes before isn't particularly important, and this novel is still early enough that you get a sense of young McGee. If you like this one, you might go back and start at the beginning.
Finally, in the sixth book of the series, I get my wish: Travis McGee sleeps with no women (After some space, I'll appreciate it more when he does connect with a lady). And he has a female friend who helps him: Chook McCall, who appeared in the first book. Further proof that Travis is not sexist. This was good, and interesting, but it got dark near the end, with violence and some very disturbing rape.
This title is a real winner in the Travis McGee mystery series. One of the things I like is Travis kept his curmudgeonly moralizing to a minimum. The story takes several unexpected twists, and Travis gets tough when he needs to get he and his friends out of a tense jam. I'll look forward to reading my next Travis McGee.
John MacDonald wrote twenty-one Travis McGee novels before he died unexpectedly in 1986.
These stories were written between 1964 and 1985, so they will seem dated to most....the days before computers, cell phones, internet...
But the plots and the people can still be current today.
True, the attitudes toward women may sometimes be from the past, but the latest news shows us that some people haven't changed so much.
In these stories, we meet bad people and good people.
Travis tries to help the good ones who have been victims of those bad ones.
MacDonald writes very well.
When Arthur, a casual acquaintance of McGee, is swindled out of his fortune by an unscrupulous wife and a small group of real estate scam artists and then beaten senseless by one of them, McGee goes on a "salvage and recovery" operation to reclaim the money.
I expected a plot where McGee turns the tables on the whole group of con artists, but a different plot line develops.
It is these turns in the plot (some of them sudden swerves) that I enjoy in MacDonald's writing.
There is less of MacDonald/McGee's cynical world view than in some of previous books, which helps keep some focus.
His job was salvage and demolition, and whenever the right job comes along he bids in it, rent the equipment, subcontract everything.
He comes with a low project percentage that's big enough to live well until the next chances opens up..........and that's how 'Travis McGee' lives his life.McGee was trying to help an old friend Arthur Wilkinson who was defraud out of his half-million money through a land syndicate operation.
But first Travis has to penetrate the swamps of the Everglades to get the extreme con man Boone Maxwell knowns as 'Boo' to earn his payment, and help recover his friend's ruin life.

McDonald's sixth Travis McGee, the semi-retired salvage consultant is probably more of a three and half star read for me. But, even when it's not his best story I've read *I've read the first five* his tales from the 60's and his style, with it's atomsphere are still an entertaining read.And, to hear him tell of his feelings of Florida in decline,over-building almost fifty years ago, puts a smile on your face. Wondering what he would think today.
My favorite McGee since the Deep Blue Goodbye. The series remains a bit dated but I'm able to place myself into the period of writing easy enough. I don't know why I always picture Chevy Chase as Fletch when McGee is doing his "in disguise" business. The crime and recover efforts were fun and believable enough. Top notch villains (not fun). A very enjoyable McGee entry.
At the moment John D. MacDonald is my literary palate cleanser. I think every serious reader should have one.
I love the Travis McGee series. reread them ever so often.
Very interesting writing style. I enjoyed it a lot more than I thought I would, though it deals with some tough subjects, especially (view spoiler)[sexual assault (hide spoiler)].
I've been reading through the Travis McGee series this month with Bright Orange for the Shroud being the 6th in the series. It's one of the better books in the series with 4 & 5 also being very good. This time around McGee is looking into a fraudulent scam that conned a rich retiree out of their life savings. Plenty of action and quite the thrill ride, whilst not as complex as A Deadly Shade of Gold it was still good.
This is very good writing.I decided to try John D.
MacDonald after reading and listening to (via youtube) several writers state that John D.
MacDonald was one of this country's greatest writers of fiction (of any kind).
Although he is most known for the mystery pulp fictions he cranked out (including Cape Fear), I learned that writers of other types of fiction considered him one of the best.I have to agree.
The writing is insightful, witty, and clear, and the characters are well-done.
I'm not normally a mystery reader, but enjoyed this book -- one of about 20 he wrote for his character Travis McGee.A good mystery yarn set in Florida.
I will read more of MacDonald.
A ClassicI have read stacks of John D McDonald novels. After many years, it is fun to pick up the series again. The writing is strong and smart and the plot riveting.This particular book was a little grittier than most, so I gave it 3 stars instead of 4 stars.
This is about a really big con and no girl for Trav !! It was a good enough read but sensed a little downer in how John MacDonald saw things
These novels have a relaxed pace that takes some getting used to.Reading these Travis McGee books is more like listening to a guy on a boat on a lazy afternoon spin his yarn.
He bemoans the fact that modern American cities are designed for cars not people, not even Ybor City which is being converted into some fake New Orleans.In "Bright Orange For The Shroud," McGee is planning a lazy summer, getting by on the few bucks he has, when Arthur Wilkinson stumbles onto his boat.
