https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30933.Brideshead_Revisited
In the words of The Shangri-Las, "and that's called...bad".3) this book is a love song to wealth and class, and as an only slightly reconstructed old class warrior, I was sailing on queasy seas, but could not help enjoying Waugh's tremendous atmospheric prose and beautiful dialogue.
In the words of The Shangri-Las, "and that's called...glad".4) This book presents us with one of my least favourite types of characters, the doomed agonised male with whom we are supposed to agonise along with and swoon over and indeed love.
In the words of The Shangri-Las, "and that's called...sad".5) This book appears to endorse some extraordinary behaviour.
I personally think they have repeated sex, the references to their love for each other, the moments of nudity, and the open discussions of homosexuality are too numerous to ignore.However, as Charles becomes more and more entrenched with the Flyte family, Sebastian grows bitter and drinks more.
But it’s also the thing that dooms Charles’ relationship with the family.The mother, Lady Marchmain Flyte, is very pious – separated from her philandering husband (who lives with his mistress in Italy), but refusing to divorce the man for her Catholic beliefs.
"Brideshead Revisited" is almost the opposite of "Vile Bodies"/"Bright Young Things" in that it starts off as a tragedy, or at least pretty damn close to E.
I practically ignored most of Seattle as I read a paperback version of this brilliant book.It begins and ends at completely different sides of the spectrum: the Oxford years seem idyllic and maudlin, the protagonist has not yet been completely corrupted, though we do become witness to that voyage.
He does completely nothing to stop the decay around him which culminates, just as in "Vile Bodies", in WW2.
Our narrator, a non-Catholic officer based on the home front in World War II Britain, revisits a mansion he first visited as a young man and reflects back on his close relationship with a Catholic family.
A non-Catholic himself, he reports to us about their habits and customs almost as if he were an anthropologist visiting a tribe in the tropical rainforest.
Not only are Catholics a minority in Britain, but the Anglican Church is the official state-sponsored religion.
It's a great book and, of course, it's been made into a Masterpiece Theater series years ago.
Best of all, the flat characters that drown their passions in meaningless prattle, the obvious distinctions between when the author is droning out plot and when he is attempting to convey themes and meaning, the constant hints at powerful emotions of religious suffering, cultural decay, and sexual deviancy?
But it could have been so much more, and the fact that it isn't is a tragedy in itself.Back when I was still feeling angry with the story, I considered not reading the rest of the author's works that I have added.
I was caught up in each person — I felt Charles' yearning, I understood Sebastian's angst, I admired Julia's sass, and I pitied Lady Marchmain's self-righteousness.There is so much brilliant writing in this novel.
If you like audio books, I highly recommend seeking out that version.One of my goals is to read more modern classics, and the richness of this novel shows it is definitely worth the effort.Favorite Quotes“I should like to bury something precious in every place where I've been happy and then, when I'm old and ugly and miserable, I could come back and dig it up and remember.” “If you asked me now who I am, the only answer I could give with any certainty would be my name.
Not only were the schools (at least, the sort that Charles and Sebastian attended) single-sex, so were the colleges at university.
And of course there weren't many scholarship boys to broaden the social mix.HOMOSEXUALITYWhen I first read the book as a naive teenager, I thought the book was somewhat ambiguous about Charles and Sebastian's relationship.
As an adult, I have no doubt that it was sexual, but that although Sebastian is gay, Charles is towards the straight end of bisexual: his attraction, nay obsession, is more with the Marchmain family than any individual member of it.
Naked male friends sunbathing may seem very gay nowadays, but was less so for Charles and Sebastian in Oxford.
The pacing is strange, but it’s hinted at in the subtitle: “The Sacred & Profane Memories of Captain Charles Ryder.” Memories are sporadic, apt to be uncomprehensive, subjective.Ryder, an officer (“homeless, childless, middle-aged and loveless”), is stationed at the magnificent Brideshead estate, and looks back on how his life has intertwined with many of its members – first the fey, teddy bear-clutching Sebastian, at Oxford, and then, later, with Sebastian’s sister Julia.The family is presided over by the understated but quietly manipulative Lady Marchmain – a terrifying portrait – and gradually Charles learns about all the skeletons rattling away in the family’s enormous closets.
It follows here:“The most nostalgic and reflective of Evelyn Waugh's novels, Brideshead Revisited looks back to the golden age before the Second World War. It tells the story of Charles Ryder's infatuation with the Marchmains and the rapidly-disappearing world of privilege they inhabit.
If a reader compares where the characters start and where they finish, one sees that the author’s personal views have clearly dictated how the story should end.
I can look at the plot-line and say the author pushes his own views a bit too far, but despite this, the passage from start to finish, with its mix of serious and funny, was always enjoyable, and I was never bored.
If you asked me now who I am, the only answer I could give with any certainty would be my name.
For the rest: my loves, my hates, down even to my deepest desires, I can no longer say whether these emotions are my own, or stolen from those I once so desperately wished to be.
Perhaps all our loves are merely hints and symbols; vagabond-language scrawled on gate-posts and paving-stones along the weary road that others have tramped before us; perhaps you and I are types and this sadness which sometimes falls between us springs from disappointment in our search, each straining through and beyond the other, snatching a glimpse now and then of the shadow which turns the corner always a pace or two ahead of us.
'"Light one for me, would you?"It was the first time in my life that anyone had asked this of me, and as I took the cigarette from my lips and put it in hers, I caught a thin bat's squeak of sexuality, inaudible to anyone but me.'This book hit me, hard.
I read it for a course in 'Catholic Literature' which was an excuse for my favorite professor to teach a small group of students about his all-time favorite books.
He made up the name so he could teach it as a theology/literature course.
Brideshead is one of the great locations in literature and, like Manderley in Rebecca, the main character in the book.This isn't how it looked in my head but it is the exact estate Waugh had in mindTop Ten Fictional Locations10.
The Great Green RoomAnd like Nick Carraway from The Great Gatsby, Charles Ryder is one of the great passive narrators, an outsider, an infiltrator.
I was making my first entry as the freeholder of a property I would enjoy and develop at my leisure.Don't think Waugh doesn't know what he's doing, giving you literary whiplash like this.
This is Waugh's Great Novel, in which he abandoned (mostly) his usual bloody satire and got down to business.
The purity of the emotion -- emotion treated in isolation and confinement -- sets forth on the pages of Brideshead Revisited one of the most moving of connections between two characters in Anglo-American fiction.What ties them together remains steadfast -- through Sebastian's fits and turns, and through Charles' transparent efforts to lead, because he cannot have Sebastian, Sebastian's life.The effect of Waugh's writing is detailed above.
At a minimum.If that were not sufficient testament to the greatness of this novel, Sebastian's childlike affection for his teddy bear Aloysius is a clever and, frankly, odd plot insertion, the delight of which is, by my mind, unparalleled in Anglo-American fiction.Brideshead Revisited is a masterpiece.
The beginning of the book has quite a bit of high Romanticism, of a style more appropriate to the 1840s than the post WWII era- to the point where its utter cheesiness seems out of place, which often gives way to Madox Ford type of prose- unobtrusive, mild, wiltingly despairing, Lost Generation feelings.
Obviously the choice of styles illustrates the journey of the main character/the main Flyte family through the novel, but I thought it was also an interesting way of encapsulating popular styles of writing that prevailed at the time, particularly in Britain in the interwar era.
Since I first read it, Evelyn Waugh's masterpiece Brideshead Revisited has unequivocally been my favorite book. It's haunting, melancholy, ironically humorous swan song to all that is elegant and beautiful and pure in this world captivated me. It echoed in eloquent, lucid, and devastatingly satiric paragraphs my firm conviction that true Beauty and Love and even God Himself exist not far beyond the pale glitter of a heartless, selfish, utterly apathetic and drear world. It is an ode to the idealism of youth narrated by the voice of a cynical middle-aged man. It is poetry.
Disclaimer: The views expressed hereafter by Mr. God's-Love concerning Evelyn Waugh's novel are exclusively his own and should not be interpreted as a disguised or fictionalized representation of my own views.
I had not laid eyes upon Mr. God's-Love since the Winter Solstice festivities, when we supped on dainty fried gristle fingerlings and pickled chestnuts under the most silvery and garish moonlight in which I can ever recall bathing my erect nipples.
'Good heavens!' said I, quivering and crumpling like an iced hooker.
Mr. God's Love!'     'Yup,' said he.
I have only just this very moment finished Evelyn Waugh's Brideshead Revisited.
But Mr. God's-Love, an extremist in the most moderate sense of the term, would have none of it.

On re-reading the book, I discovered that take on the story, the characters, the writing, or the ideas put forth in the book has changed a little.It was easier to engage with the book now that I have read other books by Waugh and his contemporaries, but at the same time I also found it way more tedious to slog through the last part of the book.
At that, for a religious faith which seems to have arrived out of the blue...and with that I also had little patience for Waugh's religious philosophising, which I am sure some readers may see as the essence of quality in this story.
Two totally separate, virtually unrelated books with over-the-top narration and no arc.
The narrator/main character is almost unrecognizable from one to the other, and no real explanation is given.
His main obsession in the first book is almost entirely and perfunctorily absent from the second, and vice versa with his obsession from the second.The writing is laughably intense and painfully overworked.
Maybe his ability to make his characters change without any explanation or without making the reader care was thought to be one-of-a-kind.Whatever, critics.
On the surface it's a book about two friends, the narrator, Charles Ryder, and his wonderful, but bizarre friend, Lord Sebastian Flyte.
Eventually Charles befriends the entire Flyte family and it's this unusual friendship as well as the other relationships -- as they evolve over the course of many years -- which form the basis of the novel.
Charles, an agnostic, doesn't understand when he meets Sebastian and his diverse family why or how anyone's religion could matter so much but as he comes to know the Flytes and sees how each grapples with his/her faith in a hostile environment, he learns.
“I should like to bury something precious in every place where I've been happy and then, when I was old and ugly and miserable, I could come back and dig it up and remember.” - Evelyn Waugh, Brideshead RevisitedBrideshead Revisited is the memory of a happy place that holds unrelenting charm when time has all but erased the felicity that is bound up in the innocence and exuberance of youth.
Brideshead Revisited is possibly Evelyn Waugh's greatest novel and certainly one of the best English novels of the twentieth century.
The demonstration of the battle between the culture of a civilization dying in the aftermath of World War I and the modern "hollow" culture of the the twentieth century plays out in this drama of a family and their estate, Brideshead.
Rather than bias the reader I will not provide a conclusion or even hint where I come out with regard to Charles life other than to suggest that, as Eliot once said with poetic grace, the end is there in the beginning.If you like magnificent writing, biting wit, England (Oxford in particular) or Venice, or the serene beauty of traditional manners you will love this book
An absorbing and sumptuous eulogy for the end of the golden age of the British aristocracy.
I have read most of Evelyn Waugh's novels and this is his finest*.
If you haven't read it yet I envy you.*EDIT: Sword of Honour runs it a very close second.
I also heartily recommend reading Mad World: Evelyn Waugh and the Secrets of Brideshead by Paula Byrne which gives lots of helpful background information about Brideshead Revisited.
I was amazed at the extent to which it was based on Evelyn Waugh's own experiences and those of people he knew.
Click here to read my review
4 1/2 * I still can recall watching the original Brideshead on Masterpiece Theater, along with most of my friends at the time.
Being enthralled with the actors, performances and story.
Now I've finally read the book behind that performance and am not at all disappointed.
As I settled in to read, I was immediately struck by the language, the period phrasing and speech, and became a bit doubtful as to whether I was actually going to enjoy this book.
However, doubt disappeared very quickly each time I resumed reading.
That's what good reading is about and why some books become classics.
BRIDESHEAD REVISITEDThere was once a noble house called BridesheadOf sacred and profane memoriesSeat
The writing was rather superb, but good writing does not mean that the characters are likeable or the plot is anything substantial.
These days, it just feels like regurgitated rubbish.I enjoyed Brideshead (the building) far more than I did the characters and plot: I felt much about Brideshead the same way I did about Manderlay in Rebecca.
I greatly enjoy a book where the location or setting (or in this case, a building) almost becomes a character, though I do think more could have been done with the building itself and I felt like we barely scratched the surface in terms of description.
«Mio tema è la memoria, ospite alata (...) Questi ricordi, che sono la mia vita - poiché nulla possediamo con certezza tranne il passato - non mi hanno mai lasciato.
Marco erano ovunque, in mezzo ai piedi, da soli, a coppie...» I romanzi sono come gli abiti che proviamo a indossare: ve ne sono alcuni che ci si attagliano all'istante; ci piace come vestono, come "cadono", e troviamo eleganti, originali su di noi, i loro piccoli difetti.
Qui ho trovato il garbo, quella calma anglosassone che a me appare rispettosa anziché fredda.
Modernità assoluta (non solo per il tempo in cui fu scritto).
Afferma senza dire.
“My theme is memory, that winged host.” There’s a haunting elegiac beauty to this novel which maybe makes it seem a little better than it really is.
The writing is gorgeous, especially when Waugh is dealing with the passing of time.
He’s rather like the English Fitzgerald in this book – the nostalgia for youth and high emotion, the mourning an era which he beautifully romanticises and painting what follows as grey and turgid.
Socially it’s an extremely conservative novel.
Waugh does not like change but it’s this stubborn conservatism that allows him to create such a powerful atmosphere of heartbreaking nostalgia.
‘Brideshead Revisited’ is the story of Charles Ryder and his relationship with the aristocratic Flyte family; the whimsical yet troubled Sebastian, the glacial and remote Julia and the austere older brother Bridey.
The novel in many ways reflects Charles’s eventual vocation as a (utterly mediocre) painter of aristocratic buildings and domiciles which will soon be consigned to the vestiges of history, so Charles attempts to capture the fading aristocracy before their inevitable decline.
He's one of those writers who makes the English language sound decadent and beautiful.It definitely contains the single best passage about food that I've ever seen - the scene with Charles Ryder and Rex Mottram eating pressed duck and caviar blinis in a little restaurant in London.
The stilted, repressed love story between Charles and the corrupt, gorgeous, alcoholic Sebastian.
Charles, coming from such a grim, ugly family and dull background, stumbling on a different world, so glamorous and beautiful and mysterious, like Avalon, and losing it again, and pining for it for the rest of his repressed, dull British life.
It's a heartbreaking, beautiful, strangely existential book, and I love it.
