https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18723.Brick_Lane
I made myself read this book everyday so I could be done with it and properly hate it.Look at what the NY Review of Books said:"Ali succeeds brilliantly in presenting the besieged humanity of people living hard, little-known lives on the margins of a rich, self-absorbed society."WHO IS THIS CRAZY NUT?
You need to read a book like Brick Lane to understand "besieged humanity" or what it's like to live a "hard, little-known" life?
If you've started reading the book, you will understand what I mean.
If we can view Nazneen's life through grammatically correct English, why can't we understand Hasina in something gramatically correct?
Other reviews would have you believe that this book is terrifically boring, beaten only for tediousness by Some Variations in the Major Groups of Plankton of the Kamchatka Peninsula Littoral by R.K. Litkynshovskaya and P.I. Podgorna-Bialaczczka.
It's very true I do love the music of Steve Reich, which could never be described as dramatic, and indeed has often been compared to Some Variations in the Major Groups of Plankton of the Kamchatka Peninsula Littoral.
Of course it may be true that should Monica Ali choose to write a graceful and compassionate novel about any of that rabble, I'd be glued to that too.
I would have to force myself to finish reading this book and quite frankly I don't want to. Neither like nor care what happens to these characters.
I thought this book was really interesting as it gave an insight into being an immigrant in England and it also gave insights into life in Bangladesh.
Of course, Monica Ali has been scrutinised because she doesn't speak fluent Bangladeshi etc and I know nothing about the being an immigrant myself but I felt like the representation she gave felt really authentic.
They weren't just devices to the main character, in fact, I would say Nazneen was sort of like a device for them to be portrayed.
I feel like Nazneen was the way she was because Ali wanted her that way.
You really feel like you've learned a lot about what it means to be a Blangladeshi immigrant to the UK.However, it does a lot more, namely it urges the reader to think about:* The imposition of passivity on a woman, to the point of making passivity a virtue, something that certainly transcends cultures and limits self-expectations (a theme throughout the book is the main character being left to her Fate at birth)* The experience of any immigrant, and the complex attitudes that the immigrant experience generates both towards the new culture and the old* The deplorable status of women in Bangladesh* The wrenching realization that one is married to an idiot* The nature of marriage itself* The hypocrites that exist in any culture and religion (very ironic that the shameless usurer in the book is named Mrs. Islam)* The way that living in a specific slice of history influences one's opinions and valuesAlthough this book is rather long, the author probably needed the length to address her varied themes.
Don’t ask me what I was expecting because it is not a definable quantity and defies explanation but when I bought this book on a whim because I liked the juxtaposition of white background and colourful printed letters, this was not it.Ali has created a book for those who love the microscopic and want a very detailed picture of a very limited section of space and time.
I wasn’t either but hey, it’s part of the story so it has to go in the review.The cast of characters who are fully fleshed out are fairly limited; Nazneen, her husband Chanu and their two daughters Shahana and Bibi are all well developed -you might find them dull, but that’s another issue.
Monica Ali's prose is the literary equivalent of a curry with too many cardamom seeds.
Rating: 2* of fiveA long succession of standard tropes, cliched dialogue, and stock characters made somehow new and fresh by the fact that they're all of Indian descent.Frankly, I found it lazy and felt the decent author behind the blandness of the book should be given a "D"--not passing, not failing, not much of anything at all. I'll pass on this one's career. Returned to my facility's library shelves, with a slight twinge of guilt for not putting it in the little free library just down the boardwalk instead.
I desperately wanted to like this book.
She's a village girl without education and more importantly, the confidence education brings to a traveller navigating a foreign world.I snacked with her in the dead of night, desperate to fill a void opened when I left my home and all things familiar.
But when she wandered into meeting of revolutionaries looking for acceptance, I stood at the door and wondered whether she had left her brain at home.
I knew how it was going to end early on, but like looking to see what happened in a car crash, I couldn't tear my eyes until the book was over.My time was wasted.
Her younger sister Hasina runs away to marry the young man she is in love with, and not long after that, when she is eighteen, Nazneen is married to a man twenty years older than her and sent to live with him in London.Her husband, Chanu, is kind and very talkative.
To cut the skin around the corns on her husband's feet, to cook and keep the flat tidy, to be Chanu's audience as he lectures, to watch as his plans and ambitions fall flat one by one.The story is told from Nazneen's perspective, sliced through with letters from her sister in Dhaka, whose story is easily more tragic.
Nazneen is born in a village in Bangladesh; when old enough she is married to Chanu, a much older man who lives in England.
There are memorable characters in the Bangladeshi community, each coping with being in a strange culture in different ways; some by blending in others by keeping apart.Nazneen’s husband Chanu turns out to be a decent man (he doesn’t beat her); he wants a simple village girl to look after him and doesn’t allow Nazneen to learn English, as she doesn’t need it.
Brick Lane is also a novel about place and the geographical restriction of Nazneen’s life adds to the power of her character development.
On the other hand is his wife Nazneen, or whom marriage at first is a kind of trap-for all his profession for being a liberal, Chanu represents some of the worst aspects of misogyny of  first generation Bangladeshi immigrants; rarely allowed to leave the house, not given permission to be educated, Nazneen feels trapped in a country she not only cannot, but is not allowed to comprehend.
I think the slowness of the book comes from the passivity of Nazneen, as she doesn’t really do much for much of the first half.
He is tragic, annoying, inspiring, and hilarious all at once, and I really felt for him trying to find an outlet for his passions in a system where he doesn’t feel appreciated!.My favourite parts of the book were the passages describing anecdotes from Nazneen’s childhood in Bangladesh - I wish there were more of them!
I read a full third of this book waiting for the protagonist (Nanzeen) to be interesting and it didn't happen.
It's a book about fate and how one acts as a follower in life.
And the exceedingly slow learning process Nanzeen goes through when she starts to discover she can shape her life and maybe that's not wrong.
Needless to say I didn't identify much with the main character, and reading about her abhorrent life was just too much work for what is meant to be an enjoyable activity.
$9.99 kindleMy favorite quotes from "Brick Lane" by Monica AliAmma said to her daughters: "If God wanted us to ask questions, he would have made us men" (53)."Razia waved the lollipop in front of Raqib's [the toddler's:] face.
He watched it devotedly.
He became its disciple.
For its sake, he would sacrifice everything" (65).Hasina on corruption in Bangladeshi education: "University is also close down.
They rallying for right to cheat.
To be fair all must have mean for equal cheating" (105)."Karim had never even been to Bangladesh.
Karim was born a foreigner.
She saw only what she wanted to see.
Karim did not have his place in the world.
I hated this book. I found it impossible to get through and this at a time when I was utterly obsessed with novels based in and around women from India. I couldn't finish it and am continually surprised to see it so favorably reviewed and praised. Usually I'm in agreement about a great book, but this one I just don't share the feelings on.Although i see that other Good Reads readers felt similiarly, which somehow makes me feel better.
Showing Nazneen's love for her children, her understanding of god and faith, her sister's search for the life she wants...
And I found myself oddly sorry for Chanu, Nazneen's husband who strives and strives to be known as an educated man, and yet never manages to achieve the dreams he has.
His arrogance and inability to see anything beyond his own wishes are so easy to dislike, and yet he fails so many times to become the man he dreams of being that I cannot help but feel for him.
Its a keeper, going on the book shelf to be read again and again.
This book impressed me because of its immersiveness.
But I found the main character of Brick Lane, Nazneen, to be very relatable, to the point where I ended up totally immersed in her story and her perspective.
That was a pretty heart-wrenching experience, honestly, because Nazneen's story is one of disappointment and fear and powerlessness, right up until just before the very end.
This is one of those books which is beautiful, but in which the beauty comes almost totally from sadness.
It doesn't exactly have a happy ending in the fairytale sense, but I was pretty pleased with the way things were left by the final page.
From the very first page of the book, the reader is shown and told that Nazneen is passive, that she was raised to leave things to fate.The problem with the passiveness of the central character is that it can make the book insufferable, you want her to do.
Because of these characters and how they were raised, the reader must puzzle things out because the woman are silent on such issues.
In many ways, the book is about what takes place in silence.Ali could also make Nazneen's husband Chanu into a brute of a man, but she doesn't.
This is a well-told story about Bangladeshi immigrants to England, told from the point of view of a woman, Nazneen, who entered into an arranged marriage with an older man who had been in London for a while.
She wanted to get up from the table and walk out of the door and never see him again.Humor is low key and wry: "The cigarette." It had rolled from the table and was burning on the green-and-purple rug.
Job opportunities opened up.I don't know Brick Lane in London, but there is a sense that this does a good job of capturing Bangladeshi immigrant life there.
Brick Lane chronicles the story of her marriage, her children, the public housing complex she lives in, and her struggle to make sense of her role in a world very different from the one she was raised in.Among the more interesting parts of the book were the outlines of the cultural challenges of Bangladeshis living in England.
As the story progressed, however, I found myself struggling to continue.
If I found myself wishing the protagonist was less passive, I at least understood exactly why she was the way she was, which is more than I've managed with some books.Covering an ambitious span of years - from Nazneen's youth in Bangladesh to early middle-age in the East End of London - Ali's style is absorbing enough that it never feels rushed.
The only thing stopping me giving this a 5 is that I felt like some threads were left dangling, and a few sections dragged a little.That said, I loved the strength of female relationships throughout the story, the way the characters were developed and the way no-one was presented as wholly good or wholly bad.
روايه جيده تحكي عن المجتمع البينغالي الاسيوي في بريطانيا, وتملك الكاتبه الجرأه والخبره لتسرد لنا باقتدار عن هذا المجتمع وتناقضاته بين الانعزال التام عن المجتمع الانجليزي او الانخراط فيه وفقدان الهويه, حكايات مشوقه عن الشباب وعن النساء من اجيال مختلفه, ونجحت الكاتبه في رسم صور حيه لشخوصها متفاعله او منعزله مع المكان الذي تم توصيفه ورسمه جيدا. اصول الكاتبه البنغاليه والانجليزيه ساعدت كثيرا في انجاح هذا العمل الجيد.
A wonderfully written novel about the life of a Bangladeshi woman living as an immigrant in East London.
I really wanted to enjoy this novel but I didn't. However I read it for book club and we did have a wonderful discussion.
The main strength of this book for me, was bringing that world alive.Spanning the eighties to the start of the 21st century (building up, inevitably, to 9/11) this concerns a young Bangladeshi woman who is sent to London to marry an older man.
As such, despite all the passion of the prose, it’s hard to really care about this eternal triangle.For all its good points, the lack of convincing characters to empathise with means that it’s like looking through a window (or into a snow globe, a recurring motif in the book) and being entranced by the world you find there but never fully engaging with it.
July 2010I've been currently reading this since July .
For some reason, I was able to imaginatively immerse myself in the world of the characters in a way that I hadn't on my first (incomplete) reading.
Brilliant characterisation -- particularly of Chanu, the hopeless bore of a husband, and Hasina, the hapless sister whose wretched life in Dhaka provides such fascinating contrast to the main character's London existence.
I found so much descriptive richness and humour that passed me by on the first reading!
The religious/political bits were a bit of a bore, but then Ali means them to be (I think).
I've never felt much compulsion to read Brick Lane but found it on a recent second-hand shop search and picked it up cheap.
I found it difficult to keep my concentration on the story.Immigration and alienation and a clash of cultures pervade as a young bride moves to England from her native Bangladesh in the 80s.
I found Nazneen to be rather dull throughout though her viewpoint drives the story with occasional interludes from her sister (via letters).
I actually felt for him far more than any other character throughout and would go so far to say it's worth reading just for him.
Ignoring the outwardly prejudiced attitude towards Sylhetis by a Dhaka-born writer, Ali chose to further insult the protagonist's culture by allowing the Sylheti community (within the book) to ostensibly reveal these negative stereotypes creating a sense of collective self-hatred.
Another plot hole I found was the "broken English" within her sister's letters - the protagonist moved to England and can only say two words in English but her sister, who did not once leave Bangladesh and experienced an array of upheaval, can write well in English asides from the improper sentence structures?
Certainly there are those today who choose not to marry but to follow a career path, or marry for love with a happy ending - but at least in Monica Ali's tale, that was not the case.It seems a little shocking that today, in the year 2016, arranged marriages still go on.
Fiction about immigrants are all over best selling book shelves: Brooklyn, Brief Wonderful Life, Book of Unknown Americans, Cutting for Stone, Honor, Kite Runner, Little Bee, etc.
I think we gain insight by reading these, and while there is little "action" in Brick Lane, the character study was excellent.
