https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/855919.Island_Magic
This part of the story is one example of the 'magic' Goudge weaves into her novels.
Goudge weaves together the points of view of several of her characters into a story that makes sense, that works.
The charm of her writing is in the descriptive power of Goudge's sense of place: "They came down the last lane on to a flat white road winding across a stretch of common, and in front of them was the sea.
Nowhere else round the Island was the sea quite so blue as it was at L'Autel beach.
Her first book and I think you can tell. It’s has all the ingredients of what makes her books so lovely but she hasn’t quite mastered the art yet... worth reading because it’s Goudge but not quite as gripping as her others... says the critic who has never written anything worth publishing..
André and Rachell du Frocq, with their five children, are barely eeking out a living on a farm called Bon Repos (“Good Rest” or, as I like to translate it, “Sweet Tranquility”), a place that comes with a benediction written on stone outside the farmhouse: Harbour and good rest to those who enter here, courage to those who go forth.
Of course I can’t identify it without giving away part of the story.Rarely—and happily— I come across a sentence, with which I can fully relate, and about something I’ve never before seen in literature.
Island Magic delivered!
You can’t be an individualist on our Island.
People understand unity who live on an island.
The year is 1888 and they live on a run-down farm in the town of St. Pierre, on one of the Channel Islands (between England and the coast of Normandy).
When a shipwrecked man is brought to the island, Rachell immediately takes him in, sensing that somehow he’ll be the solution to their problems.
The man, Ranulph, has spent his whole life refusing to be tied down to anyone or any place yet he finds the du Frocq family hard to resist.
As the story unfolds he finds healing for some of his past hurts and contributes to the welfare of the family in various ways.
The rather lurid cover art and copy on the mass market paperback copy made me hesitate, but I'm glad I added it to my stack to purchase in a used bookshop.
This is the second book by Elizabeth Goudge I've read.
A friend sent Green Dolphin Street to me last year and I was simply enchanted by that story.
This one wasn't as good, but it was still delightful.
I love her interesting characters and her vivid, lush descriptions.
Perhaps a bit old-fashioned, but lovely to immerse yourself in.
Looking forward to reading more of Goudge.
Now Guernsey is at the top of my travel list!
Miss Goudge was a painter of stories and her medium was words. With no other author am I able to "see" scenes so vividly.
I read this novel many years ago and was intrigued by Rachell and Andre du Frocq’s children, each of whom spring to life from the page.
Into the lives of Andre, an unsuccessful farmer, and Rachell, who loves their farm Bon Repos and is determined that bankruptcy will not force them to leave it.
He lodges at Bon Repos causing Rachell and Andre’s lives to be ‘twisted by fate’.I agree that “Elizabeth’s Goudge’s first novel, Island Magic, displays her remarkable ability to pour life and love into every one of her stories, gracing each character with endearing qualities that speak to our own lives.”Island Magic has stood the test of time and is sure to please the most exacting readers.
As titles of books are meant to capture the essence of a novel, this book title hits its mark.
There is most certainly something magic, in an ethereal way, about the island where the novel is set.
Goudge uses words like a painter works with oils.
The magic of this novel lies in Goudge’s skill to fully engage both the heart and mind of the reader.
Goudge captures the ebb and flow of human nature and mingles it with insight into the spiritual journey.
Her skill in writing about children touches the heart and she describes the natural world with the ease of a botanist.
By the end, I was disappointed in the author's treatment of the mother character, Rachell.
I love the children's characters throughout and found their treatment by the author satisfyingly appropriate for the most part.
The Grandpapa was a person of importance who helped wound and alienate the family.
I felt like I knew very well what it would have been like to live in their family, in their town, and their way of life by the end of the book.
I think of it as the author having so many ideas in her head that she just tries to put them all into the story as she writes.
A really sweet story. The descriptions of the island's topography, buildings, gardens & weather, which are leisurely in Victorian style, are just delicious--I have started fantasizing about identifying & visiting this island, which lies between France & England. But it's probably fictional--sigh.I really like the way the point of view keeps shifting among the characters, including all five children of the du Frocq family & occasionally the servants.The reader has to accept some pretty huge improbabilities, but I was well-disposed toward the story, mostly because of the moral complexity of the characters, so I didn't find them annoying.
I loved this book!
This was the second Elizabeth Goudge book I have read.
Again I am completely amazed at the charm in her writing!
It is eloquent, yet not frivolous.
After reading The Little White Horse, I expected this to be a little more happy and childlike and happy, but instead was pleasantly surprised with a deeper read.
The book is about a family on an island just off of France, struggling to find themselves and make ends meet.
The book is from several different viewpoints, and I really enjoyed the deep & real quality of each character and their thoughts.
I highly recommend this book to and reader!

Elizabeth Goudge has written two of my favorite books, so this was a real disappointment.VERY slow moving, a LOT of description. I did like the people, but not the plot.And if you look at the blurb - well, it's nothing like that! It's a family story.
I wanted to read another of her books since she wrote one of my all time favorites, Green Dolphin Street. It was alright, nothing compared to GDS. She's a wonderful writer, so detail oriented, but this book was sloooooow.
Goudge is a wordsmith. This first effort is at times sparkling, insightful, and compelling. At other points it drags and veers into fancy, as though the writer can't quite control the characters or plot (which is something that I do not always view negatively. It can have charming results.).
A gentle Elizabeth Goudge book about someone who finds healing in an island. Rambling in places, but a pleasant slow-moving read overall.
Sad, but funny and satisfying. It was beautiful and good, but slightly predictable.
Her first book. Not as good as some of her later ones, but still quite spiffy. And it’s Elizabeth Goudge, which makes me happy. And the du Frocq family is absolutely charming. (September 2007)
I liked the character development, but it was a little slow.
Always enjoy Elizabeth Goudge's books. They are a fairly undemanding read
Island Magic is a sweet book that with bring the reader serenity without being boring. Lovely story about a family who live by the sea.
