https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/279660.The_Lion_in_Winter
What shall we hang, the holly or each other? If that sounds like something you'd hear (or say) at one of your holiday gatherings, then it's time for this Festivus classic. Wait, Festivus classic? Absolutely. While Die Hard may be an alternate Christmas classic for those who avoid the overly heartwarming by watching Bruce Willis blow stuff up real good, this is the movie (play, I meant play!*) for those who prefer their explosions verbal and emotional. But why Festivus and not Christmas? This is
If that sounds like something you'd hear (or say) at one of your holiday gatherings, then it's time for this Festivus classic.
Henry II gathers together his family...the queen, Eleanor of Aquitaine, and his sons, Richard, Geoffrey, and John.
Add to this the young King of France, Phillip, who has come to insist his sister Alais marry Richard, as was arranged over a decade earlier in exchange for giving a French province to England as dowry.
Eleanor backs Richard; Henry sides with John.
Henry also wants Alais to marry John, not Richard.
** Both Richard and John succeeded Henry.
Then John, who became king after Richard died.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
And their boys are far from acting as squires or public: they happily step in and fight themselves a series of private duels.
The only victim here, if she can be called so for she also has some pluck, is Alaïs, who at one point groans that there are "kings, queens, knights everywhere you look, and I'm the only pawn..."Those inveterate Angevins are at their best here, the book earns therefore a place amongst my keepers.
Re-read.Despite its obvious inaccuracies this is still my favourite fiction about Henry and Eleanor. Love the snark!!
This medieval story has a modern feel to it so that its message becomes timeless. This most dysfunctional family celebrates Christmas with betrayal and love, if not in equal parts, then with equal fervor. The best review of the play I read included the line, "King Lear" meets "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?"Recommended, especially because the Hepburn/O'Toole film does not have English subtitles and the word play is too precious to guess at.
2014 version: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TrfbV...
If you suck, I garner no enjoyment from your suckdom, and therefore will not typically read a book that is strictly about lying, conniving, murderous, adulterous, dare I say slimy?, people.
But I did, enjoy it that is, and the wonder of it all is that this play is written so well that these crazy people became (holy cheese, I'm gonna say it), endearing.
So for anyone whose experience in reading plays hasn't ventured out beyond Shakespeare in high school, this would be a great next go.
For those with some experience reading plays, I dare you not to take up your part in the mirror.
Around here, we know all the lines to The Lion in Winter and Monty Python and the Holy Grail, and they are likely to be uttered at the least provocation.
It never occurred to me to look for the script.
It just fell into my hands while browsing the library shelf.
I usually don't care for reading plays.
I think they are best seen/heard or read aloud by a group.
Too bad it's not available in e-book form, but it's a fast read.
I know there are historical inaccuracies, but really don't care.
I've only seen it about a thousand times.
It was the movie, released over two years after the play had closed its brief Broadway run (with Christopher Walken as King Philip) that turned the play into a classic.It's Christmas, 1183, and the three princes, Richard, Geoffrey and John have gathered at their father's palace.
Richard rages and openly desires to kill his father, Geoffrey repays his family for neglecting him by setting them up to be caught in his lies and John throws tantrums to guilt his father into giving him the crown.
I confess that I'm rating the movie (1968) along with this play. I couldn't divorce the two in my mind when reading the play. The movie follows the play entirely with the movie adding the settings that help to comprehend the play. The movie is among my favorites of all time specifically because of the word play and the dialogue. And with Katherine Hepburn as Eleanor or Aquitaine...well it simply doesn't get any better. This play is a brilliant representation of family dynamics and politics on steroids. Genius work!!Almost 4.5 Stars
A whirlwind look at a completely dysfunctional family under the guise of history. It supposedly represents Henry II and his wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine and their children in a conflict over who will replace Henry when he dies. There is much conniving, fighting, threatening and general mayhem throughout the play. I soon got bored and any intelligent person will too.
I read the approx 100-page play in one day. I found interesting this original script of the play when compared with the 1968 version of this play played by Peter OToole and Katherine Hepburn and Antony Hopkins. I don't know whice version I like better. I enjoy both versions. They each inform the other.
I’m going to be seeing this play in a couple of weeks, and I wanted to reread it before then. Eleanor is one of the best parts I’ve ever played, and this play is just amazing... some of the best dialogue ever. It’s just perfect. I hope I can play her again one day. “For the love of God, can’t we love one another just a little? That’s how peace begins. We have so much to love each other for. We have such possibilities, my children; we could change the world.”
A very good play but I wonder if I liked it so much since I saw the 1968 film with Hepburn & O’Toole. Without imagining them saying these lines, it would have been more dry & I’d likely have gone for a 3 Star rating. The dialogue is biting and witty, but partly due to delivery and the actors are the ones to add dimensionality to the lines. I recommended both reading this and watching that fantastic movie!
Henry II has assembled his three ungrateful sons, Richard, Geoffrey and John, his estranged wife, Eleanor of Aquitaine, and Alais, his ward, lover and the fiancée of whichever might be his heir.
Alais was raised by the then loving couple and looks up to Eleanor as a mother.
At stake, their lives plus that of her loved ones.And that defines a power struggle.
Therein lies Hans Landa's scenes' success.Henry and Eleanor are able to sustain this dynamic during the whole play.
Give out, give up, give in?Henry II: Give me a little peace.Eleanor: A little?
Spent 23 years of my life knowing the best line of the play (Dear me, whatever shall we do with mother?) but never understood the themes, context, and power that came along with the story that my grandmother, father, and high school director loved so much. Grandma played Eleanor and Mr. Balster played one of the sons. Richard or Geoffrey? Either way, would have given anything to see that production. Anything at all.
What do you know? My marriage has been immortalized. Good thing we're not playing for such high stakes.
Eight years later I played Geoffrey in a community theater version.
Now on to Richard.The play takes place on a Christmas Day in the twelfth century, and concerns a unique dysfuctional family who just happen to be the Royal Family of England.
There's the father, Henry II, trying to effect a peaceful transition of power to one of his sons while marrying his mistress, Alais.
There's the mother, Eleanor of Aquitaine, the richest woman in the world, who is trying to finagle her freedom and the accession to power of another son.
Richard, a bloody-minded warrior, Geoffrey, an intellectual plotter, and John, a sniveling brat.
The audience watches as Henry II and his estranged Queen, Eleanor of Aquitaine, gather together with their boys, France's prince, and Henry's mistress for a Christmas holiday.
Alais, Henry's mistress and Richard's fiance, is played like a pawn and the world around her is nothing without her King's love.
The most intriguing part of this play, and the reason you will watch it to completion, is the ongoing battle between Eleanor and Henry--a husband and wife with a passionate past and a strange residual love left between them.
THIS IS A GREAT PLAY.
There are so many great quotes that I wanted to set aside and come back to later, and I did start copying them down until it became apparent that I'd be copying down the whole script and I was better off just reading it again.
It's remarkably faithful to the script and, of course, very well-acted.I'm sticking this on my unrequited love bookshelf for a number of reasons, but mostly because Henry and Eleanor's relationship is unrequited something, and we may as well call it love for the purposes of categorization.Eleanor: I adored you.
At Christmas 1183 at Chinon, Henry II of England brings his wife Eleanor of Aquitaine out of her prison to spend the holidays with their sons Richard, John and Geoffrey.
At issue is the question of the succession: who comes next after Henry's gone?
As Eleanor says near the end when all feels lost "What family doesn't have its ups and downs?" The witty repartee I remember, courtesy mostly of the divine movie version, is still intact.It's interesting to remember Henry II himself was the by product of a civil war, son of Empress Matilda and Geoffrey of Anjou.
I truly do love this play. The writing's devilishly good and wickedly fun. Some lines are real gems. To me, it doesn't matter that the story's one of fiction. The play in essence gives life to these people and makes them seem more real. And given my knowledge of the history of Henry II, Eleanor of Aquitaine and the lives of their children, some of the themes addressed in the play do indeed seem plausible.
I just couldn't enjoy this. For me all the jokes fell flat, a few things really don't age well, some inaccuracies are so stupid and pointless, and most of all the characters don't...feel like who they should be, which is especially grievous considering the frankly braggy introduction about how Goldman really "got into their heads." Yeah I suppose if you were a white dude in the 60s this would feel fresh. I'll still see the movie because Katherine Hepburn is the queen.
Savy, intelligent, rapid-fire dialogue; a family reunion that makes all others pale in comparison; a game of who can and who can you not trust, all wrapped up into a short read that will make you smile. Yes--you should read this book.My recommendation--listen to the audiobook. The actors who voiced these characters are absolutely brilliant!
Henry and elanore being who thety are have problems. Regal problems that can't be solved in a simple fashion. The play really is a masterpiece of words and a delightful chess game between two string willed royals who are used to getting their own way. Now they must make cibsessions and learn to work together for the common good and to find themselves together as a team.
I’m not sure if Molina is the best Henry II I’ve seen or heard, but this performance of the play is darn good. The repartee is well done and even with just the audio you can hear the passion and disgust that Henry Eleanor feel for each other.
I saw the films before reading the play, which was a mistake. After seeing such impassioned performances, the script just can't help but feel a little flat and lifeless. But it's a brutal, beautiful piece of writing all the same, and well worth the time.
A brilliant play that fits well with Shakespeare Histories I've been reading. But more then that it had a strong intelligent modernist voice. Brevity at it's most elegant, with what not said being as important as what is said.
Simply ridiculous.
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده است؛ میتوانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0063227
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده‌ است؛ می‌توانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0063227
