https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15694.The_First_Man
Camus’s father was a man who knew nothing of France and yet was forced to go off and die for that country.Camus was born to European parents but, with the early death of his father, grew up in poverty in a mixed white-Arab neighborhood.
Even when someone died, the most his grandmother said was “Well, he’ll fart no more.” The work pays homage to one particular teacher who championed Camus, challenged him, gave him books, got him a scholarship, and intervened with his family when they wanted him to drop out to work.
You get the impression this book was a work of love for Camus.
The First Man is intensely emotional without being sentimental, self-critical without regrets, and above all human with a humanness which is, I think, the key to everything else he wrote.
The book shows Camus as a person shaped in his intentions as well as his vices by a most remarkable and unlikely multi-cultural background of poverty, intellectual depravation and what can only be called highly disciplined love: “They hurt each other without wanting to, just because each represented to the others the cruel and demanding necessity of their lives.” The narrative is not so much biographical as episodic, recounting the obviously most important emotional events and recognitions of his life.
Not knowing his father clearly affected Cormery: “Something here was not in the natural order and, in truth, there was no order but chaos when the son was older than the father.”Unfortunately, nobody in his family could really help him on his quest:“In a family where they spoke little, where no one read or wrote, with an unhappy listless mother,who would have informed him about his young, pitiable father?”However, despite his frustration, Cormery (Camus) understands the situation; he understands poverty and its effect on people:“To begin with, poor people’s memory is less nourished than that of the rich; it has fewer landmarks in space because they seldom leave the place where they live, and fewer reference points in time throughout lives that are grey and featureless.
Wandering through the night of the years in the land of oblivion where each one is the first man, where he had to bring himself up, without a father, having never known those moments when a father would call his son, after waiting for him to reach the age of listening, to tell him the family's secret, or a sorrow of long ago or the experience of his life…like all the men born in this country who, one by one, try to learn to live without roots and without faith, and today all of them are threatened with eternal anonymity…

It is not often that I struggle to find words; yet, this is one of those times.
Reading this unfinished manuscript has left me without words to express how I feel about it.
It's not a novel - it's a glimpse into the mind of a great man as he looks back on what was and what was not.
It is a rare glimpse into his likes, dislikes, memories, relationships, upbringing, social settings...
This 'novel' is full of inconsistencies, missing words, and notes.
It is a rare glimpse into the mind of a great man, and for this I'm thankful.
بچه به خودی خود هیچ نیست، پدر و مادر هستند که او را نشان میدهند.
با وجود آنهاست که حد خود را معین میکند، و حدش در نظر مردم معین میشود.
به واسطه آنهاست که احساس میکند به راستی دربارهاش قضاوت میشود، آن هم قضاوتی که نمیتوان از آن استیناف خواست، و همین قضاوت مردم بود که ژاک تازه آن را کشف کرد و همراه با آن قضاوت خود او بود دربارهی دلچرکین پرکراهتی که در سینه خودش بود.
نمیتوانست بفهمد که وقتی بزرگ می شود، اگر این کراهت را احساس نکرده باشد برتریهای کمتری خواهد داشت.
چوم مردم، خوب یا بد، خود آدم را میب
با وجود آن‌هاست که حد خود را معین می‌کند، و حدش در نظر مردم معین می‌شود.
به واسطه آن‌هاست که احساس می‌کند به راستی درباره‌اش قضاوت می‌شود، آن هم قضاوتی که نمی‌توان از آن استیناف خواست، و همین قضاوت مردم بود که ژاک تازه آن را کشف کرد و همراه با آن قضاوت خود او بود درباره‌ی دل‌چرکین پرکراهتی که در سینه خودش بود.
چوم مردم، خوب یا بد، خود آدم را می‌بیند و قضاوت می کنند و بسیار کم تر از روی خانواده آدم قضاوت می کنند و حتی زمانی می رسد که درباره خانواده هم از روی بچه‌ای که بزرگ شده قضاوت می‌کنند.از متن کتاب
Adds an unexpected dimension to Camus' philosophy: that it was written by a regular guy whose daily worries, ponderings, misgivings and regrets found him just as much as ours find us. That's of course a major point of his philosophy, that inherent flaws in the machine make regrets, worries, mistakes and absolute communion between people impossible, but gone in this work is the darkly ironic facade. This time we find reassurance in that Camus is as he was basically trying to convince us he was anyway (I think): just some guy.
توصیفهای کتاب حرف نداره... مخصوصن قسمتهایی که بازارهای الجزیره رو به تصویر میکشه، کاملن میتونی خودتو توی فضاش قرار بدی... گرمای طاقتفرسای الجزیره رو روی پوستت حس کنی... بوی شیرینیهای عربی به مشامت برسه... ترس «ژاک» و دوستاش، که ناشی از شیطنتهاشونه... و حتا احساس عجز و ناتوانییی که گاهی سراغ شخصیتها میاد... همه و همه ملموس و در یک کلمه بینظیره.«بعد هر دو تاریخ را خواند (۱۸۸۵-۱۹۱۴) و خود به خود حساب کرد: بیست و نه سال. ناگهان فکری به ذهنش رسید که تا ته دلش را لرزاند. خود او چهل سال داشت. مردی که ز
فقط یک تن بود که می‌توانست مرا ببخشد ولی من هرگز در حق او گناهی نکرده بودم و تمام خانه‌ی دل خود را به او داده بودم و با این‌همه میتوانستم به سوی او بروم، اغلب در خاموشی این کار را کرده‌ام، اما او مرده است و من تنها شده‌ام.
تنها تو میتوانی این کار را بکنی، اما تو حرف مرا نمیفهمی و نمیتوانی نوشته‌های مرا بخوانی.
با این‌همه من با تو حرف میزنم، به تو مینویسم، به تو، فقط به تو و وقتی که این نوشته تمام شد از تو بی‌هیچ توضیح دیگری طلب بخشش خواهم کرد و تو به من لبخند خواهی زد...»
Super translation that captures the clarity, vividness and unfussiness of Camus's writing. One of my favourite works, purely because of its evocative powers.
However, I found reading him productive and entertaining because we can gradually learn from what he has narrated or described as revealed from some interesting extracts that follow depicting “the story of Jacques Cormery, a boy who lived a life much like his own” (back cover): Moreover, each book had its own smell according to the paper on which it was printed, always delicate and discreet, but so distinct that with his eyes closed J.
In my imagination, the blood from the car wreck is sometimes to blame… There are sometimes several pages of single paragraph text with rolling full page sentences that Camus would obviously have tamed (judging by his finished work), but, but, but … they fill the moment, the place, the people so beautifully; they etch themselves into you with their sheer pain and longing and love and demanding nature.There is NO WAY a writer would wish this to be published on his behalf if he was alive to see it done.
I enjoyed every single word of this book. This is a MUST read to Camus' fans!
أغبط من عاشوا في النصف الاول من القرن الماضي الي ستيناته ...فترة التقلبات و الثورات ..وبزوغ الرؤى وا
این داستان نیمهکاره آخرین اثر آلبر کامو است که مرگ، به نویسنده فرصت نداده آن را به فرجام برساند. ظاهراً این اثر زندگینامهی خودنوشت نویسنده نیز هست و بر روایتهای آن، رنگی از واقعیت نمایان است. ماجراهای این داستان دربرگیرندهی زندگی شخصیت اصلی آن، ژاک کورمری، است از ابتدای تولد تا چهلسالگی؛ منتها بخش عمدهی آنچه کامو مجال نوشتنش را یافته، به دوران کودکی و نوجوانی و تجربههای آن برمیگردد؛ بهویژه رویدادهایی که در محیط مدرسه و جمع دوستان برای او رخ میدهد. در سرتاسر این داستان، در خلال هر چیزی که روایت م
خوشی‌ها و شادمانی‌ها نیز به‌شکلی دردآور، ناپای‌دار و گذرنده‌اند و او را می‌رنجانند:«احساس می‌کرد که زندگی و جوانی و همه‌ی هستی از او می‌گریزند؛ بی‌آن‌که بتواند چیزی را از میان آن‌ها نگه دارد.» (۲۹۳)«دلش می‌خواست فرار کند؛ به جایی فرار کند که در آن، هیچ‌کس نه پیر شود، نه بمیرد؛ به جایی که زیبایی تباه‌نشدنی باشد، زندگی همواره وحشی و پرجوش باشد و چنین جایی وجود نداشت.» (همان جا) ازآن‌جاکه نویسنده فرصت نیافته اثرش را سروسامان دهد، داستان‌گونگی به‌معنای تکنیکی در این کتاب وجود ندارد و می‌توان گفت این اثر سربه‌سر روایت‌هایی پراکنده و کمابیش بی‌انسجام است از زندگی شخصیت اصلی با تکیه بر توصیف‌های مفصل و طولانی.
داستان کتاب هم روی همین فقر و این چیزا مانور داده میشه و روایت کلی همم اینه که ژاک پدرش رو تو کودکی از دست میده که پدرش ۲۹ سالگی میمیره و درحالی که این بچه پدرشو نشناخته میمیره و وقتی به سن ۴۰ سالگی میرسه و سر قبر پدرش میره که از خودش کوچکتره احساس عحیبی بهش دست میده و یجوری میشه و در ادامه همه تلاش و تقلاش اینه که یاد بگیره و بیاموزه و دوباره متولد بشه و چیزایی درمورد زندگی بدونه و هم چنین در مورد پدرش و اینکه این چیزارو در اخر هم یاد میگیره از طریق معلمش و مادربزرگش و بیشتر معملش که به اون درسا و نکات زیادی یاد میده .
Some of my favorite quotes:-“There are people who vindicate the world, who help others live just by their presence” (35).-“There is a terrible emptiness in me, an indifference that hurts” (36).-“…dependence and necessity remain, and that is not far from resembling love” (222).-“her son, endlessly, watched her in the shadows with a lump in his throat, staring at her thin bent back, filled with an obscure anxiety in the presence of adversity he could not understand” (228).-“She embraced him, and then, having let go of him, she looked at him and took him again in her arms to kiss him once more, as if she had measured in herself all the love she had or could express and found that one measure was still missing” (55-6).-“It was not for mastery of the earth or the priviledges of wealth and leasure that these unexpected nationalists were contending with other nationalists: it was for the priviledge of servitude” (257).-“To begin with, poor people’s memory is less nourished than that of the rich; it has fewer landmarks in space because they seldom leave the place where they live, and fewer reference points in time throughout their lives that are gray and featureless.
این کتاب رو بعد از مرگ آلبر کامو و توسط همسرش و خانواده و دوساتانش جمع آوری شده و بر اساس یادداشتها ی اون نوشته شده مطمن هستم اگر کامو خودش زنده بود نمیگذاشت این کتاب به این شکل چاپ بشه یعنی درهم وبرهم و ناخوشایندحالا میفهمم چرا نویسنده ها قبل از خودکشی دست نوشته های خودشون رو میسوزانند به خاطر اینکه اینطوری و شتابزده چاپ نشه این دلسوزی برای چاپ آثار نویسنده بعد از مرگ فکر کنم باعث بشه تن نویسنده های بزرگ بیشتر توی گور بلرزه!!!
To think that this is a first draft is pretty unbelievable, and I actually found that this somewhat raw and unpolished style really appealed even more to me than his "proper" books.The political background for the book was the Algerian War. Camus was trying to show, by example of his own family, that the typical pied noir family did not live the life of colonial conquerors, but rather a harsh and laborious life in constant poverty, where there was little time for political squabble simply because getting from one day to the next was hard enough.
The way he's able to portray the life of a child in poverty, and put the innocent workings of the child's mind in the context of the hard Algerian life, while also showing that a bleak and harsh life does not entail life without love.
La mère d'Albert CamusL'auteur a été fauché par une mort accidentelle avant de pouvoir finir cet ouvrage.
Malgré cela, de larges passages sont déjà constitués, et permettent de profiter de ce qui annonçait déjà un grand livre.
Ce récit déborde d'amour; pour ses proches, pour l'instituteur qui l'a pris sous aile et lui a permis de poursuivre ses études; pour ce père qu'il n'a pas connu, fauché par la grande guerre; pour son prochain également, tel cet Arabe qu'il sauve du lynchage suite à un attentat.
Une lecture magnifique et dont le propos reste toujours vivant.
I studied Camus in school, like all French schoolchildren.
Apart from chosen excerpts that always pepper young readers' school anthologies, you tackle Camus in high school when you get to Existentialism in your history of French literature curriculum.
no ivory tower syndrome here, no self-involvement...And then I read the First Man, as unfinished as it is, and I feel so much admiration for him all over again.
First of all, there is his obvious easy command over the art of writing, and that in itself, is worth praise and admiration.
For me, this is one of the great love stories of modern literature; the whole book is an ode to his mother.
این کتاب قابل مقایسه با شاهکارهای البرکامو نیست اما یه جاهایی از کتاب چیزهای جالبی نوشته که نمونه اش
Nevertheless, the fact that the manuscript was found in the wrecked vehicle in which Camus perished, and that it was published 35 years after he died, gives it a special place in the Nobel prize-winning author’s canon.The book covers Camus’ birth in 1913 until his graduation from school at the age of 15 in Algeria.
Two-thirds of the book is the older Jacques’ search for his father, whose family migrated from Alsace to Algeria during the time of the Second Republic in France in 1848.
Se trata también de su novela más autobiográfica, porque habla ni más ni menos de un niño francés que vive en Argel y que está avergonzado de la pobreza y la ignorancia de su familia, una familia formada por una madre medio sorda y ausente, una abuela autoritaria y un tío sordo, y sin padre porque murió en la primera guerra mundial cuando hacía poco que Camus había nacido.
Todos los libros necesitan ser interpretados libremente por el lector, pero uno inacabado aún más y es el sueño de cualquier nerd intentar adivinar cómo iba a acabar la novela a partir de las notas tan crípticas que se añaden al final, y que también permiten ver las diferentes posibilidades que había considerado Camus para desarrollar su historia.
Ölümünden 34 yıl sonra, 1994 yılında, yazarın kızı Catherine Camus tarafından yayımlanmış.
Romanı dilimize kazandırmış olan usta Tahsin Yücel, aynı zamanda roman için doyurucu bir önsöz kaleme almış.
Romanda, başkişi Jacques Cormery'nin acılı, yoksul ve aynı zamanda mutlu, gururlu ve dürüst çocukluk ve ilkgençlik yılları anlatılmış.
Şimdiye kadar, bu romanla birlikte Camus'nün tüm romanlarını (Yabancı, Düşüş, Veba, Mutlu Ölüm ve İlk Adam) okudum.
Camus'nün İlk Adam dışındaki romanlarında baba figürüne rastlamıyoruz ve hemen hepsinde silik bir anne figürü görüyoruz.
Bu romanda (İlk Adam) ise yine silik bir anne figürü mevcut ancak bu kez başkişi Jacques, babasının izini sürüyor: "Kayıp Babanın İzinde".
Camus' other books that I recently read, The Stranger and The Fall, were both good, worthy of the five star rating I gave them, but in comparison, this deserves ten stars.
It is about a man (it is autobiographical, so it's about Camus himself) who returns to the Algerian neighborhood in which he grew up to see his mom, visit the grave of the father he never knew, and try to learn more about this mysterious father who died when he was only a baby.
He would have been accomplished, thoughtful, a devout lover of certain women, and always mindful that the woman he loved the most, his mother, was beyond his reach, as he, on entering the lycée is beyond hers.My thought is that this long manuscript is somewhat like Stephen Hero, Joyce's first version of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. That manuscript, too, was ultimately highly compressed, as I would expect Camus to have compressed this one.This partial book is compassionate in the sense that all the characters are given their due; Jacques is aware of all their sacrifices, as well as their shortcomings.
The novel ends before he graduates from the lycée, although it moves back and forth in time so there are chapters where the 40-something Jacques visits his father's grave in France, returns to Algeria to visit his elderly mother, and it contains the wonderful letter Camus wrote to this schoolteacher after he has won the Nobel, thanking him, and the teacher's response.The passages about his impoverished family life are wonderful.
One day Jacques lies and claims a two franc piece that he kept for himself fell into the family latrine; his grandmother rolls up her sleeves and goes digging through the excrement for it.
This is a great book for anyone who wants to learn more about Camus and for anyone who enjoys his writing.
The book was unfinished and in his daughter's introduction, reveals more of the writer than what typically appeared in a finished manuscript.
Who else can write as succinctly and as empathetically as Camus (in first draft!), as in passages describing his family's outlook: "..they looked on life with a resigned suspicion; they loved it as animals do, but they knew from experience that it would regularly give birth to disaster without even showing any sign that it was carrying it." Or, when commenting on his family's dread of unemployment: "That explained why these workers...
اگرچه مردم وانمود میکنند که به حق احترام می گذارند،اما در برابر هیچ چیز غیر از زور سر فرود نمی آورند.
