https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9784.Women_in_Love
H. LAWRENCESelect type of work from the drop down menuNOVELSelect century this NOVEL was written in20THHave you personally read any works by this author previously?YESHow much enjoyment did you derive from these works – please choose from drop down menuMODERATEIs this NOVEL one of the 1000 BOOKS YOU MUST READ BEFORE YOU DIE ?YESDid you read this NOVEL out of a sense of having to?YESHow many of your Goodreads Friends ™ have read this NOVEL?71What is the average star rating they have given this NOVEL?3.2Is there a film version of this NOVEL?YESDid you see this film?YESHow did you rate this film on a scale of 1 to 10 with 1 = poor and 10 = excellent?3.4How would you rate the quality of your sleep in the preceding three days film on a scale of 1 to 10 with 1 = poor and 10 = excellent?3.4Do you wish to proceed with the GOODREADS AUTOREVIEW™ ?YESPlease indicate how long the AUTOREVIEW should be in word count.138Processing...one moment please.Please review the following autogenerated review of WOMEN IN LOVE.
Gradually it drew away all his potentiality, it bled him into the dark, it weaned him of life.”•	“The men were satisfied to belong to the great and wonderful machine, even whilst it destroyed them...Their hearts died within them, but their souls were satisfied.”•	“I want you to drop your assertive will… I want you to trust yourself so implicitly, that you can let yourself go.”•	“He kissed her softly… like dew falling.”•	“Her father was not a coherent human being, he was a roomful of old echoes.”•	Wrestling, “They became accustomed to each other, to each other's rhythm, they got a kind of mutual physical understanding...as if they would break into a oneness… working into a tighter closer oneness of struggle, with a strange, octopus-like knotting and flashing of limbs in the subdued light of the room… the strange sound of flesh escaping under flesh.
In every novel he wrote he had to have a mouthpiece and usually this is the character you most feel like slapping in the face.
One of the reasons I loved this novel in my youth was that I idolised Katherine Mansfield and Lawrence uses her for the character of Gudrun and her husband John Middleton Murray for Gerald.
I hope you will die.’ Katherine understood Lawrence and even forgave him, writing in her Journal that ‘Lawrence and I are unthinkably alike.”			So, Women in Love: heavy on verbiage, rubbled with repetitive pseudo philosophy, burdened with three of most unlikeable characters you’re likely to meet in a novel all year and yet here and there dazzlingly brilliant as Lawrence was when he stepped down from his tiresome soapbox.
All of these folks can agree that they strongly dislike to read Lawrence's books, but from hearing them converse, one might almost conclude that the entire group can hardly be discussing the works of a single author.
The variety of accusations are impossible to reconcile.I think it is just this pattern of polarized criticism of his work that ought to point us to the obvious power Lawrence held as a novelist.
First, the fact that Lawrence wrote a lot about women, love, the self, and sex proves nothing whatsoever about his being gay.
I want to find you, where you don’t know your own existence, the you that your common self denies utterly. But I don’t want your good looks, and I don’t want your womanly feelings, and I don’t want your thoughts nor opinions nor your ideas—they are all bagatellas to me.  If you’ve already experienced gag reflex, then you know what to partly expect from this book. Yet to say this was all this book was about, would mean I did not take the time to read all of it. After having had friendly debates
Perhaps what he does most beautifully is stick with themes and setting; choosing instead to define his characters by the way they live and think.
To think, this was first published in a 1916 male repressive society, and yet these are female characters making such radical lifestyle choices, like Gudrun leaving home to live in London as a single artist.Every December, Lawrence and I have our yearly encounter.
Though I saw him strike some universal themes with this work, I preferred the characters and story of Sons and Lovers, especially at those moments when the prose here deviated to this sort of madness: 
She felt an overwhelming tenderness for him, and a dark, under-stirring of jealous hatred, that he should lie so perfect and immune, in an other-world, whilst she was tormented with violent wakefulness, cast out in the outer darkness.”Lawrence contrasts this pair with teacher Ursula Brangwen and Rupert Birkin, an alienated intellectual who articulates many of the opinions on men and women, love and democracy associated with the author.
This is Lawrence’s favorite of all his novels, and the one most drawing on his life, Ursula's character based on Lawrence's wife Frieda and Gudrun's on Katherine Mansfield, while Rupert Birkin's has elements of Lawrence himself, and Gerald Crich is partly based on Mansfield's husband, John Middleton Murry.
The best book I probably will ever read. I think I fell in love with Lawrence and his ideas. Am I sick?
The reader after awhile has to wonder if Lawrence just happened to put words into the character's mouths to play devils advocate, or if he is trying to say something like women have a flippant nature.
Only one woman in the whole book is ever described in detail and she's a boyish built shorthaired baby-talking lispy nymph, who warrants pages of description but who is pretty much unnecessary for the plot.The women really aren't important to the novel though, even though they are in the title.
In it, Ursula Brangwen came of age and defied the conventions of the unsophisticated environs in which she was raised, so she could selfishly search for satisfaction of the senses in a university town.With Women in Love (1921), D.H. Lawrence continues his look at marriage and the relationships between men and women.
On the other hand, her younger sister Gudrun Brangwen--a young teen at The Rainbow's end--now a sculptor, embarks upon and survives a fateful relationship with the indifferent industrialist Gerald Crich, an affair damned to failure by the uncompromising constitutions of each.To be sure, Lawrence has something instructive to say about love and marriage, how it requires work, respect and compromise.
This is not just because the narrator talks too fast and is really hard to understand, it's also because I'm just too old for this book. In my idealistic youth I would have found the ramblings of these people inspiring but now I'm bored. They go on and on about how the world is awful and I just had enough and can't finish it.
H Lawrens εναντιώνετε σε όλα τα κοινωνικά στερεότυπα που τον πνίγουν… Στην φωνή του ήρωα του Μπίρκιν, ένιωθα ότι άκουγα τον ίδιο τον συγγραφέα, καθόλη την διάρκεια της ανάγνωσης.
Θα μου πείτε βέβαια οτι οι μύχιες σκέψεις ενός ήρωα, είτε ακόμη και του ίδιου του αφηγητή, πρέπει να παραμένουν στο ίδιο το μυθιστόρημα και να μην θεωρούμε λαθεμένα ότι είναι οι ίδιες οι σκέψεις του δημιουργού, οτιδήποτε άλλο πέρα από αυτό, είναι παιδιάστικο.
Δεν έχω καταλήξει ακόμα, διότι αντικειμενικά το Ερωτευμένες Γυναίκες μου χάρισαν πολλά, ειδικά τροφή για σκέψη.«Αν υπάρχει, πράγματι, κάτι ανυπόφορο, αυτό είναι ο εξευτελισμός, η εκπόρνευση των μυστηρίων που ζούνε μέσα μας (…)Από τον Πρόλογο του D.
This book is like an Expressionist painting: you look at it once, and return and see something different.
The writing is lush, and almost poetic at times.
Lawrence uses the idea of the two sisters, Gudrun and Ursula, as his canvas to explore ideas about men and women, marriage and fidelity, and whatever else runs through his mind and on to the page.
In this high-speed, instant world, we are losing the art of leisurely contemplation.
D.H. Lawrence needs to be taken up, and put down, and taken up again.
Forget about the criticisms of misogyny/adoration of women, eroticism/not erotic enough, too frou-frou /too manly.
It is seemingly impossible to summarize a book such as Women in Love. The book innocuously begins with sisters Gudrun and Ursula Brangwen discussing marriage. Gudrun is an artist and Ursula is a school teacher, and their middle-class status is key in their ostracism from the high-society to which their lovers Geraldthe industrialistand Rupertthe disillusioned intellectual. Although these relationships would seem to be key, the complex relationship between Rupertmodeled after author D.H. Lawrence
It is seemingly impossible to summarize a book such as Women in Love.
The book innocuously begins with sisters Gudrun and Ursula Brangwen discussing marriage.
Further summarization seems impossible, because this novel seems to be not so much a novel, but rather a vehicle for Lawrence to espouse his philosophies through the character of Birkin.
Reading this book is arduous, and it is a novel that operates on so many different levels that it would be best discussed rather than read solitarily.
A provocative novel, that I love/hate, this read will make you want to know more about Lawrence (which may be key to understanding his motivations) and hopefully read some of his other work.
his brilliance is to inject personality , questions of morality, excitement and the range of other human emotions, it reflects his lifelong preoccupation with the effect of conflict on human society, what makes this book interesting is that Lawrence comes at it from a rather unusual perspective, part of his genus is his ability to wholly enter his characters, to make them believable to us, male or female.It opens with Ursula embroidering and Gudrun drawing as they sit altogether in the window-bay of their father's house, Gudrun asked Ursula if she wanted to get married"Let a man walk alone on the face of the earth, and he feels himself like a loose speck blown at random.
Superb! D.H. Lawrence at his best. Each character is utterly individual and nuanced but cannot stand alone, being fully realized only in relationship and response to each other. Having read the work one sees these people around one every day, and of course one also sees aspects of oneself in each of them as well. A terrific novel!
It is Lawrence's most complete statement.
Lawrence explores ideas through the fist-tight dialogue and the bold imagery.
Ursula remains the real centre of the book, but Birkin, Gudrun and Gerald all get close-up focus too.
I remembered from the film that one of the male characters died at the end.
Sadly, Ursula has no more sapphic adventures, but Gerald and Birkin represent an awkward attempt at male companionship that never quite happens.
Lawrence is never less than interesting, and he has a great talent for rendering action with vivid immediacy.
This is a book that is worth arguing with.

Que grande desilusão.É muito triste ter que falar assim de uma obra de um autor tão conhecido e importante na história da literatura, mas realmente não gostei nem um bocadinho deste livro.
Quanta incoerência de pensamentos e de comportamentos...que confusão.Julgo ter entendido o objectivo do autor, de expor a complexidade dos relacionamentos humanos e de promover uma reflexão sobre a mudança social do seu tempo, mas sinceramente parece-me muito mal conseguido, numa escrita muito mal elaborada, cuja beleza literária que associam a este autor, não conseguí encontrar.Provávelmente, esta opinião deve-se apenas à minha própria ignorância literária, pela qual peço desculpa aos admiradores de D.H. Lawrence, mas de facto, não posso recomendar esta obra.
Segundo apurei, não há meio termo no impacto que causa nos leitores, sendo ou odiado ou adorado.Post completo sobre esta obra no Linked Books em: http://linkedbooks.blogspot.com/2012/...

If there is anything like a truth to sexual relations, I'd say that Lawrence's account here comes pretty close to capturing at least one fold of the central knot of it.
The dynamic of the characters' lives thus modulates itself between the two poles of death and love, between the two absolutes of negation and ecstasy.It is worth reading this if only to witness this seemingly magical oscillation it sustains between the two extremities of our being: from the lucid world of waking consciousness, in which we have our definite contours and stance in things, pragmatic fixity, to the underworld at which we feel ourselves to be, ultimately, strangers to ourselves.
Lawrence può creare un capitolo di 70 pagine parlando di una gita in montagna (in cui non accade nulla di significativo, se non giustamente delle persone che vanno in slittino sulla neve) o uno di 40 in cui ci sono delle signorine che prendono il tè discutendo della vita.
Iniziano a discorrere del tempo, o di un vestito, poi uno di loro si mette a parlare di vita, umanità, amore, morte, filosofia, coscienza, che non c'entra assolutamente nulla col tema di partenza, però se è Birkin che parla qualcosa di interessante lo tira fuori.
Uomini e amore, non c’era tedio più grande.Non c’è cosa più irritante, io credo, che sentirsi troppo stupidi per capire un romanzo.
Il problema è che in un romanzo di Jane Austen (per quanto la mia venerazione per zia Jane sia eterna ed incrollabile) non si troverebbe qualcosa su cui riflettere.
Pah, l’amour.Donne innamorate è proprio questo, una sottile e complessa analisi dei sentimenti umani allo scoccare del secolo, un tentativo di stabilire cosa è cambiato rispetto al secolo scorso, se c’è ancora l’amore e in che forme si esprime, attraverso tutto un campionario di esperienze quali la convivenza, il matrimonio, le relazioni tra persone dello stesso sesso.
Holy crap what a miserable book.
If your Emo or wannabe Emo this is the book for you.
You hear people complain that Tolkien will write about a tree for 3 pages, well in this book the author will describe the same thought for 3 pages and then goes absolutely no where with it!
There is no one in this book to root for.
You just end up wishing all the characters would hold hands and jump off a bridge.the author is obviously trying to make you think about sacrifice and love but ended up making me feel drained and delusional.
Over the top with urgency and metaphysical wrestling. Language that is physical and morbid, often vulgar. Wonderful stuff - I found it undeniable this time around.
She reached for another bit of chocolate paper, and began to fold another boat.“And why is it,” she asked at length, ‘that there is no flowering, no dignity of human life now?”‘The whole idea is dead.
In a chapter called “Class-Room”, where one of our main characters is a teacher, two of her “friends” enter and in full view of the class embark into a sordid philosophical conversation of the evils and futility of mankind.
Suddenly our teacher dismisses her class – and I suppose her students silently leave.
I kept reminding myself that this classic novel is "magnificient" and that (the characters) "clash in thought, passion and belief, and the reader is gripped by deeply held convictions about love and modern society" .
There are some passages written so beautifully, and definitely some thoughts on our existence that you can't help but think about; but it was the characters that I found so difficult to deal with.
So, in the end, I'm glad I read it, but I won't go so far as to say I enjoyed it.
Now I have to decide what to read next .
I was close to giving this a five, but with the profusion of loins, shanks and limbs scattered around the pretty prose which at times read like straight up harlequin romance i had to pull back the final star. also, despite my having more in agreement with some of the thoughts/ideas expressed in this novel, it shared the flaw of that work which i share far less intellectual common ground with - atlas shrugged. in both works characters can at times feel like lifeless mouthpieces for the authors philosophy, arragned in poses to spout the authors ideas/philosophy.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلية : ٢٠٠٧الايروتيكا في تلك الأيام لا تدهشنا حقا ولا تبهرنا..ولكن لدى لورنس احساس عجيب وغريب بأن التحرر الجنسي طريق للتحرر الجماعي
But the characters in this book did not listen very well because they were toobusy internally constructing the other person's real agenda.Character A: "Nice weather, isn't it?"Character B: Why does A say that?
The internal monologues of fear and loathing tend to run over multiple pages as well, before character B says something like "Isn't it just," but with such cold indifference that character A embarks on an internal monologue about how Character B terrifies them by their sheer masculinity/femininity/enigma/presence/whatever.) The title was a complete misnomer.
A better title for the book would be: Men in Love: An Unfulfilled Bromance.
“I detest what I am, outwardly.
I loathe myself as a human being.
Humanity is a huge aggregate lie, and a huge lie is less than a small truth.
Humanity is less, far less than the individual, because the individual may sometimes be capable of truth, and humanity is a tree of lies.”Novels by D.H. Lawrence possess the absolutely unique psychological climate and Women in Love is definitely his best one.Women in Love and Point Counter Point by Aldous Huxley constitute an exhaustive portrayal of the era – at least on the intellectual plane.“She knew, with the perfect cynicism of cruel youth, that to rise in the world meant to have one outside show instead of another, the advance was like having a spurious half-crown instead of a spurious penny.”A human being is a complex combination of natural instincts, emotions, consciousness, reason and acquired knowledge so one's main task is to keep all these ingredients in harmony.
