https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25099.The_Doll_s_House
Every time I try to write a review for a Sandman comic, it just sounds like an outpouring of positive emotions and generic statements about what makes a good story good.
This is the story of how, after he was restored to his full power in Sandman volume one, he regains the control of the remainder of his weird minions that went rogue.
It’s hard to explain if you haven’t read it, but in Gaiman’s world dreaming is a powerful tool.
It may sound slightly irrational, but the point is the real world has been used to demonstrate that there are concepts and powers that will always be beyond human recognition.
During her week in London, and later, when she moves into her new rooming house, peopled with eccentrics, near her Florida campus, we begin to suspect that she may be one of those dream-vortices too, and we fear for her, and for our world also.My favorite things about this narrative were the folk-tale purity of the old man’s initiation story (“Tales in the Sand,” Prologue), the interlude which chronicles Dream’s periodic meetings with a man who cannot die (“Men of Good Fortune,” Part 4), and the exciting and surprising conclusion in which an endearing fat Englishman with a sword cane—who is called Gilbert and looks suspiciously like G.K. Chesterton—does his utmost to save Rose Walker from what seems an inevitable fate.This is a masterpiece of the genre.
Note: This is part two of a rambling multi-volume re-read of the series.
It will probably make better sense in context of other reviews...
In this volume, we get several cool stand-alone stories and our first longer story arc with a non-sandman character.
It's good stuff.
Clever and fun and smart.
Everything you'd expect from Gaiman.
When I first read it, it wowed me.
It was cool and real and mythic all at once.
Reading it now, I look back on my first-read-through self and smile fondly, thinking.
"Oh you sweet boy, you have no idea what cool is yet.
I'm sorry Neil Gaiman..That first book in this series was kinda bland. I think you way stepped it up in this book. Yes, I know..you has some fangirls..err Kelly and Synesthesia..might want to send those to some fan mail..they got your back.This one featured Dream guy but it actually made some sense..or did I drink the kool-aid?? Am I dreaming now..Now I'm paranoid.I hate to give much away because these books aren't very long. So you gonna have to read these suckers. Oh! Wait! I will tell you. If
I'm sorry Neil Gaiman..That first book in this series was kinda bland.
I think you way stepped it up in this book.
Yes, I know..you has some fangirls..err Kelly and Synesthesia..might want to send those to some fan mail..they got your back.This one featured Dream guy but it actually made some sense..or did I drink the kool-aid??
Am I dreaming now..Now I'm paranoid.I hate to give much away because these books aren't very long.
So you gonna have to read these suckers.
If you check into a hotel with a "Cereal Convention" going on..you might just want to keep chucking on down the road.
Oh, shoot me a second asshole because I am about to rate a Neil Gaiman work with just two stars, I deserve all the wrath that is coming to me, I take full responsibility of my heartless actions that has no justification other than that The Doll's House kind of really sucks ass, and there is hardly any tongue action at play.The Sandman really reminded me of other series I struggle with; Hellblazer.
An extraorDinary masterpiece! Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrators: Mike Dringenberg, Malcolm Jones III, Michael Zulli, Steve Parkhouse & Chris BachaloLetterer: Todd Klein dOLLS & dREAMS  So, this is no man, no god, but something else. You know that this TPB is something else when Clive Barker does the introduction!While I only read (so far) four of the first TPBs of The Sandman, at least in this moment I have to say that this is the strongest storyline.The first time that I st
In one of the TPBs of the iconic run by Alan Moore in Swamp Thing there was a story developed in a single issue about a serial killer and there he did a casual mention about the intention of serial killers around the United States about organizing a convention.
But neither of them put any reference to the story of the other, because it’s the reader who has to make the connection......Priceless!!!Morpheus, the King of the realm of the Dreams, the very embodiment of Dream, is now back in business.
Four of the major arcana big beings are nowhere in the realm of dreams.
The Doll’s House, the second installment of Neil Gaiman’s The Sandman series, is an entertaining offering of graphic novel collaboration. Gaiman’s imaginative storyline is brought to life by illustrators Steve Parkhouse, Chris Bachalo, Michael Zulli, Mike Dringenberg and Malcolm Jones III. Taking off from the introductory The Sandman, Vol. 1: Preludes and Nocturnes, this volume follows a thematic plot about a “dream vortex” about which Morpheus must contend. Other vignettes featured continue to expand the Sandman canon and further demonstrates Gaiman’s narrative skill. The serial killer convention is especially noteworthy.
Love belongs to Desire, and Desire is always cruel.”Morpheus, the King of the Realm of the Dreams, is back to his full power following the events of Volume 1.
So bear with me.Each volume seems to be comprised of contained vignettes that somehow link into the major storyline and further expand upon the Sandman canon.
One minute you’re reading about a character who has lived for many, many years and doesn’t want to die, who Dream meets up with every one hundred years in the same tavern.
And the next you’re reading about a serial killer convention (this was really the standout part of this Volume for me.
The Corinthian and the serial murderer's convention was rather special, and Rose Walker was somewhat interesting the first time reading this, but the second time? I think it was much better.It's all about how we are shaped and what we shape, from feelings of listlessness (Dream), making a new life (the escaped dreams), or friendship with Hob, the humanity of Death, of Desire's machinations.All of which touch on something deeper than a single series of comics should ever have a chance to commit.Very impressive storytelling, and weird, full to the brim with images and sequences that go very deep indeed.
It's just too dark and trippy for me, and the art isn't something that I actually enjoy looking at.I'm not saying it's awful...I just don't like it!I really wish I could say that I got all the deep introspective stuff that Gaiman was saying, but...Truth?I'm a few tiny steps away from being completely shallow and silly.Especially when it comes to reading material.
All the while there are all of these little side stories about other crazy people/things playing in the background.Death (the only character I really liked) wasn't in this one, so that was a bit of a downer.I already have volume 3 sitting beside me right now, and I'm sort of curious to see how things progress, but I'm just not sure if I'll end up reading it.
There are, generally speaking*, two diametrically opposing views held by people who do and don’t read Sandman: Loyal Sandman readers tend to believe that people who don’t understand the book’s greatness are mouth-breathing knuckledraggers, and that the world would be a better place if said knuckledraggers’ fathers had expelled the genetic material that resulted in their creation via a round of fellatio rather than implanting it deep within their mothers’ wombs.
Those who don’t read the book tend to believe that even if loyal Sandman readers had the sticks surgically removed from their asses, they would suffer fatal accidents as a result of accidentally wandering into traffic while spending too much time spent staring down their noses at the capes-and-cowls crowd.
I used to stubbornly think that graphic novels had no intellectual merits other than for amateur entertainment (I know, pedestal).
This series not only blew me away visually, but caused me to see graphic novels in a new light.
It dares to tell the story of Morpheus, also known as Dream, the Prince of Stories, one of the seven Endless who are not gods, because gods die when men stop believeing in them.
The Endless are older and larger than gods.
The cast of characters who make up one of the titular Doll Houses -- Ken and Barbie, the Spider Women, flamboyant Hal, Sandman's missing Fiddler's Green (a landscape of mountains and rivers and foothills turned man), and Rose, the Vortex of Dream -- is fascinating and rich.
And then there's Rose's brother, the foster boy imprisoned in a basement dungeon for seven years only to be liberated by the nightmare Corinthian; it is a truly chilling scenario (and deserved much more of Gaiman’s time).
Και ναι κατάφερε με αυτό το δεύτερο μέρος να γίνει ακόμη καλύτερο! Πάμε για το επόμενο!
Meanwhile, young Rose Walker discovers her grandmother is Unity Kincaid, the woman who slept most of her life in a side story from the first book.
Rose goes back to America to look for her long-lost brother, Jed. She rents a room in a house that feels like a prototype for the house Gaiman will use in his later book, Coraline.
After too many chapters Morpheus rounds up the Nightmares except the Corinthian who he eventually gets around to during the Cereal Convention, which is a disguised serial killers’ convention - which seems like a funny idea at first but makes no sense when you think about it.
The eight issue story arc opens with  Tales in the Sand  : a look at the distant past of the Endless entity known as Dream.
For example, the triple nature of womanhood that is found in myths all around the world is seen both in the trio Rose - Miranda - Unity and in the return of the Maiden - Mother - Crone multiple personality character from the first volume (inspired probably by the Greek mythology Fates / Furies and used to good effect in another succesful series: Discworld by Terry Pratchett)I have grown used to Mike Dringenberg art, it still feels blocky at times, but he is good at conveying motion and emotion.
Reading SANDMAN, you get the feeling that Gaiman has read a very wide range of stories in his time, and loves to both practice and depict the art of story-telling in as many ways as his imagination will take him.The bulk of Vol 2 consists of “The Doll’s House”, a very strange and often harrowing story that still is centered on a positive and innocent young woman named Rose Walker.
More than any other part, I did not catch all the wonderfully creepy details of this story until the second time round, especially in the brilliantly twisted dialogue among the convention-goers.It is only in this story that I gradually recognized all the different story threads and how Rose, her travel companion Gilbert, the Corinthian, and Dream are all connected.
The trouble is that this is better than the first one, but I don't want to rate the first one less than 5 stars because I love it. Can this one be 5 plus? The story is darker in this one. Grittier. The first one was easing you into the universe. The real storytelling starts here.
Sandman, Sandman, how do I rate thee... Ovo je inače drugi put da čitam ovaj strip, prvi put nisam uspeo ni prvi deo da završim. Ne kažem da je loš, daleko od toga, svet snova je sam po sebi izuzetno bogat i zahvalan za istraživanje, ali opet mi utisak kvari haotična naracija i crteži koji izgledaju kao skice. Nastaviću dalje, ali i dalje se pitam zašto je Sandman na gotovo svim listama proglašen za jedan od najboljih stripova svih vremena. Meni je negde između trojke i četvorke.
Since thought bubbles tended to go over their individual panels I sometimes read things out of order too and had to go back a few times.I am going to have to read Volume 1 next though.
And then Neil Gaiman takes over and from there we hear of Morpheus (the Sandman) and how he ended up entrapped.
I wish we heard about her more in this volume, but my friend tells me we do hear of her again.From there it is 'present day' with Morpheus trying to stop a vortex (Rose Walker).
Why I am glad I got a volume so I didn't read this issue by issue.
Από τον δεύτερο κιόλας τόμο η προσδοκίες που έχουν καλλιεργήσει τα σχόλια του Γκέιμαν και του συντάκτη, πως ο πρώτος ήταν μια άγουρη αρχή και η συνέχεια θα είναι λαμπρή, επαληθεύονται.Ο Γκέιμαν με μεγαλύτερη αυτοπεποίθηση αποτινάζει τις συμβάσεις του DC σύμπαντος και παρασύρει τον αναγνώστη στον δικό του κόσμο.
Δε νομίζω πως υπάρχει όμοιό του στον χώρο των κόμικς.
Είναι τα πρώτα μεγάλα βήματα ενός συγγραφέα που έμελε να γίνει κάτι ξεχωριστό μεταξύ των συγγραφέων.
Doll's House is a very different beast than the last story.
We also get a short story in here about a man who escapes death thanks to Sandman and his sister deciding to let him live through hundreds of years.
I also really enjoyed the Doll's House storyline for the most part.
It starts off simple enough but the complexity keeps coming and by the end, when we end up in a killer convention, it all comes to something amazing and sad.
I also thought the short story here was well done and shows life can really be what you make it.
Bad: Sometimes the start got me a little bored.
In this second installation, it is the convention of serial killers where Gaiman is able to tap into his sense of human nature and draw out something that is funny, terrifying, and well-written.
Often, his archetypal main characters cannot hold a candle to the depth and complexity of the small throwaways such as Gaiman creates here.Perhaps he is afraid of alienating the reader, and hence always lays a fairly neutral and mysteriously cool reader surrogate at the center of things.
I think I might prefer what Gaiman could become if he descended completely into the world of his minor characters more often, and left the moralizing to the reader.
Well, second one down. A few of my friends keep telling me to “keep going” and “it gets better.” I truly hope so. I hope the art gets better, although the photographs for each issue are very clever and eerily beautiful. From what I’ve read so far, Gaiman writes like a lost traveler. Little makes sense. By the time I got to the end I was already worn out to really care. Come on volume 3! Blow my socks off!
‘It seemed like the late autumn wind blew them in that night, spinning and dizzying from the four corners of the world. It was a bitch Wind, knife sharp and cutting, and it blew bad and cold.’⚜Well I’m firmly loving The Sandman graphic novel journey! Volume 2; The Doll’s House, I have to say was even better than Volume 1. I think this was because in volume 1 I was still getting used to the graphic novel format and slowly finding my way with the characters. Volume 2, however, I found myself easil
I think this was because in volume 1 I was still getting used to the graphic novel format and slowly finding my way with the characters.
Volume 2, however, I found myself easily flowing with the story and really absorbing the characters, old and new, instantly.⚜️The Doll’s House follows Morpheus (aka the Sandman) as he attempts to track down rogue nightkind - creatures from the dreamworld, who belong in his realm and not anywhere else.
I applaud you, Morpheus, you’re so right!⚜️Lastly, I think it’s important to mention that Gaiman represents all walks of life in The Doll’s House.
Right now that this is currently my favorite Sandman book (Mind you this is only the 2nd volume).
I read volume one "Preludes & Nocturnes" and liked it, but the beginning was a little slow and didn't grab me right away.
What makes Gaiman's writing so unique is that it is all about the story and not a huge climactic battle to save the world, Dream is not even the central character in these stories; Instead, Rose Walker is.
Exemplary writing, Gaiman is a true word artist, this story is a must read.
In this one, Morpheus discovers several of his creations escaped the Dreamland while he was imprisoned, so he has to go retrieve them.
*shiver* He also discovers there is a new "vortex" in the shape of a teenage girl named Rose who threatens to damage the Dreaming.This one was a bit too dark for me.
I also just didn't really like the story either.
(There's a scene in the very beginning of this volume that makes more sense after you read the last one.
I went back and re-read it and was like ohhhh, ok.
As clever and morbid and electrifying as always. This volume has once again combined the creepy and the fascinating all in one. I love how all of the stories connect in some way or another. Another great volume from Gaiman!
http://angelerin.blogspot.com/2016/04...So I read the first volume in The Sandman series about a year ago and I liked it (I rated it 3 stars), but I didn't love it.
Hooray!While the first Sandman volume was a bit confusing and a little dull in places, The Doll's House held my attention a lot better.
I also loved the parts with Morpheus.
I'm happy that I liked this volume better than the first and I can't wait to read the third volume!
I recommend The Doll's House for anyone that's read the first volume, even if you were iffy about that one.
The SandmanImagine a sort of walking path or trail, about a 500 feet long. It's not a barren, empty, boring trail though. It's a work of art. Along the way are wonderful things to see everywhere you look. Every time you walk through it you notice something new. It's the most amazing trail you've ever walked on. Now imagine a second trail, but this one's about a mile long. It's like the first trail - complex, interesting, creative - but this one is stretched out. It feels as if it was made for gi
T͟h͟e͟ S͟a͟n͟d͟m͟a͟n͟Imagine a sort of walking path or trail, about a 500 feet long.
And the second trail is the entirety of the T͟h͟e͟ S͟a͟n͟d͟m͟a͟n series.
It was just a random (albeit awesome) short story shoved in here that didn't even really tie into the current main plot.
I just wanted it to show who I thought would be the actual main characters (the Endless) more; have a little more progression in whatever the overarching plot of this series is gonna be.
I knew the personification of Desire was going to be a character in this book.
