https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/347358.Tempest_Tost
It centers on a community production of Shakespeare's best magic trick, The Tempest, starring young Griselda as Ariel as she sorts out her several suitors: Roger Tasset, a classic Victorian rake; Solly, the one you root for; and local high school teacher Hector Mackilwraith, who's the most interesting person in the book.
There is indeed a certain Victorian stuffiness just sniffable around the edges of Tempest-Tost; the fact that the book is fully aware of it doesn't really change things.
You think Davies knows he's an ass but you're not sure.
Full of well-turned phrases and penetrating insights into both human nature and into provincial post-war Canadian mores, this book was like reading George Eliot after she'd had a bit too much sherry, had changed into something more comfortable and had whispered in your ear, "Well, just between you and me...."Salterton is a fictionalized version of the Eastern Ontario city where I did my own undergraduate studies (Kingston), but it, somewhat disappointingly for me (in a selfish way--it has no bearing on the novel's viability itself) doesn't really feature as a "character" in the novel as I would have liked (being a fan of Dickens's tendency to elevate  millieu to pride of place in his novels), but no matter: this story of a bunch of amateur thespians essaying to put on The Tempest provides Mr. Davies with an excellent excuse to parade (with a definite lightness in his step) the vast, eclectic nature of his learning before us, and connect it all together somehow.
I don't know much about Robertson Davies, but I imagine he must have been a delightful human being.
But there are others who will lie and scheme and steal to get books as wildly and unconscionably as the dope-taker in pursuit of his drug.
They want books as a Turk is thought to want concubines - not to be hastily deflowered, but to be kept at their master's call, and enjoyed more often in thought than in reality."See, he knows what he's talking about.
I am like a dope-taking Turk in pursuit of drugs and concubines!
Esto, unido a un pulso narrativo encomiable, hace que la lectura de sus novelas sea una delicia para el paladar más exigente.'A merced de la tempestad' fue la primera novela que escribió el canadiense Robertson Davies, en el año 1951, libro que formaría posteriormente parte de la llamada Trilogía de Salterton (siendo las otras dos ‘Levadura de malicia’ y ‘Una mezcla de flaquezas’), localidad ficticia donde transcurren las tres novelas.La historia que nos plantea Davies en 'A merced de la tempestad' es todo un homenaje al teatro, elemento que el autor, dramaturgo excelso, dominaba a la perfección.
Adored his other two trilogies so dreaded circling back to the beginning and grazing my shins against his inevitably hesitant debut. But this fledgling appeared fully formed - this is either my favourite or second favourite of all his books. Knockabout brilliant, picaresque, laugh-out loud funny. Pickwick Papers, Noel Coward, Mervyn Peake funny. Mr Davies is a joy.
Even though I didn't enjoy it as much as Fifth Business, I'm going to be fair and rate it against 'all the books'. The Frederick Davidson narration was pitch perfect, he captured the stage-play quality of the book and its dialogue perfectly. Davies is wry and full of astute observations - I'll look forward to finding out what follies lie ahead for the good folks of Salterton.
I'd forgotten how much I love Robertson Davies! So funny and written with such compassion for his characters; I sometimes describe John Irving as the modern Dickens, but actually it's Davies. Irving is the American Dickens. (It was Irving's admiration for Davies that initially started me on the Deptford Trilogy, though, so they're both influenced by the master of character.)NOTE: I HATE that the Goodreads description of the book includes a spoiler for the end!
Like Downton Abbey meets Slings and Arrows. A light and delightful portrait of small-town theatre.
Enjoyable, and at times, laugh out loud moments about a group of local theater members who get together to perform the Tempest. Hector was my favorite character. He's the most pathetic but also the funniest character in the book. I recommend this book. I may continue to with the trilogy. We'll see how things go.
Lots of novelists write extensively on the small flaws that are foundational to the human psyche, but very few do it with the peculiar combination of wit, affection, and indulgence that Davies does.
While his skills at characterization would be even better by the Deptford trilogy, here all the characters have their own personalities, and their interactions, such as when Hector is competing with out-of-town rake Roger Tasset and well-meaning Oedipal victim Solly Bridgetower for Griselda's hand, are usually very funny.
It was thus possible to announce to the class that the dunce had been awarded minus thirty-seven out of a possible hundred marks; such announcements could not be made more than two or three times a year, but they always brought a good laugh.
That it never did so was one of the puzzles which life brought to Hector, for he was convinced of the effectiveness of ridicule in making stupid boys and girls intelligent."Haven't we all suffered from a teacher like this?
Therefore, it is satisfying to see (view spoiler)[the effects of ridicule upon Hector in his stupidity at romance at the end of the book!
I entered into the Salterton Trilogy with skepticism, fearfully remembering the awful reading of Fifth Business back in high school (I loved the novel, hated the teacher) Tempest Tost is remarkably humorous, and each character is highly neurotic, ignorant, and naive--but that's all part of their charm!
Loosely based on Kingston, ONT where Davies hails from, Tempest-Tost centers around a group of amateur townspeople eagerly putting on a production of Shakespeare's The Tempest.
A homage to the concept of small town Kingston life being somehow more serene and intellectually stimulating then other towns.Whether this is true, I do not know.
Divertidísima comedia, entorno al proyecto de una función teatral para aficionados, durante el verano.
La obra elegida es La Tempestad, de Shakespeare, lo que da pie a un repaso a la sociedad de un pequeño pueblo canadiense (Salterton).
La elección de una directora profesional le da un toque exquisito para contrastar la calidad de la función.
En resumen, se puede decir que la lectura es muy divertida, con continiuos golpes de humor sutil, no exento de profundidad psicológica en algunos pasajes...
Robertsón Davies era un guasón y en ésta, su primera novela, lo demuestra claramente.
No dejaré de leer el resto de novelas.
I'm a fan of the "Hey Let's Put on a Show" genre, and Davies is a great author to attempt it. His gentle social satire shines as he tells the story of a community theater group in a small Canadian city putting on a production of The Tempest. In this book, Davies reminds me a lot of Jane Austen. He has an ability to create characters who are very realistically irritating, yet he never gets cynical. His warmth toward humanity and his faith that the good people among us will triumph in spite of pettiness and ego makes me happy.
Entretenido y bien escrito. Quizá un poco irregular y con algunos momentos innecesariamente largos, como la inacabable velada en la casa de Solly, pero en general es un buen libro con caracteres muy bien construidos y estructura bastante dinámica. Me ha gustado especialmente el desenlace. Una buena opción que ya adelanta las mejores características del autor.
Anything by Robertson Davies! This isn't my favourite, but it still knocks most other authors out of the running. Is it cheating to count each part of the trilogy as a separate book, even though my copy has them all bound in together? I'm going to say Not, because like I said, the print IS very small.
This is basically a 1950s Canadian version of Waiting for Guffman, complete with pitifully socially awkward characters, each with a very unrealistic conception of her own abilities. Poor Hector.
Buenos personajes, divertido desarrollo, elaborado estilo, pero al fin y al cabo una obra de entretenida intrascendencia. Y con ganas de leer más de este autor.
The clash between her values and the cosy traditional ideas of the amateur group enhance the satire enormously.The third way that Davies moves Tempest-Tost out of the common is by the power of his characterisation.
Like the inhabitants of Sinclair Lewis' even more bitter Main Street, the small mindedness of Salterton's inhabitants is quite amazing, and is (paradoxically) greatest amongst those who consider themselves the town's sophisticated elite.Tempest-Tost is a wonderfully witty satire, full of barbed humour and, more than that, it is a novel full of memorable characters.
This was the first Robertson Davies novel I read.
It was loaned to me by my friend Tom, who highly recommended it to me.
He was SO right!!!!
Great characters, lyrical prose, wit, true-to-life situations, compassionate world view, and a fabulous sense of humor.
Reading this prompted me to immediately go out and read the next two in this trilogy, and three other trilogies by the same author.
All his books get 5 stars from me, except maybe for Cunning Man, which I'm now reading, and am not entirely sure of.
I think that was his last book before he died.
A GREAT writer-philosopher!
Not so good as the Deptford Trilogy, this first tome of the Salterton Trilogy. Still, Davies is an exceptional writer, and "Tempest-tost" is a witty, funny, interesting read. Probably best for those who have read "The Tempest" by Shakespeare, as it revolves around that particular play."Leaven of Malice," the second book in this threesome, is already proving to be a better read, though of course one must get through "Tempest-tost" first, for a bit of background.
An early work of Davies', nothing really happens in this first book of the Salterton trilogy. However, the characters are terrific and you can't help feeling emotion toward them as you would real people.
Having read this in a couple days, I'm about to start the second book in this Salterton trilogy, Leaven of Malice. This was my introduction to Robertson Davies, and I've really enjoyed his sense of humor and his Canadians, whom I'm somehow predisposed to be very fond of.
Comedia de enredos muy entretenida y muy bien escrita. Quizá le falte fuerza a las escenas finales, pero es bastante disfrutable dentro de su ligereza.
Had to read it in college, reread it a couple years ago and still thought it was hilarious. I think the characters are just so well written.
This was a blast! My first Davies, his first novel. More to come. Hooray!
Reading a volume of Davies' letters I see a reference to Tempest Tost: Davies' writes to Harold Raymond of Chatto and Windus concerning remarks made about the book by the publisher's reader Cecil Day-Lewis (no less).
I'll just say that Lewis found Hector's extreme action late in the novel to be 'out of key with the book as a whole.' Davies' says anything less would have been 'feeble,' and I agree with him not Lewis in this case.
Davies' plays were often criticized for excessive dialogue or scenes in which characters talked...
Maybe because it's about Canadians putting on a Shakespeare production, but for some reason I was expecting something along the lines of the TV show Slings & Arrows, and this just didn't live up to that expectation.
It was fine, but I really only liked two characters, Freddy, who is a very minor character, and Valentine.
I wanted to like Solly but his mother was just so terrible it rubbed off on him.
The rest of the characters either bored or annoyed me.
The one saving grace of the book is that at least the worst of the characters didn't end up with happy endings.
I feel I should have enjoyed this book much more than I did. It’s effortlessly funny and witty and the characters are each one a world themselves, and although nothing really happens in this first book, characterisation makes up for it.I don’t know if I’m not having a great month, but while reading it I felt quite distracted so I’ll blame myself and not the book. I’ll probably read the second part at some other time, but I feel it wasn’t the right time for me to read and enjoy this as it deserved.
Robertson Davies has a brilliant sense of humour and also is a great study of people and personalities. Full of dry wit and characters who are portrayed in such a way that you know someone like them and can read them between the lines. While not as intellectual as his other work and without as many layers nevertheless this is still a fantastic read.
