https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46019.The_Skull_Beneath_the_Skin
I haven't read any of James's other work, so I don't know how this plot compares, but this book reads almost like someone challenged her write her own version of an Agatha Christie closed-house murder mystery.
This is the second installment of her adventures, and there are a lot of references to the first Cordelia Gray book, where she apparently investigated a murder with an older detective who trained her how to solve crimes, and frankly that sounds fun as hell, so I'll have to look that one up soon.
the novel appears to be PD James looking back at agatha christie by taking the basics of the classic murder mystery (an enclosed and gothic setting, a finite number of suspects, stylized characters)...and then updating it with all of the intricate details, narrative complexity, and emotionally nuanced characterizations of a later-period psychological thriller.
the scene in question is wonderful - per the book jacket, a "fairy-tale castle on the sunlit island of Courcy".
the language is surprisingly bright and sparkling - at least for a James novel.
despite the rather gleefully morbid title, this is an unusually bright-toned offering from the author.
I love PD James. This one was not predictable. I have to say that This was my book for waiting at appointments so it took me a while to read it. I picked it up at the VA and am returning it there.
I have always been curious about this book, with its awesome title out of T.S. Eliot, and was glad to have the chance to read it while driving around (although the cabin wind noise while on the highway means I may have missed some of it).The book is well-written and well performed.
Private Eye Cordelia Gray is hired as a bodyguard for an actress who is performing in The Duchess of Malfi in a small theater there.
Not a spoiler to say the actress is killed just before her performance.
If all mysteries ended this way, the genre would not be popular.
Still, if this upending of the genre is one last twist, I can enjoy it for once.
A bit of a far cry from her later books. The structure is there, but she makes some major leaps without bringing the reader along. Having read mostly her later books, this makes a nice contrast to see how she's grown as a writer.
گمونم میشه این کتاب را یکی از کتابهای پلیسی ژانر نوار حساب کرد، اگر اصلا چنین ژانری وجود داشته باشه. کمی بیش از حد لازم طولانی است و اجرای صوتی کتاب دو ویژگی آزار دهنده داشت: یکی اینکه دفعات بیشماری sheرا heتلفظ میکرد که اوایل گیج کننده بود بعد آزارنده شد، و یکی اینکه گاهی تشخیص عوض شدن کاراکتری که حرف میزد دشوار میشد.
گمونم میشه این کتاب را یکی از کتابهای پلیسی ژانر نوار حساب کرد، اگر اصلا چنین ژانری وجود داشته باشه‌. کمی بیش از حد لازم طولانی است و اجرای صوتی کتاب دو ویژگی آزار دهنده داشت: یکی اینکه دفعات بیشماری sheرا heتلفظ می‌کرد که اوایل گیج کننده بود بعد آزارنده شد، و یکی اینکه گاهی تشخیص عوض شدن کاراکتری که حرف می‌زد دشوار می‌شد.
The Skull Beneath the Skin looks back to the days when readers expected large dollops of philosophy and literary references along with their stories. This P D James novel contains references to John Webster’s The Duchess of Malfi (the play within a play), Nietzsche, Donne, Shakespeare, William Morris, the Bible, the Book of Mormon, E M Forster, Malory, Voltaire, Austen and Rattigan amongst others.  Bosola: Other sins only speak; murder shrieks out.The element of water moistens the earth,But bloo
This P D James novel contains references to John Webster’s The Duchess of Malfi (the play within a play), Nietzsche, Donne, Shakespeare, William Morris, the Bible, the Book of Mormon, E M Forster, Malory, Voltaire, Austen and Rattigan amongst others.
It was a direct reference to Webster’s The Duchess of Malfi in Agatha Christie’s Sleeping Murder: Miss Marple’s Last Case that led to me to read Webster in the first place.
All praise Dame Agatha and Baroness James.Although there is a cracking good murder mystery at the heart of The Skull Beneath the Skin, the book is slightly spoiled by the unsatisfactory device of inserting Girl Detective, Cordelia Gray, solely for the purpose of providing a character to whom the others can tell their innermost thoughts.
This story, the second in the Cordelia Gray series, is set in the very Agatha Christie like fictitious island off the Dorset Coast. The gathering was for the performance of Clarissa Lisle in the Duchess of Malfia. Cordelia was responding to the death threat messages received by Clarissa when she is cast into the midst of a murder investigation. The book is saved by the wonderful descriptive text used by P.D.James reminiscent of the great crime writers of the between wars era.
Private investigator Cordelia Gray has been hired by Sir George Ralston to accompany his wife, Clarissa, to Courcy Island, where Clarissa is to star in a play.
Cordelia’s mission is to keep the persistent poison pen letters away from Clarissa.
Protecting Clarissa from the letters is one thing, but protecting her from death is something else.
Also, as Cordelia searches for a piece of the missing puzzle on the mainland toward the end of the book, she makes a baffling error in judgment by not sharing a key piece if evidence with the police.
The Skull Beneath the Skin  is the last PD James I'm going to read for a while. I will say that this was a lot more fun to read than The Black Tower. I found Cordelia Gray to be a more sympathetic detective character than Dalgleish, and the plot followed a little more closely in the style of a classic English house-party murder. The downfall of this one is that the theatrical setting is such a cliché, with the self-absorbed diva and her circle of followers – even to the mysterious and devoted f
is the last PD James I'm going to read for a while.
I found Cordelia Gray to be a more sympathetic detective character than Dalgleish, and the plot followed a little more closely in the style of a classic English house-party murder.
The downfall of this one is that the theatrical setting is such a cliché, with the self-absorbed diva and her circle of followers – even to the mysterious and devoted female servant, the taciturn husband, the lover, etc, etc.
I suppose I'd consider reading another Cordelia Gray mystery in the future, but not for a while.
Although this book has all the elements of a mystery that I would really like, it failed to engage my interest. I don't know whether it was Cordelia or something else but I had to force myself to finish it.
I enjoyed reading this (on a plane ride) but was irked by two things: 1.) Cordelia was rather passive in her role as detective & didn't stand up for herself as much as I would have presumed she would & 2.) The reveal of 'whodunit' was anti-climatic to me. More of a, "Oh...that's it? That's all?"
PD James thriller with Greta Scacchi and John Moffatt.An magnificent plot, as usual, by Dame James.
Solid, creepy mystery, written with consistently dry humo(u)r. I quite liked it.
ספר מתח בריטי. כמה אנשים נמצאים בטירה באי ואחד מהם נרצח וכו׳.סך הכול רענון מספרי המתח המודרניים.
Cuando alzó los brazos para abrir las cortinas, Cordelia pensó que la evanescente luz de la estancia le estaba gastando una broma: el rostro sombreado de Clarissa parecía tan oscuro como el dosel, lo mismo que si su piel hubiese absorbido el vivo carmesí.”Me imagino que la escritora pensó en cruzar en algún momento a su heroína en alguna aventura con Adam, como en el anterior, su otro investigador aparece de forma indirecta en la narración en varias ocasiones, un Dalgliesh ya establecido y alejado de la esfera más policíaca:“Pero al menos Cordelia podía tener la certeza de que, quienquiera que visitara la agencia, no sería Adam Dalgliesh.
Slow to start with a decent buildup and a good conclusion. Figured out who the murderer was about three quarters of the way through.. but a decent enough finish. More like 3.5 stars.. will definitely try another PD James..
Very slooooow beginning for the first 180 pages (paper back 10-87) then it creeps toward a very unsatisfactory conclusion over 200 pages later. Not my favorite P. D. James.
A cette occasion, Cordélia doit intercepter les messages du corbeau avant qu'ils n'arrivent à destination.P.D James réunit sur une île isolée différents personnages avec des profils psychologiques très intéressants : Roma la cousine intéressée par l'argent de Clarissa ; Simon l'enfant adoptif ; Ambrose, le propriétaire excentrique du château ; George le mari trompé ; Ivo l'amant par intermittence et Cordélia la détective peu expérimentée.Chaque personnage, de l'invité au domestique, a quelque chose à cacher.
Finalement, Clarissa est une personne peu apprécié par son entourage car elle est superficielle et égocentrique.
James takes much of what she learned from composing twenty years of crime fiction and transplants these lessons onto Cordelia Gray, who is simply not as robust a creation as Adam Dalgliesh.
James has overcome most of her prudishness by this point but when she suggests carnal motives she's still entirely too coy.The Skull Beneath The Skin is not exactly an exemplar of James' work, and it's baffling that this is the text that they choose to teach crime fiction in Australian schools.
It's more than competent, but it has none of the elevation of spirit that her best work provides.
We travel to an island with Gray and said actress, watch said actress give the remaining characters in the book enough reason to kill her (if mysteries to be believed), and die.
It was just too damn similar to the only other Gray book out there (it is so similar that the way the killer tries to kill her is the same, I really can't believe that no one else has pointed this out yet).Another issue is that it reads like an Agatha Christie novel for people with literary aspirations (and like at least some character development).
As usual, there is a lot going on in this book besides the mystery itself.
Essentially, this is the traditional closed-room mystery.
There are only a certain number of people who could have committed the crime, and no one particularly cared for her either so there are lots of motives.By the end, the killer essentially goes free, two other people die, but no one goes to prison.
In typical James' fashion, good doesn't always save the day, and bad doesn't always end up losing.
Good psychological study.
The second of the Cordelia Gray series by P D James, wherein Adam Dalgleish, her famous Inspector has only a passing mention.
I liked the initial 3/4ths of the book – it was a very cozy read – a fading theatre artist who is giving a private performance at a remote island castle belonging to her friend.
She is besieged by poisonous hate mails and is fearing her life, though no one believes that her life is in danger.
Her current husband engages Cordelia Gray to be constantly with her and filter any hate mail in the three days she’ll be on her island tour.
Still, a readable cozy mystery.
I had no idea I'd read so much P.D. James.
I could only remember reading two of her books, but I remembered the first half of this book so strongly that I'm starting to wonder if having these books on my shelf for so long meant that I have somehow absorbed the contents of her novels through osmosis.
I really like Cordelia, so much so that I really want a happy ending for her.
It's probably more realistic that despite her best efforts, her intelligence and her energy, she never gets the success she so optimistically seeks ...
but it doesn't make me want to read the next book.
This was a reread of a novel I didn't have any memories of.
Cordelia is a wonderful character to walk along side as she tries to make sense of this very messy situation.
An almost close off mystery, it takes place on an island, where everyone plays false and lies a little or a lot.
The creepy factor is high but shown in a matter of fact way.
That adds to the creepy factor.
P.D. James makes the reader care about Cordelia and her motives to solve this mess.
The resolution is a bit melodramatic.
Still it's a very good read.
AD, Grey is not. A very atmospheric tale with a gothic feel. Once again, a secluded island is the setting. There is a murder obviously, and Cordelia solves it. Of course she gets into trouble first. I see her better as the finder of lost pets.
Took a long time to take off but was worth the wait in the end.
A classic closed room whodunit, ‘The Skull Beneath the Skin’ is the second of only two Cordelia Gray private detective mysteries by PD James.
I wonder why she didn’t write more?Gray’s fledgling detective agency is relying on finding missing cats when Sir George Ralston arrives unannounced to request Gray ensure the safety of his actress wife, Clarissa Lisle, at her next performance.
So Cordelia leaves for Courcy Island, location of an amateur private performance of ‘The Duchess of Malfi’ in which Lisle will play the starring role.
P.D.James wanted to prove that, with classic tropes, you could write a book set in modern times.
- with descriptions of basic things like a table or a curtain, you'd think that this was James attempt at trying to write a story with description balance with action, by a nervous teen in a test hall.
4. The ending.- please take this book as advice, don't write an ending like this.
5. Characters-in a poor attempt to make the characters relatable, James creates characters that are naive, horrid and completeky selfish.
James has done this in creating motives and focusing on a character's relatability and likability.
Granted, I'm the type of person who reads three or four books at a time, bouncing around from one to another, but this book was so slow I had to crawl to the end.
I usually finish books I love to read fairly quickly, but as you can tell from the stretch of time I took to read it, bringing myself back to reading this book after getting interested in others was grueling, to say the least.It seemed there was really nothing going on except strangers together on an island trying to solve the murder of one of their own (can you say Agatha Christie?).
