https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/308059.The_Age_of_Capital_1848_1875
The chapter on the arts alone is worth several times the price of admission.Among the many many things I learned: the origins of hipsterism. The phenomenon of bourgeois youth performing a brief, sterile, apolitical, highly stylised rebellion against the materialism of their parents by retreating into some dubiously artistic enclave and imitating the lifestyle of the working class is an invention of the Parisian bohème of the late 19th century. Like all the best insights, should have been obvious really.
It is good to read quality books on this subject that Le Pen recovers to put their sauce. This book provides an accurate history of capitalism, without concealing anything. What we discover in these pages is that basic capitalism was not a bad thing, he is made when men and politicians have used to consolidate their power. Those who today rightfully condemn this crazy machine that is capitalism, would be very surprised to see that it is their precursors that made this machine went crazy. An important book to read to understand the world.
Συνεχίζοντας με την ίδια ανορθόδοξη μορφή αφήγησης ο Eric Hobsbawm σε αυτό το βιβλίο ξεκινάει από τις επαναστάσεις του 1848 για να προχωρήσει στην επόμενη φάση της εξέλιξης της εποχής του καπιταλισμού. Το ενδιαφέρον στοιχείο είναι ότι ο συγγραφέας εκμεταλλεύεται το σχετικά πιο ειρηνικό της περιόδου που ασχολείται για να ασχοληθεί περισσότερο με τη ζωή των ανθρώπων που την έζησαν και τις αλλαγές με τις οποίες ήρθαν αντιμέτωποι. Ένα ακόμα εξαιρετικά διαφωτιστικό ιστορικό βιβλίο.
As brilliant as this is as a work of synthesis, I wonder if it might help to know something about the era before you start reading?
I knew a little, and it helped enormously.
Hobsbawm has a habit of referring to historical events which aren't generally well known as if they were as familiar as Beatles lyrics, which can be frustrating even if you know something about the time.
Hobsbawm himself recommends some out of print books for this purpose, and unfortunately I don't know any good books to read which are in print!
Many subjects we still study today had their origin during the mid-nineteenth century, a period when Education 'exploded', mainly at first in science for the development of Industry (the railways were a big thing of this period - they revolutionised the transportation of goods and travel more than anything ever had done prior, and nothing of any significance on the ground has done so since), later becoming more widespread, as with the growth of Capitalism came new machinery, more 'revolutionary' work methods etc that needed a marginally educated workforce.
This is a deeply frustrating book.
There's a lot of solid historical information and interesting insights here, but it's all buried in horribly convoluted writing.
This is coming from someone who's pretty comfortable with 18th century enlightenment writers like Gibbon, Johnson, and Smith.
I'm OK with complex sentence structure, but this is something else.
It's almost stream-of-consciousness, peppered with digressions, asides, unnecessary details, caveats, exclusions, qualifiers, and elliptical references.I suspect the problem is that he knows his subject too well, and has trouble adopting the perspective of someone new to the material.
I'm sure there's a lot to be learned from a patient and careful reading of this book, but boy, it'd be a slog.
After nearly a decade, I'm finally reading the fourth volume of Hobsbawm's seminal exploration of the past 200 or so years from a (more or less) Marxist perspective. Here, we have a focus on the rise of the bourgeoisie as such, and how their influence, both economically and culturally, disseminated throughout the modern world in the mid-19th Century. As with the others, there is perhaps an excessive focus on Europe, but also as with the others, it's a pretty stunning overview of a time.
No relata, sino que subdivide toda la información disponible en una serie de capítulos, que dan como resultado dos grandes ejes: Las Causas y sus Consecuencias (Más una breve, pero exquisita contextualización sobre la revolución de 1848).Al respecto, en este tomo, el autor resume el período posterior a la simultánea revolución Europea de 1848, como el del avance -y la consolidación- de una democracia liberal, pero, en especial -y hace bastante énfasis al respecto-, del comienzo del formato de división del trabajo que caracterizó al mundo hasta la irrupción de las economías asiáticas en el último cuarto del siglo XX.Aquel avance es lo más fundamental del escrito.

Super instructif
Voice 001The Age of Capital is the second part of Eric Hobsbawm's trilogy on the long 19th century (French Revolution till First World War) covering the period from 1848 through 1875.This is the period of the massive advance of the world economy of industrial capitalism and the social order it represented, ideas and beliefs which seemed to ratify it: reason, science, progress and liberalism.
This period is also THE period of the triumphant bourgeois and the chapter on bourgeois arts alone is worth reading the book.
الكتاب عميق جداً. يتحدث بإسهاب عن التاريخ الاقتصادي والسياسي والاجتماعي لاوروبا خاصة والعالم في الفترة التي ظهرت بها الرأسمالية بين العامين ١٨٤٨ وحتى ١٨٧٥ ، يحاول الإجابة بتفصيل كبير جداً عن سوال كيف ظهرت الرأسمالية وما تأثيرها في كل مناحي الحياة الأوروبية خصوصاً والعالم بشكل عام ؛ حياة الدول والشعوب والقارات.
I found the period itself too narrow and dull to sustain Hobsbawm dense summations -- though this is a very subjective rating.
And now on BBC One, The Age of Capital: The Director's Cut, with extra dinosaurs.
Profundo aunque obviamente no puede entrar en demasiados detalles.
Se puede leer sin saber demasiado sobre el tema, pero no menosprecia al lector, al contrario lo pone a prueba continuamente.
En ese sentido me sirvió leer en paraleleo  La Guerra Civil en Francia.
Como siempre en estos libros están muy buenos los capítulos de historia del arte.
Me gustaría saber más sobre eso también.
En ese sentido me da ganas no sé si de leer, pero si al menos tener una buena edición y hojear y mirar la  Historia del Arte de Gombrich.
De las guerras Napoleónicas debería leer algo más también.
In this second installment of a four part series on nineteenth and twentieth century history, Eric Hobshawm zooms in on the period when capitalism conquered the world and subsequently transformed politics, society, culture, science and mankind's entire worldview.
Biology saw the discoveries by Pasteur and Darwin - which changed the worldview (for better or worse) of many intellectuals, ideologues and interested lay people.In short: the period 1848-1875 saw the diffusion of the earlier revolutionary tension, the spread of capitalism and its societal consequences all over the world and the rise and fall of economic and hence political and military superpowers.
"very nice." you could probably have more fun times in this particular time period by reading "late victorian holocausts" by mike davis as a companion piece, or something. also there's a nice sentence where he's like "everyone was a liberal [in classical sense, obviously here folks] then, the way no one is now." guess hobsbawm circa '75 wasn't expecting thatcher and hadn't heard about what reagan had done to california/was planning on doing to america/the world [take a big alzheimer's crap on it/everything at an auspicious time as appointed by his astrologist]. hohoho, jokes on you old man bawmy.
Particularly strong accounts of the economic boom of the 1850s and the knitting together of the world into a single economy. The organization of the book into "developments" and "results" is frustrating though. Unlike in Age of Revolutions in which Hobsbawm has a clear argument for why this organization makes sense (understanding the development of the dual revolution and then seeing its effects) this history suffers from the division.
مؤرخ عالمي من النخب اﻷول، ومحلل موضوعي شمولي، يعيد بناء الصورة التاريخية بكافة جوانبها وظروفها وأسبابها، ابتداء من الثورة المزدوجة (الثورة الصناعية والثورة الفرنسية 1789) وحتى نهاية القرن العشرين. عبر مؤلفات أربعة ضخمة: عصر الثورة، عصر رأس المال، عصر الامبراطورية، عصر التطرفات. كتاب ممتع لمحبي التاريخ
we asked her where he husband was. ‘he’s in america.’ ‘what does he do there?’ ‘he’s got a job as tsar.’ ‘but how can a jew be tsar?’ ‘everything’s possible in america’, she answered. scholem alejchem, 1900.
dry as australia but good
Transizione e mutamentoQuesto libro tratta un periodo relativamente breve, inizia con l'ultima grande rivoluzione del secolo, o per meglio dire, di moti rivoluzionari forti, potenti, ma che si sono rivelati un fuoco di paglia, per terminare con la Grande Depressione com'è ciclico della storia umana almeno da due secoli a questa parte.
Ossia quello che gli autori originali volevano fosse un modo per guidare la transizione da un antico regime, fatto di servi e padroni, ad una nuova era in cui il capitale rischiava di tramutare il "nuovo regime" in schiavi e padroni.
Il che ha condotto, mentre ovviamente si cercava questa prova, anche all'imperialismo.
The analysis is very Marxist class based but there are a few chapters on science, religion, ideology and the arts at the end which feel a bit detached from the rest of the book.
This is welcome from the rather dry analysis of the changing structure of society, which is good in itself but sometimes you get a little lost in it the details.The book charts the growth of the bourgeoisie (basically people who get their money by owning productive capital as opposed to land or from rents) as a power class.
This comes through liberal politics and its outgrowth of progressiveness as opposed to reaction or tradition created strange bedfellows of capitalists and socialists.
Not only that, but I felt as his assumption about his readers' knowledge and level of understanding of economical and political situation of various countries during that time kept me off track.There are some very interesting analysis the development of art and how it related to the burgeois predominant way of thinking.
Nevertheless, it was a different kind of perspective for me and I appreciate having read The Age of Capital.
Now, I look forward to reading another perspective on the same period, perhaps to compensate this class-oriented examination.
Como abandonei, não posso dar nota.
Acho admirável o autor colocar logo no início do livro as posições políticas pessoais, o que na verdade fica bem claro enquanto vamos lendo.
Como não quero receber informações com viés político, vou continuar lendo os livros que desçam mais no detalhe dos fatos.
A análise mais macro e de grandes fluxos é interessante e já vi na Faculdade.
É interessante, mas distorcida, pois analisa de muito longe do dia a dia.
Por isso prefiro livros mais detalhados, e de autores menos apaixonados e políticos.De qualquer forma, minha opinião pouco importa, pois o livro é uma referência consolidada.
Hobsbawn, 1789-1848 arasını çifte devrim çağı olarak niteler. Bu eserde de 1848 devrimlerinin neden başarılı olamadığını, bu dönemde demir, elektrik, kimya, buhar gücü gibi teknik gelişmeler ve ABD'de bulunan altın madenlerine bağlı olarak küresel ticaretin yaygınlaşması üzerinden ele alıyor. Kapitalist ekonominin, küresel pazar kavramının 1720'lerde dahi olduğunu bilsek de 1860'lar artık gerçek bir tek dünya pazarının başlangıcı. İşte bu başlangıcı sürükleyici bir roman gibi açıklıyor Hobsbawn. Sanırım onun dünya tarihi, bir bütün olarak, herkes tarafından okunmalı.
The book with the highest density of the word 'bourgeois', i've ever read.Covers in detail, and often with too many statistics to absorb, the years 1848-75. I'd recommend readers to brush up on the period, as Eric often assumes a fair portion of knowledge about major events in the period.Otherwise more or lesson on par with the first book in the 'Age Of' series, with the same structure - i.e., not strictly chronological, but split into subjects, each covering the whole period with the occasional reference to another subject (i.e., chapter).In conclusion. Good history book. 4*
A Long review of all the volumes will come once I fully complete The Age quartet. Having been hitherto slightly indifferent to history before encountering these books, I've completely - thanks to hobsbawm - changed my perspective. Very rare, I think, that such a fundamental reorientation both of civic and historical sensibility of the kind I've undergone thus far is the result of a single author. I'll pay him this homage.
ستلتقط من الكتاب أفكاراً متناثرة هنا وهناك، لكنك لن تخرج منه برؤية واضحة تماماً عن الحقبة التي عالجها المؤلف، ربما يعود هذا لسببين: الأول: أن الكتاب ربما كان موجهاً للقارئ الأروربي بالدرجة الأولى . الثاني: لا بد وقبل قراءة هذا الكتاب أن يكون لدى القارئ رؤية واضحة عن التاريخ الأروبي ، يستطيع بعدها أن يتنوّر بتحليلات المؤلف وتفسيراته .
In terms of narrative, this suffers a bit from its blurred line at the end. This makes this volume - even more so than the Age of Revolution or the Age of Capital mostly a description of a status, not of a process. Its strongest part is the chapter on the bourgeoisie at the height of its vigor and influence.
