https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11990.The_Rebel
“Man’s disobedience and the loss thereupon of Paradise”, as well as Satan’s rebellion against the oppressive authority of God in Heaven are the two main strands in Milton’s classic Paradise Lost, to just name one of countless examples, summing up human experience in unforgettable drama.Camus analyses the topic from a philosophical and historical viewpoint, and gives a perfect example for his thesis on revolution and the development of mankind by writing this long reflective essay, rebelling against the predominant ideas of his own time.Starting with the metaphysical revolutions of the 18th and 19th centuries, but always with the disastrous contemporary world post 1945 in mind, Camus embarks on a quest to establish the nature and consequence of revolts and revolutions, and to define the limits within which it is still possible to justify violence and stay human.
530. L'Homme révolté = The Rebel, Albert CamusThe Rebel (French: L'Homme révolté) is a 1951 book-length essay by Albert Camus, which treats both the metaphysical and the historical development of rebellion and revolution in societies, especially Western Europe. Camus relates writers and artists as diverse as Epicurus and Lucretius, the Marquis de Sade, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Friedrich Nietzsche, Max Stirner, André Breton, and others in an integrated, historical portra
L'Homme révolté = The Rebel, Albert CamusThe Rebel (French: L'Homme révolté) is a 1951 book-length essay by Albert Camus, which treats both the metaphysical and the historical development of rebellion and revolution in societies, especially Western Europe.
Examining both rebellion and revolt, which may be seen as the same phenomenon in personal and social frames, Camus examines several 'countercultural' figures and movements from the history of Western thought and art, noting the importance of each in the overall development of revolutionary thought and philosophy.
.As soon as a man, through lack of character, takes refuge in doctrine, as soon as crime reasons about itself, it multiplies like reason itself and assumes all the aspects of the syllogism.
He writes only about the individual and his or her need for rebellion.
But Camus shows us how...Two centuries ahead of his time and on a reduced scale, Sade extolled totalitarian societies in the name of unbridled freedom.
Crime, which he wanted to be the exotic and delicious fruit of unbridled vice, is no more today than the dismal habit of a police-controlled morality.
Although I've always been temperamentally skeptical of Utopias, I'm thankful to Camus for completely inoculating me, as a 15-year-old, against the various postures of chic revolt so common among the teenagers of bored, affluent nations.
Revolution is generally a social calamity, a nightmare of inhumanity: one regime dissolves, and in the already violent chaos of meltdown various factions kill, rape and pillage in a struggle for ascendancy; the leaders of said factions tend to be nihilistic knaves (Lenin, Hitler) who would have lived, ranted, been ignored and died safely on the fringes of the old society.
But it has to be done really courageously and accurately.”I think Manny is one reviewer who has stood for what he feels is right and I join in to add my support by deciding not to review this work, which, as I read, I know will influence me for times to come.Posted with Manny's permission, his deleted review:In the shower just now, I suddenly had a Eureka moment.
2. If you think that one of your reviews has been unreasonably deleted by Goodreads, repost it with an image of the Hydra at the top.3.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، شاید میتوان گفت که این کتاب، پیچیده ترین و البته یکی از ارزشمندترین آثارِ <آلبر کامو> میباشد این کتاب از پنج فصل و حدوداً 33 بخش تشکیل شده است که مهمترین مسائلی که آلبر کامو به آن پرداخته است، بدین قرار میباشد: انسان طاغی- طغیانِ متافیزیکی- نیست انگاری- طغیانِ تاریخی- ترور- تروریسم فردی- قتل- تروریسم دولتی- ترور عقلی- طغیان و انقلاب- آدمکشی تاریخی- فراسویِ نیست انگاری---------------------------------------------عزیزانم، "انسانِ طاغی"، انسانی است که تحتِ سلطه و دستورِ دیگرا
‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، شاید میتوان گفت که این کتاب، پیچیده ترین و البته یکی از ارزشمندترین آثارِ <آلبر کامو> میباشد‎ این کتاب از پنج فصل و حدوداً 33 بخش تشکیل شده است که مهمترین مسائلی که آلبر کامو به آن پرداخته است، بدین قرار میباشد: انسان طاغی- طغیانِ متافیزیکی- نیست انگاری- طغیانِ تاریخی- ترور- تروریسم فردی- قتل- تروریسم دولتی- ترور عقلی- طغیان و انقلاب- آدمکشی تاریخی- فراسویِ نیست انگاری---------------------------------------------‎عزیزانم، "انسانِ طاغی"، انسانی است که تحتِ سلطه و دستورِ دیگران میباشد و همیشه جوابش <آری> بوده است...
انسان طاغی حکایت انسانی ست از بدو تاریخ، که از دوران هلنیستی و جهان یونانی و رومی گذر کرده و سنت کلاسیک را تا رنسانس و انقلاب کبیر فرانسه پیش برده است.
با ورود به جهان مدرن بسیاری از سنت های او توسط آلبر کامو نقد و بررسی می شود.
انسانی که راهی جز طغیان در پیش روی خود نمی بیند، زیرا جهان را هرگونه تنظیم کند، باز عصیان و مخالفت در کمین اوست.
آلبر کامو به مفهوم قدرت، تنهایی، مرگ، زندگی و جهان، تحلیلی فسلفی تزریق کرده و اثبات می کند حتی فلسفه نیز خیانتی بزرگ، در این قرن است!ما در عصر جنایت های کامل و با نیت های قبلی به سر می بریم.
Real generosity towards the future lies in giving all to the present.
From the century of rebellion (19th) we move on to the century of justice and ethics and, finally, to violent self-recrimination.Man, at the culmination of his rebellion, incarcerated himself; from Sade’s lurid castle to the concentration camps, man’s greatest liberty consisted only of building the prison of his crimes.And here we begin to see the birth of the Spiteful Demon, that is, the thing left over when we have destroyed all else, when we have taken Reason as a god instead of falling on reason in the arms of solidarity, ‘excess’ is now the means by which the slave can utilise a ‘...burden of guilt which increased in proportion to the degree of liberation they proposed to introduce.’There is much material here that I could explore in depth, but I’m going to limit myself to considering the projection of Camus’ ideas from The Rebel into our own milieu, and I want to use the examples of the Ivans—Karamazov and Kailiayev.
Despite this alive and fresh change, in order to move ahead, he needs to – kill.
But once came a day when people killed because they thought they had a rational philosophy for it.
In 19th century human beings killed God. They proved that there wasn’t any God for real in anytime.
A true nihilist killed himself a real one killed others.
The ideologies are different but I think they have so many similarities with each other; both believe in future, both believe in universality, and both of them kill.This book was written 60 years ago, but one can see that the idea is still new.
به علت ترجمه ی بد و متن سنگین و جذاب نبودن موضوع، نیمه کاره رها کردم.البته بی انصافی نکنم، بعضی بخش هاش که ترجمه بد نبود و متن هم سنگین نبود، خیلی برام جذاب بود، مثل بخش های مربوط به تحلیل برادران کارامازوف و مارکی دوساد.
Although Camus is remembered more as a literary author than a philosopher, I think this work is fantastic.
It's influenced me and my thinking more than any other author (apart from perhaps Nietzsche and George Steiner).
Because Camus is such a wonderful author it is also not a particularely difficult read, as opposed to, say, Sartre's philosophical works (I do like Being and Nothingness, but he's really overdoing it), which makes it accessible for those who have not been educated in philosophy as well.
The subject matter is also interesting for just about everything, which makes this altogether a pretty much perfect book.

I think he's certainly on to something here, but I think his reading of Marx is also somewhat flawed, in that Camus seems to disregard Marx's concern with emancipation and free conscious activity in his efforts to discredit the approach of the "prophet of justice." Camus posits a different approach to social change, claiming that rebels/revolutionaries, in their efforts to combat injustice, should never lose sight of the importance of beauty within the conception of human dignity.It seems that many so-called revolutionaries, though (probably more of the socialist-Marxist bent), would reject Camus' analysis as sentimental and, in fact, supportive of the status quo.

زمان دیگر چه اهمیتی دارد؟رنج برای آن کسی که به آینده ایمان ندارد هرگز موقتی نیست.اما ,یکصد سال رنج در چشم آن کس که ظهور "شهر جاودانی" را برای یکصدو یکمین سال پیشگویی می کند,چشم بر هم زدنی بیش نیست.روح طغیان در آن روند تفکری جان میگیرد که در نقطه ی عزیمت خویش بیهودگی ظاهری این جهان را پذیرفته باشد.تجربه ی بیهودگی جهام مایه ی رنج فرد است.اما,با آغاز یک جنبش طغیانی رنج تجربه ای جمعی-تجربه ی همه ی کسان-می شود.
صفحه به صفحه این کتاب باید خوند و عمیقا بهش فکر کرد.تو این کتاب کامو دیگه مثل قبلا یک داستان روایت ن
Από μια άποψη, το βιβλίο λειτουργεί σαν μεγεθυντικός φακός που εστιάζει στα μεγάλα προβλήματα που ενυπάρχουν στην δική μας εποχή, όπου η ρητορική της βίας, ο ευτελισμός της ηθικής ανωτερότητας της κριτικής σκέψης και η συνακόλουθη υποτίμηση της ελευθερίας του ανθρώπου του 21ου αιώνα, αποτελούν τα κύρια χαρακτηριστικά της.Ο Επαναστατημένος Άνθρωπος που χαρακτηρίστηκε ως «ένα από τα σπουδαιότερα µανιφέστα του ανθρωπισµού» (The Times) σίγουρα δεν είναι ένα εύκολο ανάγνωσμα, και απαιτεί την πλήρη νοητική συνέργεια του αναγνώστη.
Τι σημαίνει αυτό; Από πού πηγάζει; Είναι κάποιος κακός σπόρος στο dna των Γερμανών; Μπορεί να είναι τόσο απλή η εξήγηση; Και πως θα μπορούσε κάτι τέτοιο μέσω της βιολογίας να εξηγήσει το τρομερό παιδί των Ρώσων, το Νετσάγιεφ που αν είχε επικρατήσει, ο Χίτλερ μπροστά του θα ήταν ένα σκανταλιάρικο παιδί; Άρα κάτι άλλο υπάρχει.
Δεν υπάρχει απολυταρχικό σύστημα θα σου αποδείξει που στις ρίζες του να μην καίει πυρετωδώς ο μηδενισμός, αλλά ώσπου να στο πει αυτό θα σε έχει φτάσει απ’ την αρχή των χρόνων ως τη γέννηση του μηδενισμού και της αναρχίας, θα σε έχει περάσει από ρεύματα και φιλοσόφους που ποτέ δε φανταζόσουν πως θα μπορούσαν να έχουν οδηγήσει εκεί.
Usta döneminin siyasetinden ve politik duruşlarından özneyi sıyırmaya çalışmış ve postmodernist bireyci tutumunu bu deneme kitabında vermeye çalışmıştır.

Interesting book, though I also found it challenging to read. I don't know nearly enough about French literature or philosophy. But the basic question he asks is extremely relevant. We hate injustice, and intuitively it seems clearly right to revolt against unjust authority. So why does it nearly always go so wrong when we do so, and end up with an even worse injustice?

There were some frightening experiences, a bumpy ride (I feel mentally beaten up) and occasional views of the big picture (more beautiful, breathtaking, scary and profound than I had imagined).Albert Camus was very worried by the course of Russian Communism when he wrote this book in 1951.
Many Western thinkers of the day seemed to be instinctively drawn to communism and the contemporary Russian experience.Many overlooked the “Terror” and mentally excused the Russian elites authoritarian repression and murder of it's own citizenry.Camus worked from first principles trying to understand what was so obviously immoral and why the Revolution was so murderous.We are taken on a tour of Rebellion and Revolution...
In The Rebel, Albert Camus, the master of existentialism, analyzed the spirit of rebellion from the French Revolution to the Russian Revolution.
The Jacobins, rebelled against King and God and by making their principles divine, introduced the Reign of Terror.
From the killing of gods to the killing of kings, rebellions had ushered in the terrors of Hitler and then of Stalin.
Camus stated that absolute freedom leads to injustice and absolute justice stifles freedom and demonstrated it with examples from the French Revolution to the Russian Revolution.
It's not so much that Camus meanders as that he seems to take a very long, philosophical-historical route to reach the most obvious conclusion: Murder is always wrong, without exception – and whenever we champion a system of faith or justice or equality which justifies depriving others of life and liberty, we stumble into "nihilism" – or more simply, into inhumanity.Camus opens with the provocative aphorism "Man is the only creature who refuses to be what he is" – and concludes with a line worthy of a flower-child – "instead of killing and dying in order to produce the being that we are not, we have to live and let live in order to create what we are." But the meditative chapters in between are demanding and sometimes revelatory.This is far from my favorite book by Camus (I'm particularly fond of L'Étranger), but when he published it in 1951 it was an astounding feat of courage, earning him derision, isolation and the enmity of Sartre & Co. He is a hero to me, most of all in his refusal to be one.
You know those kinds of books which you read amid the din of everyday life and you eventually finish while the whole time you realize that so much has gone past, gone by, that you can only feel the whoosh of wisdom, ideas and reflections going right over your head?That's sort of how I feel about this book.
It's the sort of feeling when you are reading more or less the way you usually do- a lot of attention here, too little attention there- and all the while you just know in your bones that you're going to have to re-read it.Such power, such insight, such scholarship, just a magnificent writer delving into some of the most pressing issues of our time.
Ένα τέτοιο δοκίμιο δεν μπορεί να σχολιαστεί (θεωρώ) εδώ. Απαιτείται συζήτηση πρόσωπο με πρόσωπο. Το μόνο που μπορώ να πω, είναι ότι αξίζει να διαβαστεί. Έχει πάρα πολλά στοιχεία (άλλα με τα οποία θα ταυτιστεί κανείς και άλλα θα τα απορρίψει), τα οποία δίνουν τροφή για σκέψη και για συζήτηση.
On page 303 of Albert Camus's windy, long-form essay on the nature of rebellion, the failures of religion, Nihilism and Marxism, he approaches the point: "Man can master in himself everything that should be mastered.
Dimitri Karamazov's cry of 'Why?' will continue to resound; art and rebellion will die only with the last man."My gripe with this book has less to do with any specific disagreement with its content than an inability to justify why Camus needed three hundred pages to state the obvious.
These occasional moments of illumination are almost worth the slog."The world is divine because the world is inconsequential.
He has no regard for preserving the past, is obsessed with what the fruit of his present moment will provide for the future.-Rebellion always starts as a necessity, from a real or perceived need in society.-The real rebel *is* one of the people that he desires to liberate, does not hold himself higher than anyone else.
"One day things will be better.") He places his hope in the present (i.e.
