https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1043987.Metropolis
Στο βιβλίο λοιπόν παρουσιάζεται η Metropolis, μια φουτουριστική μεγαλούπολη με πενήντα εκατομμύρια κατοίκους, όπου οι εργάτες ζουν εξαθλιωμένοι σε υπόγειες κατοικίες, πολλά μέτρα κάτω από την επιφάνεια της γης, εργάζονται δέκα ώρες την ημέρα (ακατάπαυστα χωρίς αργίες) προκειμένου να συνεχιστεί η απρόσκοπτη λειτουργία των μηχανών - οι οποίες παρουσιάζονται ως θεότητες του μέλλοντος - είναι αναλώσιμοι και σύντομα πρόκειται, σύμφωνα με το σχέδιο του ιδρυτή της πόλης να υποκατασταθούν από τις μηχανικές εκδοχές τους (ρομπότ).
This book is a story which grows on the understanding that: "The mediator between brain and muscle must be the Heart." —Thea von HarbouInspired by Troy's posts on all things Metropolis, I finally managed to watch the film and read the book by Fritz Lang's wife Thea von Harbou.
(Btw, I read the German original and cannot speak for the English - or any other - translation on this.)With other books, the overly dramatic writing would have caused me to dislike the book, but for Metropolis - whose story and imagery (even in the book) is based on the constant struggle between extremes (like the "head" v "hand", the "above" v "below", "man" v "machine", etc.) - it worked.
Ich ertappte mich, dass ich mich über diese schwulstige bildhafte Sprache langsam lustig machte und das war der Zeitpunkt dem Spaß ein Ende zu bereiten.
Ich brach bei 40 % ab.Trotz des Abbruchs vergebe ich einen zweiten Stern, denn faszinierend fand ich, wie man beim Lesen dieser melodramatischen Passagen die Szenen des Films von Fritz Lang in den Kopf bekam.
Ich bin wirklich beeindruckt, wie Lang dieses Buch von seiner Frau in einen der besten Stummfilme aller Zeiten verwandeln konnte.
Die Geschichte dieser Zwei-Klassen-Gesellschaft wirkte auf mich wie ein Alptraum.
Für mich war es leider nicht das Richtige.
Some characters and subplots contribute nothing to the whole and are completely omittable, while the novel has altogether neither structure nor flow, and merely leaps from one pompous scene to the next, often unfortunately smothering even the elementary dramatic devices (mistaken identity, personal vengeance, recognizing a higher goal and working towards it, etc.)No pun intended, but the characters show… no character.
(Fun Fact: If you’re motherly but not virginal, you die at childbirth, having played your part.
If you’re neither motherly nor virginal, then you’re a demon robot set on destruction through seduction.
I suggest the book Metropolis as an interesting supplement to the great silent movie.
As a sci-fi novel in its own right, however, it’s...
Once or twice a chapter, that’s annoying.Taken in a vacuum, the book doesn’t have much going for it.
The character who best benefits from the extra attention, though, is Rotwang.
In the book, Rotwang is not villainous at all.
He is purely a victim, partly of Joh Fredersen, and partly of the fact that he is a huge tool who cannot pass up a good intellectual challenge.
I almost had a feeling that I'm reading a script for a theatre piece.
so do the characters of Metropolis.I haven't read more original story for a long time.
I never really liked sci-fi books/movies so I was quite skeptical in the beginning but as a fan of old cinema I had to watch the screening of Thea von Harbou's novel if only to have my own opinion about it.
I don't want to spoil the fun of reading this book, most of all to those who are not familiar with the movie.
When looking for novels that I have already seen the movie, I was excited to see Metropolis.
I enjoy watching older movies and silent films are rather interesting in their limited words but needing to explain the plot.
I have several silent films on my list; another 1925 silent movie "The Wind" by Dorothy Scarborough which was a terrific read for those interested.
I enjoy reading older books for many reasons and one is the time traveling back in history where a book or film will take you.
Having seen the movie the first time so long ago I could not remember the actors.
While Lang left Germany in the early 30s von Harbou remained and her career in the wartime German film industry is rather controversial.The city of Metropolis is dominated by the will of Joh Fredersen.
Lang and von Harbou had co-written the screenplay so that while the novel was von Harbou’s work alone it’s likely that these Catholic themes were carried over from the movie.Much of the impact of the movies comes from the extraordinary visuals but von Harbou does an effective job in conveying the character of Metropolis by purely verbal means.There’s perhaps just a touch more sentimenality in the novel than I recall from the film.The movie’s status as one of the great dystopian science fiction tales is secure.
Es uno de los mejores libros que he leído este año.Pese a que usa una prosa bastante grandilocuente, Thea Von Harbou (esposa de Lang), nos mete de lleno en este mundo futurista (según lo imaginó en al década del 20); en donde dos clases sociales totalmente opuestas viven en esta ciudad de 50 millones de habitantes.
Metropolis is one of my all-time favorite movies. Reading this helped me appreciate the depth of what Lang was portraying in that movie. The story is mostly the same: the main difference is a deeper look at the characters and their motivations, since the novel offers more dialog and introspection than a silent movie's intertitles. Definitely worth reading if you like the film.
Aparente distopía que va mutando en fábula apocalíptica y redentora. En la creación del mundo futuro de sus primeras páginas encuentra sus mejores momentos, así como en la descripción de la pesadilla de la catedral. La segunda parte, más llena de acción, no mejora el tono, que es mucho más apropiado cuando emplea imágenes poderosas por un lado y la elipsis por otro.
I think there was more to Georgi's story in the movie, but most of those parts were cut out and lost.It was interesting to find out that even small details in the movie were taken directly from the book, such as the way Frederson puts his hands on his head and falls to his knees when he sees Freder and Rotwang fighting.
When the power cut off the pumps stopped working and the water rushed in.I just remembered to add this- In the movie the violent revolt of the workers brought about by the fake Maria is explained by the fact that she was basically crazy and Rotwang lost control of her.
I personally was a little turned off by it, but the story itself is so wonderfully mythic and archetypal (like a classical myth dressed up in the Art Deco of the Roaring Twenties with some steampunk thrown in for good measure) that I was able to look somewhat past the clunky prose and hammy dialogue.There's also a lot more religious imagery here than in the movie.
The story is great and so are some of the characters, but the sometimes clunky prose and dialogue and ham-handed religious imagery could be a potential turn-off.
Could be me growing up.Some issues; the end is somewhat anti-climatic, and if you look deep enough you can see a mild emergence of early fascism (maybe I'm seeing this better after coming off of reading The Coming Race), as well as the reassurance of the religion of the mysterious house-builder ("the copper-red Seal of Solomon, the pentagram," repeated at least twenty times in middle of the book), is somewhat disconcerting.
In Japan there is a difference between "water trade" which is merely to entice and get riled up, and prostitution.
The use of a yoshiwara in metropolis indicates activities that might not have gotten by the german censors as easily at the time.
XXX would be the contemporary equivelant.The mindset in Germany at the time this was written allowed for deeply religious themes alongside the themes implied by yoshiwara.This is a book of strong themes, opposites, contrasts, and is comfortable being that.
I haven’t seen the 1927 Fritz Lang movie based on this novel – a movie which is by all accounts a significant landmark of early cinema – but it’s not hard to see why the novel inspired Lang.
It’s a parable of modernity, a tempest, operatic and kinetic, full of religious iconography and Biblical visions.
It’s also full of stuff that I generally approve of in fiction, such as future cities, robots, pleasure palaces, mad scientists, appalling horror, heroic struggles against authoritarian machinery, class war, fist fights in high places, and so forth.
I’m giving it four stars as a hat tip to its cultural significance, although it should only get three for goodreadness.
Unfortunately the lack of an image does not give this book justice, its in fact a large format (over A4) with generous illustrations.
this is the first reason why I gave it 4 stars since I agree with the other comments on this books that the use of English is sometimes a little hard going and they do like to labour the point.
The other reason why I hold this book in high esteem is the film itself.
I will not comment about the story as anyone who has heard of it will know of it but least to say if you want to own a copy Metropolis this I would recommend as being the one.
Another book enjoyed on the iPhone, albeit with many errors in the transcription. Thea von Harbou's life story is so interesting, what with her being an actress and a writer on the side who eventually joined up with the Nazis and died as a cleaning lady, shunned for her Nazi ties. Her novelized Metropolis is deliciously dark and well written.
Με κούρασε, είδα το όραμα, αλλά ταλαιπωρήθηκα και δεν το ήθελα.Δύο μέρες πριν τη δω, είχα ξεκινήσει το βιβλίο, εννοείται όμως δεν το τελείωσα ποτέ μετά από εκείνη την εμπειρία.ΤΡΟΜΕΡΟ ΛΑΘΟΣ επειδή προφανώς ΤΟ ΒΙΒΛΙΟ ΕΙΝΑΙ ΠΑΝΤΑ ΚΑΛΥΤΕΡΟ ΑΠΟ ΤΗΝ ΤΑΙΝΙΑ.Το Μετρόπολις είναι ένα τρομερά επίκαιρο βιβλίο, γραμμένο με πάθος και ένα όραμα σαν αυτά που βλέπουν κάτι γέροντες μασώντας φύλλα δάφνης γύρω από φωτιές σε ινδιάνικα χωριά.
Ένας πατέρας δυνάστης, ένας γιός τυφλωμένος από τον έρωτα, ένας δαιμονικός μάγος επιστήμονας που θέλει να καταστρέψει κάθε τι ζωντανό, ένας τυφλωμένος από μίσος ιερέας και μέσα σε όλα αυτά μία γυναικεία παρουσία που μοιάζει να διαφεντεύει τους πάντες με τελικό προορισμό την Ελευθερία.Σημαντικό, σημαντικότατο βιβλίο, δε με φτάνουν τα αστεράκια.
The superelite (the 1% in contemporary parlance) controls the proles (the rest) with a ruthless efficiency.
With the rise of AI and robotics, it is hard to consider the masses today as important to the superelite as they were when this book was written (1925) - the masses will soon be surplus to requirements.
Long live the masses!This novel combines ancient myths (including that of Moloch, the devouring God), vivid description, rich characterisation, and symbolism to great effect.
Nobody is going to confuse Thea von Harbou with Leo Tolstoy, but the best dystopian novels offer us visions of the future.
Fredersen's only son, Freder, falls in love with a working class girl named Maria, who turns out to be the leader of a clandestine, semi-religious worker's movement, which awaits the coming of a "Mediator" to improve their position.
Freder, after switching places with a worker named Georgi (but known officially as 11811) decides to take on the job of "Mediator", but is discovered by his father and the villainous inventor Rotwang.
More importantly, it heavily emphasizes a religious (part Christian, part pagan) symbolism which is present but not emphasized in the film, thus presenting a somewhat different "meaning" from that projected by the movie.Of course, nearly all novelizations fall short of the movies they're based on, but this book is totally awful.
Boring
Filmi anlayabilmek için mutlaka kitabı okumak gerekiyor. Özellikle ruhani öğelerin yer aldığı pasajları filmde -üstelik sessiz filmde- anlamak imkansız gibi. Kitapta bazı şeyler daha net.http://www.kitaptanfilme.com/2017/10/...
Beautiful writing and good story, but I just felt that I was missing something. Was it an allegory? Was something lost in translation?
Non è una lettura facile, in quanto il simbolismo in questo romanzo abbonda.Eppure avevo visto anche il film muto sceneggiato dall'autrice per il marito, il regista Fritz Lang, certamente un film di difficile visione oggi, per via del muto e di certi momenti privi di ritmo e scene che sembrano ridicole viste oggi ma che nel 1912, quando Thea Von Harbou le immaginò, avevano tutt'altra, drammatica, valenza.E poiché mentre terminavo Metropolis iniziavo Quo Vadis, del 1895, non posso fare a meno di notare alcuni forti paralleli nella trama e in alcuni personaggi.
Weeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeell. That was, without a doubt, the most histrionic, melodramatic, hysterical and portentous piece of writing that I've ever read. when turned into celluloid it became wonderful. Without sound, Fritz Lang used this tale to create images like thisIt really was the literary equivalent of the heightened acting and direction of what was (and still is) a groundbreaking and extraordinary piece of cinema. Unfortunately, it doesn't really work in print and I found myself laughing rather than gasping in excitement.(#23 in my Year of Reading Women)
This book is an event which blooms from the realization: Mediator between the brain and the head must be the heart".This is my translation of the foreword of the book, which I am lucky to be able to read in German.Since the writing style is a mix of expressionistic symbolism and romantic Sturm-und-Drang-ish descriptions I am quite sure that any reader in English or any other translation had no chance of enjoying the book.Fritz Lang gave his own reply to Frau von Harbou's introduction:"The main work was of Miss Harbou, but I am responsible of at least 50% of it since I directed the movie.
This is a strange book.
But it does work up to a big climax.The Kindle version I read, by Internet Archive, was poorly proofed - so bad that I think it was not proofread at all after being scanned from print to ebook.
Here is a sentence that was fairly typical throughout the book: Ahlbrow to brow with herthen mouth to mouth-eyes closedbreathing.
These added to the difficulty of the reading.
It was slow going; A book of fewer than 200 pages, yet it took me nine evenings to read it.The book was written in conjunction with the famous 1927 silent film.
-Obra revolucionaria en varios sentidos.-Género. Ciencia-Ficción.Lo que nos cuenta. Freder, hijo del amo y señor de la ciclópea ciudad de Metrópolis Joh Fredersen, escapa de la vigilancia de su guardián y guardaespaldas Slim haciéndose pasar por el obrero 11811 y desencadena una serie imprevisible de acontecimientos en la ciudad. Novela escrita por la autora a partir del guión de la película homónima, escrito a medias por el director Fritz Lang y su esposa, la propia Thea (con discusión entre los expertos sobre el orden real de acontecimientos).¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
No color in this novel from which Fritz Lang adapted his amazing film. Black eyes and white flames. Maria's lips were red. The workmen's uniforms were blue. I think the sky was brown once. The descriptions of the robot (alternately referred to as Parody or the Futura) interested me; a slinky crystal being with transparent skin. I guess it's science fiction. It was awful existential. I mean truly awful. The dialogue was impossible. "Freder...Freder..." The more I think about it the more generous I think I'm being with two stars.
