https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41014257-my-dear-hamilton
The heritage that Alexander carried would never leave him and though he was brilliant, he carried around this blight on his character like a second skin.The couple fell in love, married and went on to have seven children while they also for ten years raised the orphan daughter of a friend.
Life was not easy for Eliza, being the mother to eight children, coping with the demands of her husband's position and dedication to what he believed and living with a man who was never known for staying quiet even when his thoughts and his words inflamed others.
(Or relearn since I’m sure the good people who issued my H.S. diploma did touch upon this period back in the day.)Before I go on to list everything I loved about this book, I’m just going to put this out there: There was not a single thing I had an issue with.
Like many of the most loved and respected women in history, Eliza was a force.
Though this is Eliza’s story, I really enjoyed getting to know Hamilton through the eyes of the authors.If you love historical fiction and books with strong female characters, My Dear Hamilton is a must read!
She was the wife of Alexander Hamilton longer than she was Elizabeth Schuyler, daughter of a general, and she was a widow much longer than she was a wife.
However, Mrs. General Hamilton’s story is peopled with the flawed historic men and women who fought and struggled to create a nation.
Prepare yourself for a rollicking read about battles, balls and betrayal; the first sex scandal, duels, political intrigue and the examination of a complicated union between complicated people.
I believe, in the not too distant future, I will read Ron Chernow’s much lauded biography, Hamilton.
But then, as a young woman contemplating marriage, the Arnold situation was a stark reminder that to marry a man was to share his fate and be vulnerable to all his decisions and mistakes.________An entire generation was growing up in a world without sure principles by which to live in peace.
And he couldn’t win an argument if I didn’t start one.________I knew my husband regretted this woman.
“I do so choose to live with you, Alexander Hamilton,” I said, as if it were a wedding vow.
Her father, Philip Schuyler, held to the personal philosophy "forgiven and forgotton." These words will resignate throughout her almost century long life.
During Alexander's life Elizabeth "Eliza" would support her husband and forgive his infidelity.
In short, Alexander Hamilton was a greater man than the country deserved, and I wasn't enough of a patriot to willingly give him back." Hamilton died from participating in a duel with Aaron Burr.
Eliza's first born son, Philip, died in a duel three years before his father's death.
"Who was Alexander Hamilton?
But we love them anyway." I highly recommend this well written, historical fiction novel centered around Eliza Schuyler Hamilton.
First I want to say that this is a book that I was really thrilled to get the chance to read.
And, I'm glad to say that the book was just as good as I had hoped it to be.
My Deat Hamilton is a massive novel, almost 700 pages and it took me around 2,5 days to read it.
I was lucky enough to have a weekend off and let me tell you that it's the kind of book that that, despite the size of it, never get boring alt
My knowledge of Alexander Hamilton and his wife Eliza Schuyler Hamilton was not great before I started to read this book, which for me was a plus.
Also, this book may have been about Alexander and Eliza, but I simply came to adore Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette from the very first time he appeared in the story.
I will end this review by saying that My Dear Hamilton is a fabulous novel which gives an insight into the marriage between Alexander and Eliza but also shows the foundation of the United States that we know today.
And, the book also shows how good friends fell out and turned on each other...
She met Alexander Hamilton when he was an aide-de-camp to General Washington during the Revolutionary War. Although Eliza had other suitors, she fell in love with the charming, handsome Hamilton and they were wed in 1780.Alexander Hamilton is portrayed as a brilliant, hard-working man who had important roles in the war and in the new United States government.
His opposition was Thomas Jefferson and his friends who favored strong state governments.
In her later life, Eliza did important work with charities helping widows and orphans, and with a school for children of former slaves.I enjoyed this fictionalized biography of Eliza Hamilton.
I have read several historical romances detailing the relationship of Alexander Hamilton and Eliza Schulyer, and this is by far my favorite.
Stephanie Dray captures the perfect blend of history, romance and character development, using Alex’s past as an illegitimate child throughout the novel and his insecurities to inform the choices he makes throughout his adult life.
It’s so well-developed through Eliza’s perspective, and focuses not only on Hamilton’s mistakes, but his emotional state, his insecurities, and their growth in their marriage, as well as a deep and abiding love, which makes it very, very enjoyable from the perspective of a romance read, despite the historical facts which cannot be refuted.

I've been bingeing on history lately. I enjoyed this historical novel focusing on Elizabeth Schuyler Hamilton.
Another tour de force from the this dynamite writing team! What a story! What a life!Highly recommended.
Easily my favorite book of 2018 and I highly doubt anything will knock it out of that #1 spot. I'm left with goosebumps. Such a rich book. Chock full of history and so engrossing. If you love history, you'll love this book. I'm left respecting Hamilton the founding father but truly loving his wife, Eliza.
We know who Alexander Hamilton is, an iconic American figure that helped shaped the United States.
I loved to learn that Eliza had a great influence over Alexander and more than matched his zeal and passion for the new country.
Alexander Hamilton helped shape the country but also was part of the first political sex scandal.
Eliza was betrayed by Alexander but theirs is still a great relationship .
But we still love them anyway." How I hope that Dray and Kamoie keep deligting us with these books.
I received this book for free from Publisher in exchange for an honest review. This does not affect my opinion of the book or the content of my review.My Dear Hamilton captured my attention and my heart.  And that's coming from a woman who hated American History classes.  I wish history books in school were written this way. I might have enjoyed it a lot more.  My Dear Hamilton tells the story not of Alexander Hamilton but of his wife Eliza Schuyler Hamilton.  It’s a story of her life journey a
My Dear Hamilton tells the story not of Alexander Hamilton but of his wife Eliza Schuyler Hamilton.
It also shows her views on life, her patriotism, and her dedication to her cause.“..heartbroken against relentless losses..”;  Eliza encountered one tragedy after the next in her adult life.
This lady was not just a survivor, she was pretty kickass in her days.Authors Stephanie Dray and Laura Kamoei did a remarkable job telling Eliza’s story.
I love that this author duo decided to write books about the women in our American history.
I really enjoyed this book, but as a personal manner, I absolutely cannot handle reading about cheating situations. I did not make it as far as the cheating scandal because I can already feel it looming ahead and I'm already getting upset... unfortunately I have to put this away and call it a day. What I did read, though, I LOVED (up to page 210) and I cannot wait to read more by Stephanie Dray.
Now it's been almost a week since I finished reading My Dear Hamilton (while I'm writing this review) and I have such a book hangover from the book.
And I did cry a couple of times, which is really out of character for me when reading books so that should give you a good idea of how powerful this book was.Also, with a novel co-written by Stephanie Dray and Laura Kamoie you can be 100% sure that it'll be extensively researched, with quotes directly from primary sources.
Overall, My Dear Hamilton by Stephanie Dray and Laura Kamoie is a captivating, powerful and unputdownable read.
For fans of “America’s First Daughter” and all fans of histfic, my full 5+⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ review of “My Dear Hamilton” is on my blog. What you need to know is that It’s my fav read of the year so far!. Eliza Hamilton is an inspiring woman, patriot, loving wife, political partner, loyal friend, supportive sister, and devoted mother of eight. Read my full review to find out more about this feisty, adventuresome, supportive, faithful, intelligent, independent, devoted, and compassionate woman. Can you tell I
For fans of “America’s First Daughter” and all fans of histfic, my full 5+⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ review of “My Dear Hamilton” is on my blog.
Eliza Hamilton is an inspiring woman, patriot, loving wife, political partner, loyal friend, supportive sister, and devoted mother of eight.
Read my full review to find out more about this feisty, adventuresome, supportive, faithful, intelligent, independent, devoted, and compassionate woman.
Can you tell I loved and admired her?
I highly recommend “My Dear Hamilton” as a companion read to Chernow’s “Alexander Hamilton” and Hamilton the Musical....trust me, put this compelling read on your TBR!
This was a wonderful and fascinating book. It’s called a novel, and I don’t know how much was true and how much was fiction. I imagine though that it is mostly true. Since I am not a history fanatic, I knew very little about the details of the Revolutionary War, and found a lot of new information. Definitely worth reading.
Both authors wrote beautifully and I never felt like I was reading an entirely different style.I love that these two seem to be making their way through the untold stories of the women behind the founding fathers.
If you have caught Hamilton fever to maybe you just like US History, or strong women, or untold stories….whatever your interests are this book has something for you to enjoy.
Even if you aren’t into history at all, Eliza is such a strong character with an interesting life that you won’t even feel like you’re reading history!See my full review here
I took a break from my Christian genre to read this book.
Fortunately, I have had studies which already revealed the incredible instrumental role Alexander Hamilton played...and with the rise to fame of the musical Hamilton he’s someone everyone wants to know more about!
Sure this book reveals some rather sordid affairs—but he WAS the nation’s first sex scandal.
I wouldn’t recommend this book for children or really any teenagers unless you are comfortable with them reading about “marriage relations” (even in a not sordid or raunchy manner.
There are so many things that don't make it into our history books and while I wish it were different, at least there are authors out there that are willing (and capable, oh, so capable of telling) these stories.I loved that this book was told from Eliza's first person point of view.
I loved seeing how she thought about the different things that were going on throughout the book.
It's always interesting to me to read about other people's personal perspectives on all of the names that do get a chance to be seen in the history books.
I am not usually a historical fiction fan.
Romantic fake historical fiction, yes.
Actual historical fiction, no.2.
I’ve never seen the play “Hamilton” but it is based on Alexander Hamilton’s story and this book is about his wife, Eliza.That being said, WOW!
This book is an incredibly woven tale about the true life of Eliza Schuyler Hamilton.
The authors have obviously dedicated thousands of hours of research into the Hamiltons’ historical papers and it has paid off.
The book itself is massive with over 600 pages and I just wanted it to never end!
I received a copy of this book through the Goodreads giveaway program. This was the best book I have read in quite awhile. Some of my favorite books both fiction and nonfiction have to do with the Revolutionary War and its figures so this book already had that going for it. The characters in the book are so vivid and multi-faceted. I thoroughly enjoyed going along with Eliza's struggles to understand her complicated husband and their relationship. This is definitely a book that I'll read again.
Eliza is a force of her own! MY DEAR HAMILTON is the perfect blend of history, adventure, and romance. This novel is not to be missed!
Betsy matures into “Eliza” and Hamilton moves into private life after his pivotal role in founding and anchoring the new country.
Marriages have ups and downs, and this one is presented in a way that pulls Hamilton out of history into his own living room.
Curt comments and acts of sympathy show that Hamilton’s deprived childhood remains with him.
You mourn for her when her husband’s affair is exposed and he owns up to it in a way that could not be more embarrassing and hurtful to his wife and family.
The reader, like Eliza, wants to draw some conclusions about Hamilton, his character and his feelings about her and their marriage.
Fans of Hamilton will adore this exquisitely researched novel, which tells the story of Elizabeth Schuyler, the general's daughter and fiery revolutionary who will become Alexander Hamilton's wife. The book wonderfully chronicles her thrilling life, through courtship and marriage, to war and betrayal, and ultimately to loss when Hamilton is killed in a duel, leaving her to carry on his legacy.
Eliza, known as Betsy as a child, is the daughter of General Philip Schuyler.
She has many admirers, but once General George Washington's aide, Alexander Hamilton, catches her eye she is smitten.
This is big deal, because although Alexander Hamilton is an up and coming person in society, he isn't financially secure.
But Eliza doesn't care; she is in love.
What ensues is a lifetime of adventure in politics, love, war, and romance.
Stephanie Dray and Laura Kamoie bring Eliza Schuyler to life in My Dear Hamilton and it was a thrilling and heartbreaking ride.Read the rest of my review here: http://www.confessionsofabookaddict.c...
Another winner from Kamoie and Dray. If you love historical fiction, this book about Eliza Hamilton cannot be missed. It's quite long, and there is a LOT going on, but she lived until 97! It's mind-boggling to think of all she saw (of a very important part of our country's history), and the various tragedies she faced. I enjoyed the depicted relationship with the Madisons (I love Dolley who was "Jackie" before Jackie was) and, above all others (even the marriage to her suddenly popular husband) the relationship with her sister was riveting and heartfelt. A must-read.
Thank you goodreads giveaways for an advanced copy of My Dear Hamilton.I do not hand out 5 star ratings often, but My Dear Hamilton deserves 5 stars - or more, it was my favorite book of the year!
I was at first intimidated by the length - over 600 pages - but they just flew by when reading.
I love how Stephanie Dray and Laura Kamoie makes history very interesting and real.
They tell the story of Alexander Hamilton and the founding of the country through the eyes of his wife, Eliza.
I LOVED this book - it is beyond fabulous!!
2  starsIt's not a bad book, I mean it's about America's history but I found it so boring. I wanted more juice, like more of the drama between Angelica and Eliza. After finishing the book I understand why that's not the focus but in general Eliza was too forgiving which made me not like her at all. Since the book is about her, that would explain why I didn't enjoy this one. If you love American history or Alexander Hamilton is your thing then I would recommend it, otherwise skip it.
2 ½ starsIt's not a bad book, I mean it's about America's history but I found it so boring. I wanted more juice, like more of the drama between Angelica and Eliza. After finishing the book I understand why that's not the focus but in general Eliza was too forgiving which made me not like her at all. Since the book is about her, that would explain why I didn't enjoy this one. If you love American history or Alexander Hamilton is your thing then I would recommend it, otherwise skip it.
