https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216378.Now_Wait_for_Last_Year
Dr. Eric Sweetscent, a surgeon performing futuristic implants, also occupies a top slot at TF&D.Additionally, the novel contains three highlights worthy of a special call-out: 1) robots engaged in various activities and occupations, including cab drivers who zip around in flying cabs; 2) political intrigue with a particular focus on Gino Molinari, supreme leader of Terra, a man who makes a habit of failing health just at the right moment; and, most dramatically, 3) JJ-180, a powerful, instantly addictive, toxic drug with very strange properties.
Add the conflicts of the war efforts and some sneaky back-and-forths with world-lines, and we've got a dual story of the Earth President's life and Earth's flailing status in the war and Sweetscent's attempts to make his own life better as alternate versions of the drug sends him both forward and back in time, spawning alternate versions of everything, as he tries to fix or break his marriage.The novel is actually fun as hell and thought-provoking and it holds up really damn well.
To abandon her would be to say, I can't endure reality as such.
Dick (in Now Wait for Last Year)This is a book for married couples (having difficulties), suicides, drug addicts, politicians, and time travelers -- and it just happens to be one of my favorite PKD novels ever (although ever with Philip Kindred Dick is always a fluid thing).'Now Wait for Last Year' is something rare.
This book really is the last/best self-help book for couples and suicides.
Look, there are definitely better written Dick novels, but for even mild fans of this amazing author, I would definitely check this one out.
Another of the tranche of novels produced in an amphetaminal frenzy in 1963, Now Wait for Last Year is like a compendium of Dick's major obsessions of the period: time travel, mind-altering drugs, multiple versions of people and places, Mad Men-style office dynamics, weird fashions, telepathy.
Nevertheless, there is a feeling of emotional depth underlying a lot of the craziness which makes many of the scenes resonate in a different way.Sadly, the effect of this is rather militated against by Dick's perennially dubious treatment of female characters – which is especially poor here, in a novel where it most jars with his themes.
The  Valis era 80s PKD is just not for me.Now Wait for Last Year is mostly set in 2055 at a time when Earth is embroiled in an interstellar war between two alien species, a war not of our choosing.
This drug is immediately addictive, highly toxic and also has a weird reality warping and even time traveling effect.
A scene depicting the Reegs and Dr. Sweetscent by byona Now Wait for Last Year is vintage PKD, wonderfully weird, wacky and mind-blowing, with serious, thought-provoking themes woven into the narrative.
For his new job, Eric has to leave his wife Kathy, who has just become addicted to a new hallucinogenic drug.
Eric is glad to leave, though, because he and Kathy aren’t getting along.When Eric arrives at Gino Molinari’s side, he finds that the man has some strange health issues.
He also starts to wonder if Earth is on the wrong side of the war.You never know what you’re going to get with a story by Philip K.
There’s mystery, whimsy, and humor here, too — the scenes with the talking taxis are funny (humorous situations with automatons are a familiar PKD element).What stands out most, though, is that Now Wait for Last Year is an unusually emotional novel for Philip K.
Most interestingly, though, are the latter pages of the book when the conflict with the aliens recedes into the background and Sweetscent focuses on saving his wife from the effects of her drug abuse and his marriage from the effects of his wife.
Knowing this, it was especially heart-rending to read Sweetscent's musings as to whether it was even worth trying to save his wife, or whether both parties would be better off apart.
And as if Eric's life weren't troubled enough, Kathy has just decided to get her husband hooked on the drug as well....I mentioned up top that "NWFLY" is a virtual compendium of Dick's themes and ideas, and as such, it would make a perfect introduction for any readers new to PKD.
The novel, I should add, just brims with invention and ideas on virtually every page, be it the women's fashions (ebony teeth, toenails painted to depict the Norman Conquest, public toplessness with nipples gilded with a Martian life form!), Tijuana Fur and Dye owner Virgil Ackerman's Wash-35 outpost on Mars (an exact replica of a few square blocks of Washington, D.C., in 1935), the ingenious political intrigue or the truly disorienting, drug-induced time traveling.
This time, more than a decade later, I decided to try it again as one of Brilliance Audio's rapidly-expanding range of PKD audiobooks - and although I finished it, and I can only applaud the performance of Luke Daniels, it's pretty obvious to me why it was a bit of a slog.Now Wait for Last Year was composed during PKD's incredibly prolific early '60s period, although it wasn't published until a little later.
Absolute favorite PKD. Experimental drugs, lucid (non physical) time travel, mental institutions, ahhh greatness. I would give a more thorough review, but its been a few years since Ive read it + someone perma-borrowed my copy
Resenha publicada aqui: https://www1.folha.uol.com.br/ilustra...
Dick's misogyny is at full-bore here (PKD's works are so bound up in his own life and experiences that it helps, if you plan to read a considerable amount of his work, to get hold of a good biography like Lawrence Sutin's Divine Invasions and try and correlate the themes and issues in his books with what was going on in his rather messy and chaotic life at the time).
So are his explorations of the nature of reality and time, the effects of weird drugs and his deep engagement with ethics, something that gets commented on less often than the first two themes.
La trama non è la solita zolfa sul viaggio temporale (lasciamo stare che è un romanzo di Dick per il momento), o meglio, non c'è uno dei soliti meccanismi visti e rivisti (che io da brava fissata apprezzo comunque eh).
Per ora io ho letto solo questo e "Ma gli androidi sognano pecore elettriche?", ma credo di poter dire che apprezzo molto l'utilizzo di certi temi, o meglio, come sono utilizzati.
La guerra, gli androidi (che qui sono chiamati roboserventi), il conflitto marito e moglie, altra dicotomia, e sopratutto, tema non "palpabile", la continua necessità di una scelta.
Classic PKD. It's got layers of political deception, parallel realities, drugs that raise metaphysical questions, and a narrator stuck in a bad marriage. Yep, that's PKD, for better or worse.I enjoyed the narrative pretty consistently the whole way through, and it came to a meaningful crescendo at the end. It left me with a feeling a bit like I had at the end of Galactic Pot Healer: inspired to go on doing my best every day, because what else is there to do?
This is a fairly typical Dickian novel. Not great, but not bad. It involves drug addiction, time travel, flying autonomous cabs, war with aliens, and strange politicians. It took me a while to get into it, and when I finally did, it didn't work up to a nice climax, it just kinda finished.I used to be a big PKD fan. The more of his I read, the less of a fan I become. I think I need to take a break from Dick for a while.
I enjoyed reading it, and god knows I love me some Philip K Dick, but I feel like it was really lacking.
I loved the alien and time travel aspects of this book, because those are some of my favourite story lines to read.
I was really looking forward to Eric Sweetscent investigating how staff members in the White House mysteriously fall ill from the same illness at the same time as Molinari, but that storyline never eventuated.
>=|While reading this it felt like Dick was consciously trying not to turn the story into a Space Opera, but I think it would have really benefited from going in that direction.
This isn't one of my favourite PKD works.
One of the criticisms of PKD's overall body of work is his trouble with female characters.
It makes me wonder if PKD was going through one of his divorce battles at the time of writing.Secondly, this one has some awful and glaring plot holes that can't be explained away with even the most tortured of logic.Phil Dick openly admitted that some novels were just done for the money.
By some accounts this one was pulled off his done stack to take advantage of the fact that publishers were buying his stuff at the time.
typická dickovina (:))) ), propadání se do různých alternativ, drogy, válka a nadvláda mocných. Tradičně se člověk ztrácí v tom víru "kdy a kde" a konec je bez nějakého jasného vyřešení něčeho, ukončeného konce
I suppose the book has some merit when taken as an allegory, although that opens up a variety of plot holes that essentially negates the entire plot of the book (since nothing else is real, neither are any of the decisions made; but if The Road is any indication of literary speculative fiction, obviously, plot holes and illogical inconsistencies do not bother that audience at all, so who cares?)But since this was, purportedly, one of the SF Masterworks, I assumed it was science fiction, and I proceeded on the assumption that at least some of the time travel the characters experienced was real, as was the existential threat of the aliens.Moving on.Eric leaves Kathy and says he's going to seek a divorce when he goes to work for Molinari.
But it happens to Kathy Sweetscent in Now Wait for Last Year, and true to the spirit of PKD novels this wild scene is barely a sidebar to what -- or whatever -- the book is about.
Kathy will make it to Cheyenne, where the time-traveling aspects of the drug JJ-180 will mess with her life and that of her long-suffering, at least in his own mind, husband, Dr. Eric Sweetscent.
He has an obese, hypochondriac despot to keep alive while earth is embroiled in a losing war between 'Starmen and reegs.
Don't get me wrong - some of his books have really tight storytelling, with not a single piece of information left unused, like Scanner Darkly/Minority Report.
This isn't one of it: it's split in the middle between a sci-fi political space drama ala Simulacrum, and the character's personal drama involving his druggie wife.
There isn't a single woman in the novel who is seen as anything except a flirting piece of meat/jailbait, and while I usually don't give a flying crap about feminism in novels, there comes a point after the 50th reminder of how vindictive and callous the female kind is that I do take offense.
Questa volta Dick offre un romanzo sottilmente ironico tratteggiando una feroce parodia dei protagonisti della seconda guerra mondiale.Il dittatore Benito Mussolini incarnato dal flaccido e irresponsabile Gino Molinari, mentre la Germania sotto il terzo Reich è rappresentata dai lilistariani.Tutto questo diventa il solito pretesto per condannare l'utilizzo di droghe ed il conseguente distacco dalla realtà.Geniali come al solito alcune intuizioni "futuristiche" come la rappresentazione della città natale, o anche il congelamento + sostituzione di organi per salvare il corpo.Un Dick di buonissimo livello, nonostante il meglio lo abbia dato in altri suoi lavori

Absolutely the most phildickian of all Philip K. Dick books. It has everything PKD: henpecked husband and underling executive or doctor trying to navigate a semi-oppressive dystopia; wild investigations into identity, memory, and (perceived) time; an illegal new drug that is manufactured by the same forces that oppose it; mid-century extreme but casual sexism; cabs that try but fail to interact naturally with fares; crossed loyalties; fatalistic decisions; devious allies and innocent enemies; and there's even a little precognition!I couldn't recommend this particular PKD novel more highly.
What happens if the president has access to multiple timelines. One of the best lesser-known Philip K. Dick books I've read recently.
I am a huge fan of PKD, but I have always found his short stories to be more accessible than his longer works.
This one is definitely for time-travel fans, and people who like their domestic dramas to have a heavy does of sci-fi and philosophy.
(**Note: there are some outdated references to mental health that are ableist and potentially upsetting to readers.
These references do further the story--they are not without intent--but I do understand how that can be a deal-breaker when deciding what to read.)
(Audiobook) I don't remember reading this. Poor PKD had kind of a problem with women. I can't recall a single sympathetic female character in this. Other than that, great "what is real" and "how do I live" stuff!
Oh-kay, so - to begin...Now Wait for Last Year inspired a bit of an internal crisis for me - because I began to wonder whether I was a bad feminist.
And I began to wonder, hey, is this stuff bothering me because I hate to see these conniving, ill-intentioned, terrible women in these novels...
I mean, granted, PKD has some serious issues with women and relationships (and who knows whether I'm even judging appropriately - maybe he was married to some heinous people?
So, is it really bad feminism to take issue with a mentally ill author and his exaggerated depictions of women?
Dick and John Lee Hooker are both very influential, instantly recognizable, and inimitable.To me both seem to dispense with a lot of the craft and polish of their art.
Hooker's playing is sloppy and he turns the beat around a lot.
Neither seems to vary the tone or pace of their art, they're kind of steady state.But I keep going back to both of them, for the pure individuality as much as anything.
Hooker is self contained and hypnotic, and Dick is so inventive and satirical.When I go to the library I have trouble remembering which Dick novels I've read already.
I'm a big re-reader of books I like, but this is my first time re-reading PKD.
Now Wait For Last Year was the first of his sci-fi books I read - oddly, I read two of his non-sci-fi "literature" novels first (Confessions of a Crap Artist was great, but then I came across Puttering About in a Small Land -is that the title?- which I found odd and oddly off-putting) so then it was some years before I read this- I was 30, I think, and I've since read an amazing amount of PKD books, considering it hasn't been a whole decade.
