https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36252.Avalon
A historical novel based on events that occurred in the 10th Century in England, Iceland, and Greenland, Avalon did not live up to my expectations of Anya Seton.
I now have a better understanding of how the very important Norman conquest came to be and why the Normans came to sit on the throne of England.The story traces a Cornish girl, Merewyn, who is revealed to be a result of a Viking raid, and Rumon, a French descendant of Charlemagne.
I do feel the section that deals with her life among the Iceland/Greenland Norse is better-written than her time in England.

She ends up married to a rich English dude & we're treated to several episodic snapshots of Ethelred's reign, at which point Rumon-the-Monk drops back into Merewyn's life, somehow convincing her that his opinion matters, & she spends a few pages confessing that she's a Viking bastard.
We don't see any of Merewyn's acclimation to Viking life, the developing relationship with her father & Sigurd, or even the process of settlement on Greenland.
But The Thrall's Tale succeeded where Avalon failed -- that is, crafting a brutal, visceral story that centers on a small cast of characters as they survive an equally brutal, visceral environment.
Very enjoyable. It was nice taking a travel through history in a period of time not so frequently written about. The up and down see saw of Merewyn's and Ruman's star crossed love was heartbreaking at times. I don't want to say more to give out the end. It isn't Katherine by a long shot, but still a good read, and I would recommend to any lover of historical fiction.
Avalon is my first Anya Seton read, and it is set in 10th century England during the prevalent Viking raids and the ever-present discord between Saxons and Danes.
It tells the story of a young nobleman from Provence who has a vision of Avalon, and a Cornish girl who belatedly learns about her disreputable pedigree.
I did like the ending for its realistic touch, although it was sadder than I had expected.
Rumon hopes to be given a place at court.But Rumon carries a secret - the truth of Merewyns birth.
I only liked Merewyn some of the time.
The constant hardships of the characters in this book just didn't effect me like I think they were supposed to, because the characters weren't identifiable enough for me.
However, I was (as always) impressed with Setons vast knowledge and her attention to accuracy.
Since they're not I'm rounding up to 4, out of respect for Seton.
This book was dull and not-at-all exciting.Merewyn at 14 thinks she's a descendant of King Arthur.
He's voyaging to the current king's court, being obsessed with Avalon and King Arthur's court.
Merewyn's mother dies and Rumon has pledged to her mother to take Merewyn to court to find her aunt, who is the the most powerful abbess in England.The book follows the lives of these two.
She loves him, but he can't "see" her for his obsession with the queen.
Once he realizes that Merewyn is "the one" for him, she's been kidnapped by Vikings and married off to a Viking warrior and no longer wants him.

This novel is in many ways the total opposite to Anya Seton's Katherine.
Merewyn and Rumon simply miss each other, first Merewyn loves Rumon but he feels himself above her and by the time that he discovers himself Merewyn has been taken taken across to Iceland to discover her true identity where she falls in love and marries.
Rumon traces her to Iceland and discovers he is too late.Later when Merewyn is widowed she tries to reach Rumon again and finds that his situation has changed.Theirs is very much a story of missed opportunities, it is really quite sad although each of them eventually finds their own peace.
This is not about the fabled Avalon, or King Arthur, but referenced to through out the story. Another great story by Anya Seton. She just does not write anything bad! This book travels from England to Iceland, Greenland, and back. The Norseman and their raids on England are woven through the story as two main characters Merewyn and Rumon, go on their journeys seeking each other. I haven’t read of this location in any time period.. thought it was interesting.
Also, she writes about Viking settlements in Iceland and Greenland, a subject I found very interesting and which I don’t see in many books.The next book I read will probably be about medieval Norse or Viking culture, and it will be because of this book.
If a book can make me so interested in a subject that I go and read more books about it, to me that’s a great thing.
I can't honestly bash on the woman who wrote "Katherine" but I didn't really like this book.
By the end of the book I felt like I didn't even know Merewyn.
Well I liked Rumon at the end.
I felt like I was in three different plots by the end: with Alfrida in the beggining and then Rumon's little whiny stage then in iceland.
I don't know, I just got impatient for it to end.
And when something catostrophic would happen, I kind of just ignored it because it doesn't really ever effect the plot of the whole book.
Set at the turn of the first millenium, this story is about Britain, Vikings and early kings. Arthur is already a legend by the time of this book. It had travel to Iceland, Greenland and the "New World" as well as intrigue and politics of England trying to become and remain a united nation in the face of attack by Vikings. I have read one other book by this author -Katherine about Katherine Swynford and have enjoyed them both. I would highly recommend.
a slow but intriguing historical read.
I have long owned this Anya Seton book, but never read it before.
This book follows Rumon, a French prince with an insatiable wanderlust looking for the sacred Isle of Avalon, and has him cross paths with a young Cornish girl whose mother claims they are descended from sling Arthur.
A deathbed confession and Rumons promise to the dying woman prevent his ever telling her of her true parentage as he conveys her to her Aunt Merewyn, a nun in Shaftesbury.
Merewyn sees Rumon as her savior, he is on a holy mission but is swayed by an evil queen from his path.
This is also very much a story of two parts, that in which we learn of Rumon and his relationship with the family of King Edgar the Peaceful, and that of Merewyn and her adventures that take her from Cornwall to Iceland and Greenland.
The stories start off intertwined and slowly drift apart, as do many real life relationships, and when Rumon and Merewyn meet for the final time there is the sense of two old friends who were once close but have grown adrift due to their experiences and yet still retain a closeness which marks them as friends.As a historical saga this novel sets a standard and stylistic element that has influenced so many more recent authors.
While Seton definitely did make the Icelandic characters speak in a way that parrots the syntax of the sagas, she really needed to research more than the most superficial aspects of the societies she was setting the story in.
And even emotions that are driving forces for the plot just come out of nowhere, like Rumon deciding all of a sudden that he loves Merewyn enough to sail all over the world after her.
All the setup we've had before he sails all over the world trying to win her back are a few fleeting thoughts about how hot she'd look if she didn't have freckles.
The story is centered around the characters Rumon and Merewyn, and their love for one another (albeit at different points in their lives), and all the places this love or lack of it takes them.
At different points of the book, to different extents, Rumon and Merewyn are not the most likable characters, but I think that adds to the value of the story and makes them more relatable.
But his eventual realization of his love for Merewyn, and what he does to attempt to reunite with her make him one of the most selfless characters in literature.
A re-read of an old favourite. Anya Seton really was an astonishingly good writer of HF in her era. I read everything she had written in my early teens and have re-read most of them at least once since. Avalon is one of my three favourites of hers - the others are Devil Water and Green Darkness. In fact, my life-long love of HF stems from the novels of Anya Seton and Margaret Irwin. If you have never read either of these writers, do give them a try!
Meh. This book was okay, and it did hold my interest all the way through...
The part of the book where one of the main characters lives in Iceland and Greenland (and for a time gives up her religion) was the most engaging for me, as it wasn't beating me over the head with religious issues.
I don't mind religious characters, but I don't enjoy religious books, and this was definitely the latter.
Also, when you pick up a book named "Avalon" you expect it to be about King Arthur, not about an alleged distant descendant of the man.
Phillipa Gregory hit the nail on the head when she said Seton sacrifices story for factual accuracy. This was an erratic novel when compared to Seton's Katherine. Characters who were set up to be extremely important faded out of the story for long periods of time only to resurface briefly and in unsubstantial ways. I enjoyed the novel for its education on Viking culture and explorations, but this was far from a perfect novel and I would point readers to Katherine if they are looking for a solid historical fiction lead.
I decided to read this book because I really enjoyed Anya Seton's book "Katherine". I didn't like this one nearly as well. Toward the end I just didn't care anymore what happened, I just wanted it to be over. I also had a hard time with the pronunciation of the names of some of the people and places. I wasn't sure how some names were pronounced and I would get bogged down in the story trying to figure out how they should sound. It wasn't the worst book I've ever read, but it was far from the best.
This book by Anya Seton is based on actual people and events in the 10th century before the conquest of England. It is the story of Marewynn, a young girl in Cornwall who has always believed she is a descendant of King Arthur. It follows her life from Cornwall to Iceland and Greenland and back to England. It is also about Rumon a young man from France of royal birth. These two will cross paths at different times in their lives and see many changes.
turns out it is sn older book -1964- which might explain the style. I found it plodding and frequently dull. the characters had such potential but the author never let them take off. there were plenty of fascinating locales but she didn't take advantage of them to create a compelling narrative that explored new places and cultures. the story line is dated and stale.
Well this was certainly no Katherine. Rumon irritated the heck out of me, not a strong enough male romantic lead. The era was interesting and it was worth reading.
WHAT A BOOK!! Another masterpiece by Anya Seton and I must re-read Katherine some day.
This book basically seems as though someone who was really knowledgeable about this time period decided they wanted to share that knowledge, but somehow came to the conclusion that people don't read nonfiction anymore and threw together a novel instead.
However, after Rumon meets Merewyn in Greenland and she turns him away, he doesn't even show up again in person until the end of the book, when he tells her that he gave up looking for Avalon anyways.
The main characters are Merewyn and Rumon, whose lives intersect and then split off throughout the course of the story.
Avalon had both fascinating characters and engaging plot lines, however, the plot lines were written like short episodes, rather than one long conflict that crescendos into a big bang climax near the end.
I also liked how vividly Seton described the court at a time in history that is rarely written about in such a close up way.
Rumon was looking for Avalon and Merewyn thought she was descended from King Arthur.
It was good, it was OK, it was fine, I'd recommend it to someone interested in historical fiction about England in years that only have 3 digits.Another 3-star novel about 3-digit England is Julian Rathbone's The Last English King, which starts where this book leaves off: Avalon takes place during the reigns of Edgar, Edward, and Ethelred the Unready, while The Last English King starts with the death of Edward the Confessor, and continues through the Norman conquest.
But it never becomes important, never feels "real."Despite all the courtly intrigue, Anya Seton never foregrounds the important pun on Ethelred's name.
The Virtues of Frustrated LoveI read this book when I was very young and it made a deep impression on me, not so much because of its historical flavor, but for the structure of the romance.
I'd never quite read another book like it.
No cliched happy ending here.I'd thought it would be a romantic novel when I read it, and I'm not going to lie, the ending ticked me off at first.
I do have a bit of unrequited longing in my current series, but it's not going to go on for too long.
