https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/659622.Garden_of_Shadows
Oh, and because her husband cheated on her with his stepmother.
And then he killed his father, and impregnated his stepmother who gets PUT IN THE ATTIC.
So does that make him his...stepsister's father?
Well, anyway, the stepmother has a daughter who is the most beautiful woman of all!
Anyway, the daughter ends up falling in love with who she THINKS is her half uncle...but little does she know...he's her HALF BROTHER!
So they get damned to hell by Cathy's grandmother, and then they run away together and have Cathy, her gross brother, and the twins.
Book Review  3 out of 5 stars to Garden of Shadows, the 5th book in the young adult thriller series written in 1987 by V.C. Andrews. Two key things to note about this book. The author passed away while writing this book, and I'm not clear on how much VC Andrews wrote versus a ghost writer at the publishing firm. Also, it's the fifth book in the series, but it is actually a prequel to Flowers in the Attic, so it should be read first. That said, if you read it first, you'd totally lose the power
3 out of 5 stars to Garden of Shadows, the 5th book in the young adult thriller series written in 1987 by V.C. Andrews.
Also, it's the fifth book in the series, but it is actually a prequel to Flowers in the Attic, so it should be read first.
If you haven't read Flowers in the Attic, stop reading this review and go back to the beginning.
Imagine a young kid saying "Oh, I can write that better." LOLIf you read the series, you owe it to yourself to finish it with this one.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestIf you've read the Dollanganger series, you probably remember that the grandmother character in FLOWERS IN THE ATTIC had serious issues. But how did she get that way? Aren't you curious?GARDEN OF SHADOWS is about a girl named Olivia. Tall and plain, she's been raised her whole life as the son her father wanted but never got. Beneath that homely brow of hers is a sharpened mind, and an almost heartbreaking desire to be loved and adored. She'
But things are not what they seem, and happiness is elusive.***WARNING: SPOILERS***This is one of those books that, like the first two in the series, actually had me setting the volume aside, taking a deep breath, and thinking to myself, "WOW, THAT WAS SO MESSED UP." Over the course of the novel, we see Olivia, maddened with jealousy, betrayal, and impotent rage, slowly lose her desire to please and be loved; instead, she becomes cruel and controlling, using fear to influence where she failed at charm.
I read the first four books of the Dollanganger saga two years ago, and since then I've never felt quite emotionally prepared for the fifth book.
I finally plucked up the courage to read Garden of Shadows, and it is safe to say V.C. Andrews has not let me down.Fortunately, I didn't cry reading this book.
I found myself sympathizing with Olivia, and hating Corinne as much as I did two years ago.Honestly, I don't have much to say because Garden of Shawdows left me speechless.
After reading this book, I still don't like Olivia, but at least I can see her reason and where she came from.Although the plots and turns of events are highly predicable...down to the handsome husband getting abusive part, still I can understand those characters quite well...and despite of all the victim-blaming, melodramas, woman-on-woman-hating, rape and incest, Garden of Shadows is still Gothic horror/soap opera at its finest.
So, 4 stars.PS: I'd just finished re-reading this book in Chinese at 30/03/2018!List of my favorite V.
C. Andrews' books: https://www.goodreads.com/list/user_v...
The first and most important of the Andrews series. Felt oh so wrong while reading it and yet no girl of my generation could put them down! I enjoyed every page of every book.
They have a fight, triangle wins and Garland has a fatal heart attack.After the death of his father, Malcolm's ardor is lessened and Olivia believes he's done attempting to bed Alicia.
Luckily (since this is a prequel), we know he didn't really die, he was just hiding out from his a-hole parents...for fifty years.With two sons dead and a daughter that grows more spoiled by the day, Olivia is having a pretty rough time of things.
As the novel progresses, we begin to see how a woman with great intelligence and potential begins to use her gifts towards bad instead of good - warping herself into the hateful grandmother and homicidal grandmother we meet in _Flowers in the Attic_.
In _Flowers in the Attic_ we meet a woman who is incapable of standing up to her mother and, instead, uses her mother's actions as an excuse to rid herself of her children and move on with the life she left behind as a beautiful socialite.
In my reading, Corrine was the real villain of _Flowers in the Attic_.
"Garden of Shadows", the prequel to "Flowers in the Attic", goes back to unchartered territory and succeeds in giving a new twist to the Dollangager saga.
"Garden" is the story of Olivia (the Grandmother) - - a few pages about her upbringing by her loving father, before we are taken right into her "arranged" marriage to Malcolm Foxworth, a good looking young man whom she feels love for, but that quickly turns on her wedding night when she is raped.
Prequels often tend to fail, but "Garden" succeeds in being a fascinating story and giving a new twist on the old familiar Dollanganger saga.
Takes you back to the beginning and makes the Dollanganger story even MORE twisted...
I think it's hard to spend 4 books hating on a character and then going back in the 5th and trying to work up some boo-hoo for the character you have been hating on for so long.
I feel like someone should have stepped in at some point and nudged the ghost-writers for V.C. Andrews and told them that humping relatives is actually kinda looked down upon.
Of course the formula works - The estate of V.C. Andrews is still pumping out incest laden novel after novel.
I haven't read one in years but I am betting they are still filled with abuse and twisted family humping situations.
Maldito drama y maldito seas Malcom.Al fin obtuve mis ansiadas respuestas.
After all, she did watch Alicia Foxworth go nearly mad from being locked away in that room/attic for almost a year.This book was probably the most shocking out of all of them, because after reading the first four you are always led to believe that Corrine married her half-uncle.
Which leaves me to wonder just how much of what happen to those children where the ideas of John Amos?
Which of course doesn't make Olivia blameless, because even if they were his suggestions she didn't have to listen.Did John Amos suggest to Malcolm that he and Olivia should take the switch to Corrine's back as punishment for her sins?
OMG. Makes complete sence!
Taigi man dar viena - paskutinioji jos dalis buvo likusi...
Visi paaiškinimai kodėl ji tapo tokia žiauri kokia buvo.Olivija jaunystėje neišsiskyrė nei grožiu, nei elegancija.
Viskas ką jai davė Dievas buvo sumanumas ir aštrus protas, kuo labai didžiavosi jos tėvas.
Nors Olivija ir nustebo jo, tačiau leido sau akimirką pabūti naiviai - ištekėjo už Malkolmo.
Man tai buvo puikus galvos ir širdies nuraminimas, bei tobulas atitrūkimas nuo realybės.
Tikrai labai gaila, kad šių knygų niekas neperleidžia, mat bibliotekose jos labai "suskaitytos", o vis imamos ir imamos.P.S ką tik sužinojau, kad knyga "Palėpės gėlės" Amerikoje, PBS buvo nominuota "Mylimiausios Amerikos knygos" rinkimuose!
I guess Olivia had to be depicted as a hopeful girl just like any other, because that makes Malcolm's deception all the more unforgiveable, but showing Olivia to be this way at the beginning made me skeptical.
Making this character, so full of dreams and wishes for love at the beginning, turn malicious by the end...I had to wonder if the author would be able to carry out that transformation believably.There was one moment in the book where Olivia does something cruel, but it seemed inconsistent with her behavior before.
Note: If you hated Olivia, Corrine's mother and Cathy's grandmother as much as I did in the first and previous novels of the series, then maybe this prequel will give you a little more insight on her aspect and will help you change your mind on this poor woman who went through so much hatred and unfairness in her life.
So by the end of the book, I felt a lot of sympathy for Olivia.
But other than that, this book was great and the perfect ending and beginning to everything, in a way.
Oh wow. Well I just flew through this. I can't not give it 5 stars because it kept me hooked and horrified at every turn. The ending had me gasping, for something that was SO obvious and critical to the Dollanganger novels, it didn't even occur to me until I read it at the last page. I love VC Andrews books, they just flow so easily. This one had everything, and I definitely even feel haunted now after I've closed the book.
Currently reading (6/14/17):Buddy read with Sarah.
The perfect way to start off the summer.
:DReview (7/5/17):This book just cements my love for all the evil grandmother origins stories (the last book in each series).
I'm not 100% sure why.This book goes into detail why Olivia turned into a hellbeast.
Olivia started out as such a sympathetic character.
Just ick.I had mixed feelings about Garland, on one hand he is such a nice guy, on the other he started wooing Alicia when she was still very underage.
ick.The real victims were Olivia's two sons and Alicia.
:(The book ends with the beginning summary of Flowers in the Attic.
It has a shocker of an ending that makes the whole series worth it.3.) And lastly, you have to read it to finally understand all of what just happened in the previous books.
During this affair, or let's be honest, rape of his stepmother, she conceives a child named Corrine.
And after all, we learn that although Malcolm is a sleazeball, he had room in his heart for Corrine and her children after all, but it was Grandma that refused to let them in, jealous of Malcalm's love for his daughter, forcing them to spend their days locked in the attic.
Garden of Shadows by V.C. Andrews is the final installment of the Dollanganger Family Series.
Like Flowers in the Attic, Garden of Shadows presents a series of horrifying events that make you want to cringe, yet entices you to read more.
Once Olivia moves in with her husband, the plot weaves a series of shocking family secrets.
The story leads readers to fell sympathy for Olivia despite her cruel personality that was portrayed in Flowers in the Attic.
By the end of the story, I felt compelled to re-read Flowers in the Attic all over again.
Que locura, te odio John Amos
3.5
*3.5.*
The book that explains why the grandmother was such an evil bitch, why did she resent the four Dollanganger children so much, why did Corrine seem like a huge chip on her shoulder!
Corrine and Christopher's relationship was a little underdeveloped (would have liked to read more about why they were in love than just ('love at first sight') and nowhere near as edgy as Cathy and Chris's.
In fact, the thing I disliked about this book was the buildup and relationship between Christopher and Corrine, in the first book, Corrine gives a detailed explanation as to how and why they both fell in love and from Olivia's eyes, the whole thing seemed like a puppet show.

Garden of Shadows (Dollanganger, #5), V.C. Andrews
Bu kitabı da GR'de keşfettim aslında. Ay bir kitap daha varmış ne ola ki diye baktım: Olivia. Bu kitabı bana kimse okutamaz. O pis cadalozun hayatını okuyup ona sempati felan duymam mümkün değil, zift sahnesini unutmadım. Bu seriden yeterince acı çektiğimi düşünüyorum, iyi ki o zamanlar keşfetmemişim.
I felt wrong leaving the series off without having read the last book, the prequel to Flowers in the Attic.
I don't know how V.C. wanted me to feel sympathy for you after sitting through four books of your vengeful evilness.
The characters that we're supposed to like (Christopher and the second Corinne) are constantly described as so "perfect" and "wonderful" and "beautiful." Chris and Corinne are Mary Sue/Gary Stues to the max, and I don't know anyone that can relate to that.
It's extremely easy to read, and anyone can blow through this book in less than a week.
And reading it kind of leaves you feeling trashy and used.
It reveals the hidden secrets between Olivia and Malcolm Foxworth which explains a lot about their actions in the rest of the series.
It really was a tragic story that continued the Dollanganger misfortune.The book comes full circle and shows us why Olivia kept Corrine's children locked up, hidden from the world.
She saw in Christopher and Cathy what she had missed seeing in Corrine and Christopher Sr. This isn't my favorite of the series but it is a satisfying beginning to the unbelievable "Flowers in the Attic" series.
The relationship between Corrine and Christopher is reminiscent of their kids, Christopher Jr. and Cathy.
