https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/304027.Lover_Unbound
Just a simple review devoted to Lover Unbound and my obsession with Vishous.  I have a confession- there was a time when I was obsessed with this series (I get easily obsessed with stuff). Black Dagger Brotherhood was like crack to me. Dark Lover was laughably bad. So bad. Still, I wasn't ready to give up. To quote Shania Twain, I ain't no quitter. I read Lover Eternal and was hooked. Croatia was having one of its coldest winters and I needed something to keep me warm. *cough* hot vampires *coug
Just a simple review devoted to Lover Unbound and my obsession with Vishous.
Black Dagger Brotherhood was like crack to me.
Dark Lover was laughably bad.
Croatia was having one of its coldest winters and I needed something to keep me warm.
*cough* hot vampires *cough* Who doesn't love vampires?
I, for one, love those fanged creatures.
What's so amazing about Lover Unbound?
He is a total badass and the most complex character in the series.
I love J.R. Ward's writing style.
Black Dagger has lost its magic for me.
A cold and snowy winter is coming...
This isn't a review, it's a rant and it's full of spoilers.
There are plenty of reviews of this book all around and I don't feel like writing another one.
BUT I do need to get this anger off my chest, so here I go...First off, let me say that I was warned about the crappy ending of this book beforehand.
I wasn't thrilled about it, but I was willing to give Ms. Ward the chance to prove me that she had pulled it off in a satisfying way when all was said and done.
The whole thing felt more like settling than a true HEA.In my mind, V and Jane's romance was doomed from the start.
As the story opened, he was still pretty much in love with Butch and jealous of the other man's shellan Marissa, so it was a shock to see how fast he fell for Jane.
She reminds me of Marissa in her spineless days before she mated with Butch and that isn't a good thing, but who knows, Ward can give her a character change in the next book.JM - What's happening to him?
“When I want you to beg, I’ll tell you.” His tongue was warm and wet as it rode up her neck. “Now ask me what I’m going to do to you.”She opened her mouth, but could only pant.He tightened the hold on her hair. “Ask me. Say, ‘What are you going to do to me?’”She swallowed. “What…what are you going to do to me?”He wheeled her to one side, all the while keeping his hips tight to her ass. “You see that sink, Jane?”“Yes…” Holy shit, she was going to orgasm—“I’m going to bend you over that sink and
Just one bad thing after another :(With Jane, he finally starts to have feelings for someone (besides Butch), and he falls in love, even though he knows he shouldn't.In this book he makes love for the first time, with emotions and intense feelings, not jut to get off, that was such a wonderful scene.(view spoiler)[Their separation!
4 Major Mommy Issue Stars ****Spoilers****First read 2014Reread 3/30/2017"She. Comes. With. Me."-VLover Unbound, the 5th book in the BDB series was great. I would have gave it 5 stars if not for Phury. Truly that Brother rubs me the wrong way every time he is on the page. And he had too many pages in this book. I know his book is next, but man I could've done with a lot less Phury. Anyways V and Jane's story was sweet, kinky, and very angsty. In this book there was a lot of different povs as J.R
In horror he stared at what was behind his tattooed skin: The glow in him was just like hers.-Scribe VirginPoor Vishous had some real mommy issues in this book.
Never knowing who his mother was boy was he shocked when the Scribe Virgin came to him and let him know that she was in fact his birth mother, and that she was going to make him her "Primale".
I loved the way he let Jane in and showed her the real him.
What I really loved about Jane was that she didn't look like most heroines.
And I'm going to keep loving you even after you don't know I exist."-VVishous is one kinky motherfucker.
What is it about this series that gets me to love it more each time I read it? I keep reading the entire series over and over again - never getting bored but just more into it than ever. I can't keep away from these books and characters. Crazy!!! But so "true".I may not have been crazy about Vishous in the beginning...but have grown to becoming just as obsessed with this gorgeous vampire like all those "V' fans out there...and believe me...there are zillions of them!!  And I still don't "feel" t
2nd REVIEW 2012I am so into V reading this book again.....I am still p....off that Jane is killed and comes back as a ghost...what kind of woman is this for a guy like V???...that Scribe Virgin is some kind of dragon.....sorry Rhage!!!!I am now becoming or have become totally obsessed with the Qhuinn & Blay thing......it's you guys again...getting me all heated up about the qhuay thingie........I am so into reading the books.....I find myself reading each page slowly so I can prolong the pleasure.....1st REVIEW 2011Lover Unbound is the 5th book in the Black Dagger Brotherhood series by JR Ward.I have read all the previous books in the series and have mixed feelings about Vishous.
Vishous is now my favorite member of the brotherhood... TRUE!    “Terrific. A bisexual dominant vampire with kidnapping expertise.”   I loved Vishous, I loved Jane, I just LOVED this book!!!!! Things have been ‘off’ with Vishous for a while now. His visions have dried up. He’s not sleeping well, having nightmares. And to top it off, he has feelings for his roommate, Butch, who is mated to Marissa. V copes by drinking Goose, and going to his penthouse for some fun.  His ‘birthday’ is coming up.
I loved Vishous, I loved Jane, I just LOVED this book!!!!!
Before one of his brothers finds him, someone calls an ambulance and he gets taken to the local hospital where Dr. Jane Whitcomb saves his life.
(hide spoiler)]Things I LOVED about this book: Jane and Vishous together...
Butch and Vishous- Even though I was team V and Butch and I love the idea of them together, I was happy that they got back to their fun, easy going friendship.
I feel like after every book I have a new favorite, but really I just love them all!!!
In addition, all the remaining members of the Brotherhood, most of their shellans and some other secondary characters from past novels in the series make an appearance in some capacity giving this story a very extensive and well-rounded cast.I know from all the low ratings that there are many things which some readers disliked about Lover Unbound, but there was very little that bothered me.
I really like books that make me think and Lover Unbound, due in part to this thread, certainly accomplished that.
5 UNBOUND STARS.Tinged with sadness, overwhelmingly touching, out there heart thumping style falling in love, Family bond like no other, tears, pain, angst, soul bearing eternal love ~ Yes I just got a little bit more of my fix for the Brotherhood.I'm pretty sure my reviews are becoming predictable with this series but I can't apologise.
I don't know how the author achieves it but she combines mini stories throughout the book, threading it all together to make one fantastic story and although we read about many characters in 'lover unbound' the shining stars in this story are Vishous and Jane.A life changing, life saving moment between a doctor and a vampire turns everything around for this duo.
Buddy reread with Macha :) “I love you. And I'm going to keep loving you even after you don't know I exist.” Vishous is officially my favorite brother. I couldn’t choose between him and Z but after rereading his book I felt that he deserved the first place.He was always distant from the other brothers but he actually developed a deep relationship with his buddy Butch.I liked what was happening between them and V's inner monologues made me hurt for him.During the whole book we get to know him bet
I couldn’t choose between him and Z but after rereading his book I felt that he deserved the first place.He was always distant from the other brothers but he actually developed a deep relationship with his buddy Butch.I liked what was happening between them and V's inner monologues made me hurt for him.During the whole book we get to know him better.He had a fucked up childhood because he grew up with his father.Bloodletter was one of the most vicious warriors that had ever existed.
Who would have thought I would go ga-ga over a bisexual, seriously dominant, kinda scary guy like Vishous?
She put so much love and effort into telling this man's story that you couldn't help but love him.
And she never even blinked at the fact that Vishous was in love with another man and was seriously into bondage and stuff.
She doesn't replace Butch but she still gives Vishous the love and acceptance he deserved for so long.If I had one complaint, then it was how things were resolved with Jane.
Re-read: Dec 13th 2016I cannot tell you guys how much I adore and love this story.
He's so over his head for his love and reading about his past and planned future made me care for him so much.
I wished from the start that he didn't had to go through all that and by the end of this story I was really moved.Let me quick say that I don't really care much for his mother, even less for his father.
This is my third re-read and believe me it won't be the last.
He is so witty and nerdy but sexy and dark at the same time :D His character had an interesting development/coming to age story.
He was born from the Virgin Scribe and a brutal warrior named Bloodletter (I must admit that out of all the crazy names in this book, this has got to be the lamest lol).
Definitely did not see that coming!And then it seems like everything crazy happens in the last 50 pages of the book!!
Then Phury says he will become the Primale because he is the only brother who isn't in love with someone they can actually have.
Vishous and Jane   There was a moment of silence. And then in a rough voice, the man whose life she saved spoke four words that changed everything… changed her life, changed her destiny:"She. Comes. With. Me."  These two characters had a complicated relationship from the beginning. Vishous was saved by Dr. Jane and then he simply decided to take her back to the mansion. Jane’s life is about to change forever. One day she was career-focused, successful and independent. The next day is locked is a
Vishous and Jane 
Vishous was saved by Dr. Jane and then he simply decided to take her back to the mansion.
But apparently she is attracted to him.Stockholm syndrome anyone?Jane: 
Vishous has never had an easy existence.
He may had a extraordinary brotherly/maybe a hint of sexual relationship with Butch, but he really needed a woman in his life.
I desperately need another book with Vishous and Jane, because both of them need to remember how much they love each other without the complications that time and everyday habit usually bring.
(view spoiler)[And Jane needs to stop being a ghost.
“I love you. And I'm going to keep loving you even after you don't know I exist.”  Lover Unbound is a little bit dark compared with the previous ones. V is a complicated character. I couldn't even read him before I started this book. I knew he had the past but I had never expected it being this tortuous. I loved J.R. Ward for making this book into something exceptional and so much different from her old works.  “Written on the mirror, revealed by the steam, were the words, I love you, Jane.”  D
And I'm going to keep loving you even after you don't know I exist.”
I loved J.R. Ward for making this book into something exceptional and so much different from her old works.
“Written on the mirror, revealed by the steam, were the words, I love you, Jane.”
Ward did it on purpose and I totally understand her.(view spoiler)[What happens in the last past of this book was shocking and unbelievably sad for me.
Ward never disappointed me, she always surprises me with her work and I adore her so much for that.
Opening Line:"I am so not feeling all this cowhide."~AWESOME, WITH AN UNCONVENTIONAL ENDING~Book 5 in JR Wards sexy Black Dagger Brotherhood series is all about Vishous and "Doc" Jane.
Its while at his 'love nest' that the Scribe Virgin makes an appearance blowing his mind with some life changing news and demanding that V become 'Primale' (basically he must marry a harem of chosen females and propagate the declining vampire race) Not really V's cup of tea but that's the least of his problems as that very night sees him getting shot in the chest and taken to a human hospital where he's operated on by trauma surgeon Jane Whitcomb.
But being from a different world prevented them from being together especially when he was fated for something else.Each of the Brothers in the series had something special about them that lure me in.
Theoretically Jane had operated on his heart, not his head, but he hadn't been right since he'd been on her table.
I also like how he had a dark past.
I really like Jane as the heroine.
I've always like how the books in the series had elaborate parallel plots.
However, I do feel their stories overshadowed V and Jane's.
It made me changed my opinion on her seeing her different side.Standalone Books in the series:Must be read in order
As far as romance novel heroes go, Vishous is a deviant.
He’s in love with another man.
She’s a human.
My internal judge and jury are still deliberating on whether it was good weird or bad weird although I’m kind of leaning towards bad, so…yeah.The first three-quarters of this book were really outstanding; I thought (as all addicts say when they’re flying high).
I suppose the judge and jury can deliberate on him for awhile as well since I still haven’t read the sixth book and it’s fairly obvious that Ward doesn’t plan on stopping this series any time soon.
5 Wickedly Sexy.....VISHOUS stars This is the fifth book in the Black Dagger Brotherhood series and in my opinion....the best one yet!!! This is the story of V and Jane.Vishous has a dark side and doesn't do relationships....until he meets Dr. Jane. They meet under not so great circumstances....but the chemistry is instant and incredibly hot. Will Jane fall under V's spell? I know i would...LOL! You will just have to read it to find out...go look at my V pics in my review and you tell me you're
5 Wickedly Sexy.....VISHOUS stars
This is the story of V and Jane.Vishous has a dark side and doesn't do relationships....until he meets Dr. Jane.
Will Jane fall under V's spell?
GO READ THIS!!!Now on to read Phury's book
"Don't get your romantic side fired up about me and Jane, buddy.She's human."Butch's jaw dropped and he pulled a bobble.
And here I thought shewas a sheep."V shot Butch a fuck-ya stare.”Shit...
The idea that you might only cripple the guy makes me feel a fuck of a lot better about leaving you here.” (V & Butch)
J. R. Ward... Sólo puedo decir:Chica, lo has hecho de nuevo. Creo que Vishous y Zsadist están en una batalla por el trofeo quién le saca más lágrimas a Gaby. Y yo aquí pensando que ningún libro lograría superar a Amante despierto, mira por donde, creo que lo logró.  Caer en desgracia era un poco como enamorarse: las dos cosas significaban quedar desnudo y expuesto, tal y como era uno por dentro.Y de acuerdo con su limitada experiencia, el final de las dos cosas era igual de doloroso.  Este libro
(hide spoiler)]; de su presente, que ya conocíamos un poco con el libro anterior, y sabemos que no es nada lindo tampoco; y de su futuro, que, déjenme decirles, se pone peor.Ni siquiera sé cómo explicarme.Vamos a ver, que sabemos todo ese feeling que hay entre V y Butch, y sabemos cuánto sufre ahora que él está con Marissa.Luego entra en el panorama Jane, encendiendo en V sus mejores partes.
(hide spoiler)]Y ese epílogo, no sé ustedes, pero es uno de los mejores que he leído.
Ya no me quedaban lágrimas a esas alturas, pero el dolor igual estuvo presente.En serio, Ward tiene que controlarse con los sentimientos fuertes.
I so loved the other books that I have read so far so maybe my expectations were way too high.
But I dunno, I try to trust in it now.
Where we end up, who we know, what happens to the people we love...
we don't have a lot of control over any of it.”I did like it, just did not LOVE it.
Butch is still my favourite character and as I had just finished reading his story, maybe I should have taken a little break and read something in between.
I know, I need to get over myself on this!What to read next?
That Vishous was cheated out of a mate...they hate/or hate that Jane ended up like she did.
(I am really trying not to spoil anything...lol)I thought Vishous and Jane were a very compelling couple.
Personally, after reading this book I found that Vishous is probably the most tortured, misunderstood brother to date.
I simply loved this book, and I can't WAIT to read PHURY'S...ugh that man...er vampire...drives me crazy!I am really curious to see what y'all thought of this one.
Re- Read March 2013 V....v...v...
You + Jane + Bathroom scene =  I still loved this book but hated the ending...
April 2012 V my man..
V is such a dude… I love him, not as in a “want to strip him naked and do inappropriate things to him” way like I do with Z, but as in a let’s share some Goose (also my fav!) and listen to rap, while watching sports kind of way … This book tells the Story of V and a very stubborn, cocky, smart-ass, smart, sexy Doc Jane.
She’s kinda like a female ve
V is such a dude… I love him, not as in a “want to strip him naked and do inappropriate things to him” way like I do with Z, but as in a let’s share some Goose (also my fav!) and listen to rap, while watching sports kind of way … This book tells the Story of V and a very stubborn, cocky, smart-ass, smart, sexy Doc Jane.
I can’t get enough of these books.
(view spoiler)[ Not only did I "tear up" when Jane died and he tried to bring her back to life, but I also did when he went to see the Scribe Virgin and all her birds were gone, so he brought her some!
Instead of them, Vishous has to face an unexpected enemy.The way Ward prepares and runs the story of a character is outstanding.
It's a reread, so now I understand and enjoy all those little hints which have a strong significance regarding to the following books.
The maze of links created between the characters is truly amazing.The endingThe HEA of Vishous and Jane is unsatisfying: forced and a little bit creepy.All in allLover Unbound is a great installment of the series.
5+ stars - Vampire RomanceA lot of BDB series fans were unhappy with this book, but I loved it.
I thought the relationship between warrior/brother Vishous and smart doc Jane was refreshing and incredibly sexy.
The BDSM scenes were erotic, yet surprisingly sweet and tender.
V is a total badass, and I love the way he and Butch sling teasing jibes and quips left and right at each other, yet there’s a deep, underlying respect and affection between them that adds a beautiful element to the story and to the entire series.
This is my third favorite book (after Lover Awakened and Lover Eternal) in the amazing, phenomenal BDB series.
I just can’t say enough...I LOVE the Brothers!
“Vampires do not exist.”“We don’t? Then explain why you’re in my wonder-fucking-land.”This book made me smile, made me swoon, warmed my heart, made me sad, and made me sob shoulder shaking tears......... Why???  “He was six feet, six inches tall and built like a brick shithouse.” He's a genius who would rival Einstein, he's sexually experienced in the extreme...in ALL areas imaginable and I mean ALL. He has particular needs in order to quench his appetite.....to achieve orgasm and satisfy his bl
(hide spoiler)] This melted my heart and made me sob.....just beautiful ♥Another matching soul for Vishous, is his wonderful cop friend who is now also a Brother.....Butch.
(hide spoiler)]♥ So far my love for the Black Dagger Brotherhood is never ending, Vishous is my favourite but my love order for the other delicious brothers changes on a daily basis....Butch has been the biggest surprise for me, Zsadist is solid and always has a presence in my thoughts....and John Matthew is coming into view....there are many more and I LOVE them all!!!
I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
I had no problem with the short sex scenes or the lack of chemistry between Vishous and Jane.
But my only complaint about this one was the ending.
It was strange, jarring, and too abrupt.
It was kind of weird to live their lives like THAT!
I thought V deserved real happiness after all he had been through!
The author made them look so pathetic!When I was a little more than halfway through the stroy, I was thinking about giving this book 5 stars, but the last quarter and the ending made me reduce the rating to 4 instead.
Just for V -5 Grey Goose Stars I can't do this review justice because there is so much going on in this book that anytime you want to say something, I think it would be a spoiler. JR Ward gave me so much about so many of the characters that my review would be so long that you would have to eat breakfast, lunch and dinner reading my review!! Here is my condensed version.Hot, Dangerous, Sexy, Dominant, His Body, His Eyes, Tattoos, Bisexual, Intelligent, Technology Wiz, Smart Ass- some of the words
But before she return to her life, their love story develops out of talking and trusting.
V, never trusting or loving anyone besides Butch, finds out what he has been missing his whole life and her name is Jane.
I am the first to tell you that I would have never, ever, wanted to read about Vampires, but as one lovely lady told me, you need to go outside your comfort zone, and give it a try.
My suggestion is to read this series, this book and here is why....
♡ 4.5 STARS. ♡  "Falling into ruin was a bit like falling in love: Both descents stripped you bare and left you as you were at your core."  Although I really enjoyed Vishous and Jane's story, I didn't love this book as much as some of the previous parts in the series. Don't get me wrong, I loved Vishous and Jane's storyline and I thought they made a perfect couple with Jane being one of the few women, strong and determined enough to stand up to someone like V. And V's past was just so heartbreak
"Falling into ruin was a bit like falling in love: Both descents stripped you bare and left you as you were at your core."
Although I really enjoyed Vishous and Jane's story, I didn't love this book as much as some of the previous parts in the series.
Don't get me wrong, I loved Vishous and Jane's storyline and I thought they made a perfect couple with Jane being one of the few women, strong and determined enough to stand up to someone like V.
Butch's book, Lover Revealed, was such a disappointment, I was hesitant to continue the series, but I loved V so much, I needed to find out if he got a heroine worthy of him!
Well the other half of the bromance got his due and J.R Ward hit it OUT OF THE PARK  in Lover Unbound!!Jane and V...a match made in Brotherhood heaven!!
Not only did this book offer up a great pairing with Jane and V, we got more John...John, John, John.
I'm looking forward to Phury's book, but the one I can't wait to get to is John's!!
The story of Vishous is beautiful and heartbreaking.Let's start by saying that I was a fairly unimpressed by the previous book, Lover Revealed (you can read my review here).
(hide spoiler)]As I've stated in my previous reviews, one of the many strengths of this series is J.R. Ward's ability to maintain multiple elaborate plot-lines for secondary and tertiary characters while maintaining focus on the main couple in each book...
(view spoiler)[For as much as I'm enjoying the BDB Series, J.R. Ward is getting into the nasty habit of making her characters have a mental breakdown / rock-bottom situation directly before their Solo Book...
