https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/312082.The_Well_Wishers
Another great book in the Edward Eager collection. This one is a bit different from the others, even somewhat different than the preceding one, though it features the same group of children. It is written as though from the perspective of each of the children, which gives it a nice character. And the focus is on growing up and doing good for neighbors. Well written, as ever, and a delight to read.
I love the way the author writes this beautiful fantasy story while overall maintaining a plausible plot. The fantasy isn’t overdone. The main characters are all so lovable. I loved seeing the different view points and writing styles of the various characters and seeing them grow.
The five children are back for more magic from their wishing well.
But this time the magic is including all sorts of unsuitable people in their adventures, and the children aren't sure if they can accept these new people encroaching on their magic business.
Surely, the magic wouldn't expect them to make friends with a dangerous witch!
They learn that anyone can become a friend if only you show them acceptance and kindness.The only thing that I didn't like about this book was the changing POV.
This is the sixth book in the Tales of Magic series by Edward Eager.interesting quotes:"Physical violence never solved anything in the world, we all realize." (p.
3)"Sticks and stones may break your bones, but names and plain truths and meanness can go much deeper and cut you to the quick." (pp.
18-19)"The books tell all about knights and musketeers rescuing beautiful damsels.
But they never put in what Lancelot said to Elaine on the ride home.
Or D'Artagnan to Milady de Winter, either." (p.
If you want to call it believing in magic, okay, call it that." (pp.
Edward Eager's books were stories I loved as a child and having re-read them as an adult I still quite enjoy them. The stories and characters hold up to the test of time. These books are clever and intriguing and the characters are very endearing.
This is one of Edward Eager's cheesiest books. I know it's meant to be a deeper read (not as magic, more good deeds and such), but that makes it not as much fun. The problems throughout the book are all solved much too quickly, with very little plot arc.
Besides the first in the series, this one has been my favorite.
I took particular issue with how one of the stories was handled.SPOILERSAbout midway through the book there is a great deal of hoopla in this little Connecticut town because an African American family is moving in.
The kids telling the story want to create another and bigger group of people to welcome the family.
This would have made a reasonable story and a possibility for further discussion with my children.However, Eager didn't come out and say the family was African American.
He spends an entire chapter discussing this mysterious family that "the Smugs," as Eager names them, don't want in their town.
In this one, the magic wishing well is up to its old tricks.
The children make wishes, but they're not sure if it's really the well.
This book, oddly enough, is written in first person, from multiple perspectives of the children.
Of course, it's easy to figure out who the character is!The "magic" in these two books are not as prominent.
(The book was written in the 1960s.) I love how little Deborah puts it when she first meets the family: "Oh, that's what the fuss is all about." And I love the friendship that develops between her and the little boy, Hannibal.[3.5 Stars]
I have long loved Edward Eager's tales of magic and was delighted to find this first edition from the UK which in its former life was part of a library in Glasgow.
You know, the magic in things around us.
It was comforting to me right now when I am wondering about what impact my life has had, if any, on those around me.
Maybe I can think I've done some little magic somehow in my relationships with people at work, the students I've gotten to know and my family.
I love them all and wish them all well.
I really like how this book and that last book use a subtle form of magic.
It really makes you wonder if it is magic or not.
But not only that but this book also tackles the moral issue of accepting others which was a big issue when this book was written...
and sadly it is still a big issue.
You would think that we would have been able to put that behind us now and move on but we still struggle.
Some people may not think this is appropriate to put in a children's book.
Definitely a good read for all children!
This is the one that broke me. I was okay with the previous one, with the magic not really being real, being the product of the children's good deeds, but this one was too disjointed for me. I don't know if it was the transition into an "I" book from each of the character's perspectives or something else. Anyway, while still delightful this one lost a bit of the magic for me.
This was my favorite book as a child. I was happy to find it on eBay and am reliving a more innocent time. It's reminded me of a more idealistic me, when I believed in magic and the good in the world.
The important thing to realize about The Well-Wishers is that it's an homage to Nesbit's Bastable children books, instead of Nesbit's Phoenix/Psammead/other straight-up-unequivocally-magical books like the earlier Eager books are. The ambiguity of the kid's adventures, the conceit of the kids writing the book themselves, the focus on good deeds / improving the community, the "grown-up author winking at grown-up reader over the kids' heads" (eg the two chapters about redlining that never explicitly discuss why people want to keep the black family out of town) are all very reminiscent of the Bastable books.
http://readfantasybooks.wordpress.comThe Well-Wishers is the second part of the previous Tales of Magic book, Magic or Not?, which includes the same children we have come to adore!
You really get to know more about the characters and I felt like part of their group.There is so much more to learn about each of the characters in this book.
Anyway, the characters are great!I like the plot , but it is closely related to the previous book, but with different adventures.
I also like how there are several lessons to be learned in this novel that are important for children to know.
So I am beginning this story, and after that each one will tell what happened to him or her, as the case may be, and each one will tell it in his own way.
Only we have made one rule, which is not to tell about the days when nothing happened, because who would want to read about them?
Still well-told, and always witty, with that thread of satire running beneath every character pronouncement, but less fresh overall, less memorable.The on chapter that struck me most this time was the way Eager treated Deborah's story of the first black family to move to town.
AND I REALLY LOVE IT.It's kind of the perfect sequel: similar enough to Magic or Not to give me the warm squishy feelings of reading a really awesome book, but different enough so it's not just the same story over again.
(Though it still had the same maybe-it's-magic-maybe-not kind of feel to it as in the first book.)I actually think The Well-Wishers could stand on its own well enough, if you haven't read Magic or Not?
But I think it's best read on the wings of the awesomeness of the first book, just because I'm picky like that.
(This is the same as my review of Magic or Not)Edward Eager was one of my favorite authors when I was a child.
(The others I read countless times!)What I liked about Eager's other books was that magical adventures befell ordinary children living in ordinary neighborhoods in the United States.
I can appreciate the author's attempt to do something different from the rest of his canon, and from my adult point of view, I definitely see a supernatural touch in both books.
And I am glad that the author went back to form in his last book, Seven Day Magic.

This and  Magic or Not?
There's that chill you get when the coincidences stack up and you debate with yourself whether there was magic or not?
However, I enjoyed Gordy and Dicky's growing-up, and love Lydia to bits, so it was alright.
Surprisingly, there was no mention of Deborah's strange low voice, and she seems almost normal in this book except for a few instances where she starts talking about squirrels or something.
Weird baby.
It's sad that they're all growing up.
(view spoiler)[ reminds me of Narnia, when Peter's the first to doubt its existence.
(hide spoiler)] But it has to be done!
As I said in my review of Magic or Not?, this is my least favorite duo in the series.
And The Well-Wishers is definitely my least favorite of the books overall.
I previously thought the whole series deserved 5 stars but after re-reading this one, it's definitely nowhere near the others so I can't give it that honor.
I think the first-person perspective is a big part of the problem — the kids in the previous books had flaws, and that was okay, but reading everything from each kid's perspective, with all their thoughts and everything, kind of made me not like them as much.
This book was pretty good, but not nearly as entertaining as Edward Eager's book Half Magic.
Half Magic is 5.0 on the AR reading list, and is a very fun book about a charm some children find that only grants half of what you wish.
In the well-wishers, you could choose to view many of the situations (if not all) as simple coincidences and not really magic.
David said that Seven Day magic was pretty fun to read also (I haven't tried that one) but I think I'll be done with Edward Eager for now.
I don't think I'll like any of his books as much as Half Magic.
Unlike any book in its series, The Well-Wishers by Edward Eager is a story told by fictional characters, which started out with an intro by James, followed by the true beginning of the magic.
And at the end, when the magic finally suspended, Laura concluded the story by making everyone write their endings as the fictional children.This story is full of mystery; conundrums that make the reader try to predict the next part.
This story has lots of good parts that I really enjoy, and I recommend the book to you.
Once again, Eager has done a great job of portraying some very realistic kids, both in how they act and in how they think.
James was certainly amusing as a character, especially as he thought himself a man at the end of the book.
Eager does a good job of providing an entertaining story as well as things for grown-ups to chuckle at.Rating: G.*SMALL SPOILER AHEAD*So it took me some thinking to understand what was different about the new family.
When I realized the book was written back in the '50s, I realized that they must have been black.
WHAT I LEARNED FROM THIZ BOOK IS #1 THAT THEY LIKE TO WISH ALOT #2 IS THAT WHEN THEY USE IT SOMETIMES IT DONT WORK BECAUSE THEY SAY THE WELL DOESNT WORK.
#3 IS THAT THEY HATE WAITING FOR THERE WISH BECAUSE IT TAKES SO LONG THAT THEY KEEP PUTING MORE WISHES IN IT.
THATS ALL I GOT 4 NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!#4 my review from thiz book is that gordy threatens the old well, telling it to get going with its magic or eles!and that seems to do the trick.
suddenly laura, lydia, james,and kip- who feared thier autummn would magic- rare plunged into just the sorts of outlandish advantures they'd longed for.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
So, I had started to think that Eager's stories were getting a little repetitive, and I just got proved wrong. Seeing the story from the kids' perspective was a really cool touch and it was something very unique. As always, I loved the tone he writes in, but this one was something special. Whether it was just because it was from the new point of view, or because of the deeper messages he wove in, I think this just became my favorite tale of magic.
I really like this series so far. It's a bit outdated, but the themes in this one are very relevant to this day. What I particularly liked about this book was the fact that rather than an extravagant magical adventure, these children see magic as the opportunities that they are given to help people, making the story's problems and solutions relatable for children who read it.
Edward Eager's books are classics, and some of my very favorites from childhood. The illustrations by N.M. Bodeker were a huge influence on me, and I loved the stories (you think Harry Potter is original? Hardly). These are excellent books, published mid-century, that build on a foundation laid decades earlier by masters like E. Nesbit.
The "Well Wishers",( in contrast to "Magic or Not") is written first person from the point of view of multiple characters. This gives it an almost unbearably precious tone. Really the only thing I can say I like about this book was the discovery and reclamation of an abandoned house. I do like the idea of a fixer-upper. Otherwise, this book is not a keeper.
Another book from the SF binge. Fabulously reminiscent of Nesbit
