https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80879.Rosa_Parks
Rosa Parks is perhaps one of the most inspirational women of the United States, taking a stand (or should I say seat) and refusing to submit to the attitude of the times. Her story is one that everyone should read, and it goes to show that it only takes one person to fuel great changes against prejudice and injustice within society.
"Every one living together in peace and harmony and love... that's the goal that we seek, and I think that the more people there are who reach that state of mind, the better we will all be"
Interesting look at the emerging Civil Rights movement from one of its primary actors. I had to do a little checking on Wikipedia since some of the names and places were unfamiliar to me. But I enjoyed hearing Rosa Parks' version of the story. Her narrative style is simple, given her limited educational opportunities. She comes across as a woman humbled and grateful to have played a part in history but at the same time, content to give credit to others and stay out of the spotlight except when it would help a worthy cause.
Read this while I was doing research for my short story, "Conan Vs. Rosa Parks." Went to the Henry Ford Museum the following week and actually sat on the Cleveland Ave. bus in the same seat she sat in.
i learned that in this book rosa parks did not only stick up for her rights and beliefs, but for her people to.
Rosa parks had a great way of saying what she wanted to say in a different way.
The point of view in this biography was Rosa Parks obviously its her book.
“ I’m in jail.
Rosa had a lot of courage and bravery when she told the bus driver no.
Rosa was not such a public speaker but she did grow a lot through the book.
The theme in this book is to me a lot about bravery and not giving up when you set a goal for yourself.
I hope you will read this book and enjoy it as much as I did.
Rosa Parks: My Story by Rosa Parks.Main people are Rosa Parks, Marten Luther King JR the event was in Alabama 1950's.
In this book the conflict was that immergration and it happened on the bus and a white man came on and she didn't give up her seat to the man and the driver call the police and the police sent her to jail for not giving up her seat.
In this is a self Biogrphy This woman is my hero she was so brave not to give up her seat to a white person and she know that she would get in trouble but that did not stop her form doing the brave thing she said and did.
This book was an autobiography on American Hero, Rosa Parks(208 pages).
I enjoyed reading this book so much because it it taught me and showed me how bad racist people could be back in the day.
If one "colored" person would try to say anything to another "white" person they could get themselves hung or in jail.
Rosa Parks learned to live through many hard times.
This book will teach anyone who reads it to be thankful for what they have to this day and how poeple should threat others fair.
Now many look up to Rosa Parks because she was determind to end segragation and did suceed.
Rosa Parks is a strong women who fights for what she believes in. I loved reading this book because women who fight for themselves and are strong, powerful, and encouraging are very inspiring to me. Because Rosa Parks is such an inspirational person I think everyone should read this book. Overall i think if you're looking for a book about equal rights and equality and what people did to earn equality, this is the book for you. I also recommend this to people that like to learn about segregation.
I enjoyed this book greatly. I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in civil rights or the time period of the 1960s. This made me really understand how hard it was for people who weren't accepted growing up. her story has really inspired me on a whole new level. Seriously, a great book, I suggest reading for yourself.
I now admire Rosa Parks even more, and have a much deeper respect for her. She was courageous and a very strong (also proud) inspirational women. You must read to understand her bravery. Please the movie si no where close to demonstrate what she had gone through.
I read this in like 5th grade and absolutely loved it. Opened me eyes to racism and the ability to rise against.
Happy 100th Birthday, Rosa. Thank you for telling us about your life in your own words. It sure cleared-up and complexified my understanding of your role in the Civil Rights Movememt and beyond.
Back in the fourth grade this was my favorite book. My copy of this book looks messed up now. That's how much I loved this book and how awesome it was.
It's pretty good.I had to read it for school.At first, I thought it was going to be super boring but it was accually pretty good.
Rosa's life is traced from childhood to elderly, including the particulars of her mindset throughout her life during the turbulent Civil Rights era.
Reading this book I was so impressed by her courage and determination.
The new laws offered protection to African Americans, but prejudice attitudes were not eradicated, which makes me uncomfortable as a white man.
I learned from reading Rosa's story that much work remains in regards to equality for all persons in the United States of America.
The Civil Rights era needs to be learned by all students regardless of race or background.
She was sitting on the bus riding home from work, when the white man told her to move to the back of the bus where the negroes were to ride.
She was arrested and then taken to jail.She wanted things to change and because of her, they were changed eventually!
It took a long time for things to change in the South, but they did finally change.
It was not until the 1960s when Black people saw themselves as regular people not less than whites.This was a very well written book and well worth the time to read.
I was aware of the racism that exist towards African American in the U.S but I've never knew that it was even worst back then.
Rosa Park's story is so simple; she refused to give up her seat on the bus to a white man so she was put in jail.
Her life story is so inspirational either as people of color or as a woman.
Personal note (view spoiler)[ I'm glad that I'm doing the Reading Women Challenge and one of the challenge is to read "a book by an African American Woman about Civil Rights" & found this in the library.
(hide spoiler)]
This is a compact version, from a school library. It talks about Rosa's life in a first person point of view about her childhood and teen years, to both black and white people they knew in their town, and leads up to the defining moment where she refused to give up her seat on the bus on that day.
such a great read the book is awesome and tells the story from Rosa parks eyes.
Good book. Includes a lot of information as well as corrections to false information printed elsewhere. However, it has false information as well. I am confused as to why she says that she and Claudette Colvin’s mother were plaintiffs in the Browder case of 1956, when they were actually Aurelia Browder, Susie McDonald, Jeanette Reese, Claudette Colvin, and Mary Louise Smith. Also, I am baffled as to why people keep claiming that Claudette Colvin’s pregnancy was the reason her case was not followed up to a higher court when she didn’t become pregnant until months later.
But Rosa didn’t give up, she told him she doesn’t care.
The main character of the book Rosa Parks was Rosa Parks; she was a very nice and caring lady.
Rosa Parks didn’t grow a lot in the story because Rosa Parks showed love, careness, and loyalty from the beginning of the book.
From the actions of the main characters, the reader learns that you should always be equal, all of this made the plot of the story very exciting because the story had a lot of problems and it gave a very important lesson that everyone should know.
Rosa Parks was an African American free woman during the time of segregations between the colored people and the whites.
Rosa parks also inspired those who had been under the thumb of the white men to rise up and fight for their freedom.
Rosa’s legacy is nothing short of unbelievable, through her simple yet genius actions she has inspired both the black and whites a like to fight for personal freedom and equal rights.
I would like to recommend this edition about Rosa Parks by People in the News because it is a truly inspiration story that has incited rebellion and a fight for freedom.
Rosa Parks: My Story tells you the full indepth story of the civil rights movement from someone who was a big part of it.
Written by Rosa Parks with help from Jim Haskins, this memoir starts out with a tale of equality, even before the civil rights movement took play.
That's the goal we seek, and I think the more people there are who reach that state of mind, the better we will all be.” Rosa Parks : My Story shows a rare perspective of the Civil Rights Movement in detail.
I recommend this book to anyone interested in the Civil Rights Movement and this hero of it.
November, Rosa Parks : My Story, by Rosa Parks In the auto-biography Rosa Parks : My Story it explores Parks adventures from her life to her bus boycott.
Later igniting the bus boycott, and moving segregation into more humane ways.
I believe the auto-biography has an important theme, that you can do anything if you try hard enough.
For example Rosa gives up a lot by going to trials and jail but still kept with it, to change American ways.
As well as that others joined in with the enormous bus boycott to speak louder and try as hard as they could to fix these wretched ways.
Back then blacks were not allowed to sit on certain places on the bus but that day Rosa parks shocked the world.She was asked to get up but she refused to because she didn't want to loose her seat to a white man.
My least favorite part was when she was thrown off the bus because she was just standing up for her rights.I would recommend this book to all black women due to the fact it could teach them how to be strong.
This book is like totally amazing and I would not mind reading it over and over again.The main CHARACTER of this book is Rosa Parks McCauley.After all she wrote the book.
The setting is mostly in Alabama around the late 1950's, but the most important thing that changed the way we live today is the Bus Boycott that happened in Montgomery, Alabama 1955.
I really liked this book and you should really read it because it can change you inside, you may start thinking more positively about things, or you may have a problem that might be kinda similar to hers and you can use her examples and follow them.So just read it...
It tells tons of info on how she became apart of the civil rights movement and how she impacted our country.
One of the most famous parts of this book is when Rosa Parks says “the only tired I was, was tired of giving in.” That is a very strong quote and to mean it meant the basis of the civil rights movement.
It symbolizes that Rosa Parks was never gonna give up on equality and that reason was because she knew what was fair and what wasn’t.
That she was just tired of showing like inequality was fair.
She talks about the event leading up to her arrest and how she had to adjust to life outside of th jail.
Every child should know about Rosa Parks and her story5) Small group use (literary circles): As a group we can discuss the events leading up to Rosa Parks arrest.
Also, we can talk about some important leaders during this movement.6) Whole class use (read aloud): We can go over a mini lesson of the Civil Rights Movement and why it is so important to history today.7) Related books in genre/subject or content area: Who Was Rosa Parks, Journey of the Sparrow8) Multimedia connections (audio book, movie) available: Hardcover, Paperback
This was a great, great nonfiction piece of literature about a crucial time in our history: the Civil Rights Movement.
I think that as humans we need to unite and work against injustices more often.
The concept of nonviolence which was practiced by Dr. Martin Luther King is also inspiring.
Rosa herself states that she does not always agree with this method, but in this case nonviolence was what made the entire Civil Rights Movement so successful.
in our society we learn that we need to fight for our rights.
Maybe the difference is that nonviolence requires assertiveness and not aggressiveness...
