https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/259861.Lost_in_the_Barrens
not my favorite book in the world. :(
Farley Mowat has done well in this book in capturing the hardships of survival in the arctic plains of Canada.
In this page turner, you will read about the trials that a pair of boys must go through after their canoe is wrecked on a river far north in Canada's tundra.
Jamie MaCnair, a Canadian born in Toronto, lives with his uncle Angus on the shores of a lake far north of Manitoba after his parents tragic car accident.
Awasin, Jamie's best friend, is a Cree boy who lives near the Macnairs in a village, where he is the Chiefs son.
As an environmental outdoor education teacher I am always looking for great novels for my students to read that will help teach a variety of concepts. After reading this book I have selected this as my choice for grade eight
they had knife shard and a musket with 100 bullets.
Before winter came they had a short period of time making a cabin and get food and half way through the winter there was a blizzard that made them home sick and after it ended they decided to go to the others camp witch was weeks away right when they were about to turn around they found a Eskimo that helped them get home.
the reasons why i like this book is because it teaches you how to survive in the wilderness and build a cabin.
It's a wonderful "Coming of Age" tale full of danger, adventure, and friendship, set in the wilds of North East Canada and Western Alaska.
For me, it was everything Call of the Wild by Jack London turned out to be, and better, since I was the same age as the characters in the book.
Farley Mowat has a wonderful sense of touch and there are messages in this book about getting along, racism and how to handle it, and how to be someone's friend.
I haven't bumped into the same feelings this book inspired until last year when I read Allen Steele's Coyote.
The character strength for the main character is that he is courageous. The reason for that is because his friend and himself had to spend a winter in Eskimo territory.
Still my favorite book!
As I read this book I updated my sister constantly with what was befalling the boys on their travels, much to her disdain.
Then I read it was about two teenager boys who get lost in the wilderness and have to survive.
"Like Hatchet?" My husband asked.
"Like Hatchet?" My (aforementioned) sister asked.
But what's different about this novel is the boys are lost far far up North in the winter and start out with more survival skills.
"Holy Shit Moment" is one of my tags because crazy shit happens to them all the time.
I never read it as a kid and probably would have enjoyed it more at that time.
I found Jamie to be kind of an annoying character, pushing his wiser friend to break the rules and do stupid things.
Some of the hunting scenes were needlessly emotional (e.g. drawing the action out, describing the reactions of the prey etc.).
I just read The Hunger Games and though there was a lot of hunting in that one too, the author tells rather than shows.
Of course, there was some sexism (things described as "women's work" etc) and it utterly failed the Bechdel test.
A book that presents the far north as it really isAgain, Farley Mowat demonstrates that which makes him clearly on of Canada's greatest treasures.A fictional book, it nevertheless portrays the beautiful tundra of the north. Anyone reading it will be carried by the story but will learn of the beauty of the Barrens, despite its unforgiving brutality.A book I have read many times and never cease to be impressed by the true beauty of the North!
A bit mythical in plot; interesting facts of the area weaved into the storyline nonetheless.
The field of Canada’s explorations for once open up for a high adventure brought by the eyes of quite young boys who happen alert and strong enough to endure such.Right off Mowat delineates shades and separates distinction of Jamie’s provisional trial in the wilderness of Canada.
He lives rough and with those Indians living in the land at hand.After all Mowat depicts around his main character Jamie, Jamie’s uncle as Angus Macnair and perhaps as the influence of Jamie.
This is obviously Jamie’s belief too, as Mowat surprises the reader suddenly in the life style of living farther north of Canada.The adventure and Barrenlands is making its introduction in the mind of young Jamie.
Well, that one sent me back to fourth and fifth grade.
I am fascinated by the far North, and by living off the land; this book has sparked a desire in me to reread Julie of the Wolves and other Jean Craighead George, including my favorite book from when I was 10-13 (My Side of the Mountain).
Also, I've put Wilderness Inquiry on my list for next summer, as I have no vacation time I can use for it this year.I don't think I can actually review the book because it just sparked so many other feelings of nostalgia and desire for wilderness that I can't judge it as a work on its own.
The boys go on a trip North with a group of Chippewas whose village is in danger of starving if they don't travel further North in search of caribou to hunt.
The boys travel further North with the hunters of the Chippewa tribe but eventually decide to go off on their own adventure.
They use their ingenuity and experience to survive and do an impressive job of carving out their own little piece of home while they are stuck in this unforgiving land.
This was a fun read and I even learned quite a bit about how people live their lives and survive when living in the far North of Alaska.
This is the first book that I ever owned, and I still have the original copy from 1976.
I love my now extensive personal library, and attribute it to this one teacher, and this one book.Lost in the Barrens was a great story about determination, and about two boys learning to survive together when they were separated from their parents.
They eventually realized that they would have to make it through the cold, hard winter in the Northern Barrens, and they did.It's a great story full of interesting information about lands where Farley Mowat has personally spent many, many years.I recently read this book to my children, and they loved it as much as I did.
Likely I will re-read this one now that I am an adult.My initial rating and review were based on memories of having read the book in childhood.
And, if you add to it that the book is a solid adventure story for young adults.
Then, I must agree with my initial impressions and keep the five star rating and my strong appreciation for the story that Mowat told, including that he re-ignited in my a love for a land I have not yet seen and peoples that I might have on occasion met when they came to the southern latitudes.
This book is amazing.
I read this book years ago in elementary school.
I "accidentally" kept it.
Fast forward 15 years later.
I decided to reread it.
I remember why I love this book so much.
This book takes place in my home province and deals with how utterly cold and desolate it can be in the winter time.
Mowat really draws you into the story and makes you feel for these 2 boys and marvel at how ingenious they are.
This is a great read and one that I will definitely go back to in years to come.
I really liked this book because it was really easy to relate to the characters. There were two boys who were similar to my age. They also liked the wilderness which is one of my interests as well. They also grew up in canada which is very similar to the United States. I also liked this book because it was very action packed and scary at some points, it really kept me interested and amused. It was really fun reading this book and i recomend it to anybody who has an interest in action packed dangerous stories!
I read this book when I was a kid in school, fifth grade maybe. One day many years ago I saw it at a thrift store and had to buy it. Nostalgic purposes. But it sat on my shelf for ages, untouched. I recently randomly decided to read it again (been binge watching Alone)....It's a really good book. Doesn't matter that it's so old, it doesn't feel outdated because it's about survival. Bare bones. Canadian classic.
I read this along with my 4th grader when it was assigned to him. It's a great adventure story for boys. I would recommend it for at least 4th grade or higher, as it was a good challenge for my son who is a good reader.
Yes, another young adult book, but what can I say? I like them. Fun read. Learned that the only fur that doesn't collect breath moisture was the wolverine and the wolf. Liked this book. Our boys will like it one day.
I enjoyed this just as much this time around as I did when I first read it as a child. Farley will be greatly missed, but his wonderful stories will live on forever!
This is a good book if you like Hatchet and other stories about being lost in the wilderness.
They encounter:rapids that destroy their canoe, matches, and most possessionsa stonehouse grave with Viking treasures (Farley tells its tale later in The Curse of the Viking Grave, 1967)physical injuries and starvationthe sight of 250,000 caribou moving in long files down the valley and later an epic huntwinter in the barrens and a blizzard that nearly kills them bothwild animals that they tame (a fawn and two lost sled dogs) and some that they don’t (wolverines and wolves)snowblindness (the White Fire) that nearly drives them madAt its heart is Awasin’s wisdom and Farley’s theme: “if you fight against the spirits of the north you will always lose.” Its echo resounds as the boys arrive home: “always travel with the forces of the land and never fight against them.”The Forces of the Land.I grew up in southern Ontario not far from where Farley spent his final days and some blue moons, the land calls me.
In this novel the main character, Jamie, moves north to work for some distant family members (the Crees).
After a while of working during the fall Jamie and Awasin are sent to help the Chipewyan tribe (the Crees rival) hunt for food.
The main characters, Jamie and Awasin, learned that they can trust the Eskimos and realized that they shouldn’t have trusted the Chipewyan tribe.
This is the conflict because during the majority of the story Jamie and Awasin are battling the harsh winter of northern Canada and they constantly struggled in providing themselves food.
Lost In the Barrens Book ReviewBy Lachlan CravenApril 25, 2018 This beautifully crafted novel is flawlessly descriptive, and is a true snapshot of the perfect adventure everyone dreams of getting lost in at some point; with twists and turns, it is a wild river ride to easily get lost in. Lost In the Barrens by Farley Mowat is definitely a journey worth taking. In the beginning of this book, the protagonist Jamie, a teenage boy from Toronto has to leave boarding school, and live with his uncle in
Lost In the Barrens by Farley Mowat is definitely a journey worth taking.
The fact that Mowat actually spent time in northern manitoba gives a very authentic feel to the way the story is told.
Farley Mowat’s ability to tell a good story is above and beyond.
Mowat’s masterful writing makes you feel like you are also part of the book, adventuring right alongside Jamie and Asawin.
The vocabulary in which Mowat chose to put in that specific order are all that makes this story so iconic and rewarding to read.
However, the plot doesn't really pick up until the middle of the book and things always seem to go right instead of wrong(see the next section).Immersion: 3/5 This story, while being very realistic has quite a few points that seem to be 'handwavium'.
And in fact, a lot of language used in the book shows that the author has an extensive knowledge of the arctic.Final Thoughts: Unfortunately, this wasn't much of a page-turner for me.
Overall, I enjoyed this book and would recommend it to someone if they enjoyed Hatchet or another survival story.
Name: Kai Book title: Lost In the BarrensAuthor: Farley MowatPublisher: McLelland and StewartCopyright date: 1956Total number of pages: 244SettingLost in the Barrens starts at Jamie’s uncle’s house.
As the story goes on, Jamie, the main character, meets an Indian boy.
As they are getting fish from the river Jamie and Awasin, the Indian boy, fall into the river.
By the time they get out of the river, both boys are lost.
The time of the year is in the late 1980’s.PlotThe conflict in the story is that their is two boys lost in the forest called the barrens.
I first picked this book up by mistake on one of the library trips my mom took me on--weekly occurences where she forbid me to check out more than two Nancy Drews at a time, forcing me to branch out--thank goodness.I don't know what I thought it was, but I remember opening it and going "there aren't any girls in this book, therefore no romance.
Well, I guess I'll read it because mom won't take me again for x number of days".
And it was a good book--a cross-country trek with dogs and sled across the Barrens that yes, they get lost in.
I'd read it again.
Lost in the Barrens is a thrilling book about two boys who get lost in the North Western Territories. Originally, Jamie and Awasin were on a deer run to find food for their people. They ended up venturing off from the group because they wanted to scout out the area by canoe. They were not paying attention to the rapids and were swept downstream. They ended up lost in the northern territories with winter only a month away. The book was easy to read and exciting because everyday something new was
They ended up lost in the northern territories with winter only a month away.
The book was easy to read and exciting because everyday something new was happening.
Everyday the boys were either collecting food, taming dogs, and building shelter or weapons which made this book exciting read.
Although the book was a great read, I did not like the ending.
Once the boys made it back to their home, the book ended.
It was an exciting and enthusiastic read about two boys with two different backgrounds who had to come together and face the harsh Northern Winter.
