https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56594.A_Severe_Mercy
Trying to condense this book into a tiny review will be rather difficult for me.
Countless times I've found myself trying to emulate things from this book, be it aspects of their relationship to pieces of Sheldon's personality that I found charming.
In summation this book is about three things: faith, love, and grief.
In my opinion, this book is one of the most interesting looks into faith, one of the most poignant commentaries on love, and one of the most moving accounts of grief I've ever read.
David, bored, whispered, "I can't wait until she dies." Hugh was aghast.I had heard that A Severe Mercy was about a married couple, madly in love, and that thier faith and marriage are tested by the wife (Davy) converting to Christianity and therefore loving God more than her husband, and her subsequent illness and death.
The husband finishes one of the books and writes a letter to Lewis, who writes back.
Therefore, God showed his "severe mercy" in taking Davy, thereby preserving their love for all eternity and also calling Davy home while her faith is strong.
This book is the story of a remarkable and true love story between the author and his wife. Their paths lead them to Yale and then to Oxford, where they become friends with C.S. Lewis. Eventually, they end up in Lynchburg, VA, when Vanauken becomes a professor of English at Lynchburg College. A line from this book ended up in one of my favourite Bruce Cockburn songs, "Fascist Architecture." See if you can find it.
The book traces their relationship from courtship through the early pagan (the author's term) years of marriage to the meeting and eventual friendship with C.S.Lewis who was instrumental in their eventual conversion to Christianity.While I enjoyed the book very much, as a woman and a mother, I did constantly wonder (as I read the book) at their decision not to have children.
In an interesting aside however, Lewis does chastize his friend, and very severely too, for the couple's decision to exclude children from their marriage, but only some time after Davy's death.
Any book the teaches me or opens me up gets at least three stars, no matter how much I'd like to be a judgmental ass and give it one or two.But seriously, if you're interested in how Vonnegut's duprass would look in the real world, and you want to understand free spirits, and you want to see beauty and love, this book is rich in all of that.Also, the author rewards you for paying attention to his words, which he highly values, by repeating certain themes, and I give props for some writing talent.
Thanks to Tata J for lending me another unforgettable book!
This is the second love story that made me cry (honest).
The first third of the book is your typical Nicholas Sparks story.
However, this early morning when I opened the book to read for the last time, I could no longer put it down and I could no longer sleep.
Thank you, Tata J!
You always know which books are really worth reading!Last week is just a exceptional one.
I have now lined up 3 other books recommended by Tata J.
Let's forget about 501 Must Read Books for the moment.
He reminds me of that guy you avoid at functions - he's got some good stories, but he talks on far too long and has a very high opinion of himself and all he's accomplished.I finished the book with a sigh of relief.
As he's grieving his wife's passing, he comes to realize that perhaps her death was good thing in that he never attempted to "damage or lessen her commitment to God" - but earlier in the book he admits to being jealous of the time she spends reading her Bible, and I cannot think she was unaware of this.Bottom line, I'm really glad it's over.
This is my second re-reading, first in my late teens and now in my early twenties.
It has meant so much more to me now, this second time.
Such a beautiful, unforgettable and yet terribly hard story.
It's been a long time since I've cried so much over a book.
I loved "the Shining Barrier"- what an image!
I loved seeing Lewis as the faithful and (at times) painfully honest friend.
From the last chapter:"When he [Lewis] died, I remembered his great shout across the Oxford High Street: 'Christians NEVER say goodbye!' In eternity there will be 'time enough'.
This book is amazing. Anyone who has really loved someone, or aspires to real love will take so much from this. It also has some beautiful things to say about grief and loss. Poetically written and so inspired!
I've had a somewhat ambivalent reaction to this book, which some friends have praised highly, reading it over and over, and others have regarded with extreme skepticism, even derision (usually in those who can't stand C.S. Lewis).The beginning is a description of a passionate love affair so all-consuming that it reads claustrophobic, even obsessive.
I hesitate to say that the presence of Davidman's children (whom Lewis adopted as enthusiastically as he had Maureen, the daughter of the problematical "Minto"), which forces even the most passionate couples to think about others outside themselves, was the difference, as Vanauken and his perfect Davy professed to have the perfect life without kids.
The first half plus of the book I found enchanting and enriching.
It was eye-opening to me as an on-looker at the beauty of relationships between man and woman, of the mystery of God’s drawing grace and penetration of skepticism (with some real kickers from Lewis about the threshold or leap of faith…see pg.
There is true depth and a special resonance with much of Vanauken’s musings for me, such as his thoughts of beauty.
It seems to strike a human tone—many things in his book.
After Davy’s death, some of his thoughts were beyond my experience and not as enthralling.
I find the book overall an excellent read, especially for my season in life.
A Severe Mercy by Sheldon Vanauken, recounts the life of Van and his wife Jean Davis, or Davy: the places they go, the people they meet, the faith they want to reject, and the transformation they undergo at the cost of a very severe mercy.
Before coming to Oxford, they had neither accepted nor rejected Jesus because they had never encountered Him. But now they had.
At this realization, Van exclaims in one of his letters to Lewis, “My God!
The Lord has made a way of mercy, but it is not without severity.
A truly special book. It is not only the love story of a man and a woman but also the story of the quiet relentless pursuit of them by God. A must read for everyone.
I do not often cry when reading books.
I don't know exactly why - I connected to it more than almost any book that I've read before.
And I loved knowing that there were other people who have felt the same way I do about things - about beauty and joy and longing, about eternity and love and hope and sorrow.
These were people that I could have been friends with, if I had lived in that bygone time.
I think we couldn't have NOT been friends.
In the pages of this book, I made friends outside the walls of time.
Anyone who has loved and lost will relate to Sheldon, an incredible writer and observer, and have difficulty not shedding a few more tears.
Sheldon got to a depth of feeling and humanity that I didn't expect in expressing love.
I think many would be jealous of a couple who managed to stay in the summer of their love for 15 years and wish for their own "Shining Barrier" to ward off anything that would harm love's growth.
Fans of C.S. Lewis would enjoy his friendship with the couple and his instrumental influence in them finding truth.
Beautifully recorded journey of a man's relationship with God strengthened through the grief of losing his wife.
If not recommended to me by a very good friend whose judgment I trust, I probably would not have persevered past the first one fourth of the book.
But then came their time in Oxford and all that came after it, and I began to understand why my friend recommended this book.
To be honest, that's one of the best elements of the book, and certainly the line that hit me: "Of course I do not know.
This is a book that I absolutely love, about a couple who decide to live with their love as their God. It's a pretty amazing relationship, and along the way, they encounter the Living God. It's such a lovely story (and it's true!) and heartbreaking at the same time.
The only caveat is that the beginning of the book is dreadfully slow.
I urge anyone who starts reading this book to press on past Sheldon's little stroll down memory land, and wait for the good stuff.And, as an added bonus, our good friend C.S. Lewis makes an appearance midway through the book with our pair of heroes moves to England to go to school in Oxford.
It's definitely on my list of must-reads!
This is a lovely memoir which is half love story, one quarter faith story, and one quarter story about the author's exchange of letters with C.S. Lewis. The most interesting and unique aspect of the book was Vanauken's description of the oneness that he and his wife carefully planned and largely realized for a while. They called the concept the Shining Barrier--their way of living which would guard their love above all else because any sort of separation could constitute a wedge between them.
Told with such sincerity, the author's love story is unlike any I've heard before. Vanauken's prose is exquisite--a delight to read. I would recommend it to any romantic, to any academically-minded believer, to any living soul. This is one I'll read again and again.
Not only is this a beautiful and inspiring love story between he and Davy but more importantly, it is about their individual journies towards Christ and how that changed everything even their marriage.
This book is undoubtably painful to read since it is full of the inescapable aches of life but it is also deeply beautiful for it is full of the warmth and joy of knowing Christ.
I'm thankful for Sheldon's obedience in writing this book for I know I am one of countless others grateful to have read it.
Their story has touched my life and has been a beautiful revelation of Christ.
First, to clear up some misconceptions.  A Severe Mercy  is not a great love story. Someone (it might have been an English professor) once explained to me that Wuthering Heights is not a love story but a revenge story, and ever since then I've liked it a whole lot more. You have to approach A Severe Mercy the same way. It's a book about human relationships, yes, partly – but mainly it's a book about God reaching into one man's life and changing its course. As a love story, it actually kind of st
The author and his wife are obsessed with each other in an extremely unhealthy way – a fact which the author seems to deny to the end of the book, even after the unnatural and twisted aspects of their relationship are pointed out to him by no less a person than C.S. Lewis.
The major problem with reading this book as not-a-love-story is the author himself.
Finally, I'm not convinced of Van's eventual theory about God's involvement in Davy's death, and the idea of "The Severe Mercy." It all stems, at the very bottom, from his conviction that he is Pretty Special.
Just wow!
Thought provoking. Interesting following non believing couple come to faith.
This is one of the most beautiful books I’ve ever read. Raw emotion, deep spirituality and reason for hope. I will be thinking about this book for a long time to come.
I read this book before I was married, and I feel like it "gave me permission" to long for a level of emotional intimacy with my future marriage partner that I may not otherwise have known existed!
Sheldon & Davey, the two main characters in this book literally became best friends, soulmates on their journey towards marriage.Sheldon & Davey did a lot of radical things in their relationship that sort of became goals (or at least ideals) for me as I looked towards my future.
and would you mind if we read one of my favorite books together as part of our dating relationship?
On the other hand, I have to write a negative review.You know when people attempt to make a point (ex: 'There is no God!') and they emphasize how utterly unlikely it was they *they* should have reached said conclusion ('I used to the most religious person ever!') in an odd way of appealing to authority?
He makes sure to let us know early that Davy dies young, so we easily see how the tragedy of that loss emphasizes the depth of their love.Not only are they the most in love of any couple that's ever been in love, they are also completely unreligious.
CS Lewis, first through his books and later in person, is a major influence in their faith process.
He and wife meet many people that are Christians including CS Lewis.
God works through the relationships that they made with other people to help spur them into pursuing Christ.In the second half of the book, Van retells the tragic death of his wife, and discusses all that he felt, learned, and thought of during this period.
CS Lewis wrote him many letters that are included inside the manuscript of this book.
At the climax, the author realizes how God used the death of his wife as a "severe mercy" in his own life.
Now then:Summary: this is the story of two wildly intelligent persons who fall in love, go to Oxford, meet my hero C.S. Lewis, and become Christians.
Scene.As far as romance goes: by both poetic and theological (as a Calvinist, I believe that my wife and I were literally created for each other) inclination I am a pretty romantic individual, but the love story told in this book is wildly more impressive than anything I could put to paper.
As far as writing goes: Vanauken has a downright admirable style despite a tendency to the slightest hint of sentimentality.As far as C.S. Lewis goes: this book managed to make me like the man even more.
It's interesting because at the beginning of the book, I was kind of irritated by the author and his views on the purpose of life and his ideas of what love should be like.
Rather than finding it romantic, I thought a relationship of his type would be suffocating and obsessive!
But, I still have to say that my very favorite part was when C.S. Lewis told him that his romantic notions were selfish and he'd been living his life all wrong!
The book didn't turn out to be about how Mr. Vanauken (the author) was right, but how he was wrong!
