https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75489.The_Seminar_of_Jacques_Lacan
kind of interesting ideas, terribly conceited delivery from a pompous windbag
I am going to talk to you about the Lacan. Lucky for you, in this review I will demonstrate such an unquestionable comprehension of everything fundamentally psychoanalytical that not only will you finally be persuaded to read this book but also all debilitating misperceptions and insuperable aporias and smug dismissals and congenital ineptness will be rectified by the irresistible prowess of my lucidly sagacious yet easily digested and wholesomely uplifting discourse and you will then have been baptized in the fountain of knowledge to emerge forever purified of error.
Lacan okumak ciddi anlamda dikkat istiyor, okumakta en güçlük çektiğim kuramcı kendisi. Daha önce 6.45'den Fallus'un Anlamı'nı okumuştum, ondansa bu kitap benim için çok daha anlaşılır oldu- ki bence çeviri ile alakası var.  Lacan okumaya başlayacak olanlara tavsiyem okuyacakları sırayı bi bilene danışarak okumaları. Kullanılan kavramlara hakim olmak lazım, metni okumak ve anlamak zulüm haline gelebilir yoksa.
The Real is beyond the scope of language.
Reality is symbolically constructed through our usage of language we resolve to turn the Real into a hard kernel; and fail to express the trauma that can never be expressed in words.
(Basically he deconstructs his own position - the talking cure is impossible...and the only way to 'cure' anyone is through anti-transferrence where the analysand stands up and walks out of the psycho-analysts office).
First review - Rating:1 starTo say this is addressed to nonspeicalists, and relies on references to extremely obscure authors like Cornelius Agrippa and references work by Merleau-Ponty (which I doubt many nonspeicalists have read) is ridiculous!
Whilst authors like Zizek, Copjec, Bruce Fink and others seem to be able to pull apart the theory from the abstruse style, I cannot.
I will perhaps return to this work, but for now it's contents remains a mystery to me.2nd Reading - I'll finish my notes for this, try to simplify and reproduce them here, and then write a full review and summary once I've collected my thoughts.
Never having read a full text by Lacan, I was surprised at how accessible I found this particular collection.
I later found out that his seminars are much more accessible than his actual books or formal writings.
For this reason: 5 stars.
One will get quite a bit from this text - enough to then make one's way through his theoretical writings and many texts that are written according to Lacanian theory (the gaze, transference, etc).
Again, I was (and remain) very pleased at how much I personally took away from this book, having been intimidated to read him in the past.
If I were able to read and understand the original French text, perhaps I would have a better impression of the work, but I highly doubt it.Like God in the film "Dogma", when Lacan speaks it too is a horrendous blast of noise that’s not worth listening to, or in this case, reading.
My intuition tells me that Lacan’s ego (yes, in the Freudian sense) would appreciate being compared to God—his "objet petit a", so to speak.As God, or Lacan, you’re not required to explain yourself to anyone and even when you try, it’s only heard as noise anyway.
(2 yıl önce okumaya başlayıp bu sebepten ertelemiştim.) Elimizdeki bu kitap Lacan'ın 1964 yılında gerçekleştirmiş olduğu seminerlerin kitaplaştırılmış hali olduğundan; spesifik olarak Lacan düşünüşü, kavramları/evreleri hakkında bir kitap okumak hevesindeyseniz bu kitap 'o kitap' değil.
(Ayna Evresi hakkında bir okuma olur umuduyla aldığımdan ve Ayna Evresinin sadece "A"sını bulabildiğimden söylemekte yarar gördüm.
Bugünkü oturumumuzun konusu: Ayna Evresi." gibi bir şey beklemiyordum...) Lacan'ın da belirttiği üzere: "Seminerlerimin amacı analist yetiştirmekti, halan de öyle."(s244) "sana/bana" fayda sağlayacak bir kitap olduğunu düşünmüyorum.
Bana kalırsa "bonus"okuma niteliğinde bir kitap yani; eğitiminiz bu yöndedir, psikanaliz ya da Lacan üzerine(...) araştırma yapıyorsunuzdur, 'hadi şu kitaplaştırılan 64 seminerine de bir göz atayım' derseniz, amacını karşılamış olur.
i find lacanianism interesting, but by now ive learned its graspable only through secondary literature......
Wie Lacan wil beginnen lezen, begint best met dit seminarie. In dit seminarie herkadert Lacan Freuds basisconcepten het onbewuste, de herhaling, de drift en de overdracht. Wat is er van aan? In deze periode, nadat Lacan is buiten-gebonjourd uit de IPA, ondervraagt hij wat psychoanalyse nu eigenlijk is en wat er misloopt met de dogmatische en pseudo religieuze benadering van de postfreudianen. Hij ondervraagt op welke manier de psychoanalyse in intiem verband staat met moderniteit, en toch niet samenvalt met de wetenschappen.
Islam y modernidad: Reflexiones blasfemas Pág.77Como afirmaba Lacan en su Seminario XI, «il n’y a de cause que de ce qui cloche», no hay más causa que la de algo que tropieza/resbala/titubea; una tesis cuyo carácter claramente paradójico se explica cuando uno toma en consideración la oposición entre causa y causalidad.
Para Lacan, no son en ningún sentido la misma cosa, puesto que una «causa», en el estricto sentido del término, es precisamente algo que interviene en aquellos puntos donde la red de causalidad (la cadena de causas y efectos) titubea, cuando hay una ruptura, un hueco, en la cadena causal.
If the unconscious is structured like a language, one might ask, what is it Lacan hasn't said--and what might this mean?I can't say that I came to The Four Fundamental Concepts of Psychoanalysis from a particularly analytical perspective.
I've heard Lacan's style of expression is an attempt to engage the unconscious.
I don't know that the unconscious can be manipulated as such: it isn't any one thing to be manipulated--at least according to Lacan; or what I understand of Lacan.
However, it's a nice idea; the sort of thing one might like to attribute to Lacan--which is why, for me, his work is so compelling.

Psychoanalysis re-reading Marathon #2: A collection of Lacan's lectures after his excommunication from the Freudian psychoanalytic school. This work requires previous knowledge of both Freud's and Lacan's earlier works and discussions, as the main idea is to elaborate on the issues Lacan raises in relation to and against Freudian psychoanalysis. Re-negotiating concepts like gaze, objet petit a, drive, language etc. structurally, Lacan's psychoanalysis is more on the ideational, philosophical side of psychoanalysis than the orthodox Freudian approach.
I found these transcripts of Lacan's lectures absolutely impenetrable. I'm not sure if it's because of the form that translation took or because of Lacan's syntax. Every sentence was actively resisting my comprehension or interpretation. As an introduction to psychoanalysis, it's a humbling and frustrating experience, but it does make you want to read a good secondary text. I'm thinking something by Fink.
Probably the most straightforward Lacan I've read, although much of it sailed over my head . . . it's interesting to see him respond to typical criticisms, that he ignores sexuality or the drives . . . although he complicates things by spending a lot of time on the "scopic" and "invocatory" drives . . .
Lacan really lays out his theory in this book. There is also this angry feeling behind it as he has just split from the IPA. I couldn't put it down and it has many parts that I will want to go back to as I continue my own pathway with analysis.
This book was probably worth reading. Lacan made me suspicious of the philosophy of analyst v analysand behind his style of writing His writings are very convenient for french philosophy of this type
Zizek'ten, sonrasinda da Zupancic'den asina oldugum bazi kavramlarin evrimini gormek icin bir kitap.
Ecrits'deki zincirleme aciklama olayini gormek mumkun degil.
Ayrica ana kavramlari kismen iceriyor.
Ustu cizili S, baklava isareti, object petit a vs.
nereden cikmis az bucuk anliyorsunuz.
Bir dirhem cekirdek icin bir ceki keciboynuzu cignemekten hoslanmayanlar icin degil.
Ne kadar samimi soru isareti, ama Sonsoz'de de, kitabin baska bolumlerinde de anlatilani anlamak uzerine baya kasvetli sozler mevcut.
Sanki Deleuze'ler gibi arada kesfedilmis guzellikler var gibi.
Surasi da var ki, Slovenya ekolu hemen hemen tum o kesfedilmis guzellikleri ele almis.
Zor kitap, referanslari eglendirici degil, not tutmak sart...
Lacan wanted to introduce a certain coherence into the major concepts on which psycho-analysis is based, the unconscious, repetition, the transference and the drive. In re-defining these four concepts he explores the question that, as he puts it, moves from "Is psycho-analysis a science?" to "What is a science that includes psycho-analysis?" He argues in particular that there is a structural affinity between psycho-analysis, construed as the science of the unconscious, and language. the science of linguistics being one of the significant discoveries of our time.
Nada fácil la tarea de hablar -porque se trata de hablar, aunque se presente bajo una forma escrita- de "los fundamentos del psicoanálisis". Un año parece no bastar, ni para iniciarlos ni menos, como sucede en este seminario, para reseñarlos de forma articulada. Supongo que como toda enseñanza lacaniana, es más y es menos de lo propuesto, pero es exacta y precisamente lo dicho, sobre lo cual habrá que trazar un circuito a recorrerse en múltiples ocasiones, de las cuales ésta es apenas la primera, la más trabajosa, la que deja interrogantes que espero poder resolver en otros recorridos.
lmao what [rating unfixed, will have to read again when I maybe can understand it] [6.0]
Para Psicología Laboral, Nota: 4
This is my second time reading this book.In his attempt to correct Freud, bring him up to date, Lacan approaches the same metaphysical abstraction as so many post-structuralists.
He approaches sort of sideways, from the abstraction of human desire as drive -- in doing so, he places us in relation to the subject, but only from the angles at which we can see it.
Ultimately though, Lacan is able to get us back to normalcy only when we approach the imaginary and symbolic regimes in conjunction with their phallic suture.
Having only been exposed to Lacan via Žižek and (the near-useless) Introducing Lacan, I figured I'd go to the source to gain a deeper knowledge of his concepts. To my disappointment, I found this book to be almost but not quite entirely incomprehensible. No sooner would a concept begin to gain clarity and momentum like a bubble rising to the surface, than it would burst in an effervescent cloud of gas - leaving me no more enlightened than when I began.
Fortunately there are a lot of people out there who want you to understand Lacan, most notably Zizek. Lacan.com helps. The chapter on The Subject Supposed to know is the clearest and quite interesting.
In some ways this is slightly more intelligible on a first read-through than the Ethics, but it's also amazingly abstruse. What little I've been able to understand about the gaze, etc. is really, really interesting. I'll definitely have to return to this when I have more time.
This book is dangerous: it can flip your mind around, which, obviously, has happened to me. He is one of the best writers I have read--an immaculate stylist, an addictive thinker--but above all, he fondles the key to the Truth.
I think I'm too dumb for Lacan.
Arrrrrgh. Lacan, you and your real and your objet petit a and your tuche.
