https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25852784-evicted
The brutal truth of poverty in America is far more devastating than any fiction ever could be. In evicted, Matthew Desmond brings rigorous sociological research and ethnography to Milwaukee's inner city. This book is painful and necessary and eye opening. I am ashamed of how little I knew about poverty and eviction. This book is fucking depressing and hopeless and excellent. We have got to do better. Also the segregation! And racist ass Ned who made his biracial stepdaughters say "white power" while their mom hoped it wouldn't scar them. What???
"Evicted: Poverty and Profit in the American City" is probably the most important book that I have ever read!!!
These stories are so unbelievable that they read like fiction.
In all fairness, this is a tough book for a narrator to tackle and when he was telling the story and not doing the individual voices he did a great job.
Although there is hope for him, I'm not giving spoilers so you are going to have to read the book to find out what happens to him.
Please read this book and tell your friends about it.
The trailer park Desmond lives in shows a little what a group of addicts living together must be like, how one of the residents goes door to door looking for a fix and knows he'll find it.Issue four, the last complex one: mental illness.
He--like landlords in the book--argued he was providing housing for people too poor to rent elsewhere, unable to get housing due to criminal history or prior evictions latest story.
(I continue to think this book says oodles more than Hillbilly Elegy: A Memoir of a Family and Culture in Crisis about poverty, class, and the American Dream.) I try to remember to sing this last stanza of Pretty Boy Floyd, the song by Woody Guthrie, the week we work on poverty in Introductory Sociology:Yes, as through this world I've wanderedI've seen lots of funny men;Some will rob you with a six-gun,And some with a fountain pen.And as through your life you travel,Yes, as through your life you roam,You won't never see an outlawDrive a family from their home.Often this shocks students to consider the inhumane way we regularly treat each other, and that the "it's just business" attitude can drive many families into homelessness and shelter living.
Within the pages of Eviction, Desmond paints a clandestine portrait of the precarious lives of those living at and below the poverty line in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, during the time of his research.
Vignette after vignette portrayed the mental and emotional anguish that living at the poverty line heaps on it dwellers so that the only reprieve came in the form of spirited dialogue and intimate conversations between those he chronicled and their family and friends and from the research that clarified the stats behind their suffering, which was interspersed throughout.
“When Sheriff John walked into a house and saw mattresses on the floor, grease on the ceiling, cockroaches on the wall, and clothes, hair extensions, and toys scattered about, he didn’t double-check.
My mind was split at times on the horrible problem “Evicted” addresses......as it’s natural to wish there ‘was’ the right solution....but is there?Landlords need to pay their bills —but this book shows the MASSIVE CRISIS that an eviction can cause a person who is already living under the poverty line.Very disturbing problem this book addresses ——it latches on to all my anger-frustrating- and powerless-feeling brain cells.
Whatever our way out of this mess, one thing is certain. This degree of inequality, this withdrawal of opportunity, this cold denial of basic needs, this endorsement of pointless suffering-by no American value is this situation justified. No moral code or ethical principle, no piece of scripture or holy teaching, can be summoned to defend what we have allowed our country to become. I begin this review with what is essentially the end of this book. There is another piece after this that will hav
It was brilliant and in my opinion, the most important piece of this book, which in itself is a tremendous feat of research, dedication, drive, exploration and human kindness.
I still do actually, not so much to discuss but more to just lay eyes on such a decent human being, to tell him that the world needs more people like him to educate, to challenge what is and to help this broken world.This book deserves a far better review than what I have written here.
As I consider what else to write, please get this book with its haunting cover and its important message.
Millions of Americans are evicted every year because they can't make rent.Matthew Desmond, who is a sociology professor at Harvard, spent time living among the families and following their routines.
Evicted reminded me of two other great books about class and poverty: Nickel and Dimed by Barbara Ehrereich, in which she sees how challenging it is to work and survive on minimum wages; and Behind the Beautiful Forevers by Katherine Boo, which follows poor families in a slum in Mumbai.
Poor black women were locked out.""It was next to impossible for people to survive deep poverty on their own.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/This book? This book was . . . .  Per usual when I read a good hardcover, (1) I failed to watch my children play in their baseball games and instead kept my tunnel vision pointed directly at the book and (2) the flagging of the pages happened which made all of the parents around me give me the “that b*&^% be cray” look . . . .  Buuuuuuuuuuuut as also per usual, I’m not really going to quote anything that I post-it noted. After read
Per usual when I read a good hardcover, (1) I failed to watch my children play in their baseball games and instead kept my tunnel vision pointed directly at the book and (2) the flagging of the pages happened which made all of the parents around me give me the “that b*&^% be cray” look .
You want to side with the landlord who is getting screwed over by tenants who don’t pay the rent, but manage to buy dope, smokes and booze – but at the same time you want to kick her ass for charging people to live in uninhabitable conditions (literally, a house she was charging $600+ for was CONDEMNED).
This is definitely not Good Times I didn't realize until I read the afterward that the author of this book put himself right into the middle of the people he portrays lives. He gave them rides to look for houses, he even loaned them small amounts of money at times. He admits that he misses living in the trailer park among them. This book. I hope more people get it and read it. I've been on a "smart book" kick lately and I've starred them all pretty highly but this one is just amazing. Desmond kn
I didn't realize until I read the afterward that the author of this book put himself right into the middle of the people he portrays lives.
You can tell he puts his whole heart into telling these stories.Now the stories..they are real people: You have to keep reminding yourself of that as you read this book because no one is perfect, they all mess up and the writing is so good that you feel like you are just reading a really good work of fiction.Set in Milwaukee, he tells the stories of families.Lamar, who has no legs.
They feel like the people they try to help just want to take and take.

Review: 5* of five***2018 UPDATE***My latest blogged review to crest 1,000 views!
Yay me!I voted for this book in the 2016 Goodreads Choice Awards.
Because I'm a radical who wants to re-rig the system and change the course of the Ship of State 180 degrees.
This economic exploitation is crystallized in the slum.” Exploitation.
Now, there’s a word that has been scrubbed out of the poverty debate.--and there it is, simply and baldly put: The poor are exploited mercilessly by every single sector of capitalist society.“If poverty persists in America, it is not for lack of resources.”--the author just made, in one short sentence, the only real and relevant case for Universal Basic Income.
No moral code or ethical principle, no piece of scripture or holy teaching, can be summoned to defend what we have allowed our country to become.Evicted is a study of poverty and the problems of rent payments in the city of Milwaukee.
As rents increase where property values stagnate or decline, the poorest have to spend 70-90% of their income on housing.
With such a small margin of income, a single crisis - illness, car crash, emergency repairs - can send the residents into eviction.
Once that happens, it becomes exponentially harder to get housing anywhere else.
The first part of this Pulitzer Prize-winning book brings together a handful of characters (landlords and tenants) in a poor Milwaukee neighborhood and tells their stories - what brought them to where they are, what keeps them stuck in poverty, what options (if any) they have.
The next part of the book was fascinating - called "About This Project," the author reveals that he implanted himself in this Milwaukee neighborhood and lived amongst his landlords and tenants for a year to gather their stories and study their plight.
They work with imperfect tools and face a constantly renewing mountain to climb starting from a new lower low with each instance of rent non-payment and subsequent eviction.Addiction doesn’t appear to be the most common cause of eviction, at least among the people whose stories Desmond shares with us, though it does figure in the lives of many families he describes.
Desmond will argue that wild overspending on inappropriate items is a result of poverty, not a cause.Hard as it is for us to admit, exploitation by landlords appears to contribute hugely to reasons low-income tenants cannot be free from the cycle of eviction.
In Evicted, Matthew Desmond shares the experiences of eight families as they try to make ends meet in the most run-down neighborhoods of Milwaukee.
And this would be interesting enough, but, amazingly, Desmond ALSO shares the experiences of two landlords who manage some of the properties where these families live.
But nearly all of them have a landlord.” That’s a good dang point.When I finished this book, I knew I had learned a lot about this important issue–but, more important than that, I felt like I had connected to this Big Issue on a very personal level.
The first 80 percent of the book follows in detail the experiences of eight low-income families (including both black and white) in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
As a result, the number of households paying more than 30 percent of their income for shelter rose to a record 21.3 million—about one in six nationwide.
(view spoiler)[ The government says that rent and utilities are affordable if they consume no more than 30 percent of the household's income.
The year after eviction, families experience 20 percent higher levels of material hardships than similar families who were not evicted.The availability of affordable rental units has not kept pace with the rise in demand.
(Side note: I appreciate that Desmond points out why people in abject poverty will sometimes engage in spending habits that drive outsiders insane, which is also something that I’ve seen many, many, many times in my own life: if you so rarely have an extra $100 lying around that its occasional presence is notable, you don’t expect that you’ll ever be able to save enough to amount to anything so you figure why not spend it on something that it going to make things just a little brighter, even for the length on a lobster dinner?
Along the way he develops relationships with people struggling to stay in their housing, with landlords who are participating in typical practices, with social workers and cops and others in the system in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.He uses Milwaukee as an example of a large city that isn't as huge as New York, Chicago, or Detroit, to capture more of the typical experience of someone facing eviction.
Mass resistance was possible only when people believed they had the collective capacity to change things.
A cataclysmic expose of the affordable housing crisis and grinding poverty in the United States.In the author's own words-I wanted to try and write a book about poverty that didn't focus exclusively on poor people or poor places.
This sent me searching for a process that bound poor and rich people together in mutual dependence and struggle.
He follows them to housing court, AA meetings, homeless shelters, through the mill of multiple evictions and the never-ending search for a place to call home.
I didn't want to leave them at the end of the book.
These people became not just a mixed jumble of individuals but clear identities each with their own background, concerns and personal endeavors.
The fog cleared, and I could relate to them.
I had been seriously considering dumping the book.
Don’t do that, be patient, the fog does clear.The book gets you into the lives of real people and this is of great value.
It draws conclusions and gives guidelines for changes that need to be made.
The book does not merely draw a problem.
It is easy to follow, but his pacing tells the reader how we are to view the facts.
The book recognizes these families' humanity by showing their remarkable resilience and kindness as well as their mistakes.
Matthew Desmond ends the book by revealing the vast reporting and research he put into Evicted, as well as by suggesting effective and tangible strategies to combat poverty and income inequality within the United States.I would recommend this book to everyone.
I appreciate Desmond for keeping the spotlight on these families, for documenting how social injustice leads to individual suffering, and for publishing such an important book on an under-discussed topic.
Please consider learning more, volunteering, and/or donating by checking out this website Desmond provides himself at the end of Evicted: http://justshelter.org/.
I have been wanting to read this book forever since this book talks about the truth with eviction in Milwaukee, Wissconsin- an area that I visit often: just last weekend...The author, Matthew Desmond, takes us to some of the poorest neighborhoods of Milwaukee and shares the stories of eight families.
One of the families is Arleen's.
Another person story he shares is Scott's.
All are spending almost everything they have on rent, and all have fallen behind.These stories are heartbreaking and true...
I suggest this book to everyone so they can learn about the unacknowledged problem of evictions and poverty.
Unlike other academic books I've read on the subject, Desmond paints an intimate portrait of daily toils, constant crisis-mode, domestic violence, addiction, human dignity, familial and communal bonds, and other facets of poverty (in relation to evictions, homelessness, sub-standard housing).
By presenting a human-focused perspective on poverty, Desmond's work adds depth to prior structural analyses, but more importantly, challenges current arguments that demonize the poor (i.e.
"the poor are lazy" - not a statement I would have ever agreed with, but sadly, a common trope in current US political discourse).Chapters alternate between the trailer park and project housing, and include voices of both landlords and tenants, weaving a complex tapestry that is not limited by preconceptions (i.e.
This book won the Pulitzer, and the National Book Critics Circle Award, and I can absolutely see why.
Author Matthew Desmond spent months living in a trailer park and then an inner-city rooming house in Milwaukee, getting to know the renters and their landlords and observing firsthand what the housing crisis looks like.
This book frequently infuriated me, but it also raised in me a strong sense of compassion for people who are struggling and a desire to look for opportunities to help and advocate for fairer housing policies.
It’s an important book.-Teresa Prestonfrom The Best Books We Read In May 2017: https://bookriot.com/2017/06/02/riot-...
From homeless shelters to other dilapidated hovels or trailor parks where the landlord refuses to put money into repairs because tenants are not paying the rent, these people, highest percentage of them black women with children, are constantly struggling as they are thrown out on the streets.In order to write this book, the author immersed himself into the life of poverty as a tenant in Milwaukee where he studies the trends eviction play in our society.
This book by Harvard sociologist Matthew Desmond , who moved into a low income trailer park in Milwaukee to live among those he would later write about, has won a Pulitzer Prize along with dozens of other awards.
It's rare that a non-fiction book reads like a novel but Desmond does a terrific job here of keeping it readable though it's plenty real.
I had to read the statistics a few times to even fathom such high numbers.
The book should be read by everyone so we can be alerted to how broken the current welfare system is and how to some degree it effects us all.
An eye-opening and powerful book about shockingly common practice of eviction in American cities.
Harvard sociologist Matthew Desmond spent months living in several different neighborhoods in Milwaukee's inner-city.
This book focuses on a handful of people -- some white, some black, some single parents, some married with kids, some single -- who were all evicted during Desmond's time in the city.
Desmond gives readers an extraordinarily balanced, though bleak, view of the situations.
In that messy "in-between" the reader will need to come to his or her own conclusions about what is just and what is unacceptable.
This is what poor looks like in America and it’s not a pretty picture.
There’s no question we have a flawed system, and the cycle continues with no way out for those who are caught up in poverty and substandard living conditions.
No one escapes poverty alone.
The author, who is a sociologist, not only did research for this book, he actually lived among them.
He didn’t just interview them, he immersed himself in their lives.
I didn’t learn this until the epilogue and I wish I had known that beforehand.
Evictions tend to multiply like the dust bunnies under the bed: once you have one, it's hard to avoid more in the future.Author Matthew Desmond follows the plight of eight renting families and two landlords as they try to navigate through the Milwaukee housing jungle.
His writing is as compelling as the best work of fiction, and once you pick up Evicted, it's hard to put it back down.
