https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118142.Slowly_Down_the_Ganges
In fact, if you find ineptness and poor timing rather laughable, Slowly down the Ganges starts out rather hilariously and gives new meaning to the word slow.A lot of the book is taken up with the Newbys search for a boat.
Their nick of time rendevous in Calcutta is rather anticlimactic and the bewidering slew of detail regarding the last stage of their journey seems tacked on.At the end of the day, before I put the book back on the shelf, I feel rather fond, stirred but not rapturous.
I don't have a Did Not Finish shelf, as I usually don't review, rate, or otherwise note those. However, having found some of Newby's other work hilarious, I was almost amazed at how I had to talk myself into picking this one up each time. Tired of waiting for the interesting or really funny bits that never seemed to materialize.
i love this book, it would be one of the reasons that i went to india, except that i read it after i went to india, but things could have easily happened the other way around.
Erudite, well-informed, compassionate, cranky and eccentric travel writing.The first half of the book goes along brilliantly.
Having recently visited some of the places mentioned in this part of the book, I found the description truthful (and funny).But I found the second half somewhat plodding.
It is full of maritime descriptions which were not of much interest to me.I found Newby's descriptions of his journey honest and hilarious (in an understated British way).
Throughout the week and a half I was reading this book, I found myself opening up Google Earth and slowly navigating down the Ganges (virtually) reading up on the places that the writer describes.
Enjoyed this at first.
Newby can be very funny while never being stupid.
I also appreciated the snapshot of India pre-globalization and not too long after partition.
But too much of it reads almost like a list of what he saw.
For a journey that has a very defined start and end, it was absent any meaningful narrative structure.
Perhaps that's his style, but by book's end I was long done.That said, far be it from me to too heavily criticize anyone who undertakes a long trip like this.
I'm grateful he went and will consider one of his better-liked books in the future.
Re-read it last night. If you like bone dry british humor and travel writing Eric Newby is your guy.
During the course of the journey there are a number of conversations which if you were taking at face value would appear to end with neither party really understanding the other, but this doesn't stop the author painting his own conclusion, usually that he was being treated rudely or was trying to have the wool pulled over his eyes.
There are a number of stories along the journey, stories of Newby's time with the British army in India.
His matter-of-fact nature avoids all the usual travel writing cliches about Asia - neither doing a comic turn about the difficulties posed by food poisoning and public transport, dabbing a metaphorical hanky to the eye over the poverty and desperation, nor yuckily gushing over the *aaaaammaaaaaazing* spirituality of it all.
Instead Newby authentically captures the experience of being a westerner in Asia, neither straining to exaggerate incidents for tragedy or comic effect, or underplaying their inconvenience, and certainly not cobbling together any trite stories of spiritual-whatchamacallit.
Other places, they had to go by train because there were no boats or there was no riverine navigation possible.What surprised me most about this book is that the author traveled the whole two-odd months with his wife, with her threatening to leave him at several points of extreme discomfort.
Based on newspaper stories written after Newby's book, it seems that, far from being potable, the Ganges is dangerously polluted and that the Indian government is concerned.
It is possible that the pollution has grown by stages since the book was first published in 1966.
Who continues to rent a boat, load it up and depart, only to be required to move rocks for the first 3 days in order to form a channel to allow the boat to be encouraged downstream a little.For a river expedition, Newby does a reasonable amount of travel on buses and trains, but does manage some boat time in this book.Readable, (although the version I have contains painfully small font), and hilarious in parts, although in Newby's understated way.
The lack of background explanation for most of the places Newby visited made this a not-very-enlightening (no pun intended) book , and certainly not a very good introduction to India.
While I understand this book was written more than 50 years ago and times have changed, I was somewhat put off by Newby's almost complete disregard for his wife (who accompanied him on the trip) except as a cook and an occasional nuisance when she threatens to leave.
I was disappointed that the writing was not as interesting as I would guess the journey was. Not enough about the on-the-water part of the journey. Not enough about the end of the journey - seemed like the author lost interest in his own story long before he reached Calcutta.
This is a very human narrative, as there is very little high adventure or exotic experience to be witnessed, but the manner the author portrays the rather mundane aspects of river travel and cultural India is such that a reader is compelled to at least be humored a bit by aspects of mankind that transcend borders and cultures.
Overall an enjoyable read, fit for slow consumption and contemplation.4/5 stars pros: humor, lighthearted, offers personal perspective on lesser known Indian locations cons: requires some experience of India to appreciate book, pacing is slow at times
I suppose I should of judged the book by its title a little better. 'Slowly' is definitely guaranteed here. The 'Ganges' excited me but unfortunately the book did not. Nothing really happens in the story, not really - it's just Newby and his wife heading downstream in a boat with a few trials & tribulations kicked in, but nothing out of the ordinary. The book was readable and occasionally interesting, but not enough. Perhaps I just don't bode well with this author, I know his books are generally well received. Alas, not for me.
Fascinating travel tale down the Ganges. This book is 50+ years old but has aged well. Newby’s observations of Hindu rituals and mythologies are hilariously described. Kudos to his wife for staying through on this trip.
When I read this in my late teens I ploughed through but found it very tedious. I don't know whether I'd enjoy it more now or not. Perhaps the fact that memories of it have stuck with me says something good about it.
See review for A short walk. Brilliant, love everything he has written.
In Slowly down the Ganges, Newby's account of his 1963 journey from Hardwar to the Bay of Bengal, the touches of humor that come through are too often labored or muted by the author's frustration in dealing with a culture so different from his own.
Slowly down the Ganges is a book written by a professional traveler who has learned to fill out his three-hundred pages with protracted historical summations, turgid descriptions of sunsets, water fowl and misty horizons, and long litanies of temples, shrines, and shipwrecks.
At that point the slowness got to me and I flicked to the back to make sure they did get home.
He was lucky he was so placid and that his wife didn't kill him half way round for getting her to go on a trip like this.
It is all very stiff upper lip stuff but he does appear to have some affinity with the natives in that he dislikes the fawning attitude some of the natives show towards them but the majority he meets with the odd exception appear to be lazy and shifty in all sorts of ways.
I think basically they were lucky to get home alive!!!
I read Eric Newby's "A Short Walk in the Hindu Kush" which was a magnificent book about a trip to the western Himalayas which are now the home of the Taliban in Afganistan.
This book combined humor, an exotic time and place and a look at a culture which has not changed in thousands of years.
With this in mind I searched out this book which covered a trip in 1964 down the Ganges River with his wife beginning in the foothills of the Himalyas and ending in Calcutta and the Bay of Bengal.
This trip, however, had little humor, little adventure, much hardship and a monumental look at the Hindu culture.
This book chronicles a trip down the Ganges in the mid 1960's.
And, as Newby's trip was slow, this book is slow.
While the author makes a lot of the sights and sounds and smells, he does it in a way that feels like a complaint, not a description of wonder.
Maybe it is his British heratige that clouds his perspective because I feel he has a different attitude in his book "A small place in Italy." Anyway, I loaned the book to a person who is embarking on a cruise down the Ganges, one who has never been to India before.
Supposedly a tale of how he and his wife traveled down the Ganges in a variety of boats.
More like how he and his wife traveled along the basic course of the Ganges in a variety of buses and trains.
A very patchily written book, at times it would be fascinating - whether describing ancient history, the author's own reminisces, or the events of the voyage (which were also at times hilarious) - and at times it would just be page after page of pure description of ruined forts or the banks of the Ganges (cliffs, forest, silt, sandbars, ho hum).
This is an account of the author's journey (accompanied by his long-suffering but also adventurous wife) down the Ganges in 1963, in a series of small boats.
Newby's a humorist, and one of his favorite tropes is likening something he sees to a pedestrian English sight like a hesitant bather on a pier, or "a party of revelers pausing to wonder where to go next", or whatever.
I didn't expect much deep insight from this account of travelers passing by people and societies they could barely communicate with, and indeed it's more amusing than anything, but I was interested in Newby's recollections of being posted there with the British Army just before independence.

For richness of local colour, this may be one of Newby's best works. One of the more engaging aspects of Newby's stories is that he seems intent on tackling situations that require more stamina and willingness to endure discomfort than any of us, his readers would be willing to accept personally. So his books offer vicarious pleasure for the armchair traveler, while enriching our understanding of parts of the world we may never reach. And of course we can also laugh about those "damn fools and Englishmen who go out in the noonday sun".
Eric Newby's journey down the Ganges is a little weird. Although I myself have travelled quite a bit, I am still not able to find the real reasons for coming to a alien country and trying to sail down a cruel river. That too with no plans whatsoever, sounds quite stupid. But as you read the book, his ignorance seems quite charming, because in the great unknown lies the romance of adventure and the comedy of tragedy. This book brings that out quite well. A typical Brit travelogue comical, straight forward with a dash of Victorian spirit for danger.
Newby remains one of my favourite travel writers. He's the funny and somewhat goofy Englishman abroad and each of his books are a joy to read. Of course, they were also written decades ago and many of the places he visits and writes about have changed significantly. Many of them have become no-go zones.
Poor Wanda.
I thought this book was an interesting read, burst out laughing a few times at the recurrent mishaps and felt sorry for his wife Wanda all the way through. I imagined reading about a river would be boring but his descriptions were actually quite beautiful.
gives a clear picture of how India and ganges have changed over the years over its course.. the last chapter about their passage through hoogly was a bit too technical , but all in all, very informative .would love to read more of Eric's travel fantacies. He is funny.
