https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/627984.Stone_Cold
Yes!
He's dead!
Finally.
This book started well, picked up pace, and ended breathlessly.
I am so glad to have read this book in the state of mind that I did.
Sometimes a good book is wasted because of the wrong disposition of the reader, but I devoured Stone Cold (vague title, by the way) like it was my last book.
The best aspects of this book are spoiler laden.
Let me just say that when Baldacci kills off characters he makes them count.
I'm beginning to think that this author is totally compatible with the way my mind works.
What a book!
There isn't a cliche in the world that David Baldacci doesn't hit in this book. Leaden prose, two-dimensional characters, the standard retired-super-soldier-with-secret-past plot.... this is Lee Child for the silver set, so greyishly familiar and just downright stupid that it might be the first novel to pass the Turing Test, it's so hard to believe it was written by a human author and didn't, somehow, write itself from a few choice prompts. Don't bother.
Stone Cold kept me on my toes. I had no idea what was going to happen next!As with The Collectors two parallel storylines are being described. The first one involves Annabelle Conroy. Annabelle is the con artist who robbed Jerry Bagger of forty million dollars from his casino as a revenge for killing her mother decades ago (book 2). She hates Jerry and she wishes she had done more damage to him but she also wants to stay alive. Not long after, Annabelle learns that her cover has been blown and
Annabelle is the con artist who robbed Jerry Bagger of forty million dollars from his casino as a revenge for killing her mother decades ago (book 2).
It's up to the Camel Club to help Annabelle survive.
The second person is Alex Ford, the secret service agent who was part of the first book.
The second storyline involves Oliver Stone who is really an ex-military killing machine.
Carter Gray and Roger Simpson would like nothing better than to have John Carr dead - for real this time.
I felt sad for Oliver, he has lost everything except for his friends from the Camel Club.
Carter Gray & Roger Simpson are two of the most self-serving people who should not be in leadership positions but they are.
They've sacrificed others for their own benefit as well as taken lives.....now they're on the receiving end of their own devious plots.
As usual, Carter Gray sacrifices John Carr aka Olver Stone.
The price for that deception is something neither Roger or Carter can afford.This story was written to include simplistic descriptions of the settings, political plots and insight into the devious minds of politicians and people in powerful positions.
A true page turner with a very emotional ending.
The ending of this story was unavoidable but decent enough.Story two is in essence a sequel to the story in book one when Gray & Stone once again cross paths and swords simply because an assassin has targeted Stone's old working collegues and all goes well untill he targets Gray and finds himself in a place he would rather not be.
Stone also lands in this particular place and finds that while he might be oldish he is still very good at what he used to be, namely a very skilled operator or assassin.Easily the best of the first three Camel Club books, while the Annabelle storyline is satisfactory, the story line of Oliver Stone getting confronted by his past life and former boss is quite exciting and explosive.
Camel Club, book 3Annabelle Conroy is again joining Oliver Stone and the Camel Club's group of mismatched characters in this suspenseful and unforgettable novel of revenge, conspiracy and murder.The previous novel "The Collector" (a must read) laid the background for this novel, in it Annabelle Conroy pulled a con on Casino king Jerry Bagger and she is now hunted by him and needs all the resources the Camel Club can provide to protect her.While protecting Annabelle, the group faces a new opponent, one by one, retired CIA agents involved in Stone's former unit are being picked off by a seemingly ruthless assassin.
This is the first book by David Baldacci that I've read, and since it was the third installment in the Camel Club series and I haven't read the previous two books I thought I'd be lost with this one. But no, it was very straightforward, and right up my alley, and since reading this book I've become a big David Baldacci fan.
But as Stone and the Camel Club circle the wagons to protect Annabelle, a new opponent, who makes Bagger's menace pale by comparison, suddenly arises.One by one, men from Stone's shadowy past are turning up dead.
And with Finn, Stone may well have met his match.As Annabelle and the Camel Club fight for their lives, the twists and turns whipsaw, leading to a finale that is as explosive as it is shattering.
And when buried secrets are at last violently resurrected, the members of the Camel Club left standing will be changed forever.
First read: This is Book 3 of the Camel Club Series.
Great book, unfortunately I've gone in to reading the third camel club book without knowing about 1 & 2, but would definitely like to know more of the history of Oliver Stone/John Carr so will be back-ordering from the library.Second Read: The multi-plot action keeps you engrossed and although the outcome is somewhat predictable, getting there is very fast paced.
Annabelle Conroy, an honorable member of the Camel Club, is also the greatest con artist of her generation.
I really liked this book.
Liked it a lot the second time too.
Another page turner in the style my friend Laura calls Scooby Doo stories.
There are miraculous resolutions brought on by incredible coincidences that bring the story to an end.
Mind you, there were a few miraculous incidents along the way as the story developed as well.
The central assumption of this book is that an American agent and his Russian lover were able to penetrate the Kremlin and poison Andropov -- and Chernenko and escape.
So this book is for beach reading and is just a literary Scooby snack.
A quick read that rates high on the entertainment scale but stretches the credulity of even regular fans of “secret government” paranoia. An old guy with all of the physical strength of a twenty year old but the experience of decades, a mind like a computer and the structural character of an ancient oak who has actually learned something from his past mistakes. Hmm..I like the concept but…nah, I’ll stick with superman or 007.
We also have a new plot line involving the one-after-another deaths of people from Oliver Stone’s shadowy past, which seems likely to catch up to Stone as well at some point.
This time around we get a lot more information about Stone’s history and we get to see a side of him that he has kept hidden for many years.As usual, David Baldacci does an excellent job of creating entertaining thriller fiction.
His plots are not always completely original and this time around he seems to include more of the standard thriller tropes than usual.
In November, when I broke out with Shingles for the second time in my life, my doctor was concerned, but four months later when it happens again; I ended up sitting in her office nearly an entire day; thank heaven, I brought a book!I love David Baldacci!
These four gents can easily be considered ‘conspiracy theorists,’ but their backgrounds, mainly unknown to the public, make the reader realize that all they want is ‘THE TRUTH!’ Of course, as the series progresses a couple of honorary members are added; first a secret service employee and second a con woman.This time the club is fighting two bad guys; one who is killing old assassins of the U.S. whose identities have been buried by the CIA and the man that Annabelle Conroy conned for $40 million.
El mejor libro de la saga del Camel Club. Sumamente adictivo y está lleno de acción. En este los secretos más oscuros de Oliver Stone se revelan, poniendo en peligro a las personas más queridas del exagente.Como dice en la contratapa de la novela:  Las vidas de los sobrevivientes de esta historia cambiarán para siempre.
The third in the Camel Club series and it doesn’t disappoint. There are the expected Baldacci cliches, tension and espionage but it is also a little different in the concurrency of storylines. The intrigue surrounding Oliver Stone grows when he is forced into a confrontational situation with his ex-boss. Annabelle brings a definite ‘Ocean’s Eleven’ element to the 3# instalment. There are some gaps (and gaffes) but a solid, intriguing, page-turning thriller which ends with the need to read instalment 4!
Read the review of the entire Camel Club series at my my blogStone Cold is an excellent entry in the Camel Club universe.
It ties up the loose ends from The Collector while having a strong main story line independent of those ends.
The previous entry, The Collectors, is a so so book and I was afraid that the series had taken a nose dive.
Stone Cold redeems the series and rekindled my interest in the Camel Club.
It has an ending that I really did not expect and it set up the next book in the series.Overall, Stone Cold is a satisfying read.
I wasn’t really enthousiastic about this novel, though I can understand people like it.It fel like watching a rather flat tv movie, I can’t say it was horrible... However I’ve allready almost forgotten what it was about.
In this third installment of the Camel Club series, we begin to get more of Oliver Stone's history.
Someone is killing Oliver's teammates from his CIA days.
Oliver needs to find out who and why before they come after him.
If that wasn't enough to keep Oliver and his Camel Club buddies busy, Annabelle Conroy is back in town with Jerry Bagger hot on her heels.I listened to this on audiobook and really enjoyed the story.
The story was interesting, fast-paced, and kept the listener wondering.
An added bonus was that the narrator, Ron McLarty did an amazing job with the characters.Rating: 4 Stars
I really enjoyed this third book in the Camel Club series!
His character Harry Finn reminds me a lot of John Puller (a character whom I LOVE) from Baldacci's Puller series and the way his love for his family is portrayed along with the "other" things he's a part of really walk that line between loving his character and yet hating what he has to do.
As always, the Camel Club is awesome!
I loved the fast-paced action, interwoven plots, and the fact that Baldacci's characters are predictable in an unpredictable way.
Looking forward to the next book in this series!---This was an audiobook read for me
Third part of Camel Club series and so much better and fast paced. This one again sees two parallel stories where one guy is killing people and on the other hand our camel club is going through life adjusting after the events of the last book. This was fast quick fun but what a sad end to a wonderful story (No Spoilers from my side).
David Baldacci will most likely get a 5 star rating from me each and every time. I absolutely love his stories...I get so wrapped up in the characters! Especially the Camel Club bunch. *Spoiler alert* This could very well be the last of the Camel Club books. I am bummed :( But as usual, I had trouble putting it down at all!!! So good!!!
Excellent book! The short chapters keeps your saying just one more before lights out - 10 chapters later you are still reading. I am going back to read the first book in the series before I read the last two. Great writer, keeps reader locked into the story and the characters.
This is my favourite Camel Club book, action packed, a page turner from start to finish. Would recommend.
Nathan Clement Summer reading assessment 9-14-17 The fiction book, Stone Cold by David Baldacci was amazing!
I really liked this book because instead of a lot of dialogue, there was a lot of descriptions of the characters, the characters backgrounds, actions, and events throughout the book.
A positive aspect of this book was the relationships all of the Camel Club members had, the way they always backed each other up no matter the situation.
If you like lots of action and very descriptive words, than this book is for you.
At the end of the book I started to look for some more books by the author, David Baldacci.
The Camel Club is at it again with nonstop action and political intrigue. Oliver Stone and the rest of the Camel Club try to keep tabs on politicians and keep them straight. Annabelle Conroy is a con artist to the extreme. She is running from a casino owner after running a con on him. Oliver and Annabelle team up to try to stop the men who ordered Oliver's wife murdered.
"The two men sat on a bench near the statue of a Polish general whom history remembered as a sound ally of the Americans in their war for independence. He was also a man, it was probably safe to say, hardly any American alive today would either know or care about."This text gave this book one more star from me.
A typical David Baldacci read. I love it though.
What can I say it's a David Baldacci novel. Good book
I shouldn't have read this out of order! I will go back and read book 2.
This was a book that would appeal to lovers of Lee Child, Vince Flynn, Matt Hilton etc. Reasonable read for lovers of this type of book but sadly not for me. But other readers may enjoy .
