https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10591849-the-demon-lover
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b007517gDescription: Mrs Drover returns to her old London house after the Blitz to find a letter waiting. Stars Maggie Steed and Jenny Howe.
From BBC radio 4 Extra:Mrs Drover returns to her old London house after the Blitz to find a letter waiting. Stars Maggie Steed and Jenny Howe.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b007517g
Descubriendo a Elizabeth Bowen...Inquietante, fantasmagórica y gótica. Muy buen relato.
But I had a feeling it wasn't because my teacher always tells me how a lot of times In literature a tittle is just a play-on-words because unless you read this you wouldn't be able to guess the story's basis.
Me personally I had to read this story over like 20 times and I'm not over exaggerating either!
And I also enjoyed how the author put pieces of her life in the story to make it stronger.
Overall I really liked this story and I might just read some of Elizabeth's other pieces of literature for fun.
struggling with these stories - my own prejudices, I think - so middle class, set in abandoned country houses or bombed out London mansions, full of convoluted sentences. However the stories are also full of light and beauty and some wonderful descriptions.. I will persevere... I enjoyed this on the whole, despite the struggle. Some superb touches and insights into character. More later...
Such a joy to analyze!
Bowen creates a foreboding atmosphere like a champ and the story can be enjoyed both in a literal and metaphorical way. Neatly crafted and chilling.
The ghosts here are of the more nuanced variety, memories and patterns of behavior that haunt the characters as they try to live something like normal lives in England during World War II.
These stories don't include any of the war itself, just those lives lived on the periphery of the bloodshed, in a kind of suspended time between air raids.
How does one live in a world like this?In the postscript, Bowen suggests that these stories could in future make up a kind of emotional history of the war.
I believe that they do indeed constitute this kind of history, and I expect that the stories' ghosts will continue to haunt me.
classic wartime horror. read an online posting of the story then listened to a great readong of it on YouTube. takes less than 20 minutes to read.
I think i expected more!🤔
I loved this quick read. It completely captured the emotions of the moment, the time, and the drama at hand.
well that ending was definitely not what i expected!! i loved it
meh....
Decent, made quite an impression in very little time.
‘The Demon Lover’ is a very short story, suitable for a small gap of time you want to fill or procrastinate in.
In the beginning, you think you know where this is going, afterwards you start guessing just for the fun of it, but then, the end leaves you blinking perplexedly and stranded on a beach of confusion and amazement, no matter what you had been thinking before.I have yet to read more of Bowen, but this was certainly a good start.
The reason I didn’t give it more stars is simply that it was too short to make a great impact.
I felt I could relate to this story, which is why I found it so chilling. When in a house alone, I feel cautious and scared of the empty rooms, as if something is about to make its way out of the floors or walls and get me. I'm also old enough to know now that that wouldn't happen. At least if it did, I'd have the outside world and the safety of strangers, right..?
I read it in my English 4 class. It was ambiguous and I liked it because we did an assignment where we write a different essay and give what we wrote to another classmate and they would continue the story. It was fun. I would give it a 4.5/5.
Supposedly Shirley Jackson's inspiration for The Daemon Lover. James Harris of the cloven foot. Excellent. In Jackson's he leaves. In Bowen's, he returns. Both are horrifying. The 5 stars is for the story itself. As I have read it in her Collected Works, I would give the CollectedWorks 4 stars.
This short story was nice. It was very ominous. I recommend this for those who enjoy classic short stories.
Well... an interesting story, even though the end leaves many questions to the reader as long as it is open ended and lets you draw your own conclusions!!!
I liked it.Reminded me of Hitchcock's movies. But there's more to it than just a story.
This short story was very odd. I enjoyed it and read it very quickly but I was left very confused by the ending. I wasn't sure what had happened, or why.
Esto es a lo que yo llamo un buen relato corto...
I read this in class. It was very interesting and intriguing with a very abrupt ending.
3.5/5The ending was a bit too predictable to me.
Short story I read for class. I didn't really like it.
A quick but too short read.
