https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/281419.Singing_in_the_Shrouds
I felt almost giddy to be reading Marsh again, and was having such fun with her style and her humor and all the good stuff that comes with a victims-confined-on-a-cruise murder; but the last quarter of the book was so oppressively heavy with the various bigotries of the time (and not in a fun, "OMG how offensive!" way) that I'm feeling a little deflated here at the end.A bit of the good stuff:"Mrs. Dillington-Blick, who might have been thought to be already in full flower, awarded herself a sort of bonus in effulgence.
A very good "contained" mystery as Roderick Alleyn finds a serial killer among the passengers on a ship bound for an African cruise.
Insignificant buildings, being simplified, became dramatic.Premise/plot: Singing in the Shrouds is the twentieth novel in Ngaio Marsh's Inspector Alleyn mystery series.
It is believed that the murderer is a passenger on the ship.
Inspector Alleyn joins the ship--in disguise--the next day.
Can Alleyn discover the murderer among the passengers without being discovered himself?My thoughts: I am loving Ngaio Marsh.
I can't believe it's taken me so long to get to her mystery novels.
There were some interesting characters among them--some prove Alleyn's great allies.
But Dennis had been taken in by Mr. Merryman.

The weakest in this series so far, I think.
Nothing special in the way of characters, in fact most of them are pretty unattractive.
Setting not the most interesting.
Fox and Co. are back at the Yard whilst Alleyn makes do with a couple of deputized passengers.
No revelations of Alleyn's background or character.
When the murderer is eventually revealed, his motivation seems kind of trumped-up.
On to the next and hope it's just a momentary lapse.Something about the old 1958 edition that filled my hold, rebound in ugly orange buckram, reminded me of shelving mysteries of this vintage as a library page in the 1960s.
Entertaining read of a serial killer who is likely aboard the Cape Farewell. Interesting characters and humorous sections. It’s a dated book, so of course one will come across some things that would be offensive by today’s standards.
Entertaining as always, though I prefer the books in which Troy and Fox appear. Great snapshot of life in the intimate community of a not-really-cruise-ship.
A serial killer on a cruise ship travel from Portsmouth to Cape Town. Inspector Alleyn joins the trip when investigations lead them to believe the murderer is on board.
Inspector Alleyn takes a cruise, because the Flower Murderer killed a girl who was delivering flowers to a lady just before departure time, and then came aboard natural as could be and took his place among the passengers.
Each passenger plus some of the crew has individualistic features that help create the maze Alleyn follows.At the time Marsh wrote, she was a star mystery author because, like Sayers, her books were as much novels as puzzles.
Nowadays, that's a common part of the genre, but Marsh is still a star because her mystery novels don't rely on gore to entrap blood-loving readers.
The story takes place on board a cruise ship and the detective, Inspector Alleyn is incognito as he hunts for a serial killer who may be on board.
Of course, at the time they weren't called serial killers and the psychological profiles for serial killers weren't really developed like you'd see on a crime show today.
Also, Alleyn writes up his "casebook" in a letter to his wife and indicates pretty early on that he has a good idea who the killer is, though he doesn't let us know until the end.
Excellent setting and character development as well.
Singing in the Shrouds by Ngaio Marsh is the 20th Superintendent Roderick Alleyn mystery novel.The latest victim of the "flower murderer" is discovered clutching a piece of a torn embarkation notice for Cape Farewell and Superintendent Alleyn boards the ship to catch the killer. An interesting, enjoyable book of the classic detective style. It misses the usual supporting characters who only play a minor role from afar. Superintendent Alleyn is superb as always.
I've only read two of her books so far both both fares the same: delightful writing, predictable but nevertheless exhausting homophobia and classism, and a puzzlingly anticlimactic ending. I will probably keep reading her to pass the time, but it's certainly obvious why she hasn't held up over time the way Christie and Sayers did.
The 'flower murderer' has struck again, and a clue leads the police to believe he may be a passenger on the ship.
So Alleyn joins the passengers, incognito (at least at first) and begins to try to figure out which of them it might be.
As the relationships arise, change, and unfold, Alleyn eventually figures it out, but not before another murder occurs.
I read this one at the very start of an intense 48 hour solo-babysitting encounter, and I was in a good mental space, and could appreciate her plotting and characters.
It's always interesting when classic detective fiction authors tackle serial killers, and this one gives the impression of Ngaio Marsh making a conscientious effort to be up to date.
He's not always received with respect by the other characters, but Inspector Alleyn (and I think the author) treat him with respect.
It's an unusual treatment for the time period, and I think influenced by Marsh's real friendships, but I'm probably influenced by what I know of her personal history.
Again with the young lovers who are the white headed children, and the plucky sensible girl who I just don't like.Those tropes aside, though, I actually enjoyed this one.
None of the cast are especially likeable or sane, and while I would have enjoyed it being the dirty old man more, this was quite satisfactory.
If you don't want to roll your eyes at the gross caricature that I don't think was meant to be a gross caricature, but a true to life, and not exactly the kindest depiction, I'd give this one a miss.
You're not missing all together that much.
I think I may have to add large ships heading to far off lands to my list of favorite settings.
It's such a great opportunity for writers to bring together a large assortment of characters that are all stuck together in the middle of a vast body of water, for better or worse.
There's a nice build up of tension in this novel as well.
There are, however, some downsides to this book.
There are very definite prejudices and stereotypes at play, which is pretty common in a lot of these older novels.
#20 in the Scotland Yard Chief Inspector Roderick Alleyn mystery series. A serial killer is on the loose who has been killing women at 10 day intervals. The latest victim is found on the deck outside a ship which carries a small group of passengers. So as the "Cape Farewell" steams out to sea, Alleyn is on board working undercover to identify him before he strikes again. The Captain is unhelpful and the passengers', a wide assortment of characters, antics provide some lightness.
I really quite liked this one. I think I am a sucker for books set on ships (I blame Dragons in the Waters). Maybe it's just that I like the limited cast of characters. I think it works particularly well for murder mysteries. I wasn't sure I'd like this one, but I did in the end.Also, the secondary romance is particularly strong, for this series.Oh, and I adore Alleyn writing letters to his wife.2017 Reading Challenge - A book involving travel
This was the first Inspector Alleyn mystery I had read and I enjoyed it so much that I went on to read some of the others. I was grateful for the character list at the beginning of the book as I referred to it often. The twist was brilliant, I never saw that coming! An enjoyable read.
I actually prefer the classic murder mysteries to not be serial killers but Marsh does a good job of incorporating police techniques and some psychiatric observations as well to find the killer. Overall, a good story but not my favorite in the series.
Even though this novel gave me flashbacks to The Man in the Brown Suit by Agatha Christie (one of my favorite books), I still enjoyed the story. I never figured out whodunit and the twist at the end was superb.
This one had some characters that I liked very much (and some that I enjoyed hating), but, again, it's so hard to read about some of this era's mental health ideas and attitudes.
Amusing
Enjoyable ReadA bit confusing in parts and rambling but still a good read. Alleyn is an interesting detective and I look forward to resding more.
Not among her best -- too much mid-century pop Freud (see: Hitchcock's "Spellbound").
The inspector sets sail with a serial killer and a group of really annoying potential victims.
An old school 'classic' British mystery, but a bit too old and convoluted for my liking.
Just before the cruise lines the SS Cape Farewell sails, he strikes again, at a girl bringing flowers to the ship as a farewell gift to one of the passengers.
So Alleyn, in charge of the investigation, is put on board the ship from Southampton, to travel incognito in an attempt to discover the killer.Marsh uses some psychology to explain the trip, to try to make it more than a plot device to get a small number of people isolated together, the pre-requisite of the classic crime novel.
Her idea is that the killer is a schizophrenic who has some dim recollection of his crimes in his normal moments, going on board ship to escape from the temptation posed by the anonymity of London.
Dorothy Sayer's biography is titled SUCH A STRANGE LADY and she was, but I think New Zealand-born Ngaio Marsh had her beat.
But Alleyn is a professional - a Detective Inspector in the Metropolitan Police Force, better known as Scotland Yard.In the best tradition of having book jackets written by someone who hasn't read the book, my second-hand copy promises that the action takes place on a "luxury cruiser." In reality, the "Cape Farewell" is a cargo ship with only ten passengers.
Author Ngaio Marsh usually writes a pretty good mystery.
There are some exceptions -- Overture To Death and Death And The Dancing Footman come to mind.
Roderick Alleyn goes under cover to discover who on a passenger ship is a serial killer who strangles his victims and then sprinkles flowers over them.
Needless to say, Alleyn gets his man.Marsh plays fair with the reader, and you'll be guessing to the very end.
The psychobabble explanation for the serial killer's motivation will seem dated and unrealistic; however, except for that, the book is a good read with believable characters and situations.
