https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/697650.The_Frontiersmen
Instead, as Eckert takes pains to point out in his forward, every event described in the book actually occurred in the manner described.
What makes this book novelistic is that Eckert has taken the unorthodox approach of using some of this primary material to construct dialogue, rather than simply relate it.
Then she came to this passage, involving a confrontation between "the Frontiersman" himself, Simon Kenton, and Jacob Greathouse, a racist old Indian-killer.
Sure, it could be because I don’t have a great attention span and because I read multiple books at a time for that reason however, I’ve talked to other people who have read it and they had the same problem so even though the characters and story are interesting it’s a bit hard to keep track of , I think Eckert maybe should have included a character guide or something (though I think I mostly got it, just may not exactly be able to do a quiz on this book or anything like that).Warning:This book is extremely graphic!
It's told through the eyes of it's two main characters - Simon Kenton (who I somehow knew nothing about before this book) on the side of the frontiersmen, and Tecumseh on the side of the Native Americans.I've read a lot of late 18th/early 19th century history, but this was my first time seeing that history (American Revolution, War of 1812, etc) through the eyes of Kentuckians/the frontier.
On the other hand, the Kindle version has a bunch of errors in it and it doesn't have some of the maps and illustrations that the paperback version has.- This book is really good, but fair warning - it is also really gory.
Frontier life was brutal.- I read this with Google maps open.
One of the best written historical novels about the settling of the American "West" at the time of the Revolutionary War. Western Ohio that is.
Eckert is a master at transporting the reader back to a historical moment, creating a good story around the facts, and making the reader care.
This book left me in awe of our ancestors' ability to survive.
This was a ruthless time and both Whites and Native Americans did unthinkable deeds.
Heroes in the movies we pay to see today, really did exist.I read this book right after I read The Founding Brothers.
During my reading of that history of the nation's early years mention is made of the people in the Western area of the new nation.
This book did a great deal to fill in some of this void and arouse a curiosity for further delving into this area of history."The Frontiersman" reads like fictional history but the author goes out of his way to assure the reader that it is a genuine history and that everything reported did in fact occur.
AMAZING. The research that went into this book is mind boggling, but when you add to it that this is just one in a series of SIX it is almost too much to fathom! I agree with the other reviews that say it is a tragedy that Simon Kenton isn't more well known, I developed a hardcore history crush on him as I read this book. :) A must read for anyone who is interested in the settling of Kentucky and Ohio!
He proves himself again and again to not only be a clever, brave and formidable statesman and warrior but to be compassionate, constantly speaking out against the brutal torture his fellow natives would put captured Europeans through...I have a clear and obvious bias for the native peoples here and fervently wanted Tecumseh to violently throw off the greedy yoke of the encroaching whites.It's impossible to avoid discussing the horrible, horrible violence in this book.
I imagine that for people living in this area today reading this book would be something like reading a news clipping about a particularly long and gruesome series of murders that happened a long time ago in your house.
It may be harder to track down now...but if you like historical fiction it's a good read.
I read it back in the '70s and liked it a lot.
There's no way not to come away with a better understanding of what happened to the Native Americans and what they lost.
Of course another thing we came away understanding is that to the settlers there was not the idea of robbing the natives they were just in a war.
Like all people in all wars you end up fighting for the one next to you not some idea.
I've read the 'Frontiersmen' three or four times; it's a magnificent book.
In the introduction, the author states that his book is fact, not fiction.
Without a doubt, Eckert dramatizes a lot of the events that occurred during the time period in which 'The Frontiersmen' takes place.
Too, he writes convincingly about a few incidents that have no basis for historical accuracy or certainty.To Eckert's credit, however, he did make amends for some of his unsupported and erroneous 'facts' in 'The Frontiersmen' when he wrote his subsequent books 'A Sorrow in Our Heart,' and 'That Dark and Bloody River.'
I had to read this in middle school over the summer.
But, upon reading it as an adult, I thoroughly enjoyed it.
The Frontiersmen chronicles the life of Simon Kenton (a Kentucky frontiersman) and Tecumseh (the leader of the Shawnee) and the events surrounding the white expansion into what is now known as Ohio and Kentucky.
Unlike many historical books, Eckert uses various resources, journals, newspaper articles, etc to create a narrative of the life of the two main characters.
The narrative writing style of historical events made this book incredibly informative while being easy/interesting to read.
What a great book. I think this should be required reading for for youth. Not just about interesting history, but human nature and Christianity. Ok, sure some controversy about BlueJacket and his genetics, and books statements, but I see as a small blemish. A lot to be learned in this book about the faults of humanity and incredible history.
Great Book. Like Louis L'Amour, if Allan Eckert says it was there, it was there. :0)Great story on the Life of Simon Butler Kenton!Good History of the settlement of Kentucky and Ohio.
4.5 out of 5 stars
All of Eckert's books are classics. When the frontier was in the eastern United States. His books give us history, up close and personal.
Alan Eckerts book The Frontiersmen is a story about the taming of West Virginia, Ohio, Indiana,Michigan, Kentucky and Illinois.
When you read what the settlers went through to claim the land and also what the Indians went through to protect their heritage it makes you appreciate the beginnings of our Ohio.
The story begins very slowly but as I got to the middle of the book I couldn't put it down.
I learned so much from this book I can't wait to read another of his books as he wrote several of that time period.
It reads like non-fiction--straightforward narrative with chapter notes.
Eckert deals with all the leading Native Americans, U.S. and British military leaders, frontiersmen, settlers, merchants and con-men that lived or visited Kentucky and the Northwest Territory.
It sometimes became a bit overwhelming, but his "touchstone" characters were the famous frontiersman Simon Kenton and legendary Shawnee chief Tecumseh.
He presents some compelling firsthand accounts (one, a woman who claimed to have delivered him on the boat) and muddy dates (Simon Kenton mentioned meeting Jackson leading a gang of men in Kentucky when, according to the official biography, Jackson would have only been twelve years old.) Our first birther controversy!
A lovingly crafted tale that surrounds the history and lives of frontiersman Simon Kenton and the Shawnee Chief Tecumseh.
What I was blown away by were the painstaking details Allan Eckert put into this book making sure nothing that was not documented contradicted with the history.
I did not really know anything about either person and came away with a great respect for both.
The narrator did a great job with the Indian words, names and accents as well as the other cultures which can be distracting or embarrassing if not done well.
The writing style put me off immediately (the phrase “placental ejection” occurs in the first paragraph, and later a “deadly rain of blows” leaves our protagonist “groggy”).
But when I got to the story of Marmaduke van Swearingen, a white boy adopted by the Shawnee who later became the great war chief Blue Jacket, alarm bells went off in my head.
Sure enough, a little digging reveals that Blue Jacket and van Swearingen weren’t the same people at all; as far as anyone can tell, Blue Jacket was 100% Shawnee.Only 25 pages in and I’m not sure how much of this book can be trusted.
Simon Kenton, what a hunk. All I can say is that Ohio is a sweet place to grow up and learn about history. This books is a fictional retelling of the history of wait, I forget, oh yeah, frontiersmen in Ohio. Written by a Buckeye, what's cool is that the events and places mentioned are still existing and visit-able. Yes I know that's not a word. Pretty factual hardcore writing, but it's a goodie.
This is the story of Simon Kenton and Tecumseh written in a very compelling and factual way with a wonderful narrative element. Anyone who lives in the Ohio Valley will be amazed by who came before us.
Another in the series of books from Allan W. Eckert about the formative period of the United States between the French and Indian War and the War of 1812. Simon Kenton and Tecumseh are the central figures in a meticulously researched historical novel, a genre Eckert has mastered.
One of the best books about the beginning of America ever written. Its a wonderful book that should be read by every single student in the 8th grade. And if any adult has reached an age beyond 18 and not read this book they need to stop whatever they are doing, and read this book.
Everyone has that first book when they were a kid, that first book that initiated them to the world of literature. For me The Frontiersman was that book. It is a wonderful achievement of narrative history.
The best book about native americans I have ever read. A must read for those that have any interest in Native Americans especially Ohio natives.
Amazing Detail of early Native history
Fantastic book. It was certainly an epic read. I did not know much about the American nortwestern frontier and I learned a great deal. I will read much more from this author.
I've only read the first 1/3 of this book, but it is excellent. Life on the American frontier in the 1770s. Reads like a novel, but very historically accurate.
I am 42% through The Frontiersmen and it has moved to my #1 favorite non-fiction book.
My paternal ancestors were living in Allegheny County, PA, just south of what is now Pittsburgh, in the mid to late 1700s.
Some other ancestors settled in Kentucky.
This book gives a vivid description of various events that occurred in that area and in Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, etc., during this time period (Richard Sparks' story is not included in the book).
I am reading this book for enjoyment and to gain knowledge about our country.
A good read.
It more or less outlines the entire history of the Ohio River frontier from before the American Revolution through the War of 1812, covering the involvement of various well-known historical personages along the way, including Daniel Boone, William Henry Harrison, etc.
The narrative focuses on the struggle between the ever-expanding population of white settlers in the region and the indigenous population of Indians and, in particular, the lives of Simon Kenton (a Boone-like figure who is referred to as "the frontiersman" throughout) and Tecumseh (the Shawnee Chief).
History written to read like a novel.
I get the idea that the author was a huge Davy Crockett fan and probably had his own coon cap growing up and then decided to write this behomoth series.
If you're into history, or Westerns, more power to you, you'll probably love this.
For me it was just okay bordering on "why am I doing this to myself, I don't care about the late 1700s in the US /that much/, or any of this cast of thousands.
Probably literally, given how long the series is." Again, not terrible, just not for me.
I'd probably be okay with reading one book of this genre even at 750 pages, but not six books of the same chunkiness.
