https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/244422.Ribsy
10th read of this Beverly Cleary classic.And I mean classic.
Managed to show us life among the middle and lower white class neighborhoods in a decade that could have been any decade, in a town that could have been any town, focusing in on a family that could have been almost any family, here in the U.S.A.And she uses a dog, good old Ribsy, as the lens, so to speak, that gives us vision.
The first book report I ever did was on this book in fourth grade.
I had never done a book report before and had no idea what it entailed, finally assuming that it simply meant that I was to describe each and every event that happens in the book.
I ended up filling an entire single-subject Mead notebook with pencilled cursive, basically rewriting "Ribsy" by Beverly Clearly in my own words.
Apparently my teacher didn't understand the concept behind a book report either, or maybe she just felt bad, because I got an A.
Subsequent book reports incorporating this process were not nearly as successful.
Beyond the excellent & funny adventure, there's a great lesson in empathy. Every person or family that Ribsy gets help from is different, and kids can learn to care about all these people because Cleary is a master at characterization, even in the form of chapter-long sketches.
This is a review by Braelynn, my 7 year old (I helped type and adjust a few words as she dictated): "To all the children who might want to read this book: This story was about finding a lost dog.
In the beginning Henry Huggin's family went to the grocery store.
Ribsy wanted to go to the grocery store too.
When Henry Huggins got to the grocery store he left Ribsy in the station wagon.
Ribsy had saw Henry open and shut the automatic window, so he tried to do it too.
Henry finds him at the apartment and is happy.
What really keeps me going with Beverly Cleary is her insight on the way children learn and grow, and the way children interact with adults and teachers.
That's why I feel her books should be part of the curriculum in teaching credential programs; they offer as much as any child psychology text.
Here she gives the reader just as much careful observation into the mind of a dog when Henry Huggins's faithful Ribsy is lost for nearly a month.
We’ve listened to this audiobook probably five times in the last month. My girls love it and so do I.
So begins an adventure of ups and downs on this lively and loyal canine's quest to find his way back home in Ribsy by author Beverly Cleary.Gee. I know I read this book at some point during my childhood, and I'll bet I enjoyed it.
I also think it's very likely that I enjoyed it even more this time around.While this is another Henry Huggins and Ribsy tale, this one is mostly from middle-aged Ribsy's point of view.
Did that detail ever stick out to me before, that friendly and enthusiastic Ribsy is middle-aged?)This book didn't have quite as many laughs for me as other Henry books, but I felt just as much.
Henry Huggins, Henry and Beezus, Henry and Ribsy, Henry and the Paper Route, Henry and the Clubhouse, and Ribsy – I was quite happy to listen to this collection of books! It was quitespecial to listen to Beverly Cleary introduce the book and honestly loved listening to Neil Patrick Harris narrate most of the stories. What a treasured character I just love remembering from childhood. I’m happy that I’ve been able to introduce my son to Henry Huggins, perfect for his age and life experiences from dealing with pushy kids to losing teeth to loving dogs to taking on responsibility.
This is a "sentimental favorite" of mine. It was the first Beverly Cleary book I read; while it is a fine story in and of itself, it was also my introduction to the adventures of Henry Huggins and Ramona Quimby, some of which were among my all-time favorite books.
I loved Henry Huggins as a kid and used to wait weeks for these books at the library. Ribsy is Henry's dog and this is a story told from his point of view. I have great memories of this whole series.
Ribsy was a nice addition to the story. Henry became great friends with Ribsy and adopted him as his dog. Henry found Ribsy on the street, very helpless, weak, and thin with his ribs sticking out. And that's how Ribsy earned his name!
The book I read for Quarter 2 is Ribsy by Beverly Cleary. The books lexile is 820. This is a book of adventure of a dog getting lost. Ribsy got lost in a shopping mall parking lot. Horns honking and pouring rain he finally thought he found his owners station wagon. Little did he know, it was the wrong car. Surrounded by girls wanting to pet him, he is about to get a bath. The thing he hates most. Ribsy just wants his best friend Henry back by his side. The theme of the book Ribsy is “Never give
The book I read for Quarter 2 is Ribsy by Beverly Cleary.
This is a book of adventure of a dog getting lost.
The text that supports this is that he knew that he was lost and had to search and search to find what he thought was the correct station wagon (car).
Many times lost dogs don’t return home.Thankfully this story ends happy and Ribsy and Henry are reunited again.I liked this book because it’s a series and I have read many of the other books.
The book Ribsy was just the right fit for me.
This the second Beverly Clearly book I've read to the kids.
The other one being The Mouse and the Motorcycle.
And they both have the same quality- slow and quaint.
The kids seem to enjoy them; my youngest actually loved it.
We got done, and, being 8 years old, he wanted to start right back at the beginning, this time reading through it himself.
For me, well, it was slow, uneventful, and very dated.
But, if my little guy liked it, it was a win.
Great books for young elementary school kids.
And, it's interesting, Beverly Clearly is still alive.
I thought I'd read all the Ribsy and Henry Huggins book, but when Eden requested this one, I realized I hadn't! This book is mostly about Ribsy, because it's about how Ribsy gets lost and must find his way home. Of course he had many adventures on the way. Ribsy is always fun, but I missed Henry, who's only in the book a little.
My family listened to this on a car trip. My kids liked it.
This was a good "old-fashioned" children's chapter book which would also be wonderful as a chapter, or two, a night bedtime book for the younger crowd. I listened to an audiobook narrated by Neil Patrick Harris and he was fabulous!
The little kids and I listened to this on audio. I didn't read Cleary's Henry Huggins books as a child; I'm positive that I was just snooty enough to reject them as being "boy books." Interestingly, my older daughter and I much prefer Henry to Cleary's Ramona Quimby. My little boy also loves Henry and his dog Ribsy. Henry is a wonderful boy. He isn't perfect, but he would make a great Boy Scout. Ramona, lovable as she is, is really obnoxious in comparison.
but when the owner goes and heads out to the mall ribsy gets really nervous.
and so he just finds a car that looks like his owners car and hops inside.
but the family takes ribsy and the try to give him a bath.
after he took a bath he ran out and he went to the next place and the next and this whole time he is just lost.
one time me and my mom went to the bank and we left the dog in the car with the window opened just enough so she could get some air.
just like in the book when ribsy opened the window to get out.
I absolutely loved Henry and Ribsy as a six year old, so decided to read this to my own six-year-old before bedtime.
But I didn't enjoy this experience -- this is perhaps one of the weaker stories in this series, and doesn't make for a very good read-aloud.
Turns out she'd still rather prefer picturebooks rather than illustrated chapter books like this one, and I see no reason to rush her through that stage.One thing this book does well -- for kids who are enjoying the story, at least -- is helping the reader to feel smart.
Ribsy is the story of the adventures of a dog that gets lost from his family.
The story is told from the dog's perspective.
It is written in first person.
I chose the book because Beverly Cleary is a very well-known, well-loved author who has been around for years.
However, I did not enjoy this story.
I think that it is well written for a younger audience.
This book fits logically within the Primary to Intermediate age level as the writing level and content seem to fit there, best.
Boy! Ribsy sure had some fun in this book all about him and his adventures. I am glad that the book ended the way that it did. I was feeling anxious with every chapter for it to end well. You'll see what happens if you get to read this book, so you will, won't you? Given it a try. You'll love it no matter if you're young and have to have it read to you or an older reader like me who never got to read these as a kid. I love it, and I hope that you do too!
Revisiting this childhood classic is an exercise into what makes Beverly Cleary a masterful storyteller. In this story, Henry's beloved Ribsy becomes lost through a series of circumstances. As he meets various people on his way back to Henry, Ribsy's experiences are both humorous and revealing about the human condition. Delightful and full of love, this is one sweet dog story that has lasted for a reason. Highly recommended.
While not as tickled by this one, and of course seeing the blatant rip-off of Lassie Come Home (dog loses master, meets up with a variety of people on his way home to his master), I still enjoyed it. The ending was heartwarming and made me tear up, of course. I just missed watching Henry and Ribsy enjoy their adventures together.
Poor Ribsy. He gets lost in a parking lot and is in a frantic search for his his life. Confused to where his owner, Henry, is he doesn't understand why strange people are trying to coddle him. Eventually, he finds his way back to his owner, but after many ridiculous events. This a funny, entertaining book. Ages 8/9+
I have never read a Henry or Ribsy story. Rjbsy is a sweet and dated tale about a dog who gets separated and lost from his family, but who brings nothing but joy to new friends he meets as he finds his way home again. They even used the old phrase, "Get off my lawn" which I thought was hilarious.
My 9 year old son gives this one four stars. I give it three. It was good, but not as good as the others in the series. Most of this book focuses on Ribsy (the dog) -- what's happening to him and what he thinks about it. The other books in the series focus on what Henry (the young boy) is thinking. I find the inside of a boy's mind a lot more interesting than the inside of a dog's mind.
This was my 2nd B. Cleary book, & it was a good story for young people....I liked it. I think I can see why she was such a popular author among the 'children's' crowd. What I 'really' liked about this book....was that it was an old hard copy checked out from the library....& it had that wonderful 'old library book smell'!! 4 stars for that aspect!
I really enjoyed this book. Ribsey's adventures were fun and the people he met were interesting. All of them different, all giving an interesting part to the story. I enjoyed reading this and would read it again.
Another fun read aloud, especially for boys! Fun to discover that the author grew up in Portland, she's celebrating her 100th birthday this month, and there is even statues of the main characters of her books, Henry, Ribsy, and Ramona in Grant Park. The kids can't wait to take the walking tour.
Last one in the series! I hate to have it come to and end, but the beauty of books is you can always read them again! Ribsy is a great dog, one of the best in literature, and I love that this book is told mostly from his point of view. Highly Recommended!
