https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13140.Jack_Jill
"Jack and Jill" is the third story in Patterson's gripping novels about police detective and psychologist, Dr. Alex Cross.
Like the majority of the cases that Dr. Cross is assigned to, all involved seem to be complex and have peculiar, sometimes hidden motives.
In the majority of the Alex Cross stories I have read so far, there has often been a fair amount of distress to, and violence to young children.
In one scene he talks to one of the killers and says "I know how you feel" and his internal thoughts highlight this with a statement along the lines of ...
The third book in the Alex Cross series which I am accidentally reading totally out of order.
It does not seem to matter too much except that some of the baddies pop up again in later books which can be confusing:)I am an Alex Cross fan.
He is also a very good cop and I like how he never takes rubbish from anyone, even his superiors.
This book is standard James Patterson fare which means it is entertaining, full of action and a thoroughly good read.
And the final identity of Jack was a total surprise - to me anyway!Definitely worth a read if you enjoy this genre.
Reading all the Alex Cross books to date is one of my reading goals for 2018, but I’m only now done three.
I enjoy them a lot and they aren’t too big so they go by quickly.
This one had two very intriguing crime plots.
I usually do not get too into political thrillers but I actually really enjoyed the Jack and Jill plot.
Both plots had some very good twists and when both are revealed there is shocking moments.
I did not find this book to be predictable, and I am so glad.
I love when they aren’t predictable.
Their relentless search needed to be thorough; the killer needed to be found.Meanwhile, a US senator was murdered in a particularly gruesome manner – Jack and Jill were on the hunt and had threatened that this was just the beginning – they promised they would strike again…More bodies, more murders – Alex and Sampson were in it up to their necks.
Jack & Jill is the third in the Alex Cross series by James Patterson and is filled with the usual fast paced action; multiple murders and a home scene which I thoroughly enjoy.
A murderous duo calling themselves Jack and Jill are killing important people in Washington, D.C. Detective Alex Cross is put on the case when they threaten the President.
I found the plot in this 3rd book of the Alex Cross series to be just as action-packed and exciting as the first two books.
I started reading just this year because the series is listed as part of The Great American Read.
I can see why this series is part of the list of 100 books for The Great American Read.
(I'm counting series listed as one, even if I read multiple books).
I thought this book was good, but not as good as the first two. It didn't draw me in like the other ones did. The ending though was intense and the only part of the book I really got into. It announced what the fourth book was going to be about by having Gary Soneji from "Along Came a Spider" reappear in the story again. I recommend this book to anyone who liked the first two of the Alex Cross series because this book leads into the story line of the fourth book which is very good.
2018 Reading Challenge: book set in the 1990sI’m going to force myself to read this series. I may eventually enjoy it
While reading this one I couldn't help thinking, was Kiss the Girls really that good?Patterson does have a terse writing style, but it didn't seem this bad before.
For a guy who writes so sparsely, he sure is repetitive throughout the story:'Was Jack up ahead?
Was Hawkins Jack?
Well, I have to admit, the story itself was quite good, and I pretty much had to see it through to see how things turned out.Given the right director and screenplay, this would make a terrific movie.As for future Patterson efforts, I'll wait for the movies, thanks.
This chilling tale pulls our hero, Alex Cross, in two totally different directions. A child killer in his very own neighborhood should take precedence, or so Detective Doctor Cross and his faithful companion Sampson believe; however, Cross' superiors want him on Presidential detail. Both stories unfold in completely unexpected ways. The Conspiracy Theorist potential of the President's predicament is realistic, humbling and frightening; while the child killer case rips the readers' heart in two. The third Alex Cross novel is fabulously written and may very well keep you up late.
Jack and Jill by James Patterson is the 3rd book featuring Alex Cross. Alex Cross investigates the murder of a US senator with a note signed by Jack and Jill claiming this to be the start of further killings as well as the murders of children who are being battered to death. A fast paced and action packed typical Alex Cross novel with lots of twists and thrills.
Ταυτόχρονα, εξάχρονα και εφτάχρονα παιδάκια δολοφονούνται στη γειτονιά του Άλεξ Κρος όμως η δυάδα των Τζακ και Τζιλ αποσπά τη μερίδα του λέοντος στα ΜΜΕ, κάτι που εξοργίζει τον δολοφόνο των παιδιών και η κατάσταση σύντομα θα εκτραχυνθεί!Αυτή είναι η τρίτη περιπέτεια που έγραψε ο James Patterson με ήρωα τον Άλεξ Κρος και η υπόθεση είναι αρκετά ενδιαφέρουσα, γεμάτη ανατροπές και εκπλήξεις.
Ο δολοφόνος των παιδιών είναι εξίσου δαιδαλώδης σαν υπόθεση και ο συγγραφέας χρησιμοποιεί ένα έξυπνο συγγραφικό τέχνασμα για να δυσκολέψει τον αναγνώστη ως προς την πραγματική ταυτότητά του.
Reading this book is like reading a used undergraduate textbook, only it's got italics instead of highlighter.
I don't think I've ever seen so many random italics to indicate words the author thinks we should focus on.
And yes, it really is annoying enough that even I, a compulsive book-finisher, am considering just returning this one to the library.Also, there's a pretty basic research error: the author uses "semiautomatic" and "revolver" interchangeably.I stopped reading about 10 pages from the end, once the "mystery" had been solved.
I've read a few James Patterson books now, and I won't bother reading any more.
Number 3 in he Alex Cross series and this time Alex has not one but two killer to hunt down.Two young children have been brutally murdered.
All the more so because Alex's kids attend the very same school that victims attended.To make matters worse there are two psychopathic killers (Jack & Jill) running around killing high profile citizens.Needless to say the FBI and the NYPD need Alex on the case.
Alex finds himself trying to solve both cases at the same time, not an easy task.The end game, I thought, was a bit over the top.
Short chapters, quick pace with the tension ranking up as the end is in site.
It just felt as if it didn't fit.Minor Spoiler here---- When Christine's husband gets shot and killed I sort of felt like it was a way Alex could finally be with her without it seeming so horrible.
You never meet her husband or know how she feels about his up until this point but you know how Alex feels about her every time he see's her to the point it gets annoying and obsessive.I have always liked James Patterson tho and have a hard time giving his books less then three stars and maybe this one did deserve two but the writing was good and I will read at least a few more in the series.
Two working together as Jack and Jill who are murdering well known celebrities and then also the Truth School killer who's murdering little kids.
The kids being killed by the Truth School killer are black and the celebrities are both white, rich and powerful, so guess who gets the most attention from the police force in Washington?
Of course Alex contests this strongly but is forced into working more on the Jack and Jill case by his superiors.
Very good book, gripping and how a thriller should be.
This story is made more intense by the threat his work sometimes brings home to his family.
When tracking a serial killer, it can become difficult to determine exactly who is the prey and who is the predator.The two simultaneous cases that Alex works in this story serve up plenty of tension and excitement.
The child killer is a personal matter as much as a professional one, but Alex is forced by his chief to put most of his energy into the Jack and Jill case.As is typical of this series, the character of the killers is nearly as developed as that of the "good guys," which can be quite disturbing at times.
আচছা! একটা থরিলার বইয়ে কয়টা খুন হতে পারে?ঘোরতর থরিলার কিংবা মারডার মিসটরি পড়ুয়ারা এই আহামমকি মারকা পরশন শুনে খুব বিরকত হতে পারেন। :3 এগুলা কোন কথা! বই তো বই-ই আর খুন তো খুন-ই। ধরা বাঁধা নিয়ম আছে নাকি আবার? খুনিদের কাজ খুন করা আর পুলিশ কিংবা হোমিসাইড ডিপারটমেনটের দায়িতব তাদের খুঁজে বের করা। বযাস.. একটা টানটান উততেজনার থরিলার বইয়ের কাঠামো তৈরি ;) :Pএকটা জিনিস কলপনা করে দেখেন... লুডু খেলার বোরডের মতো একটা বোরড, যেখানে বেশ কিছু বিখযাত মানুষের (পরতযেকেই যার যার সেকটরে বিখযাত) ছবি সাঁটা। দুইজন পরাপত ব
একটা থ্রিলার বইয়ে কয়টা খুন হতে পারে?ঘোরতর থ্রিলার কিংবা মার্ডার মিস্ট্রি পড়ুয়ারা এই আহাম্মকি মার্কা প্রশ্ন শুনে খুব বিরক্ত হতে পারেন। :3 এগুলা কোন কথা!
এক জোড়া।জ্যাক এণ্ড জিল। তাদের ভাষায়- এগুলো খুন নয়, একটা খেলা।ঐদিকে আবার আরেক কাহিনি...
একের পর এক খুন হয়ে যাচ্ছে ছোট ছোট বাচ্চারা। খুন হবার পদ্ধতিটিও খুব বিভৎস। অবশ্য এ খুনগুলোতে কোন প্যাটার্ন মানা হয়নি। একটু অগোছালো টাইপ...
নাকি ততোধিক?অসাধারনের উপর একটা সাইকো+মার্ডার মিস্ট্রি থ্রিলার বই হল 'জ্যাক এণ্ড জিল'। শুরুতেই সতর্কতা বইটা নাকি প্রাপ্ত বয়স্কদের জন্য। অবশ্য অনুবাদক সর্বস্তরের হাতে তুলে দেয়ার জন্য নাকি একটু রয়ে সয়েই অনুবাদ করেছেন। ;) (Y) বইটা সম্পর্কে কিছু বলব?
At the beginning J&J are playing with a game board of some kind, but that is completely forgotten after a few chapters & has nothing to do with the motive.
Again, too many red herrings and the killer's motive never is clearly seen.
The killer is only after black children and you never know if it was just opportunity or racism.A point of note is that the future Mrs. Cross, Christine, is introduced.The reason I bought the audio was because John Rubinstein did part of the audio.
He does the John Kellerman audios and in this plays all the killer's voices.
Blair Underwood is the voice of Cross and he is awful.
With JACK & JILL, the Alex Cross series--which began with the quite entertaining ALONG CAME A SPIDER--simply falls of a cliff.
The character of Alex Cross doesn't fare very well here, either.
Unfortunately, there's precious little of that to be found in JACK & Jill.
JACK & JILL is easily one of the most amateurishly written best-sellers I've ever read.
It makes Dan Brown look like Dostoyevsky.
I seriously doubt whether Patterson took the time to produce more than a single draft, and I find it even harder to imagine that the manuscript was ever looked at by a professional editor.
Jack & Jill (Alex Cross #3)There isn't much I can say about the book or the author.
I love the Alex Cross series.
I was hooked with "A Long Came a Spider," and "Kiss the Girls."Jack and Jill is a fast pace, riveting, suspense/thriller.
This is a novel I would love to watch on the big screen!James Patterson is an Master at character development, which is such an essential element in the craft of writing.
Plot development received excellent support from its chapter development and suspenseful sub-plotting.
Jack and Jill is an assassination team that terrorize the DC area, and puts Capital Hill on high alert.
I hated this book. It was recommended I read this by a friend who said this was a great series and this one was one of the best of this series. Wow, I can see we do not have the same taste. It was awfully written, implausible, and quite ridiculous. I will not read any more Alex Cross if the rest are like this.
Alex Cross is back in this, the third installment from top-selling American author, James Patterson.
The action starts with the murder of a US Senator.
The body-count soon starts to mount and Homicide Detective Alex Cross becomes the go-to man.
Cross is torn between the two seemingly unrelated serial murder cases.
The young children being murdered attend Cross's own sons school and therefore have personal significance for Cross.
Like all Patterson books, the writing style is fast-paced and punchy.
You know what you are getting with a James Patterson thriller, and this is no exception.
An entertaining, yet easy-to-read thriller.
Jack & Jill gives a creepy insight into the inter-workings of our government.
With his heart in trying to solve the case, he gets pulled off and put on the Jack and Jill case.He goes undercover with his partner Sampson and a few guys from their department to try to solve the cases themselves.
The cases aren't getting much attention because of the high profile murders.
This novel is fast paced and keeps you guessing until Patterson is ready to reveal the whole story to you.
The Jack and Jill killings were intimate but lacking emotions.
Patterson nails another great book.
Alex Cross is called in for a big crime, a killing duo who have named themselves Jack and Jill.
Jack and Jill are aiming high and have their sights set on the President.In Alex Cross' neighbourhood, also where his son goes to school, someone is killing children and leaving their bodies on the school property.
Cross and his superiors are having problems on deciding which case he should work on, but of course Alex Cross is going to solve them all!I'm still trying to decide if I like Alex Cross or not, which is upsetting to my husband since he is Alex Cross' biggest fan.
My big negative is that Alex Cross didn't do any real detective work to find the killers.
James Patterson Jack and JillI listened to this book on audio and really enjoyed the experience.Patterson is a master of his genre and his older work, like Jack and Jill is especially great.
Patterson has a winner in the two main protagonists in this book Dr Alex Cross and man mountain…The evil doers, Jack and Jill and the Truth School killer is written with enough humanity interwoven to make the reader somewhat conflicted.
That is an excellent skill, making the bad guys, human enough for the reader to find something to associate with.I really loved the story.The narrators being split between masters of storytelling made this a true production.This book deserves it's four stars.
I love thrillers but this one missed all the marks. I found that the villains' motivations were not explored thoroughly or believable or were just plain too simplistic. It is basically evil for the sake of being evil and in real life things are a lot more complex than that. I listened to an audiobook version found on my library which was only 3 hours long, so maybe the actual book was more thorough, we'll never know because I don't plan to find out.
Clearly 5 Stars!!! James Patterson never SEEKS to AMAZE Me, so so good!!! Once you start reading you don't want to put the book down until your done. This was like shooting darts at you in every direction and it's not over yet... on to the next Cat & Mouse...
A good, solid introduction back into the world of Alex Cross. I'm kind of excited that I have the entire series ahead of me still to read. I adore the Michael Bennett series and I thoroughly enjoyed this Alex Cross novel.
Stirring ghosts from the real world where both Kennedy brothers have been assassinated and their death is still subject of widespread analysis.It really is the biggest crime you could probably commit not just in the U.S. but also around the globe, this is a act that will put you into the history books, something Jack and Jill are counting on.
Thrilling!I was hoping for Alex to finally mange to discover who stands behind president assassination but I guess it is one of the many parallels drawn between fictional and real world!
The book that started my reading frenzy.
I had read James Patterson's Maximum Ride series, so I was looking to see if my mom and dad owned any of the books.
I found a book labeled "Jack & Jill".
I have to thank Jack & Jill for opening my eyes to the world of adult fiction, but now that I look back on it, I think the book was bad(I'm 15 now).
Now I thought Jack & Jill had to much romance and not enough Cross.
The book was awesome when I first read it, but now it just seems dry.
