https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760.Memories_of_My_Melancholy_Whores
To enjoy this book you have to enter the mind and world of this old, old man, living the last years of his life in poverty in the once-grand, decaying house of his youth.
This book is the musings of a life without much happiness, not sex, and the girl is no more molested than was Snow White resting in her glass case with only her beauty on show.I wrote this update purely because both on GR and in my shop people "have heard" about this book and so don't think they want to read it.
(B+) 77% | GoodNotes: The premise is interesting and the text is beautifully written, but the story’s thin and the ending’s a bit disappointing.
This is it everyone- The most depressing book I have read.
Yes. This book.
Not the ones about the holocaust, brutal wars, awful diseases...
this book.
I don't know why it got to me like it did, but I would read a few pages and feel physically sick to my stomach.
it's just this sense of awfulness.
This awful awful life he's lead, and what he has never known.
What his little, vulgar life consists of.Maybe Marquez is just too on his game here.
He's just too good at creating this sense of emptiness, and this wasteland of a life.
Memoria de mis putas tristes = Memories of My Melancholy Whores, Gabriel García Márquez Memories of My Melancholy Whores (Spanish: Memoria de mis putas tristes) is a novella by Gabriel García Márquez. The book was originally published in Spanish in 2004, with an English translation by Edith Grossman published in October 2005.An old journalist, who has just celebrated his 90th birthday, seeks sex with a young prostitute, who is selling her virginity to help her family. Instead of sex, he discover
Memoria de mis putas tristes = Memories of My Melancholy Whores, Gabriel Garcí­a Márquez Memories of My Melancholy Whores (Spanish: Memoria de mis putas tristes) is a novella by Gabriel García Márquez.
The book was originally published in Spanish in 2004, with an English translation by Edith Grossman published in October 2005.An old journalist, who has just celebrated his 90th birthday, seeks sex with a young prostitute, who is selling her virginity to help her family.
Both deal with men who build flowery romantic/erotic relationships in their minds with a completely passive sleeping woman.
In "Melancholy Whores", the "lover" is a man who has just turned ninety and falls in love with a 14 year old prostitute who he visits every night while she sleeps deeply (possibly drugged).
If you choose to put aside the creepy elements and focus on the romantic sentiment and poetic pedestal that Delgadina (the name the old man invents for his nameless "whore") is placed atop, the book is a very beautiful reflection on the need for love and the degradations of aging.
2.5/5After getting the cringing fingernails down a chalkboard type feeling of a ninety-year-old man with a boner eradicated from my mind, I thought to myself "right, now that's out the way, this IS García Márquez we are talking about here, I am in safe hands, don't worry, this will turn out to be a decent read".
This novella is narrated by an aging connoisseur of girls for hire.
The narrator's wit and charm were not enough to counterbalance the monotony of his aimlessness, and sadly as a result, I never at any moment felt anything for anyone involved.
و لأنه أنفق حياته في الملذات بالطول و العرض و لم يع أن وجود شريكة لحياته من الأمور المهمة إلا في الفراش فقد كانت الحقيقة الكاشفة أن الروح لا تصدأ أبدا و أن الجسد يبلى و القلب ما زال أخضرا على عوده منذ ذلك الوقت بدأت أقيس الحياة ليس بالسنوات و لكن بالعقود.
و الستينيات كانت الأكثر توترا لاشتباهي في أنه لم يبق لدي وقت حتى أخطئ.
و السبعينيات كان مخيفا لاشتباهي في أنه ربما يكون العقد الأخير من عمري.
You got to give García Márquez some credit: The man can write an opening line.
And so begins an intriguing story of a man who finally falls in love at the ripe age of 90 with a 14-year-old prostitute.
If you're familiar with García Márquez's oeuvre of work, prostitution and underage sex would be just a walk in the park for most.
However, I must warn you of these themes if you cannot stomach it.I'd call this "Sleeping Beauty with a Márquez twist".
No, it isn't the erotic fantasy of a dirty old man.
A Latin-American "Lolita" Lite or: Don't Let The Title Scare You (This Isn't A Dirty Old Man Book)It’s been years since I've read anything by Gabriel García Márquez, and so this little book, while not as grand, sweeping or substantial as the works that earned him the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1982, came as a lovely, gentle surprise.Reading it felt like catching up with a grizzled old friend who can tell a mean story.
Once sniffed, it's impossible to tear yourself away.Take the book’s remarkable opening line:“The year I turned ninety, I wanted to give myself the gift of a night of wild love with an adolescent virgin.” The unnamed narrator isn’t as lecherous as he sounds.

Cuando conoce a su joven virgen ella está dormida y así es siempre porque la drogan un poco para que le sea más fácil perder la virginidad.
Y este amor platónico lo hace hacer cosas que nunca ha hecho o se ha resistido hacer, cómo cambiar los temas que trata en sus publicaciones y en unos meses que se dejan de ver, desesperado la busca en bicicleta en todos los sitios donde cree poder encontrarla.Sinceramente creo esta novela solo fue publicada porque la escribió Gabriel García Márquez.✨✨✨This man without name has never fallen in love, but he has had a lot of casual sex, almost always with prostitutes.
تداعيات مسن لم تجعلني أشعر بشيء تجاهه سوى بالكراهية...0أذكر أن الرواية جعلتني أشعر بالسوء، و بذلك الشعور الذي يأبى إلا أن يتكرر في كل مرة...أشعر بأني أكون محلقة و خفيفة ثم تأتي أمثالها فترميني بحجر و تسقطني على أم رأسي معيدة إياي إلى الأرض و مثقلة إياي بحيث أني لا أعود أستطيع المشي قدما و لا حتى التنفس و هي ترزح فوق صدري، لو أني بقيت عالقة طويلا فيها، لو أني آمنت بها، لو أني عشت داخلها...
هذا الواقع حسب رؤيا فلان من الناس و ليس حسب ما يراه غيره أو حتى حسب الوجود الخارجي...
و لكني أستطيع رؤية أن ليس هذا هو الواقع و لا هذه هي الحياة فقط...
كنت أقول دومًا أن ثمة أعمال يحصل بينها وبين أعمال أخرى تلاقي / تقارب من الأفكار لا أتحدث عن السطو والسرقة - رغم وجود هذا الشيء - بل أتحدث عن تناغم بين كتابين بطريقة خفية، أو بواسطة إلهام من كتاب سابق يناقش الكتاب الذي بين يديك مثلًًا، وعندما كتبياسوناري كواباتا / Yasunari Kawabata روايته / : والتي وصلتنا بترجمتها (الجميلات النائمات / ) وهى رواية غريبة الموضوع وأعتقد الغرابة تكمن عندي من إختلاف الثقافات ليس أكثر.
أعجبني العمل الأول الياباني لياسوناري أكثر من عمل ماركيز.
حالتي الرفض في العربية والغربية هو عدم المساس.
The story however was extremely disturbing and sad.
He goes to see her and finds her asleep because she had been so afraid she had to be sedated.
Although he doesn't have sex with her because she's asleep, he describes her naked body in detail - describing her pre-pubescent breasts, etc.
It was disgusting and disturbing.This book wasn't written in a time when this was even discreetly acceptable, it was written in 2004 when it is considered by most societies, certainly Garcia-Marquez's society as taboo.
He did it to shock and titillate - well all it did was disgust me.
The beginning of a new life at an age when most mortals have already died."There is no subject in our society that is associated with more myths and misinformation than that of sexual intimacy and the elderly.
Some examples of the myths include:- impotence is a natural consequence of ageing.- sexual activity can be dangerous for the elderly.- the sex drive or libido diminishes with advancing years for both men and women.Sometimes, in the end, it is impossible not to become what others believe you are.
I love life and live it to the full and I want to stick around on this earth for as long as I possibly can.
An old journalist, who has just celebrated his 90th birthday, seeks sex with a young prostitute, who is selling her virginity to help her family.
Instead of sex, he discovers love for the first time in his life.خاطرات روسپيان سودازده‌ من ؛ مترجم: اميرحسين فطانتعنوانها: خاطره دلبرکان غمگین من؛ خاطرات روسپيان سودازده‌ من؛ نویسنده: گابریل گارسیا مارکز؛ تارخ نخستین خوانش: سال 2007 میلادیعنوان: خاطره دلبرکان غمگین من؛ نویسنده: گابریل گارسیا مارکز؛ مترجم: کاوه میرعبّاسی ؛ تهران، نیلوفر، 1386؛ در 124 ص؛ شابک: 9644482522؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان کلمبیائی - قرن 20 معنوان: خاطرات روسپيان سودازده‌ من؛ نویسنده: گابریل گارسیا مارکز؛ مترجم: اميرحسين فطانت؛ محمد امامی؛ تهران، آهنگ دیگر؛ 1383؛ در 128 ص؛ شابک: 9648433127؛ روزنامه نگاری که همه ی عمر را بی زن و فرزند و در تنهایی بگذرانده، در نود سالگی بار دیگر عشق را تجربه میکند و دلدادگی پیرانه سر زندگیش را دگرگون میکند، تلخ ترین عذابها را تاب میآورد تا به عشق ناب و پاک برسد.
No matter how religious somebody might be, they still judge us by our body age, not the age of our mind or our soul.Even though Delgadina is technically an adult at age fourteen, people still think of her as a child.
It was as if my 90 year old body wasn’t up to the task, whatever the capacity of my mind, let alone my soul.
Sometimes I wonder if they imagine that I have done only what they would like to have done, or in Delgadina’s position, might have wanted me to do to them.I wonder whether these people know what it means to be a soul.
We rush into love as if we were late to an appointment.
Gabriel Garcia Marquez in his MEMORIES OF MY MELANCHOLY WHORES doesn't rush.
The protagonist turns 90 and, mindful of his mortality, wants what he's never had: "A night of wild love with an adolescent virgin." Of course, desire is a dream and dreams are an attempt to remember.
And, what do we want to remember, everything, everyone we've ever loved.
Of course, memory is a trickster...and that's part of the joy of this book, as the "Professor," defies death less through contact with flesh, than though memory and desire.
His magnificent pen enables him to transform the most scandalous subjects into true poetry; Thus, in this Memory of my sad whores, the simple description of a dilapidated brothel becomes a true poem, for the author has the good idea to tell us about the surrounding environment: the nearby forest, the Wind blowing gently in the little hair that his hero retains on his skull, the moist heat of this South American city that the narrator knows so well,...The main themes dealt with by Garcia Marquez in this short novel are old age and - as strange as it may seem given the title - love.
_Memories of My Melancholy Whores_Márquez, my dear, you are, without a doubt, the love of my life.
دیدگاه صمیمی و روشن و در عین حال، شدیداً شاعرانه ی گابریل گارسیا مارکز، همیشه من رو به تحسین و شگفتی وا میداره.
بین نویسنده های وطنی، رایج شده که هر کس بخواد دیدی روشنفکرانه و عمیق به زندگی داشته باشه، حتماً باید این دید تاریک و تلخ باشه.
مارکز نشون میده که میشه بدون تلخ اندیشی و بدون دپرس کردن خواننده، دیدی عمیق - و زیبا - به زندگی داشت.
تا جایی که حتا وقتی از وحشت از مرگ سخن میگه، شما رو با شیرین ترین و رنگارنگ ترین رؤیاها رو به رو میکنه.رمان رو میتونید از اینجا دانلود کنید:http://dl.yasbooks.com/roman/romane%2...
Τα υπαινίσσεται και μας προτρέπει να γευτούμε τη λύπη μαζί με τη χαρά του να είμαστε καθαροί, την υγρασία του δωματίου, με το όμορφο κορμί δίπλα που έστω για τον ύπνο, του ανήκει όλη η μυστηριώδης αθωότητα της ψυχής που δεν ανήκει στους άλλους.Κλείνοντας τα μάτια θυμάμαι το τρένο να κουνάει κάπως, κάποιον απέναντι να χαζεύει σε ένα φορητό και να διώχνω μια σκέψη παρά τη φαινομενική χαρά του σκοπού της γιατί το βιβλίο ήταν πιο θελκτικό από έναν έρωτα που είχε πάρει να σβήσει.
The book summary and blurb will turn many people away from this book. And yes, it is about a 90 year old man obsessed with a 14 year old prostitute. But that doesn't do justice to what this book is about, and it doesn't do justice to the brilliant writing of Gabriel Garcia Marquez. He didn't win the Nobel Prize for Literature for nothing. Really it's a story of love, and it's a story of a time and place that most of us can't truly imagine. The writing alone makes the effort worthwhile.
El sexo es el consuelo que uno tiene cuando no alcanza el amor.  Primer libro que leo de este señor, y debo admitir que no la pasé tan mal. Para mí este colombiano es uno de esos autores de los que no se habla ligeramente, y siempre leer alguna de sus obras más emblemáticas me parecía, en sí, una tarea titánica para la que no estaba preparada. El realismo mágico no me va mucho que digamos (incluyo Rayuela de Cortázar) así que admiro a mi cuasi tocayo de apellido desde lejos en general.La histor
Para mí este colombiano es uno de esos autores de los que no se habla ligeramente, y siempre leer alguna de sus obras más emblemáticas me parecía, en sí, una tarea titánica para la que no estaba preparada.
No sé cuál era el propósito del Gabo cuando escribió esto, o por qué lo escribió, porque me repugnó un poco, y aunque se hace hincapié en la parte de romance platónico, tampoco me causó ternura (POR OBVIAS RAZONES A VER) como este autor suele generar en sus lectores.
Prometo leer más cosas de él e interiorizarme más.(Y no sé por qué GR pone que lo leí dos veces cuando solo puse una fecha...
When he turned 90, that time had come, because that was the beginning of a new life at an age when most mortals have already died.I've never made a review with so many quotes, but Márquez speaks way better than I could ever do.Some parts of the novel were inspired by Yasunari Kawabata's House of the Sleeping Beauties and I was quite glad that I've read the Japanese story first, as the idea behind it was quite original and haunting.
Çok güzeldi, çok güzeldi, çok güzeldi.Marquez okumayı özlemişim. O kadar uzun zaman oldu ki yazarın tarzını unutmuşum. Aklım Yüzyıllık Yalnızlık'ın karmaşasında kalmış olacak ki bol betimleme beklerken sade bir kitapla karşılaştım. Derin anlamlara sahip yalın cümleleriyle huzur veren bir kitapla. Hayalet hissi veren kitapları seviyorum. Benim Hüzünlü Orospularım'da onlardan biri. Tuhaf bir belirsizlik havası var kitabın, her şey hem gerçek hem de değil. Satır araları okuyucunun hayal gücüyle istediği gibi doldurması için boş bırakılmış. 90 yaşındaki bir adamın hayatından kesitleri okumanın bu kadar keyifli olacağını düşünmemiştim. Marquez sevenler kitabı mutlaka okumalı. Ayrıca yazara başlamak için iyi bir tercih olacağını düşünüyorum.
" ليست السن هى ما بلغه أحدنا من العمر ، بل ما يشعر به " " الجنس هو العزاء الذى يلجأ إليه المرأ عندما لا يحصل على الحب " ها هو الساحر يخرج لنا من جرابه رواية رائعة - كعادته - وتحمل معانى انسانية كثيرة .
بعد أن عرف الكثير والكثير من النساء الذى لم يعرف معهم معنى الحب ..
عند بلوغه التسعين يكتشف المعنى الحقيقى له ..
وأن الرابطة الجسدية لا تغنى أبدا عن الرابطة السحرية المسماة بالحب .رواية انسانية توصف الرجل التسعينى ومشاعره بمهارة بالغة .ماركيز صاحب أفضل اسلوب سردى من وجهة نظرى ..
إلا عشاق ماركيز .
نام اصلی کتاب :  Memoria de mis putas tristesو یا به انگلیسیMemories of My Melancholy Whoresکه مترجم ( کاوه میرعباسی) از سر ناچار آن را به "خاطره دلبرکان غمگین من" ترجمه کرده است.درست تر آن " خاطرات روسپیان سودازده من" می باشد که جناب فطانت آن را از زبان اصلی ترجمه کرده اند.
و تنها میتوان نسخه ی الکترونیکی آن را پیدا کردداستان این کتاب همه جا بارها نقل شده است و دیگر نیازی نیست که من نیز آن را بازگو کنم.
Am descoperit ca nu sunt disciplinat din virtute, ci ca reactie impotriva neglijentei mele; ca par generos pentru a-mi masca micimea de suflet; ca exagerez cu prudenta din neincredere; ca sunt tolerant doar ca sa nu ma las prada acceselor de furie pe care abia mi le stapanesc; ca sunt punctual doar ca sa nu se afle cat de putin ma intereseaza timpul altora. Am descoperit, in sfarsit, ca dragostea nu e o stare a spiritului, ci un semn al zodiacului...
I cannot imagine such scene in my mind esepcially the sexual interaction between an old man and a very young lady.In this novella, Gabriel García Márquez, put you into deepest imagination while reading a very interesting and lonely letter of a 90-year-old man searching for a girl.
An old bachelor man is searching for a young virgin on his 90th birthday to enjoy his old body mind.
But the idea of an old man with a body that aches and wrinkly skin is having an intercourse with a young girl is unacceptable in my mind, even though I liked this book.
