https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77599.Death_of_a_Doxy
Orrie Cather is arrested for murdering a woman, and Wolfe--after polling Archie, Saul and Fred to find out whether Cather might be guilty--decides to take on the case.
The murder itself, however, isn't Wolfe's trickiest problem: he can only collect his fifty thousand dollar fee if, in addition solving the murder and springing Orrie, he can also preserve the good name of the wealthy executive who was paying for the murdered girl's apartment.This is a very enjoyable entertainment--particularly impressive when you realize Stout was seventy-nine when he wrote it.
A special treat: the character of nightclub canary Julie Jacquette, the only woman with the intelligence, independence and courage required to charm not only Archie, but even that old misogynist Wolfe.
I try to keep my review rated PG-13, so please do not expect any related pictures here - these are easy to find, so have something cute which has nothing to do with the story whatsoever, like a piglet:Archie Goodwin does the majority of legwork for Nero Wolfe who almost never leaves his house.
Not only he has to do something he hates (work), he is not expected to get paid for this or even be compensated for the expenses; not a good start no matter how you look at it.
Everything taken together - quirky new characters, good mystery, Wolfe's showing his deduction skills, and more personality of the recurring characters - add to 4 star rating.
I learned a new word, Doxy does not mean the little weiner dog. This was another addition to solving the murder intellectually.
The case is already a bit of a puzzle when it’s made a little more tricky by the addition of a silence clause – the sugar daddy of the victim will pay handsomely for his name to remain unknown.
At this stage of the series, Wolfe and Archie are well drawn characters, there’s a deep well of back story, and Stout is versed in crafting a story that has intrigue, a neat puzzle, well-staged set pieces, and nicely drawn characters.
Stout keeps the reader guessing as to the ending, which is a little ambiguous, though no less satisfying for that.
This is the third time I have read this book and I still stand by my original review.____________________________________This is a re-read for me since I have read all of the Nero Wolfe books but just can't resist going back for one more try.This is a fun book because Wolfe actually treats a woman, Jackie Jaquette, with respect and she is a nightclub performer!!!!.......a smart gal who calls him Nero and ends up in college with a little help from Mr. Wolfe's fees for solving a murder.
One of Wolfe's operatives ends up in jail accused of the crime but we know better than that.
Oh, Archie! What would I have done without you during those long rainy, snowy winters on Kodiak Island. The public library was my favorite stop on our weekly runs to 'town' from Chiniak. I would load up on Nero Wolfe books. Let this review provide my endorsement for the whole series. and if you can, read them in chronological order!
"The young princes had been dead for five centuries, and Wolfe had once spent a week investigating that case, after which he removed More's UTOPIA from his bookshelves because More had framed Richard III".  -- Archie Goodwin, in Death of a DoxyEnough said :-)
Stout, Rex. DEATH OF A DOXY. (1966). ***. I haven’t heard the word “doxy” since the early 1950s, which kind of surprises me at Stout’s use of it sixteen-years later. A doxy is a kept woman, a mistress. The doxy of the title is the key figure of the case, but we only meet her when she is lying dead on the floor of her luxury apartment – furnished and paid for by a sugar daddy. The body was discovered by Archie Goodwin. He entered the apartment to search for any incriminating evidence against Orri
A doxy is a kept woman, a mistress.
The doxy of the title is the key figure of the case, but we only meet her when she is lying dead on the floor of her luxury apartment – furnished and paid for by a sugar daddy.
Obviously, he didn’t want his relationship with the kept woman to come out and spoil his chances at marriage.
When Archie found the woman dead on the floor, murdered by being hit by a marble ashtray, he didn’t bother to search for anything, he simply made sure he hadn’t left any fingerprints and left the apartment.
As this was my first Nero Wolfe novel, I went in thinking this would be a more-or-less "normal" mystery novel.
It wasn't until halfway through that I caught on to the real flavor of the book - Nero Wolfe's eccentricity, Arhcie's snap comedy, etc.
Admittedly I thought the puzzle fell into place a little too easily, but I liked it all the same.I'm definitely interested in this Stout fellow and plan on picking up another of his books, too.
A classic. Nero Wolfe is always enjoyable, but I think Julie Jaquette really makes this one. It's nice to see that Wolfe's general distaste for women is not necessarily universal. (Other highlights include Minna Ballou and her wolfhounds and the epithon). Also, there's a certain amount of (likely unintentional) foreshadowing for the also excellent A Family Affair.
I always enjoy Nero, Archie and Fritz -- and this was a pretty good mystery as well. Nero was able to stay at home on this one, Fritz cooked several more exotic breakfasts and dinners and Archie was his usual man-about-town sarcastic self. Love them! Only have about 30 more Nero Wolfe books to go, but have trouble finding them.
I have all of Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe books :)
Perfect airplane book. Standard plot, but the dialogue made me laugh out loud literally five different times. I have missed Archie's one-liners.
I thought I had read all/most of the Nero Wolfe books but this one was new to me.
As always, I enjoyed Nero Wolfe's eccentricities and the quick wit of Archie as well as the banter between all the characters.
Stout allows for a slight deviation in the characters as Wolfe, who normally avoids women at all costs, actually is impressed by a quick-thinking nightclub performer and invites her to his orchid sanctum.
The plot centers around the defense of Orrie Cather, one of Wolfe's legmen, with the murder of a doxy (new vocabulary word for me) with whom he made the poor choice to become involved.
I am an unabashed fan of Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.
To start with, in this book, I had no idea what a "doxy" is.
Thanks to Archie I now know it is a "kept woman".
One of Wolfe's operatives, Orrie Cather, is the main suspect in the murder of a woman he knew.
Wolfe, Archie, and the whole team pitch in to find the real killer.
This is a typical Nero Wolfe book.
Archie makes wise cracks; Wolfe pontificates and ponders.
Wolfe determines who the real killer is, but without evidence the police can use, he uses his wit and cunning planning to reveal the culprit.
This is one of the best Rex Stout novels I’ve ever read.
Nero Wolfe’s longtime assistant, Orrie Cather, has been accused of murder and Wolfe decides that as a matter of honor he has to prove him innocent.
The case is very complex.
The woman was blackmailing Cather after finding out he planned to marry another woman, and to complicate things, she was the kept woman of yet another man.
This one will keep you guessing as Wolfe not only has to find out who really committed the crime but a way to make some money out of it.
This isn't the Wolfe novel you want to start with, since some familiarity with the supporting cast (I'm not sure why I'm trying to avoid spoilers for a fifty year old novel, but I am) really helps get you into it, but it is a good, solid late-series Wolfe story. This has the great Wolfe and Archie interactions I love. It also has Julie Jacquette, one of my favorite one-book characters; she's cynical about romance, largely uninteretested in Archie, and impresses the shit out of Wolfe.A good read, but only for those already familiar with the series.
Wolfe meets his MatchIf you are a lover of Rex Stout, the unapologetically erudite and apparently intellectually snobbish author of the boorish but extremely intelligent Nero Wolfe novels, then you will love Death of a Doxy. Possessed of a good plot, sound characters and an accurate depiction of the period in which it was written, this book will grab your attention and hold it, if for no other reason than to see Wolfe meet his match in an uneducated nightclub chanteuse. Enjoy, I certainly did!
Poor Orrie is stuck in jail accused of murder. Nero and Archie have no suspects. How are they going to get their colleague freed? This fascinating addition to the Stout collection is a fascinating look at really building a case. The reader gets to go inside the mind of Nero and Archie as they look at the case from all angles to discern motives and suspects and then eliminate them one by one until they are left with a murderer.
I find it interesting that, as I come to the last few Wolfe books that Stout wrote, instead of descending ever farther into formula, I find them full of new and fresh ideas. While there are certainly still aspects of the formula that has made the series so popular, there are also differences that really intrigue. Having read 42 of these books, it would be easy at this time to become tired of them, but instead I find them more readable than ever.
I just love the Nero Wolfe series.
You know, this has become another one of my top favorite Nero wolfe books. Julie is an outstanding character who manages even to impress Wolfe! Great ending as well.
This book has one of the great one-off Wolfe characters, Julie Jacquette. She is way too much fun: I kind of wish she'd been featured again!
Another Wolfe with a rather dark ending. This one has a great character in it--Amy Jackson aka Julie Jaquette. Great last page.
Good Wolfe, made great by the introduction of Julie Jaquette, nightclub singer and foil for Wolfe and Archie.
Another great Nero Wolf book. I really enjoy Michael Prichard's narration. A fun read, great play with the language.
Of all the intelligent sarcastic women in Stout's Wolfe series, Julie Jacquette is one of my personal favorites and she does not disappoint in Death of a Doxy. I loved her loyalty to her friend, and her street smarts were a wonderful foil for Archie's brand of dramatics. As always, Wolfe and Archie are one of the best detective duos in fiction. The story is really just a vehicle for more of their banter, but with characters like these, who cares?
But this little book (155 pages) is much more complicated than the blurb makes it sound.Once again, the rather large and set-in-his-ways Nero Wolfe stays at home and dispatches his minions, led by right-hand man Archie Goodwin, to do all the leg work and to haul witnesses and suspects back to the Wolfe residence on New York’s 35th street as required to move the investigation along.
But Wolfe and the available boys are still well up to their task.Isabel Kerr was a doxy, a kept woman, and there is no way she was able to pay the $300 monthly rent of the luxury apartment in which the body of this ex-showgirl was found.
In this one, Wolfe finds himself involved in a murder case when Orrie Cather, one of his sometime operatives, is collared for the death of a doxy--mistress or paramour to a rich man.
Wolfe starts out to solve the crime purely out of obligation to Orrie Cather (and with no fee in sight) at the end he finds himself faced with the puzzle of how to earn fifty thousand dollars--which he can only do if certain facts are not made public.
What made the book for me was the character of Julie Jacquette and her interactions with Nero Wolfe.
Has he set up Archie Goodwin, Wolfe's right-hand man to be the one to find her that way in her rosy bower, a love nest maintained by another man, called the Lobster by girls in the know - because he shells out for everything she had - get it?
"She took my arm and asked, "Where is he, Archie?" in a rich cuddly voice, and she kept the arm down the hall and into the office, but then she broke away, danced to the middle of the room and faced Wolfe's desk, let her handbag fall to the floor, and burst into song: 'Big man, go-go, Big man, go big, Talk big, act big, Lo-o-o-o-o-o-ove big!
