https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/387066.Hungry_as_the_Sea
The combination of solid plotting and engaging technical detail (who knew there could be such a thing?) makes for an eventful and thought-provoking read.The then-contemporary storyline covers salvage workers on the world's oceans.
Things build to an inevitable climax which makes use of some plot contrivance but nonetheless doesn't disappoint.
The villain in this one isn't quite as diabolical as in some of Smith's other novels but nonetheless I found this to be, as a whole, a well-plotted and enjoyable book that I'm glad I found the time to read.
Wilbur Smith is one of my favorite authors. He is also one of the most frustrating because I either tend to love his books (most of them) or just hate them (Sunbird? oh please!) I'm happy to say that this falls in the former category. The edition I just read is from 1978 and basically fortold the BP Oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. This book is full of adventure, intrigue, revenge and romance. One of the best adventure books I've ever read.
2.6Let me explain5 descriptions of weather -rivaled only by those in David Brin's Earth?4 descriptions of the movement of the sea. -1 descriptions of love interests' POV/gaze. yuck.AVG 2.6
I'll read anything that has storms and ocean-going salvage tugs.
But Smith writes really well about ships during storms; the salvaging of the ocean liner in the beginning is riveting.
The story revolves around the rivalry of Duncan Alexander (the bad guy) and Nicholas Berg (the good guy) for control, of Christie Marine and the attentions of Chantelle Christie, owner of the company and a large fortune.
Nicholas, meanwhile, has built his dream salvage tug.
Four stars for the storm scene in the beginning; one for the soap.Read Jan de Hartog or Farley Mowat instead.
Another great book from Wilbur Smith. This time about a man, Nicholas Berg, who owns a salvage company and rescues disabled ships at sea. The first rescue in Antarctica is unbelievable as is the last one in the Caribbean during a hurricane. His rival in all things, Duncan Alexander, is a real ass and you will rout for his downfall from the first minute he enters the pages. What a greedy jerk!I thoroughly enjoyed this around the world roller coaster ride of adventure and romance.
Wilbur Smith - Hungry as the Sea - UnabridgedRead By: Robert Gladwell (he sounds the worse for drink, rly!) Duration: 19:43Description: Nick Berg sets out to salvage a cruise ship stranded with 600 people in the frozen wastes of the Antarctic. winter 2012seven seasadventuretbr busting 2012filthy lucre “Life is a shipwreck, but we must not forget to sing in the lifeboats.” - Voltaire
A good adventure-thriller book by Wilbur Smith. The protagonist is a well-rounded hero who manages to fight against both natural elements and a fierce human enemy at the same time. The story also shows how a stormy ocean can challenge the structure of huge oil tankers.
My first Wilbur Smith book. Never looked back! A great storyteller.
Hungry as the Sea has all the action, suspense and romance a 400-pager can hold.
When Nick Berg accepts the challenge to save his own supertanker from turning the oceans from a big oily mess, he gets more than he bargains for.
He'll also have to fight off hurricane winds, oil slicks and a beautiful ex-wife who plans to steal him from his one true soul mate, the mega-babe of Miami U., Samantha Silver.
It even has a message about our enviroment, and may have predicted the tragedy of the BP slicks of a few years back.
Nick Berg is "right ahead" and "right on"!
This book totally surprised me. It starts off very technical, but interesting. If you ever told me I would like reading about the details of search and rescue and recovery of damaged oil tankers I would have said no way. It brings you along and without realizing you have gone from an interesting how to manual to a story and then you have to keep going. It was informative, thrilling and captivating. A must read for anyone who likes sea stories and a should read for land lovers.
Certainly confirmed my observation of the ocean. As beautiful as it is watching those waves roll into shore, never turn your back. You have to admire those who work on it. Their lives at risk everytime they step aboard a boat, no matter what size or destination. Solid read. Smith always delivers plenty of adventure with a strong male/female lead with a touch of romance and his obligstory ex scene.
he is close to losing the company thru lack of finances but then an opportunity arrives for salvage in antartica - one of duncan's ships this leads to him rescuing samantha, a young girl from the stricken ship and soon his feelings for her grow the plot unfolds as duncan builds a supertanker, from nick's original designs, but cutting corners to save money.
found the first 150 pages slow going as it full of engineering technicality + terms and shipping prowess that i had little interest in and no knowledge one loose end - why did nick not stop to look for more survivors after samantha or was the 4 min survival time up?
• HUNGRY AS THE SEA by Wilbur Smith, William Heinemann430 pps. 170,000 words, no chapters, broken by asterisks.A damn good yarn with romantic interest. Set at sea and portraying the trials of a salvage tug boat captain and shipping magnate fallen from grace and left by his wife. The hero meets his romantic partner when he dives into icy seas to rescue her after she tries to save the lives of the passengers of the cruise ship he is trying to salvage. The fight between him and the man who stole hi
170,000 words, no chapters, broken by asterisks.A damn good yarn with romantic interest.
Set at sea and portraying the trials of a salvage tug boat captain and shipping magnate fallen from grace and left by his wife.
The hero meets his romantic partner when he dives into icy seas to rescue her after she tries to save the lives of the passengers of the cruise ship he is trying to salvage.
The fight between him and the man who stole his wife and company is central to the story.
There is much about the sea, the vessels, shipping companies and pollution caused by oil.
This is my favourite Wilbur Smith book ... despite the fact that I get violently sea sick in real life, I love the story of adventure and romance on the high seas ... Nick is a modern day piratical figure and his heroic deeds deserve a movie ...
This book is amazing. It does start out slow but picks up the speed after the first 100 pages. It gives us the perfect mixture of romance and action. I strongly recommend this book as it is easily one of my favorite books.
While I'll admit to not being really crazy about Mr. Smith's more recent works, I have to say his early stuff is what got me reading. This book in particular sticks with me. This man knows how to tell a yarn.
The first book of Smith's I ever read. I loved it so much, I am slowly working thru his whole collection!
I was surprised I enjoyed this as much as I did considering that I have no interest in shipping salvage operations! It was well written, although the plot was a little predictable.
The author’s writing style is so vivid that I found myself exclaiming out loud in numerous spots; I could feel the frozen cold of a merciless ocean, and because of the stark memorability of the descriptions, I learned more about the high-stakes world of salvaging than I ever thought anyone could teach me.Nicholas Berg is at a crisis point as this book begins.
Ensuring that his crew doesn’t see his internal brokenness, Berg orders his salvagers to do everything possible to arrive at the disabled ship first, despite frozen seas and constant battles with merciless nature.Samantha Silver is a marine biologist who has gone to work for the passenger liner as a lecturer and primarily to befriend the passengers and help them draw closer to the nature scenes they crave.
This started off so well with an epic storm and battle for survival against the harshest seas and strongest winds. But then things quickly calmed and become much more familar and slightly predictable as greed takes over and the inevitable cutting of corners begins as Nicholas' design is paired down and economised. But it doesn't stop there, this of course leads to Nicholas' own family being put in danger and he has to race to save them. As ever, Smith's writing flows well and embraces the story completely keeping things interesting even in the face of a little predictability.
An enjoyable high seas romp, the whole cadmium/marine biologist & business/love usurper story lines are a bit corny. As is the jolly good sport overcomes sleazy businessman theme. Once the engineering defects in the ship are brought to light, the plot cruises to its inevitable end. I would have preferred the sleazy businessman to have docked the crude, pocketed the cash and gone on to wreak more socio-political havoc, as it would make the book more realistic.
Close enough to a four to give it one. I enjoy learning while reading and learned about tow ships and competing for money in the high seas and the danger involved. Sometimes too much information but many sub plots that kept this book interesting.
Wilbur Smith continues to amaze me with his versatility. Especially his excellent descriptions. I have read, to date, sixteen WS novels and have yet to find one which failed to keep me riveted to every word. I am determined to read many more. What a great voyage!!
Smith is a good writer, but this type of book is very predictable. We have the resolute man among men who battles Mother Nature along with human enemies and never ever gives up. We know from page one that he will triumph in the end.
Wow!!!I have read many ,many WiLbur Smith's books and each one fascinates me . I can't put them down. I loved this book and I will read it again and again.Judy Clement
Avvincente, coraggioso e interessante. anche per i non esperti, come me! Le relazioni, passionali, intriganti e a tratti mozzafiato, fanno da sfondo a delle scene strepitose, come il mare
One of my all time favourite books , a book i keep going back to read over and over
"Fantastic" - Wilbur Smith - Typical - "Awesome"!!.
In my memory they're real people, and that's high praise for the author.It's the female characters, the way Smith wrote women at the time, the way they behave, that's aged less well during the years when women as a social class came into their own power.
You just can't get past the fact that Samantha Silver is a Barbie doll with a PhD, while Chantal Berg (or Alexander, or Christy, as you prefer) is a Bond girl, so physically perfect and so bloody air-headed, she makes you wince.
It tells the story of a Nick Berg, forced out of a company by his ex-wife and her new beau, the new head of the company.
In compensation for his shares Nick is given a salvage company that is on the edge of going under.
He manages to save it, but only by making a large salvage claim from his old company.
He finds that his replacement (both in the boardroom and the bedroom), Duncan Alexander, is trying to gamble the company in hopes to save it, after he ran it to the edge himself.
