https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114145.Born_in_Fire
Mary Margaret Concannon (Maggie), the heroine of Born in Fire, makes fabulous glass art.
(well, it is described fabulously and in my imagination it is pretty much my sweetest dream)Maggie lives in the west of Ireland (another major love of mine) in a cottage near her childhood home.
While Maggie has had relative success with her artistic endeavors, she’s always hoped that she could make enough money to move their mother to her own home so Brianna could actually live her own life.
Besides the glass art and County Clare in Ireland, I love this book because of the romantic relationship.
No. But in terms of romance books, I just love it.
Originally published in 1994,the Born in Trilogy tells the story of the Concannon sisters, Maggie and Brianna.
Maggie wants so much to be an independent working woman, to see Brianna follow her own dreams, to do her father proud, and to handle her complicated relationship with her mother.
It might be lust in the beginning, but soon one of the characters, in this story, it is Rogan, that realizes he loves Maggie.
This is my first novel by Nora Roberts, I will admit to avoiding her books thinking they were just fluff - Eating my words, which should make some of you very happy.  "You'll be mine, and glad of it." "I'll be yours." She lifted her face to the wind. "And glad of it."  Born in Fire is the first in the Born In Trilogy about three sisters (haven't met the third yet) set in Ireland, woven with history and rich in character. Maggie is the oldest Concannon sister, she's bright, strong and very unique
Margaret Mary's father Tom is the shining light in her life, he's supported and encouraged Maggie her whole life.
When Tom dies on a rainy Ireland night making Maggie promise to follow her dreams and make sure her sister, Brianna does the same.
Maggie's beautiful glass works catch the eye of Rogan Sweeney, a are curator who's looking to showcase Irish artists.What first caught my eye during the first chapter was Miss Roberts ability to weave these beautifully descriptive words in such a different way.
Ireland......and romance......just perfect!  This is a reread and the following review is older but I am not going to change it because I loved it again!  It was a great read that I enjoyed very much! The story is set in Ireland and I couldn’t be more happy because it’s definitely a country I love to read about!Maggie is a young but lonely woman. She lost her beloved dad five years ago and her relationship with her mother is far from good. Actually, because of her mother she prefers loneliness a
The story is set in Ireland and I couldn’t be more happy because it’s definitely a country I love to read about!Maggie is a young but lonely woman.
She lost her beloved dad five years ago and her relationship with her mother is far from good.
Actually, because of her mother she prefers loneliness and she doesn’t want to marry.
She misses her dad and she mourns silently for the mother who doesn’t love her.
He knows that when a woman like Maggie gives her love, this love will last forever.It was a very good read!
Ha sido una de las relecturas más especiales que he hecho. Lo leí hace ya años, y aunque recordaba lo básico, todos los detalles de la historia de Maggie y Rogan se habían perdido con el tiempo. Y no solo ha sido especial reencontrarme con ellos, sino que lo he hecho en inglés (el primero libro que leo de Nora en inglés, debo añadir) y vaya cambio (¡a mejor!). Casi parecía que podía escuchar el acento irlandés de los personajes al leer los diálogos. Sin duda, uno de mis libros románticos favoritos. Siempre volveré a las Concannon.
Often that is just what going back to a book that I already read and loved means to me.
As I share a love for Ireland with  Nora Roberts, this book seemed to fit the bill.
Great, just like all of us.
I have read and enjoyed them all.
They are strongly interconnected and you should read them in sequence, besides in the second and third installments the protagonists of the previous books are very present.
I highly recommend Born in Fire and the whole trilogy!
I decided to read books that have forever piqued my curiosity since I was kid: I would see these books line the shelves at the library, on and on.
And yes, this is the type of book where you read things like HIS LOINS WERE ON FIRE and HE RAVAGED HER.
Because I believe that even in books I personally find terrible, there's always a hidden gem that surprises you, like this one: "His heart bled a little for the woman.
All I can say is, my Nora Roberts curiosity has been painfully satisfied and now whenever I see someone with one of her books, I will know what they're reading.
I don't usually read books that were published before I was born, but I feel like once I read one series of an author, I have to read all of the others as well.
but oh SO WONDERFUL ride.The explosive story of Maggie and Rogan is the tale of when scorching fire meets calm water, chaos meets order.We are introduced to the glass blower Maggie in a heart wrenching introduction to the character, and a parents' death that is expected yet agonizing.5 years later, she runs her life with an independent streak, surviving with her sister Brianna who owns a B&B; laden with bitter and unhappy mother.Enter the art connoisseur and agent Rogan, who wants to take her precious art and expose it to the world.
Sorry that is what happened.2.I am sure, pretty positive the lover, Rogan Sweeney, was attractive.
I am sure he was this hot dark-haired looking man, but for the life of me only thought of Sweeney Todd.
Sorry Nora, not your fault there.3.
I don't know how I would describe a sexual scene, but I don't think I would describe a horse.
I am sure I am the only nerd you read this and thought of Star Wars at the same time.Good things:1.
Possibly, I will read the other two books.
If anyone reads this book, please tell me your thoughts.
The heartbreak of her father’s death and the bitterness towards her by her mother, who blamed Maggie for ruining her life, Maggie, unable to trust anyone, except her sister Brianna, retreats into her own studio, making her glass sculptures when and how she wants.Rogan Sweeny is a sophisticated, gorgeous is the owner of an international art gallery that supports Irish artists and when he first sees one of Maggie’s work, is determined to sign her up.
She might not trust Rogan but she sure knows that she wants him but in her terms and she will not apologize for what she believes in.Rogan is one of those males that you just fall in love with.
Quizá en los próximos libros de la serie vuelva a aparecer la pareja y cambie de opinión sobre Maggie.Seguiré con "Nacida del hielo" porque la hermana de Maggie, Brianna, me ha parecido un personaje muy interesante y creo que su historia de amor puede ser más profunda que esta.
"Nacida del fuego" es buena novela romántica contemporánea, muy bien escrita, con un protagonista masculino perfecto (de esos que ofrecen amor incondicional) y con una protagonista femenina que a mí me ha parecido un poco fría.
Another great book by Nora Roberts and can't wait to get my hands on the next book.
I love Maggie's stubborn character.
She is a strong person but with a good heart even with a mother who's main purpose is to make her life a living hell but no matter what she is determined to keep her promise to her father to care for her mother and sister.
Maggie is a great glass artist who does her glass from the soul and never saw the real value of her work until Rogan Sweeney, a gallery owner, sees Maggie’s work and is determined to help her sell and show her worth but more becomes of their relationship.
A nice 3.5 for this book. The ended just ended and it was really disappointing. I wanted more but that made me realize that I liked the book (because I wanted more). However, I think the setting was what kept me interested. The narrator on this audio book is outstanding so it made me feel like I was really in Ireland. Loved that part. So this might be a so-so book that was made better by the narrator. Regardless, it was pretty good. I'm rambling. Long day.
This had apparently escaped my "reread all the Nora Roberts" binge from a few years ago, and this is one of my very favorite of her series books. The relationship between Maggie and Rogan is so combative--in a good way--and the competency porn is off the charts in this one. The art scenes!!! It is enough to make me regret my complete lack of artistic ability. Glad I spent some time with this series again. It's really good.
As the author describes the sights and scents around Maggie’s bike ride, I felt like I was experiencing a piece of art.
Who knows what it was, but I felt a lovely, emotional fulfillment, with that bike ride.“Born in Fire” is the first book in a 3 book series.
I gave 2 stars to "Born in Ice" and 3.5 stars to "Born in Shame."CAUTION SPOILER:I’m quoting a section of the book, to give readers a sense of Maggie’s insulting style.
On page 49: Rogan offers to manage and sell Maggie’s glass sculptures.
You’ll get fifteen percent.”	“I’ll get thirty.”	“Plague take you, Rogan, for a horse thief.
What can I say for Nora Roberts that millions of readers do not know already!
SHAME ON ME!) and it will certainly not be her last.This was a story about family relationships, dreams that die and dreams that come true, love for the art and fighting with inner demons, all set in a magnificent county in the west of Ireland.
Don't get me wrong, I love my heroines being feisty, but there are times when a woman should know when to just pause and take deep breaths.
And here comes the Petruchio of our story, Rogan Sweeney, a man in love with art in every possible form and - oh yes!- with Maggie as well!
Assim, há que compreender que não é uma obra que agrade todo o tipo de leitores, mas que consegue cumprir muito bem o seu propósito para quem gosta do género.Como já referi também noutras opiniões, este livro não se enquadra na categoria de livros brilhantes e complexos.
No entanto, se há coisa que a autora faz muito bem em cada livro que escreve é a caracterização das suas personagens.Em Herança de Fogo - o primeiro volume da Trilogia da Herança - ficamos a conhecer a história de Maggie Concannon.
I just don't know what exactly makes me love and adore this author so much but I can't seem to be able to do otherwise.
I just feel so exhilarated while reading her books, which is funny because for too long I was reluctant to pick one of them as everybody else seemed to crave her work so badly.
I simply can't stop reading her books now.Born in Fire is an amazing story.
If passion and romance is what you like you will love this story as sparks don't seem to be able stop blowing everywhere between this 2 main characters.
I got a late start, as you can see.I've never much cared for contemporary romance and until I began the In Death series last July, I had never read Nora Roberts.Speaking of the In Death series, I found quite a few similarities between Maggie Concannon, the heroine of Born in Fire, and Eve Dallas.
I would like to know more of Maeve's POV, and for this reason, I will likely read the other two books of the series.Rogan, however, was not nearly as interesting.
If you love books with substance and an engrossing story line with well-developed characters, I suggest you ignore this book's existence.
Although I have yet to open it up or indeed see it in real life form and not just an image upon a smudged laptop screen, I can confidently say that I would feel the same.
Northern Lights was worse and the story line was much like something I wrote in fifth grade whilst under the effects of Phenergan during a bout of horrendous chicken pox, except worse.
I love novels, even films, that have artists in them.
Doesn't matter if the artist is the protagonist.
And this book just captured my heart.
It's been long since I've read a contemporary romance seriously...
And I love Sparks.
I mean I have ten of her books in my shelf-all of them in series.
Just like Maggie, who's also too stubborn, so smart and so not want marriage..
Lately, my reviews became just a mere reflection of myself, of how I find myself in every book I read.:) :) :) Off to read the next in the series.
Review to follow.
I thought this book was a really sad book but also really good book.
Para quem almeja um dia percorrer o mundo, a Irlanda caracterizada neste livro é um destino imperdível!A personagem principal, Maggie é uma mulher determinada, rebelde e explosiva, com um temperamento volátil que confesso que no início me deixou menos agradada.
Com esta personagem, a autora espelha concretamente o que acontece a quem se agarra aos ressentimentos durante toda a vida.A componente romântica neste livro é bastante previsível, adquirindo encanto pela riqueza das personagens.
Com momentos intensos e explosivos, assim como outros mais ternurentos e amorosos, acabamos por nos apaixonar pelo fogo que se ergue entre estas duas personagens!
Written in the mid-90s, this book is a big step up from Roberts' O'Hurley novels, despite nominal similarities (mainly in the pseudo-shiftless, Irish father).Maggie Concannon isn't the kind of heroine that normally appeals to me.
Fortunately, he has a humbler, softer, more caring side to him that comes out when he can see that his more forthright methods would endanger the very things he wants to accomplish.So I hadn't thought I'd end up caring much about this novel, even if I was never truly tempted to simply stop reading.
When I read and re-read a book, it's almost always going to get a 5 or 4 star rating, or else why re-read?
Maggie has a dreadful relationship with her hardened, mean-spirited, caustic of tongue and tone mother and watching them dance around each other rings so true.
She's a gifted glass artist and he's the empresario of elegant art galleries.
His marketing ability will allow her art to reach the world and oh, the struggles between the artistic and business temperaments are epic.
Set in Ireland and Ireland and its tales, ways and people are a character in the book.
Me ha costado, pero al fin di con un libro de Nora Roberts que me enamorara por completo. Quizá, en realidad, no había conseguido hacerlo porque esperaba demasiado, y cuando bajé las expectativas pude disfrutar de su estilo; además, en esta historia me he sentido muy identificada con la protagonista, cosa que no me pasa a menudo, de modo que ha sido un libro redondo. Ahora quiero leer la siguiente entrega de la serie y buscar otros de sus libros porque creo que al fin hemos conectado.
Me ha gustado mucho, mucho, mucho.Es adictivo y se lee de una sentada.Fuego, romance y una prota muy fuerte :)
The family angle with Maeve and Brianna interested me the most and I wish more time would have been spent exploring that, but it was clear early on in the book that the romance between Maggie and Rogan would be the focus.
I liked Rogan (he came off as a workaholic but nice Mr. Darcy-type), but I found Maggie a little frustrating.
This book in general had all the annoying fairy-tale aspects of the romance genre, like the hot guy who is also super rich and the gorgeous heroine who looks better in a shirt and jeans than other women do in evening wear.
