https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52090.Eichmann_in_Jerusalem
Here's an example of what I consider a misleading statement about the book (the misleading part is bold), from Michael Massing's October 17, 2004 article in the New York Times:...Eichmann rose to become the senior Nazi official in charge of deporting and transporting Europe's Jews to the death camps.
''To a Jew,'' she writes, ''this role of the Jewish leaders in the destruction of their own people is undoubtedly the darkest chapter of the whole dark story.''First, Arendt's treatment of Eichmann is hardly "solicitous," a strange word indeed, making me wonder if Massing and I read the same book.
But this was a moral question, and the answer to it may not have been legally relevant.I am tempted to say that Hannah Arendt followed Eichmann’s trial as an impartial third party whose aim was to view things in the light of a relevant objectivity but it would be too bold a claim given my superficial knowledge about the concerned subject matter.
The ‘banality’ however, whether that of a person or some invisible evil force can’t be dismissed in its entirety when one reads the following words:
Brilliant and terrifying as ever.Some partial reactions, which somebody else has probably written about, but I'll repeat here anyway:--The idea of the "banality of evil" - that is, ordinary people who do evil things as part of a larger apparatus, is compelling.
But is Eichmann the best example of this?
Hence Eichmann should hang.
He was, in his own words, an 'idealist', or willing to give up his own morals for a greater cause - that is, the Nazi project of state-sponsored genocide.
He lived in an echo chamber, incapable of understanding others.--In this way, what Arendt finds is even more terrifying than the watered-down version of the banality of evil.
From a marketing standpoint, “banality of evil” is solid gold, the politico-historical equivalent of “show me the money!” It has kept Arendt’s Eichmann in Jerusalem relevant and in print since the 60s, and there is no indication the book or the phrase is going anywhere.
Indeed, the bulk of Eichmann in Jerusalem reads like any other nonfiction book about the Nazis.
Eichmann in Jerusalem carries a lot of baggage with it, which I suppose is the reason people continue to read it, despite its literary shortcomings.
There really is no part of this that doesn’t quickly sink into a horrible kind of absurdity.The problem with the holocaust is the sheer scale of it makes trying to hold it in your head comparable to trying to understand the universe, you can feel yourself sinking into insanity.
The thing that this book makes terribly clear is that simple bureaucratic processes can be used to remarkable effect in normalising the unthinkable – in fact, you can commit genocide on an unprecedented scale if you have people worrying about train timetables and the supply of gas rather than where the trains will go and what the gas is for.
What has come to light is neither nihilism nor cynicism, as one might have expected, but a quite extraordinary confusion over elementary questions of morality—as if an instinct in such matters were truly the last thing to be taken for granted in our time. I've been entertained by my fair share of WWII/Nazi/Holocaust media, a glut in the marketable masses of reality's intersection with fiction the never fails to rear its head every year. Of course, that's the US for you, with its isolation and c
Eichmann's trial by sheer happenstance touches on, amidst so much more, the defining of "crimes against humanity", genocide versus "administrative massacres", the history of anti-Semitism and subsequent conflict between the Jewish understanding of pogroms and the world's views of crime and punishment, and the limits of current laws of warfare, and indeed the very terms of "justice", in the face of World War Two. Here, the trial in Jerusalem faltered in the face of a completely legal indictment and subsequent explanation of such, as did every other trial of WWII war criminals and lesser collaborators.
We just saw the movie  Hannah Arendt , and it is extremely good - possibly the best thing I've seen this year. Margarethe von Trotta's direction and script are excellent, and Barbara Sukowa is terrific in the title role.
In it, Arendt struggles with three major issues: 1) the guilt and evil of the ordinary, bureaucratic, obedient German people (like Eichmann) who contributed to the attempted genocide of the Jewish people, 2) the complicity of some jews in the genocide (through organization, mobilization, passive obedience, and negotiations with the Nazis, 3) the logical absurdity the Eichmann and Nuremberg Trials, etc.
In this book (and the original 'New Yorker' essays it came from) Hannah Arendt isn't going for easy, cliché answers.
She isn't asking rhetorical or weightless questions.
It came to mind on reading Hannah Arendt’s Eichmann in Jerusalem; A Report on the Banality of Evil.
What she gave us in the end was an account that did much to obscure the real Eichmann, even so far as setting aside altogether the anti-Semitism which formed such a part of his character and political outlook.
Eichmann in Jerusalem is a book that comes close to justifying the monster who was a man, close to excusing him of all practical and moral responsibility.
Only one judgement remains: as a book Eichmann in Jerusalem is banal.
A truly disturbing look at what motivates individuals to follow orders. While there are some who may disagree with some of the conclusions that Hannah Arendt draws I still think this is a groundbreaking study in the connection betweeen conformity and criminal compliance.
La visione e la lettura dei numerosi video e documenti del procedimento che iniziò l'11 aprile 1961 a Gerusalemme dopo il clamoroso rapimento da parte del Mossad, l'11 maggio 1960, del direttore del Dipartimento Affari Ebraici IV B 4 delle SS rifugiato in Argentina – dell'organizzatore prima dell'espulsione degli ebrei dalla Germania, del loro trasferimento a Est e poi dei trasporti verso i campi di sterminio da tutta l'Europa occupata – la lettura proposta dai curatori tedeschi, dicevamo, si differenzia infatti dalla diffusa interpretazione della filosofa tedesca che seguì (ma solo in parte!) l'avvenimento epocale nella capitale israeliana per il New Yorker e vide in Eichmann "la banalità del male".
Even though Arendt didn’t want to make it a philosophical or legal treatise, it makes a few bold philosophical and legal claims, the most controversial of which is the banality of evil.Eichmann was in charge of transporting the Jews, first for forced emigration, and after the implementation of the Final Solution, to the death camps.
He put millions on those trains, knowing fully well where they were heading and what fate was awaiting them.Without trying to lessen the magnitude of his crimes – and this is a very important point – what Arendt wants to add to our understanding of Eichmann (and our understanding of the nature of evil) is how utterly banal he was.
He’s constantly complaining about how he didn’t get promoted as high as he wanted.
Bu tamamen benim yüzümden oldu, yoksa kitabı gerçekten büyük bir beğeniyle okudum.Kitap, Arjantin'den İsrail ajanları tarafından kaçırılıp İsrail'e getirilen ve yargılanıp idam edilen Yahudi katliamında rolü bulunan -kimilerine göre büyük bir rol kimilerine göre ise küçük- Adolf Eichmann'ın yargılanma sürecini anlatıyor.
Adolf Eichmann, pek çok Yahudinin ölümüne dolaylı olarak (kimseyi direkt öldürmemiş; ama öldürülmelerine bir şekilde neden olmuş) sebebiyet veren bir adam, bu doğru; fakat yargılanmasında ciddi sıkıntılar var ve bunları da okuyucuya sunmuş.
Suçun işlendiği tarihte suç olarak düzenlenmemiş suçlardan ötürü yargılanıyor (soykırım suçu o tarihlerde kanunda yok) ve bunlardan ötürü bir ceza veriliyor.
When Israel in 1960 kidnapped Eichmann from Argentina and put him on trial, the hope of Prime Minister Ben-Gurion and the prosecutors was to apply justice for the Holocaust to a key Nazi leader behind the Final Solution.
His participation in the machinery of genocide as a matter of course and with little sense of guilt is the core of her tagging her book title as the “banality of evil.” His thinking in aphorisms, overall motivation in careerism, mental juggling of self-justification, and sincere belief that he was a friend to the Jews all lead Arendt to conclude that this man was almost incapable of true thinking or moral judgment.
Even within the Nazi bureaucracy, Arendt argues that refusal to participate in the Final Solution was not subject to severe punishment.
20.yy'a bıraktığı birçok travmatik kalıntı, katliamlar ve halen bir şekilde devam eden sert etkiler günümüz açısından da öyle ya da böyle geçerliliğini korumakta ve günümüz insanını bir şekil de düşünmeye ve süreci tüm çıplaklığıyla anlamaya zorlamakta.Hannah Arendt'in "Kötülüğün Sıradanlığı-Eichmann Kudüs'te", Hitlerin ve Nazi Almanyasının parlama dönemini, antisemitist fikrinin oluşumunu, Holocaust'un logistiğinden sorumlu olan Adolf Eichmann'ın Arjantin'de yakalanması sonrasında Israil'de yürütülen mahkeme kayıtlarını sunan belgesel bir kitap.
Sonuç :Hannah Arendt, Holocaust ve Nazi Almanyası baş kahramanlarından Eichmann'ın 1961'de yürütülen davasından yola çıkarak hem Eichmann'ın hem de Nazi Almanyasının psikolojik haritasını son derece düşündürüce şekilde okura sunuyor.
Of course, this is really too general an assessment of bad things happening to really help anyone understand the various circumstances which seem to influence the existence of certain historical tragedies such as the Holocaust.
Which makes Eichman in Jerusalem one of the most controversial statements made on the nature and motivating force behind evil men and their violent actions in the history of writings on the philosophy of ethics.
Adolf Eichman, a meek salesman who eventually rose to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel of the Schutzstaffel truly was a perfect subject through which Arendt could examine the nature of evil.
Eichmann in Jerusalem by Hannah Arendt is a thought-provoking, if dense, history of the Adolf Eichmann, the major organizer of Hitler's "Final Solution" -- the extermination of every living European Jew. Coupled with some meditations of a first-rate thinker and author on politics, morality, and the gray line that exists between law and justice.
She makes a powerful case for the justice of Israel's capture of Eichmann -- the secret service kidnapped him in Argentina, and tried him for genocide of the Jewish people by a nation where he had committed no crimes.
It's from this book that we get the famous -- and controversial -- phrase "the banality of evil." And it's true: Eichmann was much like a middle-manager, a logistics man, concerned most of all with his own position and title within the Reich, even while genocide occurred all around him.
The focus of this book is the trial, but since Eichmann oversaw the transport of Jews from several different countries, Arendt provides a unique window into Europe during World War II.
She also provides a unique window into the mechanics of the Third Reich, which is to say, the mechanics of evil.
In true Arendt style, the writing is concise, each sentence crafted beautifully, the subject matter studied from all sides.
In some cases, she even comes to Eichmann's defense against the things he had been accused of that he hadn't done.
To her, it was very important for him to be tried for his own crimes, and his own crimes only, which is a very hard thing to do considering the complexity of the German bureaucracy and the enormity of the Jewish (and other peoples') genocide.
Required reading for anyone interested in the Holocaust, its conditions, perpetrators and, as well, its victims.
Such an action must have seemed rational, in their universe.In the Postscript to this book, Arendt points out that this report of the trial, when first published in The New Yorker, caused an outcry ascribing to her attitudes which she does not possess, and attributing to her words she did not say: "Even before its publication, this book became both the center of a controversy and the object of an organized campaign…The controversy began by calling attention to the conduct of the Jewish people during the years of the Final Solution, thus following up the question, first raised by the Israeli prosecutor, of whether the Jews could or should have defended themselves.
But Hitler alone did not accomplish the deeds that would later make the Nazis the catchword for evil.
One department, the R.H.S.A., was divided into four sections.
It was his office's job to deport the Jews to the killing centers.
How they were rounded up and what happened to them at the killing centers were handled by other departments in the vast machinery of the Nazi Government.
Starting from this fact, Arendt creates a fascinating meditation on evil and the character of the men who carry it out, and the implications this has for the concept of criminal justice.While I found her picture of the vast bureaucratic operation that was the Final Solution to be compelling, the major difficulty I had with the book was in her writing.
History to listen to as I bake chicken pies.Brilliantly narrated by Wanda McCaddonNatural follow up to Hunting Eichmann by Neal Bascombe (I see the 'add book' has broken now!) I am sure that there were many who would have loved to slap that smirk off his face.For a superb review, I can do no less than point you towards Lobstergirl: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
In secondo luogo voleva verificare la possibilità di un nuovo tipo di crimine e di criminale, studiandone gli aspetti giuridici e valutando la capacità delle istituzioni giuridiche di affrontarli: anche qua si rese conto che, fosse un diritto degli ebrei di processare il gerarca (il rapimento, roba illecita, si poteva legittimare in quanto Eichmann era un apolide e Israele aveva acquistato il diritto a processarlo essendo diventato, politicamente e geograficamente, il territorio in cui erano stati commessi i crimini, intendendo per territorio il complesso culturale condiviso da un gruppo).
Read for the Back to the Classics Challenge 2018Category: Read a book that scares you "It is true that the totalitarian state tried to establish these holes of oblivion into which all deeds, good and evil, would disappear, but just as the Nazis’ feverish attempts, from June, 1942, on, to erase all traces of their massacres—through cremation, through burning in open pits, through the use of explosives and flame-throwers and bone-crushing machinery—were doomed to failure, so all efforts to let their opponents 'disappear in silent anonymity' were in vain.
It would be of great practical usefulness for Germany today, and not merely for her prestige abroad but for her sadly confused inner condition, if there were more stories like Schmidt’s to tell.
but her book is not a court, and she uses the "in court we can only judge one person, not a society" argument to avoid dealing with larger historical and social questions (*why* in Germany?) She has a good reason for this: claiming that 'all are guilty' erases important distinctions between, e.g., Eichmann, and a Hausfrau just trying not to get imprisoned by the SS.
Therefore analyzing societies would erase the distinction between Eichmann and our Hausfrau.
It is not a philosophical text about the nature of evil.This book is about the politics of the trial of Eichmann and more particularly the real politic of the Holocaust.
Arendt makes the case quite convincingly that when the Nazi's schemes were opposed outright as they were in Denmark or where confronted by the Italian authorities plain dishonesty and occasional moral refusal to go along ('to participate in this policy is against the honour of the Italian army')their will disappeared.The other surprising fact is the Nazi's relationship with the various national Jewish authorities.
Her idea that "banality" and thoughtlessness, relying on the routines of bureaucracy lie at the root of evil had a profound impact on my thinking.
One can still see the basic truths of her book operating very day.The latest method to avoid accountability seems to be to claim one is "too busy" to be brought to trial.
This tactic, used by Bob Bennett, in an effort to keep Clinton from having to answer charges in the Paul Jones case, is now being used by members of the Bush administration to avoid having to face possible charges for ostensible war crimes.That kind of thinking brings a whole new meaning to "banal".
The judges were never able to completely understand the nature and motives of Eichmann itself - an important task for a judge in order to create a fair conviction.The problem with this fact was exacerbated due to the fact that Eichmann was just so frightently plain, one of many and not the perverted sadist that we wanted him to be.
This raises the problem that today, or in the future, another human being can be born who will again do the terrible things that Eichmann has done, and not be able to understand the scope of the evil that he is creating.In the end, Eichmann was - no doubt - guilty.
I generally dislike subtitles, but this one, “A Report on the Banality of Evil,” is where the action is.This phrase, which generated so much controversy, appears only on the title page, and once in the text, in the postscript.
Possibly in response to that comment, Banksy purchased a banal oil painting in Housing Works, a thrift shop.
Banksy then oil painted in a Nazi on a bench enjoying the view, signed it, and titled it “The banality of the banality of evil.” He then donated it back to Housing Works, which put it on an auction site for charities.
Το κειμενο της Arendt στην ουσια προκειται για μια βαθια μελετη των βασικων παραμετρων της δικης, που παρουσιαζονται με την μεγιστη δυνατη αντικειμενικοτητα, ψυχραιμια, ακριβεια, ειλικρινεια και ολοκληρωτικη αποφυγη καθε συναισθηματισμου(η ιδια ηταν Εβραια).
