https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53004.The_Maids_Deathwatch
Do you dust, darling? Well, that's not good enough. We're s'posed to be lemmings and praise Genet. Role-playing (The Maids) was hotcha topic in the 50s, how tiresome today. But so is Genet with his queer brawls. Having just seen the $300-a-tic thingie w Blanchett-Huppert, lemme say : see Chabrol's La Ceremonie.
Introduction by Sartre establishes that “for Genet, theatrical production is demoniacal” (10), inclusive of “illusion, betrayal, failure; all the categories that govern Genet’s dreams” (id.).The first text, The Maids, concerns two servants who plan elaborate rebellions against their master, via acting out the murder.
We see that one servant feels a time coming, she says, “when no longer a maid, you become vengeance itself” (43), which is some sort of lumpenized reaction to oppression, seeking not justice through class confrontation but rather individuated vengeance, which perhaps exceeds the norms of necessity and proportionality in the desire to kill the master.
I would be tickled to learn that the fearsome Genet shied away from profanity for some reason.• The age of criminal qua proletarian hero cum vicious, living negation seems like a long, long time ago.• For what it's worth The Maids struck me as much the more interesting play.
I suspect Sartre felt the same way; in his introduction, he only mentions it in passing, by way of drawing out some element of The Maids.• Sartre's introduction is significantly Sartrean, to wit: "Translated into the language of Evil: Good is only an illusion; Evil is a Nothingness which arises upon the ruins of Good." This Sartrean aperçu is the most memorable line in the book, including both of the plays.
"The Maids" excited me with its phenomenal (submerged) representation of BDSM dyke roleplay and its class critique. Sartre's gender analysis in the introduction, however, can fly a kite. Jean-Paul's examination of self-punishment and consciousness in "The Maids" sparked my interest in brief spurts, only to be undermined entirely by incomprehensible claims about "real" and "unreal" masculinity/femininity in Genet's plays.
I liked the Deathwatch better than the Maids, but after reading Sartre's introduction (I read it in the end on purpose), I was amazed by Sartre's great mind and his understanding of Genet. Very interesting work. It is my first time to read Genet.
"سولانژ" و "کلر"، دو کلفت خانه، در نقش یکدیگر و در نقش خانم خانه، تمامی آرزوی "دیگری" بودن را، در احساس توامان عشق و نفرت نسبت به شرایطی که در آن زندگی می کنند، نمایش می دهند؛ شرایطی در فاصله ی میان آنچه هست، و آنچه آرزو می شود.
هیجان زندگی در پس پشت ماسک های متفاوت توسط یک بازیگر، در نقش های دیگر، به مراسمی آیینی می ماند، در حضور دیگران!
نمایشی از عشق و نفرت توامان کلفت ها نسبت به خانم خانه، در غیاب شوهرش که در زندان است...
Can I still call myself sex-positive if I say that Sartre's intro essay is masturbatory at best?The Maids was incredible,Sartre's analysis was indulgent and disorienting,and you won't be missing anything if you skip Deathwatch.
While their mistress is absent, maids Solange and Claire engage in daily sadomasochistic fantasies in which they enact the death of their employer.
The sisters’ perverse codependence and ability to evoke feelings of hatred, pain, and evil are both disturbing and confusing.
While this is not an enjoyable read, it may provide insight to dramatist Genet’s psyche, himself a lifelong criminal who received a life sentence that was later commuted.The second play, Deathwatch is equally dark but ,again, reveals the depths that paranoia and imposed loneliness can drive an individual to sink into even while attempting unsuccessfully to attain some sense of empathy with another doomed soul.
I'm just not impressed. The Sartre Introduction is long, rambling, and boring. The plays are boring as well. There are a few interesting lines in The Maids, but the plot is silly. Deathwatch makes more sense, but there aren't any specific lines that are notable. For plays driven by dialogue, I'd recommend Cat On a Hot Tin Roof and Glengarry Glen Ross over the two here.
3 Stars for "The Maids," which is dated, but still makes for interesting and actor-friendly theatre. (I just saw a very good production of it at the American Players Theatre in Spring Green WI.)1 Star for "Deathwatch," which is just tedious, like a bad overly talkative 1930s prison drama.
"my spurt of saliva is my spray of diamonds"
Read The Maids
The Maids is a very compelling two person play about mad sisters who work as servants for a rich woman.
I think Genet is making points about levels of power in master-servant relationships, also in husband-wives relationships, but the play is disturbing and visceral enough that those points get subsumed in a horror film.Deathwatch was a little hard to understand, even though I read it twice.
Once again, Genet seems to be concerned with the hierarchy of power relationships, but beyond that I have no idea what he's trying to say or why he wrote the play.
But basically it's not the kind of play I particularly enjoy.
So while I appreciate the play and Genet's work as important theatrical influences, I wouldn't say I genuinely enjoyed reading this play.
I understand it and can appreciate it, but I don't particularly enjoy it, I would probably never choose to teach it, and I would probably be fine if I never read it again or saw it performed.I did actually see a teleplay version of The Maids a while back, without really knowing much about Genet, his work, or the characteristics of his theatre.
I don't know why I always subject myself to re-reading "Deathwatch" when I pull this collection off the shelf.
It's just awful.
It almost feels like a parody of Genet, although he wrote it himself.
Meanwhile, "The Maids" is one of my favorite plays of the 20th century.
A dizzying ritualization of oppression, Genet's second one-act manages to be both ornate and raw, comedic and cruel.
Anyone who's played servant for any length of time will immediately get why the plan to off the mistress is sound, even before we've met her royal highness.
Is there a higher accolade than genius?
just finished "The Maids" because it was first, but I actually started reading this because of a combination of having just read the Patti Smith bio and "Deathwatch" being the name of a song I like a lot which I am assuming is referencing the second play in this edition. "The Maids" was my first dip into Genet and I'm digging it. update: I don't think Deathwatch the play was what Deathwatch the song was referencing. It also wasn't as good as The Maids. Still, interested to read some of Genet's novels.
I saw The Maids performed once by the Towson State theater department. I saw them perform an Ionescu play too. & maybe Neil Simon's (?) version of "Awakenings"? A pretty good selection of plays brought to us by Paul (?) Berman (sp?) of sd theater department. Strange to remember b/c I have so little respect for the university or, even more so, the neighborhood in the suburbs of Baltimore. The Maids is a powerful play about the covetousness & vicarious living of people forced into demeaned social positions. Genet is, of course, a 'master' at depicting such things.
Genet is brilliant, what can I say. In these two plays he offers a scathing critique of the bourgeoisie, at the same time as identifying the ways in which we all are shaped by our work, and our working conditions. And the context is whirligig (as Sartre would call it) – criminals and saints, love, desire, murder. If you like Genet and haven’t read these I do recommend (I tend to think Maids is better than Deathwatch, incidentally).
The plays were definitely really good and I would love love love to see them performed, but I think one of the things that amused me most was Sartre's introduction. He was of course an admirer of Genet's work and he and a few influential others kept the man out of jail for the latter part of his life because they said Genet was a genius, but from the introduction it totally seems like Sartre's favourite thing about Genet was that he was gay. So avant-garde and anti-establishment! Oh, Sartre.
Both plays were intense and uncomfortable, presumably as they were meant to be. Both end in death. The constant switching of role playing characters - again, in both plays - is fascinating to read. I'm going to see a performance of The Maids this week with Cate Blanchett and Isabelle Huppert. Should be compelling!
My deepest regret so far in life is that I haven't sat down in an audience to watch a Genet play. "The Maids" is such a classic work from the 50's (?). Also one can't avoid this book in an used bookstore. Every (decent) used bookstore has this title in their Drama section. Get it! Genet is one of the great voices in literature and everything else.
Deathwatch is Genet's first play. But the real gem is The Maids. Its just fascinating -- its metacommentary on role-playing, the imaginary world conjured by the actors, and how the acting subverts these illusions.
fascinating stuff, but who the hell knows what's going on? i should probably read the sartre essay on genet at the front of the book, but i'm anxious to get to part 2 of the "Death of Captain America," so that might have to wait.
I did this play in HS and I was the understudy for all three roles as well as the stage manager. To this day I find many parts of it to understand but I love it for reasons of nostalgia and because the language is poetic and fresh, even now.
A very interesting take on gender roles, and how people mirror each other, draw from each other, change on the energy of each other, and have no real one identity of their own. Great identity plays. Sartre's introduction is very insightful.
A brilliantly cruel, hard view of society.
A classic - looking at it for Madshag over the weekend, so I revisited it this week. Once upon a time it was my most successful POD project ever.
Review pending.
[Cheating because I've really only read The Maids]
I think the authors personal history is extremely interesting.
