https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/671560.The_Bone_Doll_s_Twin
Nari wrinkled her nose, trying to place the raw, unpleasant odor."Although Flewelling plays a bit with the early narrative--the first couple of chapters from the point of view of the wizards, Iya and Arkoniel; the third from a hill-witch, Lhel; and the fourth from Nani, the witness to the birth and wetnurse--the majority of the remaining story is from Tobin's, with occasional forays into Arkoniel's thoughts as he works to protect Tobin, the future queen.It's a great premise, and quite honestly, I think I picked it up partly to see how a fantasy book would deal with gender identity/assignment.
It deals in a modern way with gender roles, both by putting women in positions of power and by questioning the sexual identity of the protagonists.That said, while the series showcases some of the best features of epic fantasy, it also suffers from some tired, overused cliches: heavy handed use of prophecy, young protagonist with a future as the saviour of civilization, generic worldbuilding with warring medieval kingdoms, generic villains / evil kingdoms.I am not going to write a synopsis, as I was more interested in the characters than in the actual plot.
okay people. i see what books y'all add when i post 'em.. you're not fooling me! and i know all your biases against fantasy. but i gotta tell you, that lynn flewelling is pretty fucking gifted.she writes super detailed, complicated characters who have lots of internal and external struggles.these books focus on a girl who was turned into a boy for survival and how that "survival" happens and her gender dysphoria when she is "turned back" into a boy among other things.i couldn't stop reading.yum. highly recommended. give 'em a chance. :)
I loved this story! I was swept away by the setting, the characters and the adventures of a young boy finding his way in a complex world and learning his true nature and purpose. This is a beautifully written, dark and compelling fantasy that explores gender roles and identity.
I really like this trilogy. It sounds weird when you read the synopsis, but it's really good.
I don't mean didn't know it in the sense of the The Ill-Made Mute, but truly didn't know it, and most people didn't know it.Flewelling starts to answer such questions in this book.
It's strange because there is not much "action" in the traditional sense of the word in the book.
One author who constantly forces judgement about her character on her reader is Laurell K.
Anita is always right.
Or think CSI: Miami where Horatio is always right (and why I stopped watching.
What happens makes one supposedly good character rather untrustworthy, if not outright hated.
A good challenging book.
The Bone Doll's Twin is fantasy at it's finest. It's creepy and thought-provoking. It handles gender issues in a way that isn't at all prurient. My only complaint is that it ends quite abruptly. It seems to me that the three volumes of this series should probably be one book. Fortunately, I can download the second volume from Audible in about 20 minutes and won't have to wait to start it.The narration on this particular audiobook is excellent.
The Bone Doll's TwinORThere Are Probably More Awkward Ways To Save a Kingdom But I Can't Think of Them NowThis is not a happy book, but for all the darkness, all the discomfort inherent in it, it's not a hard read.
Just kids, prone to mistakes and cruelty without even thinking about it.And two, she doesn't beat us over the head with the gender tensions.
The most obvious gender tension is when Tobin is taught, by action more than words, that Boys Do Not Play With Dolls.
And this tension keeps cropping up because dolls are also a strong theme in the work.
Another really excellent, dignified fantasy series. But other than the big 4 (Martin, Hobb, Flewelling and de Lint), I haven't found more great authors. Well, yeah, Tolkien, but come on. The movies are so much better--(kiss my -ss, Tolkien die-hards, I don't have time for the listing of every familly name of every Hobbit in the Shire)
Originally posted at FanLit. http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...I finished listening to the audio version of The Bone Doll’s Twin, the first in Lynn Flewelling’s fantasy epic THE TAMIR TRIAD, around midnight a few days ago.
His father and the magicians who help him must mold Tobin into someone worthy to take the throne someday.These days I don’t have as much patience as I used to for long epic fantasies involving prophecies and boys coming of age, so I was pleasantly surprised to find myself enjoying The Bone Doll’s Twin so much.
This is set in the same world as Nightrunners, but five hundred years in the past. It came about from a quick reference in  Luck in the Shadows . A Skalan sailer was explaining the tradition that, "As long as a daughter of Thelatimos rules, Skala shall never be subjugated." But of course there was a usurping uncle who isisted that the prophecy was misunderstood, that as long as the daughter of Thelatimos ruled....and claimed the throne, then quietly killed all the girls in the royal family, exce
. A Skalan sailer was explaining the tradition that, "As long as a daughter of Thelatimos rules, Skala shall never be subjugated." But of course there was a usurping uncle who isisted that the prophecy was misunderstood, that as long as the daughter of Thelatimos ruled....and claimed the throne, then quietly killed all the girls in the royal family, except one, who was hidden in a rural estate and kept disguised as a boy.
The Bone Doll's Twin tells the story of that girl, Tamir, and how very much more complicated and dark her story was.When King Erius took the throne after the death of his mother, Agnalain, no one raised much fuss.
The Good:I love Ki and Tharin, and I think their characters are charming, likable, and whenever they are in a scene, I don't want the scene to end.I like the fact that the major horror in this book is done by the "good" people trying to save their country.
I feel bad for him, but I don't love him.I feel like the book never properly explains why the witch couldn't have used magic to hide the child, rather than turning her into a boy.The author needed a strong editor.
And given how long it dragged out, I can't believe the author ended on a cliffhanger without a single story line sewn up.
3.5 stars. A good start to what looks to be an above average fantasy trilogy. I am a big fan of world building and the world that Ms. Flewelling has created is well-thought out, complex and believable. Add to that an original twist to the standard coming of age warrior tale, quality writing and some good characterization and you have all the ingredients for a great story. This one ends on somewhat of a cliff hanger so be ready to go right into the second installment. Recommended!!!!!
I was wrapped up in the powerful gothic ambiance (ghosts, skeletons, guilt, sorrow, ambition and mysteries: what's not to like ?) as well as in the story of the lonely child growing up in this dark atmosphere, surrounded by danger and lies, a pawn in a plot he/she knows nothing about.
A bit like in life, you know ?
The balance should be obvious, but...I can only recommend the read of this masterfully written, subtle, gripping, and profoundly human novel.
5 Stars, no doubt about that.Warning : It's the first part of a trilogy and can't really be read as a stand alone.
After getting pushed in to reading it (with recommendations from more than one person) I found myself pulled into this unique story.
The book doesn't try to make a statement, it is an interesting story that pulls you in and makes you feel for the characters but it does make you think....and that for me is the sign of a good book, something that makes you think without making you feel that is what is trying to do.
As with any of Flewelling's books you need to have an open mind to gender and same sex relationships.
Anyway, so, this book, I had great expectations and I am pleased to announce to all and sundry that my expectations were FULFILLED.Lynn Flewelling uses the framing technique to tell this story and does some very interesting things with time that can, at moments, confuse the hell out of in by which I mean that you are unaware if you are in a flashback within a flashback or just in the first flashback...you get my point.
(that sounds weird) - okay, let me just say I love it a LOT when things are logical and the fabric of the world created makes sense and is solid instead of constructed flimsily and borne on the backs of other much better fantasy novels.
An interesting premise and a compelling read. I knew it would end with a cliffhanger, and it ended almost exactly the way I expected it to. Normally that would be a sign of a predictable story, but that is not the case here. Instead, Flewelling gives the reader an ending that both fulfills expectations and creates new ones. I need to read a few other things before I can continue this series, but I will definitely read the rest of the trilogy.
This was a pretty good book, but there were parts where I lost interest in the plot. I definitely want to give Flewelling another chance because I liked her writing, and I think it was simply the plot of this book that did not keep me completely engaged.
Although slow paced, this one is a beautifully written book. It is also the best audiobook I've listened to so far.
9/10Dark, yet very readable. Wonderful world-building; well-drawn, three dimensional characters; magic, mystery, plots, and ghosts—plenty to like. A little slow in parts, but I assume some of that is due to setting up later events.Excited to read the rest of this trilogy and will be on the lookout for the author’s Nightrunner series.
Wow. This was a lot darker than I thought it would be but it was so good. I had all the feels while reading about Tobin and his early years. I almost cried (which I never do) over the heartbreak and sadness surrounding Tobin's family and the repercussions of the events surrounding his birth. There's a somewhat cliffhanger ending and I cannot wait to see what plays out in the next installment.
There is no grand adventure for the book itself; instead it fills its pages with mini, time-related fragments to create a larger backstory type work; it introduces the primary and secondary characters (their pasts, personalities, relationships, dispositions, and locations), setting the stage for the next portion of the story.
I had a hard time feeling for the characters and being interested in them aside from their relation to the history of Skala.
This is not a reflection on Mrs. Flewelling's writing, as it was very well written, merely a preference toward the pacing of her other works (books with a stand alone story and secondary plot that oft becomes primary for the following work).
The Tamir Trilogy is truly a `proper' trilogy - that is, a single story, broken up into three volumes, as opposed to a series of self-contained, interconnected books.
An act of darkest magic binds the twins together, concealing Tobin's true gender with that of her brother.
That bleak mistake leaves the future queen tormented by the angry ghost of her death brother, drives their father into near-exile, and sets their unwitting mother on the path to madness and death.
As readers who know the secret, the very subtle cues as to Tobin's true gender are as clear as they are heartbreaking, even while it remains completely conceivable how others can remain oblivious.
R. Martin and the actress Felicia Day are both recommending a fantasy series, it’s not a bad idea to give it a try.
Actually, it’s a wonderful idea.
The characters feel very human, each of them has lots of potential, they all face different struggles, make different hard choices and it’s just nice to be around them while they do what they do.
And while the novel is set in a fantasy universe, for the most part it actually feels like a well-written ghost horror story.
Strongly recommended for any fantasy fans that also enjoy ghost stories and complex characters!
I promised a good review after every book I would read.
And up till now, It has remained a promise.
I don't know what's got into me lately, but my system seems to be deteriorating.
that was a 2.' See what I mean?Now, I picked this book because of the blurb at the front cover by George RR Martin saying "thoroughly engrossing".
And you know what?
This book has all the elements one could look for in a really good fantasy book.This deserves a place right in between Robin Hobb and Jacqueline Carey's in your shelves.And oh yeah!
A lot of books use the trope of disguising a girl as a boy but this book takes that theme and twists it cruelly.
With the killing of a newborn infant to save his twin sisters life it creates a very different dynamic to the book that I love.There are a lot of characters to love in this book.
There are a lot of villains that aren't straight up bad guys and there are some of the good guys that are far from perfect.
I like the shades of grey for all the characters.
The Bone Doll's twin is a very good fantast with some very weird parts to it. I enjoyed this book for its different plot points however the pace of the book is something that really never picks up during the first half of the book. A very different book than most epic fantasies which deals with gender perception, The Bone Doll's Twin is a book that promises a very different read and fulfills that promise.
Yes, everyone is spooked but when pleasant distractions are introduced later, the tension is largely diffused and remain so to the end.A story about a girl in a boy’s skin could be potentially thought-provoking.
(I mean, plenty of girls who identify as female abhor those activities, and plenty of boys who identify as male enjoy them).
(Conversely, plenty of girls who identify as female enjoy those activities, and plenty of boys who identify as male abhor them).
The writing is decent and I hear book #2 has a romantic angle.[* Tamir Triad trilogy (The Bone Doll’s Twin #1, Hidden Warrior #2, The Oracle’s Queen #3) is set 600 years before The Nightrunner series in the same world]
A good beginning book of a trilogy.
4.5*Dark magic, necromancer, girl who raised as a boy, ghost…Yeah I like it!
