https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19388.The_Portable_Voltaire
So this Portable Voltaire book was quite a nice surprise, not only as it was a careful selection of key works and miscellaneous thoughts and ideas but also because it allowed me to discover a clever, witty, sarcastic, funny philospher...
For, was it not Voltaire, along with other two key French figures, who with their work, brought a whole Revolution of thought and in history?Voltaire is funny and at the same time, precise on its critique.
This selection shows that he was always opposed to fanaticism, to religion and to ideas that made men ridiculus to the point of avoiding any critique and failing to see truth.
And anyone who hates intellectual imposture with all their heart will necessarily regard Voltaire as a model, and the age of Enlightenment which he defined a golden one.
But unfortunately these prejudices lead to disastrous outcomes, both in intellectual and moral life.
In intellectual life, prejudice deludes one into thinking that the LONGER an opinion is held, the BETTER it is.
It arose because, when the 18th century looked upon history, and saw nothing but morally disgusting acts of war, animated by petty interests which, with the remove of time, are not even intelligible, they realized that ANTIQUITY IS NOT A CRITERION.
Some outstanding parts to me:"The soul", he said, "is a pure spirit which has received in its mother's womb all metaphysical ideas and which, on leaving it, has to go to school to learn over again what it knew so well, and will never know again".p 433One of the greatest benefits you can confer upon mankind is to trample under foot superstition and fanaticism; not to allow a man in a gown to persecute others who do not think as he does.
The point is-shall the mud-heap belong to a certain man called 'Sultan' or to another called, I know not why, 'Cesar'?
I will be honest I have not read the whole dictionary or all the letters. The letters are just to pompous. Candide is a really great read. Voltaire is definately worth the time to read especiialy if you like Vonnegut, Dostoevsky, Sarte, or Camus.
Voltaire is beyond description. There will never be another writer anything like him. Reading his work is the pursuit of a lifetime.
Here was a conundrum of a man: champion of tolerance, he hated religion (except he admired Islam!); promoter of virtue, he indulged in sin; revolutionary, he deified Frederick of Prussia, and; advocate of mankind, he abhorred the common man. On balance he was a despicable hypocrite with an engaging and perceptive wit. This selection of his works shows his obvious talent and his latent egomania. I dislike Voltaire, but admire his writing.
When asked why he quotes in Greek, the scholar responds that "one should always quote what one does not comprehend at all in the language one understands least." While these three stories can be read many times for enjoyment, the selections from the "Philosophical Dictionary" are not particularly insightful.
I had pulled this off the shelf with the intent of just rereading Candide,and found pulled back in to this book. Voltaire's wit and relevancy stand the test of time, though for anyone unfamiliar with his work, I wouldn't recommend sitting down and writing this compilation of essays and non-fiction in hte order presented. Start with Candide and Zadig and then work your way back up front tothe philosophic essays or correspondence.
I haven't read the entire works, simply the translation of Candide done by Richard Aldington. It proved to be an incredibly easy and accessible read. Not something I expected from such an old book. I must say I prefer the excitement and hilarity embodied in Leonard Bernstein's stage musical version of Candide, but the book has its moments.
I recommend Candide in particular, the satirical story of a group of travelers fleeing war, and finding more and more senseless suffering as they go, accompanied by someone who seems to have pondered the problem of evil and come to the conclusion that this must be the best conceivable world as a result.
Great allegories, and short stories. I particularly like "Zadig" as a fictional character in one of Voltaire's allegories. I stopped at three stars solely because I rushed through the last quarter of the book do to a slight loss of interest, and interruption by another book I had on my list, and was a bit desperate to read, hehe.
really good intro by famous rapper redman. there's lots of good stuff here, one of my favorite parts voltaire's poem about the lisbon earthquake that he wrote bc because he thinks such a tragedy needs to have some art dedicated to it rather than philo text walls but till can't help sticking in page long footnotes.
edited by ben ray redman in 1949, this is a very good collection of voltaire's work: shorts, essays, letters and his philosophical dictionary. i have a few other publications of voltaire's work that aren't viking penguin but have not yet compared the translations. i generally find, though, that viking penguin translations aren't that bad.
What a strange character--slipping in and out of theism, becoming Frederick's pet, whining about his poor health and imminent death for 40 years… and how did "Candide" ever become more famous than the far superior "Zadig"?
Ah Voltaire. I found this in my room the other day. The front and back are still relabeled with a different title. After encouragement from my college friends, I changed it to the much more appropriate "The Wandering Voltaire".
Voltaire's 'Philosophical Dictionary' is one of my favorite reads and I personally enjoy 'Zadig' more than 'Candide', but it's nice to have many of his works in one book... So it's easy to refer to time and time again.
If you like Kurt Vonnegut, read Voltaire! He's amazing! The philosophical dictionary is as hilarious as it is informative. All his fiction is great, but probably his best works are the lesser known ones.
Wittiness at its best! Voltaire could be categorized as the king of quick thinking and come backs. I enjoyed reading this book but my favorite section is the Philosophical Dictionary, which shows how clever he was and why people enjoyed his company at the court of Versailles.
What can one say. The man was way ahead of his time. His insight, his humor, his lifestyle were all apart from what we think of as the society in which he lived. Also recommend the biography by Davidson.
I remember picking this up at the university library and I had to take it home with me. Good stuff. Was not able to finish the entire thing though as I had to return it to the library. I haven't found a copy of that book anywhere...
Voltaire is funny. That is enough for me. He also has a critical eye that exposes absurdity and societal problems. Like Ambrose Bierce's "The Devil's Dictionary," the passages from "Selections..." are amazing nuggets of satirical craft that are a delight to read.
Feisty and funny. Not sure about the politics.
It was very good, I am glad I read it.
Candide and Zadig are two of my favorite stories. They are quick reads and very entertaining. Voltaire's philosophical dictionary is also worth reading.
Great insights into one of the leaders of the Enlightement and a courageous critic of the religious aristocrats of the time.
this is my "while eating dinner" book. he is light hearted, funny, and a great way to calm down my day.
all Voltaire is worth reading and also, his Dictionary
This book contains some of Voltaire's classic novellas and short stories, including Ingenu and Micromegas, which are two of my favorites (besides the always popular Candide).
Some amazing stuff and a lot of highly esoteric essays that I will likely never absorb.
I love Voltaire but I don't think he would get no child left behind in its full magnitude.
