https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/585576.Tales_From_the_Vulgar_Unicorn
I remember them as being good, rollicking, adventure-fantasy fun, so when I found this volume at the back of my archive boxes I had an 'ooh' moment and decided to give it a read, out of a nostalgic whim for some good, simple fun.Sadly, the book is dire.
His story in this volume is an example of the worst kind of hackery, of the sort that would have shamed even John Jakes, and the rest of the anthology struggles to raise itself above his level.
I read this book many years ago in high school and remember loving it. There are some interesting characters in these short stories and in the whole Thieves' World series. One of my favorite stories from that series is in this book, and contains a plot twist that I remember fondly to this day.
Like most anthologies it's a mixed bag.
The character of Smhee was worth the read alone (devotee of a foreign cult who smears himself with butter and is hunting a wizard!?).Goddess by David Drake - Another good one.
An interesting story about avenging a family’s honor and a creepy local cult.The Fruit of Enlibar by Lynn Abbey - Not my favorite story, but it's short.
Good story.Vashanka's Minion by Janet Morris - Story about Tempus.
Tempus is Vashanka's hand in the world.
It is interesting to note the portrayal of Tempus in this story as opposed to the Janet Morris story.
The continuing stories of Sanctuary and its inhabitants...Take a bunch of fantasy writers, give them a city and tell them to populate it.Thieves World takes place in the city of Sanctuary, but don't let the name fool you, Sanctuary is not the kind of city where you want to be wandering alone, or even in a group during nightime OR daytime...
do not go into that alley!Thieves, Assassins, Barbaric Warriors, all around Bad People are mostly what populate this city.
I used to have many Thieves Guild books but gave most of them away in a previous tidying fit. Since then I have picked up copies whenever I (rarely) find them. I honestly don't know if I like them now for themselves or for nostalgia reasons but they are good old fashioned fantasy from before it became popular with mainstream readers. My favourite character (I think) is Hanse, though I find Tempus interesting too. I wonder if these characters will ever catch the eye of film-makers?
I'm digging this series so far. The old school fantasy thing is so much more satisfying and interesting than most modern examples, prone as they are to simply repeat tropes and stereotypes, and focus on other things than plot. We'll see how it goes, because there's a bunch of these books and they're bound to start sucking a bit.
Much the same as the first and preceding anthology set in the city of Sanctuary, 'Thieves' World,' 'Tales from the Vulgar Uniform' is a bit uneven but generally entertaining.
The stories do often seemed rushed and unpolished; none could be considered examples of stylish writing (even those by 'names').The concept of the 'shared world' continues to provide plenty of material for our authors to play with, and some of the overall themes associated both with the setting and the characters are moved forward — enough so to interest one in moving on to the third in the series.
Some stories good, some stories merely meh. There are definitely contributors who I'm glad I haven't read more of given their style and prose in their particular story. One more note- the stories, even the good ones, sure feel depressing. None of the recurring characters have much in the way of redeeming qualities, and their lives seem bleak and joyless.
sub par.
В случая Робърт Асприн е съставител, подхванал няколко от колегите си и са създали… това.В Сенкчуъри, общо взето, не е препоръчително да се разхождате насам-натам след залез слънце – по уличките бродят не само съмнителни личности, но и всякакви незнайни и страховити създания; Затова пък винаги можете да поседите в кръчмата „При Еднорога”, да опитате виното и да послушате някои от най-странните, вълшебни и ужасяващи разкази за незнайни божества, смъртоносни магии и невероятни приключения…Нека видим какво се крие между страниците на сборника:1.
Между другото, книгата е едва началото на огромна поредица от творби, които изграждат тя и Асприн, за Сенкчуъри, Светът на Крадците и т.н., писани както от тях, така и от доста други автори.
This one was decent - not as good as the first but that had a whole newness to it this one lacks, plus that awesome Cappen Varra mobius story - but this is still good and is gradually building out the world more and more. No single story stands out, but all of them add up to a fairly fun experience.
The first two stories were fun dungeon crawl classics, the rest of the stories were kind of a jumble before Shadowspawn showed up at the end, and when a couple of Hell Hounds try to get the best of Tempus.
Shadowspawn and Tempus are memorable characters no matter what they are up to, but even those stories seem overly edited for length, with conclusions that seem forced or rushed.Still, it's a fun bit of nostalgia, as I haven't read these stories since high school 30 years ago.
Life in Thieves' World is pretty dismal, and even the "Lighter side of" story by Robert Lynn Aspirin can't help but refer ironically to how dire conditions are in these collections.
Like many other reviewers, it's been a long time since I've read this series (in my case since about 1990), but (at least so far) it holds up reasonably well.
While all the tales herein are individual short stories, you can see that some of them exist either primarily to introduce a new character or as what seems to be more like the first chapter of a serialized novel.
Thought: I had forgotten jus how important a part religion plays in this series, as well as the number of proxy god-fights.
Other Thought: I don't like the character Tempus any more than the last time I read the Thieves World books.
Book two in the Thieves’ World series.
Philip Jose Farmer and David Drake’s stories are set in a magical pastiche of the Middle East, akin to Aladdin, where women are second-class subjects, etc., mostly unrelated to previous and subsequent Thieves’ World material.
Andrew Offutt’s “Shadow’s Pawn” tries to rectify that tale, with some success, and Asprin’s final story makes another effort at eradicating the last of Morris’ mess.
As I wrote about the first book, this is a fantastic idea, and there are some gems of fantasy writing here, but it needs more cohesion.
Offutt.GIVE THEM SANCTUARY One seedy town, the meanest, most dangerous in all the worlds of fantasy.PLUS The right to use (but not to use up) each other's characters and a mighty will to out-do each other's stories.THE RESULT?
TALES FROM THE VULGAR UNICORNThe second volume of a unique anthology series that has captured the imaginations of fans, critics, and authors from coast to coast.
(Volume One, THIEVES' WORLD, spent three month on the LOCUS SF Bestseller List!) Join us-but be warned: Keep one hand on your money and the other on your sword; in Sanctuary they play for keeps.
One of the Thieves' World series of books, which collect short stories from a range of science-fiction and fantasy writers.
The interesting aspect of these stories is the common setting (the City of Sanctuary) and the overlapping of characters and events.
At it's best, the series provides multiple viewpoints in very different styles of events that impact each character's life to varying extents.
At this point (I am writing this well after the time I read the books), I cannot differentiate among the early books in this series.
Note also, that this is the second reading for the first eight in the series.

The world's top fantasy writers spin stories and loop the loop with each other's characters in Tales from the Vulgar Unicorn, the second collection in this unique anthology series set in the amazing city of Sanctuary, where you can enjoy the quiet elegance of Ambrosia House; sample bizarre pleasures at the House of Whips; sip ale in the Vulgar Unicorn, and listen to some of the most strange, dangerous, magical and deadly tales ever told...
I read this back in my late teens, a time when I was far less discerning about my reading material. That said, even then I was appalled by the repeated, casual references to rape of all varieties, in particular child rape.I know there are those who revere this series, but it was very definitely not for me.
This second Thieves' World book seemed more cohesive than the first one. Still, I felt the lack of any progression; it's a series of good stories that don't really go anywhere. I know that's the nature of an anthology of this type but it reminds me why I don't read short stories much. I also wish it was a bit more fun; it's all fairly grim throughout.
As with any anthology, some of the stories, characters, and authors I liked better than others. All of them are pretty good though, and some of them are great. Thieves' World has introduced me to a lot of my favorite fantasy/sci-fi authors.This is one of the few series that I actually love.
Not as awesome as the first tome, but still pretty decent. First story way to long (but still decent). Second story has one of the greatest dungeon / catacomb exploration segment I ever read in the fantasy book. Rest of the book I almost forgot already. If you get a chance read the second story and skip the rest.
This second book in the Thieves World anthology series was more enjoyable than the first. I remember reading it several times over the years and it is just one of those books you remember laughing at. Very good stuff!Danny
These stories are definitely edgier than a lot of the sci-fi/fantasy out there today. These tales are not for children - definitely adult material. Unfortunately, I didn't enjoy them as much as I'd thought I would (a friend of mine loved them more than any other series).
The trouble with the Thieves' World anthologies is that the authors chose to set the stories in the seediest rundown dump of a city imaginable. It clearly became a contest between the contributors to see who could come up with the nastiest character to place in the rotten setting.
I felt like this book was more of a mixed bag than the previous book. Least favorite was the one about Tempus by Janet Morris. I had a hard time getting through that story but the rest of the book made up for it.
This book is better than its predecessor. It's a sleeker, smoother read. My only complaint is that this book seems to have cleaned up the city a little bit. There was a rawness that was missing. And maybe that rawness is what made this book a smoother read. *shrug*Still, a fun series!
Sexist, racist and, most damming of all, boring. One would assume a series titled "Thieves' World" would contain some, you know, thieves.
The stories in this installment were on the darker & rambling side.
Wasn't really that compelling to me in any way. I wonder why I read the second book.
