https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95406.Preacher_Volume_2
Hello Grandma!A little of Jessie's childhood has come back to haunt him and a good little spanking, too. I love getting more of Tulip's history, too, but it's not quite up to levels I want just yet. Hit-Girl, eh? Just fine. :) But grandma the bible-thumper? Wow, what a nightmare she is.Good thing we can put that thing in the coffin, now. What I really liked most about this volume was the guest appearance of god. :) He sounded so scared... or was that really him? Who knows!?! Well... maybe me because I'll be continuing on right away. :)
The first half is the revelation of Jesse Custer's twisted and blood soaked past, a family tree steeped in abomination and cruelty, abuse and murder.
Custer's ex, Tulip has a much more defining role in this volume.
It's the last days of Sodom and Gomorrah in 20th century America and Jesse Custer is all tangled up in the thick of it, whether he wants to be or not.And oh yeah, he's still got that bone to pick with God, now more than ever.
She's psycho religious and wants Jesse back to try and force him to work for her, I think?
Her henchmen were uber-creepy too.The second story was about Cass and Jesse looking for the heroin dealers who gave Cass's girlfriend the drugs that killed her.
We've got a team called the Sexual Investigators, named Bob Glover and Freddie Allen, who come in and out of the story.Then, the "bad guys" who represent the Grail: Hoover and Featherstone and Herr Starr:He has a funny part, actually, that involves the Sexual Investigators, but he's after Jesse too.
It's like everybody wants to use Jesse for some reason or other.
One might think that, having escaped the clutches of the family from hell (metaphorically) in Angelville (literally), Jesse (AKA Preacher) and Tulip would be happily nesting somewhere yonder, unless, of course, you've been paying attention to what actually goes on in these books, in which case you'd be well-aware that there's always more bedlam at hand.
Jesse, meanwhile, is in the sights of Herr Starr, a disfigured head operative of The Grail, an organization whose mission, activities, and corpulent leader are beyond me to describe.
When Cassidy claims to be Jesse to save his buddy's hide, Preacher's gotta mobilize and infiltrate the Grail's HQ, Masada.
Bog te molov'o, kako sam se samo zabavila čitajući ovu drugu knjigu :DBtw, Kasidi je car! :D
But instead of one albino monk, there’s a crazed German trying to stage manage his own apocalypse, a pair of self-styled ’sexual investigators’, hedonists having an orgy that a porn star would run screaming from, and an evil old grandmother from hell.
Jesse and Tulip run into big trouble when they meet up with Jesse’s family.
We also meet Grail operative Herr Starr, a one-eyed German nut job who is quietly seizing control of the plot and thinks that Jesse Custer’s Word-of-God ability would fit nicely into his plans.
In the first we know the story about Jesse, his family, his first meeting with Tulip and his terrible childhood.
And the character of 'Lord Jesus', a young and perverted man, always looking for new excess, highlights the worst side of a decadent society.There are also some bizarre elements, as the couple of sexual investigators or other hilarious situations (view spoiler)[like a misadventure where stumbles the main villain, Herr Starr, looking for a whore, but finding 'someone else' (hide spoiler)].The artwork is always accurate, and gives the right effect to the story.
If you liked the action scenes in the previous book, you will not disappointed from this one.I'll continue with this series, because I was hooked and I wonder what Garth Ennis will do in the next book.
The first story introduced us to some characters from Jessie's past and it gave us some backstory, answering questions like why is Jesse a preacher?
I really enjoyed the first half of this volume.
I didn't enjoy the second story as much but I still liked it.
The second half introduced us to a group of religious people called the grail and they want Jesse, it also introduces us to some other characters but I can't remember their names.
Tulip was also a lot less annoying in this volume, I actually started to like her and I hope she continues to be awesome and not whiny!
2.5 stars by averaging the two major arcs, and I usually round up, but this left a bad taste in my mouth.The first story with Angelville was the kind of pulptastic awesome I expected when I read the first book.
lots of overexplaining, lots of stereotypes of sexual depravity to tell us why we should hate the bad guys, and a disturbing reliance on anal rape jokes.
Because it's hilarious if bad people get raped, apparently.I'm still totally on board for reading the rest of this series, it just hit some major hate buttons for me with that last story.
In Until The End of the World, we learn a great deal more about the past of both Jesse and Tulip.
Both are placed in a position where escape seems unlikely, therefore, what better time to unburden their past to one another?
Ennis also gives a little more of an explanation to why Jesse is so desired by a secret religious organization and Cassidy jumps back into the story, playing a bigger role this time around.Until The End of the World is a spectacular follow up to what we're presented with the first time around.
Hopefully it doesn't peak early, I have a hard time believing that anyone is capable of maintaining a streak of greatness for this long without a bit of a dip.
5.0 stars. Garth Ennis is a brilliant writer and all of his talents are on display here. Original, intelligent, vulgar, bloody and oh so much fun!!!
It's hard for me to judge each volume of Preacher because I always think of the entire series as one long narrative, and each volume doesn't seem to be a book of its own, if that makes any sense.
Anyway, this volume introduces Herr Starr and his cronies who seem to be quite popular lately due to the TV series.
If this series was by anyone but Garth Ennis it would be considered gratuitous and too over the top, but somehow he manages to pull it off.
The characters in Preacher are truly fleshed out which makes the nutty situations almost believable.
Rich storytelling abounds here - a textbook Ennis origin story, giving us a helluva reason or three to like and respect Jesse Custer.
Plus freaks and evil doings to go along with it.
Seems like Ennis has a playbook and keeps coming back to it like an addict, or a compulsive:- flawed man lecturing his girlfriend- lots of war stories- the super-arc about struggles against the accepted authority- decadent orgies- 'deviant' sexual acts- generous violence- women who don't pass the Bechdel testPreacher, The Boys, Crossed...anytime Ennis walks off the reservation, he starts snorting cocaine and enjoying the hell out of adverse taboo confrontation.The mains are interesting characters, beneath the excesses - usually good for some surprises and imperfections, and plenty of dialogue worth reading.
And Dillon's art is pure Dillon.
In my review of the first volume, I compared it to Kevin Smith's Dogma. Funny, then, that he wrote the introduction to the second volume. Perhaps this was an inspiration for him.As for this volume, I loved the family revenge story in the first half. In addition to Dogma and Jonah Hex, which seem to color the overall series, it has a Deliverance feel to it. The second half, with the Jesus de Sade plot-line, was a little weaker, but overall, still awesome.
Review in Volume 9.
In the first story arc we get to see Jesse's childhood and why he left Tulip the first time around.
The second story deals with the gang dealing with the death of Cassidy's girlfriend.I thought the first collection was better than this one but this one is still very enjoyable.
I think we are introduced to every possible deviant act in this collection.
I did like the first arc better than the second.
The second arc's highlights were the introduction of new characters but I felt like the story was filler until the end.I am enjoying this comic so much.
4.5 stars.
3.5 stars.Whilst still a very enjoyable read, it did not reach the dizzying heights of book 1. Mainly because, I guess, the back story of the Angel of death being very dark and grim.Still, jumping into book 3 immediately.
I dare say that it at least made par.Jesse Custer, a preacher who now speaks the Word of God--literally--after being struck by the entity known as Genesis (an escaped offspring from a forbidden affair between an angel and a demon), is on the road with his estranged girlfriend Tulip when he runs into his past.
And they've got someone in their corner who is either a very shady God or a nefarious impostor.But the story of Jesse's family and his love for Tulip is only have the story in this weighty graphic novel.
Great installment.
Just as bloody and crass as the first, with dialogue that flows and artwork that perfectly reflects the story.
This time around, we learn Jesse and Tulip's history from the moment she stole him from another woman to the reasons he abandoned her in Phoenix.
We also get the sordid details of Jesse's childhood--it's frightening and gruesome, filled with horrific incidents that made me squirm.
Destiny seems to have a permanent shit-storm in mind for the Reverend Jesse Custer, getting him further entrenched in a conspiracy spanning millennia.
This is absolutely entertaining from start to finish!
I love the characters.
No matter how silly, evil, crazy or seemingly bland they are, Ennis still manages to inject humor (oftentimes very offensive ones) into them.
Volume two is a collection of two arcs from this highly-acclaimed graphic novel series.
The first one gives a backstory to Reverend Custer while the second one gives us a glimpse of a super-secret society that has set all its eyes in finding the Reverend.
As what I have said above, Preacher is a very offensive piece of graphic novel literature.
This is absolutely entertaining from start to finish!
I love the characters.
No matter how silly, evil, crazy or seemingly bland they are, Ennis still manages to inject humor (oftentimes very offensive ones) into them.
Volume two is a collection of two arcs from this highly-acclaimed graphic novel series.
The first one gives a backstory to Reverend Custer while the second one gives us a glimpse of a super-secret society that has set all its eyes in finding the Reverend.
As what I have said above, Preacher is a very offensive piece of graphic novel literature.
This felt slightly dated compared to the first volume, though still thoroughly enjoyable. The writing is what makes this series so special and the art is no sloucher either. Plenty of violence, rather disturbing because you know that there are people in this world who have faced similar experiences as represented here, though maybe more in a realistic and truly terrifying sense. So I've come to a certain conclusion involving the main character and I will enjoy continuing the series to see if my theory pans out. But I'm probably wrong. Great series.

Can't get enough of Preacher! Can't believe I waited this long to start the journey!
Grim, funny and fucking cool, through and through.
I actually only read the last half of this, as the first half was part of the first Preacher collection.
The first book of Preacher had a clear story arc and a logical conclusion where Reverend Jesse Custer and his friends defeated his psychotic grandmother and her cronies.
In this part that I read, Jesse, Tulip, and Cassidy head off to the party of Jesus de Sade, a gross perverted man who is actually the biological descendant of Jesus, and whom people refer to as "Lord Jesus" (I nearly cracked up every time, since Jesus de Sade spends most of his time in bikini bottoms and not much else).
I truly enjoyed the backstory and showdown involving Jesse Custer's dealings and eventual showdown with the L'Angelle clan.
And I am intrigued by his interaction with the ghost of John Wayne.
Is this a real ghost?
Or is Jesse simply fucked in the head?
I don't really feel they contribute that much to the ongoing story arc - but mileage will vary.The introduction of Herr Starr brings on a terrific villain - and the interplay between Featherstone and Hoover is classic.All in all a solid second volume into this graphic novel classic.Yours in storytelling,Steve Vernon
While I do like Garth Ennis' writing style, I just cannot get into this series.
It has it's high points- namely, Cassidy and the Saint of Killers- but I just don't care for Jessie Custer.
I don't mind the violence and I don't mind the language, but I feel the magnitude with which both occur in the "Preacher" Series belong more in John Conatantine's universe.
There, it makes a certain amount of sense, and Constantine has a charm about him to offplay it.
Here though, it seems to be violence, racism, and debauchery for the sake of it, with only a hair-thin plot cementing it all together.
I za standarde Preacher-a ovo je bilo ludo! Ne secam se da li sam ikome hteo toliko zlo da se desi kao porodici L'Andjelo. Od poremecene bake Mari, preko hladnokrvnog Dzodija pa sve do okrivanja Grejl organizacije i naravno, raskalasnog, hedonistickog, sadomazohiste Isusa de Sada, ovolika koncentracija akcije, alkohola, humora, samaranja religioznih dogmi, nesvakidasnjih seksualnih cinova (sta reci o coveku u s&m odezdi koji opsti sa kurvanjskim ovcama), uz primese trash-a, palp-a i sentimentalnih karakterizacija glavnih likova, je svakako bio melem za sva cula.
