https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13318644-mimsy-were-the-borogoves
In case it's not obvious, the link up there in the description takes you to page where you can read the entire story for free. It's not very long and well worth your time.Like all the best science fiction, this story is about ideas. Despite being nearly 70 years old, the story could easily be set in present day without changing it at all. The ideas feel fresh and develop wonderfully as the story goes along.Recommended!
My boyfriend's mom recommended the movie, and while I was doing research on the title, I came across this story and decided to read it first to see if I would enjoy it.
The story is heavily psyhonalitical (a psychological and psychotherapeutic theory first laid out by Sigmund Freud in the 19th Century) and poses questions regarding children's development, in particular how they learn.
However, I would recommend reading the original story and then watch the movie, as they both are great and interesting in their own unique ways.

Things can but they need help getting back - so the toys somehow teach the children how to do that - and a child's tear accidentally falls on Mimsy and carries her DNA back to the future.
In this case though, the children learned and then disappeared, presumably time traveling to when the toys were originally sent.
They're just his sons old toys, something disposable that won't be missed if they're ruined or don't come back.In the movie, they're specifically designed with the purpose of collecting DNA from the past in order to save the future.
What? Just what?! Amazing. Be prepared it's like nothing you could ever imagine.
This is the short story that The Last Mimsy is based on. It is a great movie, and a great short story...though somewhat independent of each other.
Great read.The story is really fascinating and I would've loved to read a sequel or a collection of other related short stories).Even though the story was originally published in the February 1943 issue of Astounding Science Fiction Magazine [You can read more about the story here!], I would still recommend this (even to a non science-fiction reader) because of:1.
the intriguing story;2.
it's still enjoyable and relatable even though it was published more than 70 years ago.4.5/5 (view spoiler)[The link between this universe and "Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There" was a neat Easter egg.
(hide spoiler)]
What a weird little short story! I decided to read this as it is the basis of the movie "The Last Mimzy" which I thoroughly enjoyed! I found it in a collection of science fiction short stories and read it fairly quickly. Its only about 30 pages long so a quick read. I would say the film is very Loosely based on this story. Still it was interesting look at child psychology and brain development in 1943.
So I spontaneously watched the movie The Last Mimzy with my friend. "Bizzare, but a decent movie," is the only way to describe it. But when we heard it was based on a short story written in 1942, I had to run off and read it. It's very different from the movie and I actually enjoyed reading the story. But what makes it so strange is because it turns into a Through the Looking Glass fanfiction of sorts at the end. It's a good piece of science fiction.
Scott's actions are forced: DNF.
sad ending, but very thought provoking and a great read!
The possibilities suggested by this tale are a wonderful description of the sometimes elusive ways of the imagination – and how imagination can shape the world or create other worlds (as real as our own).Society puts up a great wall of logic and reason before us (Heliocentrism was once inconceivable and worthy of mockery).
Anyone capable of peeping beyond the wall will see this tale as a wonderful portal to something much greater than words – which in turn, like the title hints, is connected to another world filled with more portals, and so on and so on, in the infinite and sublime realm of imagination/life.
The author(s) imagine that the poem "Jabberwocky" was actually a made up by Alice Liddell and merely transcribed by Lewis Carroll.
The poem is Alice's interpretation of a formula that makes time travel possible.
Although the story is brilliantly inspired, it is now stylistically and culturally extremely dated, so much so that it's actually irritating to read despite the fascinating premise.
The movie supposedly based on the story, "The Last Mimzy," in fact bears almost no resemblance at all to the original short story.
Certainly it lacks the creepy, nightmare-in-broad-daylight atmosphere of the original.
A lovely, near perfect piece of speculative fiction. Just the right amount of creativity and eeriness in exploring the way human beings interpret the world. Just how much of our behavior is learned, and what possibilities do we have to learn to become something no longer perceptively human? This would be a 5-star review except the story is essentially Alice in Wonderland fan-fiction and I just can't get over the horrible 1940s sexism: "I'm trying to understand," Jane said slowly, "All I can think of is my Mixmaster." Eek.
not long ago, i took the kids to see the last mimzy and afterwards, inspired by the oddness of the film, decided to track down the original story. i thought the movie was bizarre (though enjoyable) but the story was serious sci-fi... very out there and very 1940s, so doubly confusing. if i hadn't had the movie (modernized and v. loosely based on the tale) as grounding, i'm not sure i'd've been able to make any sense of the story. all in all, an interesting "experiment" with classic sci-fi.
It all boils down to the fact that 'One can no more think like a baby than one can think like a bee.'An imaginative and inventive investigation into what makes children's minds seems so strange and alien to adults. What if that strangeness was preserved and not smoothed into "adulthood", "reason" and "common sense"? All it takes is a small fictional device and the story's two children are never shoehorned into our plain common reality with its common restrains and rules.
I watched the movie yesterday and read the book today. And for the first time I'm dissapointed with the book. I expected more, I know it's a short book it couldn't have many details but I wanted more action, most part of the book is just psychology.
I really liked this story. It kind of throws you back and for emotionally because you feel like the parents are trying to make their children so normal. However, kids brains will grow and change in ways that no one ever expects. Overall a great quick sci-fi read
I loved the movie and tracked down the original novel. It was very agead of its time.
Interesting, strange, short
Pretty standard adult fear horror/sci-fi. I expect I'd like it better (or, well, dislike it better) if I was a parent myself.
A classic and concise sci-fi tale. Well worth the short amount it takes to read. I particularly enjoyed the semiotic emphasis.
My favorite SF short story of all time.
Actually, I never listened to the cassette, I read the story out of "The Best of Henry Kuttner".
