https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128098.The_Effect_of_Gamma_Rays_on_Man_in_the_Moon_Marigolds
This book shredded my very soul the first time I read it and continues to do so year after year. More misunderstood freak/effed parent and school goodness, but this one is particularly heartbreaking. Apparently I love it when books just destroy me. Ok then.
قشنگی خوندن نمایشنامهها به اینه که میتونی خودت رو جلوی یه صحنه تئاتر تصور کنی و درواقع خودت نباشی که مشغول خوندن دیالوگهایی، بلکه این نمایشه که جلوت اجرا میشه.شخصیتها میان و میرن و مونولوگها و دیالوگها ادا میشن و احساسی که در اون لحظه و صحنه وجود داره رو درک میکنی.این نمایشنامه کاملا این تجربه رو برام بههمراه داشت. تراژدی جالبی بود، دوستش داشتم، باهاش ارتباط خوبی برقرار کردم و از همه مهمتر، از خوندنش لذت بردم.
قشنگی خوندن نمایشنامه‌ها به اینه که می‌تونی خودت رو جلوی یه صحنه تئاتر تصور کنی و درواقع خودت نباشی که مشغول خوندن دیالوگ‌هایی، بلکه این نمایشه که جلوت اجرا می‌شه.شخصیت‌ها میان و میرن و مونولوگ‌ها و دیالوگ‌ها ادا می‌شن و احساسی که در اون لحظه و صحنه وجود داره رو درک می‌کنی.این نمایشنامه کاملا این تجربه رو برام به‌همراه داشت. تراژدی جالبی بود، دوستش داشتم، باهاش ارتباط خوبی برقرار کردم و از همه مهم‌تر، از خوندنش لذت بردم.
بعد از دوره کتابهای آقای فوئنتس داستانی خطی و سرراست واقعا به آدم میچسبید.کتاب رو دوست میداشتم، و فضاسازیای که داشت برای من مطلوب بود.صاف و ساده بود، بله!
بعد از دوره کتاب‌های آقای فوئنتس داستانی خطی و سرراست واقعا به آدم می‌چسبید.کتاب رو دوست می‌داشتم، و فضاسازی‌ای که داشت برای من مطلوب بود.صاف و ساده بود، بله!
A terribly tragic play about an intellectually curious girl and her broken home and upbringing. She yearns to escape from the confinement of her small-minded and downward-spiralling family, while still being torn with love for them. One of my favorites!
کتاب ساختار ساده ای داره و صحنه ها بعضا من رو به یاد مک دونا می انداخت ولی آنچه اونو متمایز می کرد هم آمیختگیش با علم بود که بر موضوعات تکراری و همیشگی سایه افکنده بود.
The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds  as a film resonated strongly with me, so I figured I should read the play and perhaps even compare the literary work and the movie.
She is an introverted, scientifically minded girl who does her Science fair project with so much diligence, and despite being used as a verbal punching bag, she still finds enough kindness in herself to nurture a bunny, do things for her mother (more than she is supposed to do!) and treat Nanny, the elderly boarder her mother has taken in, with respect.The symbolism of Tillie's science project - Man-in-the-Moon marigolds exposed to various degrees of radiation - becomes obvious after being immersed in Tillie's life.
The play does show its age a bit, a little rust around the edges, but nothing that a good director couldn’t adjust.
This is an emotional play about a mother and her relationship with both of her daughters.
Both have not accomplished what they thought they would in life, and both fooling themselves to an extent, only the mother in this is so much more self aware of her failures.
Her misery she inflicts on to both her daughters with little to no thought as to what she is doing to them.
One daughter is at the point or rebelling the other is there trying to appease.
صفحه 51: هر اتم در من، در هر کس دیگه ای، از خورشید اومده _ از جاهایی فراسوی رویاهای ما _ اتم های دستهامون، اتم های قلب هامون
I've always wanted to read this play because of the title -it's a great title. One of the worst mothers in all of literary history and one of the most hopeful, sweet protagonists. I would dearly love to adopt Tillie right out of the book and bring her home with me.
۳.۵برام خیلی خوشحال کننده بود که نویسنده تمام تلاشش رو برای ارتباط یک موضوع علمی و ادبیات کرده بود.نمایشنامه زیاد چیزی رو توضیح نمیداد.سرنخهایی از شخصیت و گذشته و حالات روحی افراد دستت میداد که خودت باید تکمیلش میکردی.در کل غمانگیز بود.
۳.۵برام خیلی خوشحال کننده بود که نویسنده تمام تلاشش رو برای ارتباط یک موضوع علمی و ادبیات کرده بود.نمایشنامه زیاد چیزی رو توضیح نمی‌داد.سرنخ‌هایی از شخصیت و گذشته و حالات روحی افراد دستت می‌داد که خودت باید تکمیلش می‌کردی.در کل غم‌انگیز بود.
Its author is Paul Zindel, a playwright and science teacher from Staten Island, New York.The plot centers around a dysfunctional family: a widow named Beatrice Hunsdorfer and her two daughters, Matilda ("Tillie") and Ruth.
Throughout the play, the introverted-yet-highly-intelligent child Tillie prepares an experiment for her school's science fair involving marigolds raised from seeds exposed to varying degrees of radioactivity.
As the play develops, Tillie wins the science fair through perseverance, Ruth repeatedly attempts to stand up to her mother but experiences several nervous breakdowns, and Beatrice is eventually driven insane and commits several violent acts toward her family and local community.
This heart wrenching story has to be my favorite play of all time.Written from the innocent, simplistically factual view of a bright young middle-schooler, Tillie, we are introduced to a tense family scene where love and hate often blur into indistinguishable lines.
The two supporting characters, her sister Ruth and her embittered mother Beatrice, are some of the strongest characters I have ever read.This book is short, concise, and easy to get through, writing at the approximate level of a middle schooler.
However, the story-line remains entirely adult, mature, and haunting.
One of my favorite books of all time.
Such an intense little play around a single mother doing the best she can, which is not very! She doesn't understand either of her daughters, she uses emotional manipulation with everyone, and seems so broken at the end. Tillie, the Zindel alter-ego, is a spunky little girl who sees a future, starting with her mutatant marigold seeds. She's a survivor we root for. I love it when students force their books -- and plays -- on me. Thanks, Nick.
Minus one star because I was at a meeting where everyone had to say what they were reading, and I had to spit this whole title out.
Her other daughter, Tillie, shows promise and interest in science but is often kept home from school.
When Tillie wins the science fair at school her mother implodes from shame or jealousy or helplessness or desperation, or all of these at once.
Tillie’s science fair project involves the effects of radiation on marigolds and she finds that though some flowers die from over-exposure, others with less exposure mutate in strange and wonderful ways.
This, of course, is a metaphor for her mother’s emotional radiation on her daughters, producing harm in Ruth but perhaps a more resilient and unexpected result in Tillie.
I was required to read this play in Language Arts class when I was a middle school student, and I just re-read it this week as I am preparing to coach the Academic Superbowl team at the middle school where I now teach.While I might describe the storyline as powerful and thought-provoking, I would not say that I enjoyed it (then or now).
It is a depressing tale, in which the young protagonist, Tillie, is at the mercy of her seemingly-deranged mother and manipulative older sister.Not my cup of tea, but part of the "cannon" I suppose.
Perhaps if I saw it performed, I would like it more.
This story hits me on a personal level. As a teacher, I've taught kids from dysfunctional families and have witnessed the uphill ongoing battle they faced. One of my students had a parent who committed suicide. Others have persevered with parents like Tillie's mother Beatrice. It's comforting to realize that many will survive and be the stronger for their experience. I can relate to Ruth's epilepsy, accurately and sympathetically conveyed by the author. I wish I had known about this book earlier and would have read it to my older students.
An interesting, quirky, and devastating play. I found myself emotionally connecting to each of the characters: the daughter who experiences extreme panic disorder, the younger less-paid-attention-to nerd daughter, the scared, possibly self loathing mother, and even the awkward Janice from the science fair (although, spoiler alert, I would never, as Janice did, boil a cat.) I am not sure yet what to make of this crazy play and the messages on it. Tillie's science fair project seemingly a symbol for the family unit. Commentary on: favoritism, ageism, self-love, and mental disorders.
I thought that this book was very great. I really liked the characters in this book. Well, I was being Tillie, who is the main character in this book, at school. Among these characters, I liked Tillie. That was because she was smart, and she really loves Science. It was the same as me. Also, I could connect easily with the characters like Tillie. I also love Science, and had won the Science Fair before.
I first saw this play two years ago, and I had fallen in love with it before the second act started. Painful to watch (or read)? Yes. Moving? Most definitely. I have read and re-read it more times than I can count, but I can still laugh and cry every time.This isn't a cheerful story or a happy ending--it's a real life situation that tears you apart, which is probably why I love it so much.
I re-read this book as I was culling my library for my annual Goodwill donation, and was struck by how much better it was on the second reading. I also appreciated the number of strong female roles: it's the kind of play it would have been easy for me to stage in high school/college, where the paucity of male actors made it difficult to choose a worthy play. A quick read, but a good one; not as good as the gushing blurbs on the back, but really quite entertaining.
This play is so powerful, devastating and uplifting both. It’s a painful but wonderful story about a bright child’s ability to surmount her circumstances; her sister and mother are not able to do so. Some very unpleasant (verbal) child abuse depicted. Terrific use of symbolism. This is one that really got to me emotionally.
Oh, he wrote this, too.. I'd forgotten that. I can't remember if I read this, but I certainly saw the film or became totally aware of it around that late 70's time. And I was appreciative that someone captured the whole alcoholic Mom thing, and I could step out and compare similarities/differences; that daughter's coping mechanisms vs. mine, and so on. Excellent.. (from memory).
A beautiful, painful drama about an embittered mother and her two daughters, one epileptic and hyperactive, the other quietly brilliant. Ruth flutters blithely from one obsession to another, Tillie's thoughtfulness and flare for science offer her a bright future, while their mother's rage and instability threaten to tear all three of them apart.
I was fourteen when I first met Tillie. She is now still a huge part of me. I got the chance to play her in a production my Freshman year and we were selected to perform at the All State Festival. Zindel tells his own story in. Way that pierced my soul. I think Tillie will always be a part of who I am today. This play is honest and beautifully heartbreaking.
It was a wonderful read. Compelling, painful and hard to put down. It is amazing how Zindel makes me feel the hope and see the beauty in his environment painted with despair and filled with poison. Every character was so heartbreakingly torn by circumstances that it was impossible not to be moved. Yet through it all I sensed their resilience and it gave me strength. Really want to see the play.
This book was great because it has lots of part teenager may find it interesting. I read it because of my english teacher, i am Ruth in the book. And its an act, and i really recommend people who likes to read an act to read this.
This book's title drew me in, but when I picked it up, I immediately knew it would be a defining text in my life. I am struck by the widely accepted themes of mental illness and abuse, but more so how it captures aimless ambition. So much can be gleaned from the brief tryst that is this play.
I read this book for the first time over 40 years ago when it was a recent book and remember liking it but never having read it again in all these decades gone by.I decided to re-visit some of the books I loved as a young person to see how well they've traveled.
Sometimes when you are young your surroundings affect you deeply, but you are in the midst of it and you know somehow your home is not like other kid's homes, but you deal with it as there is no alternative, especially if you have no other family and your father does not live with you.Now @ 55, I get to look back and see what other unstable mothers do and say to their daughters, and wonder how they turn out once adults.
Tillie struggles to stay quietly passionate and focused amidst the volatility of her life at home.
With a sister, Ruth, who suffers from convulsions and a mother, Beatrice, who is mentally and emotionally abusive, Tillie stays true to herself and finds beauty in the world.I like Tillie.
You only see her true emotion in those last few hopeful lines.Ruth responds differently to her mother's abuse.
Ironically, Ruth seems to have a better relationship with Beatrice, though she is less reserved and more likely to cause drama.
Ruth also suffers from convulsions.
