https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24271.Skellig
Well, that was excellent. This book is a brief mouthful of myth and hope and atmosphere. Reasons to read it?1. There's a magical, irritable man in the narrator's garage. He likes Chinese take out and dead mice.2. There is a wise and judgmental girl-neighbor who becomes the narrator's best friend.3. There is no kissing.4. There is warming family dynamic: the narrator is afraid his sickly baby sister will die.5. There are teachers and parents and grown-ups who aren't idiots, assholes, or antagonists.6. Myth!7. Myth!8. Myth!Recommended.
The creature's name is Skellig and Michael finds strength through the effort he puts into saving his new friend from starvation.
Together they experience magic and hope and learn to accept that creatures like Skellig exist even if they have no rational explanation for it.
If young adult fiction can give you a new experience of an old classic without being condescending and purely educational, that is a good thing indeed!The poetry of Blake revived in a story of fear and hope and magic!And the most important lesson of all, Michael laconically sums it up:You get good at football by playing football, you get good at drawing by drawing.
I read this about ten years ago now, and I’d completely forgotten about how much I loved it at the time.
The story of the rebirth of Skellig is a wonderful little tale; it is an allegory for the ever evolving nature of man, and how perhaps he may not have reached his full evolutionary potential.
He change Michaels life and his name is Skellig.
You could look at the novel is two ways: Skellig is a man who has evolved into a more angelic form or he is an angel who is simply reborn.
3.5 stars.
Lovely little fable, only 170 pages I finished it pretty quickly and really enjoyed it.
Sweet tale of friendship, family, love and imagination.
Michael finds what he assumes to be a homeless man - hiding out in the garage of the new house he has moved into with his parents and baby sister.What follows is a tremendous story of this man - known as Skellig, and the change he brings about both physically and emotionally to Michael's family, without ever being seen by anyone other than Michael and his neighbour Mina.Would definitely recommend if anyone was looking for a lighthearted story.
The author is asked about his influences, and he is led in the question to a magical realism answer which he admits to having and cites Marquez, someone whom I have never read, but maybe one day will.
This is something I would have done at 13, and still do to this day, I'm a sucker for going after influences of authors I love and expanding the books I will one day need to read in this way.
Michael puts his own troubles aside to care for the man, feeding him left over Chinese takeaway - #27 and #53, ale and aspirin.Michael also meets and becomes friends with a neighbour his age, a girl called Mina, who is home schooled by her mother.
In the meanwhile, Michael's baby sister takes a turn for the worse and his parents are informed that she needs a heart operation if she is to live.
His parents are distraught, and Michael realises that he too really cares for and loves his sister.
And was happier for it.My son had this book for a school project so I read it to help him out.
He had to prise it from my fingers after an hour and a half, and I wanted to go back and read it again.
It embodies all that I think is good in Young Adult fiction, an unspoiled, simple but honest and direct approach - the themes are complex, but the storytelling is pure.
I think adult fiction is just too pretentious sometimes, and this shows how a story can be emotive, mystical and witty all at once.Sorry about the blubbing.
I didn't get the book wet ^_^
im no teen, so i cant adequately judge this. it seems more interesting than some of the teen fiction books out back when i was wee, but more like a fable or a fairy tale than a full length novel. not a waste of an hour and a half....
The first time I read anything that could be considered Magical Realism, I was super impressed by the subtlety and the grounding of the tale, as if it was mostly traditional fiction bordering on allegory, only milder.After a certain point, each Magical Realism tale sits rather more blandly than the last.It's Fantasy-lite.
IF it has a bit of awe and wonder in it and it's done WELL, then I *might* bump it up as my absolute favorite novel of all time because it shows everyone just how DARING I am.
Elegant cover,Superb title,and what a story! ♡ Absolutely brilliant. I truly adore this loving, fascinating & quick read book.
It's a story full of mystery and also reality of our lives, I enjoyed the story and the way it was written as a teenager and I still love reviewing it...
I read this book because of its review in one of Nick Hornby's Believer columns. His high praise and its referencing of William Blake sold me. It's an imaginative tale, touching and sweet but not saccharine; simply told, but with lots to think about; and suitable for its target audience of ages 8 to 12, but interesting enough for an adult (me) to keep reading and thinking. Plus I learned some new things about owls.The story reminds me a little bit of something Neil Gaiman might write; but despite its themes, it's not nearly as dark as Gaiman usually is.
This may not be my favorite book, but I can't say that I didn't enjoy giving up a few hours on a Wednesday night to visit Michael's world.When I was little and told to say my prayers (by hypocritical lapsed catholics, by the way) I would start by asking that my family be safe (yeah, that didn't work out so well now, did it?) and then hit the trivial things like asking that Jimmy Watts would notice me or maybe my mom could buy me the new Olivia Newton John album?
Michael doesn't like to dwell on that.
I just have a shoddy memory.But I guess the best thing about re-reading books is that you can start to remember bits that you had completely forgotten about.Like, for example, I remember being a little bit scared of the character of Skellig.
And she’s the one who is "extraordinary” and will hold Michael’s hand and give it that extra squeeze if he’s feeling like he’s drifting away.I also remember how quiet this story is, and how it’s poignant and beautiful and occasionally uncomfortable to read.
Check out this review on my blog - Random Melon Reads 6.258965 starsI first read Skellig a number of years ago and instantly fell in love with it.
The past couple of reads have been listening to the audiobook during my daily walks/train journeys and it’s just delightful.Skellig is, on the surface, a story about a boy (Michael) who finds an angel/bird/owl-like man living in the garage of his new home.
Michael meets a girl, Mina, and becomes her friend without it becoming a love story.
Skellig is a masterclass in how to write dialogue.
I liked it enough that I've recommended it to Te and Los, and Scoutie has already started reading it, and I blew through it at top speed, wanting to see how things played out.There is much to admire in Almond's book.
His position lacked the subtlety of the rest of the novella, and each time the fence sitting appeared it pulled me out of the story.The tension in the book between evolution and the existence of the supernatural was so forced that I couldn't concentrate on the characters or what they were doing; it felt a bit too much like the wife in the Murder of Gonzago.
Boy makes new friend.
Boy finds something magical, shares with new friend, has enlightening, magical experience, and everything turns out better than okay.
Maybe David Almond will revisit her some day.I had some concerns that this was going to become some sort of fallen angel / heavy-handed Christian metaphor like that Meg Ryan movie, what was it called?
There is, however, this interesting relationship between Christianity and evolution - Michael is learning about evolution in school, his mates are skeptical, Mina knows evolution is a fact, and we are told several times that shoulder blades are vestigial wings.
This is a truly magical book, dealing with big issues such as illness and friendship.
Michael has moved to a new home and is also having to cope with the fact that his baby sister is very ill.
He discovers a strange man, Skellig, living in his garage and, along with his new friend Mina, tries to help him.
Skellig is more than he seems though and might just be able to help Michael too.
The imagery that David Almond uses throughout the book really bring it to life and it's no surprise that it won the Carnegie Medal.
This book is mysterious. It is thought-provoking. It creates many questions and offers no obvious solutions. It makes me cringe and yet want to keep reading. Somehow all of this works together to create a piece of beauty. The characters are dynamic and fascinating, and the scenes are crafted exceptionally well. I don't know what else to say, but it is just one of those books that everyone should read once both because it is so interesting but also because the novel deserves so much credit!
2.5 starsThis was just weird. It's very difficult to rate because it's just so strange, so I'm rating it based on how much I enjoyed it, which was not very much. Aside from Mina, none of the characters were very likeable, and I didn't get the whole angel thing, plus the writing was dull. Not recommended.
Michael's age is never stated, and he definitely sounds like a kid, but there are things he says or thinks that feel more adult to me.
Because we never know his age, though, the book has a quality that can appeal to all ages of readers as I stated above.What struck me the most during and after this read were the wonder that Almond uses Michael to express and the interesting connection between faith and science.First, Michael and Mina feel wonder about life.
To really appreciate a celestial being, one that is neither man nor bird nor angel but an odd and unique mixture of all three, Mina and Michael need science.
Just read it.Michael's family has moved away from their house in the city to a ramshackle, dusty old dump in the middle of nowhere.
Determined to be as fussy as possible, Michael starts poking around the old shed on their property even though (and because) his dad told him not to.
What's so lovely about this story is that while Michael and Mina focus on helping Skellig, they're unaware that in doing so, they are becoming better people.
Michael learns compassion and pity, so when his baby sister takes a turn, he realizes that he's loved her all along, and cannot bear to lose her.
I've read some of the positive and negative reviews, and frankly agree wholeheartedly with the positive ones, and am puzzled by the negative.
There aren't cruel parents; they are loving and caring, and sometimes fallible.
There aren't cruel children, just confused, joyful, emotional, and fearful REAL ones.
There aren't cruel teachers, but caring and interesting ones.
There is a wonderful relationship between a young boy and and a girl, that doesn't involve romance; but insight, wisdom, learning, teaching, awe, companionship, wonder, joy, and even a touch of anger, and fear of losing someone you love and losing sense of family.
Bueno, eso fue...
mágico.
Amé este libro tanto como amé Mina, (aunque quizá Mina tenga un poco más de espacio en mi corazón).
Estoy totalmente enamorado de la lírica de David Almond, cada capítulo tiene su propia magia y su propia fuerza, y la historia es simplemente bellísima.
Amo los temas que abordó el libro: vida, muerte, amistad, amor, familia...
¿qué más se puede pedir?
Incluso retoma un poco a la mitología.Es de esos libros que volveré a leer en otro momento de mi vida.
Y que incluso quisiera leerle a alguien.
Con pocos libros he sentido eso: la necesidad de platicarlo, leerlo, contárselo a alguien.

Gufi, merli e un personaggio strano incontrato in un garage pericolante, e poi la storia di un'amicizia tra un bambino ed una bambina. Un piccolo gioiellino per bambini, scritto in maniera fantastica, David Almond mi è sembrato, in questo primo libro letto, un grande autore, ottima scrittura e capacità di incuriosire. Ottimo per bambini perché si affronta la paura del diverso e della paura della perdita di qualcuno di vicino. Curiosa di leggerne altri dello stesso autore.
Love this book. What a creation of a character Skellig is. Obvs I am a huge fan of Almond. Not just because he grew up in the streets around the corner from my house, but because his story telling is so wonderful. You go on a journey with the characters and root for them to do well.I remember the look on my Y5 class' face when they saw a trail of white feathers outside of the classroom, leading to a bunch of boxes at the back. Brilliant!!!!
Can safely say, I'm in the 'Skellig is awesome' camp after a few people mentioning it's a marmite kinda book. Not sure what our UKS2 children would make of it though - might try and encourage some of next years Year 6s to give it a go.
However, I was amazed at how much story and feeling David Almond was able to discuss in the short duration of the novel.
Even though I thought the novel was exceptional, I had a bit of trouble getting into it.
The beginning doesn’t do nearly enough of a job hooking the reader into the story—it felt as though I myself had fallen from the sky, like Skellig, and landed mid-thought into Michael’s life.
It felt a bit disjointed.
Despite these minor setbacks, Skellig is still an important novel about love and hope in the darkness.
Skellig is a fiction book with a lot of twist and turns.
A 10 year-old boy named Michael has moved into a new neighborhood.Michael is a very adventurous boy that likes to play football with his friends and help the family.
Skellig has Mina is Michaels neighbor who loves birds.
Mina is the only person that Michael could rely on/knows about Skellig.
What i liked in this book is that David Almond made it have twist and turns and he would make u feel worried, nervous, and scared about what was going to happen.
He made it have a lot of twist and turns.
