https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77429.The_Ionian_Mission
Political intrigue in the Mediterranean during the Napoleonic Wars as seen through the eyes of a Royal Navy captain.
Will he or won't he choose wisely, side with the right one and back him, thus creating a strong ally in the region for the British?
Hell, choosing correctly could end up worse for him and his crew!O'Brian has a good sense of humor and he includes some light-hearted scenes right up front.
In this story, Aubrey is asked to possibly ally with a loose-cannon Turkish captain and his battle-thirsty crew, who are created in the image of the pirate of the era.
Maturin is also needed in the Mediterranean for political reasons, something that will come to dominate the later part of the novel, as the British Empire is trying to counteract the French influence in the East and win some ports and some new allies into the bargain.Highlights of the "Ionian Mission" include, but are not limited to:- the domestic arrangements of Stephen Maturin, who, despite being recently married, still tries to enjoy the perks of bachelorhood.- a breakneck chase against the clock from London to Portsmouth, bringing Maturin to the new command of his friend, HMS Worcester.- an incident with second hand powder for the guns of Worcester, that ends prematurely an engagement with a French frigate- artistic preoccupations for the crew and officers who try to relieve the boredom of blockade work.
However, this book reminded me of another thing O'Brian does -- he changes ships quite often.
The song might not change that much, and it might be still a recognizable Mozart tune, but hearing different instruments keeps everything fairly fresh.All that said, I would probably have given this a simple 3 stars, had the last bit, the final brutal act, not been so beautifully staged.
That is the dilemma I think in writing or filming war (even naval war) books and movies.
95 percent of the book was a naval blockade.
"Levin" is apparently an archaic term for lightning, from Middle English.mastic (n): a small Mediterranean tree, and also the resin made from that tree.
for you are to observe that in a crew such as this a great many scrovies are necessarily swept in, froward dirty disreputable rough good-for-nothing disorderly ragabashes and raparees to begin with, and sometimes for ever." As usual, Stephen is a lexical gold mine.
A "scrovie" is apparently an archaic nautical term meaning a nautically worthless man that was pressed into naval service (I'm pretty sure I would qualify).
down more (I hope) to the fact that the ships are part of a blockade on the port & as such there’s very little action which is reflected in the writing & I found the first 150 pages of the book really difficult to get into compared to others in the series.
Then we have a mission & the action/events start to pick up as Captain Aubrey leaves the blockade.
in fact I skipped most of the last 75 pages.....A really disappointing episode to the series & it’s rounded up to 2 stars.
;)I liked the story well enough, but I have a big problem with Simon Vance's narration.
He did the non-dialogue stuff in a way that kept my attention - Patrick Tull's slower pace tends to lose me at times in O'Brian's long sentences - but I absolutely LOATHE Vance's voices for Jack and Stephen.
Jack is the same boorish rhythm and tone over and over, no matter WHAT he's saying; and Stephen sounds like a lisping, peevish maiden auntie, also no matter WHAT he's saying.
Bleargh.IT SUCKED!Back to Tull for the next book.4 stars for the story, but 2 (at best) for the narration.I also want to eat some Drowned Baby out of morbid curiosity.
After a peak into their respective home lives (Maturin's is my particular favorite: he and Diana have homes of their own because their lives are so different--plus he needs privacy for all his intelligence work--but he visits often for shared breakfast in bed and dinner parties), they ship off to support the blockade against the French.
One of Aubrey's old commanders is in charge of the blockade, and too long without action or hope have severely depressed his spirits and health.
His second in command is one of the many captains Aubrey has disobliged over the years--this time, not by sleeping with his wife, but instead by catching him cheating at cards.
Hehe, sailors rock.* Jack being so moved when he had to say goodbye to Sophie and the children.* Stephen having to get on board by himself and all the Surprises all snappish.
Bonden even.* "Surely you did not fall in, like a mere lubber."* Jack's sudden moodswing from OMFGANGRYYOUALMOSTMADEUSMISSOURTIDE to kind and only slightly seething.* Jack's little "foreigners" speech about Jagiello.* Pullings being his cheerful laughing self and Mowett writing a song about Stephen.
-_-* THE LITTLE EIGHT-YEAR-OLD BOY JACK DOESN'T WANT IS CALAMY!!!!!!
I shouldn't laugh but that was damn funny.Final note, because I'm making this too long again: Jack finally has the Surprise again, but dammit, I didn't want it to be like this.
Another ripper from the master Patrick O'Brian...
I stopped with the previous one, The Surgeon's Mate, and then skipped ahead to one of the next.On this reread, I had to figure out why.In this book, for the first time, we see the villains and their machinations, while Jack and Stephen are oblivious.
Jack and Stephen end up dealing with a woman who is not very interesting in herself(view spoiler)[ with whom they are both assumed to be having an affair, which has dire consequences.
(hide spoiler)].So all in all, despite the nifty segment in which Jack tries his hand at diplomacy, leading to some sharpish action leading up to the (abrupt) end, I think of it is the book of hindrances.
I really enjoyed this chapter in the Jack Aubrey stories.
We got to meet up with a few old friends, listened to Jack's valet cry of dismay whenever Aubrey abused his clothes, was on board during a high wind and felt the rise and fall of the waves and heard the pounding sea on the ship to the point where I wondered how all these ships stayed in one piece (thanks to the wonderful storytelling by Mr. O'Brian), and finally got a battle at sea.
No long land scenes, no Sophie, children or Diana Villiers (thank goodness!).I think I would rank this one up there among my favorites in this series.
Stephen saw five spotted eagles so this book was pretty much a total success.
I've been a bit slow in getting back to the Aubrey/Maturin series, but I have no idea why- this book reminded me how much I love them. The characters still have their witty and pithy comments, the nautical knowledge is omnipresent but does not impede the storytelling, and I was completely enthralled with the story. I'm so glad Jack seems to have his luck back!I can't wait to get the next book...
It's about frustration--so many opportunities for a good bloody battle come to nothing. In a parallel subtle plotline (O'Brian's specialty), Aubrey helps his midshipmen by giving them opportunities to learn, and he himself learns to ask for advice when appropriate.
Inventing, on the fly, The Haydn Variations 50 or so years before Brahms? This isn't nautical naval fiction; it's a series of inside jokes.
It hung by a broad belt round its middle, and for a while its legs ran nimbly on: Clements reasoned into its ear in a voice suitable to its enormous bulk and thumped its hide in a kindly manner, and when it was lowered again he led it forward to the foot of the foremast, holding it by the same ear and advising it ‘to step lively, watch for the roll, and mind where it was coming to, not to crush people with its great fat arse.’ Here it was hoisted up, swung round, lowered, and led aft, walking quite meekly now with only an occasional skip and thrust of its horn or wanton flirt of its rump: hoisted again, turned and led forward: to and fro under the fascinated eyes of the Worcesters until at last it was brought to the main hatchway.
This is now my third time reading through this brilliant series and I am reminded again how beautifully written and how wonderfully, addictively enjoyable they are.In The Ionian Mission, Jack's affairs ashore are still in a tangle (to say the least) and he is again grateful to accept even the command of a dodgy old ship of the line and sail to the Mediterranean.
O'Brian's handling of language is masterly, with the dialogue being especially brilliant, but also things like the way his sentences become shorter and more staccato in the action passages, making them heart-poundingly exciting.
Splendid Historical Read.This was book eight in the Aubrey/Maturin saga.
This is much to the delight of Jack Aubrey and the reader.
Aubrey is on a diplomatic mission of sorts, but when the action comes, it is fast and furious.
Steven Maturin is married to Diane Villiers and is establishing his grounds with his wife before we set off for the Mediterranean Sea. This saga is wonderful andI've been reading it in the proper order.
There always seems to be something else for the reader to get into.
If you enjoy seafaring sagas, then I could not recommend anything more highly than the Aubrey/Maturin series.
Aubrey, Maturin, and company are assigned an aging, poorly constructed ship-of-the-line named the Worcester and sent on blockade duty in the Mediterranean. The tedium of the assignment is replaced by a pursuit of the French fleet, a pursuit that nearly spells doom to the Worcester, leaking at every seam.Captain Aubrey is then given his beloved Surprise as a replacement, and the latter part of the book is mostly political wrangling with the local Turks. I became somewhat bored with this volume at times, but all is redeemed in the last twenty pages.
Even when not much is happening.The Ionian Mission is nowhere near as action-packed as its predecessors, as instead of dashing up and down the Med taking prizes, Jack and his crew are now just one small part of a blockade.
Without much fighting or sailing to do, Jack can’t bank on his strong skills (and luck) in those regards and is instead having to push his little grey cells into playing politics.It’s a testament to O’Brian’s writing and fantastic characters that the daily life of an all but stationary ship and a bored crew can still make such great reading.
Here for the first time, they have a crack at 'London' Bach's dad, Johann hisself.
In this and perhaps the last novel, O'Brian has gotten beyond his earlier habit of working variations on the main characters.
In that sense this novel seems a bit less driven by the laying bare of the two main character's identities and more consumed with just moving their stories along.
But once Maturin and Aubrey exchange the lousy Worcester for dear old Surprise, it's only a matter of time until something gets blown up.
As usual, a cracking good read.
I really enjoyed reading The Ionian Mission, the eighth episode in the twenty-volume canon of Patrick O'Brian's brilliant 'Aubreyiad.' This had a bit of it all too: affairs with 'hearth and home' in London and at Ashgrove Cottage; doings with Sophie Aubrey and Diana Villiers Maturin; Stephen Maturin's intelligence activities against the French ashore and afloat; and some fascinating sea-faring adventuring in the Mediterranean Sea. It was wonderful to watch Jack and Stephen have the opportunity to interact with Tom Pullings, and the 'Williams' Mowett and Babbington again too -- but mostly that they were all back aboard H.M.S. Surprise!The title of the novel becomes clear through reading the last third of the book; and an exciting episode it is too!
But the same wit and puns, the same shameless use of all sorts of nautical terms, and of course a wonderful peek into the life of a British navy sailor in a sailing ship.Not much happens, really.
But in true O'Brian fashion, the entire time they spend on blockade duty in the Ionian Sea is in fact NOT the mission you think.
Only towards the last half of the last 1/3 of the book is the true mission.
Just a wink and a nod between Jack and the crew, and Dr. Maturin of course, and the sun sets on another year in Jack Aubrey's life.
Captain Aubrey is given a rust bucket and sent into the Mediterranean to blockade the French.
He talks about the politics of the English blockade.
He talks about Navy discipline.
He talks about food and music.
He talks about Islamic politics.
He talks about pirates.
That was a kinda spicy.And of course the Navy doesn't give a Captain of his success a better ship.
It'd be like giving Captain Kirk command of the Enterprise.
Oh wait...At the very end, it climaxes in a spiffy 2-on-1 battle.
I guess we have to wait for the next one for more talking.
A shame that my favorite entry of the series should be followed by my least favorite.
The book is only slightly salvaged with a rousing finale.I was also bothered that a great deal of the story was related through narrative or epistolary exposition.
I don't know if O'Brian was experimenting with this style but it felt like he was in a rut - introduce minor plot point, build but stop just short of a muted climax, then relate the remainder of the tale in the next chapter in a letter to his wife.
Anyways, the only 'meh' entry of the series for me (although #2 would probably be close) but with eight books down there were bound to be some better than others.
This was not my favorite of the Aubrey/Maturin series though it was still a well written book.
There is very little action in this book.
It is primarily focused on the day-to-day activities on board a British military ship during the 1800s.
I'm sure this was how the ships spent 99.9% of their time but it was a little tedious to read as I'm sure it was to live.
The final few chapters, on Aubrey's mission to some Turkish leaders, were better but still not as good as some of his other books.
Another excellent installment, with plenty of cloak and dagger suspense, surprised reactions to Aubrey's bargain powder purchase, a realistic section illustrating the day in, day out, boredom on blockade duty and dicey political waters to navigate in the Mediterranean. This time it's Aubrey who must sort out the truth, deciding which minor ruler is the lesser of three evils, giving him the best chance to complete his mission. It adds a new dimension to Aubrey's character when he has to navigate dangerous waters on land.
Another book down in Patrick O'Brian's great series about a British captain fighting the French in the Napoleanic wars. As usual, O'Brian does a fantastic job of mixing great character development, dialogue, humor and action while conveying in intricate detail the realities of naval warfare and politics. All that said, this has not proved to be my favorite book in the series. It's a bit slow and doesn't deliver nearly as much excitement as some of the others. Still a worthy read and I'm looking forward to the next. 13 more books in the series to go! Wow.
This is the first of O'brian's books that I've read due to availability in our local library,but I plan on buying the entire series of his books on the fighting ships of the British Royal Navy during the years of Napoleon.I would highly recommend these novels to anyone who has an interest in the sea.
O'brian is a technical author so be prepared for an in depth word parade of ship terminology,but also prepare yourself to get lost in a completely different time.
If you like ships and navel battles read O'brians works you won't be dissapointed
Audiobook version:If you set Jane Austin to writing a high adventure with a massive ship battle at the end to writing a novel, she would do well to have done half as well as Mr. O'Brian. Remarkable stuff. And such skill, to end exactly at the climax. Brilliant. Oh, but please do read the first seven novels before this one.
