https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142296.The_Anubis_Gates
Such words are meaningless filler, and are usually a sign that the author is not comfortable with his own figurative language, or is trying to seem mysterious without really knowing how to do it.We're barely a page in before Powers gives us 'a musty fetor .
What is the benefit to this imprecision?Of course, in most cases, it is just 'shockingly incongruous', and the 'almost' just happened to slip in there for no reason at all.From there we move on to the conflicted metaphors:"His cloak flapping behind him in the wind like the wing-case of some gigantic insect"'Like some' is another meaningless phrase to look out for in figurative language.
More time travel than steampunk, although it has been categorized as the latter, Tim Powers' The Anubis Gates is fun, but it leaves one feeling a little short changed.The problem is that Powers' story has the narrative scope of Neal Stephenson's Baroque Cycle, but it is packed into a mere 380-ish pages.
There is simply never enough of these characters, and it leaves one feeling cheated.So in case you haven't already guessed, the great failing of The Anubis Gates is that it leaves the reader wanting more -- too much more.
I mean, where else can you see some unknown poet scholar of Coleridge and an even more unknown poet by the name of Ashbless turn into a time-travelling, swashbuckling hero able to make mortal enemies of near-immortal Egyptian wizards, and do it all the while in 1810 London for 35 more years?The details and the plot and the funny bits are absolutely great.
It turned around again, of course, and the ending was very satisfying, but not enough to knock this book up to a 5 where my *mind* thinks it should be, but my *heart* refuses to budge.Old Review:I was surprised to find a novel that was much more complicated and rich than I might have otherwise expected.
This book was just so much fun!
It was really, really entertaining and I have no problem giving it five stars.
Basically it is a story about time travel.
It reminded me a lot of the Doomsday Book by Connie Willis which is one of the best books I have ever read so I mean this as praise indeed.
The method of travelling is very original and the purpose very devious.Having travelled our hero spends a large part of the book living in the past and often suffering accordingly.
We meet Coleridge and Lord Byron and travel geographically as well as time wise.
I had a real life experience that comparable with the critical moment of the main protagonist. (view spoiler)[ I had food poisoning, and the cure was just like on the book, I ate carbon/charcoal. It works like magic. Three hours after I ate carbon, I vomited a lot. Five minutes after that, I feel good again. (hide spoiler)]This book is not only my first read of Tim Powers, but also one of my earliest read of fantasy novels. I was still innocent literally. So, I had many "Wow!" experience when I
(view spoiler)[ I had food poisoning, and the cure was just like on the book, I ate carbon/charcoal.
(hide spoiler)]This book is not only my first read of Tim Powers, but also one of my earliest read of fantasy novels.
So, I had many "Wow!" experience when I read this book.
But, I forgive the characterization because it is not the strength of this novel.The main strong selling point of this novel is successfully blending the temporal paradox of time travel with the thrilling plots.
I cannot praise enough how the author is playing with temporal paradox idea so well and keep the story exciting.
In similar fashion to TSNotD, a historian accidentally gets left behind; in this case, he is kidnapped shortly after his time-traveling group goes to England to hear Coleridge speak.The magic system isn't well explained, but involves some Egyptian spirit theory and some earth magic, and perhaps the most interesting developments of the book are when these devices are employed or executed.
It becomes distracting and confusing to know who is important to plot and character development, as body switches and secondary characters enter and are quickly dropped.
I found it took a while to get into, I was never bored, but I also wasn't really all that interested for a large portion of the beginning of this one.
Then it started to pick up and I found I really started to enjoy things once we met Jacky and that lot.
There were a lot of interesting ideas, strange characters and weird happenings in this novel.
I enjoyed it, but I'm sure I don't understand half of it.
I'm not sure it really matters.
It was a fun read anyway.
Strange, but fun.
Doyle is confused when Ashbless does not arrive, as he remembers his history—Ashbless was to spend time at the inn & write that specific poem there, leaving Doyle to wonder if history is being changed.
At that point, I realized that Doyle had to actually become Ashbless and write the rest of his poetry from memory—leaving the wonderful paradox: if he learned the poetry in the 20th century, wrote it from memory in the 19th century, where did the actual poetry come from?
There's so much plot that even Powers doesn't know what to do with it half of the time and after the first two thirds he was either forced to drastically cut whole swathes of storyline or he really liked the idea of a nonstop series of action sequences which repeatedly puts the protagonist in peril with very little linkage between each one.Prior to this point it was an exciting adventure story, peopled by intriguing characters and entertaining passages of action, if not quite fully evoking the time and place at least giving enough detail to make certain that you're not in 1980s America, the time travel element is dealt with very well and isn't foregrounded to the extent that you're always aware of it and puzzling over it but really this should have been multiple books or at the very least a 900 page novel.
2.5 stars. Complicated, chaotic time travelling riotous caper combined with sorcery from Egypt. There were some great ideas in here but the story as a whole was just too much. I was so relieved to get to the end.
This was one of my favorite books back in high school, a madcap time-travel adventure, a maniacal blend of steampunk, Dickensian London, Egyptian sorcerers, villainous rival beggar gangs, real poets Samuel Taylor Coleridge & Lord Byron, fictitious Victorian poet William Ashbless, monstrous human/animal experiments lurking in the sewers below London, a body-switching werewolf, hairy ape men running mad with bleeding mouths, spoon-sized boys, and a modern-day scholar of Victorian poetry who travels back with a group of time-traveling sightseers and gets stranded.
Sometimes I wish I could go back to that time when every book I read was a completely immersive experience, but the next best thing is to step into the river again and see what it feels like.
Brendan Doyle is an expert on Samuel Coleridge and a contemporary of his, William Ashbless, hired by a crazy millionaire to take part in a trip through a hole in the river of time.
Only something goes wrong, as it does in most time travel stories...Powers's writing is good without having needless descriptions.
I found a few of the plot twists obvious but that might be because Three Days to Never used similar themes.The Anubis Gates is really good as far as time travel stories go and features such diverse elements as magicians, body-swapping, ape men, two competing camps of beggars, and all kinds of other craziness that seem to be Tim Powers's bread and butter.
Buen libro de aventuras con toques de fantasía y ciencia ficción, pero que me ha resultado una lectura con altibajos, o bien todo era acción frenética y sin darte respiro o bien trozos que he encontrado pesados y lentos.Lo que más me ha gustado ha sido la ambientación y toda la ciudad de los mendigos de Londres con el payaso Horrabin y sus errores.
Our main character, a man named Doyle, travels back in time from 1983 to 1810 (for reasons explained in the book) and accidentally gets caught up with events involving the evil sorcerers and the aforementioned unexpected events.The story is pretty twisty, with lots of intertwined events affecting other things in a way that keeps you guessing and speculating, and with enough information provided that you can guess some of it successfully on your own while other things are a surprise.
But his belief in the existence of Ashbless affected so many of the events, and it was clearly defined that certain things were to happen at a certain time, so it’s hard to believe he would have ended up on that river otherwise.
Ever wonder what it would be like to travel in time and be able to rewrite parts of history?
The evocation of nineteenth-century England isn't entirely convincing (there are some glaring historic and linguistic anachronisms), and the narrative gets a bit predictable at times (despite the plot being so insane), but the action is non stop, the story unfolds at a cracking pace and there are enough inventive and amusing links to actual history and literature to make even the harshest critic chuckle.
In short, it's a fun read -- not perfect, but perfectly entertaining, with some interesting ideas to ponder afterwards.I'm now wondering where *I* would go if I could travel in time...
What a strange book.
I mean, really, really strange.
It's just such a weird mishmash of science fiction and fantasy and the just plain odd.
We read it in my online SF group, and there's a good question here as to whether it's even science fiction.
There's time travel, which would put it under that rubric, but also ancient Egyptian magicians (ooh, a new tongue twister!).
And the time travel itself, now that I think about it, may not be scientific in nature.
You can read why I came to this decision here.
In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
The Good:Where do I begin? This is such a clever, epic story. Time travel, body swapping, Dickensian London, Egyptian mythology, Romantic poets, evil wizards and an exploration of fatalism - props to Tim Powers for managing to combine all this into something that wasn't absolute crap. Good story, good characters, great settings and ideas, and the ending was excellent.The Bad:It's a complicated mess at times which might diminish one's enjoyment. Plus the book starts in 1983, so I suppose the protagonist had a stupid hairdo.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:Jessica Lockhart.
Time travel, body swapping, Ancient Egyptian blood magic, lycanthropy, mutant beings in the sewers of early 19th C London, and a meeting with Coleridge.
It's a favorite thing of mine, and one I recommend to everyone who asks what I think they should read.
Such an incredibly cool book!
Pero todo ello se solventa con una historia impregnada por magia antigua, sociedades secretas, poderosos hechiceros, viajes en el tiempo, romanticismo inglés y muchas desventuras.Sumergiendo al lector en otras épocas con una facilidad pasmosa, el meticuloso trabajo de documentación realizado por Powers se ve reflejado en páginas donde se puede sentir ese Londres del siglo XIX con estilo Dickensiano, lleno de calles adoquinadas y viejas tabernas que está lleno de mendigos, ladrones y elementos de los bajos estratos sociales.
"The Anubis Gates" is a terrific time travel fantasy. I never quite knew where the story was going or what was going to happen next. Tim Powers is one of those writers who packs meaning and significance into every scene. I found myself having to backtrack several times to see if I had missed something. In the last third of the book, there's so much body switching and name changing that I had trouble telling who was who. I really liked the challenge though, it kept me on my toes and it was unlike anything else I've ever read.
Like many of his books, Anubis posits that there were a whole series of hidden supernatural things going on that explain the gaps in real history from various famous moments in time that we know of; here, for example, that the birth of Romanticism in the early 1800s coincided with a group of Egypt-worshipping occultists who could do actual real magic, and that their unsuccessful attempt to bring back the pagan god Anubis from the dead resulted in ripping open a series of holes in the fabric of the space-time continuum.
Tim Powers is at his best with wacked-out time travel stories, and that's precisely what this is.
And, also, did I mention the time travel?
So. A mild-mannered literature professor (this is, um, something of a theme character in Powers' work) goes back to the time of Lord Byron, and - look.
Suffice to say that this is the kind of book time travel fans read with joy and sorrow - joy because oh my god, so awesome, and sorrow because sooner or later the joy will be over.The book isn't without flaws - Powers was still a fairly unseasoned writer when he produced this, and it shows.
Maravilloso!!! Para mí Tim Powers es un escritor de voz oscura, añeja y dorada como el mejor de los whiskys. En esta novela crea un mundo singular de magia y de realismo como si fuera un claroscuro, donde la magia es el elemento a vencer y el futuro el elemento al que no se puede engañar. Me ha encantado pasear con Doyle por las calles de la Inglaterra de 1810 y sufrir con él, ver cómo su personaje iba avanzando al mismo ritmo que la novela hasta crecer y convertirse en otro hombre.
It’s been over thirty years since Tim Powers’ The Anubis Gates was published, and the story of treachery, time travel, and long dead gods has aged well.But then, what should I have expected?
Powers has a fantastic knack for writing with the kind of abandon that makes important details look like afterthoughts or excess description.
then The Anubis Gates is a satisfying story, strangely unfolded, but fulfilling to the end.
The last ¼ of the book I was so curious about what was going to happen that it was hard to not skim through as quickly as possible but I managed to read as carefully as I needed to read.I appreciated the historical fiction, especially the inclusion of some romantic poets.
Veamos.He disfrutado de Las puertas de Anubis, pero me costó un buen puñado de páginas entrar en la historia. Llega un punto en el que es trepidante y necesitas saber más, me encantan los personajes... Pero hay momentos que caen en picado para volver a remontar. Quizás os parece poco ponerle tres estrellas a esta novela, pero sería un... 6/10 en realidad, con momentos de cuatro estrellas sin duda.
As John Clute puts it in the Jones & Newman volume, it is "a book which it is possible (rare praise) to love"; as Pringle writes, it is a "virtuoso performance." I could not agree more.In the novel, we meet a middle-aged widower named Brendan Doyle, an expert on Samuel Taylor Coleridge and the (fictional) poet William Ashbless.
I'm gonna need more of this guy; possibly his 1979 novel "The Drawing of the Dark," which is highly praised in Cawthorn & Moorcock's "Fantasy: The 100 Best Books"....I would like to add that "The Anubis Gates" is not an easy read for folks who (like me) choose to look up every historical reference or place name that they encounter.
A friend loaned me this book long ago. It was his absolute most favorite book at the time. So I cracked the spine and moved right in. When I'm really into a book it becomes an extension of my left arm and tends to get in the way of meals. When I finally returned it, full of crumbs and tea stains, the cover had somehow gone missing. My friend was unhappy with me but I had thoroughly enjoyed his book. Thanks, Nathan.
I gave it 100 pages & really didn't care about what was going on, so I quit. It could have been interesting, I think. The problem for me was I just didn't get any feeling for any of the characters or the situation. I wanted to, felt I should, but every time I picked up the book it was a chore & I found my mind wandering.
