https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2317963.Snow_White_and_the_Seven_Dwarfs
I have learned that I really enjoy Wanda Gag’s stories, but besides the ones that won a book award she is hard to find around nowadays.
Walt Disney’s Snow White came out in 1939, so this is before that time period.
This is first.The interesting thing about this is that the Evil Queen tries to kill Snow White 3 times: once with tying her corset to tight, once with a poison comb and then the apple we all know.
she has to go to the wedding.The little differences are interesting.
After reading the picturebook biography of Wanda Gag I wanted to see some more of her work beyond Millions of Cats. This was a great version, which hews closely to the Grimm original, and adds in some elements from Three Bears for dialog. I wished Gag and the editing and design team had done more to ensure there were more full-page illustrations. The spot illustrations are great decorative touches, but Gag is at her best when she keeps the whole frame to her meticulous drawings.
Caldecott Honor--1939Why would you choose a Disney version when you have the beautiful artistry and rich language of Wanda Gag? A perfect classic picture book.
This version leaves me scratching my head somewhat.
We have shades of the Three Bears with the whole, eating-drinking-sleeping aspect (and drinking wine?
She's so young...!) and then the book ends with a comeuppance that has to do with dancing shoes.
So with the mashup of fairy tales, this story feels somewhat new.
Which was strange but I kind of liked it.On the other hand, just how stupid is this girl?
Definitely a strange version.
Just not sure what I think.
I'm putting 4 stars only because I keep thinking about it long after I've read it.
Kind of a weird story for modern readers, as are all the original Grimm fairy tales. (Wanda Gág translated from the original.) But I thought the story was well-translated, and I enjoyed the illustrations!
3.5 stars. Worth a read mostly for the art.
Author/ Illustrator: Wanda Ga'gGenre: Fiction Picture BookPublication Info: Smithmark Publishers: 1999Reading Level: late earlyTopic/Theme: fairy talesIssues Addressed: murder, jealousyClassroom Uses: Read Aloud, Individual Reading, paired readingSummary: This is a translation from the original Grimm brothers tale.
Snow White is beautiful and the most fair in the land.
She abides with seven dwarfs.
The wicked queen wants to kill Snow White.
She succeeds, but then Snow White lives...how?
You just have to read the tale.Text and image: The images are black and white.
The images support the text; however, some of the placement of the illustrations make the text more difficult to read.
This retelling of the Grimms' version of the tale is a very quick read, and the black and white illustrations are very fine companions to the narrative.
My favorite illustration is of the wicked queen standing before her truth-telling mirror while a peacock looks on.
This volume being published the year after the release of Walt Disney's version that is so imprinted on the minds of us who are older, so I wonder whether the publisher was taking advantage of that popularity or presenting it as counterpoint.

Beautiful version of this age old fairy tale.
The black and white illustrations are perfect!
The 8 year old boy was not as impressed as I was, and I sort of expected that.
He did like the pictures, but thought the story itself wasn't very interesting.
He was irritated with how naive Snow White was and yelled "REALLY!!" every time she opened the door and fell for another of the witch's tricks.
I can't argue with him there...
Snow was kind of dense.
:D If I were to choose a Snow White book for my personal library though, this one would be it!
I love to read aloud to my children but if the book is not well written it can become a real chore.
Wanda Gag's Caldecott Honor books that we've recently read; Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs and Nothing at All were such a delight.
I was able to really get into the stories with my children and read with so much expression.
The pictures are very interesting too.
I had forgotten how much more there is to the Snow White story besides Disney's version.
So many themes available to discuss with your children, stranger danger, jealousy to name a few.
Based on the well known story by the Brother's Grimm I thought it was really interesting how this story was different from all the snow white versions that I remember, but I thought this version was definitely better. It kind of had a couple elements of other stories in here, but I thought the illustrations were pretty good and the story line was only slightly unbelievable.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
• 1939 Caldecott Honor Book •The illustrations are beautiful and I love the text, but the layout is rather awkward. I wish there were more full page illustrations; it looks like it was sort of thrown together. I do love this version of Snow White which I believe is much more faithful to the original Grimm Brothers story than the Disney version. Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
1939 Caldecott HonorFavorite illustration: The house of the Seven DwarfsKid-appeal: It is pretty long, but both my girls (7 and 10) hung right in there with the book and loved pointing out the differences to the Disney version of the story. The illustrations were great, though small in comparison to the voluminous amounts of text.
The book is nice. It's very simple, but you can feel a magic atmosphere when you read it. You don't even recognize that you're reading a Fairy Tale. The thing that have impressed me is Snow-white's age. She so young! How has she been able to get married? Otherwise, I think the books is just cute, so my grade is three stars.
I love the tiny lines of the Gag’s illustrations in her retelling of Snow White. This version is a bit wordy for sharing with really young kids, but it tells the full story rather than the Disney-fied short form, which I think focuses more on the romance than the wickedness of the queen. I was surprised at how late in the story the prince turns up!
I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book this afternoon. I'm so used to the Disney version of this story that it was refreshing to read another version. For Snow White to be a child was also new for me as I've always thought of her as a late teen who could marry the handsome prince. Sweet little illustrations add to the wonder of this work.
There is a special place in my heart for Wanda Gág - her illustrations are just so charming and delightful. I have a copy of one of her illustrations framed and hanging in my home (very #nerdybookclub of me, I know). She is also from Minnesota - and I also love to love hometown talents.This is one I would love to have a copy of in my personal collection.
A Caldecott Honor classic tale. But the art was just okay, and the story was the classic tale without improvements. If you are not the most beautiful in the world you should kill your rival, even if she is your seven year old step-daughter. And a woman's job is to clean up after men. And clearly a woman is too dumb to avoid being fooled three times - or perhaps only pretty ones.
Released independently the same year as the Disney film adaptation, and awarded a Caldecott Honor, this version is more faithful to the traditional story. The illustrations are pleasant, if not glorious, and the story is fun, but not sensational. The ending seems abrupt and not well concluded.
This book tells the original classic tale of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. This book contains few illustrations, so it relies on very descriptive details to creative a children's masterpiece. I would recommend this for lower education (k-2).
1939 Caldecott HonorI remember reading this one as a child. The pictures were very familiar to me. It has a very Goldilocks and the Three Bears feel to it in the middle. And I didn't realize she was born in MN. I have been to her hometown.
This is a translation of the fairy tale from the Brothers Grimm. I'm so used to the Disney version of the story, I had forgotten how different it is from the original fairy tale. It was a nice translation and I always enjoy Wanda Gag's illustrations.
Notes::Long book, but excellently writtenBeautiful illustrations scattered throughout
Caldecott honor.Lovely pictures. Closer to "original" story.
Traditional retelling with Queen trying to kill her three times, and a format like the Three Little Bears asking who ate and slept from the Dwarf's. The soft delicate illustrations are stunning.
I enjoyed the familiar story of Snow White. While I appreciate the black and white illustrations by Gag, there are other versions with color illustrations that I enjoy more.
I think for the time period of 1938 this was a good version of Snow White
The beloved classic tale written out in its old, original charm
