https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/394228.Well_Schooled_in_Murder
Well Schooled in Murder is a 1991 publication, written by Elizabeth George and published by Bantam.Inspector Lynley and detective Barbara Havers, and forensic scientist, Simon Allcourt St. James, investigate the death of a 13 year old boy at the prestigious Bredgar Chambers school.The death of Matthew Whateley hits everyone hard.
Little Matthew seemed to be know a little more than he should and it may have gotten him killed.The truth comes at a very high price indeed when another tragedy occurs.In the background of this sensitive story is the anguish the parents go through and the personal lives of those involved in the investigation.Elizabeth George is one of the best British Mystery authors out there.
This is the third book in the Inspector Lynley Series.I read this book as a buddy read with a GR friend and it was a lot of fun.Lynley is asked to investigate a missing child at a private school, and he and Havers are thrust into a world of lies, intrigue, and twisted passions, thinly veiled in upper-class civility.
Detective Inspector Thomas Lynley & Detective Sergeant Barbara Havers investigate the murder of a schoolboy tortured and dumped in a churchyard.
Well-Schooled in Murder (Inspector Lynley, #3) by Elizabeth George.To say this story held my attention would be words...just words.
Words that captured my attention and held me fast.
A past that might lead to a future if confronted.
Unfulfilled unless that confrontation takes place.Inspector Lynley and Lady Helen are far from together.
Lady Helen is off somewhere in Greece with just short postcards arriving for Lynley.
When will this heaviness on her shoulders be lessened to free her to at long last live her own life?Our story begins with Deborah on assignment in a cemetery taking photographs.
John Corntel was the young lad's head master and Inspector Lynley's classmate at Eton.
As soon as I started the book I was hooked, again!WELL-SCHOOLED IN MURDER(Inspector Lynley: #3)Written by Elizabeth George1989, 432 PagesBantam BooksGenre: mystery, british, suspense, police4 1/2Thirteen year old, Matthew Whately is missing from his prestige school, Bredgar Chambers.
Lynley and Havers were on the missing person case due to Lynley's school "friendship" with Bredgar Chamber's housemaster.
I also liked that this book was balanced quite well with the case and the personal issues of the main characters.
As Lynley, Havers and Simon try to solve this case we also get a glimpse of their own humanness.
I can't understand why now, I love her and want to read everything she has written.
This is a story about a murder at a posh boarding school, a thirteen year old boy is murdered and his body is dumped in a graveyard, some distance from the school.
This is a story you will find harrowing, the grief is palpable from the boys parents and it is something that will almost bring even the most cynical and hardened individual to the brink of tears.
Havers is also having family problems again and coming to the conclusion she will no longer be able to take care of her parents on her home.
Von Anfang an hab ich mich sofort wieder zuhause gefühlt und bin mit Lynley und Havers den Spuren gefolgt, die die beiden Ermittler in ein angesehenes Elite Internat führen.Von Anfang an spannend - wie immer mit mehreren Verdächtigen und verschlungenen Motiven wusste man bis zum Schluss nicht wirklich, wie alles zusammenhängt.
beim Bund, dann fragt man sich schon, was da so zwischen den "Neulingen" und den "Alteingesessenen" so abgeht.An manchen Stellen war ich etwas verblüfft über die direkte Ansprache der jüngeren Schüler auf bestimmte Dinge, brutale Dinge die den Mord betreffen, was heutzutage wohl nicht mehr möglich wäre bzw.
Oh, the crimes and criminals and secrets were being exposed as fast and furious as a hail storm - but not the murderer of a 13-year-old student, Matthew Whately, attending Bredgar Chambers, a financially tottering and doddering independent English school teaching 'B' list aristocrat children, mostly boys from 13 to 18.
However, this is an entitled community of blackguards and repressed sexuality, long used to presenting a surface conformity and centuries-old, publicly enforced strict rules and rituals, while indulging in wild drunken or obscenely punitive parties behind closed doors and in dark hallways, with nothing ever ever to be exposed outside of the group.Lynley finds himself more than understanding the school rituals and secret codes, having gone to school at Eton.
No one can do a twisty turny mystery like Elizabeth George. I am so incredibly happy that I decided to reread these books and go through the entire series, its like getting a present every time I open one of her books.
Lynley and Havers investigate the disappearance of a schoolboy from an independent school and find there are more leads and details than necessary to solve the crime.
As I have come to expect, author Elizabeth George uses her characters well, injecting comedic humor as needed to lighten the mood as the two detectives become ever more embroiled in the darker aspects of this crime.
While I was able to guess the perpetrator before the ‘big reveal’ that did not detract from my enjoyment of the story.
I find George’s mysteries to be engaging and well-written and have a few more to read from the library.
I am addicted to this  Elizabeth  George  police procedural series, which focuses on the murder committed as well as the private life of the investigators, which I wanted to follow for long (and which somewhat seems akin to a soap opera)This time Lynley's childhood friend, John Hart wants him to go looking for a boy missing from the prestigious boarding school in which he is an English teacher, plus a house master.
John has some culpability as he didn't take care of his duties that week.Lynley reluctantly agreeable and by the time they reach the school they find that the 13 year old boy, Mathew Wakely is dead.The whole school and its inmates are in scrutiny and dirty secrets tumble our with alarming frequency.
Well and densely plotted, but the cameos of the lower classes, as usual, grate. And how believable is it that (non-fundamentalist) marriages come to the brink of destruction because someone fails to disclose a teenage abortion they had? Really, in 1991? Elizabeth George can't seem to resist these anachronisms, and Deborah and Simon St. James never add anything interesting to the plots.
Rating: 3.75* of fiveThe Book Report: Inspector Thomas Lynley is called to a snobby uppercrust English school by his Old Etonian pal, now a schoolmaster in the place, to investigate the disappearance of scholarship boy Matthew Whately.
Lynley and Havers spend a great deal of time chasing their own tails, interviewing people they don't suspect of the crime, and mucking about in the lives of the Great and the Good until they look like the Gross and the Godawful.
Worst of all is the vile, vile motive for the murder of the poor child: When it was revealed, I had to put the book down and cry.In the end, of course, the proper person is brought to justice.
Elizabeth George delivers a good mystery once again!
I love how each of the books has built on the central characters, in this one I felt especially close to BOTH Sergeant Havers and Lynley as they were dealing with equally distressing events in their personal lives.
As for the mystery, it was a great 'whodunit'.
I thought for sure I knew who the murderer would be and I was thrilled to be wrong!
The twists that came about in the plot were definitely surprising and that is always welcomed in a mystery novel.
I believe the last one I read was #13 in the Lynley/Havers/St.James series, and luckily for me, although the protagonists have lives outside of the investigation which continue to evolve book to book, this mystery can be read alone.
I will continue to read the series as I come across the books.
old boy missing from a prestigious school in West Sussex, and those responsible for his disappearance.
Many characters are culpable for something or other making it difficult to find the true villain in the boy's "mistreatment." Lots of interesting personalities, moral dilemmas and twists and turns.
As the author writes on page 8: “For the past two months Lynley had been burning the candle not only at both ends but right through the middle.”On one Sunday evening, Barbara Havers has just about convinced Lynley to leave the Yard when they are visited by John Corntel, one of Lynley’s old classmates from Eton.
And thus begins a most convoluted and emotionally draining murder mystery, because Matthew Whateley is not the first person to die at this school nor is he the last.
These elements of guilt, remorse and honor take Lynley and the reader through multiple dead ends, blind alleys and twists.
My motivation for reading mystery novels is to escape into plot and spend time with gifted detectives who are too perfect to be true.
But I also seek the satisfaction of seeing justice done and in this novel a horrendous plot point is introduced as a red herring.
So, though I enjoyed speed reading through this fast-paced novel, Lynley #3, I couldn't shake my disgust and disappointment about this one thing, which I won't identify, in order to prevent spoilers from creeping into my review.In George's books the murders are ugly and this one is particularly so, in which a young boy's naked body is discovered in an English cemetery.
Una principale ambientazione ombrosa e scolastica che mi ha ricordato l'amato "L'allievo" di Patrick Redmond, una macabra atmosfera tipicamente "biritish", fatta da silenziose e misteriose cittadine di campagna, foglie svolazzanti in cimiteri romantici, e bui chiostri di un austero college privato dove si celano segreti inconfessabili, e infine,una curiosa e perversa storia di sottofondo.
Ecco gli ingredienti di questo splendido giallo, che mi ha fatto riscoprire Elizabeth George con nuovi occhi, dopo la lettura del mediocre (per i miei gusti) "E liberaci dal padre".
There are just not that many people who can write this type of mystery, so I treasure the ones who do. Plots and characters and dark secrets. I've already forgotten who the murderer was, but who cares?
Sometimes George describes too much and slows the story down, but I'm also an impatient reader so I'm not the best judge of that, I guess. One thing I don't really like is that she focused a lot on Deborah and Simon and that does make it a deeper series overall, I'm here for Lynley and Havers and wish they were the focus.
This is the third book in this series, as with the first two I enjoyed the story, but what drove me crazy was the author's fixation with the British class system and how she thinks it works. As usual the upper classes are well-dressed and clean, whilst the working class folks are scruffy and fetid. I'll carry on though, albeit complaining as I go.
DNF page 109.Realistically, the murder case is only just beginning, but I'm tired of having secondary characters that I don't like and aren't particularly necessary shoved in my face and "conveniently" involved in the case in some vague way. *coughcough* Deborah. Simon St. James. Helen.
really enjoyed the setting of this mystery -- a boarding school in England. It's a world that fascinates me!
Third Inspector Lynley book and I loved it when I read it. Was and still is my fav out of all in the series that I read.
I liked this one. This series has been very comforting to me while I'm in the middle of what feels like a million transitions.
I also enjoyed a glimpse into the workings of an English upper-crust school along the lines of Eton, Harrow--or Hogwarts and how the old unwritten code played into the mystery of a young murdered boy--how it even ties into Lynley's own school ties since a schoolmaster involved was a schoolmate of the detective.
There's also a soap opera-like plot regarding the St James that has nothing to do with the mystery and I could have done without.Mind you, I do like that the detectives in the series have lives, and that those lives and biases impinge on their investigations.
Fourth chronologically and third in publishing order, this Inspector Lynley detective mystery series is set in modern-day England with this particular story set in West Sussex.My TakeThe very promising future of Matthew Whately was trashed…for such stupid reasons.
Lynley is especially tormented about school loyalties: he owes Corntel.
Then how George twists Corntel's comment about how easy everything comes to Lynley; the truth of that comment is particularly poignant at the end.
And I'm curious to see how George changes Havers' life in the next book in this series, 
Not only will the mainplot keep you reading and wondering, but the subplots are interesting,too.
In fact, I often complain a little about the length of theseElizabeth George books, but not so this one.Lynley has been called to a boarding school rich in tradition.
Lynley has to peel back the dark and murkysecrets of the school-a place far more interested in protecting itsreputation and image than in helping Lynley and his partner get at thetruth.There's a heart-rending subplot here, too, that involves Lynley'slong-time forensics specialist friend Simon ST.
There is a two-sentencedescription of an abortion in this book.
And when Matthew Whateley turns up dead, then it's become a serious matter between them all.
For Havers, who have some family issues to contend with at home, it's up to her and Lynley to talk to everyone involved with Matthew's life at home and in school.
With every twisting turn ahead of them, there's more players involved in the scandal.
Everything's not what it seems at the prep school, when there's secrets and lies at every angle.
We root for Lynley and Havers to discover the truth culprit or culprits and feel a tug in our heart for Matthew's family at the shocking truth behind it all.
The murder mystery itself wasn't necessarily very novel or unique (and near the end it gave in to one of the old hack tricks -- where each character in turn is accused of being the murderer, only to spill a clue which leads to the accusation of the next character), and it was also a little unpleasant at times (not only did it deal with a rather graphic and unpleasant crime, but all of the characters had pretty miserable incidents in their lives -- senile parents to care for, unrequited love, an abortion leading to infertility, suicide, sexual torture, pedophilia, divorce, an unloving father, the death of a father...I'm not sure anyone in the book was actually happy, until they threw two or three of the characters a bone in the final chapter).
The characterization was incredible -- probably the best I've ever read in a mystery novel.
George has a deft hand with detail, sometimes too much, but the images make her work come alive.
The relationship between Inspector Lynley, so well portrayed on Tv, and Sergeant Havers is, for me, a rich addition to the story, as we perceive how their different backgrounds influence their actions and interactions.
The inspector is unlike the usual laconic bachelor or womanizing "private eye." George has an intelligent, literary style.
Her characters breathe in her rich and "deadly" accurate works.
I could not put this book down until the mystery was solved.
This is the third book of George's that I have read.
