https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2444322.When_the_World_Shook
and what the sword spares class shall snatch from class in the struggle for supremacy and ease.' Quite a lot of good moments in this sci-fi adventure story.
Its pretty obvious where things are going even if you havn't read any other Haggard stories.
If you have read some of his other books however then a lot of this will feel very familiar.Given its publishing in 1919 you might expect some influence from the war but despite the storyline lending itself well to that Haggard seems to almost resent having to acknowledge the conflict.
There are three friends -- one an absolutely unwavering skeptic, another a completely faithful believer, and the third and central character a man who falls somewhere in between, a man looking for meaning to life.
Haggard repeatedly suspends the main narration, which involves a sea voyage and terrible storm that finds the three men cast away on an uncharted island, replete with the proverbial "lost world" elements that Haggard is known for.
This is, in short, a fairly entertaining "lost world" novel, but not on a par with other Haggard I've read.
Originally called "The Glittering Lady," the novel was ultimately released in 1919 under the title we know today, "When the World Shook," and turned out to be still another wonderful book from this celebrated author, in which many of his old favorite themes (lost civilizations, reincarnation, love that survives beyond the grave) are revisited, but with a new spin.
Chapter 20, "Oro and Arbuthnot Travel by Night," in which the pair's spirits wander the Earth and see the horrors of modern-day warfare, is one of the most unusual passages in all the 35 Haggard novels that I've read so far.
Published in 1919The story centers upon the proverbial "lost world" elements that Haggard is known for.
There are three friends -- one an absolutely unwavering skeptic, (a talented surgeon Beckley), another a completely faithful believer (a minister Bastin who is a pain in the butt), and the third and central character a man, Arbuthnot, who falls somewhere in between, a man looking for meaning to life.
The story line is constantly interupted with philosophical discussions and counter arguments between intellegent skeptic Beckley and dogmatic minister Bastin.
Not surprising, the story is about reincarnation love which is a usual motif in Haggard hostorical romances.
But like fellow Victorians Arthur Conan Doyle or Robert Louis Stevenson or Rudyard Kipling, Haggard really could spin a good yarn, and the fantasy genre in general owes him a great debt.
Ten of his books are on my bookshelves.
My favorite of his novels involved Ayesha, known as She-Who-Must-Be-Obeyed, especially the book Wisdom's Daughter.
Of the ten Haggard books on my shelves, with the exception of She and Allan, this is my least favorite, the one I remember least vividly, and those aspects I do remember (reincarnated love, near immortals, lost civilizations) are the ones repeated in book after book by Haggard.
That said, this is entertaining, and definitely even the lesser of Haggard books makes many a contemporary fantasy seem rather pallid.
When the World Shook was first published in serial form in the British Christian evangelical magazine The Quiver in 1918, at the end of the war, and was released as a novel the following year.The author, Sir Henry Rider Haggard, wrote adventure novels set in exotic locations, predominantly Africa – such as King Solomon’s Mines (1885), Allan Quatermain (1887) and She (1887) – and was a pioneer of the “lost world” literary genre, of which When the World Shook is a late example.Haggard was a close friend of Rudyard Kipling, and Sir Henry’s biographer Morton Cohen says Kipling provided the idea for When the World Shook.
While exploring the world on a private yacht, a colossal cyclone strands them on an uncharted South Pacific island populated by natives who worship a strange deity named Oro. When the trio is forced to flee the wrath of the natives after Bastin's misguided efforts to convert them to Christianity, they take shelter in the taboo cave where the deity lives.
Oro and his daughter Yva wake up after being in suspended animation for exactly 250,000 years.
Oro doesn't like what the world has become, and vows to wipe it out just as he did a quarter-million years ago.
"What you think magic - is not magic." - The Lady YvaIn When the World Shook, H.
Rider Haggard manages to mix together a quarter of a million year old culture, epistemological mysteries and theological philosophy, prescient seafarers, death dealing glances, World War I, a "Journey to the Center of the Earth", advanced flying machines, storms at sea, a lost island, telepathy and 4th dimensional teleportation, suspended animation, ancient Armageddon, idol worshipers, hints at space travel, long dead cities and even a couple of love triangles without missing a beat.The story is a thoroughly entertaining adventure.
Conclusion-wise, it's quite satisfying and the tale wraps up in a somewhat unexpected manner.
Very impressive.
This is an excellent example of narrative fiction. Haggard make the reader feel as though they are sitting in the pleasantly-narcissistic Humphrey Arbuthnot's drawing room with a cup of tea, while the old man takes advantage of having an audience to recount his self-absorbed, youthful adventures. The story itself is steeped in Masonic mysticism and is a lively, sometimes humorous adventure. While a late work for Haggard, it is a very good place for readers to introduce themselves to his vast library of adventure stories.
Clearly this was written early in the twentieth century and the English used is a little aged but the story is one of the better motifs that there is in science fiction / horror. I've read better but by the same token I've read many that were worse.
I think I only needed to read one H. Rider Haggard book in my life. I should have stopped with She. This book is fun, but it really drags (and the edition I read had already been abridged.)
I quite enjoyed reading this fictional work because it frequently depicted scenes and situation which made me reflect on my own worldview and position regarding the issues at hand. If you allow yourself to be drawn into the story it becomes more than just a work of fantasy.Unfortunately, the edition I read was a Project Guttenberg ebook version and I found it poorly formatted in comparison to what I have come to expect from a Kindle Edition.
"Cuando el mundo se estremeció" es un relato entretenido, precursor de la ciencia ficción, que presenta una cosmovisión interesante; a través de los protagonistas, va entretejiendo interpretaciones de los hechos de acuerdo al pensamiento objetivo, a la crítica científica, a la fe cristiana, a la creencia mitológica y al amor. Evidentemente, no pueden conciliarse, y me parece una invitación a confrontar y afianzar las creencias y principios del lector.
Haggard era uno spiritualista; credeva che, oltre la scienza e la religione, fosse possibile un'altra spiegazione del mondo, basata sull'amore, che rende l'anima eterna. Convinzione che forse deriva dal fatto che non riuscì, in vita, a sposare l'unica donna che affermò di aver mai amato.Il suo spiritualismo si riflette in molti dei suoi libri, ad esempio nella serie "She". Però in "When the world shook" mette a confronto tutte e tre le visioni nei personaggi di un medico, un prete e il protagonista in un'avventura simile a "She".Il libro è carino, anche se, a tratti, poco scorrevole.
WorldWell, I have to say that one chapter did not get my attn. Very tied up with individual stuff that just did not grab me. Compared to his alternates of that day, not too interesting.
Reviewed by Sandy: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
A good read !
