https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1767774.The_Moonflower_Vine
Thank you to Goodreads friend Celia, whose review of this lovely book first brought it to my attention.The Moonflower Vine was published in 1962 and was re-released in 2009 with a Foreword by Jane Smiley.
At that time this book was the only one written by the author (1913 – 1999) and, as Jane Smiley pointed out, it was not about politics or any of the big topics of the day.
While we experienced each person through their thoughts and feelings, we were also able to notice scenes and events around each person – sometimes ones they were not fully aware of themselves.This family saga is like a marvelous, leisurely walk through another time and place.
A fellow librarian recommended the book to me, and I'm so glad I sought it out.The Moonflower Vine is set in rural Missouri and follows the Soames family: Parents Matthew and Callie, and four daughters, named Jessica, Leonie, Mary Jo and Mathy.
The story opens with three of the daughters -- now adults and some with children of their own -- visiting the farm one summer in the 1950s.
It's in the following sections of the book that the reader learns the family history, and we see that the daughters' childhood was not as quiet as it appears.
First we learn Jessica's story, the eldest daughter, who was determined to follow her heart.
The farm was a little island in a sea of summer. Damn, this was good!I usually snort at female centric novels like this one, those family sagas that span decades, and have a lot of kissing and man/woman stuff, but once again - DAMN! This was GOOD!You can read the Goodreads description or some of the reviews if you want more of a blow-by-blow description. This one is exceptional - https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Here's why I think this book should be on your to-read list.Carleton's writi
Damn, this was good!I usually snort at female centric novels like this one, those family sagas that span decades, and have a lot of kissing and man/woman stuff, but once again - DAMN!
This was GOOD!You can read the Goodreads description or some of the reviews if you want more of a blow-by-blow description.
"Poor old Aunt Cass," Mama said, referring to Ophelia's mother.
They stood white and peaceful in the moonlight."Good evening," he said aloud, as to old friends, and moving among the familiar furniture of the dead, he began to feel calmer.
The Moonflower Vine, written in 1962 by Jetta Carleton, is considered a 'rediscovered classic'.
This is the edition I read.The book starts in the 1950's when The Soames family is getting ready for a summer reunion.
The novel is then divided into five sections, relating the individual stories and secrets of Jessica, Matthew, Mathy, Leonie and Callie.
The novel is a loving exploration of sensitive topics of family life.
Carleton seems to have started a second novel, but its pages were presumably lost in a tornado in 2003.I really was blown away by this book.
My love for this book proves it.5 Moony Stars.
I recommend avoiding the commentaries until after you've read the book.
It would have considerably diminished my enjoyment of the book if I'd read the summaries and assessments beforehand.
This story is quaint, charming, old-fashioned, sometimes sad, and very well written.
The book starts in the voice of Mary Jo Soames, the youngest daughter by a far margin.
From there it goes back in time to explore the joys and struggles of the various family members.
And besides all that, it's just a thoroughly enjoyable, revealing, sometimes funny story about a bygone time with no running water or 'lectricity.
The last chapter of Callie's story, when she suddenly finds herself an old woman and the reader suddenly discovers that half a century has passed with the Soameses, is one of the most penetrating insights into aging that I have ever read."The Moonflower Vine" contains as many tragedies as a family could normally expect in half a century, but not too many, and overall it is an affirming and empowering novel.
Indeed it appears that story has autobiographic similarities to the author's childhood.The narrative is structured in an interesting way by beginning at the chronological ending, then skipping around through the preceding half century devoting a chapter per family member, and then ending fourteen days prior to the book's beginning.
The beginning and ending of the story's narrative takes place in the 1950s and focuses on the return of three adult daughters to the family farm where their parents still live for a two week summer visit and reunion.
I first read this novel in 1974 when I was 18, and I have read it every year since.
Before it was rediscovered and reprinted, I bought every used copy I could find and gave them away, sometimes as many as six a year.
Everyone who reads it is immediately drawn in, because it is a perfectly balanced, beautifully structured story about people you don't know, but wish you did.
If To Kill a Mockingbird is the iconic novel of the mid 20th century South, then The Moonflower Vine serves the same purpose for the Midwest.
It deserves to be widely read.
When I was a little girl, I would watch things like figure skating, baseball, and gymnastics and think, "wow, I can do that.
However, when look deeper, you realize that this is a masterpiece of writing and it is not simple in the least.
It isn't until you are finished with the book, or at least a good pace into it, that you realize how perfect the narrative is.
It amazes me how the narrative forms a perfect circle.
Additionally, Carleton's writing style is immaculate.
It's never too little or too much, it's just....perfect.
Mucho mejor la segunda mitad que la primera.
Los numerosos diálogos, muy ágiles, facilitan la lectura, y hacen que sea una historia absolutamente normal y real con personajes creíbles, historias reconocibles, emociones humanas y habituales.Los personajes muy bien dibujados,y da la sensación de que la autora sólo nos muestra lo que hay, nos invita a contemplar un paisaje real de la evolución en el tiempo de una familia con sus contradicciones, lastres y alegrías.Aunque el personaje de Mary Jo, me parecía absolutamente prescindible.
After 20 years of obscurity, The Moonflower Vine by Jetta Carelton, was re-issued recently after author Jane Smiley cited it as one of 100 great novels in her book, Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Novel.Why this book ceased to hold the interest of readers is a mystery.
The tale of the Soames family spans 60 years beginning at the turn of the 20th century.
Each section of the book is narrated by a different member of the family.
Her secrets seemed forced and manipulated and not in harmony with the woman described throughout the book.
Have you ever felt like you have closed the cover on the best book you’ve ever read?
She says, "Jetta Carlson wrote only this novel, which appears to be autobiographical, at least in part, but Carleton's style is so dense and precise and her method of imagining the inner lives of each character so daring that she seems to have been unconstrained by fears either of remembering things wrongly or of offending her relatives." (page 306 in the hardcover edition)Smiley also wrote the foreward to the 2009 Harper Perennial reprint of The Moonflower Vine, and positions the novel at the immediate forefront of the women's movement, a year before Betty Friedan published The Feminine Mystique.
1962 was that pivotal year and Smiley points out that Ms Carleton "managed to write her novel in a nonpolitical way; her subject matter has become political in spite of her efforts."The appeal of The Moonflower Vine to me was exactly as Jane Smiley indicated.
Four daughters, two houses, small but tight community, and simplicity of a faith and chore centered existence.This book has such descriptions of natural woodland, creek, and farm field beauty that it sincerely made me feel the sway and tune of the dance in the midst of the fireflies after watching the moonflower night bloom, counting them as they spiral open and twirling to their number.
Tremendous joys, bottomless sorrow, and one small lie amongst 100,000 truths of 60 years duration.
All of that lives where this Moonflower Vine blooms.The only section in which I felt some impatience was Matthew's.
¡Qué novela más maravillosa! Leerla te reconcilia con la buena literatura. Con toques intimistas y un ritmo narrativo lento pero seguro, la narradora va hilando la historia de una familia en la que todos sus miembros (personajes nítidos, muy bien dibujados, con sus luces y sus sombras) esconden secretos para garantizar la convivencia. En esta obra se ríe, se respira, se llora y se ama, se duda y se avanza, en definitiva, se vive.Puedes leer la reseña completa en http://elmomentoderaquel.blogspot.com...
I couldn't help making comparisons the whole time I was reading this to Little Women, although I liked this book more. The characters were dynamic and three-dimensional and I liked the approach of delving into the family members one-at-a-time. If I consider this a classic (as some people do), I loved it. If I compare it to other books I'm reading these days, it was still a great character study, but the it lacked some oomph. As a minor critique, I thought the section on Callie did not do her justice as the matriarch of the family.
The Moonflower Vine, by Jetta Carlson, originally published in 1962, is an old favorite my sister and I discovered years ago.
I liked it so much, I bought my own hardcopy (the original being my sister's), as well as a beat up paperback to carry in my beach bag.
It is the story of four sisters and their parents, and how life bends and shapes them through the years.
I originally thought of my grandmother and my mother's aunts the first time I read the book, that this is what it must have been like growing up in the early 1900's - 1920's.
Absolutely perfect!
I admit I am a sucker for books set in an era long past, and even moreso for books detailing a family saga.
There is nothing I love better than to watch a family grow and change through the years.
What makes this novel so interesting is that it begins at the end, when the Soames girls are all grown, home for a couple of weeks in the summer to visit their parents Matthew and Callie.
It's only as the reader makes her way through the novel that the truths are revealed.
This book started off as a sleepy little family tale, then flourished into an epic of the Soames family in Missouri. Each character had their own part of the saga to tell - from Matthew's indiscretions to Jessica's first love - and each of the stories was interwoven with the others in such a way as to make these characters real and flawed and their stories heartbreaking and triumphant. Once I started getting into the story, I could not put this book down.
DNFWe were split down the middle again I'm this one. Half loved it, going so far as to say it was as good or better than To Kill a Mockingbird. I and the other half couldn't finish it.
Really appreciated the writing - beautiful narrative, the author really brings us inside the characters, dialogue is well-placed.
Well.This was a really good read, mostly narrative, about a MO family before WWII and up to modern times, splitting their time between city and country.
Lots of contrasts and people calibrating various choices.The writing is straightforward, definitely NOT flowery or sentimental.
Nowadays, perfectly respectable people went to shows on Sunday, they went dancing and played cards; lots of girls even smoked - and it didn't mean they were going to hell.
The Moonflower Vine by Jetta Carleton is the story of a family living and growing in rural Missouri.
Matthew is a schoolteacher, more than willing to escape into his work and books even if it means his family comes second.
Mary Jo is the baby of the family, growing up in a time so different from the rest of her sisters.This is a timeless novel where each character carries a secret burden.
Each comes to terms with his or her faults and learns to live with them and sometimes in spite of them.This was the most realistic novel I have ever read in my life.
It is the portrait of the Soames family who live in rural Missouri.
The Soames family is composed of Matthew and Callie and their four daughters.
There are 6 parts to the book and each part is given from the perspective of each family member.
We each have our own perspective of what we are experiencing.The descriptions of their farm remind me so much of the area where I live today and remind me of the simplicity of rural life when I was a child.This is a book that I will want to reread again.
It was okay; but it was so bogged down in the small-town/farm interactions and activities, and very light on any lessons learned or self-awareness on the characters' parts.
After the tragedy that befalls Mathy (and the entire Soames family), we glimpse how the devastating loss changes the whole family and gets the characters to do some serious soul-searching and reflecting upon the meaning of their lives and the decisions they've made.
The second half of the book was much better than the forgettable first part; but people who grew up in small towns/farming communities might enjoy the descriptions of the simple life with all their Christian underpinnings and social propriety.
A story of a Missouri family during the first half of the 20th century.
Matthew and Callie Soames create a life for themselves and raise four headstrong daughters.
Over the decades, they will love, deceive, comfort, and forgive; and ultimately, they will cherish the bonds of love that hold them together.The story is told in turns by the viewpoints of each daughter and Matthew; each of their stories are almost complete on their own, but the last story told, that of Callie's, ties them all together.I really enjoyed this story; the reviews I have read say that it was an overnight sensation when first published in 1962, and reading it, I can see why.
A well done story of about 50 years in the life of a rural family, each one with a secret.
Some of the writing in this book is breathtaking, so perfectly descriptive that I found myself re-reading passages for the sheer beauty of it. I don't often finish a book and find myself wanting to begin it again immediately--I do with this one. Definitely deserving of the reissue and rediscovery promoted by author, Jane Smiley. Highly recommended!
This came to me with a lovely note from my mom telling me that she first read it at 13 and just found and re-read. With a recommendation like that, how could I go wrong ? It's a book of quiet longing, spare, and an interesting story of the Midwest and the depression era . A bit too sad to be a favorite, but I definitely feel that the vines of the story will hold me for a long time.
I sure hope I don't jinx it but 2017 has been a great reading year for me.
By some happy chance, I've managed to pick up nothing but wonderful books.
I finally got around to picking it up again this year and am so happy I did.
I love family sagas, I love books set in the country and I love flawed but thoroughly loveable and relatable characters.
If you haven't yet read this rediscovered classic, I highly recommend that you do!
It is a great spring or summer read--not too light but thoroughly enjoyable and beautiful.
The author captures a different time and place, a rural farm town family in Missouri circa 1920’s, with such honesty, love, and sensitivity I can’t wait to read this book again. Jetta Carleton writes so beautifully about each member of this family. She captures their flaws and complexities with such a loving hand that I ended up caring deeply about each of them. There is no huge problem to be overcome or heroics in this novel, but simple and profound truths about life and family.
This was a delightful soak-it-up slow sort of read with lots of complexity and perspectives and depth. I thoroughly enjoyed it! The author had a way with words which I find so rarely anymore and that made this all the more delightful.
