https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184442.The_Catholic_Church_and_Conversion
The Catholic Church and Conversion, by G.K. Chesterton. A quick and easier read than other Chesterton works, but as timeless as the rest. Chesterton has an amazing knack of putting into words that which is hard to say. It followed so closely the undercurrents of my own conversion, it was as if I was reading my own story written a hundred years before my time. A fantastic book for anyone looking to understand the process of conversion to The Catholic Faith.
Chesterton articulates much of my own internal experiences, as a convert. He effortlessly formulates thoughts for essences I merely sensed. I experienced this book as; "Ahh. I DO get it!"
Four stars ‘cause Chesterton’s awesome. Three stars to my reading ability, ‘cause he’s writing for a audience 100 years ago...and some of it just goes right over my head. But when he’s good...he is SO good.
Supongo que será maravilloso pero es muy difícil de entender para mi.No sé si incluso sería difícil de entender en español.No tenía que haber sido tan osado.
Sed contra: Um, because it feels cool and pagan.Argument 2: Why use the Scriptures to judge Church Tradition?
Sed contra: Aw, come on, G.K.Argument 3: What's the big deal with Priests?
Also the celibacy--didn't Peter and the others have wives?Argument 4: You make also sorts of false accusations: "Any manual would tell him that there is no sin "for which there is no absolution"; not disobeying the priest; not assassinating the Pope." Sed contra: Um, my grandparents grew up thinking it was mortal sin not to go to Church every Sunday.
Sed contra: dangerous argument.
This volume in particular resonated with me.
Chesterton makes it clear that it is a deeply personal work for him, and given my own recent decision to convert to Catholicism it was for me a deeply personal read.
Few books I've read have so perfectly transcended the gap between author and reader as this one did for me.The "Apostle of Common Sense" lays out the claim for Catholicism in his own particular style.
This is a volume I'll be revisiting often and has instantly earned a place among my favorite books.
This is a very interesting look at the reasons why Chesterton converted to Anglicanism then to Roman Catholicism. It is almost a sequel to Orthodoxy. Where in Orthodoxy is argues for the claims of Christianity, here is he argues that the only Christianity that exists is Roman. While I might disagree with that statement, in that Catholicism is the Church. I disagree that Rome has an exclusive claim, though an ancient one for sure.
A great book describing conversion. Converts to the Catholic Church are, in my experience, often misunderstood. I say this as one myself. Chesterton goes a long way towards explaining how we come to be what we become. To be honest I am not very fond of his use of paradox, but he puts it to good use here and there are a number of pithy and trenchant observations of the world to be found in the book which are no less relevant today than a century ago. Very highly recommended.
At times brilliant, at others terribly partisan; Chesterton carries on that great Catholic assumption that history is on the side of Rome, but neglects the greater doctrinal differences which truly distinguished the Reformation in the history of the Church.
Recommended by James Schall in Another Sort of Learning, Bibliography.
Simple logic, witty writing style, and you can probably finish the whole text in a day off. :-)
Bleh. Chesteron says the first stage of a convert is to do justice to Catholicism, yet he doesn't seem to follow his own advice when critiquing Protestants.
Oh boy . . .
