https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1027175.Peek_a_Boo
A beautiful book for little ones, with piles of 1940s detail to discuss in the pictures. A word of warning, though: because I'm a bit dense, it took me a few goes to realise that the baby's father was not in fact in the Home Guard or the like, but actually on his last day of leave from the War (you see him gradually getting dressed in his army uniform over the course of the book). I now have a bit of trouble getting through the last pages without becoming teary...
This is such a fun little book! I love the "peek through" pages where you get a glimpse of what is going on with the baby's family in another part of their house/yard. Super cute illustrations are full of detail but not too "busy" for little ones.
5* art5* story/poem/conceptThe perfect marriage of writing and illustrating. Absolutely love the details, which are so true to life (the baby watches the tassels on his Grandma's shawl waving in the breeze).You were right, Overbylass. We love it.
This book tells the story of what a baby (around 10 months old) sees and does during the day.
This book could also be used with older children, perhaps in year 2 to year 4, to discuss the images (When were they set?
Do we wear those clothes now?) and that it is set during the war.
This book is an enjoyable read for children in Foundation Stage but once the book is looked at in more details there are plenty of opportunities for book talk, regardless of age, which add to the story and meaning.
Things that perhaps the older children and adults are not noticing as they are so busy doing different things.
My daughter loves this book as the well detailed large pictures help her to envisage what he is seeing.
Also she has a baby brother who is of similar age, so it helps her to relate to the story.
She always relates this story to our family, so I would be the dad and her brother would be the baby and so on.
I believe it could also help children and adults to see life through differing perspectives.
A darling little rhyming book about a day in the life of a baby and his family. I believe the family is English since some of the words are not in common usage here. I read it to my granddaughter and she loved it as well. Truly lived up to its reviews.
While the rhyming in this book is lovely, and the pictures are sweet, the story and characters are very gender stereotyped. Mum has curlers in her hair; Grandma irons etc. Baby is too impatient to sit through the full verse and the pages get turned rather quickly, so I edit out the gender-restrictive parts.
This book is about a baby and what he sees through out his day. There is a cut out on every page that children could look through. The pictures and text seemed super busy to me and there was just a lot going on in this book. Not sure it would hold a young ones interest for to long but I could see lots of possibilities for looking further into the pictures.
Peek-A-BooPublished 1997, copyright 1981, Viking, The Penguin Group, isbn 0670871923A delightful and interactive peek-a-boo book for babies and young children. The book also hides a deeper message about family love in wartime England.  While the Booklist review on the back of this book recommends it as a first book for babies, it is interesting enough on different levels that it can grow with your child until he or she is an early reader. The most obvious interactive feature that would appeal to
Peek-A-BooPublished 1997, copyright 1981, Viking, The Penguin Group, isbn 0670871923A delightful and interactive peek-a-boo book for babies and young children.
Peek-A-Boo was chosen as one of ALA's Books to Grow On in 2003, indicating that the ALA agreed that the book’s appeal spans a wide age group.Horn Book Magazine, Peek-a-Boo, Staff review, Mar/Apr91, Vol. 67, Issue 2Nickerson, Mary B.
Peek-a-boo (Book Review) School Library Journal, Jan82, Vol. 28 Issue 5p58 Sharman, Judith, Books for Keeps No. 107, November 1997
Most young children will be able to relate to a character, or relate a family member to a character the book has portrayed.
This is great for discussion with younger children.
For example, ‘what do you think he will see next’ and ‘what does the black and white TV tell us about the story?’ Great rhyme and rhythm are used throughout the book which makes it fun to read.
You could discuss the perspectives of other characters in the book, for example, ‘what do you think Mum is thinking?’ and so on.
Throughout the day and the story, the baby is watching what is going on around him, for example his dad sleeping, mum cooking, grandma putting out clothes and so on.This book contains a hole in the middle of the page so the audience can only see a small part of what the boy is seeing until we turn the page.
Therefore this is great for story time amongst the Early Years and Key Stage One as it promotes children to guess what else the baby can see, for example 'He sees his sisters skipping'.
This is a great picture book for Early Years Foundation Stage, giving teacher's the opportunity to introduce the early Historical concept of old and new.
Reading this with a class and pointing to the old furniture, clothes and food and asking 'Do we think these are items from this time, or the past?'.
Its also a great book for getting the whole class engaged and the repetitive 'Peepo!' gets every child involved and joining in, and offers you the chance to ask lots of thought provoking questions throughout the book.
The book starts off by showing a picture of a toddler in her crib and has rhyming lines to set the tone of the book and create a jolly mood for the reader.
The toddler or baby looks out from his cot, chair, pushchair etc.
There are holes cut out in the book to show beautiful watercolour images and the text provides much to talk about because it outlines different subjects and objects.
Children can play games with adults or themselves by trying to find different objects in the pictures (as most of the scenes are quite cluttered), which means the detail is brilliant.
If you look carefully at the illustrations of this book, you can pick the WWII theme, which gives the book a time and setting.
Upper KS2 children may use this book during their topic lessons on WWII, they may want to pick out the importance of family during this time, such as when the dad is bathing the baby and kissing him goodnight.
Furthermore, KS1 children may also appreciate the rhyming nature of the book and may want to create their own one during a literacy lesson, which focuses on their lives.
This has been a firm favourite since my oldest child was a baby and we own a well loved copy.The boo

A classic peek-a-boo book.
My children adore this book.A joy to read from start to finish.
23-month old little-AJ and Mummy fell into love with this book the very first time we read it.
There is a cut-out hole at each alternative page, showing us what the little baby (perhaps 10 months old?) sees while looking around his surroundings at different times of a day.
The scene settings are probably in the 1940s war-time period, with old-fashioned pram, lavatory separate from house, coals for fireplace, vintage-looking radio, and the occasional black-and-white photographs framed and hung on walls.
We can always spot something new and find some fresh surprises every time we look at the pictures.
Literature Requirement: Baby BookNumber of pages: 32Age level: 2 and upGenre: poetry/fictionCopyright: Jane and Allan AhlebergBook Format: Board BookThis board book is about a little baby boy and everything he sees and experiences during a day.
Throughout the book, one page will say where he is and then ask "what does he see?" The right page has a cut out circle that shows a glimpse of what it is.
Underneath the cut out circle it says "peek-a-boo!" and when the page is turned there is a description of what he sees as well as the full picture.
It would be a great book to read aloud to a child.
I loved this book when my children were young.
I can't imagine how many times I must have read it to them.
I used to be able to read it with my eyes closed as I knew it so well!
The illustrations are nostalgic 1940/50s domestic scenes and the rhymes are delightful.
It's sturdily made and the illustrations and text are beautiful and clear.
It brought back many very happy memories and I could remember all the verses!
She loves it already and I hope they soon have as many fond memories of this book as I do.
It took me awhile to really appreciate this book at it's beautiful illustrations. Eventually it became a favourite for all of us and an opportunity to talk about how the illustrations fit in to history and the events happening at that time.I've got it in board book format but given the discussions it could lead to, it might work better in picture book format, except the peep through pages would be more likely to get ripped.
Cute book with good and easy rhymes and good, detailed pictures.The idea of peeping is also a good one: slows down the reader to think what the baby would actually see! My little one likes to talk about what see sees regardless of verse, so it is a good way to build vocabulary!(I liked to connect with the pictures too, that tell of a different childhood.)
Here's a day in the life of a baby- what does he see? Scenes of his family in daily life from morning till evening. I want to say that the time period for these illustrations in the 1940s or 1950s. They definitely have a retro feel.
Peepo is such a beautiful and classic story! Miss 2 loves it and as she's grown older comments on more details in the pictures including the little toys in the page corners. I loved it when I was younger as well and am glad that I can share it again with her.
One of the first books we read to the kids
Addressed to young children, it has wonderful illustrations. They could look through the holes to pinpoint the details of the pictures.
This one feels a little dated but is very cute.
Could have been a 5 star, but the kid had a speech impediment when talking about 'people' calling them "Peepo!" I just can't condone this.... 😜
THIS BOOKS SHIT
