https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1905025.Granica
It's really weird - When I started this book all I could think about was 'Oh man, it's going to be so boring! Stupid school reading!'. But it turned out that it's really fascinating. There are so many things that makes you wonder about the future of whole society and the human rece. It's challenging and meaningful and it's impossible just to 'read it'. You have to 'understand it', you have to 'feel it' you have to 'see through it'.
1.5Beznadziejne, nie polecam
The biggest harm done to this book is forcing students to read it and overanalyzing it at school.Basicaly this book is about two people from different backgrounds who are attracted to eachother but in reality can only communicate through sex.
But as most of you should know relationships based on sex can't last (especialy if he is young rich boy with a fiancee and she is a mere cook) and reality can be quite hard.This book is bit slow, and quite depressing but if you think story like this might interest you it is definitely worth giving it a shot.
Gdyby Nałkowska żyła dziś, biegałaby w pierwszym rzędzie na zgromadzeniach antify i skandowałaby antykapitalistyczne hasła.
A mogę dać 0? To była najnudniejsza książka, jaką w życiu czytałam! Zepsuła mi całe ferie Bożonarodzeniowie!
The book is a masterpiece, but oh god it was just so hard to read sometimes... the main character and the society he lives in are so terrible I couldnt stand them
Very engaging story of two children grown in different families with different values, but with almost the same destiny. Ideals fall and passions play important role in there lives. Heroes are trapped in the new coming world of Socialist revolutions. The book is very realistic and engaging - each of us could have been Zenon Ziembewicz or Elzbieta Biecka. Strongly recommend as warning message before having close relationship with person out of your social class.
As much as I like books which focus on human psychology this one seemed to dwell on the source of motivation of the main characters way too much. Also, it was very boring and the way the ending od the book was relieved took away all of the feeling of suspense that could have been build along and used to catch the reader's attention.
Hard to understand story with great describes of reflections of characters.
3.5
Nowatorska.A jednak jedna z nielicznych, przez którą nie mogłem przebrnąć.Szalenie podoba mi się pomysł zaczęcia historii od końca.
Sama fabuła - w streszczeniu - wydaje się nawet ciekawa.A jednak czytając opisy pani Cecylii o jej rozmaitych koniugacjach koligacjach rodzinnych i spotkaniach przy herbatkach coś mnie tknęło.
Natknąwszy się po kilku stronach na przemyślenia pani Kolichowskiej o jej ogrodzie i psie Fitku (4 rozdział z 27) stwierdziłem, że raczej dam sobie spokój z tą lekturą.Czyżby była "zbyt" kobieca jak dla mnie?
Być może.Nie umiałem przez nią przebrnąć."Medaliony" tej autorki, choć zupełnie inne, są lepszym jej dziełem niż sztandarowa "Granica".Nie umiem jej przeczytać, choć ją doceniam.
Być może.
One of the most interesting school readings. Despite Nałkowska's style of writing, it is easy to read and you can finish it quite fast. Content forces us to reflect about many things, thanks to the interesting psychological threads. Definitely worth reading!
3,5 stars
The main character is under pressure of different social and moral situations and chanhes from an ambitious student into not entirely moral person what leads him to death.
Yeah. I needed this one. But it's not a masterpiece...
Nie przepadam za tą powieścią- jest niezmiernie nudna. Niemniej jednak należy docenić jej zakończenie.
