https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397369.Lucky_Starr_and_the_Pirates_of_the_Asteroids
One of the series Asimov wrote back in the fifties under the name Paul French. Intended for the young adult market and during the Cold War, both the politics and the science(they were based on knowledge of the planets at the time) are a bit dated. Still a fun read.
Lucky Starr and the Pirates of the Asteroids (Lucky Starr, #2), Isaac Asimov Lucky Starr and the Pirates of the Asteroids is the second novel in the Lucky Starr series, six juvenile science fiction novels by Isaac Asimov that originally appeared under the pseudonym Paul French.
The world of Isaac Asimov's Lucky Starr is a young science geek's wildest dream come true.
Imagine: a thousand years from now, the solar system's secret agents and protectors of the weak are...scientists!
Was his series of young-adult Lucky Starr novels merely the public expression of an escapist fantasy universe, or did he intend to win young, intelligent minds to scientific inquiry by showing just how cool science could be?Flush with victory against a criminal cabal on Mars, Lucky Starr next takes on the ruthless pirates of the asteroid belt, with nearly fatal consequences.
To me, this story is by far the weakest of the Lucky Starr series.
Good book, honestly I could see this book working as a movie today. The Blow gun space battle would be downright awesome. Space pirates! What more needs to be said.
I LOVED this book! I wish I could find the rest of this series!
The Lucky Starr books were Isaac Asimov's first attempt to write juvenile fiction.
They are quite competently written--they are by Asimov after all--but nothing really stands out in them.Lucky and his sidekick, Bigman Jones are the two main characters, and they are not very memorable.
Not bad, just--well, average.Frankly, if I wanted my children to reads juveniles sf, I would give him or her Andre Norton or Robert Heinlein.
Both of those writers are better for juveniles.Asimov is a superb write--but I feel his Robot stories--especially Caves of Steel--and his short stories are much more worth your time than the Lucky Starr series.Acceptable, routine adventure for juvenile readers aged 9 on up.
Technically not the best, but it was the first sci-fi, err..speculative fiction that I ever read. It opened the door for me.
Ho letto questo secondo libro non appena finito Il Vagabondo dello Spazio e devo dire che ho trovato questo breve romanzo peggiore del precedente... capiamoci, non è brutto, ma più banale e a parer mio più prevedibile nei suoi colpi di scena, che non risultano molto efficaci. Spero che i prossimi siano migliori.
I was left with some confusion about exactly how many people were involved in the Council of Science.I especially liked seeing Bigman's loyalty to Lucky, although I felt that he seemed to only have a couple of characteristics that were exaggerated, rather than having the opportunity to get to know him a bit more in depth.I liked the fact that I saw a bit more emotion from Lucky in this book, though I did feel that he was a bit too good to be true at times.
I felt that Bigman saw more action than Lucky did...
The book is very much a 'boys adventure' story of the Science Council and Pirates (view spoiler)[being manipulated by beings from Sirius (hide spoiler)] - as such it is quite entertaining.
Some nice ideas, and some have even held up to 60 years of space travel and scientific advancement.
It does not have the impact of Asimov's Foundation and Robot series, however the fact that it seems quite mundane could very well be because the speculation since has been the bread and butter of sci-fi.
One year after David Starr's adventure on Mars—where he encountered a benevolent race of energy beings living in isolation below the planet's surface while investigating a food poisoning scare—Starr sets off to eliminate a growing pirate threat originating from our solar system's asteroid belt.David "Lucky" Starr, a junior member of the Council of Science, proposes that an expendable, unmanned vessel, the Atlas, be sent to the asteroid belt with the intention of allowing the pirates to capture it and tow it back to their base—where explosives rigged in certain sections of the ship would detonate.Starr's mentors, Doctors Conway and Henree, endorse the plan but are shocked when they learn from Starr's sidekick, the diminutive but capable Bigman, that Starr had decided to board the Atlas in order to infiltrate the pirates.As planned, the ship is captured by a pirate vessel, commanded by one Captain Anton, who suspects that Starr, traveling under the alias Bill Williams, is a government man.
So I stated this book while still reading Dark Money as I was sick and did not want to parse politics while sick.
Another Asimov juvenile book, the second in the Space Ranger series and like most series books the 2nd is more of a disappointment.
The story was very linear one thing after the next.
The "glimmer shield" was used only once to overcome a physical challenge which Lucky chose to put himself in on his own to gain an advantage.
Back to Dark Money and then the next book in Asimov's publication list Caves of Steel.
David Starr, the Space Ranger heads to the asteroid belt to stop war with, not only pirates, but another alien race.
This, again in the great Asimov fashion, gives us a short tale that is still so readable 60 years later.
You just can't fault the Asimov narrative; it is just so readable.
This book really reminds me of the early Dr Who 'Target' books.
I could just see the Dr and lucky teaming up for an adventure - Lucky does remind me a bit of Captain Jack.
If you like this Genre, the Lucky Starr novels are great.
The second of the 'daring-do' space adventure series Asimov published under the pseudonym Paul French. Lucky seeks revenge for a family tragedy by disguising his identity in order to join the bad guys of the title. The discovery of the hermit-like character Joseph Patrick Hansen, a capture brought about by a pirate who had been defeated in a duel, a fast race involving a swing around the Sun and a revelation of a true identity round out this totally unremembered tale.
I love Asimov’s writing, Foundation and Robots being my favourite series. Lucky Starr is more action driven, in my opinion, than then other two. I enjoyed the plot, but was not surprised with the ending. Not my favourite book form him, although I did finished it quite fast. I hope I come to appreciate the series as I have done the above mentioned.
This was a fun little book. I would say it's one of those sci fi novels where Man Who Does Everything Right defeats Bumbling Villains to the general astonishment of Hidebound and Pretty Stupid But Well-meaning Sidekick Characters. But it was still a fun little read.
Classic old school 70’s SciFi. Fascinating reading this so long after it was written. Asimov was a master
OMG, I didn't think it was possible, but this book is even worse than the first one in the series. Stay away at all costs...
A clear improvement from the first book. The action sequences bored me, but action sequences in books almost always do. All in all, a good book that I'm glad that I read.
These Lucky Starr books by Asimov are fun reads.
Me encanta cómo Lucky se desempeña en todos lados y su relación con Bigman.
A better one of the YA David "Lucky" Starr novels.
A good short story from Lucky Starr. Dont like the way the narrative talks down to the reader though.
Nel frattempo, è costretto a sfidare a singolar tenzone un pirata grosso e cattivo come da manuale per poi incontrare un enigmatico eremita dello spazio: insomma, una serie di situazioni tipiche del genere e che hanno più di un richiamo alle peripezie marinaresche.
Il gioco a rimpiattino con le navi nemiche non riesce davvero ad appassionare anche perché, insolito per un’opera del Dottore, si segue con una certa fatica: i capitoli conclusivi riportano la narrazione a una dimensione più consona, ma la soddisfazione complessiva resta lontana dal grado raggiunto nella puntata precedente.
Stretching a bit (but not too much to break it!) the Science to fit the Fiction of a solar system peopled by human colons and extraterrestrial intelligent life forms, Asimov cooks up a fun, fresh and adventurous space opera saga, peppering it with quite a few Western genre tropes and leaving the tone evolve to a Cold War investigations series (moving with the author’s times, so to say).
series: an added value for any Asimov enthusiast!This adventure takes the tones of a Cold War spy story, as David and Bigman must counter a Sirian (human independent colony on the planets around the star Sirius) plot against the Terran government.
In the second book of the Lucky Starr series, our hero must contend with pirates who plague the spaceways.
Lucky attempts to infiltrate the pirate organization but is discovered for who and what he is: a member of the Council of Science and thus an enforcer of the law.
A series of harrowing adventures and narrow escapes ensues until Lucky finally brings the organization to justice.Originally written in the 1950's, this is a fast-paced adventure tale designed to be enjoyed by young people.
As with the previous book, Starr must use his quick wits, his hardened muscles, his indomitable courage and above all, his knowledge of science to win the day.
I first read the Lucky Starr novels back in the late 1980's and early 1990's.
Lucky Starr and the Pirates of the Asteroids is a great read for people of all ages, as the violence is minimal and there is not bad language or sex (probably because the book was written so long ago).
I highly recommend the Lucky Starr Adventures Series and suggest that you try and find this book.
I look forward to finding out what happens next in Lucky Starr and the Oceans of Venus.I rated this book an 8 out of 10.
I was surprised by how well I remembered this book, despite not having read it for years.
I was less surprised to remember key scenes, like the push-gun duel and the explanation of polar coordinates (my first introduction to the idea).The technology described all feels weirdly analogue.
As well as the book-films I mentioned in my previous review, their sub-ether encryption works using matched pairs of crystals, and the receiver must manually adjust a dial so the crystals align.
oh" problem in a work of science fiction, even allowing for David Starr's weird fetish for keeping all his ideas to himself.
Even at the time I read them in my early 20s, I was not greatly inspired by these, but then again, Issac Asimov wrote them in the 1950s as juvenile science fiction novels under the pseudonym Paul French.
As Asimov admits in the 1970s authors note, the knowledge about the planets and moons has changed greatly, and obviously much much now in 2016.
So, there is that problem about reading sci-fi when you already know the science knowledge is significantly out of date.
Still, that doesn't stop me watching schlock sci-fi movies.
I loved reading Lucky Starr and the Pirates of the Asteroids, the second book in the Lucky Starr series.
I have read many of his books over the years, and Lucky Starr and the Pirates of the Asteroids just gets added to the long list of great books written by him.
As you can tell by the title, this book takes place in the asteroid field within our own solar system.
Lucky Starr's adventures takes him all over the solar system in the hopes of eliminating the pirates of the asteroids.
I'll definitely read the next book in the series.
