https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557212.Five_Have_a_Wonderful_Time
I guess the author and the publisher figured that, by the time you get to the eleventh book in a bestselling series, people are going to buy it no matter what you call it.
I suppose the modern equivalent would be J.K. Rowling releasing Harry Potter Teaches Ron To Floss.It's a shame, really, as this is one of the more exciting instalments in the series, with one of the Five even getting attacked with a whip at one point!
There's everything you'd expect from a Famous Five book: espionage, kidnapping, vicious baddies and heroic kids.
Jo ist wiedermal mit von der Partie und das führt zu einem lustigen und ereignisreichen Abenteuer! (Spionage, Entführung... aber mal ohne Höhlen! :D) Jo und die Schlange sind aber wohl schon das Highlight. [31.08.2018]
Belum lagi mereka bertemu dengan kenalan lama, Jo. Seperti biasa dimana ada Lima Sekawan disitu ada petualangan.
Petualangan dimulai saat mereka secara tidak sengaja melihat seraut wajah di jendela puri kuno yang seharusnya tidak lagi bisa dimasuki!Saya kembali membaca Lima Sekawan setelah berhenti cukup lama.
Saya melahap buku ini dengan cukup cepat karena alurnya yang menarik dan cepat.
Saya sudah suka dengan Jo dari buku sebelumnya maka dari itu saya cukup excited bertemu lagi dengannya.Saya sangat suka suasana yang digambarkan Bu Enid di buku ini.
Seperti biasa di buku ini juga ada lorong rahasia, ruang rahasia, dll.
More gipsies, kidnapped mad scientists, ruined castles, secret passages. But what was the favourite chocolate bar, the wrapper of which the Five recognised so well? I wanted to be told so that I could eat it and be like them too. Enid Blyton missed some lucrative product placement tie-ins there. "Five have a wonderful time is brought to you by Cadbury's". Oh, I hope it wasn't Galaxy, chocolate for wimps.
I haven't reread this volume in the series I think. I did not remember much about this mystery. Usually when I start a Famous Five book, I already am aware of how it would end. So looks like I read this book again after 20+ years this time probably. Love it as always.
This one is a lot of fun. The kids make do with only a small amount of vittles, for them at least. Was that a hedgehog in the stew - no problemo. All the fun of the fair and more.
It’s a very nice mystery book.The book is based upon a conspiracy against terry Kane, the scientist, conspired by his rival James Pottersham. In the beginning the fair folks were not good to the five, but when jo, Alfredo’s niece, came and introduced them to the folk people, they quite regretted their bad behavior towards them and since then the five’s days becam more enjoyable.The end is the most humorous part of the whole book.
One of the best books in the world
Because it isn't set in Kirrin, and they get to go and stay in caravans within sight of a castle.
That sounded like a load of fun, I can tell you, to a young girl who loved caravans and castles both!I also liked that Jo made another appearance in this novel, she always makes me smile.
I just wish I'd been allowed to do what these kids did, and have half the sense while doing it.Once more the Five solve a kidnapping, and once more Uncle Quentin is involved because it is regarding a scientist he worked with.
A great book for kids and adults alike!
Complete Paisa WasoolThe famous five I wish I could have read in my school days.
This book is quite simple, adventurous, funny and true to the core even after being a fiction.
People told me that it was kids book- I pretty liked it even now and would not mind reading the complete series of the same.
They prepare you to have some adventure in whatever way possible.
It also fulfilled my fascination of living somewhere away from home- in fields, with people from Circus who could fire eat, Have pythons as pet, and a rubber man, sitting around camp fires and, above all, wandering in Old ruined castle looking for the stories of them and Hidden passages.
These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
I'm not sure why this book is called what it is. I thought all the children were going to have an excellent time, and in some ways I guess they did. It was good to see Jo in this book, and while she's got her same spunk, she and George got along a bit better in this book. I didn't really see the twist at the end of this book, but it was sort of surprising for a Famous Five book. :)
This one should be called 'Five Leave It All Up To Jo'. I really enjoyed it but the famous five were kind of background to Jo's heroics.
Jess, my 7-year old little girl, gives it 4 stars.
ভাললাগছে
ভাল্লাগছে
Saya senang membayangkan nginap di karavan. So oldies dan jadul banget kisah ini, jadi nostalgia. Zaman segitu karavan masih ada, ditarik kuda dan ada kaum pengelana.
Five Have a Wonderful time with adventures and I am having wonderful time reading famous five.
It is a mystery-adventure novel for children above age 7.The main characters are the four cousins - George, Anne, Julian, Dick, and Georges’ dog, Timmy.
Could it be one of those two missing scientists that have been written about in the newspaper?My favourite character is Timmy, as he is loyal and is almost always there for the others when they need him.
The novel doesn’t have much related to the ones before, so you won’t get entirely confused.In short, I really liked/enjoyed this novel and I think almost everyone will, too.
Five Have a Wonderful Time (1952)Brief Summary by Poppy Hutchinson (from http://www.enidblytonsociety.co.uk/): Whilst caravanning in the hills beside Faynights Castle, the Famous Five are eventually invited into the company of some extraordinary fair folk who are camping in the same same field, and meanwhile learn of the disappearances of two well-known Scientists who have presumably fled the country to sell some priceless Scientific secrets.
OK, this setup does not feel very original after Five Go off in a Caravan, and the adventure itself, with the castle, the secret passages and the kidnapped scientists is not the most original either.On the other hand, the fair folk are colorful and delightful, easily the highlight of the book...
"George's has caught a cold due to swimming the sea in April, and as such, is unable to join Julian, Dick, and Anne on their planned caravan trip.
George is on the mend from her cold, so she writes a postcard to let Julian, Dick, and Anne know that they should meet her at the train station the next day.
That day, the children learn that two scientists have gone missing.
For some reason in my childhood, there were lots of British books and comics widely available and back then they were sold for the mighty sum of 10 cents.
Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book!
Here we have the "fair-people" (circus people / gypsies), kidnapped mad scientists, ruined castles, secret passages ... the typical scenes of the famous five. Jo is back as well. But this has to be one of the good ones in the series...the story is great. I love how the friends slowly but steadily uncover details and also how the attitude of people changed towards them, teaching the children patience and adaptability. I think this one is truly a wonderful read.
Yeay, liburan cukup baca petualangan Lima Sekawan di Puri Faynights.Meski baca ulang, saya masih berasa tegang di beberapa bagian. Sempat salah ingat dengan Sirkus Misterius dimana para aktor aktris sirkus menjadi dalang kejahatan. Jadi cukup lega ketika ternyata bukan di cerita ini mereka jahat 😁. Terlebih ketika Lima Sekawan sudah mulai asyik dengan mereka. Dan bonusnya adalah munculnya Jo ☺. Sejak kemunculannya di Jo Anak Gelandangan, dia sudah menjadi favorit saya, selain George 😃😃😃
Yeay, liburan cukup baca petualangan Lima Sekawan di Puri Faynights.Meski baca ulang, saya masih berasa tegang di beberapa bagian. Sempat salah ingat dengan Sirkus Misterius dimana para aktor aktris sirkus menjadi dalang kejahatan. Jadi cukup lega ketika ternyata bukan di cerita ini mereka jahat 😁. Terlebih ketika Lima Sekawan sudah mulai asyik dengan mereka. Dan bonusnya adalah munculnya Jo ☺️. Sejak kemunculannya di Jo Anak Gelandangan, dia sudah menjadi favorit saya, selain George 😃😃😃
This one always seemed to be over too quickly....the Five go caravanning, find a mystery to solve (complete with Fair Folk and Jo - remember her?) , so exploring at night, solve the mystery....and then it's all over. A whole new cast of one book characters including a python called Beauty and obligatory fair-people who see the Five as "us and them folks", however, of course, it all comes right in the end!
What are now memorable characters. I am glad I get to enjoy them too. Once Aurora grows up, she can read them too. An enjoyable read with interesting characters. I love circus themes, so that part was the best.Thank you, Uncle Bruce, for the gifts of these books.
Another great adventure or two really! First the problem with the fair-folk and then meeting up with Jo to straighten it out. Next, on to the castle and all it's rooms and passages. Uncle Quentin shows up and gets caught in the jumble!! Lots of fun!
Has so many conflicts, plot twists. Love this
Her zaman ki gibi macera ve heyecan dolu bir kitaptı.
biasa saja..Lima Sekawan dan Sarjana Misterius... ketika saya membaca judulnya, terbenak dalam pikiran saya..., kok pake kata sarjana ya? Emang transletan dari bahasa Inggrisnya apa ya kira2? Setelah saya baca2 di buku ini, saya baru menyadari kalo seharusnya judulnya Lima Sekawan dan Ilmuwan Misterius... untuk seri kali ini, lima sekawan menyewa karavan di suatu tmpt dan disana mrk tak sengaja bertemu dgn Jo si gadis gelandangan dmn mrk prnh bertemu sblmny... Bersamanya, mrk mengalami petualangan yg ujung-ujungny mempertemukan mrk dgn 2 ilmuwan misterius yg telah hilang selama ini.....
Interesting book
