https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/586475.Selected_Poems
The second is a personal favourite.Patterns - Poem by Amy LowellI walk down the garden-paths, And all the daffodils Are blowing, and the bright blue squills.
I walk down the patterned garden-paths In my stiff, brocaded gown.
No, no answer." And I walked into the garden, Up and down the patterned paths, In my stiff, correct brocade.
I stood upright too, Held rigid to the pattern By the stiffness of my gown.
In Summer and in Winter I shall walk Up and down The patterned garden-paths In my stiff, brocaded gown.
"New York at Night" is possibly my favourite from her collection of wonderful poems.She beautifully integrates personification in her writing, bringing New York to life yet not with excitement and energy like one would expect instead she delicately makes us feel pity for the bustling city and it's never ending anguish filled days.
She pieced together that that clock - which people would obliviously pass underneath was a symbol of the city's crude religion- greed.
Through her eyes the night with its radiant stars would always readily offer her a dark cape that would cocoon her from seeing the scars they bore from living in the bustling city.
CRUZAMENTOÓ Tu,Que vieste ter comigo um diadeitada debaixo de macieiras, logo após o banho,porque não estrangulaste antes de falarem vez de encher-me do puro mel selvagem das tuas palavras,para depois me deixar à mercêdas abelhas da floresta?O TÁXIQuando me afasto de tio mundo bate sem forçacomo um tambor que enfraquece.Eu chamo-te entre as estrelas lá no altoe grito pelas cristas do vento.As ruas, rapidamente,uma a seguir à outra,levam-me para longe de ti,e os candeeiros da cidade furam-me os olhospara que não mais contemple a tua face.Porque deverei eu abandonar-te,para acabar magoada nas afiadas esquinas da noite?
DIscovering her was lifechanging. SHe knows how to craft a poem. Quite incredible. While she's not the most clever and not the most revolutionary, she knows how to use rhyme and rhythm well, and how to make you feel things. Serious things. She was a total badass. Love the intro and front notes on this one as well. Very informative and well written and passionate.
Some of my favorite traditional poems of Lowell’s were “On Capraccio’s Picture: The Dream Of St. Ursula” which reminds me of Wallace Stevens’ “Not the Idea of the Thing, but the Thing Itself,” her fifteen-line poem “In Answer To A Request” (to write a sonnet), “To A Lady Of Undeniable Beauty And Practised Charm” (because of its cleverness, including a rhyme scheme of aaaaaaaabcdbcd), and the longer poem “On Looking At A Copy Of Alice Meynell’s Poems, Given Me, Years Ago, By A Friend.”“On Looking” is a lament of unreturned love, remembered with the finding of a book of poems given to the narrator in lieu of what she really wanted, but accepted as a way of being in the presence of the object of her love.
I liked that it was organized by style because I'm drawn to certain styles that I read closely and was able to skim other sections.
After Ezra Pound's famous dismissal of Lowell's poetry as "Amygism" in jealous response to her influential contribution to Imagism, the publishing industry and Western canon unfortunately followed suit, making her poetry largely unavailable for nearly a century.
This collection revives interest in a poet who, though she may now seem overly formal, was wildly popular in her own time.
The patterns that emerge throughout this collection make clear Lowell's questions regarding the constructedness of gender roles and the connection between lesbian passion and individual agency.
An important read for students of the American Twentieth Century.
i was going through a phase
Is there a more perfect poem than "Patterns?"
Lowett has a very unique way to write narrative with poetry. This hybrid style of writing is very enjoyable.
