https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49838.Titan
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award.
When you flip open my version, the inside of the cover has a brilliant colour picture of a naked woman riding a centaur through a lush alien landscape with a whale-like blimp-creature floating in the sky.Before you’ve read a single page it lets you know (ho-ho-ho) we’re in for THAT kind of ride.
won the Locus Sci-Fi award in 1980 (ahead of Pohl’s 
Here are the really cool bits: Varley literally builds a world with a vast intelligence playing god within it.
I really got all giddy over the way Varley incorporated everything and the twist at the end were just so delicious that it turned this damn solid worldbuilding hard-SF novel into a popcorn read.And the very same twist and incorporation of nerdiness kinda threw me for a loop.I almost wanted more mystery and a much more complicated reveal rather than a gimmie *oh that's cool* crowdpleaser.
It has more reveals than Rama, more intelligent life than Eon, and enough nerdy entertainment to fill three books of lesser quality.
While it's true that I have plenty of never-before-read fiction on the To Read shelf, I've been hankering recently to reread this series, one of my favorites.Not only does it have one of my favorite characters - Cirocco Jones, subsequently the Wizard of Gaea - but also one of my favorite alien races - the Titanides:(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)](Which image I've hidden in a spoiler because some readers might find Titanide dressing conventions pornographic.)See my review of the entire trilogy (posted 3/13/12): http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Generally considered SF, this book has a lot of fantasy in it. It's full of interesting ideas and well written. Definitely worth the read.
1.5 stars. An okay story but after reading Varley's Ophiuchi Hotline, this was a big let down. Definitely a product of the 70's and I found the "free love" aspect of the novel a bit tedious. I will say that the concept of Gaia was very interesting and some of the alien characters original. The problem for me was that I found all of the human characters boring. Nominee: Hugo Award Best Science Fiction Novel (1980)Nominee: Nebula Award Best Science Fiction Novel (1980)Winner: Locus Award Best Science Fiction Novel (1980)
Well, better late than never...
hope it lives up to its reputation....-----------The interior illustrations are pretty cool, too.
And it's not all that crazy; it's actually pretty accurate.
Varley explores a lot of ideas here, about feminism, and free love, and quests, and aliens, and gods....
Sure, Varley needed to know all that stuff, but imo he didn't need to leave all that development in the book.
The sex is excessive, but, then, this was published in the late 70s, so, yeah.
All in all it's much like much other SF from its era.
Not my favorite era, pretty weak book.
This was the first time in a LONG while I've though "why the hell am I reading this" as I plowed through a book.For the most part I love all kinds of entertainment (from RPGs to movies) with the detailed underpinnings of top notch world building.
I've seen Varley's Gaea books referenced number of times with respect to great works of "world building"- like Dune, Middle Earth, etc., hence my interest.
silly.Could go on and on about the thin characters and weird alien abortion scenes, but I think I've said my peace on the matter.
This epic trilogy was the first thing I thought of when I saw the previews to the movie Avatar and I was so bummed when I realized that I was not looking at the broad face of a Titanide, but another creature from another story.
If this trilogy is ever put on the big screen, I hope they stay true to the tone of the books, dont remove or dumb down aspects that fly in the face of puritanical thinking, and bring fully to life a 50 foot Monroe world-god punt kicking an elephant in a fit of temper.
1.5 stars. An okay story but after reading Varley's Ophiuchi Hotline, this was a big let down. Definitely a product of the 70's and I found the "free love" aspect of the novel a bit tedious. I will say that the concept of Gaia was very interesting and some of the alien characters original. The problem for me was that I found all of the human characters boring. Nominee: Hugo Award Best Science Fiction Novel (1980) Nominee: Nebula Award Best Science Fiction Novel (1980) Winner: Locus Award Best Science Fiction Novel (1980) (less)
Each story was challenging, innovative and showed new ways of thinking about old problems.Although Titan isn’t so much a cutting-edge work as some of his more whimsical short stories, it definitely has moments when you have to slam the book closed, stand up, and walk around in a circle laughing.
It tells the story of the Deep Space Vehicle Ringmaster and her crew while on a mission to Saturn.The captain is a woman named Cirocco “Rocky” Jones (an homage to the old serial “Rocky Jones”) who was born in a wandering family that travelled the globe at the beck and call of the corporations who actually run Earth.
Commanding the ship is Cirocco Jones, a tall NASA career woman, aided by astronomer Gaby Plauget, the clone twin physicists April and August Polo, pilot Eugene Springfield, physician Calvin Greene and engineer Bill (whose last name is never given).As they reach the satellite they realize it is a huge hollow torus habitat.
They are scattered through the work like so many Easter eggs.Exploration of a new “world” seems to equal self-exploration for Jones, who discovers that maybe she’s not all that into being the Captain, trying to maintain control/discipline, and generally being responsible for everyone.
However this book seems more an attempt by the author to explore his own sexual fantasies than an attempt to tell a SciFi story.
Yet that isn't the most ridiculous part of this story.
No the most ridiculous part is: NO ONE IS EXCITED THAT THEY ENCOUNTERED ALIENS.
I'll say that Rocky was a cool character, but this book overall was a disappointment.
But for real when was the last time you heard of a story about First Contact where no one was excited about the aliens?
Ok you don't believe me that this is a pervy weird disappointment of a story.
This is book 1 of one of my very favorite sci-fi trilogies. Once I discovered them, in about 1980, I devoured them as quickly as possible, losing sleep so that I could keep reading. I went on to read everything else written by John Varley, and have never been disappointed. If you want a quick idea of what his writing is like without committing to a trilogy, try "The Barbie Murders" or "The Persistence of Vision" -- these are short stories.
This book didn't grab me: I was about 100 pages from the end and realized that I honestly didn't care what happened. Part of the problem was that I had already pigeonholed it as sort of a Rendezvous with Rama or Ringworld (exploration of a Big Dumb Object by an underprepared away team) by way of Philip José Farmer. Once it was categorized, all the magic was gone.I didn't particularly hate it, but felt that finishing it was pointless. I was not enthralled by the characters, the exploration of the alien biology, or the mystery of Gaea itself.
This book is GOOD! I love it. I need to read it again! And so I did. It's still good. This book is full of strong, interesting female characters. Sex. Fascinating aliens. The Titanides are awesome. I don't think I'd mind being one. They sing a lot and have several genitals which is pretty cool. Their names are chords. There's blimps and angels. Nothing is as you totally expect it to be. It takes a while for it to go from space ship lingo to, whoa. WTF? How interesting!This guy goes well with Octavia Butler and Wraethlu. It's super imaginative.
Podsjetiše me frendice da i ovo zapišem kao pročitano i posjedovano.Kupljeno čim je izašlo no jako se slabo sjećam radnje jedino se sjećam kako je bilo neobično, ponekad zanimljivo, ponekad udav (cijela trilogija)
This was a bit of a disappointment after Varley's Ophiuchi Hotline. However, if you like a quest theme like that of Farmer's Riverworld series, then you may like this novel and the two which follow. I enjoyed the originality of this, the first, but found the latter two increasingly tedious.
The beginning of the book is a bit hard to get interested, however, I finally stuck to my guns and kept on reading past the first chapter.
It was in these parts of the story, where I finally got sucked in and began to be interested in finishing the book.
It was only after they got pulled in and crashed by the planet, Gaea, that all the interesting enigmas started appearing, such as the world inside the black shell of Gaea, the centaurs and angels, and all the fairly fantastical elements of the story which I find easier to digest.
Even Gaea, the planet mind, is very human in her personality.
In general I prefer women authors, in any category (as will no doubt become plain over the course of this year's exercise in tracking my reading [and re-reading]), but Varley is one of the exceptions to that rule.
It's a bit of a surprise, because he clearly likes Heinlein (that is, it's clear in many of his other books, especially later additions to his 8 Worlds stories), and I remember all too clearly how DISGUSTING Heinlein was about gender, ugh.
Or a lot of a libertarian.In Titan, followed by Wizard and Demon, Varley has created a sentient space-traveling semi-planet (though torus-shaped, and engineered, rather that evolved) one of which exists among Saturn's moons.
probably feeling he was heading to fantasy and in my puritan years i was sf or nothing...yeah, it is a big dumb object but as fun as it was to explore, in my youth admiring o'neill/lagrange space habitats, it was just not as radically fantastic as niven's ringworld or purely estranged as clarke's rama, even if the writing and story is better than either, but it is inspiring.
i like the way the fantastic is sfnal and not fantasy, that metaphysics is consistent and natural and nothing magical...so, fun, but i have to read the next two books to be sure it is worth a four...
This is exactly the sort of book that turns new readers of science fiction away from the genre.Is it a bad book?
Combining that description with sex might work for some, but I suspect that readers that don't already have a decent grounding in science fiction will turn away.I found the characters very difficult to relate to.
The amount of thought into how the whole system worked together was really well thought out and explained.Overall - if you like "hard SF" then this is your kind of book.
If you're new to the genre, I might recommend something lighter to start with and get around to this one later in your reading list.
I like this less than I thought I would, but, at the end, I liked it a bit better than I had while reading.
There's a style of ScFi book that's a bit like a travelogue through an invented world.
The Integral Trees, which I didn't finish felt like this, Ringworld, and I think I'd put Riverworld in this category too.
I loved the novelty of them when I read them in my teens and twenties, now I feel a lack of character development.
You don't need an invented world, you don't need a villain, characters can be enough.
It's been quite a while since I was blown away by this series which has me wondering how it has weathered. Giving it a 4 for how I remember feeling after reading
Cirocco learns that she’s able to communicate with a centaur-like race called Titanides who speak a music based language.
They only know that when they’re close to one another they’re compelled to fight.Cirocco learns about a controlling deity called Gaea from the Titanides.
Given the period it was written, when I compare it to some other science fiction books written around the same time and how they handled similar subjects, Varley’s stands out as being a bit more progressive and imaginative than most.
I’d complained about another popular science fiction writer from that same period not knowing what to do with the women in his books and the distasteful direction he took with sexuality.
This 2001: A Space Odyssey intro changes rapidly to a more fantasy oriented narrative: The spaceship gets destroyed and the team members pass through some psychedelic scenes and find themselves within the BDO.
Which means that the Dune movie was SF at that time, right?The world-building is entertaining but not as good as in the similar but much earlier Rendezvous with Rama.
I only found some of the technical world descriptions confusing and had to google some pictures of the BDO.In summary, I enjoyed and liked this novel and I'll read at least the second part of the trilogy later on.
Огромният мастилено-черен тороид, останал години наред незабелязан за Земята, внезапно напада кораба „Рингмастър”, а екипажът му е погълнат от чудовищно огромното същество-спътник.След прекараните в полусън месеци капитан Чироко Джоунс се събужда във вътрешността на тороида – сама, изцяло обезкосмена и докарана до нервен срив от времето, което е трябвало да преживее, без да използва сетивата си.
Не напразно сравнявам трите произведения – те са удивително еднакви в много елементи – светът с несферична форма, неравностойната борба на хората срещу огромно и могъщо същество и личната драма на героите, поставени във враждебна среда.
Read this trilogy series back shortly after it came out and loved it - I'm thinking about re-reading it now!
Varley transports you to a fantastical world that is actually a living sentinent being - Gaea.
This being has created a world inside itself populated by creatures created from myths, stories, and movies gleaned from Earth's airwaves that it rules over as a god (goddess).
All is not well however in this world - there is rebellion and problems caused by "demi-gods".
The female captain of the ship is required by Gaea to complete a quest before she will gain back her surviving crew.
This is the first book in what is now known as "The Gaea Trilogy." For those of you who hesitate to get into multi-volume series, take heart, for "Titan" is completely self-contained. Like "The Hobbit," while it contains the seeds of what turns out to be a great rollercoaster of an adventure, it's a tremendously satisfying read on its own. Varley has done a hell of a job with this, mixing whimsically fantastic elements with straight-forward science fiction, a few shocks (both psychological and physical) and just enough sex to spice things up.
That's my second favorite book.
Well it's more like on first place together with Battlefield Earth.
When I read the first part I was so angry that it finished.
I never read the back cover - I didn't know that it's a trilogy!
Then I saw Wizard and I bought it and I don't know why I did.
I just saw the front cover and I said I want this book.
with the first few lines I understood that it's the second book about "Gaia", but I couldn't believe it.
Without these two (this and Battlefield Earth) I would stop reading books at age of 10.
Yeah.
I loved it.
It's a fun and easy read.
I cannot honestly give it 4 stars but 3.5 sounds just right.
Oh, and damn it, I am so pissed off now that I cannot find my copy of Wizard that I've been hanging on to for years just so I could read the trilogy all in a row.
Crap!
...I read Titan when I was in high school, and have intended to reread it and its sister volumes for some time.
It's a fun tale.
I'm confident I'll be increasing my rating of the novel after my current reading.
