https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5137.The_Flame_Trees_of_Thika
"The Flame Trees of Thika: Memories of an African Childhood" by Elspeth Huxley, is an absolutely lovely recollection of childhood as it should be for every child.
The daughter of two financially strapped, adventurous, and eternally optimistic parents, Elspeth recounts life in Thika in the bush of Kenya, where she spent her youth amongst the Kikuyu and Masai.
She lived with nature, with superstitions, with death and love, and certainly writes about it all with great equanimity.
The writing is excellent, the story actually quite amazing, and the people are fascinating, one and all.
We rode our bikes down there, we chased butterflies, we caught bugs for science projects; I won't speak for my brothers or the friends I played with, but I also spent time down there letting my imagination go absolutely effing wild.Reading Elspeth Huxley's memoirs of growing up in Kenya reminded me of the land at the bottom of Main Street.
Elspeth's family left Kenya during the war, and I'm curious to see what her life was like after the war when she returned to Africa.For myself, I have no desire to return to the bottom of Main Street to see what that field is like now.
In 1913, when the author was six years old, she and her mother and father went to British East Africa (B.E.A.) to start a coffee plantation.
Her father bought some property, sight unseen, in the middle of nowhere among the Kikuyu people.
The story is very simply told from her very early memories, although I suspect she must have consulted some diaries or letters her parents kept.
The book only covers about a two year period, because World War I intervened and people went back to Europe to wait it out.
I did not want this story to end.
Read this several times over the years and also watched the BBC series which I just love.
Never got around to reviewing the book, but recently my sister handed me her copy of the sequel, The Mottled Lizard, so I figured it was about time.
Elspeth Huxley just knows how to write.
True it is the grown Elspeth who is relating the story, but she is convincingly young and yet at the same time infinitely older than the adults around her.A great adventure story, all the more so for being based on the author’s life.
It is one of those books you HATE to see it end.
Actually, it completely bored me.There was also something mildly unsettling about the narrator's "voice:" she's writing the memoir as an adult, about 50 years after the events she's narrating, which took place when she was a young girl, from ages six to eight.
In other words, there is no way at age six or eight she would have grasped the subtle sexual tensions between Lettice Palmer and Ian Crawfurd, or comprehended the coded language used by the memoir's characters to discuss the romantic possibilities between these two.
So much of the book, though it deals with people trying to start a new frontier life in Africa, is really about the ending of things, specifically the end of old Europe with the onset of World War 1.Elspeth, in the last chapter, writes about how she realized, quite suddenly and with some fright, how strangely interconnected all things are in life.
In some ways the book is as much about what happened to the whole world at the beginning of the 20th century as it is about one young girls' experience growing up in Africa with her pioneering and liberal thinking parents.
How could a child as young as Elspeth supposedly is during the action, hear those detailed adult conversations and remember them, let alone comprehending what was going on?
It's excellently well written, and one could argue that the author talked to people as an adult and reconstructed the scrappy memories of childhood from rumor and gossip and fact remembered by others.
At the time it made sense, as for many people the adolescent memories are the most lasting, coming as they do at an age when the youth feels their powers coming to them; everything is immediate and makes a lasting impression.
[image error]video blurb - When a young Edwardian family leaves the shores of England to build a home in the wilderness of East Africa, what they encounter is beyond their imagination, but forever remembered by their 11-year-old daughter.Based on the beloved memoir by Elspeth Huxley, THE FLAME TREES OF THIKA brings to life the color and adventure of another place and time.
From the creator of Upstairs, Downstairs, THE FLAME TREES OF THIKA is an enchanting, critically acclaimed mini-series featuring seven episodes shot on location and filled with details both lavish and authentic.Great beck-life adventure slowly told.
A memoir of the author's childhood in Thika, a farm area outside Nairobi in colonial Kenya, just prior to World War I in 1913 when the author was six years old.
Sometimes the two worlds intersected, but rarely did they blend.Huxley looks back on her family's adventure among the wildlife and wild people of Africa and describes it with insight and humor.
She includes tales of hunts, of Kikiyu and Masai tribes, and of her love for the people and animals of Africa.
What I like most about this book is that it captures the wonder and curiosity of a young child quite convincingly.
This is a book filled with wonder.
It's a very sensory book -- one can almost see, hear, smell, and taste Africa.
Huxley does a good job of making it clear the origins of these misunderstandings, and she does it evenhandedly, with affection for all the cultures, including a clear-eyed appraisal of how odd British concepts of land ownership must have seemed to, say, the Masai.
This book reminded me a little bit of Little House on the Prairie with some adult bits thrown in.
The main character is a young girl who comes to Kenya with her parents so that they can do the pioneering thing: working with the Kikuyu and Masai, planting coffee, grafting fruit trees, swapping spouses.
Meanwhile the little girl waxes poetic about killer ants that can only be avoided with ashes, her pony, buffaloes, war dances, murder, and snippets of the adult world.
Her view of Africa is somewhat fractured due to her age, but that only makes it more beautiful.
That's why I bought it, but it's not a horse book in the slightest.This autobiography tells the story of 6 year old Elspeth and her early years in Africa before World War 1.
The story is very slow, and it took me a long time to get into it, but once I did I loved it.
I umm'd and aah'd about whether to give this a 4 or a 5, but settled on a 4 because of how long it took me to get into the slow pacing.
I enjoyed this memoir very much. I did think it odd that Huxley referred to her parents by their first names. I also have reservations that at 6 or 7 she remembered things that clearly but I suppose every good book depends on good research.
It is a true story, and actually really interesting how this little girl lived in Africa for so long.
I actually learned a lot in this book, because I didn't really know much about how the Europeans settled in Africa.
The characters were really cool to get to know, and the perspective and insight of this girl was really interesting.Now, this book was one of those "oldy" books where there's a LOT of detailed descriptions.
Is he that one guy who lives in a hole, or that guy who sells cats.{Ponders for a few seconds} Yeah I have no idea." The story was really interesting overall, and I would recommend it for people who like detailed novels with lots of imagery in them.
The settlers would change the landscape forever, but luckily, there was an inquisitive little five year old who saw Thika for the magical world it was and forever preserved it in these pages.A few years back I was driving back with a friend through southern Missouri from another friends wedding in Arkansas when I spied a billboard for the Laura Ingalls Wilder museum in Mansfield.
Right about now you might be wondering why I'm going on about Laura Ingalls Wilder in a book review for Elspeth Huxley, but the truth is that Huxley's book, The Flame Trees of Thika, is Little House without the softened edges.
I'm so glad that I picked up an illustrated edition of this book, as it helped with my wild imagination while reading of Elspeth's adventures.
KUDOS to the illustrator Francesca Pelizzoli.
Elspeth Huxley and her family travel to Thika, East Africa in 1907 to cultivate coffee crops.
They had no idea what was in store for them.
To read about the tribes of Africa and their customs and all the crazy adventures, not to mention the hardships was just so intriguing.
A really good read that had me going to my dictionary more than once (I like new words!) I'm definitely passing this book on....
This is was a 3.5 for me. There were some parts I lived but other parts I didn’t enjoy so much.There were some interesting moments in this book being told from the point of view of a child. It also shows the cultures in Africa and how they interacted with European settlers.
I LOVE this book. Have been trying to get everyone I know to read it. Don't know how I missed it all these years as it came out in 1959! Beautiful.
I really enjoyed this book and though it was slightly slow at the beginning it hooked me emotionally in the end. The plot took a long time to unfold and was slightly uninteresting at the but then became very interesting towards the end.
In this case, the story is a slightly fictionalized version of Huxley's family in the late 1910s, after they impetuously buy a plot of bush at Thika outside of Nairobi on which to establish a coffee farm.
Some important caveats: though the narrator herself isn't prejudiced, the racism embedded in every aspect of her family's story and this period of African history is glaring.
The narrator's critique of these attitudes is pretty obvious tonally, but she doesn't break character to address it directly from an adult's perspective - this is simply the world she lives in.
There's quite a few instances extramarital attraction, and I have to wonder whether Huxley did pick up on it when she was 6 (because it is possible), or whether she's looking back on her childhood memories with adult eyes and realizing that's what's happening.
I also found the memoir a bit disjointed, with nothing really tying everything together.
It reads more like an unconnected collection of anecdotes, and it's perhaps for that reason that I felt it rather slow going.I much preferred Beryl Markham's West with the Night for a look at colonial Kenya through a child's eyes.
It was a stroke of brilliance to write this book from the point of view of a small child.
The same was true for her descriptions of the different tribal peoples who worked on or near her father’s coffee plantation.So why didn’t I love this book?
Here again were people who seemed less restrained by societal mores the farther they moved from their home cultures.Still, I will always remember Huxley’s description of a sunset as “rose, lemon and the color of flamingo’s wings”.
Would-be writers should read this book as a lesson in writing fresh metaphors.
I had been searching for this book for a few years after reading an article about the author-she lived a full and adventurous life.
It had also mentioned her childhood in Africa and I have been drawn to stories of Africa since reading the book West With the Night years ago.
I read most of this book but finally admitted to myself that I was not enjoying the book.
The lack of respect for Africa and it's people was also just something I could not just ignore.
Written nearly 50 years after the life events described in this memoir, it seems to me that Huxley did significant filling in of details and dialog that couldn't have been pure memory.
By doing this, Huxley made her "memoir" so much more interesting and very readable, but I can't consider it to be purely non-fiction, although it is listed as such.
It is hard to imagine what life was like for this family, and other settlers of that time and place, who came to British East Africa in the pre-WWI years, to scratch out farms, in the case of this family, a coffee farm.
I could not put this childhood adventure down..neglected everything today..to complete this book!Whe
(Although how this child happens to always just happens to be in a position to overhear adults carrying on their love affairs gets a little ridiculous about two-thirds in.) The tension between the white settlers and the African natives is also drawn with a detailed hand, but this is more due to her skill as a writer than any actual progressive attitude.
Huxley may dwell on the ignorance of the natives when first confronted with paraffin lamps, but she dwells equally if not more on the ignorance of the settlers who try to farm from books and impose British "civilization" on those who do not need it.
In 1971 I had the good fortune of spending six weeks studying in Kenya and Tanzania, some of the same places that the author lived and wrote about.
Reading this book today, almost a century after it was written, the changes that have taken place are not only shocking but tremendously sad.
Native Africans lived for centuries in the area, taking only what they needed to live on.
Now the English have left, Kenya has the highest population growth in the world, trying to scratch out a living any way they can, leaving the earth barren and the wildlife gone.
The Flame Trees of Thika: Memories of an African Childhood" by Elspeth Huxley, is a delightful book, about a girl who goes from England to Kenya at age six, where her parents run a coffee plantation.
The book describes an idyllic childhood, just as I think it should be for any child.
One hopes that even after death, you could at least take a few of your favorite books to pass the time away!
I read the source book back then and loved it.
Both a portrait of Africa during imperialism, the struggle of the settlers in their harsh surroundings, and a coming of age story for a young girl.
The real star of this book is Africa and Huxley's prose paints a lovely picture of both the time and the place.
This book inspired me to one day go to Africa - which I eventually accomplished right before I turned 40 - and that was one of the most amazing trips of my life.
A memoir, written much later in life, of the author as a six year old, arriving in Kenya with her parents in 1913.
There were of course native people in the area.Written with the author as a child, she displays the childlike naivety in some areas, but also demonstrates a complete understanding of the adult interactions, which is a little strange.
I couldn't pick whether she embellished the memories she had, was filled in on details later, or this is more fictionalised than memoir.Having said that, it was well written, interesting and very readable.
