https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38743.All_Things_Bright_and_Beautiful
The gorgeous Yorkshire Dales...The vast and windswept Yorkshire Dales...This time around the country vet deals with drunk farmers, gets drunk on the job himself, has his Christmas spirit dashed and renewed all in one day, laments the disappearance of horses from farms, puts up with a snobby intern, and gets called up for service in the war raging in Europe.
The narrative is loose enough for Herriot to drop in things like past veterinarian calls and memories of pre-married life and coming up short in the eyes of his father-in-law.
Some are true, some are fabricated for sheer pleasure, and all are based on Herriot's (pen name) long career through out the 20th century, a time of change in the veterinarian and UK farming industry.
The second of Herriot's wonderful memoirs of his veterinary practice in mid-twentieth century Yorkshire. As with All Creatures Great and Small, his love for the place, the people, and the critters is palpable on every page. Recommended for everyone, especially animal lovers and Anglophiles. But be warned - some of the medical procedures are pretty gruesome.
I then Googled James Herriot and learned that his real name was James Wight, and that his wife's name was actually Joan (not Helen as it is in the book).People, can you understand how ANNOYING this is to me?This book is clearly selling itself as an “autobiographical memoir.” In fact, it doesn't even come with the disclaimer that This book is a work of fiction on the copyright page.So, DOES “Mr. Herriot” have extraordinarily small hands for a vet?
Watching her now as she got down and started to serve my breakfast the warm knowledge flowed through me as it did so often that my wife was the sort who just liked looking after a man and I was so very lucky.All Things Bright and Beautiful, James Herriot 1974 regarding his life in the thirties.I realize now that many do not know James Herriot.
In fact, I think I would like to find them on DVD when the girls get bigger.Also, I've discovered that the audio book I had was narrated by the fellow who played him on the series and that he has narrated most of the books written by Herriot.
This series - of which I have now read the first two - is the most fun you can have reading books. They make you want to go to rural England, hole up in a cottage, drink tea and read some more James Herriot. I don't want these books to ever end. As an aside, this isn't a novel, rather its a collection of short stories, each one just the right length for before bed.
What can I say? I simply love James Herriot. He was an absolute natural with story-telling. This book, just like his first, is heartwarming and puts the reader through an entire gamut of emotions.
“It was one of the most satisfying experiences of my working life.
Not clever, but a magical transformation; from despair to hope, from death to life within minutes.”James Herriot’s memoirs are my desert island books.
They’re comfort reads of the best kind—not in the sense that every story ends happily (some don’t), and certainly not in the sense that life in rural England was easy (it wasn’t), but in the sense that whether things go well or go sideways, you can be certain of Herriot’s wise and kind words ...
All Things Bright and Beautiful is brimming with warmth, humor, and Herriot’s obvious affection for his animal patients—and for their humans.
The James Herriot books are a bright memory from a difficult time in my life. Struggle lightened by the laughter brought through these pages. Also some painful moments because life has it's painful moments and they can't be avoided. He told them just as he told the others. While I have read that the stories related here were not necessarily told in order or as they happened exactly, this is a wonderful book (these are wonderful books) not to be missed.I can't recommend these highly enough.
“Those were the days when I was most grateful I was in country practice; the shirt sleeve days when the bleak menace of the bald heights melted into friendliness, when I felt at one with all the airy life and growth about me and was glad that I had become what I never thought I would be, a doctor of farm animals.” – James HerriotThis book could make the most hardened city dweller want to give up their cosmopolitan lifestyle and buy a farm in the countryside with a couple of pigs, sheep and a working dog called Jock.
Otherwise, his stories will do nicely.All Things Bright and Beautiful is the second in a trilogy of memoirs about James Herriot’s life as a Scottish country vet in the Yorkshire Dales.
But for me, personally, the fact that James Herriot always strives for a sense of balance in and with his memoirs is really and truly what have made these not just enjoyable reads but also total and everlasting favourites (as the entertainment provided by All Things Bright and Beautiful and the described and depicted physical beauty of the Yorkshire Dales are framed with and by important lessons on not only the joys but also the many problems, the potential tragedies of farming, of animal husbandry for both the farmers and also for the veterinarians treating the latter's stock, being responsible for farm animals' wellbeing, but sometimes and even rather too often not really being able to successfully cure many of the animal diseases that occur, that manifest themselves).
Just about as hilarious as "All Creatures Great and Small," although I felt a rising panic every time Granville Bennett showed up. Towards the end of the book World War II arrives and Herriot, Tristan, and Siegfried have to enlist, so there were some moving chapters when James takes leave of the Dales. As with the first book, plenty of drinking (Granville Bennett!) and swearing (Siegfried!).
His tales of treating farm animals and household pets, and of the human characters he met along the way, are what I have to describe as "heart-warming".
Even though I've read his stories multiple times since middle school, I find myself laughing aloud.This book comes second in the standard sequence of Herriot's books (in the US, anyway).
Like the others, it is a collection of episodic stories, with some recurring characters - rather like sitting around listening to your uncle telling bunches of stories about when he was younger.
Therefore, it's not really important to read the first book,  All Creatures Great and Small, before this one.
This sale has ended, but another volume of Mr. Herriot's, All Things Wise and Wonderful, has gone on sale for Kindle for $1.99. You can get it over here.********************************Another of James Herriot's hilarious and heartwarming memoirs, this book is on sale starting today at Kindle for only $1.99. I highly, highly recommend the entire collection of his books. You will not be disappointed. Get a copy here.
The adventures of a young vet in charming Yorkshire during the 30s continue. Quaint, nostalgic and light-hearted, the perfect comfort read
I first read this book 30 years ago, and I this week I listened to it in the car on a long road trip. These books are amazing and so funny. I spent half the drive going down the road laughing out loud in my car (and sometimes even tearing up a bit). When I was a child I was sure I wanted to be a veterinarian. I think these books probably made a huge contribution that. I never did become a vet, but I still love the books.
Gorgeous. A slightly more mature follow-up to "All Creatures Great and Small." In this collection, Herriott is married, gets drunk on the job, and cares for a variety of pets and farm animals. I'll listen to the other "sequels" but I'm in less of a hurry to do so than after the first of the series.
A beautiful wonderful book. All the stories were my favorites and at the end of listening to this I was tempted to just start it over again.
Las historias son un poco más repetidas, y además se nota que el autor ya sabe que lo que escribe va a ser leído, entonces a veces fuerza un poco el "punch line" de sus anécdotas.¡Pero igual bueno!
También el avance de la medicina (veterinaria), porque el pobre autor antes las pasaba negra sin poder evitar que manadas enteras se murieran frente a sus ojos...
entre las vacunas que no existían, y los remedios "mágicos" de los curanderos autoproclamados varios, jajaja (aunque, en honor a la verdad, eso pasa todavía).Y quería agregar algo más.
One of the things that makes it such a leisurely, wonderful read is that the chapters are mostly self-contained.
This is a wonderful book to listen to on a road trip because the chapters read a bit like short stories, and the whole of the book is wonderful, rewarding, and funny.
It's also steeped in all the heartbreak and worry of a country vet's life in the 1930s, but Herriot's natural compassion for animals and humans both and his gift for characterization, make this a truly remarkable book.
I wish there were more memoirs like this written by vets, but Herriot seems to be unmatched in his talent for distilling his life and practice into meaningful anecdotes.
There are some books you read where you just wish you could live in the world the writer portrays.
James Herriot is like that for me.
His stories of 30s rural Yorkshire life as a vet are warm and engaging, funny and lively.
This is another book of short stories, loosely held together as one novel.
It also helps that many of the stories in this book are longer than in the previous one, so you don't feel as bounced around.
All in all, a wonderful read.
Another Herriot book, they're just so.. soothing to read. I mean, nothing much really seems to happen. You don't ever hang on the edge of your seat because of the suspense, it's just... pleasant. Here, let me tell you about these wonderful animals I once treated in a nice farm out in Yorkshire. That's all this book is somehow, and yet I love it! It's wonderful!Of course, it helped that I was reading this while on holiday in Britain, so I was going to all these places mentioned in the book, which was all kinds of fun.
Herriot comes across as a person who knows his community and the people in it and how to deal with both of them.This isn't the first book in the series, but I am reviewing it first because I like the way the song goes: All things bright and beautiful, All creatures great and small, All things wise and wonderful, The Lord made them all.
He is a man who does his job in a good and sometimes excellent way, and goes home to his wife knowing he is earning the love and respect of his community one day at a time.
I read this delightful series of books back in the 1970s when they were first released.
I was a teenager then, and I find that a lot of the books I loved as a teenager are not as enjoyable to me when I reread them as an adult.
Although I did listen to the audio version this time instead of actually reading the book, I found it just as delightful and pleasant as I did when reading it all those years ago.
The reader on the audio version's voice complemented the written word, and I found myself transported to Yorkshire in those pre-war days of long ago.
Another lovely book by James Herriot, veterinary doctor and author. As usual, each sentence manages to be matter of fact as well as filled with the love of animals, nature and mankind. Poignant stories, weird stories, funny stories... all the facts of rural life narrated with compassion, benevolence and humor.Don't read or listen to this in public. This will make you cry, exclaim, and finally laugh out loud (in that area the anecdotes including Granville Bennett were priceless) without restraint.
I'm still very much enjoying this series that is masterfully narrated on audiobook by Christopher Timothy, the actor who played James Herriot in the BBC TV series.
Read in its entirety to my infant, who I expect now to become an expert in 1930's veterinary medicine.
Re-read as audiobook.
12/11/17 $1.99 for Kindle.
This was a well-written and informative book. It is also quite comforting to return to these characters and the scenery. This is one of the best books that I've listened to in a while.
James Herriot is one of my all-time favorite authors and I firmly believe that everyone should read at least one of his books (if you can manage to stop at one). His acute depiction of human nature as well as his incredible writing and delightful sense of humor make this a book that is practically perfect in every way.
