https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/411761.The_Book_of_Daniel
Governing emotion : white-hot angerUnderneath that : confusion (for the characters, for the reader)Style : I’m EL Doctorow and it’s 1971 and society is caving in and I’m gonna put anything I like in my novel, chunks of political analysis, satires of hippy revolution, childhood memoir, denunciations of the old left, lists of candy bars I once ate.
I would say it’s made up of 30% Daniel’s memories of childhood and the great dramas playing around the heads of him and his sister; 40% the story of the mother & father; and 30% Daniel’s present day life & times - he is now a hippy revolutionary and his sister is in a mental hospital.
Κάθε χώρα είναι ο εχθρός των πολιτών της"Είναι δύσκολο να φανταστώ πως υπάρχει συγγραφέας που γράφει καλύτερα ιστορικά μυθιστορήματα απ'τον Doctorow (έχω βέβαια μια αδυναμία στην παρέα των Ιταλών που υπογράφουν ως Luther Blissett/Wu-Ming) αλλά αυτό μάλλον συμβαίνει γιατί ο Αμερικανός είναι ένας χαρισματικός γραφιάς, κάτι που αποδεικνύεται περίτρανα στο πραγματικά δύστροπο Βιβλίο του Ντάνιελ (τέταρτο δικό του που διαβάζω αν κ έχω ξεκινήσει ένα ανεπίσημο project να διαβάσω τα άπαντα με τη σειρά κ έτσι να ξαναδιαβάσω Ragtime κ Παγκόσμια έκθεση που δεν θυμάμαι ούτε πως μου είχαν φανεί).
One Original American Classic. (Is there something to denote just how close to the perfect five stars this work truly is?) The type of novel Europeans, Latin Americans,& all other world Masters tremble at. One can say this novel is absolutely magical... Devastating and lifeaffirming. Art-affirming. Definitely my favorite novel by Mr. Doctorow.
I bring this book almost every time I talk to writers or editors.
The story was almost secondary to the incredible way the book was written.
If an author ever wonders why his switches in either aren't working I direct them to this book to see why this one worked so well.
I ask editors all the time what they would do if they got something like this.
I still wonder if this would be published today, or if the agents and editors who came across it would just say it was "confusing." There were some exceptional bits of sex writing in here as well.
This is a fictionalised account of the execution of the Rosenbergs told through their son a decade later.ELD shifts the perspective and addresses the relationship between the sovereign state and the individual,modern American history,it's politics and movements and its judicial system and of course the Cold War.The characterisation and dialogue are strong.Written In 1971 the themes of this novel may still be relevant in modern America.
Wow. What a novel.
What a work of genius.
The Book of Daniel is a work of genius like no other.
It's a political novel, but that's not all it is.
And as for the style, wow!
Fiction writing teachers must be flipping out when they read this, for it breaks all their feeble rules about style and point of view, etc, etc., but the truth is only a writer like E.
L.Doctorow could've attempted a novel like this, there's no one I can think of who could try this and pull it off.
That true story is the foundation of this novel, only here the name is Isaacson and the children are Daniel and his younger sister Susan.
He tells the story of his birth parents and their politics as he remembers it.
How they felt that  the children's home in which they were then placed equaled their "jail."  How the case can be, and has been, analyzed to death.I thought the book went all over the place with little or no transition, and it was often too bogged down in details and politics for my tastes.
I loved the prose style, and the subject matter was heavy and riviting, but this book suffered from having an utterly unlikeable narrator and from that irritating brand of misogyny that one so often sees in the writing of progressives in that era.
Every woman in this book, including the narrator's mother and sister, is described in terms of her fuckability.
And let's not forget the sexual violence!
I suppose this is supposed to make the narrator levels of complexity, a tortured aspect, a countercultural antiheroic identity, but it really just takes away from the narrative and doesn't support the text.
To date, this is the best Doctorow book that I've read (the other two being Ragtime and Billy Bathgate, both of which left me underwhelmed).
Some of these family scenes are quite touching, but at its best, The Book of Daniel serves as something of an American history lesson, with primary focus on the commie Left.
I suppose that would have messed with Doctorow's narration, but even then it seems like Daniel would have spent more time telling her story.
Sorry Doctorow, Daniel is still a fucktard in my book.
Είναι τυπικό παράδειγμα μυθιστορήματος στο οποίο ιστορία και μυθοπλασία διαπλέκονται και, χάρη στον έντονα μεταμυθοπλαστικό χαρακτήρα του και τη διάχυτη ειρωνεία που διαρκώς υποσκάπτει την αλήθεια και αντικειμενικότητα των ντοκουμέντων (κείμενα δημοσιογραφικά, νομικά κ.λπ.) που εντάσσονται στην αφηγηματική ροή, το έργο επιτυγχάνει να προβληματίσει τον αναγνώστη για την ίδια τη φύση της ιστοριογραφίας: μήπως όσα καταγράφονται ως ιστορία είναι απλώς μια κατασκευή; Μια μυθοπλασία; Στο τέλος του μυθιστορήματος δεν δίνονται ξεκάθαρες απαντήσεις· η αναζήτηση του κεντρικού ήρωα σχετικά με τα γεγονότα του παρελθόντος δεν καταλήγει σε συγκεκριμένα συμπεράσματα.
σελίδες για τη Disneyland) κατάσταση της Αμερικής στις δεκαετίες του '60 και '70.
One of the great political novels. An emotional jeremiad about the fallout from the Rosenberg spy case and Communist witch hunts, viewed from turbulent perspective of the late 1960s. Much more radical in terms of both structure and content than Doctorow's reputation would lead you to believe. A harrowing howl of a book that's been overshadowed by famous lesser work.
Although this book was written much later, it was assigned as part of my "Law and Literature" class in law school to represent the period of the 1950s and it could not have been a better choice.So many people think of the 1950s in America with such fondness as a simpler time wherre things were great for everyone.
It certainly wasn't so great if you were black and it certainly was not so great it you were a suspected communist.What I remember most from this book is the passages concerning Disneyland and how Doctorow distilled all that is wrong about it so perfectly.
I also loved the passages concerning the transplant of organs.
Just wonderful and awesome and one that I immediately loved after reading.
To hunt hunters need game… And witch hunters need witches… If there are no real witches then the ordinary people may always be dyed as the ones.“It’s too fucking hot.
You want to know what was wrong with the old American Communists?
They put people up for President.
They were Russian tit suckers.
Russia!
Who’s free in Russia?
All the Russians want is steel up everyone’s ass.
Where’s the Revolution in Russia?”And politicos need the stuff out of which they can make their politics… Otherwise everyone will see that the king is naked… And this stuff is common people…
It pained me, it caused me to cringe and my face to contort at some events and descriptions and all.
Reading the book was a labor on its own, I had to be careful and pay attention to ever detail all through the story so that I wouldn't miss a thing...
I got mentally tired after reading it, not in a bad way though, in a way a day of hard work that you absolutely love makes you tired...Idk,,, It just was a great a book...
It made you feel the pain by using a very realistic, matter-of-fact language, and that is art!
Well, the style was certainly a shock to me, as I typically read the classic romantics.
I had just finished reading "Death in Venice" prior to this book, where even abhorable acts suck as pedophilia are presented in such a passive way, and with such tact, that they almost seem respectable, or at least understandable.
I ended up having the most sympathy for the lawyers in the book (which is completely shocking and out of character for me), in Daniels adopted parents and the family lawyer.Though my favorite aspect of this book was the historical value; the Red Scare, Russian history, and just the 60s.
a stunning book to start off the new year. im inspired, im angry, im so so sad.
He wants to believe they're innocent, and just victims of circumstance: "In a world divided in two, the radical is free to choose one side or the other.
The metaphor of fire is electricity." Finally, there's a long quotation about prison as a metaphor for death that I want to hold on to: "Who wrote that Russian story, was it Babel or maybe Yuri Olesha, about a man dying in his bed.
The punishment of prison inflicts the corruption of death on life"Themes: 1950s, 1960s, American communism, family, innocence, Cold War, sex, family legacy, destruction of childhood, sibling love, the obscurity of truth
TBoD touches on hysteria in America as it pertained to a fictional Rosenberg-like couple as told through the eyes of their son Daniel.
The narrator switches from 1st to third person seemingly at random, and is a generally awful person (so super hard to like).
*shudder*One of many favorite (of many great) quotes: "If justice cannot be made to operate under the worst possible conditions of social hysteria, what does it matter how it operates at other times?"This was my first Doctorow novel, and I knew nothing about him before reading it.
What a great choice, and his other books will have a hard time living up.
This novel is a comment on the shifts in progressive politics in America in the mid-twentieth century. In the late 60s, a graduate student writes a dissertation on execution; the dissertation has particularly personal meaning for the student, whose parents were executed as spies in the early 50s (the parents are based partly on Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, who were electrocuted in 1953).
it's gonna be a no from me
Doctorow parallels the harried lives of the Isaacsons, two Jewish immigrants accused of espionage for their socialist politics, and their children, who involve themselves in the '60s antiwar movement to cope with the loss of their parents.
Not only are its characterizations sharp and on point, Doctorow's recreations of key events (the Peekskill Riots of 1949, the Isaacson/Rosenberg trial and their ultimate execution) evoke the McCarthy era more vividly than many nonfiction works.
But the book's passionate empathy for political outsiders and the victims of hysteria remains a selling point nearly a half-century after its publication.
Read for class and utterly unenjoyable.
For what I thought was going to be a bitter polemic against American society in 1971, I felt Doctorow was surprisingly even handed.
The Cold War execution of the Rosenbergs is more than echoed in Daniel Isaacson's parents.
But despite the obvious loaded dice of the authorities in stitching up his parents (whether they did pass secrets to the Russians or not is almost irrelevant), their naive communist faith is exposed as much as the fatuous Hippie protests.
Daniel's sister's hospitalisation and his wife's submissiveness offer him no challenge to stir and relieve his anger.
Brilliant. One of the best books written about the "event" that was the Rosenbergs (read with Kushner's "Angels in America" and [for a heaping of sardonic satire] Coover's _The Public Burning_). Doctorow draws us into questions of self, nation, and other that feel particularly relevant during this time of "patriot acts." A must-read for anyone interested in postwar American lit.
E. L. Doctorow is a wonderful writer with talent to burn. In this book, he burns a little bit of it.

Εντάξει. ΟΚ, Ε.Λ. Ντόκτοροου, ναι. Αλλά ξερωγώ πολλοί πειραματισμοί για ένα και μόνο βιβλίο ρ' αδερφέ, με το ύφος, ακόμα και με το είδος. Επιπλέον πολλά λάθη και στη μετάφραση, τα οποία έκαναν την ανάγνωση ακόμα δυσκολότερη. Εντάξει. ΟΚ. Όχι τίποτα τρομερά δύσκολο. Αλλά όχι και τίποτα τρομερό ούτως ή άλλως. Αν δεν είχα διαβάσει το Ράγκταϊμ και έπιανα πρώτα το βιβλίο του Ντάνιελ, δεν ξέρω αν θα το τελείωνα. Δεν ξέρω αν, τελειώνοντάς το τελικά, θα έπιανα άλλο βιβλίο του Ντόκτοροου. Αλλά εντάξει, ΟΚ, ναι, υπάρχει πάντα το Ράγκταϊμ.
After seeing the Broadway show, Angels in America, I wanted to learn about the Rosenberg Trial. Though the book was technically fiction, it was a great Rosenberg Trial 101.
A masterpiece! This is how a novel should be written. Reminded me so much of Saul Bellow.
The back cover declared this book a "masterpiece". I thought it "unreadable". Found it very difficult to get my head around the early part of the book and decided to stop reading.
