https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/745677.Selected_Poems_and_Letters
Bees and calvary.I wanted to like this more than I did.
The poems are short and sharp.
The language plain -- understandable on the surface at least, by anyone who speaks English and can think.
You don't even need access to a dictionary.
In these ways, I have always thought she had a place somewhat akin to, say, Dylan Thomas, or maybe Frost.And yet, mostly these poems left me feeling a bit cold.
But that's not what I look for in a poem.
And for whatever reason, these poems didn't hit me on a deeper level.
At the present, however, all the misery that women willingly endure hinges on their belief in the Calvinist teaching that in heaven they will finally gain their “Wings”.
This poem, however, does not focus so much on deriding the church’s teachings, but rather explores how women can find divinity in nature that is just as wondrous as that which they would encounter in heaven.
The fact that Dickinson’s works were published post-mortem did not in any way diminish the profound impact that Emily Dickinson has had on future generations of American poets, both women and men.
Her poems cut with the honesty of a child and the experience of woman beyond her years.I wish this edition did not correct her grammar. I think grammar, especially in poetry is just as telling and revealing.
She is a true talent. Fucking amazing stuff.
Love the cover on this book--she looks so MEAN. It appears to me she had a sharp little wit that she mercilessly quelled. Possibly this is what the cover artist was thinking of.
This collection was my first exposure to Emily Dickinson's writing.
I actually enjoyed the letters more, finding in them many new glimpses of 19th-century life, particularly from Emily's perspective as a New England woman.
The change in her letters - from the bubbly excitement of a would-be socialite, to the melancholy enigma of her later years - is something I would like to learn more about.
I shared some of the most memorable quotes in my blog post, Emily Dickinson in 10 Quotes.
I also recommend checking out the Emily Dickinson Museum website.
It has a ton of information to contextualize and clarify the letters for the modern reader.
Emily's letters to her various family and friends paint the portrait of a life devoted to the love she has for her friends, her delight in every flower and small creature in her gardens, and her spiritual musings and questioning.
From the first letters as a curious school girl to the last letter on the day before her death, bearing only two words "Called Home"; this collection gave me the feeling of time travel and looking down at her life and inner thoughts from above.
I wish I could time travel and sit and have tea with Emily, and talk about her "bees, and frogs, and birds, and flowers" for hours.
This was nice
" …and I am out with lanterns, looking for myself." - Emily Dickinson
Your riches taught me poverty,Myself a millionaireIn little wealths, as girls could boast,Till, broa
I enjoyed this collection of Emily Dickinson's poetry and letters.
I always like reading poetry, but feel like I'm not getting it...enough.
Particularly with Dickinson's work, I always find it beautiful, moving, and provocative, but often can't seem to decipher true meaning, let alone note her stylistic prowess and its connotations.What I enjoyed most about this collection was the letters.
You can truly see the evolution of Emily Dickinson from age 14 until her death at 56.
The beauty and craft evident in her letters was hugely impressive- I wish I could write like that in day-to-day life without sounding like a pretentious flake.


I need to get back to reading more poetry.I remember loving some of these poems in my youth so I picked up this volume because I thought the letters would furnish some added insight.Not to be; many of the letters are just as cryptic and enigmatic as her poems.So, back to the poems. I've spent some time savouring the ones that are like drops of mind-expanding drugs, and labouring over others that remain impenetrable (at least by my modest brain), and finally, rejecting those that touch too closely on flowers blooming in the spring.Singular Emily.
Although clearly very skilled work, it's not entirely my thing. At least, not in a collection like this. It's very ruminative, focusing on issues like death, heaven, immortality, nature, wonder etc. I can see myself loving reading one Dickinson poem, but so many different examinations of the same abstract ideas was a little too much for me. I guess I prefer a little earthiness mixed in. I'd rather laugh with the sinners than cry with the saints, to quote Billy Joel.
I've attempted to read Dickinson multiple times but it's always painful. I continually think of teenage whining angst while reading and basically don't want to hear it. Yeah, yeah, life is terrible and you want to die, we've heard it before. Dickinson was so introverted she made her own life a hell.
Well, it's full of Emily Dickinson's poems, so of course it's good. My main complaints are that it doesn't include the original versions of the poems (with Dickinson's dashes and irregular capitalization) and that it includes many of her less known and less developed short little poems while leaving out some of the more critically examined ones, for example "My Life had stood – a Loaded Gun."
She was an agoraphobic who lived much of life in a single room in a house in Amherst. Yet, she had vision of life that was wide and wise. She was wordly. Her poems still speak to us. I read this collection after a director suggested that I play Emily in the play, The Belle of Amherst. Just brilliant.
Knowing how much I love Emily Dickinson's poems, a good friend gave this to my for my birthday this year. What a joy to reconnect with Ms. Dickinson! The book is now on my bedside table, and I read one or two of these gems before turning out the light. I wish I could have met this shy recluse with her wry way of looking at things.
I love Emily, but the editor of this collection seriously pissed me off by reformatting her poems to exclude her signature em dashes and capitalization. He also left off lines from several of the poems. NOT representative of her work AT ALL.
Good selection of poems. Her choice of adjectives is impressive and even though her words are of the past, they are very alive today. Example: "I never hear the word escape". And, as far as escapes go, I agree with her in her that "there is no frigate like a book".
The poems are brilliant, but this idiot editor went a little nuts by eliminating the dashes and capitalization. DO NOT BUY THIS BOOK. BUY ALMOST ANY OTHER DICKINSON COLLECTION.
Not much to say. Come on, it's Emily Dickinson! Knew it was great before I read it!
review to come
Forget the selected works, you need the complete works!!!
I love her poetry. There are many levels of meaning a person can find in them.
One of my favourite poets, lyrical and poignant.
how wide can a man be, when he commits to one thing on one place
If I ever get the chance to buy this, I will. Every poem was worth reading, and they were so soothing to read.
I enjoyed her letters more than her poems.
