https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181737.Servant_Leadership
Specifically, the Servant-Leader who captured Greenleaf's imagination and catalyzed the writing of this book was the fictional character Leo in Herman Hesse's "Journey to the East."More surprises remain in store throughout this book that challenges concepts seemingly ingrained in human nature and counter-intuitively argues for several revolutionary premises, not simply on the basis of morality, but rather effectiveness and societal need.In particular, Greenleaf argues that the advent of big business, large institutions, and corporate growth requires a paradigm shift in the view of leadership.
This book is directed predominantly at trustees and very high level leaders. Greenleaf's writing is very dry without much practical application for individuals who work in lower levels of an institution.
Greenleaf sets forth the almost utopic vision of "servant leadership" as a sort of modified "people-first" mentality.
I also found it interesting that Greenleaf predicted some of the political situations in which we now find ourselves.
He did it in the 1970s!I do agree with many of Greenleaf's assertions about servant leadership.
I do believe that one of a leader's responsibilities is to treat his/her people right and try to do what's good for both the organization and the people that comprise it.
Also, the book was hard to read.
The actual hardcover binding of the book also made it hard to read.
His theory of servant leadership is still very applicable today. Unfortunately, some of his examples of the application of this theory were dated and distracting. I would have enjoyed this read much more had Greenleaf focused on the message slightly more than the esoteric world of non-profit foundations, churches, and education of the '60s and '70s.
This book is intense and profound. I give it a three-star rating because while the teachings are extremely valuable, the content is not easily accessible. I will have to read the book one more time to fully absorb its messages.
First portion that explains servant leadership is rich with stories and distinctions to help bring the practice to life. Later parts are a decent historical reference to the conversations and debates of the time (written decades ago).
I've read a lot of books on leadership and its development.
Most focus on the How: how to get better, how to acquire the competencies to lead.
Many focus on the What: what leadership is, how it's recognized, and what competencies it is composed of.
The is one of the rare books that takes a sustained and focused look at the Why: why lead, the motivation, and why that matters.
This is a book of actual philosophy.
Philosophy is what distinguishes this from the "self-help" variety of leadership books.
This will stimulate thinking, and is worth pondering for a good while.
Powers, J. B., & Moore, J. W. (2004). Voices of leadership series (booklet 11): Servant-leadership and the art of teaching. Westfield, IN: The Greenleaf Center for Servant-Leadership. Inner characteristics or commitments: building community, commitment to growth of people, foresight, conceptualisation, awareness - p. 3Outer characteristics or practices: listening, empathy, healing, persuasion - p. 14A leader's power stems from five bases:1. Coercive: ability to instill fear2. Reward: ability to distribute value3. Legitimate: positional authority4. Expert: expertise, skill, knowledge5. Referent: others' identification with him- p. 20-21
Hard to follow
First few chapters are helpful and worth taking time to interact with. The rest of the book is very disjointed and hard to follow.
There were some really good ideas in this book, but Greenleaf is not a great writer and there was a sense of vagueness and abstraction to his ideas that made it difficult to grasp what he was envisioning.
I am really interested to read more about Servant Leadership from other authors who were inspired by Greenleaf's ideas.
There were some sentences and passages in this book with really insightful gems about leadership.
The part of the book I found the least interesting was his hypothesizing about executive structures and trustees.
In my opinion the book was also simply more pages than necessary to express the substance it had to convey.
Giving it 4 based on the concepts behind the book, as in many ways, this concept of Servant Leadership articulated a conceptual and real structure to how I have always approached leading teams, and from that perspective, was validating. The writing however, is old fashioned, painfully formal and disjointed- most of the book is a compilation of various talks, quotes, articles or memos the author has written over time to support his thesis- which becomes tedious. Like most business books, I find, the first 20% delivered 97% of the value- and that would have been enough.
Absolutely critical perspective on business structure and leadership, informed by the more subtle and effective philosophies of influence.
This should be required reading for individuals who are in management or want to be in a management position.
For a real understanding of Servant Leadership
Recommended by my boss when I was working in Corporate America. I don't recall specifics but remember that I agreed with the overall concept and wish it was more prevalent.
In fact, I got more out of the final chapters and the Afterword, especially in the afterword's summaries of some key principles.I do not know that I would re-read the text in full, but I will return to the passages I highlighted and made notes at in order to more fully grasp, understand, and seek to Iive the concept of the servant leader.
This is a very good book on leaders as servants; doing an excellent job of delineating what that idea truly means.
Greenleaf suggests that foundational to a successful institution is the requirement that it must be more than simply the chief administrator who has a deep commitment.
He calls for the board/trustees/synod/executive committee to be comprised of highly committed individuals who are very supportive of the missional goal of the organization.
He insists that the chief administrator (CEO/president/minister) should be a first among equals.
But he also insists that the equals must be equally committed to make the institution successful.
The book expands and offers thoughts about the ways to accomplish this.
This book invites the reader to reflect and look deep into their lives and how they are serving the world.
The book goes into detail of what it takes to be a great leader and some strategies one can do to achieve leadership.
A leader is not born, they are created.
I really enjoy reading this book because it has given me tools to become a leader.
This book would be great for a high school student who can relate to these concepts.
It can serve a project to teach other students things that are very prominent in their everyday lives.
Though dated in its cultural references, Greenleaf presents a powerful description of true servant leadership; leadership focused on every person your enterprise touches - employees, customers, and society in general - asking, "Do they, while being served, become healthier, wiser, freer, more autonomous, more likely themselves to become servants?
And, what is the effect on the least privileged in society?
Great word for any enterprise - business, education, church, non-profit, etc.He also presents a great case for consensus leadership, flat top-level leadership, the "primus inter pares" (first among equals) approach.
Worth reading for anyone in a leadership role at any level in any organization.
In "Servant Leadership," Robert Greenleaf empowers readers with information and insight into the tools, knowledge, and moral aptitude of a true leader.
He explains how to align one's purpose with one's core values and the importance of aligning one's core values with one's mission and vision.
A servant leader upholds the mission and vision of the organization and models an example for all members to follow.
"Servant Leadership" is a timeless classic.
Greenleaf passionately writes from an abstract, theoretical perspective and more practical stories may have helped readers connect more to this selection, but the author is clearly committed to providing solid groundwork for modern-day servant leaders.
Greenleaf can't seem to decide whether his recommendations, which are elusive at times and fragmented at best, are grounded in Christian ethic and truth or not.
Some of his fundamental statements are certainly honorable but idealist and utopian in a fallen, sinful, and self-centered world.
In some sense, it smelled of a culture reforming theology without the explicit biblical anchor.
This is a man with a heavy heart and a strong moral compass that struggled to stay on point.
The book provides more of a collection of personal conceptual reflections vs.
a practical guide on how to implement a leadership of servanthood.
I found Greenleaf's writing style very difficult to wade through--it felt unnecessarily dry and complex for the subject matter. My second biggest issue with it has more to do with the time in which it was written--it's now about 40 years old--and the fact that it seemed to be reflective of attitudes and assumptions that I no longer carry in today's world. This book laid the foundation of "servant leadership" that has had a major influence on the church but in many ways I found the book condescending and patronizing rather than empowering.
I meet monthly with a group of organizational development folks. Some of them are professors. Some are consultants. Others are practitioners in their organizations. I love the meetings because they challenge me to learn and grow. Several of the participants are connected to the Greenleaf Center for Servant Leadership. It’s through this connection that I came to read Servant Leadership.Click here to read the full review
This book is a series of writings and lectures about the concept of servant leadership. Some segments were very specific to servant leadership in churches, education, etc. I did not read this whole book, but did read the parts that applied to my development as a manager, which was most of the book. To that end, I was able to understand and embrace the principles of servant leadership and look forward to applying them in my job.
Row upon row of airport-bookstore management books cannot hold a candle to this, in my opinion. Greenleaf’s book is now about 30 years old, but in it you see a depth and rootedness that most writing in this genre lacks. It is not “10 Easy Steps to Greatness” but rather a thoughtful reflection on the very essence of leadership. Are you a leader or are you a boss? This is a vital distinction that is often overlooked in our search for efficiency and “professional management” tools.
The author, regarded as the founder of servant-leadership, proposes that service ought to be the distinguishing characteristic of leadership, while creating stronger corporations and organizations. This book is a collection of essays and talks presented by Greenleaf as he attempts to apply servant-leadership to the fields of education, business, foundations, churches and government. This is an excellent book, made all the better by the outstanding foreword written by Stephen R. Covey.
This was much more directed at institution and boards/trustees than I expected. As someone working in the lower ranks, I only took something from a couple of essays.Greenleaf also has much more faith in the ability of business to transform society than I do. I appreciate his words on the dignity of work but I'm not sure asking big businesses to lead that societal change will bring it about.
READ AUG 2009Unique take on the nature of institutions in the modern world and the role the trustee has as servant-leader. Best quote, "The servant-leader is servant first...it begins with the natural feeling that one wants to serve, to serve first. Then conscious choice brings one to aspire to lead" (p. 27).
This is not the first time I have read Greenleaf"s book and it won't be the last. I was fortunate to take a course on servant leadership that was taught by Larry Spears. Spears was instrumental in getting Greenleaf's work to be publicly available
