https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/350039.Mistral_s_Daughter
Who can forget this book? Many centuries ago, I loved this book in a maddening, insanely, obsessive way. lolol. Won't rate or review it until I reread it. I doubt if that will happen though. I'm grown-up now. Found myself in the meantime. Been there, done that, got the t-shirt, sort of. :-)
Molto carino, con una storia lineare e interessante, ambientazioni degne di nota e argomento intrigante - anche se alcuni personaggi sembrano fatti con lo stampino, ma in compenso la caratterizzazione degli altri è encomiabile (penso a Nadine e Kate, ma anche Avigdor è un personaggio che fa la sua figura).
Ma va bene dai, è un romanzo e non deve essere per forza credibile, più che altro questo ha influito sulla godibilità generale della storia, perché ad un certo punto, quando tre vite su tre ripercorrono praticamente le stesse situazioni, diventa un pochino noioso andare avanti.
Punti a favore: tema artistico, originalità, alcuni personaggi molto buoni, e ambientazioni deliziose.

This novel sweeps fifty years of art and fashion and women.The story starts with Magali, born a bastard because her father died of smallpox before he could marry her mother.
Kate is the reason Maggy leaves, the reason she falls in love with the rich American, and in the end the reason Teddy is born.
By the way, if you haven't read East of Eden yet, go and do yourself a favor and pick it up.Both Kate and her daughter are hateful creatures, but without them, there simply wouldn't be this book.
Ahhh, so enjoyable. Sure, it's shallow and formulaic and melodramatic, but Judith Krantz can sure string a pretty sentence together, packing in TONS of fancy details along the way. And it's so much fun to read about people that are impossibly good at what they do. (For example, Maggy the model is in her seventies but she looks SEVENTEEN. Haha!) The sex scenes are kind of tame, compared to Princess Daisy, anyway. I wish they'd make a movie again out of this book, with Rachel Hurd-Wood as Fauve.
Lo leí con 17 años y me pareció el culebron máximo. Hasta hicieron una miniserie debido al éxito que tuvo.Aviso: No sé qué pensaría ahora sí lo volviera a leer.
But I loved this book.
Loved it so much I've read it probably once every two years for the last 20 or so years.
I don't know if it's that I love the three generations of ginger women who inhabit this book, or because of the glamour of the settings and the people, or because she is actually a wonderful writer who paints lovely, and detailed pictures with her words, regardless of the fact that it's a glorified romance novel.
It's a family saga, not just a love story.
I've read other books by Krantz and enjoyed them for what they're worth but this one, for whatever reason, I can come back to again and again.
(Yes I just read it again - Dec 2012)
Classic beach read, decadent escapist fun and I loved it.
Could have been so much more. Full review:http://sleaze-factor.blogspot.ca/2015...
Ho appena finito di leggere questo libro e devo dire che sono un po' stordita perché è quasi il contrario di ciò che mi aspettavo.
ma devo dire che Parigi è quasi una parentesi!
devo dire altro?+1 per la Provenza solo per il fatto che esiste!4) Benché l'edizione faccia parte della collana "i grandi romanzi d'amore", non l'ho trovato propriamente un "romanzo d'amore".Non amo i romanzi d'amore, generalmente mi annoiano...
Se uno dei punti a favore è stato quello di non essere propriamente una storia d'amore, devo dire che qualche raro momento "Harmony" l'ho visto...
The other early main character, Maggie, should have been interesting, but I couldn't connect with her or her scandalous pairing with Mistral--this plot line, though racy & raunchy enough, was a bit of a snooze.
I was not to be disappointed.
The Teddy character (Maggie's daughter) was dreamy and her storyline dramatic.
The real payoff for pushing through this almost 600 page novel came with the Fauve character (Maggie's granddaughter and Teddy's daughter) and plot line.
The ending did not disappoint.
This was another one of my beloved books back in the days when growing up. (Well never managed to) ;)Light read but great story. Have read this book at least twice. Later there was a mini series based on this which I loved as well.
I loved reading about the artists as people and enjoyed his daughter that " sees as an artist". Well done.
I was a knitaholic in those days, and any book with hard covers that opened flat on my lap was game, as I could knit and read at the same time.
This was, of course, in the days before even the VCR, when Spain's Channel 1 started at 3 PM and went off-air at midnight or so.
I really enjoyed the 1920s part, but Krantz worked too hard at the old generational saga thing.
Oh please.The three Lunel women are illegitimate, ie legally bastards, but that's okay, because the gospel according to Krantz appears to be that all men are fuelled by their sex drives, particularly artists, and are each and every one untrustworthy users.
This was a fantastic read down memory lane and a realisation that nowadays there aren't these family sagas over 50 years that were so prevalent in the 1980's.This starts in Paris in the 1920's, covers the prewar and wartime in occupied France, moves to the fashion and modelling scene of the 1950's and ends in the 1970's just before the rise of the supermodel.
Maggy, Fauve and Kate were especially well written, while those last pages on Nadine were excellent although I remember that in the mini-series they made her more sympathetic with a lovely scene on Julien's death.
The best Krantz novel I read so far!It moved through worlds, from France, to New York, back to France, back to New York, and back to France again!
I could feel easiness of the time period; the carefree lifestyle of leisure and pleasure.
Even though Perry Kilkullen was only in the book for a split second, he was sexy.
Teddy was a lot like Freddy, from Till We Meet Again, the book I read before this one.
Fauve essentially had her childhood split between France and New York.
I honestly though, a few times, she was going to school in Felice.
uno dei primi JK che abbia letto (si, vabbè, ognuno ha i propri scheletri nell'armadio, il junk food della mente per quando non si ha voglia di altro. e comunque io a-do-ra-vo JK!) Schema solito: 3 donne, 1 cattivo, 3 amori, 1 passione. Alla fine l'amore trionfa sempre. O quasi. A volte non proprio come te lo aspetti.Però i cattivi pagano sempre, e spesso la condanna è elargita con perfidia.(edit: letto nel 1990, recensione del 2018: chissà dove li ho messi tutti i miei JK? li rileggerei volentieri!)
Well it took me over thirty years to get to this one, but it was well worth the wait.This story draws you into the Paris art scene of the early 20th century, the financial crash of the 1930's, the excitement of the post World War Two years, and the beginning of the era of the supermodel.
It is also a family saga that follows three women and how their lives turned out.
Some parts of the family story play with your heart strings.
Eventhough this story was written in the 1980's it doesn't feel dated at all.
I am glad I finally got around to this wonderful story.
this was a worn looking find, probably at a garage sale or a charity shop. I found the characters very stereotypical, the heroines were good, the other women were bad, and the biggest jerk of them all was this man they all revolve around. It is long and sometimes the storyline got lost in the details. I think I may have liked it more if I read it when it came out, 35 years ago, when I was a lot younger.
I read this book when it first came out. It is my favorite Judith Krantz book. I remember picking up this book and reading it straight through. It was a great story with wonderful characterization.
I remembered the mini-series from my childhood so I purchased this at a library book sale. The story is actually quite interesting, but the characterizations are abysmal. Still, it's some good 80s camp if you're feeling nostalgic.
I liked this book more than I thought I would, due to the subject matter. But, I found the author's writing style and detail made the book interesting and set apart of others of the genre.
A good old-fashioned novel, with a romantic ending. Krantz is now 90 years old, and has a lovely career to enjoy. The book is long but if you like long reads, it is a good one.
It was a good book for an easier reading about people what live out of the box.
3.5 - classic 80s novel, great escapist literature, light read, lovely Provençal and Parisian settings. Picked it up on a whim and read it straight through.
Loved this book when I read it, but that was a lifetime ago; I don't think it would have the same impact now...the world was a very different place...
It is a masterful historical romance.There was a mini series with Stacy Keach and Stephanie Powers which was not too bad, but I saw it in the late 80's so I am quite sure it won't hold up to the passage of time.SPOILERS---------------------------------------------------------------------------From IMDB: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0086762/Plot Summary for"Mistral's Daughter" (1984)  Beautiful and naïve Maggy Lunel arrives in Paris completely broke.
In the meantime, Maggy has a daughter named Teddy who grows up and falls in love with Mistral with whom she has a child named Fauve.
As Mistral ages, he comes to terms with his selfish past and wartime betrayal through his art, leaving a beautiful legacy for his daughter, Fauve.
Very long book.
You have a grandmother who had a long ago affair, then her daughter from another affair has an affair with the same man.
The daughter has a daughter with the man who the grandmother previously had an affair with!!!
His one true love was the daughter of the woman who he once had an affair with.
Opens with the death of the artist then goes back in time, through the affair with the grandmother, the grandmothers affair with the man who is the father of her daughter.
Then the affair of the daughter and the author.
Fortunately, Krantz has also populated her book with interesting, dynamic characters whose lives allow Krantz to depict at length Paris and the Provençal countryside.
The story is so beguiling, however, that one barely notices it goes on for more than 500 pages.
Though at the time this book was written, 1975 was almost the present day, because of the overt reference to the year instead of setting the book in the ambiguous “present”, the story does not feel outdated.
It was a good book and a good miniseries with Stacy Keech (Mistral) and Stephanie Powers (model), and Timothy Dalton (married man). An artist model poses for Mistral and he becomes successful. They break up and she moves to New York and becomes involved with a married man. He enters a loveless marriage to an ambitious woman who become his manager and makes him rich. In the meantime the model has an illegitimate daughter, Teddy. The married man dies and doesn't make provisions for them in his wi
It was a good book and a good miniseries with Stacy Keech (Mistral) and Stephanie Powers (model), and Timothy Dalton (married man).
They break up and she moves to New York and becomes involved with a married man.
The married man dies and doesn't make provisions for them in his will.
When her daughter Teddy grows up, she goes to Europe and meets Mistral, they fall in love and have a child.
When she is tragically killed, the grandmother (the model) takes her to New York to raise her.
When the child (Mistral's daughter) grows up, someone tells her that her father denied refuge to Jews during the war.
