https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32502.Angels_Flight
The cynic in Harry speculates that he's been given the case because the other two members of his team are black and the department hopes that this will help tamp down the furor that is bound to explode in the black community when the victim's names are announced.Given the way the shooting occurred, Harry quickly concludes that Elias was the principal target and that the poor female victim was simply in the wrong place at the wrong time.
The question is, can he push through all of this and solve the crime before the city explodes?Connelly has written here a complex story with a number of flawed and well-drawn characters, principal among them Harry Bosch.
A black civil rights attorney is murdered.
The lawyer was about to go to trial with a high profile case against the LAPD for police abuse against a murder suspect.
Harry Bosch is assigned to the case and told to solve the murder as quickly as possible in order to avoid potential civic unrest.This is the first Harry Bosch novel I’ve read.
This one gets mired down in sub-plots involving Bosch’s crumbling marriage, the political in-games Bosch has to play to get anything done, and some of the creepiest stuff I’ve read in a while.Bosch has to be able to see the forest for the trees in a case that quickly zigs and zags in some fairly dark and unexpected places, yet ultimately, the focus of the case is personal.
My first ever Harry Bosch novel and I really enjoyed it.
Harry is a wonderful character and I am so glad he is not an alcoholic like so many of the main characters in these kinds of books.
The story line in this book is excellent and full of twists and turns.
The book starts off steadily and then rapidly becomes a page turner designed to keep the reader up late at night!
So now I have to go back and read the first Harry Bosch novel which I believe is the start of a series of about nineteen books.
He felt the desolation hit him again; but the call out by Deputy Chief Irving was another shock – out of their area, out of their district, and into an explosive case that would change lives, and in a violent and permanent way..Angels Flight was a combination of two trolley cars which ran from top to bottom of one of the steep inclines of LA – the motor to run the cars was at the top and operated by a driver.
Harry and his team (Kizmin Rider & Harry Edgar) are called to a murder scene at Angels Flight.
As with many of his cases, Harry's just drawn a really thorny, short stick.
Harry has to look internally for suspects and it's not pretty as the city is poised to erupt into violence over this murder.
This isn't an easy story and my original hunch (which I abandoned) turned out to be dead on, which was pretty exciting.
The change in narrators was a fairly seamless transition, though I miss Dick Hill's version of Jerry Edgar.
Still wild about Harry and this series.
Well, maybe some tropes but not the normal overused ones at least...The mystery here is a lawyer who prosecutes police officers is killed in cold blood and it looks like it could be a job undertaken by someone who works on the force.
But that wasn’t the issue, how everything was tied up just seemed a little strange especially (view spoiler)[how the perp got their comeuppance getting caught up in a riot and being beaten to death.
Bosch is well worth a read to anyone who hasn’t tried him and I look forward to continuing this series hoping for more of the same.
I have come to realize that this series is now my go to for when I don't know what I want to read, because I know that there's gonna be an interesting case (or two or three) and that Harry's situation is going to be tenuous at best, but despite it all, he's gonna do his damndest to get to the bottom of it...
One of the things that I love about this series is that we get to know the cops that Harry gets to know, and despite Harry's clear as crystal opinions of them, I never really know if I completely trust his views.
A complex and satisfying Bosch mystery.
I do believe that Harry is becoming far more politically adept as he ages, but at a cost.Angels Flight takes place in April 1999, so it appears that Harry and Eleanor have been married almost three years by this point.Sadly, in this book we see Eleanor and Harry's marriage break down.
The issues of race and police corruption are prevalent throughout, but well-presented, believable and sadly a reflection of the realities of the day.There is an additional theme of (view spoiler)[paedophilia and child abuse (hide spoiler)] in the book, but it's not overwrought, and you can skim past the nastiest parts.The final whodunit is a surprise, although some elements leading to the culmination of events I managed to guess in advance.Blistering pace, as usual.
This is only my second book about Harry Bosch, the first one was The Concrete Blonde.
And I have to admit that I liked this one even more than the previous one.Bosch is given the case of the murder of two people on the historic tram line.
It immediately turns out that one of the victims is the lawyer most hated by all policemen.
The list of people who wanted his death is extended and there are some Harry's colleagues on it.
There are lots of twists and turns.
This is definitely not my last book about Harry Bosch.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Angels Flight is a return to form after the mess that was Trunk Music. The homicides that are to be solved are satisfyingly complex. There are a couple of twists that I did not expect; especially the dark turn about 75% of the way in. I had seen the Bosch TV series before picking up this book, so I sort of knew the ending. Harry's life is still as miserable as ever and Deputy Chief Irving does things that are not in character.
This is the first of Connelly's books that I've listened to rather than read.
It was just as good in this media.
As usual, Harry 'Bulldog' Bosch just can't stand a loose end or an easy answer.
The crime was obvious, but led to another & another all twisted together in mess of conflicts between well drawn characters & tricky motives.
I'm really glad I'm reading these in order.
While this would stand alone well enough, knowing the background adds another dimension.
While this is HB #6, it's the 8th in published order.
See my review here for the full reading order.https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Connelly continues his first rate series concerning Harry Bosch and the L.A.P.D. As usual with Connelly, the plotting is tight and the story moves at a fast pace.
This Bosch story is especially compelling with its focus on the Los Angeles racial tensions between Blacks and the Police.
A prominent Black attorney is murdered on the eve of an important civil rights case which may seriously tarnish the reputation of the L.A.P.D. Connelly masterfully mines this fertile material for maximum impact and relevance to the current racial climate in Los Angeles.
As usual, Harry Bosch is an excellent character who brings some compassion and humanity into another ugly situation.
It’s tough to write a review about Michael Connelly’s 2000 Harry Bosch novel Angels Flight without introducing spoilers.I want to tell about his brilliant use of multiple famous crimes and his ability to weave together multiple police investigations and then tie them all together and wrap up his story with a heaping second helping of poetic justice.But I’d give it all away and Connelly has produced in Angels Flight a detective mystery gem.Describing the murder of an influential and controversial Los Angeles civil rights attorney, Connelly is able to channel the racial divide of the city that experienced numerous race riots over decades into a steaming race against time as the city is set to boil over.
Howard Elias had made a fortune suing the LAPD by representing predominantly black clients alleging (and winning) police brutality cases.
The natural first guess for suspects is the police force itself.
Found this a bit of a slow starter but developed into one of the best in the series with some clever twists and a great ending.
Michael Connelly, in the sixth book in his series featuring LA homicide detective Harry Bosch, "Angels Flight", tackles the absurdity and surrealism of racial politics in post-Rodney King/LA riots-era Los Angeles.
This is not to say some people on either side of the argument won't find something offensive in the book, but, in my humble opinion, Connelly remains fairly objective throughout.The title of the novel comes from the name of one of several historical trolley cars still in public use in LA.
When two bodies are found one morning on the trolley Angels Flight, Bosch and his team are called in.
Harry Bosch and his partners are called to handle a special assignment – the murder of a lawyer in downtown Los Angeles.
This lawyer had built a career out of suing the LAPD, and he had his biggest case set to start in two days.
Bosch and his team must deal with the politics of the LAPD and a town set to riot depending on the results of the investigation while looking for the truth.
Can they balance it all?This is another engrossing mystery from Michael Connelly.
There were still plenty of twists that surprised me, and I found the book completely engrossing.
He gives this answer in a book that teeters very close to the edge of confirming all of the prejudices that it wants to deny.Basic plot: an African American lawyer who's famous for taking up citizen civil rights cases against the L.A.P.D. is found murdered, and Hollywood's misanthropic Detective Harry Bosch is charged with finding out who did it -- because the usual detectives who'd investigate were all about to face the lawyer's wrath in a court case.
Angels Flight answers all those questions, and more.
Harry and Eleanor love each other, but she seems to feel the lack of something indeterminate, and he had hoped, when they married, that he could provide the je ne sais pas.
If only Harry could come to the realization that no one can do that, that Eleanor must find her own spark.
Eleanor's a fool.Harry Bosch is a curious combination of hard boiled and sensitive.
He is his own harshest critic, and his Los Angeles is anything but the city of dreams.
In Angels Flight, he is pushed to the limit.
Engaging all the way through.STORY BRIEF:Elias is a black attorney who is famous for winning lawsuits against the Los Angeles Police Dept.
Bosch investigates mysteries concerning the trial that Elias was preparing for.
Lindel investigates police officers.REVIEWER’S OPINION:This is book 6 in the series.
I never thought I would enjoy a police procedural crime solving mystery the way I’m enjoying these.
They were a phone book, an answering machine recording, a wallet, and a watch.There were two things I wish the author would have answered more clearly.
This series is in the must read category for anyone that enjoys shows like Law & Order, NCIS, Bones, Criminal Minds, Without a Trace, Body of Proof, etc.The only criticism to offer - and it's VERY slight - is that a couple of the books start out a bit slow.
That said, the pace picks up very quickly and none of them take long reaching the "can't set it down" engagement level!Partial Spoilers BelowThe comments below may give away some information about this and an earlier book.-- Harry's character development.
The police have never liked Attorney Howard Elias who was constantly bringing cases against the Department.
He knows residents of the city may riot if the killer of the African American lawyer turns out to be a cop.
As Harry, Kiz, and Edgar investigate, they go up against police bureaucrats who don't want this murder solved, and racial tension in the city of Angels.
He also gets involved in Howard Elias' latest civil rights case against the Department so we have two mysteries in this book.
There are a lot of twists and turns in this story.
I'm incredibly disappointed that they changed the narrator! He's not nearly as good. I did like the story, though. This series continues to make me happy :)
It got bogged down in this and I'd sigh when I'd pick it up to read another fifty or so pages...Harry's put in charge of an investigation into the death of Howard Elias, a prominent, controversial, black lawyer who's 'raison d'etre' is defending young black men charged with a crime - any crime - in order to sue the police department for illegal arrest, or search and seizure violations, or tampering with a criminal investigation, etc.
Harry is also dealing with his own personal problems, and the shifting, twisting loyalties to an old partner, his new colleagues, his superiors - ain't it always the way!
This is a book that just grabs you by the throat and drags you along.
They are quickly joined by several of his former nemesis, IAD & the FBI, because the attoney was about to go to trial against the LAPD.A year ago the step daughter of the LA Car Czar was abducted and murdered and an ex con was charged and tortured by the LAPD, in his subsequent trial he was acquitted and has filed a civil suit against the police and the city.
As Harry and his team investigate they uncover lots of secrets
His latest case, about to go to court, involves the alleged torture and wrongful arrest of an admittedly low-level criminal for abduction, rape and murder of Stacey Kincaid, the daughter of a wealthy and powerful southern California car dealer czar.[return][return]Because the murder of the black lawyer is so high-profile, the FBI is soon called into the case to help.
Harry s relationship troubles are, quite frankly, not that interesting.[return][return]Still, the book is yet another excellent addition to the series, which is one I want to continue to read.
Just what you'd come to expect from Michael Connelly--intelligent detection, an insistence on the part of his hero on the facts leading where they will, plausible plots.
The detective, Harry Bosch, is, alas, human, and the reader gets to see and sadly realize how certain bad turns might, repeat might, have been prevented had the investigator, already brilliant, had he been even more smart, more aware.
Looking back, the reader is allowed to see, to imagine, how things might have been improved.
That exposure of very human elements, part of what makes his books so good.
Wow! This is one multi-layered crime story that has many unbelievable twists and turns with Detective Harry Bosch leading his team to unravel the mystery. Having to deal with "politics", L.A. riots and an unstable marriage while hunting for a killer makes for an entertaining and fast paced read; AND what an ending!Have had this novel for quite a while and am so glad I finally decided to read it. Highly recommend!
Angels Flight by Michael Connelly is the 6th book in the Harry Bosch series. Civil rights lawyer Howard Elias is found murdered and Harry's team is assigned the case. Top of the list of suspects are his fellow police officers, who had been targeted multiple times by the lawyer. Another terrific book which keeps you captivated to the end. Just when you think it has been solved, something points you in another direction. Each book keeps getting better and better.
I adore the writings of Michael Connelly and his depiction of life, its hardships and cruelties through the eyes of one honest and incorruptible policeman the great antihero Harry Bosch.
He didn't know if he'd had his yet- it wasn't the kind of thing you knew and understood until you looked back over your life as an old man."...."It's about hope, Detective she continued.
If this had been an unknown author, I am sure I would have given up on it.I got to like the character of Harry Bosch and admired his staying power and his fierce loyalty to his friends.
It began gripping me in the second half of the book - with the issues of race riots, corrupt police and betrayal well presented and all becoming more and more tense as the story progressed.
Bravo to Harry Bosch for saving the day and the case and this certainly won't be my last Michael Connelly book.
