https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91201.Doctors
There are no outlandish plot twists or soap opera dramas - just multi-dimensional characters trying to get through life.Doctors focuses mainly on Barney Livingston and Laura Castellano, Brooklyn neighbors who both get in to Harvard Med School.
It also reveals why each of them want to go to medical school and become doctors.Once they are at medical school, the book begins to follow their lives as well as the lives of several classmates.
They complete medical school, complete residencies in their chosen specialties, and deal with all of the trials and tribulations of life.Segal is a wonderful author and this was a great read.

This is the year that I am being buried in all the damn paperworks(and I don't know if this is true for other medschools).And they say the sleepless nights aren't about to end until you retire from being a physician."For the first time Laura understood why it was said that to be a doctor - or at least to survive as one - you have to build a fortress around your feelings to withstand all the assaults of emotional involvement.
A very well written book, i think one of the rare books that i read in one go.
Based on the life of Barney Livingston and Laura Castellano (best of friends).
The book is mainly based on their journey through school, medical college and their respective fields.
The ups and downs, the rise and fall, the realisations they have.
It takes many years for them to realise that what they have is more than friendship.
Laura relies on barney and he inturn does not let her be deprecative of herself.
Both go through various disappointing relations, realising at the end the true relation.
Berlatar di masa2 Amerika sedang tertatih-tatih---setelah depresi ekonomi, perang dunia perang saudara---dua anak ini bercita2 ingin menjadi dokter, salah satu pekerjaan paling bergengsi saat itu bahkan hingga kini.
Di lain pihak, Laura berambisi menjadi dokter karena dia punya masalah yang lebih rumit.
Tinggallah Laura yang "tetap berakal sehat", dan menemukan pelarian dg cara belajar keras menjadi dokter.Dendam-dendam masa lalu inilah yang membuat kedua tetangga itu mati-matian rela melakukan apa saja agar bisa masuk sekolah kedokteran.
Mukjizat yang menghantarkannya untuk tetap bisa mendaftar pada HMS namun dengan bayaran yang sangat mahal, dan kelak akan terus menghantui hidupnya.Perjuangan Laura pun tak bisa dibilang gampang.
Love every sentence in it. An extremely well-written story which, as a medical student, I could completely relate - with the characters, the trials and tribulations one face through med school life and the weird and nice ones we get as classmates. It also talks about the dog-eat-dog world out there waiting as soon as one shall begin practicing. For a non medical reader, you'll relish the story and find newfound respect for doctors. For the ones already in the healing profession, its an eye-opener!Superbe work!
Gives a good peek into what happens in a medical school and how much labour is required to be a doctor. It is also a very emotional and romantic story. I liked it immensely. Hope u will too.
The reasons for my reluctance remained: namely the cliche nature of Erich Segal's characters.
I have also read "The Class" and there are similarities as to how he develops his characters in both these books: the gorgeous lead female with brains, the class nerd, the handsome jock, the overachievers, the boy next door, the eventual romance that takes place.
Although I do have my qualms with the unrealistic perfection of Segal's characters, I would recommend "Doctors" for all graduate students of any discipline to understand that with the glamour and pride that comes with a profession, also comes responsibility and sacrifices which must be made.
One thing we need to understand that doctors are also human beings and bear the pressures of life and long duty hours which makes their jobs more challenging but seeing the passion for their profession is really remarkable.
How may emotions they pass through when they see some of the impatient patients and have to go through not successful or gone cases.
All these emotioned are expressed in this book.
Along with this its also love story, romance, friendship and various ups and downs of human life and emotions.
In parallel, it depicts the challenge of medicine stream with the main story theme focused on doctors.
This reminds me of the incidence when one of my classmates fainted during my 12th science grade biology lab session ..The teacher was disecting a rat and the poor girl looking at the artiries and the strong smell just fainted..Any way coming back to the novel I would like to say it's a superb novel depecting the emotional side of Doctors while treating a very sick patient..How they make themselves strong in knowing pretty well that some of the patients they treat have cancers and other acute illness and no cure is possible as yet...
Reading books set in medical schools always intrigue me and doctors is all about HMS life AND it is written by Erich Segal so that means....I TOTALLY LOVED THE BOOK.But despite my prejudices,It gives an almost realistic view of a doctor's life.
Sweeping. Excellent. See, finally they put someone with a lot of soul in a house that's far from white.
True, while it's not set in some vast fantastic middle earth or even in the romantic South of the 1864 civil war, it spans decades and thoroughly depicts the lives of men and women in the medical field and reveals every dark aspect about it.I think it's quite accurate overall when it comes to portrayal of the characters' lives: through admission interviews, where you must find a way to thoroughly impress your interviewer, sometime spending a horrible amount of time or money engaging in activities that might do just that (volunteering in hospitals, getting some hands on experience on research if you're lucky)- all of which, during your precious schoolyear (of high school!) or summer vacation; med school, and its tedious classes in the labs, exhausting examinations; getting an few years long internship; landing a great job and going on to treat patients and later on, maybe even advancing into research.
They had always been brothers. But that summer they became friends I love Erich Segal and thereby this review is probably (read: definitely) biased. Doctors is one of those books that you not just read over a period, but you crawl into and live in between the pages. Like all of Segal's books, this one revolves around Harvard - It's medical school to be precise - and the class of '62. This tells the story of the kind, hopeful kids that came in and the brilliant but neurotic doctors that walked o
Doctors is one of those books that you not just read over a period, but you crawl into and live in between the pages.
Like all of Segal's books, this one revolves around Harvard - It's medical school to be precise - and the class of '62.
In this book, Segal mentions the reasons the characters decide to become doctors.He has done justice to the characters, he hasn't written them for the sake of writing a book.
one can learn about dialogues, scenes, character development and plot development from this book.I learnt that one does not have to be a doctor to write a good story about doctors.
however I might be able to say this because I'm not a doctor but I loved the book- the mix of fact and fiction is done well in this.his research and hardwork has paid off I feel.I had heard a lot about Segal's book 'love story' and it was a concious decision to not succumb to the hype.
The absolutely final update:There's a great deal I could say about the politics of this book, most of it grim, so I'll skip a treatise on the profound value of human life.I saw a quote recently, that "messages are for postcards," but Segal apparently never got that memo.
I think he, like a lot of German heritage Europeans and Americans who love euthanasia, was a dedicated athlete, a "doer", who saw anything less than biomechanical freedom as life limiting, often unacceptably, even permanently so.Also, the description of Harvard Medical school appears to peter out with their graduation after 1/3 of the book, leaving us with Segal's hamfisted treatise on euthanasia.Just as we finally arrived on the first day of biochemistry for Harvard medical students, my mind made such a mix of unpleasant connections that strangers at great distance in the coffee shop become convinced that my stillness signalled some Einsteinian insight.Not quite.
С тази книга в ръце човек попада в света на няколко студенти по медицина, изживява заедно с тях цялото им следване, изборът им на направление в медицината и ранните стъпки в кариерата им.
И общо взето дотук са хубавите неща, които мога да кажа за книгата.
Твърде много клиширани идеи.
Авторът е разгледал повърхностно твърде много морални дилеми - евтаназията, расовите борби, геноцидът срещу евреите, без да казва нещо ново, нито пък оригинално по темите.
Но без качества, необходими, за да се превърне в истинска литература.
Поне аз така почувствах книгата.
И ми се причете нещо наистина качествено, след като я завърших.
I read this book in 2 days and I want to read it again and again...I also enjoyed the idea that 2 best friends to became lovers. It's a motivational book for those who want a med career, like me, and I recommend it for everyone. My favorite book so far.
"There are thousands of diseases in the world, but Medical Science only has an empirical cure for twenty-six of them. The rest is... guesswork."Loved reading this book! A definite must read for those interested in medicine.
Novels, like 'Doctors', make me enjoy reading this type of book. Not only is this well written, but it also gave me an insight into the world of the Doctor, and the training they must endure to become qualified.
Shockingly read and transformed like a real, massive epic.I mean, truly, the genuine, painstakingly crafted character development of these four doctors.
It's a real testament to Segal's masterful storytelling - how he can easily maneuver us from Laura and Barney's early history to Seth's internal conflicts with euthanasia to wartime scenes.
I honestly felt smarter, gurls.Ugh. Laura Castellano is just an amazing character with her ambitious outlook, yet incredibly broken family and messy love life, and then there's Barney who is so fucking iconic.
I was a fucking mess.This honestly read like a super modern book, I kind of can't believe this was written in the '80s.
Прекрасна книга , стога да имах време бих я изгълтала за няколко дни .Не ме остави да я остави без да разбера какво става особено накрая .
They include Bennett Landsmann, a Rhodes Scholar and the black son adopted into a wealthy Jewish family; Hank Bennett who was once a Jesuit and is the most innocent and well intentioned of the group; Grete Anderson a beautiful girl who was once a beauty queen and two other top students named Peter Wyman and Seth Lazarus, the genius in the class who becomes the most controversial figure in the book.The characters are all stressed by their grueling education and are soon physically and mentally overwhelmed by its demands.
Hanya saja tahun-tahun keemasan dalam hidup mereka harus mereka relakan untuk tersia-sia di ruang pendidikan, masa-masa belajar dan juga saat magang.
Dari masa kanak-kanak dua orang teman sepermainan yang menetapkan diri untuk menjadi seorang dokter, perjuangan teman-teman seangkatan mereka yang naik-turun, persaingan antar kolega, semuanya diceritakan secara jelas dari kedua sudut pandang Barney dan Laura.
:)Tidak akan menceritakan lebih jauh tentang tokoh-tokoh di dalam buku ini, tetapi selain Laura dan Barney, aku memberikan simpati khusus kepada Bennet dan juga Seth (baru kuberikan hampir di bagian akhir buku).
Perjuangan profesi dokter sungguh berat dan sangat melelahkan, aku salut untuk kalian semua.
In alot of ways this is my favorite books by Segal.
My only complaint about it is that the multiple charecters aren't balanced, (where as in Prizes they were more balanced out.) It concerns 4 people directly, Barney,(who is the lead/catalyst for the story.)Laura,Bennet and Seth.Seth's charecter is the one left out in the cold, so to speak, but also one who has the most to lose: his integrety.Other then that though.
this book is classic Segal, laughter,sorrow, and at times so heartrending that you can't stop the tears rolling down your face.I gave it a 5 star despite my misgivings because of the lead charecter, Barney.
this is Almost Eriich Segal 's nonfiction based on his Harverd Medical School resident experiance and get marry with his girlfriend who went go through elementary sweet hart.it was so interesting about how mysterical about medical treeatments since no human is nothing compare to LORD cure for ileness , sickness and desease, even in distress.
according to Erich Herverd Medical school graduate famous Love Story author many unknown things to medical fields in Human being.
He is very hummble and very truth writer.I would like to read all his works.
I red a Doctors about 20 years ago and gave to real a MD DR.
Story about a bunch of doctors who meet in medical school and where their lives take them. Two of them are best friends from a very young age and their relationship over three decades. With dramatic twists and life choices, it all comes to a point where the best friends have to make choices involving their family. Old friends come to picture and ending is how the tone of the story is - happy verging on bittersweet.
This is one of my favorite books of all time. So much of what I know about the medical profession came from this book, or research this book spurred me to do.I read it for the first time at age 13 and have probably read it at least 20 times since. It is always on my list of "desert island' books. To me it's the best book Segal ever wrote and one that I will be reading again and again for the rest of my life.
An amazing book that highlighted the ups and downs on the journey to becoming a doctor. What I liked most about the book was that it covered not just what you'd expect (ex. going to classes, dissecting cadavers, etc.) but also the ethical and social justice issues that existed not only at that time, but also today.
Dibaca waktu awal2 kuliah, pas lagi belajar anatomi di bab neuroanatomi.Akan selamanya berterima kasih sama ini buku, karena langsung bisa hapal 12 nervus cranialis berkat "Oh oh oh to touch and feels girls vagina, ah heaven". Dan belum lupa ampe sekarang X)Tapi dari segi cerita ini, ini dua orang kenapa lamaaaaa bener nyadar sukanya?Nyindir gw? Hah??? Hah???? *apa coba*
