https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243298.The_Shining_Ones

It took a while for me to get back in the swing of Eddings after the dystopian sci-fi I've been reading lately but it picked up toward the end. At one point I mentioned my trouble to my husband and he replied "But you've been laughing out loud constantly!" and that is the main charm of Eddings for me, the humor, which is very present in this volume.
The format is getting old at this point - snarky characters who are all too self-satisfied and smug for their own good, powerful beings who act like petulant children, and a plot that has holes in it a truck could drive through if you examine it too closely.The one intriguing part of this novel was seeing the Bhelliom had an awareness, although I could have done without the archaic language used by the gem.The female characters are really troublesome.
Yes, they're shown to be as capable and clever as the men (very good) but they all act as though men are some kind of bug that needs to be squished (bad).
I'm finally nearing the end of Sparhawk's adventures (one more book to go) and I find that I'm almost reluctant to begin reading "The Hidden City".
But I think that is the plight of anyone who enjoys reading.There was much character growth to be had in "The Shining Ones", especially concerning Sephrenia.
I also enjoyed the introduction of a new race to the books and thought that Eddings was masterful, as always, in relaying certain nuances about these new people.
(view spoiler)[ Another thing I really enjoyed reading was Sparhawk's new respect for Bhelliom once he realised that it really does have its own personality.
Personal ResponseI liked The Shining Ones because there are more magical creatures than in the first book, and there is more action.
Plot SummaryThis book begins with Sparhawk venturing to retrieve the Bhelliom, a magical force capable of destroying the world as well as taking down their enemy.
On their trip back to Tamul after retrieving the Bhelliom, they encounter the magical beings of nightmares called the Shining Ones.
But after Emperor Sarabian and Queen Ehlana overthrow Sarabian's corrupt government, Sephrenia finds out that Zalasta has been feeding her lies about the Shining Ones, and wishes to kill her sister, the Goddess Aphrael.
I enjoyed this story but I didn't think it was mind blowing or the best fantasy book I'd ever read. I find it interesting that these books are written in quite a simple and easy manner but yet the content is more on the heavy side than what the writing suggests. It's an interesting series and I am keen to see how it ends.
Things finally start to get going in the Shining Ones, but it's still the weakest book of the Tamuli trilogy.
Most of this is down to several things previously considered unalterable in the Sparhawk-verse suddenly changing.
That last one is a huge plot point and it comes out of nowhere given the people she's prejudiced against aren't introduced until this far in the story.
Still, the plot rattles along at a good pace, the gang members left behind in the Elene Castle while Sparhawk goes after Bhellion are finally given some interesting stuff to do, and it all gets a lot more fun once the Troll Gods arrive.
I decided to read this book because i have read several other David Eddings books and have enjoyed all of the m so i decided to read this one.This book completes the "Fantasy" category on the bingo board.I liked this book because of the diversity of its characters, such as the main character , Sparhawk, an old and grumpy Church Knight.There was nothing I disliked about this book.I would recommend this book to any avid fantasy readers as it is one of the best fantasy books I have come across.
Hoci mám Eddingsa ako oddychovku rada, zostávam pri troch hviezdach. Je to zaručená kvalitka, autor vie rozvinúť príbeh, mal dostatok nápadov, hrdinov (aj koncept) už mal overený a tak je to v podstate čítanie na istotu.
As much as I love this series, I just have to say: at one point there is a string of exposition that lasts forty pages. FORTY PAGES. yeargh.
Having discovered that Cyrgon is behind all these events, Sparhawk sets out to retrieve Bhelliom.
Sephrenia is against this at first, thinking the Delphae were behind her family's murder.
It turns out Zalasta was behind everything--from the death of Sephrenia's family (he was after Aphrael, incarnate as her sister) to all the events in Elenium.
Zalasta wants Bhelliom to kill Aphrael so he can have Sephrenia.The Troll-Gods are released to get the trolls away from Cyrgon and at the end, Ehlana and Alean are kidnapped by Krager for exchange with Bhelliom.
This book continues the story of Sparhawk and his quest to save his queen. It continues with more comedic moments than the first book and I found it thoroughly enjoyable. I did like the playfulness of the younger god, she often being the centre of those comedy moments. Having so enjoyed volume 1 followed by this second volume, I have high hopes for the third of this trilogy. Highly recommended.
I know that David Eddings books are very much a repeated formula from series to series but that does not take away from my enjoyment of them. I first read his books many years ago when I chose them because they were the longest books I could find. I enjoy his characters and the plot and I find that in general they stand up to the test of time as long as you can enjoy the raging sexism.
I have always been a fan of David Eddings. I read the Belgariad and the next series in High School. I also read the beginning of Sparhawk's journey then as well. Decided to reread all of it. I absolutely love his books.
I don't know that I can say anything without spoiling the story. I simple cannot say enough about the detail that the Eddings take with these books.
Full review coming soon.
The book starts out strong with Sparhawk and his huge crew of mounted knights riding through unfamiliar territory in search of an enemy needing elimination.
Not wanting to wander around lost on enemy territory, Sparhawk sees some value in this arrangement but his goddesses' Apharel and Sephrenia aren't having it!
Meh!" This petulant attitude goes on and on, chapter after chapter for about 60% of the book and its starts to read like a pathetic, high-school drama of immature females.
This book reads nothing like David's other novels as the plot is weighed heavily on the emotional turmoil of the female goddesses, and yet this book still does a disservice to the feminist agenda!
whose touch is all too real.### From Publishers WeeklySir Sparhawk and his wife, Queen Ehlana of Elenia, encounter ever more sinister plots in the second book of The Tamuli , following Domes of Fire , as they try to help the emperor of Tamuli take a firm grasp of the government.
Unrest spreads throughout Tamuli, with indications of sorcery and meddling by various gods, prompting the goddess Aphrael, reincarnated as the royal couple's young daughter Danae, to retrieve the powerful sapphire-rose jewel Bhelliom, hidden a few years earlier after being used to destroy the evil god Azash.
Originally posted on Once Upon a Bookcase.The Shining Ones, the second book in The Tamuli, continues the story awesome story set in the Tamul Empire on the other side of the world, and things are getting more interesting!After the failed coup on the palace, Sparhawk and his friends now know it was an attempt to discover their resources and their weaknesses.
Just when you think you know which way is up, something else comes along to confuse the issue - bringing danger along with it.While Sparhawk is away, this book jumps back and forth between him and his companions to Ehlana, Sarabian and the people with them.
Quite possibly the perfect fantasy novel. A number of well-time, stunning reveals. Some of the characters effortlessly move into "glorious prose" without its feeling forced.
Apparently anyone doing anything someone is slightly inconvenienced by is showing a real lack of maturity in this world.
To which I can only reply "Oh grow up yourselves!"We get a lot of Stragen in this book & Caaladore as well.
But Caalador's use of dialect is really annoying & gets old even faster than 'be nice' does.
And 25 years on the treatment of sexual activity in this book really bothers me far more than it did back in the day.Sparhawk pretty much ordering Berit to "lie back and think of Elenia" was incredibly offensive.
It took me a long time to read this one - just over four months.
Some of that is simply that I've been really busy and haven't had a lot of time to devote to reading.
my favorite characters were not seen as much in this book.
For people who aren't quite such fans of Talen and Tynian, it will be a much more enjoyable read than it was for me.
frustrated at the ending of the book.
Without spoiling the book for someone who hasn't read it: it's a little contrived that a certain someone leaves just before the final scene.
The Shining Ones is book 2 of The Tamuli series.
So far this is the best book of the series.
The book ends with a cliff hanger which makes you want to read the third book to find out what happens.
On their journey they encounter the mythical Shining Ones whom are god-like glowing beings that were given a curse by their own God Edaemus.
The Shining Ones and Sparhawk's enemies are both interested in what Sparhawk can do for them with the magical powers of Bhelliom and both try to make deals with him in order to have possession of the blue stone.
I generally like lots of dialogue in books.
Almost the whole book is dialogue.
And what's funny is that it's in the non-talking parts that there's some actual intrigue and creativity - the fantastical side of things has a chance to shine - which is what I really enjoyed about the Belgariad - ie exploring a world with all sorts of curious things in it.
There's some of that in this book but I want more.Back to that dialogue.
We're going to win, and there's nothing in the world that can stop us.
A couple of characters I didn't like from the Elenium series made their way into this series and are still hanging around.This book, like the other Eddings books I've read, seems to be as much about character relationships (personal, political, racial) as the adventure.
If the story of the characters appeals as much as the adventures they're on - pick it up.A drawback, for me anyway, is plans going off without a hitch.
I'm definitely a reader who likes to see how characters are going to get out of a particularly tricky situation.
The upside is that there were actually things in this book that I had forgotten.
The down side is that I forgot how tedious and boring it is to read about troop movements.
Really tedious.
I had also forgot just how much there was of military maneuvering.
It was annoying enough that it really brought down my enjoyment of the book.
Also, it turns out there are all sorts of things Sparhawk 'could' have been doing with that chuck of crystal.
I enjoyed this much more than the first book of the trilogy, as his banter between characters lessened and action increased.
The one stick I still have with it, is that he lays out all of his plans for each confrontation beforehand, and then it goes off without a hitch.
This is the case most of the time.
I feel like there is rarely a question about who will win.
This makes it pleasant to read but less exciting.
Cyrgon is explained as always being outdated and stupid, which cheapens him as an enemy.
Though I haven't read the third book yet, so we will see!
The second book of the Tamuli is better than the first, which was mainly political manoeuvring.
There is still plenty of that to be had here but with the band of adventurers having split into groups to pursue various disparate enemies/allies which offers more action and excitement.
The series is the same as the Belgariad/Mallorion and while still worth a read the format is getting over used.
The wit and batter which is charming to begin with also reached the end of it’s welcome by the end of the series (which with the Belgarion books totals 18).
I always fall into this trap...reading about a set of characters for a number of books for my interest to begin to dwindle a little.
The main focus seems to be entirely the peace-making between two enemies, the revelation of the criminal mastermind and then the final two pages being used to set up the drama for the next book, which I am REALLY looking forward to.
Eddings' writing has always been able to charm me, and though this book was slower, it is entirely necessary and still has the favourite quirks appreciated by all Eddings readers.
As much as I love all of the books by the Eddings couple, I have to admit this one is a bit of a mess.
The storyline is all over the place and the plotting is incredibly raise your eyebrow ok I kind of see what you're trying to get at but not really.
That said, the characters in these novels are always the key.
I think I could read entire novels of just little snippets of their lives (which in a way is what this series is).
I'd actually forgotten about the conclusion to the novel!
So I'm looking forward to re-reading the last novel again lol.
