https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/977289.Murder_on_the_Blackboard
3.5*This 3rd entry in the Golden Age mystery series featuring Hildegarde Withers wasn't quite as much fun as the first book. I think that was due to the fact that (view spoiler)[Inspector Piper spends most of the book in the hospital and so is limited in his interactions with Miss Withers. I love the way these two spar! (hide spoiler)] Still, there was plenty to enjoy and I look forward to reading more of these.
As she did in the first two books in this series — The Penguin Pool Murder and Murder on Wheels — the formidable Miss Withers arrives at the truth while the police stumble and arrest the wrong person.
Murder on the Blackboard is the best one yet!Anise Halloran, the pretty young music teacher at Jefferson School, gets murdered in a grisly way while Miss Withers is in the very building!
Sergeant Taylor, Piper's replacement, won't pay Miss Withers any mind, but you can be sure the intrepid middle-aged schoolteacher teaches the New York police force — and a certain visiting Viennese “psycho-criminal expert” — a lesson in crime!
This is the second book I've read in this series, and I don't believe I'll try any more.
These books feel old0-fashioned, but in a negative way.
The characters are flat, they never feel like real people.
The cops are big, dumb and happy to beat confessions out of people rather than look for clues.
The heroine is a blank, and as a detective she seems to operate solely by "feel", with no reason for believing someone's innocence and no plan to guide her.
I don't care about the dead people, and the solutions to the mystery are crazily convoluted and unbelievable.
In Murder on the Blackboard (1932) Stuart Palmer's features schoolteacher Hildegarde Withers and police inspector Oscar Piper for the third time.As one of the characters jokes, "Schoolteachers rush in where detectives fear to tread, or something." Murder on the Blackboard abounds with humor as well as the clues (and red herrings) necessary for a satisfactory mystery novel.Palmer's sense of humor is well-illustrated by these two quotes:"Then [Miss Withers, who was reading the letters section of the newspaper,] returned to Irate Citizen, who was openly in favor of legible house numbers and against dry-sweeping." "Anderson was letting the words tumble forth, like a pent-up torrent.
'I play the stock market, I lose.
I play the Mexican lottery, I lose.
I play the Chinese lottery, I lose, again and again.
Always I lose.'"I found my International Polygonics reissue of Murder on the Blackboard for only 75 cents plus postage.
I was introduced to the Miss Hildegard Withers series (and others by Stuart Palmer) many years ago by my grandmother. They are quite humorous mysteries and several of them were made into movies (old black and white movies). They've started showing up as e-books and when they are on sale, I've been purchasing and re-reading them. They are usually good for a laugh or two.
Some of them appreciate her assistance, and others, of course, do not.Some of the language is a bit archaic, but is perfect for the time in which the story is set.
The prose of this book led me to feel as if I were reading the script from an old black and white movie, and considering the setting, if that was the intent of the author, he succeeded beautifully.The story opens as Miss Withers is keeping a young boy after school to write sentences on the blackboard as his punishment for misbehaving.
During the Depression, only single women were teachers.
The feeling was that single women needed to support themselves while married women could live on their husband's salary.
Always curious, Miss Withers goes to the cloak room to see if the young woman was ill.
No, she's not ill, she's dead!With her friend, detective Piper, she sets out to solve the crime.
Detective Piper ends up in the hospital and with the help of some of his staff and a psychological crime specialist, solves the mystery.
Hildegard Withers has kept one of her more rambunctious students after school for gossiping during class about two of the school’s young teachers.
She decides to investigate and finds the unfortunate young teacher murdered.
Miss Withers sends her student to call Inspector Piper, who promptly arrives to investigate.
Thus, Hildegard Withers has to investigate the crime herself (with the help of one of the young Sergeants on Piper’s team).
It’s another entertaining, fast-paced romp through New York police bureaucracy, life in America during Prohibition, and the lives of teachers trying to make ends meet by sharing apartments with other underpaid educators.
IBook-$1.99-Bookbub. 31/2 stars I recommend all these Miss Withers mysteries
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
The murder of a young teacher in the school building after hours has Miss Withers joining with the police force to solve the crime.This book took place in 1932 and was probably written in the same.
I learned some interesting stuff:1) It was acceptable to smoke cigars while hospitalized2) Although unmarried woman were teachers, it was not uncommon for them to be forced to leave their jobs once they married.
It was expected of them to give up their jobs to the other single women who needed the money to survive on their only salary3) The book mentioned Boss Tweed.
miss withers is a school teacher who has investigated a couple of murders in the past. one afternoon she finds a colleague murdered on school premises....What does she do? call the police and investigate of course but the body temporarily disappears then is found burnt in the furnace...who killed her and why?
Good book once you realize that it is somewhat dated you can get into it and enjoy it. Being a teacher it was fun to see a murder in a school setting. But I can think of some other folks who were more deserving.
NB: The MysteriousPress re-release of this places it as #2 in the series, but it is meant to be #3, and contains several references to events that took place in Murder on Wheels
First book in series, battle axe school teacher, solves crime ...kinda cute. Second book ...as my daughter would have put it while getting through her formative years ..."Pretty lame Dad. I can't believe you actually read that."
Love the main character in this series. A fun read. For those of you that can't find a copy, Rue Morgue Press just released a paperback.
Great Hiildegarde Withers fun. I have been reading Mr. Palmer's stories since I was a child and they are an enduringly captivating mix of a good amount of comedy with murder.
Very slow goingI'd have give this book only 1 star. After chapter 4 I lost all interest. The reading level is simply 4 _ 5th grade level. Not worth the time to finish.
3.5 stars. A fun read, as another reviewer stated. The goings on are rather unbelievable even for the genre, but this is really a comedy-mystery, so it's forgivable.
I love this series. Although some of the slang may be dated that's Ok with me. After all it was written in th early 30's. The story is a fun read and worth giving it a try.
#2 in the series and great! read by Julie McKay
This was a very exciting book! Love it!
