https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/334583.The_Puppy_Who_Wanted_a_Boy
Probably the sweetest puppy-needs-a-home story on the entire planet.
One of my favorite childhood books <3
This was my absolute favorite book as a child. For a young children's book, there is definitely some raw emotion packed into this little gem. Being such a big animal lover my whole life, especially dogs, this one stole my heart!
The moral of this book is to never give up, be polite (even if other aren't back), have courage, learn from experiences, and be persistent in seeking until you get what you want.
The little puppy wanted a boy.
He had courage to ask other dogs politely if they would give their boy to him.
Although all the dogs he asked did not answer him politely back, he learned from each experience (keep his distance for example).
In the end, the tired and persistent puppy finds a boy and a home full of boys!
Okay I know that I am not a boy but if this puppy wanted to adopt me I would be more than willing.
We could go on walks, play ball, cuddle and everything else that you can imagine for such a cute scruffy face like this one.
The story is truly a heart-twister.
It will have you up and down the emotional roller coaster while keeping this pup to keep looking for his forever home.
And then for the home's director to be nice enough to allow him in that just ends the cake.
Truly a timeless classic and a great Christmas story as well!
I read this around Christmas time last year so I can't remember it all that well. I remember the premise of the story which was pretty darn cute. I do remember it being a little too long for a bedtime story though. This may have only been my daughters age though so I'm not sure. I think I'd recommend it for older toddlers based on my memory of the length. It's definitely a cute story though!
This was one of my favorite stories as a child. As an adult, I still deeply enjoyed reading it with my younger brothers. A great story of a dog in search of someone to call his own. It shows how pets need us and choose us much like we need and choose them.
Petey the puppy just wanted a boy for Christmas.
So he set out to see if any other puppies wanted to give their boys up to Petey.
Of course none of them wanted too and finally Petey came across a little boy sitting on the front porch of his home.
Petey finally had a boy he always wanted.
Children have the perspective of wanting a puppy when they are little and I think it's so interesting that this story gives kids the ability to see that urge through the puppy's eyes.
Kids get to see that puppies really want loving homes with sweet kids just as much as kids want a cute little puppy.
It is the sweet story of a puppy who longs to have a boy for Christmas.
When his mom is unable to find one for him, she suggests that perhaps he might find a dog who would give up his boy.
The puppy sets out to ask some other dogs if they will give up their boys.
I cannot over reccomend this heart warming tale of a dog who wants to give love.
It's great for parents and children, beginning readers, a classroom library, or even grown folk who want their hearts warmed.
Summary:It was the night before Christmas and a young puppy named Petey really wanted a boy to belong to.
His mom who was a dog tried searching for a boy but could not find one.
So, she suggested to go out and ask another dog if they would give away their boy.
Eventually, Petey found a “home for boys,” and a little boy sitting outside.
Then he got to go inside and ended up getting fifty boys for Christmas!
Puppies love boys just like the boys love puppies.
2. The more the merrier, more boys=more love!3.
If you really want something, make it happen!
The text is copyright 1958. The illustrations are from 1985. This is a Weekly Reader book. A nice story about a puppy who wants a boy for Christmas. Being an enterprising young dog, he decides to find his boy on his own. This book shows it's age near the end, when the puppy ends up at an orphanage.
Love this book! No boys anywhere, that is all puppy wants for Christmas. He goes off to find one on his own. Asks other dogs if they want to give up their boy, but no one does. Then he finds a Boy's home. Now he has 50 boys!
This is an amazing story about a puppy that just wants a boy for Christmas. After struggling to find one, he found a Home For Boys shelter and is greeted very well by a little boy he shows him so much love. This book is heart warming and fantastic.
Petey, the puppy, only wanted one thing for Christmas, a boy. His mother told him that if he was good enough, he could have a boy. Petey went on a hunt to find a boy, but could not find the perfect one. Eventually Petey stumbled upon a home for boys and found fifty boys who took him in.
Sweet sweet puppy love story! A must to read each Christmas
Although we aren't supposed to use this word, the story is very cute. The puppy just wants a boy to have him! The pictures are endearing as well.
Lovable cute Christmas story
This has been my son's favorite book since early childhood. He's 26 and still occasionally brings it up. Worth reading over and over.
I love dogs and this book is so emotional. I wish i knew about this book when i was a kid.
Sweet book with a warm ending.
Grade/interest level: k-1nd gradeLexile level: 510LGenre: picture book, fictionMain Characters: Petey the dog and his momSetting: Petey’s house, outside in the winter, and an orphanagePOV: omniscientThis book is about a puppy name Petey who wants a boy for Christmas.
Inside the orphanage Petey was surrounded by a whole bunch of little boys to love him.
His Christmas wish had come true (times ten!).
Since it’s about wishes coming true, it could be used to discuss children’s hopes and wishes.
It could also be used to discuss orphanages and what it’s like to have a home.
I recommended it to all kids Spoilers below:Protagonist: PeteyAntagonist: the dogs who wouldn't give away their boyConflict: All Petey wanted for Christmas was a boy.
Setting: Christmas time Changes of the protagonist: In the beginning Petey was very confident that he would find a boy but throughout the book he began to lose hope.
Not only because I loved animals and it's main character was a cute little puppy, but because it a very motivating children's book.
Petey is determine to get a puppy for Christmas but his mom couldn't find one and no dogs would give their boy away, but he doesn't give up.
In the story, all a puppy wants for Christmas is a little boy.
In the story, the puppy resembles a little boy in a variety of ways.
He also went and searched for a boy by himself instead of waiting around for one to show up on his front steps and I think a determined little boy would do the same kind of thing in the given situation.The moral that I picked up from the book was that good things come to those who wait and are go-getters.
Petey has just about lost hope when he stumbles upon a Home for Boys—and a group of orphan children who very much would like a friend.
I liked that Petey ended up choosing a child at a charity home to be his friend—much in the way a person might choose a dog at an animal shelter.
So there’s the good message there about shelter adoption that could inspire some good discussions about pets and people without homes.
So while there’s a good message within, the story would have been more powerful if Petey, like his boy, had been without a home.
When the puppy tells his mom that he wants a boy for Christmas, she tells him to go see if he can find a dog who is willing to give up his boy.
But this seems like it would mean leaving his mom for good.
But it seems to be what both the puppy and the mom want.Offers a way to start a discussion about animals who don't have homes and people who don't have homes.
Could also be a good way to begin talking about how animals shouldn't be seen as mere gifts--how they are actually a living responsibility.
Would be a good read-aloud during Christmas time.
It is a story about a lonely puppy who wants to get a boy for Christmas.
A very special boy finds him and brings him to his home.
The puppy was given so much love, more than he could ever imagine.
It was such a special Christmas for both the boys and the puppy.
I could not imagine how sad and scary it would be to not have anyone, so when the two found each other it touched my heart and made me so happy.
It is a beautifully touching story that I would love to share with students and my children around the holiday season.
The Puppy Who Wanted a Boy is a heartwarming tale about a small little puppy named Petey, whose only wish for Christmas is to find a boy who will love him.
Disappointed by this news, Petey heads out to find a dog who is willing to give him their boy.
Petey runs up to the boy and quickly is taken inside to join not just the one boy, but all fifty boy who live in the home.
However, this book does have a cute story that children who love animals or children who have lived in group homes could very easily relate to and so I would be willing to have it in my classroom.
A personification about a puppy named Petey who wants a boy for Christmas.
He asks his mother, and she said she would do her best, but boys are hard to find at that time of year.
When his mother comes back boy-less, the pup decides he will go ask a dog if he can have their boy.
Asking students what they think Petey does after he finds his boy.
You could also use this book more for personification then others, because it makes the dogs seem more human than the humans themselves.
Summary: A puppy who wanted more than anything was a boy. His mother told him that there was a low supply of boys this year. So the puppy went out searching for a boy. He asked a handful of dogs if they would give their boy away and they all said no, but just when the puppy was losing hope, he found a home for boys.Age: 1st-3rd gradeUse: Independent readingGenre: Picture Book Text/Images: Images go along with the text fairly well, they're simple but well drawnTopic: hopeSocial Issues:
All Petey wants for Christmas is a boy. Petey's mother tries to appease him by offering a bunny, a bird, and even some goldfish - but only a boy will do. Petey then approaches other dogs asking them if they are willing to give up their boys. He finds the rest of the canine world none too friendly. Finally, Petey comes upon the Home for Boys - will he be able to find a boy there?A heartwarming tale showing how with persistence you may not get exactly what you want, but sometimes something even better.
