https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33288638-wait-for-it
As I said, I am not feeling the Christmas spirit today.
The WHAT being that I just didn't feel connection between Diana and Dallas that I felt between Van & Aiden and Sal & Kulti.
- BECAUSE I'm a trashy whore...Dallas' non-marriage felt like a super flimsy hurdle on their road to relationshipville, in my opinion.
As I said, it just felt a little flimsy to me.But whatevs.
I don't know if I was just expecting another Winnipeg, thus leaving this book feeling like less in comparison, or what.
I think her strengths are always found in her ability to write day to day scenes in her stories while building the excitement of the couple actually connecting.
Have no fear because Diana can’t figure out if he likes her or not but eventually the two do become friends and perhaps more?The story was simply a pleasure to read.
As only this author can deliver the slow burn does reap its reward for Diana and Dallas and oh how sweet it is!
I would love for them to get their own stories and hope the author has at least two more surprises up her sleeve!
4.5 stars!!!   “You can’t always wait for someone else to do the right thing when you can do it yourself.”   After finishing Wait for It, I cried a bit. Why you ask? This is the last Mariana Zapata book I had to read, and it made me sad. Her books are so fantastic, and I’ve always looked forward to having a new one to read or listen to. I guess thank goodness there are always re-reads! I’m sure I’ll be re-reading many in my future! Wait for It had so much I love in a book. It had Zapata’s signat
This is the last Mariana Zapata book I had to read, and it made me sad.
Her books are so fantastic, and I’ve always looked forward to having a new one to read or listen to.
I guess thank goodness there are always re-reads!
Wait for It had so much I love in a book.
I loved the connection Dallas and Diana had.
Diana was selfless and amazing and Dallas was such a stand-up guy.
Someone who loved you would do what’s best for you; they’d stand up for you and sacrifice.
I love Zapata’s writing so much and this book was another win!
5 stars!Review at Of Pens and Pages  You don't know what love was until someone was willing to give up what they loved the most for you."  Mariana Zapata does it again! Wait For It felt familiar yet entirely new and refreshing. This book had everything I loved in her books and more. So much more. It had vibrant characters, the most wonderful slow burn you could ask for, an entertaining and authentic voice, and familiar characters we've met and loved. If you'd ask me to describe the book in three
Diana Casillas is twenty nine, has a house to call her own, a job she loves most of the time, two boys under her care who owns her heart, and a dog.
If you've read MZ's other novels and found this heroine's familiar, it's because she's the best friend of Vanessa Mazur in The Wall of Winnipeg and Me. Out of all the MZ heroines, Diana is my favorite.
If I loved Diana and Vanessa's relationship in Winnie, I loved it even more in Wait for It. Even though they're separated by distance, they're still there for each other like sisters.
4 Finding Your Own Idiot Stars* * * *  Spoiler Free-Best Romance Semifinal Round-VOTE!!This book has everything a Zapata read usually has:Amazing Swoon Worthy Moments...Characters who jump off the page and you wish you knew them personally...Serious Life Lessons we all can relate to...An Extremely Slow Burn...And Heart...lots and lots of it.You will love Josh and Louie HARDCORE ❤❤❤ You will appreciate Diana and her philosophy of never lying to her boysYou will watch and wait for Diana to figure
4 Finding Your Own Idiot Stars* * * *  Spoiler Free-Best Romance Semifinal Round-VOTE!!This book has everything a Zapata read usually has:Amazing Swoon Worthy Moments...Characters who jump off the page and you wish you knew them personally...Serious Life Lessons we all can relate to...An Extremely Slow Burn...And Heart...lots and lots of it.You will love Josh and Louie HARDCORE ❤️❤️❤️ You will appreciate Diana and her philosophy of never lying to her boysYou will watch and wait for Diana to figure out DallasYou will get heart pains and flutters...and relearn the most important lesson you already know...Life is ShortTake the emotional risks to show those you love...
I loved how much this book was about daily family life and Diana raising the kids more then it was about romance.The slow burn, it's more glacial than slow in this book but I honestly didn't mind.
This book actually made me crave pop tarts and I don't even eat them!Dallas was a great hero, he was supportive and understanding and once he got to know Diana and her intentions he was good to her and her boys.
I couldn’t help but compare it to The Wall of Winnipeg And Me. I know that’s a big no-no, but what I was looking and hoping for in this book was the same explosive and palpable chemistry Aiden and Vanessa had.
This has the slow burn Mariana is known for.
But FOR ME, the story felt like it was dragging.
I was hoping for a slow burn romance and not a slow story.
While I wasn't too crazy on the plot (honestly there really wasn’t one) I did enjoy the characters.
It’s super slow moving story line just wasn’t something I really connected with.
There’s something about Mariana…I’m convinced that Mariana has a magic pen (I’m not going to say fingers because that just sounds crude) for writing such awesome stories.
Sure, I may have been in a wee bit of lust for his hot body, but like Diana, his personality didn’t make me feel hearts and flowers.Dallas has a few things on his plate at the moment.
I loved that Dallas doesn’t question his feelings, tries to do right by Diana and the boys and doesn't hesitate to share his feelings.
Dallas and Diana’s love story took its time but the wait was definitely worth it.
➦It's a slow burn romance that carries tons of character development so, if you're a fan of those, grab it and run!
While this book didn't quite top The Wall of Winnipeg for me, it will be a second favorite of mine from this author.➦The hero is a retired vet who coaches cute middle school kids and lives next door to the heroine.
➦The kids will melt your heart, I honestly lost count of how many times I teared up while reading this novel.
This is definitely a highly recommended book to read if you are looking for something that's not ...
I waited for it, I surely did.
And although it was long, it was simply beautiful, unexpectedly and completely beautiful.
I took my time with this book, after all it's fricken longer than most :-)) I'm not going to write a long review, as there are 1,000's out there already for this beauty however I need to say, if you can be patient, you HAVE to read this, you NEED to read this book.
I love when you get to a end of a book and you feel so complete.
I'm still swooning over Dallas, I'm sure I will be for quite some time💗💕💗
3.5 slow stars.While I enjoyed this one, I felt it dragged a little bit.
The storyline was very sweet and everything but I found it a little "humdrum" = My own life, at times, is a bit humdrum.
Same old ding dong every day.
start all over the next day.
So, when I read a book, I like to escape reality a bit.I really liked Diana.
But if you are looking for hot sex scenes peppered throughout the book ....
Talk about a slow build-up.I think the first book I read by this author, KULTI, sort of spoiled her for me.
The slow burn and fantastic character building added to the overall enjoyment of this book.Diana Casillas and her two nephews, which were entertaining and cute as buttons, moved into a new neighborhood and soon after met her hot, but grumpy neighbor across the street (view spoiler)[(not the one that was beaten up;-) (hide spoiler)].Dallas Walker, a bit mysterious, a body like a greek god, neighborhood grump, and kids baseball coach, kept his distance at the beginning.
He was going though a divorce and didn't need any other complications, especially in the form of one crazy neighbor with two kids.But sooner or later Diana and Dallas were thrown together on more than one occasion.
I immediately liked Diana when she was first introduced in The Wall of Winnipeg and Me but you see a whole new side of her in this book, she is more mature but still holds the same level of (crass) humour that made me enjoy her character so much to begin with.
The slow burn romance between these two is next level sweet and beautiful, the relationship that blooms between these two warmed the very bottom of my heart.
note: I wouldn't say it was 100% necessary to read The Wall Of Winnipeg and Me before this book, but I think the background knowledge on Diana and her family is helpful.
Diana, was a great character strong, independent, sassy, funny and loved her nephews fiercely.
Dallas, well, was at first stoic (he had his reasons) but a hard worker and kind but I loved him right from the start.
I could totally relate those hard moments Diana faced, her doubts and about being a good role model for her nephews, just her everyday struggles that parents face.
"Wait for it" is a wonderful story of a woman who goes through difficult and unbearable loses in her life.
The love of a wonderful caring and loyal man who was just waiting for, HER, for their moment to be right.
I knew going in it was going to be a slow burn - MZ builds her stories slowly, weaving in layer upon layer and I love that, usually.
This time the slow burn was too slow and didn't really do much for me, I got a lot of the layers that I know MZ is going to give me, but the nitty gritty was missing.
I also love just how gone for Diana Dallas was once we eventually got to the romance part, right near the end.
I wanted to see more of just how much he loved her, more of them together, more of them building their family.
Check out this and my other reviews at My Blog, Facebook, Google+, Twitter and Pinterest★Book Basics★  Genre : - Contemporary Romance  Series : - Stand Alone Love triangle?  - (view spoiler)[No (hide spoiler)] Cheating?  - (view spoiler)[No (hide spoiler)] HEA? -  (view spoiler)[Yes (hide spoiler)] Would I read more by this author/or in this series?  - Yes Rating  - 5 stars★Review★You know what I hate about a MZ book, when I have finished it!? Knowing I have an UNACCEPTABLE wait for the next MZ
(view spoiler)[Yes (hide spoiler)]
Knowing I have an UNACCEPTABLE wait for the next MZ book to be released!When I started this, I wondered if I had the patience for it, waiting for each little hint, each look that suggests the hero feels more for the heroine than he lets on.But, I clearly forgot just how damn awesome that it.
Experiencing everything the heroine experiences, getting those little hints, as you slowly experience a good (yet possibly taciturn, grumpy) man fall utterly in love!I loved Diana, she was trying so hard for her nephews, clearly loved them to bits (I do sort of wish she had stood up to her mother more however).
Especially her The Wall of Winnipeg and Me book, one of my all time favourites.
This book, for me, didn't quite reach the epicness that is The Wall but I was quite engrossed in it regardless.
The reason it didn't ball me over in a way was because I didn't really feel the chemistry and attraction between the two main characters, Dallas and Diana.
I wanted to keep reading more about Diana with her nephews Lou and Josh more than the scenes with her and Dallas.
“I always thought you looked like mine, but you sure do fucking feel like you’re mine, too."Breathe in.Breathe out.Calm. I am calm.FUCK!!!!!!!!!She's fucking done it again!!If I haven't already made this clear before, Mariana Zapata is one of the BEST storytellers EVER!!Her words! Fuck her words fucking hit me every single turn of the page.It's so real. To the silly nicknames to every conversation, it's just real life to me. I loved her other books and I loved this one just as much.Diana was su
I am calm.FUCK!!!!!!!!!She's fucking done it again!!If I haven't already made this clear before, Mariana Zapata is one of the BEST storytellers EVER!!Her words!
Fuck her words fucking hit me every single turn of the page.It's so real.
The way he was with Diana and the boys just hit me hard.
Again my words won't do this story justice.I loved every fucking minute and would read it all over again in a heartbeat.I will admit right now that I lost my absolute shit when I was reunited with some of my favourite characters once again.
Fuck, WHY DID IT HAVE TO END!!!
4 "slow burn love" starsSome people in life got lucky and found someone great, the rest of us either took a long time… or not everAnd Diana Casillas was lucky enough...to find what everyone hopes to find at some point in their lives...and she makes it happenThis was another slow burn romance from a "slow burn queen" Mariana Zapata, and I found several points "close to home" that kept my interest, brought up funny memories as well as some sad ones, but all in all, Mariana's talent to present a life's segment through out insightful, funny, sweet, sad, awkward and swooning moments performed by often more than realistic characters, still manages to shake some feathers of inner "guarded" layers that make you reflect on the things that matter in life, things you tend to take for granted until you find yourself in a situation that threathens you to lose them and then that scares the shit out of you...and you grip them close and closer to savour them, to engrave them in your inner core while you realize again and again, they are here to stay making them a part of you.
I'm a true fan of this author, i didn't even bother with the blurb before i dived into this book.
Only stopped to read the blurb around 30% when i was really trying to figure out who the hero in this book could be.
I loved that he cared for the kids as much as Diana did.
SO DARN SWEET and SO DARN REAL!This book had everything i love in my sweet romance books- two absolutely adorable kids and one big dog, a sassy, strong minded, amazingly kind heroine and a super sweet, i-could-not-believe-he-was-capable-of-such-sweetness hero.
I mean Kulti and Winnipeg were both slow but Wait for It is another level of slow and I was like "when are things going to happen?".
They're the reason why I enjoyed the book so much, especially Louie light of my life, my sunshine, precious cinnamon roll too good for this world-Overall: of all her works that I read, this isn't Zapata's best but hey, #noragrets.
I still want to adopt Louie as my own, he's so precious.Also we're getting a new Zapata book soon I'm so excited !!!
4 -I actually "waited for it" and didn't kill someone- StarsTrust me; I'm not big on delayed gratification and I am also known to be a bit of an impatient cow when it comes to slow burns.
So imagine my surprise when I knowingly went into a book titled: "Wait for it", penned by an author who is renowned for her super slow burn romances...
In all honesty; I don't think this H and his type of quiet romance would have worked if the author didn't make the burn excruciatingly slow, because once the H's intentions started to unfold and his reasons for waiting became clearer; it made the reward for my endurance So. Much.
“I already feel sorry for whatever poor bastard ends up with me some day, but he’ll know what he’s getting into. I don’t hide it.”This was another hit read for me from Mariana Zapata. So far all her books that I have read have been solid 5 stars and this one is was no different. I could not put this book down!While Wait for It was definitely high up on the “slow burn romance” meter, it was also so much more, hitting on many points that totally work for me in books: • Low angst • Rich storyline,
So far all her books that I have read have been solid 5 stars and this one is was no different.
Their personalities just burst off the pages of every scene they were in an totally enriched Diana’s life.
After moving to a new town, Dallas, the neighbour and Josh's baseball coach, entered the scene and I fell even more in love with the story.
I loved that I only got to see him through Diana’s point of view.
With Dallas, though, both boys took to him almost immediately.“I could see the hint of a smile on his pale pink mouth.
I dunno what to say…The book was fabulous, but such a slow burn. I feel like I read it for the last 3 months…I might check in the mirror if I got wrinkles :-)Loved the heroine! I’ll write smth serious after 10-hour sleep.
“What do you want from me?”“Everything.”  I am never going to have enough talent at my disposal to fully express how much this book has changed me, how much it has shifted something in me and made me take note of every single word in it. Picked on a whim, I never expected to find this perfect of a story, never even hoped I would connect with it so profoundly and adore its characters so much, but I have fallen head over heels for Mariana Zapata’s extraordinary voice within minutes of opening th
Picked on a whim, I never expected to find this perfect of a story, never even hoped I would connect with it so profoundly and adore its characters so much, but I have fallen head over heels for Mariana Zapata’s extraordinary voice within minutes of opening this book.
This was one of the most beautiful, poignant stories I have ever read, and one I am recommending without reservation.
Continue reading this review...
Follow me on Facebook!
| Follow me on Twitter!
i heard there's a new drug being sold on the streets and it's called, "mariana zapata".  Obviously, I had to try it because #curiosity. Let me tell you..........I've never been the same person again. I've been addicted ever since the first book dose.
https://romanticcynicblog.wordpress.c...Beware of Spoilers!Star Ratings:Heroine (Diana): 29yrs oldHero (Dallas): 41yrs oldPlot: 5/5Grovel: noneCheating: noneHEA: yes!Triggers: H is married when he meets h but has been separated for several years - nothing happens until after he gets divorcedAverage score: 5/5Best Line: “One day I would grow into my own person who didn’t care about doing the right thing.
One day when hell froze over.”Worst Line: None!Personal Review:Another perfect slow-burn romance by Zapata!Random Ramblings•I was screaming for her to call the Police!!•Yes!
A Batman reference!!•I loved Vanessa and Aiden and was pleased to meet them again in this book•The stare-off was funny•I loved how involved she was in the boys lives and their interests•Dean, Lou and Josh…•Buttercup...
First read: December 8-13, 2018Second read: (Audio version) February 20-22, 2018"5 - So worth the wait Stars!"I enjoyed my second reading/listening of this book so much more than the first.I think it's because I just finished re-reading some of Mariana's books, so this one followed right after The Wall of Winnipeg and Me where Diana was first introduced to me.Once again Ms. Zapata gave her readers a great story with amazing characters (especially her nephews).Great story.
I LOVED this book! Everything about it - the slow burn romance, the heroine who is raising her nephews, the standoffish hero with a big heart, the friendship before romance, the humor, the heartbreaking moments - everything in this book was complete perfection. This is a top pick of 2016 and it's going on my top 10 favorites ever list! It was amazing and I never wanted this book to end. I'm already looking forward to re-reading it and telling everyone I know to read it too!
