https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383184.The_Case_of_the_Late_Pig
I saw the main plot twist coming from the beginning, but it seemed like she pretty much tipped her hand at the funeral in the beginning of the story.
Also saw the minor romantic twist coming, since it works pretty much the same way in several books: some girl who we've never heard of before (or will again) is asserted to be part of a family of Old, Dear Friends of Campion's, and some romantic interest between them is asserted, but not demonstrated by interaction or emotion, or acted on by the characters, and by the end the girl has found someone new.
Campion with a twist. Told by Albert Campion himself the reader knows all he does except he does not reveal the mystery until it is played out in the story. A much shorter book than the others I've read, you are almost on top of the climax while still feeling the scene is being set but when you get there it is as exciting as ever. In the meantime there are so many suspicious and eccentric characters around that it is a mind game just to keep them straight as to who is who!
Again, I found there were a lot of characters given very little introduction and at times I had to go back and re-read to remember who was who and why they were there.We are treated to the tired old trope of moonlight as bright as day; at one point Campion claims that "colours were almost distinguishable!" I've talked to people who lived in places where there wasn't much light pollution, and they all say that's nonsense.
Allingham doesn't go as far as some of her contemporaries, who speak of reading books by moonlight etc, which isn't possible, either.
In other words, this is a monstrously uneven piece from Allingham, but at the same time it's tremendously entertaining.When Campion was at boarding school, his life was made a misery by the bully Rowland "Pig" Peters.
Learning from the newspaper obit columns that Pig is dead, he makes a point of attending the funeral -- perhaps wishing he had a stake to hand.A few months later, he's called to the East Anglian home of his old friend Leo Pursuivant, whose daughter Janet Campion he nurtures a pash for.
I've been informed that she has a rather varied corpus, and I picked this one as it was characterized as a standard fairplay mystery.
Here's a mystery that- at 150 pages or so- maintains its focus and doesn't overstay its welcome.
Ultimately, she's a strong substitute for Christie up to the point of the reveal, at which point, you've either got Christie's brains and capacity for misdirection or you don't.Allingham may surprise me yet, but for now, she's quite good fodder in between Christie's so that I can further delay that inevitable day when I have no Christie novels left.
It wasn't what I expected with more of a comic absurd tone than an Agatha Christie style mystery (Admittedly, I had no information that Allingham wrote like Christie - I just assumed).
Campion was actually very similar to Jeeves from a P.G. Wodehouse novel, and the relationship between Campion and Lugg reminded me a little of Jeeves and Wooster, too.
I found Campion's narration kind of irritatin' though, especially the persistent droppin' of all the g's whenever he was sayin' anythin' with an -ing.
But, most importantly, the story was pleasingly textbook.
Yet another Allingham novel that I read and forgot I'd read.
This book was enjoyable to read. I think a person needs a good grasp of British humor and culture to really enjoy its finer points.
Complicated, but fun.
My first Allingham. Liked it. After reading everything by Agatha Christie, I was looking for someone close to Christie is class. Now a find one.
But six months later he is asked by a long-time family friend, a judge, to come down to the little village of Kepesake to help in the investigation of a (possibly) accidental death.
Nonetheless, it's chock full of wonderful things, including a very strongly woven plot (although the basic premise might be easy to guess now), glorious characterizations - pretty nearly every participant, but IMO the best were Judge Leo, Miss Effie, Poppy, and Albert himself.
And the pace is just the good side of frantic, as this novella moves rather similarly to her earliest Campion books, with something peculiar and some sort of chase or active investigatory thing going on at almost every page or so.
I believe this was the first Campion story I ever read, and I wasn't sure if it was going to live up to my memories.
The tale is told in the first person from Campion's point of view, but while pleasant, this was also a little disappointing.
Whippet is rather vague, but he's little more than the plot device to keep the story going - and admits such himself - so perhaps that was deliberate.
Not too long, featuring Lugg as well as Campion, and with a clever plot and satisfactory resolution.
I absolutely LOVED, LOVED, LOVED Margery Allingham's The Case of the Late Pig. This was my first introduction to Albert Campion, and I just have to say that I love him!
This adventure is mine, Albert Campion's, and I am fairly certain that I was pretty nearly brilliant in it in spite of the fact that I so nearly got myself and old Lugg killed that I hear a harp quintet whenever I consider it.
The book begins with Lugg reading aloud the deaths in the Times to his master as he's eating in bed.
But. Campion did promise himself (and Peters, I believe) that he would attend his funeral.
Book 8 in the Albert Campion series, and Allingham does something markedly different here: for the first time, she tells the story in first person narration from Campion’s viewpoint: and I’m not sure that is entirely successful.
Instead, they just seem tiresome or silly.The first person narration, coupled with the author’s frequent use of what I call telegraphing, combine to make Campion seem like an utter dolt.
By telegraphing I mean phrases such as “I was wrong, but I only found that out later.” She has Campion say that numerous times.
But I hope Allingham goes back to third person narration in the next installment of the series.
I thought this book seemed interesting at first- very different being randomly from Campion's first-person point of view. But in the end I found it dreadfully boring. I really enjoyed Allingham's first book, in which Campion was really a side character, but I haven't been crazy about any of the others.
This is not up to Allingham's usual standard. Mr. Campion narrates this one himself, and it just falls flat. It seems as though this book should have fallen under the category of "before first novel" and not have been written by an author at the height of her powers.
Found this one very engaging and enjoyable.
Unlike her other two Campions I have read,this was narrated by Campion himself and that in my opinion did wonders.
This approach saved me from a lot of irritation caused by repeated occurences of words like "ineffectual","vacuous" etc.
The story was suspenseful and the mystery was much mysterious than "Look to the Lady" or "Dancers in Mourning" and the length (or the lack thereof) helped immensly .This book is compact and reads like a proper whodunnit and a very good one at that.The modus operandi and motive both eluded me and that's a good thing.
If you're sick and tired of serial killers, child molesters, ancient secrets, and/or any of the other faddish genres that are current today, then I recommend Margery Allingham. Her books manage to be good mysteries without resorting to describing gory details. In this one, the first victim manages to die without even shedding blood. Allingham is a genius at describing her characters and the names she gives them are priceless. In this book she has characters called Pussey, Hayho, and of course, the continuing character of Lugg. You won't be bored but you also won't have trouble sleeping at night.
good book from the investigation point of view and incredibly creepy, lots of shocks and gothic; but it's in the first person and the revelations fall into place all of a sudden, near the end, so it's boring if you just go along for the ride. In fact, more likely to appeal to readers who find Campion novels not Holmes-like enough (too few clues, not enough personal deduction time) or scary gothic scenes - some very filmic touches. Less of the lingo and the ride
I've never been the biggest fan of the Campion series, though I've read one or two that I liked.
In general, though, Campion the character just isn't my cup of tea.
But Campion and his cases usually leave me cold.
I forgot this at the library this month, however, and picked up this little Campion book.
This was a perfectly pleasant read, and differs from other Campions in being told in first person (narrated by Campion himself).
This stylistic choice made Campion 'click' more for me, and I enjoyed the book.
Whippet was my favorite character (view spoiler)[(I love secret identities, haha) (hide spoiler)].
I always find murder mysteries confusing. They come together in the end but from the first page to around 80% into the book I keep reading but find I've got lost in so many ways. This book just confirmed this to me, and so I don't think I will read many more murder mysteries. It's always such a relief to find out "who-dunnit" just to get back to the story, to understand the various characters and to conclude the story.
Light hearted frosting on a very nasty cake.Great fun to read, lots of jolly japes, covering very disturbing events. She is better at writing than Christie, who was more original at plotting. A darned good read, what ?
Hmmm. Very good in many regards, but somehow I just couldn't like this as much as I thought I would. Very confident Wodehouse-esque writing, but does every lower-class character have to be oafish and dull?
I love a good vintage mystery. Margery Allingham wrote lots of Albert Campion mysteries and some stand alone books. The are fairly easy to find as they are classics from the Golden Age of Mysteries. Authors from that time also include Agatha Christie and Dorothy Sayers and more.
I quite enjoyed The White Cottage from this author, and this was quite cheap on Kindle so I gave it a go. I just could NOT like Campion; and found myself growing impatient for it to to just be over. Skimmed through, decent ending, but won't be picking up any others.
Excellent plot. A couple of red herrings, but the careful reader is also given clues as to whom the culprit might be.
Not my favorite by far, especially written in first person. Somehow it didn't seem as complicated as the others either.
I Book-$1.99-Early Bird Books A good mystery by a very good author
A fun book narrated by Campion himself.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
