https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31100.To_Have_and_to_Hold
Alice has married her high school crush and lives a life of luxury.
Also, her husband, Joe, is a womanizing cad, cheating on Alice every chance he can.
When an affair with a co-worker goes awry, Alice and Joe move to the U.S., where Alice buys a cottage in the country.
When Joe starts to stray again, Alice wonders if she will ever find true happiness with her life.Ugh. Alice is a complete pushover and it’s almost enraging how her husband treats her throughout the book.
I read chick-lit to give me an escape and because it’s fluff, not to bring me down.
After reading i was like WTF,making mockery of vows and friendshipthe wife Alice was blind to all th
This story follows Alice and her seemingly "dream come true" life with her high school crush-now-husband Joe. How do you know if a relationship is healthy for you?
However, Alice is not without her own faults, and her relationships with old and new friends are also integrated within this story as life comes full-circle for her.
I really enjoyed this book and if you enjoy Jane Green's writing style, you'll likely enjoy it too!My favorite quote:"I saw it and thought you'd love it, and rose quartz is supposed to bring love into your life." Joe raises an eyebrow.
Una protagonista sin autoestima alguna, un cerdo cabrón por marido, una historia deprimente y llena de escenas poco gratas.
Y fue una de esas obras que me hicieron odiar un poquito más el chick - lit.
No me gustan los cabrones, no me gusta que las mujeres no se amen a si mismas, no me gusta que alguien sienta que no vale nada y que por eso se merece que su marido, le sea infiel, y la trate como a un felpudo.
Esta es una novela sobre como JAMÁS deberíamos dejar que nadie nos tratara ¬¬
Can you say love is blind?
This book really drove me up the wall.
It seemed so far fetched my head was spinning.
Not only did it make a mockery out of friendships and loyalty, it made one out of the vows and love people are given.
The heroines husband was a arrogant gross pig which had me turning green sometimes.
I wanted to remove the husbands nuts and castrate him.
He was childish, immature at times and a couple blows to the head would be delightful and probably help him see things more clearly.
*kicks wall*
Just a bit of light reading for a change. Chic Lit.Wife of a serial adulterer who has changed her into someone she is not wises up when they move to the USA. She finds a house in the country, finds a mind of her own and dumps him.
Así que, aunque Alice desconozca (o finja desconocer) qué hace su marido cuando no está en casa, el lector lo sabe en todo momento, y me voy a detener aquí un segundo porque necesito desahogarme: Joe es el personaje más repugnante que me he encontrado en mucho tiempo.Joe parece el hombre perfecto, pero es un misógino de cuidado, siempre acostumbrado a lograr lo que quiere y que ve a las mujeres como meros accesorios.
I had never heard of Jane Green before I picked this up so I didn't know what to expect but I actually really enjoyed the book.
This book reminded me of one of those entertaining lower-budget films about love.
I absolutely despised Joe. I hate reading books where cheating is justified and Joe justified it constantly.
I loved how they treated each other and sometimes I got so wrapped up in their conversations that I would forget that I was reading a book.
Not all books tell you what happens and sometimes it's just nice to know.
By clicking the link above, you find that the book is about Alice who wasted 6 years of her life married to an insecure man-child, Joe, who cheats on her repeatedly in the book with various (usually younger) women.
When I read about them in books, I just want the female character to go Angela Bassett from Waiting to Exhale on their ass.
Watching Alice just be in denial about her husband nightly activities with other women was frustratingly painful.
I wanted pain, suffering and retribution from Joe. I wanted the second half of the book to be more about her and Harry.
It is whilst in New York that Alice starts to feel herself as they manage to have to homes one in Manhattan for Joe to be close to work and one little cottage in Connecticut which Alice has always dreamed of.
Thing is with Alice feeling more herself and building the life she has always wanted in Connecticut, things get a bit rocky for the couple.
Jane describes the two main characters well letting you warm to Alice and wanting her to finally be herself and be happy and also describing Joe making you feel slightly cold towards him like you usually do with womanisers.
I picked up this older paperback at my local library...
By some random coincidence, I keep reading books about cheating in marriages!
It's not saying anything about my own relationship and actually makes me feel a bit more secure in my own marriage.
This was a light read and interesting to see how the dynamics of marriage can change as the people change.
It also shows that you should be upfront about yourself before marriage and also shouldn't try to change people from their natural tendencies.
I love Jane Green's writing, so that bumped up this 3.5 stars to 4 stars.
Oh the hilarity.I have been known to love Jane Green. Jemima J is great, and several others have excellent characters and moments.But this was too much. Wish I could remember the specific horrors right now, but needless to say it was far more caricature-y than usual and everyone in it was stupid and unsympathetic. I guess I learned don't marry for money and try to be someone you're not? haha.Reading this back to back with Erica Jong's mid-life account of Connecticut divorced life (Parachutes and Kisses -- oh 80's title) was absolutely laughable.
Enjoyable, predictable and perfectly readable, this was good chick-lit and perfect for plane trips

Ma questo non è tutto....perché il caro maritino è un traditore seriale, il tipo da una scappatella dietro l'altra e quindi da riunioni fino a tarda sera, cene di lavoro, viaggi di lavoro.
Mentre leggevo volevo urlare "Alice svegliatiiiii!!!": è vero che la moglie è l'ultima a sapere le cose ma qualche dubbio ogni tanto no???!?!?!.Verso la fine la storia si movimenta un po' e migliora ma la narrazione sembra una semplice esposizione dei fatti ed è molto impersonale e non fa entrare in sintonia con i personaggi.Mi aspettavo davvero qualcosa di più.
Perkawinan di fantasinya adalah dilakukan di sebuah gereja batu kecil, dengan memakai fluffy wedding gown, mahkota bunga dan tanpa alas kaki.Dia dan sahabatnya, Emily, tergila-gila dengan salah satu cowok bernama Joe. Kebetulan Joe ini teman kakak laki2 Alice.
Joe menuntut Alice untuk selalu tampil prima, sehingga Alice harus melakukan diet ketat, meluruskan rambut, menghighlight rambut sehingga menjadi warna honey blond, memakai sepatu berhak tinggi Jimmy Choo dan tindakan yang menyiksa lainnya.Hidup Alice berubah sewaktu perusahaan tempat Joe bekerja mentransfer Joe ke New York karena Joe ketauan berselingkuh dengan Josie, salah satu karyawan perusahaan itu.Dengan gaji dan tunjangan yang baru, Joe bisa membeli 1 apartemen di Manhattan dan rumah di daerah pedesaan.Alice seperti menemukan hidupnya kembali.
Throughout the book Joe calls Alice pretty much every night and says, "Look the meeting's over but the client wants to have dinner, so I think tonight's going to be impossible.
He's sure his luck is in tonight, sure that he'll manage to conquer the ice queen (Alice)although suprised that it's happened this quickly." (Pg 72-73)She has heard rumors about Joe and Josie but she is so in love with Joe she doesn't think anything of it when Joe calls numerous times a week and says he won't be able to come home tonight.
Buku pertama Jane Green yg kubaca.Buku ini dibeli saat mengikuti diklat di Yogyakarta, Des 2011 dengan harga obral,tujuannya untuk hiburan dimalam hari berhubung kamar diwisma diklat tidak disediakan TV,hanya ada diruang makan dan lobby...(Disuruh belajar boo..hehe),tp ternyata sampai diklat selama seminggu berakhir,buku ini ngga sempat dibaca karena kami lebih banyak menghabiskan waktu untuk berburu batik dan kuliner Jogja sehabis mengikuti kelas..:) Jadilah buku ini baru dibaca akhir Maret, menemani cuti seminggu selama di Jakarta,tp baru tuntas setelah di Pontianak lagi..ini sdh blm ya reviunya..Нii˚⌣˚нii˚⌣˚нii ‎​​​​​​​˚⌣˚нii...Spellbound tadinya aku pikir cerita yg ada magic2nya..ternyata ngga ada sama sekali,spellbound menceritakan seorang Alice yg menikah dengan pangeran impiannya sejak dibangku sekolah, bertemu lagi setelah sekian tahun dan bam..tiba-tiba sang pangeran jatuh cinta dan mengajak menikah.
Kelihatannya sederhana sekali proses pernikahan the country girl dan prince charming ini.Namun mimpi lebih sering terlalu indah dibanding kenyataan.
I enjoyed the fact that the main character lost her identity in her marriage but regained it again when she realized her marriage wasn't working.
There was one bit that bothered me about the book and that was the feeble attempt to tell parts of the story from the husband's point of view.
Yes, he's a total jerk, but then the author shouldn't attempt to share his view of the situation.
He's not a sympathetic character, but right in the middle of his point of view, the author would basically call him a jerk.
It was humorous, but didn't work for me in a literary sense.
My absolute favorite of Jane Green's books.
It made me want to paint, to draw, to lock myself away in the country, and bake homemade pastries, while enjoying a women's group book club, followed by antiquing and a great cup of coffee!Joe is such a womanizing cad, it almost makes Alice laughable.
A few of the choices that Alice makes cause her to be snivelling and pathetic, while other choices are so extraordinarily bold, and totally out of character that they are not really believable, especially considering the wonderful friendship that she shares with Emily.The story is good, but the vibe, the feel, the experience and setting of this book are nearly as good as a lovely holiday.
Jane Green always entertains, and this book is no exception.
Don't know how to review such books.
I mean it wasn't bad, but I didn't enjoy it either.
Like what do I even say about such books?
We know before getting into the story that guy is unfaithful.
Woman, I mean.
You can say that this is the story of her finding out her true happiness lies in making herself happy, but we already knew that.
She already knew that.
This is not a story which keeps you at an edge.
It is just series of events strung together, the kinda thing you would watch (read) without getting too involved, or too concerned.
I think a lot of readers would think of this as chick lit.
I saw beyond that as a sign of the culture of greed we live in.
Joe is one of the most despicable characters I've encountered in fiction.
I don't think he had a sex addiction.
I think he had a Joe addiction.
He couldn't understand Alice's enjoyment in gardening and the simple things in life like walking for the sake of walking and appreciating nature.
He couldn't appreciate the cottage; he wanted a McMansion.
Thank goodness Alice finally finds herself and is true to herself.
Good read!
Better than the past few Jane Green novels I have read.
Alice gets married and her husband turns her into a trophy wife, dying her hair and making her dress in designer clothes, but he has been unfaithful to her.
Eventually, he gets with josie, a coworker who moved to America.
He continues the affair leaving Alice at home.
She finds out about Josie when she comes to the US.
Alice falls for a friend, Harry, and Joe ends up dumping Josie once he gets bored with her too.
This leaves her devastated thinking she was going to be wife #2
Dear Elise,Do you love characters who tie themselves into knots sublimating their thoughts and feelings to satisfy others?
Are you interested in a protagonist who abdicates all responsibility for her life by letting her husband dictate the minutiae of her existence?
What if I said, there is absolutely no textual evidence that would suggest this husband is remotely worth the extraordinary efforts of said protagonist.
Hmm?
Somehow, I did not think so.If you were very cold and on the point of hypothermia, this would make excellent tinder.
As a physical artifact this book has no other reason for existence.
Sincerely, Linda
Not one of my favorite Jane Green books. I hated the husband--how can you have any respect for someone like him? And I felt like I should've had sympathy for the wife, but I didn't. I felt like she was weak--not just for overlooking his BS, but also for completly molding herself into what he wanted her to be. I wish there had been at least one character that I felt a little sympathetic to other than the dog!Overall I felt like this book was a good example of how not to live your life--in more ways than one.
I read one book by Jane Green that I loved, but everyone since then has been just okay and this is a "just okay" book.
And the Joe character is such a slimeball, you just want to ask Alice why she would even be interested in the first place.
Though the book does end happily for Alice, I really wanted something awful to happen to Joe, but no, he just moves on to wreck havoc on other women's lives.
I think I may have to give up on Jane Green, even though I really liked Jemima J.
The basic story of a woman loosing her marriage, by finding herself. Enjoyable enough, but wanted more. Not more pages (there were plenty of those), a more explainable love. I didn't feel the connection between relationships, any of them.
I read a ton of mixed reviews on this book, so I was a little leary about it, but I must say I really enjoyed. I love how the main character was able to find the happiness she deserved and be herself!
maybe because I'm a sucker for happy endings, but loved this book
*Actual Rating: 3.5* Addicting and compelling. This one knew just how to evoke certain emotions from me, particularly anger. Also, the narrator was quite enjoyable to listen to.
