https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72741.Paragon_Walk
As a result, his investigation is prolonged and feels to him like he is continuously going over the same ground with no results.Emily, partly out of fear, and Charlotte, out of the desire to help ease her sister’s mind, find themselves going to as many of the parties and soirees in Paragon Walk as they can.
The ending was definitely a surprise but I also would have liked more of a sense of what happens with some of the other characters.
On the other hand, since Emily actually lives there, these characters may come up again at some point in the future.
"People do such strange things to cover their guilt."The wealthy upper crust of Paragon Walk squeezed the mind-dulling monotony of friendships and marriage into embarrassments and silence.
A darker conflict drove this story.
The he-said, she-said camaraderie that I was hoping to occur between Thomas and his wife, Charlotte, was seriously lacking.
The closest this point came into being was between Charlotte and her sister, Emily.
This was the third story in this series.
It may have just come down to personal taste and the correct frame of mind but I was disappointed with Paragon Walk.
This was another good historical mystery from Anne Perry. There was plenty of dirt to uncover in the lives of all the characters, and it kept me guessing all the way through. I was convinced I had it right up until the very end, and I didn't! But everything fit once I knew all the pieces. The ending was just a little abrupt - I could have done with even just a paragraph or two more to wind it down. (view spoiler)[And I still want to know who Alaric is! (hide spoiler)]
I hope this series improves soon; so far I don’t like it as well as the author’s William Monk mysteries, which were written later in her career.
This book is very weak, and I’m not in the least impressed with Thomas Pitt’s sleuthing skills.The mystery concerns a young woman who has been raped and murdered.
The Victorian social ill in the spotlight is the blame assigned to rape victims; such things do not happen to virtuous women.There is still very little here about Thomas and Charlotte’s life together.
I’m disappointed at the lack of conflict between them, considering their disparate social classes.
The weeks go by and the police remain baffled and in the meantime, Charlotte spends more and more of her time attempting to help her sister Emily discover "who dun it" and in the process discovers more than she wanted to know about her husband and the neighbors in Paragon Walk while we can enjoy our distance from their rapier-like tongues.It's the discovery of another body that sets everything spinning to the ultimate conclusion after a few red herrings.
Mrs. Smith across the way helps Charlotte by watching Jessamine when Charlotte goes off sleuthing.A pregnant Lady Emily Ashworth begs Charlotte for help and support as Pitt investigates her own neighbors on Paragon Walk.
Perry writes the most amazing conversation among women.
It is hard to imagine the stress of having to manage one's words, as these Victorian age characters did in conversations requiring multiple levels of meaning.
Perry's books show tremendous insensitivity among the classes and even between station levels within classes.
To give her readers access across the classes, Perry in her first book, married one sister above her station and one below her station -- to policeman Pitt who came from a servant class and now works with persons in lower classes while providing service to all classes.
This book was a really good mystery, but I found myself a little confused by everything going on in it and all of the possible suspects.
I think there were probably 20 or more characters in the book, by my count, most of whom were possible suspects.
I just had trouble keeping track of them all, let alone trying to suss out who the murderer was!
The only tolerable characters were Charlotte, Thomas, possibly Emily (although she irritates me), Vespasia, and Lettitia.
I just found myself irritated by some of the high society conversations and by Thomas being such a minor character in the book.
"We are conceived in sin, and some of us never rise above it"I've read some reviews about this book and seen than many people complaint about Pitt not being a very good detective and so on.
But don't you realize that, from the very first book, Pitt is not like others, for example, Poirot?...
The real investigators in these series are Charlotte and Emily!!"Always was a bit too clever.
Trouble is, he wasn't clever enough to pretend to be a little less clever.""Success without envy was like snails without sauce - and, as any cultivated woman knew, the sauce is everything.""The only people who can change things are the people with power and money.": sad but true.
There is interesting commentary on the nature of sexual assault and on how both men and women throughout the ages have grossly misunderstood the causes and motivations; yet, the author does not pretend to show a full understanding of the crime nor that all instances stem from the same roots.
The essence of strength is not in overpowering others, but in mastering oneself.Both this book and Cater Street Hangman deal with the mistaken notion that only loose women get assaulted and that virtuous women have nothing to fear; in both books, this safe haven is clung to so desperately that no woman's character could be unimpeachable enough to ever disprove the theory.
If you like Victorian cozies and lovable characters, this book is for you.With the third in the Pitt series, the author, Anne Perry hits her stride.
Ms Perry lays bare the hypocrisy at the heart of Victorian society, the theme at the heart of this intricately plotted, beautifully and accurately detailed novel.
You won’t want it to end, but end it does, just after the mystery is solved.Meet the ageless beauty, Lady Vespasia Cumming-GouldA recurring character in the Pitt series, Lady Vespasia Cumming-Gould, makes her first appearance in this novel.
I had a bit of problem with this one and for me it didn't work as well as the other.In the posh London street of Paragon Walk, a young woman is brutally raped and murdered.
I also like Pitt's take on the murders and victorian society and this time it seemed we only saw it through Charlotte and her sister's eyes.
Estoy conociendo a Anne Perry con su saga del inspector Thomas Pitt y la verdad es que me está encantando. Thomas y Charlotte Pitt son geniales. Está claro que esa genial ambientación me puede. Es una saga que disfruto muy fácilmente.
3,5"(...) toda a gente tem segredos, excepto os que nunca viveram qualquer espécie de vida." (P. 146)Este é o 3° volume desta série, protagonizada pelo inspetor Thomas Pitt e a sua esposa Charlotte. É um policial de época, centrado na investigação de crimes ocorridos em Paragon Walk, uma rua habitada pela fina flor da sociedade londrina da época vitoriana. É uma história de agradável leitura, com um enredo bem construído. Gostava de ter visto mais ação por parte do inspetor T. Pitt e que o final oferecesse mais explicações sobre os segredos desenterrados por Charlotte.
Another excellent Charlotte and Thomas Pitt mystery, this story takes place on the street where Charlotte's sister, Emily, lives. A young girl from a very well-to-do family is murdered and Charlotte and Emily must help Thomas find the murderer. They are not successful until a second murder victim is found, and then there are many leads that take the reader in many directions.
The author does a great job of presenting Victorian society through the eyes of Charlotte Pitt and her husband-detective, but the plot wasn’t as well developed as the characters.
Finished reading: June 3rd 2013 (view spoiler)[Paragon Walk is apparently the third book in the Charlotte & Thomas Pitt series set in Victorian London. I couldn't say I enjoyed this novel by Anne Perry, and I don't think it's because I haven't read the first two books in the series. For me the plot and the murder mystery itself lacked attention. It seemed like there were too many characters involved, and too much focus on the norms of high class society. I understand Perry wanted to show ho
(view spoiler)[Paragon Walk is apparently the third book in the Charlotte & Thomas Pitt series set in Victorian London.
I'm sorry to say this one was definitely not satisfying.It all starts when a young woman is raped and murdered in one of the posh streets of London called Paragon Walk.
Inspector Thomas Pitt is send to solve the murder, but he soon finds out that finding out who did it will be complicated.
He stands in the shadow of his wife Charlotte, who once formed part of the high society and still has her sister Emily living in the Paragon Walk.
Book three in the Charlotte and Thomas Pitt mystery series finds Charlotte's sister, Emily, in the middle of yet another murder.
After another body turns up, Charlotte and Thomas fear that they may not solve the mystery in time.I started this series a long time ago and only recently remembered it when I ventured into the Maisie Dobbs series.
At times, it felt like there was no progress in solving the mystery, which both irritated and intrigued me.
I felt like I worked just as hard as Charlotte and Thomas to solve the mystery and didn't get my payment.
This, the third in Perry's late-Victorian Thomas and Charlotte Pitt murder mysteries, find our heroes investigating a rape and murder right on Charlotte's sister's doorstep.
The mystery itself in this book, did not have a clear culprit from the beginning.
Perhaps I've been reading too much 1st and 3rd-person-limited POV books recently, but her omniscient POV is often a little too detached for me.
It feels a little artificial too me.Also, I don't like that the ending finishes with the capture of the culprit without some kind of epilogue.
I would recommend this book, and this series, particularly to those who enjoy historical fiction and mysteries.
(Genre:mystery) I really like Anne Perry's writing style.
The focus on the "darker" underside to the Victorian upper class is getting on my nerves (probably because the moral hypocrisy is so disturbing to me) and volume #3 was particularly bad, as it dealt with a murder victim who had been sexually assaulted before dying (and therefore, HER morals are thrown into question.
But Perry does a good job of bringing the time period alive and since it is that "darker" side to society that leads to the murders, it is central to the plot and therefore, not something that can just be cut out (otherwise it would be a completely different genre) just because I am tired of it.
Reading this series reminds me of how I like someone more and more as I get to know them better.
I really liked Charlotte and Thomas in the first book but they grow on me more and more with each book.
Thomas wasn't in this book as much which is surprising since he's the lead detective on the case.
There aren't as many obvious clues and there isn't one or two suspects that draws the readers attention from what is really going on.
The author doesn't give you any big hints but lets the reader suspect everyone a little bit.
Which reminds me- love this time period too.
I like this series and usually listen to one when taking a break from meatier works.
My chief complaint with this one centers on the way Charlotte's social standing is handled.
Yet when she gets invited to her wealthy sister's social functions she quickly accepts a borrowed dress, finds a sitter, and off she goes.
All this, of course, is a plot device to get Charlotte involved in investigating the mystery, but seemed contrived.
I have the entire series on my reading list and have hopes that others are better.

I can't believe I have just discovered this series.
I have randomly listened to some, then I had to find the 1st, which I discovered in a used book store.
I think they get better with each book (though I would have liked to see the marriage and also the pregnancy and birth of Jemima) Perry seems to skip 2 years at a time.
I like the time period, and I also like how she shoots down anti-semitism when it come us (and it does) Charlotte is just a terrific character.
The murders are not solved until the very last pages!!
This series is completely enjoyable.
I initially imagined these prim Victorian mysteries spearheaded by Detective Pitt but that's not the case at all.
I probably read way too much into Anne Perry's words, given her murderous past, but I'm blown away by the descriptions in her death discovery scenes.
I'm always startled to read them because they are unexpected, nestled between society teas and dining room decorum and yet they are so grim & gross.
I wish I had the attention span and loyalty to finish a series from start to finish because this would be one to get lost in.
This is an earlier book.
This and her tendency to reveal rather than solve the mystery are my prime complaints.Something that I like that I had not noticed before is her knack for putting little pearls of wisdom into the mouths or minds of her characters.
The one I remember from this book is "one should not do something solely to meet the expectations of others." There were other little pearls as well.
As usual, her ability to fit her characters into her background adds a lot to both the mood and my enjoyment of the story.
Thomas & Charlotte Pitt must tiptoe through the realm of the rich and well known as they try to find the rapist and murderer of a young woman who was to be married soon. It appears that the culprit is known and could be a family member or neighbor. But because they live on Paragon Walk they would not be suspected until all others are cast out thus leaving only those close to the murdered woman.Though a bit slow to start it became interesting and then hard to put down.
These are pretty good mysteries but after reading the first three I may or may not continue with this series. I do enjoy reading about the Victorian period in England but these appear to be somewhat repetitious and really rather slow moving.
Really enjoying this excellent series.
I really like this one, even if it's evident having read most of hers that she has this fixation on secrets hidden behind normal facades, especially sexual ones.
Another entertaining read in this series. I'm sure I will return again and again until I've read all 31 of these amusing 1880's English who-done-it novels but am taking a break for now.
