https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187634.Love_Is_Letting_Go_of_Fear
Here’s why: like many scriptures, this book pits good against evil as clearly as God versus Satan, only this time it’s love versus fear.
Well, according to Jerry, it’s because love lives in the present, and fear lives in a reflection of the past into the future.
Let go of the past and future, and live in the present.As Jerry says in the book, “Wouldn’t our lives be more meaningful if we looked to what has no beginning and no ending as our reality?
Everything else is transitory and therefore meaningless.”Now, doesn’t that sound an awful lot like John, the Gospel of Love?
Fear lives in us all. Reading this book helps me overcome many senseless worries. I went from shy to a public speaker using this book. I read it often and refer it to everyone. We all have a fear that limits us from our potential success.
Long before The Secret was trendy, this little book presented the idea that our thoughts create our reality, and that what we expect from life is what we get.
There are parts of this book that I struggle with, probably because these are lessons that I need to focus on, like fully accepting and forgiving people in my life who have repeatedly hurt me, and choosing to view them as inherently good people.
This one is about accepting responsibility for your thoughts and your life, especially when you don't like the life you have created.
This book fell into my hands at a Cancer Society yard sale last month.
I've been working on "The Power of Now" for months, and I intend to master the concepts and break some of my thought patterns that I've learned to think of as habits.
"Love Is Letting Go of Fear" was published in the late seventies and I found myself relieved to follow Jampolsky's approach to the Now at what I've been calling a "fifth-grade" level.
I'm going to seek out more of Jampolsky's books as I continue to study the Eckhart Tolle book.
There is a lot of good information in here regarding love vs fear.
Simply put, when we have fear, we are not loving.
Attacking always stems from fear and guilt.
Attack is really a defense and, as with all defenses which are designed to keep guilt and fear from our awareness, attack actually preserves the problem.
In order to experience peace instead of conflict, it is necessary to shift our perception.
Instead of seeing others as attacking us, we can see them as fearful.
We are always expressing either Love or fear.
Fear is really a call for help, and therefor a request for Love.
Liked one paragraph particularly about forgiveness:"The unforgiving mind, contrasted with the forgiving mind, is confused, afraid, and full of fear.
It is certain of the interpretation it places on its perceptions of others.
It is certain of the justification of its anger and the correctness of its condemning judgment.
The unforgiving mind rigidly sees the past and future as the same and is resistant to change.
It does not want the future to be different from the past.
The unforgiving mind sees itself as innocent and others as guilty.
it thrives on conflict and on being right, and it sees inner peace as its enemy.
Jack Canfield, the Chicken Soup Guy, states that his primary aim is to feel and experience joy. Doctor Jampolsky details what Canfield is referring to in this seminal work. Jampolsky states that our primary goal ought to be Peace of Mind. The good Doctor then explains how we can achieve this aim by forgiving ourselves and others.  Read it a couple of times and see if it makes sense for you.
This is the second time I have read this book. The first time was many years ago. I loved it then and I love it now. It is a beautiful book,practical and doable and we re given personal examples from Gerry about how he overcame some of his difficult challenges.
I read this in a day. Was pretty standard. Gave some good reminders, but nothing groundbreaking.
Gerald Jampolsky has greatly simplified some of the essential ideas in A Course in Miracles.
A MUST read for all... simple and to the point! Jerry is a friend and great writer... Enjoy!
5 stars
It's essentially a primer - boiling down a lot of the "self-help" concepts into this one book.
"The problem, of course, is that nothing in our external world will continuously and totally satisfy us.
We frequently think our inner well is empty and that we are in need.
When we expect others to satisfy our desired, and they disappoint us, as they inevitably must, we experience distress.
This distress can take the form of frustration, disappointment, anger, depression or illness.
What is helpful is to Love..."It all boils down to love and letting go of fear and what stops us from giving and ultimately, receiving love.
The book is only 133 pages but it will be one I will refer to quite frequently because I admittedly can say my mind can distort the way I think things are when they really that way at all.I would highly recommend this little book to at least see a different perspective and how it can enrich your life like it has for millions for about 40 years or so
I would totally give this book 5 stars, and maybe I'm being too tough a critic, but I'm left thinking it's all good and great to follow all his lessons, but should we love and accept everyone?
Ok that's a bad question but if my husband is a serial cheater or my kids are completely disrespectful, I kept asking myself how I can reconcile the two.
This book has awesome insight and will definitely help me but I thought he could have at least added a few words about when boundaries need to be set.
This is a book worth reading, but it leaves me with questions.
a quote from the book: "Many of our attempts to correct others, even when we believe we are offering constructive criticism, are really attempts to attack them by demonstrating their wrongness and our rightness." Quote from: Love Is Letting Go Of Fear by Gerald G. Jampolsky, M.D.I found this book very insightful and helpful to understand a new way of looking at our own actions and thoughts.
I did not expect to have this happen with this book, but it helped me let go of a grudge I've been holding for two years, which was making me sick even physically. Definitely a nice set of rules to live by, I am applying this wherever and whenever I can, it really makes life easier.
Great Book! Came right at the exact moment that I needed to learn something important.
This book changed my life. It taught me a lot about love and forgiveness. It helps me to love the small and simple joys of life.
The author is quick to point out that he is not speaking of romantic love. This book discusses the love and understanding that can be applied to everyone within and outside of your social circle.
Ho hum
This book got me through the 1980's. It is simple, to the point self help that makes sense.
This is an important and inspiring book with the message – let go of fear and love everyone.The titles of the 12 lessons are from The Course in MiraclesThey are:1) All that I give is given to myself.2) Forgiveness is the key to happiness.3) I am never upset for the reason I think.4) I am determined to see things differently.5) I can escape from the world I see by giving up attack thoughts.6) I am not the victim of the world I see.7) Today I will judge nothing that occurs.8) This instant is the o
This is an important and inspiring book with the message – let go of fear and love everyone.The titles of the 12 lessons are from The Course in MiraclesThey are:1)	All that I give is given to myself.2)	Forgiveness is the key to happiness.3)	I am never upset for the reason I think.4)	I am determined to see things differently.5)	I can escape from the world I see by giving up attack thoughts.6)	I am not the victim of the world I see.7)	Today I will judge nothing that occurs.8)	This instant is the only time there is.9)	The past is over – it can touch me not.10)	I could see peace instead of this.11)	I can elect to change all thoughts that hurt.12)	I am responsible for what I see.Jerry Jampolsky writes in a personal style and presents inspiring stories of people who have transformed their life for the better by reading the book.Jerry is involved with Attitudinal Healing, which is self-healing based on the principle that it is not other people or situations that cause us to be upset but our own thoughts and attitudes concerning those things.
Jampolsky shares some great anecdotes for how he has overcome his own (self-made) problems by giving love as per his recommendations in the book, and these are what I will remember from reading this book.
He also has a skill for capturing practical one-liners for how to develop your own love-giving practice, such as "I am responsible for what I see." The other explanatory text of each one-liner were well-explained, albeit a bit repetitive, and I thought it was a bit high-level to keep around as a reference.
I read this book after my therapist recommended it to me.
This book teaches you about mindfulness and putting yourself in others positions and seeing them as innocent.
Before reading I was skeptical and thought its just a book it cant really change my perspective on life.
this book helped me to have better relationships with family, friends coworkers and my love life.
The best thing I truly learned in this book is to just live in the now and free your mind.
you can not possibly love something with all of your might when fear is in the way.
A lot of the ideas are repeated over and over which I'm pretty sure is for the readers benefit.
At points it gets a bit into hippie talk that I didn't fully grasp, but overall I got lots of new ideas and ways of thinking from this book.
It's full of wise tidbits that when applied to your own life, can definitely create positive change.Unlike lots of books of this 'type', the author's message was very clear and was laid out on every page.
You never had to wonder what he was actually getting at or what you were supposed to do in order to change.
As far as practical how-to guides go, this is worth a read for those just beginning to let go of anxiety, depression and the like, and moving into a more conscious state of being. For those already well into their journey, there is nothing profound in this, just a simple reminder to truly be in the present and remove judgment/projections. The cartoons are heartwarming and speak to the visually-oriented person. The real-life examples are relatable for all, and help provide empathic understanding.
The only reason I’m giving this four stars and not five is I wish there was a little more depth into the subject matter. The author kept repeating the same phrases over and over again without giving more details. Having said that, I love this book. I can’t wait to read more about attitudinal healing. Changing ones thoughts truly is the key to becoming happier with self, others and the world. Highly recommend this to anyone looking to change their outlook on life and becoming a happier more satisfied person.
Straight forward with an applicable system that in fact gets you somewhere, nothing new from what some may have learned experienced or read but quite a nice refresh of ones philosophy vis-à-vis the concept of Love and forgiveness from a social behavioral point of view that meets the religious aspect in an indirect method of spirituality.Audible version has 2 parts so start the book at chapter 5 then listen to the chapters 1-4 for the interview with Dr. Jampolsky
it's one of the books that you should read multiple times to take full grasp of the "new" concepts it presents, to me those concepts are only a reminder, because I believe we all experience this inner peace once in a while but we probably dont know how we did it, this book gives you the tools to experience this inner peace intentionally and in all circumstances, sure it takes a lot of practice to achieve that, but it's worth it.
