https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/257453.The_Time_of_Man
With this novel, I feel like i've just been on a nice trip.
The novel is slow, almost gratingly so, but at the same time I feel that the level of detail that it presented was beautifully intimate.
This is bottled life, captured amongst the Kentucky sharecroppers in the 1920's and preserved in these pages.
Even more, it's the story of overcoming life's hardships and discovering who you are; identity and loss play a significant role in the story.
Time of Man throws storytelling conventions out the window and goes for a pure, unfiltered approach to perception of reality.
"The rocks fell where she laid them with a faint flat sound, and the afternoon seemed very still back of the dove calls and the cries of he plovers, back of a faint dying phrase, "in the time of man."This is such a beautiful book.
Apparently it was lost for a time until 1963 when Robert Penn Warren thankfully rediscovered it.This book takes place very close to my home--just about an hour away in fact, in Nelson, Washington and Spencer Counties Kentucky.
The characters are the poorest of the poor.The book centers around Ellen Chesser and it is her story.

This was a poetic and wonderful story of a woman born and trapped into a the sharecropping way of life in the 20s in Tennessee.
The language was a first hard to read but after awhile I was used to it and it made me laugh out loud at some of the arguments and/or discussions - repeating themselves over and over again.
The author portrayed the isolation and nomadic lifestyle in a way that I felt that I was living right there with them.
Given a glimpse into the life back then, I'm glad I live in today's time period!
I will write a full review of this book in a little while, but for now, let me just say that it is a great work of art detailing tennant farming life in the early 1920s. While I can barely imagine the lonliness and heartache associated with the lifestyle, EMR does a fantastic job pulling you into that world and leaving you with the same emotions and despair as her characters might feel. Beautifully written, complex story of a simple life.
It’s very wordy and a long slog, but there’s an interesting story buried in it. And if you’re someone who enjoys getting lost in well-evoked setting, you’ll be in clover. This is a coming of age story set in rural Kentucky in the early 20th Century. It follows Ellen Chesser from 13 years old until late middle age. Ellen’s introspection is well handled as she matures throughout the course of the book.
I loved this book. It reminded me si much of my maternal grandma and grandpa, who were tenant farmers in Missouri in the early twentieth century. The writing evokes the sights, smells and feeling of being in the country, poignantly recalling to my mind weekends spent on the farm. Even the poverty is the same. A beautifully written book.
I've had this book on my "bucket list" of reading for many years, so I am glad to have read it. At times it was tedious reading and at times so awesomely poetic. The last quarter of the book was worth, I think, of the slow beginning of the read.
This is a beautiful book.
I reviewed this at my blog.
