https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/224740.One_Lonely_Night
In a clean, well-lighted place, Mickey Spillane, Ayn Rand and Ernest Hemingway sit drinking cocktails and talking about, among many things, Spillane’s 1951 novel One Lonely Night.Ernest: So what’s it about, Mick?Mickey: What’s it about, Ernie?
I win, I beat him!Ayn: A creative man is motivated by the desire to achieve, not by the desire to beat others.Mickey: There it is, here’s to you and your big prize.
You’ll never be happy.Ernest: Happiness in intelligent people is the rarest thing I know.Ayn: So Mickey and I are not happy, not intelligent?
Spillane is rarely given credit for good writing, but this first chapter will knock your socks off.On the surface this is a typical Mike Hammer novel.
That underpinning begins from the opening moments, one lonely night on a bridge as Mike Hammer remembers what a judge said about him, and wonders if it’s true.All that rumination takes a detour on said bridge, however, when Hammer comes to the rescue of a girl with his trusted .45.
Yet the fact that Spillane ran a thread through One Lonely Night about Mike Hammer wondering if his soul was as black as those he fought, is heady stuff when you think about it.

The inner-monologuing and third person narration is more frequent than in previous volumes, but it works with the character, and 1950s NYC once again comes alive as a character in its own right, with a plot just as relevant now as the day it was printed.
With a flying fist and a .45 loaded with slugs, Mike Hammer is back to smash the commies!The usual violence and the licentious sexism is in place - although in this book his rage at the world reaches almost psychotic levels.I wouldn't recommend it to everyone, but it is a brutally effective thriller.
The one where the baddies are communists. Interesting period piece from the 1950s but pretty dated now. Not quite the standard of his earlier books.
After an almost 50 year hiatus from Mickey Spillane novels, I've picked up a few lately.
Gritty Mike Hammer bears little resemblance to Stacey Keach's character in the old TV series.
This guy got psychologically twisted in the horrors of jungle warfare in the Pacific theater in WWII and stayed that way.
This book also gives a glimpse of the hatred for communism which was intense and prevalent in the early years of the cold war for those not old enough to remember it.
Spillane's tales are always entertaining reads and reflections of a simpler time in which there were fewer shades of grey.
This is some hard-boiled, rough-talking, no wasted words kind of PI...Mike Hammer's all that and more! And his dame, Velda, is a gun-toting, hard-case herself...yet feminine and sweet too!Hammer's all action, and I dig that about him! Need more like him today.It's a fun, wild ride, to be sure, when he's at the helm!
Communism. Meh. Never been that interested in the “red scare”, even when it came to the blacklist in Hollywood. That’s just me. Aside from that, Spillane delivers the gritty narrative, and the violence is much heavier here. Mike Hammer is the vigilante you don’t want to piss off.
3.5*
Although Hammer eventually gets a client, he gets involved simply because he stumbled on murder and death.The book opens with Spillane's patented spare prose that has Hammer walking on a lonely bridge after a judge tore into him for doing what organized law enforcement could not: putting an end to murderous scum.
"The eyes swept from her black pumps to legs and body and shoulders that were almost too good to be real." And, when someone messes with Velda: "A .45 can make an awful nasty sound in a quiet room when you pull the hammer back.
The Spillane work I knew was limited to the film "Kiss me deadly", and the 80's TV-series "Mike Hammer" featuring actor Stacey Keach.
Hadn't read a single Spillane book until now, just associated his work with hard-boiled detective type of stuff, which I generally am a big fan of (Willeford, Chandler, Thompson, Hammett).
There are echoes in "Kiss me deadly"; the idea of world-altering ideologies and political power play, and the unbearable fear of letting the enemy get the upper hand, classic stuff, but this is pretty shallow stuff compared to other "pulp" writers of the era.
I was really looking forward to enjoying my first Mickey Spillane book. I'm still waiting. This one was awful. Personally, I found it nearly illiterate. He's got only the tiniest fragment of the style of Chandler and Hammett but without even a sliver of their talent. I won't be reading another Spillane for a long, long time.
More commie moping time about a trial over something communist related.Hammer thinks he sees commies making a cash payoff at the trial.The socialite is also at the trial, and Mike has spanking fantasies about her, thinking she fingered him for the attempted assassinations.
Mike laughs as he has the MacGuffin papers, and things look bad for the commies.Velda is sent off to investigate the psycho brother's/suicide girl's hospital stay.
This gives us several pages of a Mike-mope about how the judge is right and he is kill-happy.Inside the burnt-out factory the commies have the naked Velda tied up.
And in One Lonely Night, he took on the most sacred of liberal positions — that Communists never infiltrated American government.Unfortunately, Mike Hammer’s anti-Communism does not stray far from the simplicity of a comic book hero.
When it’s merely presented as a contest of good versus evil, crafty liars will conquer and lord over honest men who try to mind their own business.Given the significant stylistic problem with Spillane’s two-dimensional characterization and the serious moral problem with his protagonist’s vigilantism, a neutral reader might be tempted to abandon the book early on.
This was supposed to be a palette cleanser - just a fun book to sit back and watch Mike Hammer kick some ass but it did nothing for me.Mike Hammer gets caught up in communist groups and murder. It felt dated and held no interest for me.Oh well.
And though this wasn't my first experience with the PI stereotype (probably that credit goes to cartoons), I've since pictured that same, pugnacious, whiskered face (whom I now know was Stacy Keach: what an inspired choice) and that heavy trencher.Years later, I came across the Economist's obituary for a writer named Mickey Spillane.
The show came back to me, a few pieces in the cultural landscape lined up, and I filed away his name and his work in that to-do region that's brimming with other books and movies and hobbies and what not.
Never mind that it was self-defense, the judge had made no bones about his dislike for the PI.Mike first hears the hurrying footsteps, the harsh breathing, and sees a young woman hurrying up to him, terror in her face.
He's not fast enough!The young woman, seeing the look of a wolf in Mike's face, fears she's in a worse predicament and suddenly flings herself over the bridge.
The cigarette pack has a similar card and arouses Mike's curiosity.He soon learns it's an identification of the Communist party and finds himself in the middle of a plot to take over the country.
The first chapter - which is amazing and intense - has Mike Hammer stomping across a bridge, furious after being lectured by a judge for killing a crook in self defense.
descriptive of the muck Hammer has to wade through.The Commies wind up making a big mistake, though.
And most of that mistake is visible on the cover to the book.
And it does something to Hammer, sets him off, and leads to one of the more hyper-violent vendettas in print.The judge was right after all.Mike Hammer couldn't give a damn.
I was just thinking how I got a kick out of the Mike Hammer TV series as a kid in the 80s and how I've never read much noir so I tried it out.
Spillane has a certain wit and his style might be described as Hemingway, extra, extra lite.
I found Hammer to be more of an amusing, comic book tough guy rather than a gritty, no nonsense detective.
He might as well have described the communists as having horns and a tail.
This is the kind of book you can enjoy if you accept it for what it is, kind of like the Hammer TV series itself.
Such a gloriously trashy book.
Mickey Spillane was one of the first of the American pulp fiction novelists, and you can already see a lot of the typical features of the genre popping up.
Mike Hammer is a gruff renegade PI from Manhattan who ends up discovering a Communist cell and kills all the "Reds" he can...
A lot of the narration read exactly like a film noir script, which I guess is the effect he was going for anyway.
All in all, it was definitely a fun read, but by no means was it a substantial piece of literature.
I had to set some things aside. OMG Communism!!!!111!!! But what writing. This is not a book to approach ironically, hipsterishly - you just have to throw yourself into it and ride. It's like sitting inside the brain of Marv from Sin City: violent, justified, grim, and maybe not altogether wise, but undeniably an experience.
This would not be the last book of Mickey Spillane that I am going to read. I will buy it if I have to. His writing is amazingly great very economical, straightforward, and to the point. Mike Hammer, was summoned by an FBI friend to infiltrate the Communinst Party meeting, and recapture a very important document that could save the country from the commies.
Eat lead, commies!!!
If you like your crime fiction hardboiled, then Spillane’s Mike Hammer is up there with the best (or should that be worst).
BOOK 136 - Mid-20th Century North American Crime Readathon - Round 5Amazingly relevant: a politician utilizes Russian resources and money to fund his career.HOOK - 3 stars: "Nobody ever walked across the bridge, not on a night like this.
PACE - 5: Sensational.PLOT - 4: Perhaps this novel is just too relevant: one of the reasons I read older fiction is to escape the news of the day.
A senator (Lee Deamer) campaigns as such: "...if elected his first order would be to sign warrants of arrest for certain political joes who are draining the state dry." (Don't we hear these same words/campaign promises often?) Deamer is using a Russian mob, their money and resources, to fund his fight for ultimate power.
The fourth book written by Mickey Spillane (published in 1951) and the second Spillane I have read after I, the Jury.
We learn early on that Mike Hammer's just been let off by a judge who tells him he's the lowest of the low.
Spillane keeps the action racing along at a fast pace.
He's also much more vicious and vindictive in this book.
But give the guy some credit - he's just doing what he can, cleaning up the scum of society that somehow evade capture through proper channels - all the while keeping himself one step ahead of the Grim Reaper.
I read a review of this that was done as a conversation between Ayn Rand, Mickey Spillane, & Ernest Hemingway.
Hemingway was the hero, and Rand & Spillane were huge jerks.
But the characterization of Communists was extraordinarily two-dimensional, and the female characters were preposterous.
They were all beautiful, and they all wanted nothing more than to sleep with the sociopathic main character.
The main character kept seeming like he was struggling about whether he loved to kill people or not.
And after a bit of perfunctory soul searching (and a LOT of drinking), he decides that he does love killing people and that it's OK.
Quizá la novela más estúpida y delirante del bueno de Mike, que ya es decir. Más de la mitad del libro son parrafadas furibundas del tío sobre los comunistas. Me recuerda a John Cleese en aquel sketch de Monty Python's Flying Circus. Pero bueno, la ambientación comic-noir y la psicopatía del personaje siguen siendo encantadoras
2.5 at best. Worst if the Hammer takes so far. sSaw the bad guy early and the writing was just too melodramatic, over the top tripe even for hard-boiled pulp.
