https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/833060.Smoky_the_Cow_Horse
It seemed to me that James believed that people with dark skin were worth less than horses.A little while after I thought this, the narrator pretty much goes and says the same thing himself.He calls the guy a “scrub of a degenerate halfbreed and not fit to be classed among humans.”There’s another scene later in the book.
(It would seem from reading this book that white people didn’t beat horses.
(Smoky wouldn’t be if it wasn’t for that medal) A lot of the good children’s books from this time were coming out over seas.
But 300+ pages of double negatives and other grammar mistakes was hard to wade through.As others have said, it does get more interesting in the last 100 pages (there's a story), but it's still not that great; and there's a dreadful racial stereotype (evil "halfbreed" Mexican/African American, always referred to as "the halfbreed" or "the breed") that I can't really write off as being "the times", because it's so pointed and vile.
Others have said it's sexist, but I don't agree about that--the one female character is a well-meaning "horse girl", and I thought she was depicted with surprising insight and sympathy.I shudder to think what parents and teachers would say if a book with such bad grammar was awarded a Newbery today.
I first read this book in the fifth grade (oh, so long ago...) and I loved it.
I'm not sure I'd still love it quite so much if I was reading it for the first time as an adult, as I haven't read it since, but I look on it with fond memories.If you have a horse crazy son or daughter, I would definitely add this book to their library, right next to The Black Stallion, Black Beauty, Misty of Chincoteague and My Friend Flicka.
Although you might want to have a parent-y talk with them about racism, as the references to 'the half-breed'--the major villain of the book--obviously are very racist.
"There was so much life wrapped up in that pony's hide that it was mighty hard for him to settle down and behave...he sometimes had to bust out and do things that wasn't at all proper..." —Smoky the Cowhorse, P.47 "The poor (horse) had sure got a reason to be mean, and I guess he's at the point where he figgers no human is his friend any more." —Smoky the Cowhorse, P.
229 Wow. My expectations for a book with the Newbery Medal on the cover are always sky high, but Smoky the Cowhorse meets those expectations and more.
I am lucky to have read Smoky the Cowhorse.
"For that pony had got tangled up in the cowboy's heartstrings a heap more than that cowboy wanted to let on, even to himself.
I read this book to my little girl (who is now 26) when she was in the elementary(first learning to read).It's a good horse book telling the life of Smoky and that part I think is what fascinates children.How he starts off shy and timid.But when he's moved to the working ranch He toughens up gets stronger.
My friends, under the influence of wine, laughed.
Later, one of them who is a really GREAT friend bought me an original copy from an antique store - which I treasure.
There is actually a Will James Society in Montana, so I think I am not crazy when I say that this book contributed greatly to my childhood development of EMPATHY.
Only Glenn Beck thinks empathy is a bad word.
If you haven't read this book, I recommend reading it to your children, ages 10 and above because it is sad.
This book is about a cow horse named smokey (it's written with western slang so you feel like your part of the book.
It all starts with an adventurous colt named smokey.
He is part of a loving herd along with his mom.
Later in the book Smokey gets rounded up in a corral.
The bronc buster chooses him out of the herd.
The bronc buster (Clint) tames smokey so well that when Clint passed out on a morning run Smokey carried him back to the ranch!
To find out more read the book , I highly recommend this book to anyone and everyone!
The first reproductions of James' oils.
His story isn't bad either; sort of standard Black Beauty West but for a kid's book it's all good stuff.
But then there was this jolt at page 257: "Say cowboy," he finally says, "don't scatter that hombre's remains too much; you know we got to keep record of that kind the same as if it was a white man..." Pretty much an accepted view circa 1926.
His art and writing both suffered as the alcohol took over his life.When I was a little kid; Cowboy was King.
First edition copies of his books are a tad expensive.
Back during my horse book fetish of my early teens, I may have enjoyed this a bit.
It does have a very slow beginning, spending the first 150 pages on just repetitive trips across the range.
Unfortunately, not recommended for racism throughout the second half of the book.
You can be treated to the word halfbreed on about every other page and a rant from the sheriff about having to treat 'halfbreeds' as it they were white.
Now, if this was edited and abridged I would say it could be enjoyable.
But, it would only take a few changes throughout to be enjoyable for modern children.
I definitely remember reading this book before (well before I had goodreads) and liking it fine. Trying to read it again, I hated it. It was boring, the dialect bugged me, and I am not a horse girl. Oh god, I am so sorry for disagreeing with Kaia about how horrible this book was!
- This is the first Newbery Award Winner that I've read this year that I really feel deserved the award.- I loved this book.
I got SO attached to Smoky.
- Smoky had an incredible journey.
There were so many ups and downs, and I kept hoping that Clint and Smoky would be reunited.
- I admit it, I cried.
a lot.
I finished this on a Saturday morning, and I couldn't stop crying.
I cried all through breakfast, and morning chores.
- I don't think this book is for everyone, but it touched my animal loving heart.
My grandmother told me stories of Robert Louis Stephenson also being deathly ill as a child and how he wiled away the time with making mountains of his knees and valleys with the covers that he could make up stories with his tin soldiers and others.
I know my grandmother's stories and the inspiration of how Robert Louis Stephenson coped in childhood helped me to do the same - whether when ill and near death or lying in painful shambles after a three hour beating - - - One of the books my Grandmother gifted me with was and original copy of Will James' Smoky The Cow Horse.
After a couple of years, he is taken to the Rocking R Ranch where he is trained by a thirty-year-old cowboy named Clint to be a cowhorse.
Clint, who is especially fond of the mouse-colored horse, always tries to check on Smoky through each winter, but one year he is detained for several reasons, and when he finally goes out on the range he finds that the cowhorse, as well as the whole herd with which he has been hanging out, is gone.
In the movie Tex the teacher tells Tex, "You can't do two book reports on Smokey The Cow Horse." He says, "But I read it twice." I grew up in central California.
In the third grade (I think) the teacher read a few pages a day from the book.
Reading it all these years later was an emotional trip Dow memory lane.
I'm not sure the teacher read every word.
Even now a hundred years later I still was silently urging the cowboy Clint to rescue Smokey sooner than he did.
This book holds up amazingly well for having been first published in 1926.
I was actually surprised that I liked the book.
The first part appeals to my environmental nature by explaining what life is like for wild mustangs out in the wild.
I love the descriptions!
The second part appeals to my love of cowboys in the Old West.
I loved the descriptions of branding, roping, cattle drives, round ups, and tales of ranch life.
I liked (that might not be the right word) tales of what happened to Smoky after the breed stole him.
They all loved and cried over this book.
But I liked it a lot.
The first 150 pages or so run long--it's basically a running description of the day-to-day life of Smoky the horse.
A run-in with wolves is somewhat exciting, and the processing of breaking Smoky by Clint was interesting, but it kind of gets depressing from there.
The one shining moment is when Old Tom tries to take Smoky from Clint and is thrown repeatedly--but what follows is a sad tale of being stolen, abused, put in a rodeo, abused again, etc.
Even though it has a "happy ending," I still felt really sorry for Smoky most of the time and just wished the humans would have let him remain a wild mustang.

It took me a while to get past the cowboy dialect of the narrator -- to stop correcting the grammar in my head as I read -- and to stop hearing Morgan Freeman's voice doing the narrating (yes, Morgan Freeman speaking in cowboy dialect was very distracting for me!), but once I got past all that, the narrative voice added a a wonderful, heartfelt perspective to the story.
Told from the point of view of a range horse, it shows the depth of the relationship between a cowboy and his horse and makes you want to immediately hug any animal in your life that is important to you.
Smoky the Cow Horse tells the story of that unique, deep bond that sometimes happens between a human and his pet--although "pet" is a misnomer here. This story is stunning and beautiful, the narrator's unique sit-back-and-let-me-tell-you-a-tale voice patiently tying your heartstrings to Smoky. And--patience is what you need with this book because James takes the time to really develop the relationship between the reader and Smoky. It's worth it. A beautiful story of true love and it's ability to heal even the deepest hurts. Beautiful.
I never saw a mouse that was the rich black color shown on the cover of this book and in the line drawings within the book.
So I did not like that Smoky was continually called a mouse colored horse.
I also did not like the old cowboy grammer.
I cannot imagine any modern child I know being able to get through this book.
Near the end, when Smoky said exactly what I think my horse on few and far between trail rides is saying about me, I had to laugh and think that Clint, Smoky, and Will James really did know what each other was thinking.
This is one of the bigger books, and it started off kind of slow, which can make a person worry. How fascinating can a book written from the perspective of a horse get? But around halfway through, as Smoky starts to really face peril, I found myself unable to put the book down. I was fully engaged. So while there were a few slow bits, it's not nearly as rough as I thought it would be.
What a writer really. A true to the time story that ranks with all the great Horse writers. This is one of those authers that is lost to the modern generation. The story was engaging and fun. The views on the mexican population were racest but it is a book of it's time period. The edition I read had the auther's illstrations as well and they were just beautiful.
We read this a couple years ago and my boy who was about 6 at the time loved it. I enjoyed it as well although I found it difficult to read out loud because the grammar the characters use is terrible! But that really adds to the fun of the story. Its follows the life of Smoky through good times and bad. I would recommend this to anyone who likes horses or longs for the old west.
this is my second favorite book...i really love the horse..it went through a lot of trouble from the day it was born...i even hated the people who wanted to hurt smoky...smoky got a lot of names and have been to a lot of places and he was hurt...but i was really glad when he meet up with his partner again at the end...i even cried..it's no joke...
I just finished this book because I'm reading all of the Newberry Honor Books thanks to Tammy's great list of them. I loved this book. It is heart-warming and exciting and funny and sweet. It's got some great life lessons in it from the perspective of a good little pony named Smoky.
I can't tell if this book is 3 stars or 2 stars. The 3 Newbery books before Smoky were so hard for me to read, that Smoky seemed so good. I wish it were 200 hundred pages shorter.
My all time favorite book. I have one of the originals I read from time to time. I love westerns and all of his books. His artwork is awesome!
I have loved this book more than any other ever since I first read it at about ten. I have two copies of it that are at least 50 years. I have probably read it 15 times.
A great book, when read at the right age.
Then his life is changed one year and he has some sad and some great adventures.
Yes, this characterization can be seen as racist stereotyping, and that is something I will discuss with my kids when we read it.
But the language in the book is more than the way a cowboy talks.
So, yes, there are racist stereotypes written into the plot, but they are not huge blemishes on the novel, and I wouldn't even bring them up if it weren't for the other reviews I read.
Smoky the Cowhorse reminded me a great deal of Black Beauty, although it comes nowhere close to Black Beauty’s lasting power and “classicness” and, of course, the point of view is not the horse but rather either various cowboys or an omniscient narrator.
It’s written as if someone from that time period and from that area was telling the story, so a lot of the terminology is unfamiliar, since it deals with herding and roping and things like that, and it’s in the accent and dialect of, presumably, a cowboy, which means there’s a lot of “figgering” and verb/subject disagreement and other things to make a grammar teacher frustrated.
