https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6361871-the-pioneer-woman-cooks
She's gobs and gobs richer than her fans (most likely richer than just about everyone in Oklahoma), home schools with two teachers (I bet you thought she did the teachin' too, dinja?) had/has nannies for her kids as they were growin' up, had a ghostwriter and staff work on her cookbooks and recipes, clears easily a cool million in ad revenue from her blog and let's face it talks way too much about how she loves her husband and how hot he is in his Wranglers which personally makes me think he's a dud in the bedroom, otherwise, who are you trying (sorry, tryin') to convince by yappin' about it all the time?
This book is 1 part of the most basic recipies you'll ever need and 15 parts pictures of her family and horses. It's more of a love letter to her kids than an actual cook book, but if you need to know that to make eggs in a basket you put egg on toast, go ahead and buy this.And with all the photos of horses throughout the book, there was not ONE horse recipe. What a jip.
In this cookbook, we learn a lot about Ree Drummond.
The recipes include pictures and easy to follow instructions.
In fact, the step by step instructions each have their own picture of that particular step.
I understand her blog, which I have never visited, is set up this same way with lots of visual instruction.
This is very true and since I didn’t really watch Pioneer Woman or visit the blog, I was unaware these would be heavy recipes.
The recipes I tried from this book were absolutely delicious but not a cookbook I could cook from often.
What you aren't told is that her husband is something like the eighth largest land owner in the U.S. She has staff on many levels.
Lots of butter and chocolate and cheese and carbs.
Nothing for me to prepare, but good recipes for the masses who eat in this manner.Every time I come across her, all I can think is how vastly different her life would be with a farm, four children and poverty-level income.
The charm would evaporate like a stick of melted butter over corn muffins.
I watch the Food Network, I drool over online recipes imagining what things would taste like.
Every now and then I'll pick up a larger-than-life gorgeously photographed cookbook with all the best intentions in the world of taking it home and actually putting it to use this time in the kitchen rather than just feeding my porn addiction as I drool over all the pretty pictures.
Drummond's recipes are not only simple country fare, but she presents each dish step by step accompanied by splendid photography so that even an underachiever like me can get motivated (and succeed) in the kitchen.
So later I e-borrowed this book since the fish-out-of-water-cookbook idea sounded interesting...and was immediately confused.
Seriously, I know what bacon looks like just...sitting there, I don't need several pictures of the bacon.
But okay whatever, clicking (repeatedly) eventually gets me to another recipe.Because I'd never heard the term "Egg in the Hole," I actually got excited when Ree explains that she had to learn how to make them from her husband's grandmother before he would go through with the wedding.
And then I realized it took four Kindle pages and seven photos to give me a recipe for an egg fried in the middle of a slice of bread.
She makes good, hearty meals for hard working ranchers and a family full of growing kids, so if you're looking for salad recipes this is not the place to start.The grouping of this book was great -- I found it very easy to find a recipe for whatever my purposes were, and I enjoyed that her penchant for photography shone through, weaving recipes with her family and life story pictures.
My only complaint (if you can call it that) is her "butter and grease" heavy mentality, that hearkens to a somewhat untrained Paula Deen attitude.The photos in this book are worth the read by themselves - she takes each recipe and breaks it down step by step into pictures so that you would have to be a trained ape to screw it up.
Her quick wit makes it a pleasure to read even the most mundane of daily tasks.
Ree is obviously a visual person (something I appreciate) because her recipes are shown with tons of step-by-step pictures.
I think the whole reason I buy cookbooks to begin with are the pictures...
Ree also has pictures of her family, friends, and a little bit of life on the ranch.
A few of my family's favorite recipes are: perfect pot roast (awesome), linguine with clam sauce (to.die.for.), & Patsy's blackberry cobbler (oh so yummy).
It doesn't sound good to me, but if she's making it, I think it's gotta be good!
Ree Drummond combines her love of family, food and ranching in a beautiful homage to the people, places and things that she loves.
Ree isn't you typical ranch wife, she still craves sushi and Starbucks, but she was determined to make a home for her Marlboro man and her brood of children, so why not grab the bull by the horns and do the best that a city loving woman can do.
Love this book and I look forward to reading more about her adventures on the Pioneer Woman blog.
A few good recipes, But Instead of 1/3 or more of the book taken up by pictures of cowboys, and cute animals (some they plan on killing and eating later) it would have been nice to have more actual recipes. I don't need a full page picture of her husband's butt in any of my cookbooks; a little self indulgent to me.
Absolutely beautifully done book, practically a picture on every page. I love how there is a picture for every step in the recipes. (That is a BIG plus!) I would like to give 5 stars, but honestly, many of the recipes, while not bad, are just too mediocre, (Huevos Hyacinth and Egg-In-The-Hole to name just two). And let's be honest, Ree Drummonds' whole shtick as The Pioneer Woman is dubious at best.
In The Pioneer Woman Cooks, her cookbook slash photographic memoir, Ree brings to life the story of her city upbringing with her farm woman reality, currently wrangling four kids and a husband on a working cattle ranch in Oklahoma.
Mesmerizing photographs of family members, get-togethers and muddy farm work blend well with humorous anecdotes — and serve to show you why her family is so hungry!Cute, ranch-laden, photo-intense asides with amusing anecdotes leave you longing for a house on the prairie in a way that 'Little House on the Prairie' episodes never did.
Sliced bread, butter (the author loves cooking with butter—this is not a healthy cooking cookbook), eggs, salt, and pepper.
Red potatoes, onion, vegetable oil, salt, and pepper (the author likes to add bacon fat; although that adds a lot of taste, I’d leave it out!).
Some dinner (or lunch, if you prefer) recipes that are likely to tempt me to make them.
Chili, cube steak hearty sandwich, macaroni and cheese.Supper (or dinner, if you prefer).
But for those who like hearty dishes, this would be a useful source of recipes.
She’s a ranch wife and manages to maintain an amazing blog, homeschool four kids, take gorgeous pictures and create a beautiful cookbook.I was mesmerized by The Pioneer Woman Cooks by Ree Drummond when I got it.
In this wonderful cookbook Ree explains how she became The Pioneer Woman, shows a little of ranch life and shares some of her great recipes.
There are only one or two recipes in here that don’t appeal to either one of us.One of the great things about the recipes in The Pioneer Woman Cooks is all of the pictures – there is a photograph for each step of the recipe.
pros: she's very upfront about what this is--high calorie food, very basic, meat and potatoes.cons: this collection of recipes is some of the most basic stuff you'll ever see.
there's literally recipes for meatloaf and mashed potatoes.
ridiculous.all her food is extremely meat and potatoes midwest themed.
she presents herself as a simple rancher's wife, when it's clear that she does not do all the things that she claims to in this book.
For a book that has 10 pictures of her husband's ranch hands, there's no mention of the army that must support her.
Ree combines plenty of recipes, including the stories behind them, with her own gorgeous photography and interesting details of her ranch life.
I love cookbooks, and every time I get a new one, especially one with many pictures, I look through the entire thing as soon as I have the time.
However, I can honestly say that this is the first cookbook I have ever READ the entire way through and couldn't put down.
Now, I have yet to actually cook anything out of the book, but I have made several of Ree's recipes from her blog and have never been disappointed.
I first stumbled across The Pioneer Woman blog through her photography section and immediately was fascinated with her writing and her life.
This book showcases her unique style of teaching recipes.
This would be great for a beginning cook to actually see what the food should look like as it is cut, cooked, presented.
It's also great for an experienced cook because the food itself is delicious and packed full of flavor.
She also writes stories to go along with the recipes, so it reads well even as just a book.
For an example of her recipe writing style, check out her blog at ThePioneerWoman.com.
which is both a good thing and a bad thing.
I've only recently started reading her blog recently, and knowing that she has a blog, I'm a little disappointed at how few recipes are in the book.
She had soo many recipes w/ pictures taken at her disposal, so I expected more recipes (especially considering how big the book is).
So that's the bad, but there is good!
And I love knowing that none of the pictures were taken by a professional photographer and that the food wasn't artistically enhanced by someone.
I happened to watch an episode of The Pioneer Woman and thought that my family might like her simple, easy recipes.
So I downloaded one of her cookbooks on my Kindle and starting leisurely bookmarking recipes while watching my children play on the beach.
I'd bought this cookbook for some easy recipes, not to go through some lady's family photo album!
But then I started reading about those pictures, and was charmed.
Ree Drummond takes her love of food and family and shares it in such a humble, humorous way I have changed my initial opinion of being ripped off to feeling like I bought a little gem.
I love Ree's blog.
I read through the whole book in one sitting.
The book is colorful and the pictures are beautiful, BUT - most of it is already on her blog.
I was hoping for all new recipes and pictures, but time and time again I would turn the page and see a recipe or pictures that are already on her blog.
For a recipe book it doesn't have very many recipes.
I think that this book would be great introduction for someone that knows nothing about Ree or her life, but for me it was a letdown.
I got this for Christmas, and sat down and read it. Yes, read a cookbook! Everything that I love about ThePioneerWoman.com is also in her cookbook. She loves her husband, she loves her children, and she loves her life even thought is has hardship and difficulty. The photography is wonderful, the recipes are top notch REAL food with interesting twists, and her humor is an added spice!Get this, read it, and cook from it!!!
I remember when I first stumbled upon Ree's now-famous website a couple of years ago: I was blown away by the photography and how funny she is.But that got boring.And she never improved.The recipes are boring and most of them are available on her website. And I'm sick of her never referring to her husband by his real name. This isn't Sex and the City, Ree. If I had to describe this in one word? Amateur at best.
I actually sat down and read this cookbook cover to cover, then I tried a few of the recipes and they got raves from my hungry crew so I figured I should review it. The recipes in this book had ingredients that I had in my pantry, which seems to never happen with other cookbooks. No nonsense food with lots of beef and potatoes, but that is just like my family likes it. Love the pictures that showed the step-by-step instructions, very helpful.
Got my copy and love the layout of the cookbook. It's classic Pioneer Woman and after scanning the book quickly, it looks like there are lots of wonderful recipes. Beautifully photographed. A wonderful Christmas gift idea for anyone who loves to cook. Ree Drummond has hit a homerun with her recipes and life stories in my opinion.
I had to buy it. Wish me luck on actually cooking! The writing and photos are amazing though, I may attempt to mimic her culinary skills.
This book has lots of great comfort food recipes! I also love the story she tells along the book
Anyone who picked up this cookbook and expected a straightforward, recipes-only affair must not be all that familiar with the internet presence that is Pioneer Woman.Each of her recipes have step-by-step photos documenting the process, which can be tremendously helpful for beginning cooks.
Drummond takes all the photos herself, and it has been fun to watch the evolution of her photography reading her site over the years.
If the success marker of a cookbook is making the reader hungry, then she’s done her job.While I enjoyed her asides about daily life, I do wish that more of the material had not already been published on the blog.
The diet that my husband and I follow for our diabetes management gives us one day of cheating.
She started out as a website and her forte is step by step pictures, and being pretty damn funny too.
We've tried the chicken spaghetti, chicken fried steak, and her chocolate sheet cake.
I make this pretty much every cheat day.
This is not diet food.
I can make every recipe in the book and document my glorious well deserved weight gain.But I guess I'll just stick to cheat days and a life of chocolate sheet cake.
And now I am enjoying her first book The Pioneer Woman Cooks: Recipes from an Accidental Country Girl.
More than just a cookbook, this book gives you a look into daily life on a working cattle ranch.
I love the humor and warmth with which it is written, and the only drawbacks that I can see are the lack of nutritional information (which I always appreciate) and the lack of less "hearty" fare (since I'm trying to get myself eating more healthfully once again, and this book is a little heavy on the richness and fat that I need to avoid).
What he doesn't know won't hurt him.") and other hilarities, this book is as much fun to simply sit and read as it is easy to follow the recipes which include tons of step by step photographs.
There are also plenty of pictures of the kids, the cowboys,the horses, the basset hounds and even the dirty dishes to show that anything good tends to make a bit of a mess.
Foodies--check her out and I think you too will fall under her humorous charm: www.thepioneerwoman.com.***Please look for this great book at an independent bookstore near you.
There is a store finder at www.indiebound.com***
