https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32271.Back_To_Eden
I liked this book. I felt like it was well worth the effort to get through. However, I feel that to get the most out of Kloss' book, you need to find one that was published while he was alive. There are revisions in here that are appalling. Things that he preached against have been put in by editors or his kids or whoever to make it seem like he believed in it (ie vaccinations). Some things are obvious, but others aren't. I plan on finding an older copy for myself.
Inside the pages of this masterpiece Jehtro Kloss even discusses his personal life and influences, making it relate-able and understandable for everyone and anyone who reads it.Preppers will appreciate the sections on farming techniques, crops, growing fruits and vegetables, an extensive listing of fruits, veggies, minerals, vitamins, the history of herbal medicine, herbs, their uses, the body system, the health benefits of water, fish, fresh air, exercise, sleep patterns, oatmeal, fiber, breads, salts, milk, etc.
Back to Eden is often referred to as the bible or herbal medicine. It is a must have for anyone interested in gardening and the healing properties of plants. I never finish reading this book because I refer to it over and over again.
If you are knew to herbal cooking, healthy cooking, gardening, healing yourself then you must begin your journey to healthy living with this book. Consider it America's herb Bible. You will want to buy this and keep it in your library because you will have to refer to it often. In fact, I am on my third copy. I bought my first copy in 1989 and I still have ripped cover on my third copy because I use it so much.
A must read for anyone interested in natural health. Especially important for western/eclectic herbalists. Even though i doubt I'll ever agree with him about soy it was amazing how much Jethro intuitively new.
Read this in connection to a correspondence course on herbal education that I am taking. Interesting that the author knew about the health problems relating to processed food in the early part of the 1900s when it seems like it is a "new discovery" by current authors decrying the same today.
While some of his viewpoints and procedures are now frowned upon - and a few of the herbal remedies taken to the degree he suggests are now believed to be dangerous - the large bulk of his remedies and procedures are still regarded as safe and, in some circles, preferable to things available in modern medicine and society.Everything from his personal life and influences, to farming techniques, crops, growing fruits and vegetables, an extensive listing of fruits, veggies, minerals, vitamins, the history of herbal medicine, herbs, their uses, the body system, the health benefits of water, fish, fresh air, exercise, sleep patterns, oatmeal, fiber, breads, salts, milk, etc is included here.
The edition I read & used was earlier than this one ( the 70's or 80's ? ) It is amazing for anyone who want's to understand more about specific health-giving properties of natural foods or use natural remedies & foods to improve their health, or overcome a long list of illnesses.Using a diet of natural / fresh foods high in sulfur,I managed to clear up a girlfriend's serious case of acne in just one week !
This obviously isn't a book that you would read through as if it were a novel, but it is an amazing source of information for those who are just a TINY bit leery of the side affects of modern medicine.
This book is fabulous! A must read for anyone wanting to learn the truth about foods, or looking for an introduction into herbal medicine?
Great do-it-yourself health information. Some of it's probably a little outdated, but it's still a great reference.
this book is very helpful in telling you how to eat, how to prepare it, how to treat illness, etc... I would advise anyone to read this book, but beware it is a very rare book.
This is very interesting so far... I like how he tries to work with the body to heal using diet, baths and massage, and Herbs (in that order), but I'm only two chapters into it soo....
this is a book that makes me want to walk up to people and start shacking them while I yell "How come we've forgotten how to be humans?!"
This is an excellent resource covering nutrition, herbal medicine, general health and much more.
I liked this one. This time through I read it quickly and didn't take notes. I will definitely sit down and gleen what I can from this man. I can see where Dr. Christopher got his writing style, since this book read very much like one of DC's. He was one to work on a problem with what he had on hand. His advise on food is interesting, but I'm not sure what I think about it yet. Good read.
Surprising absence of reference to vinegar, other than in an article on pickles...Also, this book was written before gluten or other allergies came into picture...Love chapters on herbs, though recipes chapter left me unmoved, it did not seem very practical or relevant for today, 71 years since the original copyright date...
Very resourceful book. Since reading it, I've been more conscientious about what I eat and have been using herbs to heal my body rather than manufactured chemicals. The only reason I didn't give it 5 starts is that it's kinda like reading an encyclopedia, which can get tedious. I'm happy I persevered though, as the information in the last chapter was just as useful as that in the first.
THIS BOOK IS INCREDIBLE. I HAVE TRIED SOME OF THE SUGGESTIONS IN THE BOOK AND EVERY ONE I HAVE TRIED HAS WORKED. THIS GOES TO SHOW THAT MEDICINE CAN BE POISON TO THE BODY. THE BODY IS INCREDIBLE. WE JUST NED TO TAKE BETTER CARE OF IT AND USE THE RIGHT METHODS TO CURE IT.
This is similar to Culpepper's Complete Herbal. Jethro Kloss is a more recent figure than Culpepper and this edition includes lengthy letters from his three children, giving insight into the author and what life was like living with him.
This is for my correspondence class with Susun Weed. It's known as a classic of heroic medicine. My mother's father used it and my mother had a copy when I was growing. I remember looking at the illustration of a fish with a tumor and deciding to go vegetarian.
Excellent reference book to have
The book that started my health journey...1977
This book is like my herb bible.
This book was written way before infomercials, juicers, smoothies, health clubs and the like came into being. Informative in a 1960s kind of way!
Home remedies for everything, with biblical references included!
lots of budding veggie hippies read this book back in the 60s & 70s. a little knowledge is a dangerous thing, especially ideas from crackpot health food pioneers.
Great information about nutrition, natural remedies, herbs, and good health stuff. It did not however, make me come up with a better word than "stuff" to describe it.
This is a timeless resource for home remedies. I'm glad these have been written down. I actually tried some of them myself and they do work.
I've read bits and pieces...good info, just lots of it!
