https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4137.Me_Talk_Pretty_One_Day
I have stared deep into the cockles of my heart, and forced myself to come to the only obvious-but-unpopular conclusion.I just don't care for David Sedaris.It was somewhat of an existential struggle for me to reach this conclusion because I'm exactly the kind of person who should like David Sedaris.I am a sarcastic Generation Xer with an overdeveloped sense of irony.
If you tell people that you just don't care for David Sedaris, they look at you like you've got a mullet tucked into the collar of your shirt, a six pack of Old Milwaukee in the fridge, and a Tivo filled up with NASCAR races.
That about sums it up.Because, what's the point to these anecdotes? Are you trying to tell me something Mr. Sedaris? I think not. You think you're funny? Meh, not that funny. Special? You're not that special either. You're a writer, just another writer. What's the big deal? As I said, I don't care much for your little stories. Seriously, my dear, I don't give a damn.
I was living in France at the time, so she thought David Sedaris and I would have a ton in common.
She went to a Sedaris booksigning to get a personalized message to her gay son in France.
When he finally got to her - last - he said, "name?" and she started her story about me: "Tim. He's 17 and he's gay and he's been living in France this year, so if you could put something about France -" He handed her book back, not having heard anything past my name, instead writing some witty thing with bad grammar that played off the book's title.
"It's a good book but he was a complete asshole," she said.My mother's experience aside, I'm sure Sedaris is not actually a soulless, cruel person.
I've been thinking a lot about this, and I have come to the conclusion that David Sedaris is one of the worst human beings in history, i.e., since human beings were first invented by an incompetent, Jerry Lewis-like god or by the inscrutable permutations of natural phenomena.
Because, after all, you wouldn't want to walk around all day with spinach in your teeth, and you wouldn't want to spend your life mistakenly thinking that David Sedaris wasn't evil and unfunny.
David Sedaris is an entry-level gay for these people, right?
They're all liberal, sure, but out in Oak Brook their gay contacts are limited to the service industry.
Sedaris is a quirky kind of writer.
I needed a palate cleanser after the last few heavy reads and this one delivered.
From a betrayal of the tongue (which required speech therapy), to a midget music teacher and some various comical moments in his life, his memoir had me chuckling out loud and talking about it to whomever was in the room.
But alas, a third of the way in, it read like a rant and I quickly became bored.
What began as a breath of fresh air became stale but did give a final gasp at the end.
First two thirds razor sharp; last 3rd, kind of dull.
Prior to publication, several of the essays were read by the author on the Public Radio International program, This American Life.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و نهم ماه دسامبر سال 2013 میلادیعنوان: بالاخره یه روزی قشنگ حرف میزنم؛ اثر: دیوید سداریس؛ مترجم: پیمان خاکسار؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر چشمه، 1391؛ در 234 ص؛ اندازه 5/21 در 5/14 س.م، شابک: 9786002291134؛ موضوع: داستانهای طنزآمیز نویسندگان آمریکایی قرن 21 ممجموعه‌ ای از مقاله‌ ها، و یادداشت‌های طنز، اثر: «دیوید سداریس»، نویسنده‌ ی امریکایی است.
Remember when people who had fucked up or interesting lives drew on their personal experiences to create artful, often symbolic stories that speak to some kind of greater human existence?
Remember when people basically only wrote their autobiography after they had accomplished many other notable things in their life?
At the very least, one would use the events of their life to address some important social issue.Among others, we have David Sedaris to thank for ushering in the age of this crappy, voyeristic autobiography sub-genre that is basically the print version of reality tv.
نهایت خندیدنم یه پوزخند دو ثانیه ای بود.
البته این وسط چیزی هس که طنز رو حساس می کنه و اونم ظرافت های ادبی و زبانی و همچنین فرهنگی و ارزشی و عرفی هس.
با این حال مترجم و نویسنده تقریباْ بی تقصیرن و بر می گرده به همون جریان ظرافت ها و اینا.
نقد اجتماعی و اخلاقی و فرهنگی نویسنده که خاطراتشو به شدت صادقانه و خالصانه بیان می کرد و باعث شد من دیدم به خودم و زندگیم عوض شه.
ینی کم تر به خودم سخت بگیرم و این قد غرغرو نباشم و بدخلقی نکنم.
While some might say the same old formula gets old, with Sedaris it is expected and greatly appreciated.
(I even heard he changed the formula in a recent book and it was not well received)I listened to the audio and love hearing the words from the mouth of the author.
His delivery and timing are perfect - which I suppose is to be expected as they are his words, but not every author can read their words as well as they write.
It is great how he can make every mundane activity an entertaining anecdote.If you like a little humorous getaway, check out this and other Sedaris books.
Once the train trundled into Westminster station I would know to quicken my pace so as to finish another section before alighting at Blackfriars and elbowing some bankers.2) My tube line is the epitome of the British stiff upper lip.
People's faces remain practically emotionless from Putney to Barking to Richmond and up to High Street Kensington.
The banker ignoring the opinion section of the FT for the far more fascinating Stocks and shares pages shifts nervously.
A collection of humor essays on speech and language, Me Talk Pretty One Day is David Sedaris’s most focused work as well as his most famous.
The collection brings together stories describing the author’s family and childhood, travel writings addressing his move to France, and personal pieces reflecting on his aimlessness as a young adult.
From recounting his experience of speech therapy as an elementary student to recalling his first gig teaching language and writing, Sedaris covers many subjects without straying from the collection’s theme.
The collection isn’t life changing, but it passes the time nicely on a long commute or at work.
But "Thing of beauty?" Absolutely not.For a popular writer, Mr. Sedaris maintains that he is more important than anything else, anybody else, any other subject.
I could not relate to a single thing this dude wrote about!About his trips to France (just check this out): "There are plenty of places on Earth where Americans are greeted with enthusiasm.
Unfortunately, these places tend to lack anything you'd really want to buy.
& that, to me, is the only reason to leave home in the first place--to buy things."Aggh!
با ترجمه پيمان خاكسار. هرگز به عمرم نديدم پدرم جز از قفسههايي كه بالايشان نوشته: حراج به دليل نزديكي تاريخ انقضا، چيزي بردارد. تمام اقلام قفسههاي ديگر براي او نامرئي بودند.به خاطر چيزي كه مادرم «يه جو شخصيت» ميناميد، من و خواهرانم به ندرت وارد اتاق پشتي ميشديم. بهتر بود فاصلهمان را حفظ كنيم و خودمان را بچههاي آدم ديگري جا بزنيم. بالاخره پدرمان برميگشت با دستهايي پر از ميوههاي متلاشي كه هيچ شباهتي به ميوه نداشتند...پيام عملش اين بود: اگر چيزي مجاني است، بهترينش را سوا كن! و...سداريس، كتاب را به پ
تمام اقلام قفسه‌هاي ديگر براي او نامرئي بودند.به خاطر چيزي كه مادرم «يه جو شخصيت» مي‌ناميد، من و خواهرانم به ندرت وارد اتاق پشتي مي‌شديم.
بهتر بود فاصله‌مان را حفظ كنيم و خودمان را بچه‌هاي آدم ديگري جا بزنيم.
بالاخره پدرمان برمي‌گشت با دستهايي پر از ميوه‌هاي متلاشي كه هيچ شباهتي به ميوه نداشتند...پيام عملش اين بود: اگر چيزي مجاني است، بهترينش را سوا كن!
سداريس در طنزش، شديدا صادق است و همين باعث مي‌شود طنزش، تصنعي نباشد..درمجموع، بين كتابهايي كه اين مدت ازش خوندم، اين به نظرم بهتر از همه بود.
البته، «مادربزرگتو از اين جا ببر» هم خوب بود.
Yet...I feel like Sedaris accurately summed up his entire approach to writing on page 44: "True art was based upon despair, and the important thing was to make yourself and those around you as miserable as possible." He meant this as satire, I'm sure...but what I found truly halarious was that he didn't even realize that he just described the book I was currently reading.Upon describing his life, Sedaris wants you to think it's funny.
Sedaris is supposed to be funny...I guess I'm un-hip and not a real Gen-x'er...because I find him miserable.
طنز جالبی که بی مزه نباشه ژانریه که تو محصولات فرهنگی داخلی کمتر بهش برخورد کردم و کمبودش رو همیشه ح

هیچوقت مدافع سرسخت فرانسویها نبودهام ولی واقعا باید به ملتی که تحت هیچ شرایطی موقع فیلم تماشا کردن حرف نمیزنند احترام گذاشت.
من اینجا کنار گروهی بچه مدرسهای که به دیدن یک فیلم مزخرف بزنبکش آمدهاند نشستهام و حتی یک نفر لب از لب باز نکرده.
آخرین باری که در یک سینمای آمریکایی سکوت را تجربه کردم یادم نیست.
فکر کنم تماشاگران ما تمام روز حرف نمی زنند و تمام حرفهایشان را میگذارند برای وقتی که فیلم شروع میشود.
یک بار در یک سینمای معمولی نیویورک زدم روی شانهی مردی که جلوم نشسته بود و نقدش را قطع کردم و ا
یک بار در یک سینمای معمولی نیویورک زدم روی شانه‌ی مردی که جلوم نشسته بود و نقدش را قطع کردم و ازش پرسیدم که آیا می‌خواهد کل فیلم را حرف بزند؟ گفت: خب آره.
هر بار غریبه‌ای که تا آن لحظه در فیلم دیده نشده بود در خانه‌ی کسی را می‌زد می‌پرسیدند: این کیه؟ می‌خواستم بهشان اطمینان بدهم که به موقع جواب سؤالاتشان را خواهند گرفت ولی چون اعتقاد دارم نباید سر فیلم حرف زد دوباره جا عوض کردم به این امید که وسط دو نفر بنشینم که یا خواب‌شان برده باشد یا مرده باشند.از متن کتاب

You've still got 5 minutes before your speech therapy session." If I remained seated until 2:27, she'd say, "David, don't forget you have a speech therapy session at 2:30." On the days I was absent, I imagined she addressed the room, saying, "David's not here today but if he were, he'd have a speech therapy session at 2:30."
Admittedly, my mood improved seriously when I got to the chapters relating to our protagonist's experiences in language school.
Naturally.Score: 3.3 /5 starsI feel like if I ever need the perfect comeback, this book will provide it...
This is the first book I've read by Sedaris, but I will certainly be picking up more in the future!
He writes witty essays about his life, this collection specifically focusing on a period when he moved to Paris and was learning French, with other stories sprinkled in.
His writing was funny without trying to be too edgy, punny, or forced.
The audiobook is narrated by him, and there's even certain parts of it that are recordings of live readings.
My only gripe is that the audiobook weirdly omitted some stories that were in my physical copy of the book.
I liked the idea that a part of one's body might be thought of as lazy--not thoughtless or hostile, just unwilling to extend itself for the betterment of the team.""She was what we called Tanorexic.""My father is the type who once recited a bawdy limerick: "A woman I know who's quite blunt/Had a beartrap installed in her...
I know it sounds calculating, but if you're not cute, you might as well be clever.""Every day we're told that we live in the greatest country on earth.
As the title suggests, much of Me Talk Pretty One Day revolves around speech and speaking: > Back in school lil' David (I guess he's still kind of little, isn't he) was forced into correcting his sibilant speech by a highly determined therapist.
I've listened to this one many times, maybe more than any of his others, and while I enjoy the heck out of it, there are long stretches where I wasn't laughing.
But those looking for wall-to-wall laughs be warned.* You really have to listen to Sedaris read is own material to get the full funny out of it.
... هر روز به ما میگویند که داریم در بهترین کشور دنیا زندگی میکنیم؛ همیشه هم به عنوان یک حقیقت غیرقابل انکار بیان میشود ... امریکا بهترین کشور دنیاست. با این باور بزرگ میشوی و وقتی یک روز میفهمی که کشورهای دیگر هم برای خودشان شعار ناسیونالیستی دارند و هیچ کدامشان هم این نیست که «ما دومی هستیم!» وحشت برت میدارد.
... هر روز به ما می‌گویند که داریم در بهترین کشور دنیا زندگی می‌کنیم؛ همیشه هم به عنوان یک حقیقت غیرقابل انکار بیان می‌شود ... امریکا بهترین کشور دنیاست. با این باور بزرگ می‌شوی و وقتی یک روز می‌فهمی که کشورهای دیگر هم برای خودشان شعار ناسیونالیستی دارند و هیچ کدام‌شان هم این نیست که «ما دومی هستیم!» وحشت برت می‌دارد.
Before I picked up this book I knew nothing about David Sedaris.
If someone said to me now, "so why should I give a damn about David Sedaris" I probably still wouldn't be able to offer an adequate defence.
What does David Sedaris do?
Ummmm, I think he writes books about being David Sedaris.
On the whole I suspect that David Sedaris spends a lot of time wandering around inside his own skull.
However, years of imbibing Crystal Meth, paint thinner, white-out, Speed and alcohol have left behind a thick veneer which is sealing the main points of entry and exit into Mr Sedaris' skull and this means that the poor man is effectively trapped in there.

I feel like reading this in public would be a great idea for shy people who want more social interaction because strangers will undoubtedly go up to you to ask what has you laughing so loudly.While at times the writing feels a little overly embellished, for the most part I adored this collection of stories and essays that mostly focused on David's attempts to learn the french language and his holidays in France.
It was hilarious and I can't tell if it has made me more or less likely to try to attempt learning that language myself in the future.Overall fun read, loved the bite sized chapters and would recommend this to anyone who enjoys dry and slightly dark humour.
I live in a town in France with a shortage of bookshops which carry books in English and sometimes, in spite of the huge choices available online, I get a desperate urge to linger in a real bookshop, combing the shelves for treasure.
I liked the title of this collection of short pieces by David Sedaris and it said 'Wildly entertaining' on the cover so I cheerfully handed over my money.
I found some of his comments on living in France, and learning French, very apt.
He feels that he has a different personality in French and this is something I have been feeling for years.
خُب دیگه، از این به بعد کافیه اسم سداریسُ رو جلد کتابی ببینم، بدون خوندن عنوان میخرمش و میرم سراغش! این کتاب یه روند مشخص داستانی نداره، هر بخشش یه داستان جداست ولی خب از لحاظ محتوایی مرتبطن با هم.زبانش طنزه و خیلی جاهاش بوده که قهقهه زدم، و فک میکنم با این وجود کتاب زبان اصلیش مسلما خندهدارتر باید باشه و طنزش قابل فهمتر:)
خُب دیگه، از این به بعد کافیه اسم سداریسُ رو جلد کتابی ببینم، بدون خوندن عنوان می‌خرمش و می‌رم سراغش! این کتاب یه روند مشخص داستانی نداره، هر بخشش یه داستان جداست ولی خب از لحاظ محتوایی مرتبطن با هم.زبانش طنزه و خیلی جاهاش بوده که قهقهه زدم، و فک می‌کنم با این وجود کتاب زبان اصلیش مسلما خنده‌دارتر باید باشه و طنزش قابل فهم‌تر:)
دركل كتاب دوست داشتنى اى بود !
ولى به خاطر اينكه داره خاطرات پراكنده رو تعريف ميكنه و قرار نيست يه داستان واحد رو بگه اونجورى نيست كه جذبت كنه و بخواى ببينى چى ميشه!
فقط به عنوان يه كتاب طنز خوبه و چندتا از داستاناش خيلى خيلى بامزن البته تو ترجمه فارسى به خاطر اينكه يه سرى جمله ها كه تو ترجمه طنزشو از دست ميده؛ باعث شده كه چند درجه از طنز كتاب كاسته شه!
و من مدام بايد متن اصلى رو هم ميخوندم يه فصل هم كه سانسور شده تو ترجمه!!!
اگه توانايى داريد كه انگليسيشو بخونين خيلى بهتر خواهد بود
If you ever bump into me on a bus and I'm staring at a screen laughing my a** off, it's because I'm reading Sedaris. 4.5/5
