https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4806.Longitude
But a sailor in the middle of an ocean pre-dating 18th century only had limited resources in the form of either a pendulum driven clock which was not at all reliable – as the factors like gravity, motion of the vessel, temperature and atmospheric pressure affected the pendulum and there by the time – or by comparing positions of moon or planets like Mars with their anticipatory positions in working out the longitudinal values; both these methods were crude with a high level of inaccuracy.Since the days of Ptolemy, legendary scientific and exploratory minds like Amarigo Vespucci, Sir Issac Newton and Galileo Galilei did a lot of research into this matter but it took sixteen more centuries for mankind to finally invent a reliable solution for this problem.A tragedy & the declaration of a prize moneyIn 1707, a British fleet of vessels under Admiral Sir Clowdesley Shovell met with a tragic disaster as the result of miscalculations in their whereabouts leading to the sinking of four warships with a death toll of more than 1600 mariners.
The (true) story is great: legendary historical figures like Isaac Newton, Galileo, James Cook, King George III; scientific conundrums; innovative engineering; a ransom of millions at stake; and a humble, lone man competing against oppressive and manipulative big-wigs.Background: Latitude lines are the parallel lines that circle the globe above and below the equator, and any sailor could figure out his latitude by measuring the length of the day or looking at the angle of the sun or the north star.
Yes, to anyone interested in history, science, engineering, geography, politics, astronomy, navigation, clockmaking...Would I teach it?
To win the full prize, the method or device had to be accurate to within one-half degree on a trip from England to the West Indies.There had been many ideas about how to determine longitude, but none worked reliably.
And since the board was mostly made up of astronomers, they instinctively preferred an astronomical solution to a simply mechanical one.Harrison was awarded the prestigious Copley Gold Medal in 1749 at the recommendation of the Royal Society for the many innovations he had made in his clocks that made them so accurate and reliable.
Really lovely and very interesting reading. Everybody knows about longitude but I guess not so many know the struggles and fights behind the tries to 'conquer' it, including myself.John Harrison was a genius of his times; beside the fact that he produced the first accurate marine watches for calculating longitude, his pieces are works of art:H1(http://www.rmg.co.uk/discover/behind-...)H3(http://www.rmg.co.uk/discover/behind-...)And the masterpiece, H4, completed in 1759:(http://prints.rmg.co.uk/art/520153/ma...)The book is written on everyone's understanding, full of new historical facts (for me). It was a pleasure and it takes just a few hours to get it done; totally worthy of your time.
The invention of the chronometer changed the way sailors navagate the sea for all time. A man named Harrison, after much extortion came up with what he called 'a clock that works on the sea'. And so it was, a tool which could measure longitude. Until that point, only longitude was used, and a nap of the stars. This book explains it's development in East to understand terms, along with many full color picture describing each in detail. A fascinating find. Highly recommend.
Un barco podía pensar que estaba arribando a su destino cuando quizás era todo lo contrario, o podía colisionar con elementos desconocidos provocando su hundimiento.Hay que pensar en la longitud como un elemento asociado al tiempo.
Por lo tanto es fundamental saber en todo momento el tiempo real tanto en el barco como en el lugar desde el que se ha partido o el de destino.
Y aquí entraban en juego los partidarios de los relojes y los que preferían guiarse por el mapa estelar, mirando el cielo.Era tan importante para los países encontrar una solución al problema de la longitud, que les hacía perder barcos, mercancías, hombres y dinero, que decidieron poner una recompensa a aquél que diese una solución lo más exacta posible.
In Longitude, Dava Sobel chronicles the world's quest to tame time.
In 1714, the English Parliament passed the longitude act.
In particular Sobel highlights John Harrison's pursuit of the prize.
Jealous rivals on the board used their influence to change the rules of the contest multiple times.
George III asked that a special act of Parliament be passed and Harrison finally received his prize.Despite it's brevity, Longitude is an incredibly engaging and educational book.
Sobel writes in a way that makes the science and math accessible to the general reader.If you're interested in this subject I'd also recommend the 2000 A&E movie, which was based on this book.
Possibly a model for a certain kind of non-fiction book, the type with very long sub-titles that are meant to cast light on a very short main title, the whole presumably being the original elevator pitch that the author made to the publisher.
This one is all about the late 18th century watch maker, John Harrison, who builds a series of highly accurate watches in an attempt to win a prize for a device to be able to establish longitude at sea.
Nice, does what it says on the tin type book.
In the tradition of praising people whose work made it possible to do things a little better - in this case navigate across seas using a map.
"The British Parliament, in its famed Longitude Act of 1714, set the highest bounty of all, naming a prize equal to a king’s ransom (several million dollars in today’s currency) for a “Practicable and Useful” means of determining longitude.” I read this historical and biographical account in one evening.
It's not without flaws, but I was fascinated and gave it 5 stars for holding my attention in a topic I rarely read about, where science, math, politics, and culture intersect with astronomical and nautical history.
In 1714, King George and Parliament earmarked a HUGE reward (£20,000 pounds!) for whoever was first to come up with a highly reliable way to find longitudinal orientation.
This book was intended for the general reader.
Consequently it did not deal much with the details either of the astronomical or mechanical approaches to solving the problem of finding longitude on the high seas.
Instead it focused on description of John Harrison's quest to build an ocean chronometer.
The author treats the difficulties Harrison encountered convincing the Board of Longitude of the efficacy of his devices as a matter of petty politics and egotism without offering the reader sufficient detail about the technical disputes to make any judgments about the scientific debate at the center of the controversy.This book was a bit of a disappointment considering the glowing reviews it received.
An amazing book.
The following short review is copied from the calendar.Anyone with an interest in history or things maritime should consider Longitude," said USA Today of this bestseller.
Sobel describes 18th-century clockmaker John Harrison's struggle to invent an accurate chronometer, which measured time, necessary to calculate longitude while at sea.
Requiring decades of painstaking research, Harrison finally accomplished his goal, but then faded into the mists of time until his reputation was revived by Sobel's book, which is full of little-known facts about science, ships, and England in the 1700s.
LONGITUDE, THE TRUE STORY OF A LONE GENIUS WHO SOLVED THE GREATEST SCIENTIFIC PROBLEM OF HIS TIME,
For the longest time, the solution to calculating longitude eluded mariners because no one could construct a clock that was both accurate enough and durable enough.
Longitude was a big deal.I knew the gist of the John Harrison story prior to reading Longitude, but Dava Sobel goes beyond the accomplishments of this single man and charts the course of the problem, and all its proposed solutions.
But where ego is concerned and establishing primacy is often necessary for the money and prestige that follows a discovery, tempers will flare and harsh words will be exchanged.So with this centuries-old problem juxtaposed against a feud between a rural carpenter-turned-watchmaker and the Astronomer Royal, Sobel turns Longitude from a history book into an exciting story.
Maybe Longitude suffered by comparison with my previous read, Amir Alexander's Infinitesimal, but this book felt very light and frothy.
I get that Dava Sobel was writing for a general audience and that I'm a scientist by training, but I would have really appreciated a few more sources or direct quotes from source texts and letters to connect with the historical figures described.
As it was it very much felt like a summary or an abstract rather than the meat of a true historical account, with a sense of disconnect from the events described.
Which is a shame, as the events are fascinating!
When tension did arrive later on (basically after he'd already solved the problem), everything got kind of rushed through - it is a very short book, and it might have been better with a little more time devoted to rounding out some of the ideas, so that diversions into a brief recap of Captain Cook's death, or the voyage of the Beagle actually felt like they belonged, rather than being shoehorned in for some broader appeal.
Karma had the last laugh, as the Admiral went to his own reckoning.
John Harrison was the nondescript genius who found the answer, but then had to spend the rest of his years fighting the establishment to get the recognition and the reward.This book ended much too quickly.
Amazingly, Harrison's first three clocks continue to tick centuries later, which is quite an achievement.
Were he alive today, he would surely be part of the Google workplace.Book Season = Winter (when the Atlantic is most angry)

Since ancient times, seafarers had understood how to measure latitude (concentric circles parallel to the equator) based on the angle of the sun and the time of year.
But longitude (circles which intersect at each pole - used to measure east/west distance) is much more of a challenge.
Determining a position requires much more sophisticated astronomical measurement and calculation.
Or, it requires very accurate measurement of time.In 1707, the British Parliament offered a prize equal to several million of today's dollars for an accurate and useful way to determine longitude.
Since clockmaking was in its infancy, this challenge resulted in great innovation, and that's the core of this book's fascinating story.
This little book tells the story of how inventors attempted to solve the vexing problem of obtaining a critical part in calculating longitude -- having a reliable timepiece providing accurate, standardized time on the sea.
It's a surprisingly exciting tale: there was a contest, a rich reward and a deadline for entries.
Before this problem was solved, sailors could calculate latitude by the stars but longitude required consistent, reliable timekeeping in all ocean conditions from one fixed point.
The author explains all the challenges involved and has written a suspenseful, interesting book about a subject I took for granted.
A great little read - I was inspired to read this one after being lucky enough to see the longitude 
The book contains a lot of interesting information, and I am glad I read it. I enjoyed the first half. At some point, though, I got tired of reading about how unfairly Harrison was treated in his efforts to claim the longitude prize. The last part of the book seemed to drag, for me.
It became a great quest to discover a solution to the longitude problem.
There is a story that as a child he came down with smallpox and was given a watch to amuse himself while recovering.
None the less Harrison became a self taught clockmaker.
Harrison's efforts in solving the longitude problem gave us the chronometer.
He built four different clocks in his quest to solve the longitude problem all the while some of the worlds leading astronomers, including Edmund Halley, were mapping the stars in their effort to solve the problem.
It is a story of navigation, astronomy, and clockmaking.
Various methods were tried, including one that took lunar sightings developed by Nevil Maskelyne.Enter John Harrison.
Harrison went on to develop 4 versions to meet these changing requirements, culminating in a 5 inch diameter watch that did the same as the H-1.By this time Nevil Maskelyne was head of the Longitude board.
He made it extremely difficult for Harrison as he wanted his preferred lunar method to win.
Harrison complied with the demanding requirements, and surrendered his clocks to the board.
The Longitude prize was a forerunner to modern innovation prizes like the X Prize for launching a manned spacecraft into orbit, and the Orteig prize for a direct flight across the Atlantic (won by Charles Lindbergh).Longitude and latitude are coordinates for naming a location on the globe.
Unlucky guesses could result in many deaths.It's hard to imagine this today, but solving the longitude problem would be equivalent in modern times to landing on the moon or curing cancer.This book documents the half century that the one man who eventually solved it, and along the way he made horology (clock engineering) into an important and respected craft.
The kingdoms of Enlightenment Europe were basically racing against each other to find a way to calculate longitude that worked better than eyeballing the north star with a sextant on a pitching deck, which pretty much didn't work at all.
Longitude is the story of John Harrison, the man who invented the first clock accurate enough to keep time at sea, allowing navigators to know exactly where they were on an East-West scale.
Harrison, and the reader, get sucked into a whirlpool of royal and scientific politics, which can get very dirty.
Longitude tells the incredible story of John Harrison, an 18th century clock maker who entered into a contest to create the first clock (chronometer) capable of withstanding the rigors of a sea voyage so that mariners could determine their correct longitude at sea. When the organizers of the contest balked at awarding Harrison the prize money, he took his fight to court. A spellbinding tale that reads more like a suspense thriller. Great for lovers of science, history, sea adventures, and underdogs who find the courage to take on the system.
Stellar nonfiction, exceptionally well-written. Technical enough to satisfy those who want the details, lucid enough for the non-technical to comprehend the central problem and its attempted solutions, engaging enough to draw in all kinds of readers, this kind of book could get practically anyone excited about applied science through real-world problem solving.
Likewise, if you're expecting a a blow-by-blow account of his inventions and dealings with the Board of Longitude, you are also going to be disappointed.However, if you are looking for an interesting, fast read about the problems of calculating the longitude of a point on earth and how these were eventually solved, you have come to the right place.
Time is to clock as mind is to brain. The clock or watch somehow contains the time. And yet time refuses to be bottled up like a genie stuffed in a lamp. Whether it flows as sand or turns on wheels within wheels, time escapes irretrievably, while we watch. If you read Bryson's A Short History of Nearly Everything, and are eager for more, Longitude will be right up your alley. (I've read so many "history of science" type books, I'm thinking I should create a GR shelf just for them.) A lot of the
The clock or watch somehow contains the time.
(I've read so many "history of science" type books, I'm thinking I should create a GR shelf just for them.) A lot of the stars of History make an appearance, including Galileo, Cassini, Newton, Huygens, Hooke, Halley, and Euler.I read this as a biography of John Harrison, watch-maker and longitude measurer, but that doesn't start until chapter 7, a fulll 33% into the book.The most accurate description is that this is a micro history of the development of time-keeping instruments that allowed seamen to measure longitude accurately.
The book really made me empathise with the woes that John Harrison was going through in his dealings with the Board of Longitude, especially with Nevil Maskelyne.
This literally stands true here, as if it was not for the dedicated efforts by men like Harrison & his son, George Graham, Kendell, Mudge, Arnold and a lot of others the world may never have seen such wonderful new instruments.
'Chronometer' earlier had ringed in me the memory of an instrument used in ships but now it truly makes me remember a bygone age where the quest for finding the longitude was the passion that kept a generation of men so avid and awake.
