https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1688817.The_Maid_Silja
Read this in Finland as an exchange student. It seemed to me that it revealed a lot about the essential character of the Finns and the land they love. Interesting history and story.
I've started this book three hours ago, and I'm already through the half of it. It's an enjoyable reading, as a fan of Scandinavian literature, i can say that this book gives you a good opportunity to observe and contemplate the life of the finnish people at the end of the 19th century. It also takes you on a journey where you'll be smiling (imagining the young Silja running outside in the sun), going sad (there are some sad deaths throughout the book) and overall enjoying the descriptions about the Finnish scenery and life there in general.
Harvoin olen kokenut hiljaisuuden kirjassa näin voimakkaana. Voisin arvella, että loppuratkaisun kertominen alkuun oli harkittua, jotta kirjassa ei olisi turhia jännitteitä vaan se pysyisi juuri tällaisena, jotta Silja kokonaisteoksena omaisi samat laadut kuin Silja henkilönä. Samaa tunnelmaa ruokkivat myös ennakoivat lauseet pitkin tarinaa.Ihan erikoisen tyyni kirja, vaikka (sisällis)sotakuvaustakin oli verevöittämässä.Voisin kuvitella, että tämä olisi kirja jota lukisin ääneen vanhuksille palvelutalossa (en ole koskaan ollut lukemassa, mutta ehkä joskus vielä). Tyyli on siveää ja siistiä ja sanat soljuvat kepeästi, mutta silti koskettavat.
It was a difficult book to read at the start because it is obviously a translation from Finnish.
It took me a while to get accustomed to the rythm and style of the writing translated into English, and then I found myself really enjoying the story.
The story is beautifully written.Sillanpaa offers this at the end as a message of the tragic story:"So ends the tale of the last flourishing of an old family tree that happened to end at that time; they are always ending.
You too, the farthest reader in point of time of this narrative, may respect our battles.
If you want romance and a happy ending don't read this: we are told on Page 1 that Silja dies young.
But if you want to learn what life was like in Scandinavia a century or two ago, do read it.
I learned much about Finnish social customs and farm life (hard, but didn't sound unbearable even for hired hands male or female).
Suddenly we learn it's 1917 and Finland is part of the Russian Empire; but, although Bolsheviks appear and cause some trouble, the Revolution doesn't play a large part in the story.
The Nobel committee said in 1939 that Sillanpää won expressly for this book.
It was....it was an uninspiring book.
I don't see how I'm supposed to harbor any compassion for the main character, a girl named Silja who starts out in her pre-teen years as semi-well off but then her father dies, the farm is lost, and she leads a life of being a farm maid at one farm then another.
Then she dies.It sounds harsh to describe a plot so flatly but there is no connection to the main character, no sympathy or empathy, so everything feels dull and listless.
Esta novela narra la historia de Silja, una chica que queda huérfana de padre y madre en una localidad rural de Finlandia, poco antes de que estalle la guerra civil en el país y el conflicto entre bolcheviques y blancos.
Silja pasará toda su (corta) vida trabajando en distintas casas como sirvienta.
La historia de la sirvienta Silja es aburrida, cae en lo monótono de idas y venidas de casas, amos y otros sirvientes.
Tampoco aparece prácticamente nada —hasta casi el final— del contexto histórico de la novela, la guerra civil finlandesa, que era uno de los atractivos para mí en esta novela.

3.5 stars
Revisiting my Finnish literature. Life’s circle.
Natürlich, Knut Hamsun's unerreichtes Meisterwerk Segen der Erde!Ähnlich wie sein weitaus bekannteres Bruderstück aus Norwegen weiß Silja, die Magd mit einem existentialistischen Blick auf das einfache, nicht notwendigerweise romantisierte Leben zu ergreifen, auch wenn Sillanpää's Motive freilich andere sind.
Sillanpää schlägt sich, wenn überhaupt - und das ist gut so - auf die Seite seiner Charaktere, nicht auf die einer bestimmten Klasse oder politischen Gruppierung.
Dies lässt den Leser ungemein nahe an die handelnden Personen rücken und das bäuerliche Umfeld erstaunlich authentisch miterleben.Silja, die Magd ist ein tolles Buch aus der wohl großartigsten Epoche skandinavischer Literatur.
I discovered this book when I read a review tucked into the pages of a book about learning Finnish.
The review was by Timothy Crouse, author of The Boys on the Bus, and I wish I had not misplaced it, because he was able to articulate the beautiful thrall that this book had on me in a way that I cannot.
His writing is deceptively simple, and it almost seems as though he's done a sleight of hand when, frequently, at the end of a paragraph of simple declarative and modest sentences, I found myself taking a sharp breath in as I grasped the entire picture of the scene he has sketched out.
Key element - the connection between nature and human.In the first half of the book, it is presented the life of Kusta, Silja's father - a little bit of his childhood and then as a grown up with his wife after he gets in charge of his parent's big farm.
He loves his wife, the farm, his legacy, but mostly his children.
The second half of the novel focuses on Silja's life after her father's death; she moves to several locations, never losing her love for life, nature, kindness...
She sort of feels like she connects to the surrounding universe in the same way her father did.

Sillanpään yhteys ympäröivään luontoon ja alkuvoimaisiin ihmisiin on erityistä. Hänen ajatuksensa liikehtii pilvinä taivaalla. Kultaisiksi kypsyneillä viljatasangoilla, veden peilikuvissa. Ihmisen ikä -kuolinhethestä katsottuna - on kuin lyhyt paikoilleen pysähtynyt näky, kaihoa herättävä vertauskuva:"Kaikki etääntyy mutta yksi tulee yhä lähemmäksi. Pian he saavat jo kohdata, ensin päivällä....sitten kahden kesken lehtopolulla. Siellä he menevät ikään kuin nukkumaan koskettamatta", Sillanpää kuvaa Siljan, nuoren tytön kuolemaa ja siirtymistä luonnon kiertokulkuun. Frans Eemil Sillanpään luova kausi oli huikea. Jo muutaman teoksen jälkeen hän poimi Nobel-palkinnon v. 1939. Sitten ajatus katkesi - pohjimmiltaan vaatimattoman talonpojan mielen sairauteen.
I had to stop reading after 30 pages because I couldn't stand it anymore. The author keeps jumping from one thing to another with no apparent connection, using characters that come out of thin air, and there's almost no action, it's mostly a description of actions. It's too chaotic, I really don't like it. I rarely leave a book unfinished and I usually love anything related to Finland, but this is just too much.
This is an excellent novel on peasant life by Frans Sillanpaa, the first Finnish writer to win the Nobel Prize for literature in 1939. This story also goes by the name of "Fallen Asleep While Young" and it depicts the loves (and struggles) of a young peasant girl who falls into economic ruin, and her ensuing struggles to persevere in life.
Sillanpään mestarillinen kielenkäyttö on Siljassa merkillepantavaa. Kukaan nykyajan kirjailija ei voisi kirjoittaa samoin kuulostamatta lattealta tai ylitunteelliselta. Sillanpää ei saanut Nobelia suotta ja Silja on mielestäni eräs suomalaisen kirjallisuuden hienoimpia kirjoja.
momentous in bringing the barren reality back to life; it's crude yet sensitive and sensitising, Sillanpaa cannot leave one unimpressed.http://natziune.blogspot.com/2011/07/...
Wienissä luettuja. Ei mitään erityistä jäänyt mieleen.
