https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107317.So_Disdained
From the preface:  ”And then none shall be unto them so odious and disdained as the traitours … who have solde their countrie to a straunger and forsaken their faith and obedience contrarie to nature or religion; and contrarie to that humane and general honour not onely of Christians but of heathen and irreligious nations, who have always sustained what labour soever and embraced even death itself for their countrie, prince, and commonwealth.” – Sir Walter Raleigh I’m not sure what it is, but wh
In a sense, it is a Good Samaritan story and the narrator, Peter Moran, comes upon a pilot who crash-landed, is ill with malaria, and so he takes him in.
He isn’t even sure himself why he feels compelled to help Maurice Lenden aside from the fact that they were both pilots during WWI.It is fascinating to me that this novel predicts a “break with Russia” that didn’t come to fruition until decades later.
Considering the story is placed early in the 20th Century, these women are strong, capable, and independent.I thoroughly enjoyed reading this story and once again look forward to reading more of Nevil Shute’s gripping novels in the months ahead.
This is one of Nevil Shute's earlier works, written in 1928, and even with his early writings, you can see his unique story - telling style.
I love the way Shute lays out his stories, introduces his characters, introduces concepts of patriotism or heroism without preaching but at the same time making you think about what they are and what they mean.
He is a story - teller, one of the best and it was enjoyable to read one of his early ones and see how his style developed as he came to write my favourites of his later works.
It pains me to give any novel by Nevil Shute fewer than five stars, but he hadn't quite hit his stride yet in this, his second of 26 gripping novels.
Usually I feel a real emotional bond with the characters but I didn't quite connect to the main character Peter Moran and the love interest, Sheila.
The best part of the book is when Peter sets off on his dangerous mission after a lingering farewell with Sheila -- and then, not content to remain behind wringing her hands, she charters a plane and shows up to save the day!
Peter Moran is driving home one evening in the rain when he comes upon a man walking along the road.
Peter pushes it because he's sure and finally Maurice acknowledges it is indeed him.
Peter takes him home with him that night and Maurice begins to share what's he's been doing since the war.
The final bit of the tale is that he's been living and working in Russia and is currently in England because he was flying a night mission for the Russians taking photos of something going on in Portsmouth.
Maurice wants to return to Russia to deliver the plates of photos.
Brilliant idea and superb execution...
When I reached page 40 of this book, I was kind of surprised.
The main theme seemed to be mostly sorted out, and I wondered if the rest of the book would be extremely boring.
However, the other characters were believable and easy to sympathise with, especially the main character, Peter Moran.
There were scenes which felt unnecessary, for example Mr. Moran meeting the young pilot at the train station.
Overall, I was surprised by how much I enjoyed it since I didn't know anything about the author or the plot as I picked it up, and I would say that it was worth the read.
Another good one from the most exceptional storyteller! The author has a way of pulling me in every time. I really feel like I know the characters. He also does a good job with suspense in this one as well!
Not my favourite Nevil Shute book.
I usually enjoy Nevil Shute's books. Not this one.
I picked this out of a stack of books at Paramount Books in Manchester without quite realising what I had. I'd only read On the Beach before, you see, and that's quite a different beast.It would be wrong to compare the two, as such. But I loved this book almost as much; and I was carried away by it and surprised by it - I kept expecting it to turn the way an Alastair MacLean might, but of course Shute's heroes are never just that.Lovely, lively find.
Outstanding read! This is Shute's second book, written when he was still using his surname, Norway. It's a dated spy novel, but perfectly readable and with the authentic voice one expects from Shute. I waited many months for the library to obtain a copy, and now I'll request a hold on one of the others that I haven't been able to find. Reading Shute--always a treat.
I've read most of Nevil Shute's books and enjoyed them very much but not this one.
I disliked the book because of the lack of a real story, the thin characterisation and the general belief that it could have been so much better.The hero helps a British born soviet spy to evade capture, then manages to get him killed by not disclosing to him a vital piece of information, involving photographic plates.
I am all For the willing suspension of belief when reading fiction but this story was just laughable.
It concerns Shute's professional interest in piloting, when it was still a pretty new skill.
A naive pilot, concerned only about earning a living, has got involved with the Soviet Union (mostly Jews, according to Shute) to the point of taking a thousand pounds to deliver photographs of Portsmouth Harbour, where something is happening.
A diplomatic incident ensues, involving the "author's" employer, a senior official at the Foreign Office.
This all involves the classic elements of a 20th century thriller: Communists, who are assumed to be evil, a couple of poorly-described babes, and pretty hopeless foreigners.
MYSTERIOUS AVIATOR is a fairly good tale of a crash landing in the 1920's English countryside of a down-on-his-luck English aviator Maurice Lenden, who had been returning after a spying mission for the Russians.
The tale becomes more involved when the Russians send another spy flight over England to get the photographs that Maurice failed to return with.
The Russians come after and steal Maurice's photographic plates once they learn they survived his crash.
Finally, Peter decides that he must make a harrowing effort to assist Maurice.I have become a Nevil Shute junkie, since this is about.the 10th of his books I have read in a row.
It has the fussiness that one expects from him, without the saving grace of a rattling good story.
Several incidents test the reader's willingness to suspend disbelief, showing Shute's lack of experience: the ease with which he is able to hide the airplane; the convenient presence, on a country estate, of a skilled airplane mechanic just when he needs one; the sudden unexplained appearance of Stenning to save the situation at the end; the willingness of the Fascisti to help him when it was not in their economic interest to do so.All in all, a book that would appleal only to dedicated fans of Nevil Shute.Note: Like several of Shute's books, this one was published elsewhere under a different title "The Mysterious Aviator"
The central plot preempts the 1950 & onwards trend for cold war fiction - it is essentially a story of bad bolshevik Russians and a lost but honorable Englishman.
The book rolls along nicely but it should be said that, to contemporary eyes, the latter part of the book's & its introduction of heroic Italian fascists, sits uncomfortably.
That said, this was written shortly after the 1926 general strike and I think the middle classes in particular were worried by "Bolsheviks" and also it is argued as part of the plot development - in the narrators eyes the fascists were the natural antagonists of the Bolsheviks....
I rather liked this book.
It's the second by Shute that I've read, and I'll likely read more of him.
It involves a young man who had been a pilot during WWI.
He stops to offer they guy a ride and discovers he is an old mate from the air corps.
His mate, however, has stayed with flying, the only thing he ever liked or could do competently.
So, we spend the rest of the book trying to save the pilot's bacon, so to speak, while making sure the "intelligence" that he had gathered didn't get back to the man's employers.
Late on a rainy night, Peter Moran stopped to give a ride to a stranger, who turned out to be Maurice Lenden, a former acquaintance when they were pilots in World War I together.
Lenden had quite a story to tell, and as the days went on, Moran found himself more entangled in Lenden’s activities involving Russian espionage than he really wanted to be, and trapped between two loyalties.
This was Shute’s second novel, written in 1928.
I liked it -- I have liked all of Nevil Shute’s books, and this one makes me want to get hold of his first novel, “Marazan”.
Moran, the agent for Lord Arner, is driving over the downs from a meeting when he sees a man walking in the rain.
He offers the man a ride, and soon recognizes him as a man, Lenden, he flew with during the war.
Lenden had trouble getting a job and went to Russia to train them to fly.
He had just taken photos of Portsmouth and then crashed his plane on the downs.
Moran takes him in, hunts down a job for him, and locates Lenden's wife who wants to get back together.
There is a problem with the pictures of Portsmouth, which they each try to take care of.

Shute's second book, and clearly giving evidence of the style which was to mark his greatest work. Done in the first person, So Disdained follows Shute's pattern of unscrolling his story in a linear, clear fashion. The plot turns on a fairly large number of coincidences and fortuitous events, perhaps to a greater extent than in Shute's later, more polished, stories, but it's still a satisfying morality tale built around aviation, ordinary people, and doing the right thing. Oh, and of course there are the requisite few attractive, bright and good young women as well. Great stuff!
A nice piece of historical fiction.
I enjoyed several of Shute's novels decades ago when, as a teen, I was interested in aviation and Australia.
This book, one of his earliest, provides a look at the civility of English Manor living, the hazards and versatility of World War I vintage aircraft, and the early stages of the Cold War. It was easy to read and kept me up several nights past normal bedtime.
It's a shame most of this author's works have disappeared from local library shelves.
I obtained this copy through an Inter-Library Loan from a Canadian library 3,000 miles away!
Set in England of 1927, the story concerns 2 WWI aviators, Peter Moran and Maurice Lendon, who meet up by chance one dark and stormy night. Moran is an estate agent, living a pretty quiet and ordered life; unable to succeed at anything else since the war, Lendon is involved in somewhat questionable work flying for the Soviets. The story deals with the conflict of loyalty to friends vs. your country, and the tragedy caused by uncertain or apathetic morals.
While I enjoyed the book, there were a number of instances where I was so annoyed by the main character's poor decisions that I almost wanted to look away from the page, like I often want to do when a character on a TV show is about to embarrass himself. The protagonist seemed too intelligent to get himself into such a mess.
On the cover of this book is the statement: "Over 14 million Nevil Shute books sold." Shute became hugely popular. However this story is only the second one of his to be published, first in 1928, and a number of times subsequently, and it's a great spy story/character study/romance, but clearly less mature than his later work.
I liked it. It is not exactly a midnight-oil-burning page-turner, but it was a good read. The people were complex and real and the situation escalated into one of those I-think-I-am-in-over-my-head predicaments.
I personally found the book a bit strange at first and wondered where it was all leading up to, and sorry to say was a bit disappointed with the story. But if you like to read about planes and the men who fly them you may enjoy it?
Liked it more than "Requiem for a Wren". Actually it reminded me a little bit of the end of "Lord of the Rings" in its' under-appreciated hero theme.
The first really good Nevil Shute book. I liked it more than 'Stephen Morris' and 'Marazan'.
Full review on www.vintagenovels.com soon.
