https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65840.Anne_of_Windy_Poplars
Oh Anne, you wonderfully bold and beautiful gal  Life owes me something more than it has paid me and I’m going out to collect it… I just love seeing the woman Anne's grown into. She's finished college, runs her own little school and is in constant correspondence with her fiance, Gilbert.  “Gilbert, I'm afraid I'm scandalously in love with you.”   For the first time, we have a bit of switching perspectives - Anne in third person throughout the novel and in first person as we read her letters to
I just love seeing the woman Anne's grown into.
For the first time, we have a bit of switching perspectives - Anne in third person throughout the novel and in first person as we read her letters to Gilbert.
Gilbert darling, don't let's ever be afraid of things.
--Anne interferes with someone else's love life (later realizing that things would've worked out without her influence).
Honestly Anne, it's a bit drab considering this book 4 and we get the same exact plot from book 1.
She's still the wonderful Anne that I've grown to know and love.
Too many letters & not enough Gilbert.
Possibly 3.5/5 but idk yet.I still really enjoyed this book because Anne is my FAVE, but I think the back and forth between her letters to Gilbert and third person narrative was a little bit much. I didn't really love that switch and I missed Gilbert throughout this book, though I understand why he wasn't in it!I still love Anne as a character DEARLY and I will honestly love her forever. She is so kind and compassionate and lovely and just EVERYTHING.
"Nobody is ever too old to dream.
And dreams never grow old."I see by the reviews that a lot of Anne-fans are disappointed in this one.
I think it is the lack of the "old familiar." Anne is away, serving as principal of a school in Summerside.
Gilbert is far, far away, studying medicine.
For Anne, there are too many Pringles, the "Royal Family" of Summerside.
Resenting the fact that a relative was passed over for the job that went to Anne, the Pringles seem to have organized a cabal against her.
Anne and Gilbert will be reunited in the next book, so hopefully, the old magic will be back again.
I think at the beginning I was a little skeptical, especially since Montgomery kept omitting the parts where Anne "had the right pen" to write love letters to Gilbert.
Rebecca Dew cracked me up, as did Aunt Kate and Aunt Chatty, with their buttermilk secrets; Dusty Miller the cat; Katherine Brooke; Nora Nelson and Jim Wilcox; little Elizabeth; Cyrus Taylor (oh, but that was a hilarious episode!)...and all those old ladies with bizarre quirks, like Aunt Ernestine, Miss Minerva Tomgallon (too much Dickens, quoth Anne), Mrs. Gibson...and of course all the Pringles!
Anne of Windy Poplars (Anne of Green Gables #4), L.M. Montgomeryتاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و پنجم سپتامبر سال 2009 میلادیعنوان: آنی شرلی در ویندی پاپلرز- کتاب چهارم ؛ نویسنده: ال.ام. مونتگمری؛ مترجم: سارا قدیانی؛ تهران، قدیانی، 1386؛ در 456 ص؛ شابک: 9789645365880؛ چاپ دوم، 1388؛ چاپ چهارم 1390؛ چاپ ششم 1392؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 ماین بار آن شرلی به خانهای میرود، و به مدت سه سال در آنجا ساکن میشود. این کتاب به سه بخش: سال اول، سال دوم و سال سوم، تقسیم شده و آنی در این مدت به
Anne of Windy Poplars (Anne of Green Gables #4), L.M. Montgomeryتاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و پنجم سپتامبر سال 2009 میلادیعنوان: آنی شرلی در ویندی پاپلرز- کتاب چهارم ؛ نویسنده: ال.ام.
مونتگمری؛ مترجم: سارا قدیانی؛ تهران، قدیانی، 1386؛ در 456 ص؛ شابک: 9789645365880؛ چاپ دوم، 1388؛ چاپ چهارم 1390؛ چاپ ششم 1392؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 ماین بار آن شرلی به خانه‌ای می‌رود، و به مدت سه سال در آنجا ساکن می‌شود.
اینکه: آن شرلی زوجهایی را به هم، و دختری را به پدرش میرساند، و در کتاب زبان اصلی، نامه های عاشقانه، به گیلبرت مینویسدا.
I am pretty disappointed with this one.
I mean, in comparison to the first three books in this series, this one was rather weak.
Unfortunately, it just didn't keep me interested enough to thoroughly enjoy it, even if this series is reminiscent to my childhood.The writing itself was lacking any kind of interesting description, the plot was confusing and pretty much all over the place and for me, telling the story through half written letters to Gilbert, really didn't work.I do enjoy the Anne of green gables series, and I love Anne as a character, but this little book of stories, I see to being rather unnecessary and somewhat pointless.
I mean, did I really need a book crammed with unlikeable asses?
I will finish this series despite my disappointment with this one.
It was good enough to finish.
This is a good indication of my interest level, because really great books keep me up at night until I finish them.
Anne seems to be a miracle in the life of everyone she meets, which worked okay for a book or two, but now feels like a rehashing of the same old stories with different names attached.
If it were a stand alone book, I would have liked it better, but as part of a series, it felt too redundant.
There are some interesting stories, some very funny dialogue, and some endearing (if shallowly developed) characters.

I don’t think I can give details lest I spoil a plot point for anyone who hasn’t read this book yet, but there was one character who was barely around for, like, two pages, but Montgomery still made me cry over the individual when something happened a little later.
I want to be clear that what was being talked about didn’t bother me on a moral level or anything like that, it was just…Well, if you’ve read the Anne books, you know that sometimes Montgomery allowed the characters to go off on little tangents.
Full (mini) review now posted!I have a soft spot for epistolary novels.
I love getting someone’s innermost thoughts in their own words.
This book was a hybrid, half epistolary and half regular novel.
But it’s all Anne Shirley in all of her glory, enjoying a new home and profession and conglomeration of interesting neighbors.
If I had to choose one word to describe this novel, that would would be shenanigans.
Seriously, Anne gets into so many uncomfortable, hilarious situations, and witnesses her neighbors getting into even more.
While there were a couple of sadder scenes, for the most part this novel is light and fluffy and undoubtedly funny.
So far, this is my favorite Anne book in the series.
A cast of characters that exceeded any cast in the series so far (which is hard to believe-- I know).
Anne goes to Summerside to be a principal while her betrothed Gilbert is in med school.
The book is mostly comprised of letters to Gilbert about the goings-on in Summerside.
Rebecca Dew might just be my absolute favorite character in the series so far.
My absolute favorite part of this book was the twins that Anne babysits-- their names had me cracking up for days!
I finished it.
-- The writing was...
lacking description quite a few times.
It also was all over the place.
I didn't see much need for the formatting of telling stories through the letters.
I didn't like that too much.-- It was rather pointless...
I love the Anne books and will finish the series, of course, but this was like a little book of stories I really didn't care about.
There were a ton of characters.
90% of them were totals jerks so I was speed-reading most of the time.
Overall, I didn't enjoy myself but at least it is over.
Anne is finished at College and is now the Principal of Summerside High School. She writes to her beloved Gilbert who is continuing his education to become a medical doctor. Anne shares her experiences with the colorful and eccentric folks at Summerside. This is another charming story that will delight all readers.
Please someone tell me if I'm crazy....Did Anne Shirley and a student named Lewis meet with a ghost, take a picture of him, and then when they found out he was a ghost, they took in total stride and gave the picture to his father?Did that seriously happen in this book? Or did some of my pages have LSD on them?
After reading Anne of the Island, my favorite book in the Anne series, Anne of Windy Poplars always seems to fall a little flat for me.Anne and Gilbert are engaged and while Gilbert is off at medical school, Anne has taken a job as principal at Summerside High School.Much of this book is made up of letters from Anne to Gilbert.
Anne of Windy Poplars is the book that features the Pringles but that conflict is neatly wrapped up within the first half of the book.Honestly, after reading this book, I was left thinking Anne was some kind of angel sent to fix everyones life in Summerside.
Didn't care about all the new characters, there were way too many of them and none of them stood out. They also felt pointless as it was obvious Anne would probably never hear or see from most of them again. The Summerside setting wasn't all that great either, it didn't match up to the homeyness of Green Gables/Avonlea. And when is Anne going to fully pursue her writing career? The teaching has been done to death.
Anne Shirley is without a doubt my dearest fictional friend.
My love for Anne is boundless. I was pleasantly surprised with this book. The format was different from the previous books, which helped greatly since Anne and Gilbert were separated during this novel. Honestly, the highlight for every single novel in this series is Anne. Anne, who is unapologetically herself. Anne, who triumphs over adversity. Anne, who is good and kind. Characters like her become fewer with each passing year. It's an awful thought, because we must all strive to be Anne Shirley.
Coming back to this series after two whole years was a sweet, nostalgic and much-needed punch in the feels. I was sighing with contentment the minute I started it if that’s possible. This series has been an absolute delight so far.I smiled.  “I’m glad I don’t live in Yesterday … the Tomorrow is still a friend.” I giggled.  “There go more italics! But a few italics really do relieve your feelings.” I LOL-ed.  “There used to be a stone here for his uncle Samuel, who was reported drowned at sea fif
Coming back to this series after two whole years was a sweet, nostalgic and much-needed punch in the feels.
“There go more italics!
But a few italics really do relieve your feelings.”
“There used to be a stone here for his uncle Samuel, who was reported drowned at sea fifty years ago.
It’s Anne’s account of her time teaching at a school for three years and the her day-to-day life involves mostly tea parties or dinner parties and the like.
And yet, the silliest of things that happen (mostly involving distant, demented and decrepit aunts) manage to sound wonderful and hysterical and entertaining because Anne is a sweet heart and her perception of life and people is endearing.
As much as I love L.M. Montgomery, Anne Shirley, and creative storytelling, I struggled with this book a bit.
I didn't feel like Anne telling these stories to Gilbert enhanced them very much.
Montgomery commonly inserts little episodes, adventures, and quirky characters into her narratives, but in this book they felt extra disjointed.
There almost seemed to be too many characters, and there was little tying the book together as a whole.
I loved finding lines and bits of story from the movie "Anne of Avonlea." There were a lot of great lines of dialogue.
I've said before that Emily is my favourite Montgomery heroine, and that holds.
But that doesn't mean I don't have a huge soft spot for Anne and her life.
Ordinary life is painted in such vivid and interesting colours that it leaps off the page, putting the lie to the idea that such things are beneath our proper notice.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Ok, I have loved all of the books in this series so far, however, this one was a little...how shall I say this - eh.
Eh.Anne writes lots of letters to Gilbert, but we never get to see any letters that Gil writes to her.
Also, lots of new characters are introduced in this book and I wonder how on earth Anne is going to keep up with all these people.Also, Anne has officially turned into the perfect person who changes the life of everyone she meets.
I hope the following books show more of her human side and less of her angelic perfection.
4.5 StarsI've been reading through the Anne series, but I decide to skip this one this time-again. Anne of Windy Poplars never interested me nearly as much as the other books, but once I finally read it, it was a really good book. Just not in the mood to read it this time.
While there are parts here and there that seemed slightly unnecessary to the story, I still enjoyed this one nearly as much as her others.
Montgomery fills her books with wild imaginations, quirky characters, hysterical humour, and all the while keeping with Anne's characters.
I loved how much Anne reached out and helped people in this book.
Elizabeth was such a sweet character and I loved how she always looked forward to Tomorrow <3One comment Anne made toward the end of the book was something to the effect that all roads lead to heaven.
My only problem with this was all the love letters were excluded, and I really missed Gilbert in this book.
I couldn't be happier about this, because I've been shipping these two since she cracked a slate on his head.I felt like in Windy Poplars, Anne got what she had coming.
She even unintentionally blackmailed a whole family.I think Windy Poplars is the perfect book to show the growth in Anne.
If you enjoyed the previous three books, you'll love Windy Poplars.
I'm glad I did because I'm enjoying this book so much.
This book covers the three years Gilbert is in medical school and includes selections from Anne's letters to him.I love the descriptions of Windy Poplars, the old ladies and all the new friends she's making.
I'm also really enjoying her letters to Gilbert, though I wish the "spoony" parts weren't left out, and that we could read some of Gilbert's in return.
But that's what these books do, let you see the world just through Anne's eyes.
Fortunately that is a funny, delightful world full of fascinating people the reader is glad to share.
شايد شخصيتِ اصلى اين كتاب هر كسى جز آنه شرلى بود، مرا دلزده مى كرد.
شخصيت هاى خاكسترى براى من محبوب ترند تا يك شخصيتِ كاملا سفيد و مثبت.
اينجا آنه شرلى تقريبا به ٢٥ سالگى ميرسد و من واقعا نميدانم ٢٥ سالگيم چه شكلى خواهد بود؛بنابراين درك زيادى از آن سن ندارم.حقيقتا دلم در اين كتاب براى آن اشتباهات و بدشانسى هاى آنه تنگ شد.
اين ماجراهاى ريز ريز و بامزه ى كتاب دوست داشتنى بود.شايد پنج ستاره نسبت به كتاب هاى قبلى براى اين كتاب زياد بود ولى راستش از دلم نيامد كمتر بدهم!

Oct 2018: This might be my favorite one yet, even over Anne of Green Gables!
A lot of it is her letters to Gilbert, but I have always enjoyed books that use letters to tell the story.
This one was fun too, because it would tell part of the story, then have Anne's letter to tell some part of her perspective, which I found to be charming.
I wish we had some letters back from Gilbert to Anne, because he was the only thing truly missing from this book.
My favorite part of this one was Katherine Brooke, when she goes to Green Gables with Anne.
