https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24921954-the-thousandth-floor
I have to mention this: my friend Anna who doesn't read that much (if it's not Harry Potter) read TTF and called me once she finished with a wicked book hangover.SO PROUD OF HER!
Confession time: I'm partial to the occasional trashy, chick-lit novel. You know the ones I mean. Those meaningless dramas where everyone sleeps with everyone and everyone betrays everyone and you are not required to think too hard. So when people were calling this a "futuristic Gossip Girl", that honestly didn't bother me. GG is an old guilty pleasure. Also, Chuck + Blair 4ever.That's not the problem with The Thousandth Floor. This is the problem: On the other end of the call was Atlas, her bro
Ick.I don't care that he's technically her step-brother; my issue with incest extends way beyond genetic factors.
But if you're hot for your sister, and the law says you can't sleep with her, you have billions of other options.
I read to the end to find out who falls from the tower in the prologue, but I seriously considered not finishing it the moment Avery and Atlas lock lips.
There are a lot of characters in this novel, all being young, stupid and scandalous, and I honestly quite enjoyed reading about their superficial lives, but I won't be returning for the sequel.
Wow.The Thousandth Floor is a  futuristic Gossip Girl  which would be a lot more fun if not for the vague racist stereotypes, really bad homophobia, and gross sexual harassment. At around the halfway I was actually planning to give this a 2.5 star rating and round up, just based off how addictive it was and how much I personally enjoyed it. But I'm really, really angry about that ending, and given that after over six months I despise this book more every time I think about it, I'm not at all pla
She ends the book as a completely terrible person with no character whatsoever.
♚ While I loved Eris as a character, it should be noted that she's stereotyped too - it's time for us to end the trope of 
This is really just objectively shitty worldbuilding; we're living in 2150, and you're telling me treating girls like meat is still okay?♔ Pretty much all the dude love interests are somewhat hypermasculine and vaguely creepy in my reading.
But the fact that a lot of the characters here are racial stereotypes is pretty...
3.5* (maybe even closer to a 4, so I guess 3.75*)This was a really fun, but also kind of sad, scifi read!
At times I found it difficult to keep track of who's who (maybe partially because I went the audio route for this one).
But once I got it sorted I became pretty invested in each character and how their plot line went.
I felt like no one was left behind and not given the chance at a full fledged storyline, which says a lot when you have so many characters.
The major raised eyebrow comes from the main character's love for her adopted brother, which sits rather uncomfortably for YA and in this context; but despite a few reservations, this story is surprisingly well-written and enjoyable.
This is a mystery/thriller in a futuristic setting, with cool tech that feels organic to the story and the way the characters would use them.
Despite a couple of not-insignificant issues, I think this one has a lot going for it, and I liked that it wasn't a typical fast-paced, action-heavy thriller, but more of a character-driven story with a futuristic setting.
So many different perspectives (I don't even think I read from each of them yet), very immature writing, tons of telling and not showing, and I could already tell it fed into quite a few tropes I am not a fan of.I would love to finish this book in the future because I think MAYBE I could come to love it as a trashy-YA story, but I'm happily putting it down for now.
I'm definitely a bit disappointed with how little I enjoyed the beginning of the story.
i love my YA books like i love drama - wild, reckless, and over-the-top.
seriously, this book/series is soooo underrated and its a tragedy.now, dont get me wrong.
the writing is relatively simplistic and the overall tone feels young, but that totally works for this type of story.
its serving me drama, dangerous flirtations, over-privileged kids who dont think before they act.
its so unique with its sci-fi-esque world building, it has great character arcs, and dont forget all the DRAMA.
it is the very definition of a guilty pleasure series but, somehow, i dont feel too guilty about enjoying it.↠ 4 stars
all he knew was that the girl was the first person to fall from the Tower in its twenty-five years. He didn't know who she was, or how she'd gotten outside.He didn't know whether she'd fallen, or been pushed, or whether - crushed by the weight of unspoken secrets - she'd decided to jump. I know the book comparisons get old, but think futuristic  Gossip Girl. I was pleased with how excellent the drama was. Definitely one of those guilty pleasure type books. What elevated things for me was the in
I know the book comparisons get old, but think futuristic  Gossip Girl.
Set in New York City in the year 2118 - a world like you've never seen before!
This world is very expansive..The story starts with the inevitable end: a girl falling off the Tower from a party on the thousandth floor.
Can Leda keep her secret addiction under control amidst the chaos the Tower brings her?Rylin lives on the thirty-second floor with her younger sister.
If you've enjoyed anything by  Sara Shepard,  Private,  Gossip Girl,  Emancipated,  Unrivaled, or any series like these, you'll fall in love with the world Katharine McGee created.
DNF. If you're into Gossip Girl or Pretty Little Liars this might be your thing, but I'm kind of over that sort of petty drama right now. The characters annoyed me too much to continue & I genuinely did not care about the plot of pointless rich people problems. Super irritating all around. There were 5 POVs and I didn't like or connect with any of them. Thank you to the publisher for sending me an ARC!
All the characters in the book live in a giant tower located in New York city.
Never has a book ending made me so absolutely livid!
After I slept on it, I realized that the fact that I felt so passionately about the end and that I cared so much for the character that wound up on the ground means that the author did a damn good job with making me invested.
It's driving me crazy not to grab the second book right away to see what happens next.
-You like stories that hinge on lies, frenemies, and revenge.-You like books with enough POVs that even when you really hate one character/situation, there are plenty of others to get invested in to balance it out.You might not like this if:-You dislike stories about privileged rich kids doing drugs upon drugs out of boredom.-You're skeeved out that one of the characters has a crush on their adopted sibling that they grew up with.
I may have missed other identifiers.It took me about halfway in to get into this because I was so grossed out by the sibling crush, but then I got invested in the other characters.
The concept sounded interesting so I figured I would give it a try.You might look at this YA teen drama and say to yourself, “Matthew, this doesn’t seem like your type of book!” Well, I do like to dabble in the teen drama a bit – I blame my years of watching Degrassi for keeping a nostalgic corner of my heart for the genre.
;) I often notice that the next two books in a trilogy tend to rate better than the first.
When I started this book I wasn’t that into it tbh.
I struggled a little bit for about 75ish pages but then I was HOOKED.
It reminded me so much of Gossip Girl but a little bit darker and I honestly could not put it down.
I really enjoyed all the characters but I’d have to say Watt is probably my favourite but I definitely love Rylin and Avery also.
I was pretty set on it being something else and I was wrong and that left me pretty damn impressed tbh.
Such an amazing book if you’re into shows like Gossip Girl and enjoy high society teen drama.
This book is perfect for Gossip Girl fans! I loved it. Now I just need the next one! Blog | Twitter | Facebook | Instagram | Pinterest
“Up here on the roof, so close to the stars, she felt young and alive and hateful.” Hateful is a little harsh but annoying certainly fits the bill; it’s very hard for me to finish a book and not find a single character likable but alas, here we have it. Still, there were a couple of elements that made me like this book, and tons that didn't. If you like gossipy high school-ish petty drama this book might be for you, but I'll leave it up to you dear reader whether or not to embark on a 400+ page
• The technology described in the book doesn’t sound far-fetched and maybe actually achievable in the future; I loved it when she talked about the gadgets they all used, and kept thinking to myself “Damn I wish those were around now.” (The hologram that enables you to try on outfits without having to move a single muscle was my particular favorite).• The tower concept is also very cool and not something I’ve read about before, I loved the fact that it had absolutely everything in it, from aquariums to pieces of Central Park.
Cons:• The characters, not a *single* salvageable one - except maybe Maribel (but this remains to be seen in the next book because she has very little scenes in this one); I hated them all a little and for different reasons, but at the end of the day they were all 100% SHALLOW.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.)  “Was she ready for this – ready to come back here and face everything that had sent her into a tailspin in the first place?”  This was a YA futuristic story, about a group of teenagers living in a thousand-floor tower in New York City. Avery was a girl who lived at the top of the tower, and had a crush on the one person she couldn’t possibly be with – her adopted brother A
Eris, Avery’s other best friend, also lived near the top of the tower, and very quickly found out that he father wasn’t her biological father, and ended up moving to a much lower level apartment with her mother.
We then got a surprise about who her biological father really was, which shook things up a bit, and we also got a romantic storyline involving Eris and a girl who lived near her new apartment.
Watt was a hacker who basically had an AI type thing in his head which was totally illegal, was hired by Leda to try and track Atlas, and developed a bit of a crush on Avery, which was pretty hopeless because of the whole Avery-Atlas-Leda love triangle.
I actually really enjoyed the plot twists and the relationships were well crafted! The story definitely gave off dark gossip girl like vibes and it was absolutely thrilling to read :)
They say that before death, people’s lives flash before their eyes. But as the ground rushed ever faster toward her, the girl could think only of the past few hours, the path she’d taken that ended here. If only she hadn’t talked to him. If only she hadn’t been so foolish. If only she hadn’t gone up there in the first place. THIS BOOK IS A FREAKING TREAT!When I first added it to my tbr, months ago, I would have never imagined it to suck me in the way it did. I basically devoured it and with eve
What's more important than that?!Sometimes all you need is to read a book that won't teach you a flipping beep but that's juicy interesting just the same.
Sometimes all you need is to read a book that allows you to act like a little spy into someone else's amazing (and totally fucked-up) life.
Sometimes all you need is to read a book packed with intrigues, teen drama, futuristic technology and Gossip Girl-like scenarios.
I could say it is an lazy touch to give, but ultimately it is the safe bet to make when the relationships and drama is the central point of the story, not the character growth and the world building itself.
I have been bored of the typical addiction trope to be the following: an ordinary boy or a girl tries drugs, gets hooked, screws up and is miserable, everyone is helping or no one is helping, rehab comes and happy ending.
Helping - what a nice word in a fantasy land where an addict is not a slave to their mind that can't handle the real world without substances.
Me ha gustado desde el primer capítulo hasta el último. Cada personaje me ha absorbido por completo, su historia, su vida, y como con giros increíbles todo se va complicando cada vez más, algo que hacía que cada vez me sintiera más y más enganchada hasta llegar a unos capítulos finales que te dejarán con la boca abierta. Un libro que me ha encantado por completo y al que espero poder leer su continuación porque se ha quedado increíble. Reseña: http://rubiesliterarios.blogspot.com/...
3.5 stars This book was such a lovely guilty pleasure. Like treating yourself to a lazy reading day even though you have a lot of work to do; you know you shouldn't, but you don't really care, and you enjoy every second of it. If you've read a couple of reviews on this book already, you've probably already heard what everyone else is saying - that this book is basically a futuristic version of Gossip Girl and Pretty Little Liars. Which is true, to some extent. I don't normally enjoy reading boo
Like treating yourself to a lazy reading day even though you have a lot of work to do; you know you shouldn't, but you don't really care, and you enjoy every second of it.
I don't normally enjoy reading books about petty rich people problems.
She can't help but look with utter disdain at the people who live on the highest floors.
It was a bit Gossip Girl-like in the way that everyone was sleeping with everyone and even the most innocent people were hiding unspeakable secrets, but I enjoyed most of the characters and their arcs nonetheless.
It's 7am and I didn't slept at all because I couldn't stop reading. I loved it.
And it’s not just a brief mention, in fact most of the book is centered around this and the drama and the fall out from it.I wasn’t particularly interested in any of the characters either, I felt like they got pretty boring really fast.
Avery pines away for Atlas, Leda and Watt who start dating them wonder why they’re aloof, Eris starts dating someone from a lower floor and Rylin starts dating Cole.
*3.5I'm so conflicted about my feelings for this book...
I honestly don't know what I'm feeling right now xDSuper fast review:The diversity in this book was great though like that part was amazing.
I wasn't expecting that.
The ending was totally unexpected like damn I need the next book RN The futuristic setting was cool too.The complicated, interwoven way these characters pushed together was brilliant.I didn't really like any of the characters though.
I wasn't 100% into the story.
I will be reading the sequel though probably because I'm intrigued enough with these characters to read another story about them...
The Tower sounds very cool.In this book, readers will follow 5 high school students: Leda Cole, Eris Dodd-Radson, Rylin Myers, Watt Bakradi, and Avery Fuller.
Leda turns to drugs when the guy she likes left, Eris finds out her life was a lie, Rylin couldn’t be with the guy she loved because of what she did, Watt is a tech genius and does hacking to make extra money, and Avery who is perfect in every way but is still unhappy.
This book is written in third person point of view and readers will get to follow all 5 characters.
It has SUCH a great representation of a variety of characters, in a way I've hardly ever seen before.My main problems with this was the lack of worldbuilding, and the sexist attitudes from the male highliers (aka people who live on the highest floors) who went by unnoticed.Seeing as this is a futuristic, slightly sci-fi novel, the reader needs worldbuilding to understand the story better.
Reseña -> http://thewordsofbooks.blogspot.com.e...«Cuando descubres que la persona en la que más confiabas del mundo se ha pasado toda la vida mintiéndote, las excusas no significan nada.»OMG el final.... y en serio como odio a cierta personita odiosa y repelente!!! Madre mía, a ver como se da en el segundo libro porque lo quiero yaaaaaaaaa!!!
After reading the very first page, I knew that I was going to love this story.The Thousandth Floor is set in the year 2118 in none other than New York City.
Yet their stories all come together at the end.Avery lives on the 1,00th floor, which means that she's the richest and the most popular.
But he begins struggling once he's brought into the crazy life of the highliers.Rylin lives on the 32nd floor and is the poorest of them all.
Nunca un autor me había dicho algo, estoy gritando y más porque #sorrynotsorry pero amo a Leda es mi personaje favorito del libro.Review:Tenia mucha incertidumbre al leer este libro, ya que había leído muchas opiniones mixtas.Pero me alegro de haberme atrevido a leerlo, ya que es uno de los mejores libros que he leído en el año.Sin duda la mejor parte del libro es la ambientación tecnológica en la que esta ambientada la historia, leer sobre todas esas novedades tecnológicas fue muy grato.Después es que el libro esta narrado por 5 distintos personajes, pero lo malo es que la narración en todos los personajes era básicamente igual, que a veces te confundes quien esta narrando, por lo cual creo que la autora desaprovecha mucho material ahí.Los personajes están muy bien construidos, pero lamentablemente no sucedió lo mismo con las parejas, lo siento pero con ninguna pareja conecte, ni me creí ningún romance en algún momento.
I loved her crazy and I can't wait to see what she will give me in the next book.Then there's Avery, who was so god damn annoying.
Plus Leda was like crazy obsessed with him and he was in love with his "sister" - again, gross.Besides all of that, the person who died..
Other than all of that, I can't wait to dive into the next book and see what these crazy kids are going to give me next.___________________________________________________________"A thousand-story tower stretching into the sky.
I want a strong and sturdy tower bitches.This book was really good!
Seriously, go get this book so you can falling in and out of love with characters.
