https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35959994-a-note-of-explanation
Videorecensione: https://youtu.be/J37Y4svwa7A
This book is absolutely beautiful. A short but completely enchanting story, classy and whimsical, accompanied by gorgeous art deco inspired artwork.
A charming little book with wonderful illustrations. This book is a story about Queen Mary's dollhouse, which, by itself, is an amazing work of art. In the library, there are miniature books, one of which contains this tale about the dollhouse itself. The last few pages explain how the story ended up in the dollhouse, and why was the author commissioned to write a book for the dollhouse library.
Per il suo "trasferimento" a Londra non poteva che scegliere la casa di bambole, e fedele al principio di adattarsi sempre alle mode del tempo e del luogo, eccola come una moderna donna degli anni '20, con le tuniche, le gonne corte e l'immancabile caschetto nero.
Il volume è impreziosito dalle meravigliose e dettagliatissime illustrazioni di Kate Baylay (di seguito, qualche esempio) che riporta in vita l'atmosfera degli anni '20, ritraendo lo spirito nelle sue attività quotidiane, e concedendosi anche qualche incursione nelle fiabe menzionate nel testo.
A curio - a whimsical story of a fairy who lives in a doll's house belonging to Queen Mary (wife of King George V). This would make a lovely gift to any child or those of us who admire the works of this author - the art-deco illustrations are gorgeous. A little treat.
Mlle Alice, pouvez-vous nous raconter votre rencontre avec Les Secrets et Enchantements de la Maison de Poupée de la Reine d'Angleterre ?
Quand j'ai vu la beauté de cet ouvrage illustré, allié à la plume de Vita, je me suis dit qu'il ferait bien joli dans ma bibliothèque et je remercie grandement Grasset Jeunesse d'avoir eu la gentillesse de me l'envoyer."Dites-nous en un peu plus sur son histoire...
Il me rappelle celui écrit par la Reine Victoria enfant, les Aventures d'Alice Laselles, que j'avais ramené d'Angleterre (et si Grasset voulez bien le traduire d'ailleurs, ça ferait une jolie collection !).
This was just lovely. A previously unpublished story by Vita Sackville-West, written for the tiny library in Queen Mary's doll house at Windsor Castle, deliciously-illustrated in Art Deco style, this slim volume tells the story of a dollhouse "spirit" that has spent her life galavanting around the world throughout time before settling in the miniature world of this dollhouse made for the queen of England. Delightful and a beautiful collector's piece.
YOU GUYS. Do you like being delighted by bizarre, niche pieces of art? This is just about the oddest thing I've come across in quite some time. All you need to know is that this was written in a miniature book that lives in a doll house alongside other, miniature, fully-realized pieces of writing. If that doesn't pique your interest, I'm not sure what you are, but probably not human.
Wasn't too keen on the actual story but the story behind the story is fascinating. This book is a found story. The original copy is postage stamp sized and located in the famous Queen Mary's Dollhouse in Windsor Castle. It was been reprinted here as a full sized book. Very cool to think about what other stories may be lurking in the small pages of the dollhouse bookshelves.
This is such a special, beautiful little book. I was fascinated by Queen Victoria’s dollhouse when I visited Windsor Castle, so it’s a special treat to get to read the book written for the dollhouse’s library, especially when accompanied by such lovely illustrations.
Just like—such a sweet little book with beautiful illustrations. Well-made and very fun to read
While the story is a lovely tale, it is the story behind this story that is the most fascinating!
pretty and witty.
A charming story recently "found" and illustrated with some wonderful art. There is even a portrait of Vita hidden in plain view on one of the pages.
Great illustrations and an imaginative story. The history of the doll house and the tiny books by famous writers is fascinating.
