https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11437718-magic-inc
Like most businesses in this town, he hires wizards to do bits of magic here and there to help get the job done.
As the story opens, he's approached by a guy coming in with a protection racket: "sign up and agree to hire only the wizards that belong to my Association, and we guarantee that quality services will be rendered.
(Don't agree, and we'll burn down your warehouse.)" Meanwhile, the wizards are being pressured to join this Association: "pay us your membership dues, or you won't be getting work in this town." The businessman gets a lawyer, goes to court, and also works on his own to foil this nefarious plan.I could actually see this story being used in a class to explain racketeering, 'protection' scams, monopolies, and why anti-trust regulations are important.
The story itself is a pleasant bit of fantasy by the dean of science fiction about the (literal) Under World trying to monopolize the use of magic in California in the then-near-future.“[Laws] can’t keep crooks from carrying guns and using them; they simply took guns out of the hands of honest people.”The protagonist is an “everyman” building contractor, who uses occasional magic on his jobs.
That Heinlein sheds most prejudices of his day, but perpetuates another is noticeable … and sad.“[A Jewish character] could smell a profit even farther than I [a Scot] could.”“Most women in the United States have a short-sighted, peasant individualism resulting from the male-created romantic traditions of the last century.”Heinlein the iconoclastic and the master story teller is evident on every page of this short novel.
Como seria um mundo onde a magia domina todos os sectores da sociedade?
Bem...não muito diferente,a corrupção e ambição na política seria exactamente igual e a máfia continuaria a ter sotaque siciliano.
Heinlein, a forma como nos apresenta a realidade alternativa das suas histórias é sem dúvida um exemplo a seguir, ele mostra-nos em vez de nos dizer e até á última página há coisas novas para descobrir.
A intriga política foi mais complexa do que esperava, tendo-se tornado até um pouco confusa.
Fez-me até lembrar o Ministério da Magia do mundo de Harry Potter e de como seria numa versão mais negra.
The story itself is a pleasant bit of fantasy by the dean of science fiction about the (literal) Under World trying to monopolize the use of magic in California in the then-near-future.“[Laws] can’t keep crooks from carrying guns and using them; they simply took guns out of the hands of honest people.”The protagonist is an “everyman” building contractor, who uses occasional magic on his jobs.
That Heinlein sheds most prejudices of his day, but perpetuates another is noticeable … and sad.“[A Jewish character] could smell a profit even farther than I [a Scot] could.”“Most women in the United States have a short-sighted, peasant individualism resulting from the male-created romantic traditions of the last century.”Heinlein the iconoclastic and the master story teller is evident on every page of this short novel.
What may be one of the first examples of what would come to be called urban fantasy, this is Heinlei
¿Y si la magia se empleara cotidianamente en la industria y los negocios? Una premisa muy interesante y que comienza bastante bien, con un nudo en el que se sumerge en el sistema político estadounidense (que puede resultar un poco tedioso para algunos lectores) y un final a mi parecer bastante abrupto. La historia se hace un tanto corta; si el desarrollo hubiese tomado otro cauce o la plasmación de las cámarillas políticas enganchara más sin duda habría merecido unos cuantos capítulos adicionales.
Não vale a pena perder tempo a ler este livro: é maçador e desatualizado.
I didn't know what to expect from this one. Heinlein is known for science fiction adventure involving a cast of rugged individualists overcoming the odds and creating their own destinies. So magic? Well, if you think of magic as science, it works! As not to give up the plot I'll just say, I can imagine a teenage aspiring writer reading Magic, Inc. and growing up to become Larry Correia.
Meh
Despite various controversies Robert A.
Heinlein is considered one of the fathers of American science fiction.
I have never read anything by this author and I was eager to read this novellette when it was sent to me as part of the retro-Hugo award packet.The story is entertaining, original, and well-written but there are some sexist comments that rendered the book hard to like for me.
They are so bad that it is not clear if they are intended as a satirical critique of the sexist attitudes of the time, or not.
I will try to read some of his most celebrated work next time!
(I am only reviewing the titular novella)This novella is an excellent example of how a fantasy setting can be used to tell a variety of stories, and not just the usual sword-and-sorcery adventure which is most commonly associated to the genre.While the story is interesting and very well written (not even the Italian translation, which as I've stated again and again is usually clunky as hell, managed to spoil it), it has some flaws, especially in character building: while you glimpse interesting facets in all the characters, the limited length doesn't really allow to explore such a large cast.It also has a sexist streak, although tamer than in other works from the period.
Avete mai letto, o sperato di leggere, "La casa nuova", "La nostra bella città" e "Anonima Stregoni"?
Oggi per i lettori di sf sono classici imperdibili, ma per un veterano della fantascienza plausibile e tecnologica come Heinlein, concedersi quattro passi a contatto con il brivido e l'ignoto rappresentava una sfida...
Che un viaggiatore di commercio venda elefanti, che la magia sia regolata da leggi ferree come quelle della fisica o che una casa a quattro dimensioni apra le sue finestre sull'Altrove assoluto sono solo i particolari di una macchina narrativa assolutamente logica e rigorosa.
Per quanto raccapriccianti, sono pur sempre storie del possibile anche queste.
A classic from Heinlein that I finally got around to reading.
It was an interesting story basically taking place in a modern, 20th Century locale, but where magic also exists and is used in many facets of business.
This tale delves into some of the bureaucracy which of course ultimately grows around it, and how it begins to affect the main character, and what he goes through to fight it.It was kind of a Fantasy book of a different sort for me.
But overall, I thought it was pretty entertaining, and would recommend it to someone looking to read a story along those lines.
Heinlein is pretty much always a worthwhile read.
Un libro un tanto extraño, a mi parecer, tomando en cuenta que fue concebido por el mismo autor de Starship Troopers.La historia se desarrolla en un mundo donde la magia funciona y ha sido incorporada a los diferentes ambitos de la vida cotidiana y a los trabajos en general.Empieza con un intento de extorcion para despues tornarse en todo un plan maestro para apoderarse por completo del control sobre la magia por medio de las leyes, con todo y abogados, votaciones y demas.Interesante pero un tanto aburrido.
There is a definite plot construction for Heinlein's early work, with great skilled individuals being kept down by THE MAN (whether that be government, corporations, unions etc.) and them working out how to solve the problem. This is very much in this vein, simply replacing science with magic. It is interesting that this one ties it to politics (specifically the gun control debate and The Sullivan Act), however the later reveal makes it rather incoherent. At that same time, the romance plot is just odd. Another one just for his fans.
Heinlein con Anonima stregoni ha messo in piedi un fantasy più che discreto: notevole la prima metà (la descrizione di un mondo imprenditoriale imbevuto di magia è molto divertente), un po' noiosa la seconda parte (onestamente l'excursus politico-burocratico mi ha annoiato dopo poche pagine). In generale un romanzo godibile, da recuperare anche solo per apprezzare un Grande della fantascienza cimentarsi in un campo poco famigliare.
Retro Hugo Award Finalist (1940)This is a rare foray into fantasy for Heinlein, an early "urban fantasy" that uses fantasy tropes to illustrate one of Heinlein's typical problem-solving men. It's an entertaining enough story, but it's fairly predictable if you know how Heinlein writes. One thing that mars the story considerably is some racist language.
No sé, me costó seguirle el hilo pues toma diversas temáticas en una misma trama secuencial. Creo que lo leeré cuando de verdad esté mejor concentrado y no perderme en tantos contextos sobre la historia.
A unique and fun read.
Perhaps the least expected story by Heinlein. If you've read any of his other fiction, you will not see this coming.
#28 1987
es un libro raro, pero muy agradable de leer. Se puede interpretar de muchas formas existiendo paralelismos con nuestra realidad en cualquier época. Recomendado
