https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8694.Life_the_Universe_and_Everything
In the US version of the third novel of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Life, the Universe and Everything, the word 'Belgium' is used to replace the word "fuck" which was in the British publication.Apparently Douglas Adams' American publishers thought that some of the language in the book was too crude for Americans and asked him to take out the words 'fuck', 'asshole' and 'shit'.
Adams' replaced asshole with kneebiter, shit with swut and fuck with Belgium!
Arthur Dent finds himself living alone on prehistoric Earth, in a cold, damp cave.
His friend Ford Prefect, bored, has wandered off early without saying a word, to Africa, Arthur learns later.
A spaceship landed in front of Arthur's dull cave, and coming down the ramp a tall gray- green alien stranger said, "You're a jerk , Dent".
Ironically, the old retired planet builder's spaceship (but first landing on a cricket match, in London), only to discover the Planet Krikkit, wants to destroy the whole Universe, again...ouch .They must prevent them somehow but how ?
I'm getting very bored of this series. While I like the characters and I understand the humour, I'm not laughing. I read these novels with a smile, not a smirk.
(view spoiler)[ the passage is referring to the troubles with immortality that Wowbagger the Infinitely Prolonged is experiencing, but for me it has an universal resonance with regard to my own empty and dark weekends with nothing to do  (hide spoiler)]Escape comes in the unusual form of a galloping Chesterfield sofa, but readers familiar with the style of Douglas Adams already know to be prepared for the unexpected and to always have a towel handy before they embark on a new adventure.
42? Really? I don't think so!
Much of what aims to pass for characteristic Adams whimsy feels perfunctory, and the string of coincidences that form the crux of the plot are truly slapdash.The highlights for me here are Wowbagger the Infinitely Prolonged's perpetual misanthropy and what amounts to the only real meat of the book--the story of the reason why the ultimate question and answer of the universe are (putatively) mutually exclusive.
This is why he's a better read if you're comparing the two as I feel prone to do, and one of several reasons I'm not too concerned with making it through last installments in this series.All of that being said, I have to say that the ending is pretty simpatico with me.
There is a way of looking at quantum mechanics - the so-called Many Worlds Interpretation - which, roughly, means that everything which might have happened actually did happen in some alternate universe.
Greene, and other people you can easily find on the Web, say that the MWI is in fact the simplest and most natural way to give intuitive significance to the mathematics of quantum physics; the traditional "Copenhagen interpretation" due to Niels Bohr and his colleagues is close to mysticism when you try to pin it down, since it makes the human observer an integral part of physics.
I'm feeling some series fatigue after binge-reading this and the second book over the weekend. I don't know if this was indeed a weaker/more confusing volume or was it just the fact that too much of a good thing can sometimes be bad. Either way, I had some difficulty finishing it and I think I won't be reading the 4th and 5th book anytime soon. It gets 3 stars (2,5 actually) because despite it being really confusing and at time frustrating, it still had a lot of fun and hilarious moments.
this is the last book in the series that I really enjoyed and I almost wish Douglas Adams would have called it quits here.
The book gives us the chance to laugh at ourselves in going back to prehistoric earth and Adams alternate view of how we ended up the creatures we are, that was extremely clever.But Krikkit was the best part, this story was amazing and I can't help but wonder if Adams religous views are at work here.
Also, the characters flaws have become exagerrated by this time and the things that made them interesting characters but people you wouldn't want to know, has now made all of them a little annoying.
As a continuation of Douglas Adams' famous The Hitchiker's Guide Series this was, as indicated by the foreword, one of the most plotted in the series.
But as also indicated by the foreword, you don't read The Hitchiker's Guide Series for the plots.
When you think you've got him figured out, that's when you realise that actually you haven't.I read elsewhere when attempting to discover what I could about the literary idea of 'deus-ex-machina' that while it is generally frowned upon as poor storytelling that Adams was able to use it brilliantly for humour.
"One thing has suddenly ceased to lead to another".
They do things exactly the same there".
"One of the least benightedly unintelligent organic lifeforms it has been my profound lack of pleasure not be able to avoid meeting" (Boris took that idea with "I couldn't possibly fail to disagree with you less").Brief summary and favourite quotes from the other four of the five books, as follows:Hitchhiker's Guide (vol 1): http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Restaurant at the End of Universe (vol 2): http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...So Long, and Thanks for all the Fish (vol 4): http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Mostly Harmless (vol 5): http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...And Another Thing...(vol 6), by Eoin Colfer : https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
As fun and silly as the previous instalments. The best part was that random guy going around insulting everyone.
Maybe 2.5 stars. Half the time I didn't understand what the hell was happening. These books are usually a little crazy and over the top, but this one was specially weird. I'm giving it a 3 star rating, because of the audiobook. Martin Freeman's narration made this really enjoyable and I laughed out loud a lot of times. Arthur is still an amazing character, not much change about the way he's written but still my favorite.
I appreciate Douglas Adams a bit more each time that I read him.
This was unsurprisingly lovely and funny and very enjoyable.
I don't think I really noticed it before, but reading through this I kept finding myself thinking that Douglas Adams could easily have been a very successful "serious" writer too, if he had wanted to be one.
He's a wonderful writer, and there are a couple of turns of phrases throughout this book that are really beautiful.
They'll be immediately undercut by something funny or ridiculous, but that only makes them stronger.This one needed more Zaphod Beeblebrox, though.
Simplemente una lectura inteligente, ingeniosa, divertida, ocurrente, cruel, tierna, crítica y fabulosa. Me ha encantado este episodio de la Guía. Si el algún momento del Restaurante del fin de Mundo llegué a desconectar, no me ocurrido con la Vida, el universo y todo lo demás. Me sentía como Alicia en el universo de las Maravillas.
Çok iyi gitmiyor mu ya, evet çok iyi gidiyor. Gelsin devamı...
Finally, after five minutes of talk about the weather, current events and 'how ya doin' pleasantries with little to show, Ua went to her trump card; 'Mr. Wowbagger.' She began “you're legendary for your quest to insult the universe; who doesn't still laugh when they hear 'knee-biter'” She turned to the audience, who applauded.'So we've asked you to come with a few insults prepared.
After the cheer died down but before Ua could move the conversation forward, the dulcet voice of Morgan Freeman echoed through the momentary pause '… the primary takeaway is that Life, the Universe and Everything isn't all that it's cracked up to be.''That's what I said' a metallic voice droned from inside the escape-pod.'Is that...' Ua turned suddenly giddy.
Audiobook.
How can you go wrong with the zany mind of author Douglas Adams? Arthur, living alone on prehistoric Earth, decides happily to himself that he will go mad and announces it to the empty world. Ford, who unexpectedly reappears after being gone for four years, tells Arthur that he went mad for a while and it did him a lot of good. I loved Ford’s description of his bout of self-imposed madness:  “And then I decided I was a lemon for a couple of weeks. I kept myself amused all that time jumping in an
That’s only the first few pages of the book…Maybe it’s the Mathematician in me, but how can you not love the theory of the non-absolute number for the given time of arrival: 
I doubt there are any other books out there that feature conversations between mattresses and robots.
It’s all so very random.I wish I could share with you the entry on how to fly inside the Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy, but I really don’t want to spoil it for you in case you read the book yourself.
The madness must be shared!
Wasn’t much into the plot with the planet Krikkit. Too much going on. You get Douglas’s usual lovely nonsense and chaos, but in this book it goes too far. Too much nonsense and chaos, and so some of the joy and humor is lost. Enjoyed Agrajag and the weirdness of Arthur’s having killed him accidentally and that being tied to Arthur’s fate. Also loved the silliness of Arthur learning how to fly and the couch on the cricket field being a space time eddy.
It turns out it takes little more than a moment's questioning to burst our preconceptions at the seams, yet rarely does this stop us from treating the most ludicrous things as if they were perfectly reasonable.It is no surprise that famed atheist Richard Dawkins found a friend and ally in Adams.
By showing a universe that makes no sense and having his characters constantly question it, Adams is subtly hinting that this is the natural human state, and the fact that we laugh and sympathize shows that it must be true.It's all a joke, it's all ridiculous.
My rating simply reflects my enjoyment of the novel. I get the humor, but I didn't laugh. There were several clever little plot sequences and lines, but nothing much more than that, it seems. The first book presented some great ideas. The second book presented, more or less, two good ideas. The third book... I couldn't find anything worthwhile. Please do comment below if you noticed something I didn't, because I really don't want to set down this book without gaining anything from it.
It's all just a game of cricket25 October 2016 - Clifton Hill I'm going to have to be honest here and admit that I really wasn't all that impressed with this book. In fact the story was originally meant to be a six part Doctor Who series which was rejected by the producers, and I can see why – it just really didn't seem to be what I would expect from Doctor Who. Okay, the Doctor can be pretty tongue in cheek at times, and while there are suggestions that some Earth practices have extra-terrestri
In fact the story was originally meant to be a six part Doctor Who series which was rejected by the producers, and I can see why – it just really didn't seem to be what I would expect from Doctor Who. Okay, the Doctor can be pretty tongue in cheek at times, and while there are suggestions that some Earth practices have extra-terrestrial origins, the who idea of cricket being a reflection of a huge intergalactic war really doesn't seem to fit well with the genre.
I was surprised that Douglas Adams avoided the Sequel Effect for his actual sequel to Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy (Restaurant at the End of the Universe), but am less surprised to see it afflict Book 3 in the series.LIfe, the Universe and Everything is a good enough sequel, but it’s most clearly a sequel, amping up the bizzaro humor and gratuitous nonsense of the first two books while adding more of a plot.
Overall, it feels just a bit off – almost as if someone was writing really good Hitchhiker’s Guide fanfic.
Hab leider des Öfteren den Faden und die Lust am Weiterlesen verloren. Der vorherigen Bücher gefallen mir bis jetzt besser.
The third entry in the Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy series probably has the most coherent plot of all five books, for what that’s worth.
Unlike the other books in the series, where the characters often seem to meander around the galaxy at random, this book features a clear set of antagonists and a relatively clear goal: stop the robots and their masters from universal annihilation.
While I can only recommend books four and five with reservations, Life, the Universe and Everything should be very satisfying for anyone who enjoyed The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy.
The really amazing thing is that this series went two entire books before it even really needed to happen, and no one really seems to care, because the first two books are so entertaining without any real plotline tying all of the random events together in them.
Just that combined with the flying that takes place afterward makes up my favorite scene in the entire series.
Adams manages to make fun of not just those who don't understand the game of cricket, but those who understand and enjoy it all at the same time, which takes talent.
The first book made sense and I met my new love: Marvin the Paranoid Android.
In this third installment, there is less of Marvin and more saving-the-universe type action.
I constantly feel like Arthur Dent with all these things and new concepts being thrown at me from the lips of the author (he read the audiobook version) and I don't even know what to think, all I do is react to the story...maybe I should try flying and think about these stories at the crucial moment (this part will make sense if you read the book).To sum it up, I liked the book and now I want a Marvin plush doll.
I'm not sure there has ever been a point to any of this, but this one seemed to lose any sign of cohesive narration toward the end.
Again, it ended abruptly & on a cliff hanger.
Still kind of funny at odd moments, but so pointless as to be tiring.
I thought I'd try one more & queued it up, but then found some better books at the library.
I think I've spent enough time on this series.
I now get many of the references FWIW.
There are far too many better things to do.
Still funny, still absurd, still pretty deep really, but Adams was definitly starting to lose some of the threads here. This is the first one where I found myself asking, "wait, what?". There are some pretty decent time jumps between chapters that will leave eyebrows waggling in confusion. But, there ARE still some really great pieces, I'm particularly fond of bistro math.
