https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/217983.A_Tomb_for_Boris_Davidovich
Minimo (massimo) comune denominatore: dolore, odio, prevaricazione.Si tratta di sette biografie ricostruite, ma forse anche inventate, con scrittura densa, che non dimentica l’ironia - col risultato di sembrare vere più della Storia stessa: Si può dire che il libro consegue una comprensione estetica là dove l’etica fallisce.
La letteratura è forse l’unico strumento che abbiamo a disposizione per conoscere quei fenomeni la cui portata altrimenti ottunderebbe i nostri sensi e sfuggirebbe alla nostra comprensione.Aleksandra JankovicDanilo Kiš era jugoslavo ed è morto prima del violento smembramento del suo paese: nessuno dei personaggi del suo libro è jugoslavo, e di quella terra non si fa menzione.
The first few stories ease you in, brutal as they are, and then, almost quietly, the book begins to expand and reach forward and backward in time, and the violence of the Soviet regime begins a kind of timeless echoing, and Kiš achieves a sort of universalizing of terror- that fascistic, authoritarian horror is a sorry offspring of humanity simply being human- from religious persecution to anti-religious fervor, this is a part of who we are that we have not yet had the courage, willpower, or imagination to expunge.The final three stories, “A Tomb for Boris Davidovich”, “Dogs and Books”, and “The Short Biography of A.A. Darmolotov”, enlarge Kiš’ lament into a hurricane-like sprawl.
And they will find your breaking point.You want dark?"Boris Davidovich," he said to Novsky, "I'm afraid that you must be out of your mind.
You'll bury us all with your plea." Novsky answered him with a strange expression on his face, which seemed to be a shadow of a smile.
A photograph of his scrotum, the size of the biggest collective farm pumpkin, is also reprinted in foreign medical books, wherever elephantiasis (elephantiasis nostras) is mentioned, and as a moral for writers that to write one must have more than big balls.
This passage, for example, which is as dark as anything in the works of László Krasznahorkai struck me as having a peculiar kind of grace to it:...the provincial bleakness of the Middle European towns at the turn of the century emerges clearly from the depths of time: the gray, one-story houses with back yards that the sun in its slow journey divides with a clear line of demarcation into quarters of murderous light and damp, mouldy shade resembling darkness; the rows of black locust trees which at the beginning of spring exude, like thick cough syrups and cough drops, the musky smell of childhood diseases; the cold, baroque gleam of the pharmacy where the Gothic of the white porcelain glitters; the gloomy high school with the paved yard (green, peeling benches, broken swings resembling gallows, and whitewashed wooden outhouses); the municipal building painted Maria-Theresa yellow, the color of the dead leaves and autumn roses from ballads played at dusk by the gypsy band in the open-air restaurant of the Grand Hotel.It is impossible to stop anywhere in that passage because it is so complete, and so well translated by Duska Mikic-Mitchell.
In Danilo Kiš’s style I’ve seen a perceptible influence of Isaac Babel and also his stories are spiced with some Varlam Shalamov’s overtones.But thematically A Tomb for Boris Davidovich goes as a sequel to A Universal History of Iniquity by Jorge Luis Borges… Those who play revolutionary games are villains by definition and even if they win sooner or later they’ll fall prey to the greater villains.“Novsky was already a man of failing health; the dog years of hard labor and revolutionary zeal, which feeds on blood and glands, had weakened his lungs, kidneys, and joints.
According to the formidable Joseph Brodsky, (the author of the Introduction to this edition of Kis' A Tomb for Boris Davidovich (ATfBD)) the Yugoslav Union of Writers accused the author of plagiarizing Solzhenitsyn, Joyce, Nadezhda Mandelstam, Jorge Luis Borges, the Medvedev brothers, and others.
I understand each (excepting, of course, Mandelstam and the Medvedevs because I haven't read them) but the charge has little to recommend it; it is nakedly political rather than seriously literary.
In the early going ATfBD reads like the most poetic textbook you can remember.
Kiš does this job wonderfully for Yugoslavia in his Boris book.
And most cheerfully I now have the following string of literary=cards :: Borge --> Kiš --> Vollmann ; which pleases me greatly.
And so too I really ask (and continue to answer in the negative) Is fiction more true because it describes This Really Happened.* Is the tomb of Boris a novel?
Yes. Is it less a novel because the connective tissue among the stories is so thin?
No. Let me ask ; you know what this book is about -- how could the connective tissue be stronger without putting everyone at risk?
Goddamnit, that was genius-ly crafted bleakitude. I think I need a hug before I can stew on this text. Brodsky's intro is tremendous - a fitting companion to such an important piece of lit.
Vollmann durante os dez anos em que escreveu Central Europa (um dos livros da minha vida), o qual é dedicado à memória de Danilo Kis. Um Túmulo para Boris Davidovitch é o título de um dos seis contos que narram as perseguições, pelo regime estalinista, a militantes comunistas (pessoas anónimas mas reais).
(Um Túmulo para Boris Davidovitch)Danilo Kis nasceu em Subotica, Sérvia, no dia 22 de Fevereiro de 1935 e morreu em Paris, França, no dia 15 de Outubro de 1989.
Foi nomeado para o Prémio Nobel em 1989, ano em que morreu com um cancro nos pulmões.
I tako sam ja čitala ovo misleći da ću mrzeti ovu kbjigu , ali Kiš me je kupio pričom Psi i knjige , pa zanemariti činjenicu da nisam pola teksta razumela i daću knjizi koju zvezdicu više.
Elem Kiš je previše talentoan čovek da mu ne oprostimo što se odao duhu vremena , pratio trendove pa se dao pasijim sinovima postmodernistima .
Ovo mi je jako drag citat :" Bejah zauzet čitanjem i pisanjem, kada grunu u moju sobu veliki broj tih ljudi, neznanjem tupim kao batina i mržnjom oštrom poput noža.
Incredibly, Kis was 41 when he published this; to me, it reads like the work of a talented young acolyte soon (we hope) to outgrow his mentor.
Just maybe, the translator (Duska Mikic-Mitchell) is to blame for exaggerating the influence with keywords (“vertiginous”, “with horror”, “infernal”) and a certain tone or sentence structure – but even if so there is a deep strain of the copyist here, which I do not believe could help Kis in communicating what is his effectively.Luckily, “what is his” still does come through.
Citind povestirile lui Kis, portretele unor oameni striviţi, chiar anihilaţi, de propriile convingeri sau de sistemul la care au aderat, mi-a revenit obsedant în minte unul din tablourile lui Goya: Cronos devorându-şi copiii Căci exact asta s-a întâmplat în toată perioada revoluţiei bolşevice şi, ulterior, în regimul stalinist, cu cei mai fideli şi mai însufleţiţi susţinători ai noii orânduiri. Revoltător şi înspăimântător, dar adevărat.Pe scurt: fragmente de istorie, admirabil puse pe hârtie. Recomand.
Jesus, that was my husk of a response after I finished this one on a rainy afternoon, still jet-lagged from a honeymoon of sorts in London and back in Indiana, one foaming with the necessity of quickly organizing most aspects of my life.
And so it seems extraordinarily tragic that the Russian Communist revolution, which promised great things, and claimed to oppose tyranny, could succeed, yet ultimately only to lead to the reign of one of the most brutal dictators in history, Joseph Stalin.* It’s like the plot of a particularly bleak Thomas Hardy novel; it is life caning the back of your knees and telling you, ‘don’t ever hope to improve the world, or fight the established order.’The Liquidation of B.D. Novsky While I wouldn’t want to speculate as to the reasons behind Danilo Kiš’ interests and inspirations, it is nevertheless the case that his short story collection, A Tomb for Boris Davidovich, could have been written with me in mind, in that almost every entry is concerned with revolutionaries, dreamers, murderers, exile, torture, tyranny, Eastern Europe [mostly Russia], Communism, and so on.
this is a world authored by cruelty where with the seeming insouciance of an editor deleting a passage, a man's life is ended, and his story completely and viciously controlled by the state.
another things i'll say about this book is that black writers in america can learn alot from kis.
meaning that kis is illuminating his personal and group struggles through the larger lens of communist bloc evils.
as readers we always see a specific story capture the universal, but the more rare butterfly is the larger entity that somehow reflects the smaller.
Genera sentimientos muy densos todo el rato, y tenía que dejar espacio para digerirlos.A lo largo de 7 cuentos, D kis habla de situaciones límite, el huir de la muerte, o de la captura, de la prisión, o de el trabajo forzado, a la vez que encuentra espacio para meter toques de ironía en tanto drama de ese submundo, un submundo que vive siempre cercano a la muerte y a la amenaza, hecho de idealistas, revolucionarios, espias, oficiales corruptos, de persecución, torturas, confesiones, de vivir siempre perseguido por sus propios ideales, o por quienes piensan, o viven distinto.
De lo mejor que he leído este año, y mi primera lectura de Kis.Además de las referencias que se suelen hacer con esta obra, he entrevisto en los distintos relatos, aunque sea fugazmente a Orwell y a Koestler.La prosa es muy fluida, pero a la vez cargada de un significado profundo.
El débil, a veces, es más fuerte que el poderoso, pero para ello hay que ser un revolucionario como Novski.
No lyricism here, except for brief violent spurts; mostly just bone-dry irony, and when it comes to describing the slow march of Stalinism through the consciousness of Eastern Europe (and beyond) bone-dry irony is probably the preferred mode.
This book rewards close attention; parts that seem dry or overly factual contain a mess of emotions and indictments below the surface, and each of the stories contains small references to the others, references which create a miniature timeline of Stalinist repression.
I especially enjoyed the long section describing card games in penal colonies.
A collection of seven sparse tales about the dark comedies of life in the Comintern, and how revolutions devour their own children, as Saturn did. Bitterly mocking these cruel moments of fate. Read them all in one sitting, after bedtime, and will stay with me long after.

Dobar je ovaj Kiš :)
In this excellent novel, author Danilo Kiš takes the reader on a tour of an early 20th Century European Hell.
Anyway, those two stories together are more profound for their parallelism.This book can and probably should be enjoyed as a companion piece to Vollmann's Europe Central.
But really, I could almost imagine that some of these chapters were a parallel narrative that could have been inserted between chapters in Vollmann's work, and they'd mesh pretty damn well.Another good option would be to make a tetralogy out of A Tomb for Boris Davidovich, Europe Central, Darkness at Noon, and This Way for the Gas, Ladies and Gentlemen.
Imprescindible!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Skaitydama vėl prisiminiau Teroras ir svajonė. Maskva, 1937-ieji. Protas lyg ir išneša, kaip galima sugalvoti tokių dalykų, tačiau vis tiek atrodo neįtikėtina, kokiu mastu galima užkurti persekiojimo mašiną.
Kiš' seven grim Comintern tragedies are as potently revealing as any historically based writing that has come from his contemporaries (and to be sure, with the Yugoslavs it is almost always historical).
The seven tales anticipate each other in seamless fashion and the readers expectations come to somber resignation as he transitions from one story to another.
Like watching a distant train about to pummel someone on the tracks, Kiš sets up the formula of his novellas in a way that make the brutal outcome of his writing fully apparent, but as the reader it's hard to look away from the impending crash (even when you know its coming).
Knjiga u kojoj glavni junaci umiru za moj rođendan - kako da je ne volim? Dođe mi da se zapitam da nemam i ja kakve veze sa Novskim i Nojmanom u tom cikličnom kretanju vremena.Ipak, mislim da mi je u ovom djelu najdraža posljednja rečenica:„Snimak njegovih mošnji, veličine najveće kolhozne tikve, preštampava se i u stranim stručnim knjigama gde god je reč o elefantijazisu (elephantiasis nostras) i kao naravoučenije piscima da za pisanje nisu dovoljna samo muda.“Kiš, očigledno, ima mnogo više od muda.
During one particularly trying period when Novsky is older, he is being interrogated by a man called Fedukin and Kis puts in horrifying clarity and focus the life of a revolutionary: Then followed long nights without days spent in solitary confinement in Suzdal Prison, in a damp stone-walled cell known as the “doghouse”, which had the major architectural advantage of making a man feel as if he were buried alive,so that he experienced his mortal being, in comparison with the eternity of stone and time, as a speck of dust in the ocean of timelessness.
Dark and powerful short stories are set in the time of Russian revolution and Stalinism, all related to the death (it doesn’t matter if they were guilty or innocent) and written in a extremely calm style (which gives an additional feelings of eerienes). Absolutely disturbing, but a must read, if you are interested in this turbulent historical time period.
Ich würde hierzu gerne noch das Vorwort von Joseph Brodsky und das Nachwort von W. T. Vollmann lesen, welche in meiner Ausgabe leider nicht enthalten sind.
This is the sort of book that only pretentious lit majors can love.
Kis writes in an infuriating nonlinear style full of oblique references that only Kis and his immediate friends are likely to know, for the sole purpose of showing how incredibly well-read and generally awesome they are compared, arbitrarily, to anyone else who doesn't happen to have that  exact  same literary education.
Everything in this book is carefully calculated to have some sort of hidden meaning that only the author knows, encouraging fellow pretentious jackasses to search for all of the clues so that he can delight in their inevitable failures.
