https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12588363-fallen-in-love
Post-review:  I feel like, after reading almost all of this series, now, including the in-between book that I was in no way obligated to read, I am allowed to write a letter.
Those two stories (which I may or may not elaborate on some more when it isn't so late  and I know where the damned book is ) were just another concrete example as to how what you think is someone being pessimistic and foolish are the people that are actually  decent;  not the ones whom you think are the ones in "real love"I just wish you had written the rest as you did with Roland and Arrianne, Kate.
Is Lauren Kate seriously this  greedy  desperate for money that she writes about Luce and Daniel.....on Valentine's Day, no less?
This book is about the only Valentine's day that Luce and Daniel ever had together. How romantic and heartbreaking is that?
Even though I liked the romance between Shelby and Miles, I wasn't completely enthralled about everything else.The second story in the book is the story of Roland.
I don't know why this was necessary; the entire FALLEN series is their perpetual and gag-worthy love story.
This story I mostly skipped over.At the end of the book is a snippet of the next (and last, thank God) book in the Fallen series, RAPTURE.
FALLEN IN LOVE was a huge disappointment, and I thought I'd like the RAPTURE sneak-peek more.I didn't.It was boring, and I skipped over a lot of it.
Fallen in love?Fallen 3.5?Is this a very nasty joke? *looks at the reviews* O_O Shit.Awesome. Just freaking awesome. Now I got to read this '3.5' book too. God! is this just me who wants to just finish this fucking series already so I could know the end due to my big mistake of even starting reading this series? I seriously want to finish and get over with this.Anyway, pretty cover. -.-
To all of you people out there,there is one thing I don't quite understand; if you have already read the other books in the series, and didn't like them, why do you really have to go and search about this book? And then, why do you have to "review" it, since it hasn't even been published yet? Even if you have no other interest in your life other than being all mean to authors and books, I suggest you keep it to yourself. You can write in your diary. (Okay, the tagline was a bit lame indeed, but still...)
Miles and Shelby are nincompoops.NINCOMPOOPS.I don't know why I just did that.
I mean, I have to be pretty insane to not want to beat the crap out of them.
So after I couldn't stand those two, I skipped to the next story.
I skipped the other story as well.
By now it seems like my body is stuffed with every kind of cheese out there, which is awkward because I love cheese, but only if I can eat it.
[image error]This woman seems to know her books are bad to the bone.
I mean, does she not know how to smile?
This is a novella you can just skip. It doesn't add anything important to the main books other than the details of how Ariane came to her scars. There are only 4 little love stories.  If you wish to read this novella on your own, without knowing anything about it... stop here.Do not push the View Spoiler button.   (view spoiler)[1) The first starts with Miles and Shelby.They just left Daniel back in time, where they saw Cam's heart beeing brocken and why he turned to dark side, but instead of ju
Mixed with her own blood, she got huge scars that will never heal.When she realized that there wasn't anything that she could do, she flew away, promising Tess that she would send help.(We don't really get to know what happened to Tess then but it is safe to assume that she died.)4) Lastly we have another Lucinda and Daniel, past story.They meet....
What I did enjoy was that they were as loyal to Luce as ever during this story and a girl always needs friends like them around.Love Lessons: The Valentine of Roland.Roland’s story actually surprised me.
What I really enjoyed about this story was getting that extra insight on Roland as a character because you don’t see that in the series and mainly how deeply he cares for Arriane whose friendship means more to him than anything.Burning Love: The Valentine of Arriane.I’ve always been a fan of Arriane, I really like her and her character is so unpredictable.

"...cada alma debía estar satisfecha consigo misma antes de lanzarse al amor, porque uno nunca sabía cuando desaparecería la otra parte. Era la mayor de las paradojas: las almas se necesitan, pero también necesitaban no necesitarse."Este libro está totalmente de mas. Creo que solo lo escribieron para no dejar a Miles y Shelby sin parejas, pero quedó forzado. Que posibilidad hay de que ángeles y humanos tengan experiencias románticas al mismo tiempo en una era lejana? Yo digo que cero.
So while sweet miles and bitchy Shelby are off looking for Luce they get lost in a little town where its almost valentines day and they fall in love.
(no offense intened with the whole "white girl" thang :))Burning Love: The Valentine of Arriane:Awww this story was amazing.
And here is what happened in my biased opinion of these tragic love stories for all of you who just want to read Arrianes story!
so it all starts off with Arriane and Tess (yeas Arrianes long lost amazing love is a GIRL which makes it so much more beautiful in my opinion)hanging out in a meadow thing braiding hair and telling stories.
4 starsMiles and Shelby: 4/5 starsI really liked the story but it was not like...something to wow me, it was quick and funny.Roland: 5/5 starsRoland is my fave<3 I never expected him to have such a story.
Arianne's story was my favorite because it was so cute and sad and a million other thingsLuce: 3/5 starsThis one wasn't the best.
To be honest, I loved how cute it was but not much happened, it was all flowers and love.
I wanted SOMETHING to happen!!I am almost finished with Fallen too, the series is really good<3<3<3
I gave this a poor rating due to the fact that two of the stories had terrible endings. I like the characters in the book but when you don't give happy endings in love stories you make me mad. I get that real life isn't always happy but this is books. Authors should just know that more times than not the person reading it wants a happy ending.
Good!
It was such a sweet action and i admit, I almost cried.'Burning Love'(The valentine of Arianne)Okay so this one was also quite sad and emotional and like I said before, it was nice to read from the charcter's perspective and give an insight as to how they act/feel.The story follows Arianne (also near the faire) and how her love, Tess, who sided with Lucifer and is a demon.
Although this is the medieval Cam so she cannot share her problems with him.Eventunally, Daniel turns up and the two go off and share treasured time in the forrest together.My favourite part was the epilogue as the musicians who had been playing at the faire, lifted their masks at the end of the day and were revealed to be Roland, Arriane, Miles and Shelby!
I really love Miles and Shelby parts. They are the cutest and the sweetest story in this book!（*▽｀*）
I really love Miles and Shelby parts. They are the cutest and the sweetest story in this book!（*´▽｀*）
True Love Never Says Goodbye… Except for the reader, who reads these books with such intensity and passion that they almost want to strangle the publisher for having the nerve to offer an excerpt to the final Fallen book that they won’t be able to get their hands on for a few more months.
But a story where one will sacrifice for the other - no matter what the pain or agony is for punishment - is a true gift.And, of course, Daniel and Luce appear in story four to offer their fans a look at yet another ‘day in the life of.’ But this time, a day that meant beauty and joy on the one day devoted to love.Bad part of the book?
*3.5 stars*Perché quasi quattro stelle se l'intera serie mi ha fatto quasi pena? Perché questa raccolta di brevi storie é forse meglio dei primi tre libri tutti insieme.Tralasciando lo stile di LK che non mi ha mai fatta impazzire l'idea che sta alla base delle prime tre novelle/racconti brevi é buona. La mia preferita é quella di Arianne mentre, nemmeno a farlo apposta, quella di Lucinda e Daniel l'ho trovata banalissima. Come se fosse sempre la stessa cosa ripetuta all'infinito.
FEELS, FEELS ARE SCATTERING EVERYWHERE.  "And in that moment under the stars, a simple understanding passed among the four. Sometimes love needed a lift from its guardian angels, to get its feet off the ground. But once it made its first early beats toward flight, it had to be trusted to take wing on its own and soar past the highest conceivable heights, into the heavens,and beyond."
I felt like I was reading from Luce and Daniel's perspective again and so far, the two still haven't stood apart from any of the other characters.
That made me laugh!!Overall, I was unimpressed, I didn't see a build in character or personality for either and would've liked to see that *something* that seperates them from the others in the Fallen series.Love Lessons: The Valentine of RolandRating: 2 starsOkay, I guess I sort of felt for Roland more, and I definitely enjoyed his story more than Shelby and Miles'.
Perdida de tiempo total.
Si me hubiera dedicado a intentar desentrañar los misterios de un universo paralelo lo habría empleado mejor.Además, la autora cae en incongruencias con su propia historia.
¿Qué posibilidad hay de que Bill, siendo quien resulta ser, deje que Luce y Daniel pasen un San Valentin juntos?
El único que pasan juntos para más inri.Lo unico pasable es saber como se originaron las cicatrices de Arriane pero ni siquiera eso justifica este libro.Por no decir, que el que tantos personajes pasen un San Valentine con esa persona que es especial para ellos es mucha casualidad.
Especialmente cuando varios de ellos tienen miles de años para encontrar a esa persona.
Estas 200 y pico de páginas están plagadas de amor y drama, y obviamente para que eso quede bien est
Honestly I would've rated this higher if it weren't for Daniel and Luce at the end. They just annoy me so much!!! All the other stories I liked.
When Lauren Kate came out with the third installment in the Fallen series I was just as excited to read it as I was the other two, but my excitement quickly diminished-it seemed I was no longer interested in Luce and Daniel’s story anymore.
With Fallen in Love, I thought maybe I would have better luck.All of the short stories in Kate’s new novel are very sweet, there is no denying that.
It has elements to it that I adore and I want to recommend the series to those who share the same infatuations as I do (fallen angels-what’s not to love?) I look forward to reading the fourth and final book (out June 2012) just to see how it will all end.Overall: Debatable.
La eternidad y un día es un spin-off de la saga Oscuros, que narra el único San Valentín que Luce y Daniel van a pasar juntos.A pesar de que no leí la saga, me largué a leerlo porque tenía entendido que era una especie de antología de cuentos románticos. Bien, no. Es una novela corta, que si bien tiene conexión con la trama de la saga, no acontecen cosas que alteren los hechos, que tengan relevancia en la historia principal.Se puede leer tranquilamente sin haber leído previamente los tres prime
Probablemente, me haya perdido de pequeños detalles ya que ignoró qué pasa en los libros anteriores, pero eso no evitó que disfrutara el libro.Y a pesar de que no lo creí posible, porque soy anti-historias rosas y llevo posponiendo la lectura de Oscuros desde hace años, creyendo que era una de esas que chorrean miel (Vamos, la premisa de una chica que no deja de morirse -literalmente- de amor en cada vida, nos lleva a pensar en cosas melosas, ¿o no?), disfruté del libro y de las pequeñas historias de amor que nos cuenta.No fue lo que pensaba.
I wanted to jump out of my skin when I read "announcer", oh yes I still have nightmares after Passion.
It's good because you find out something more about characters and also remember them.
Yes that's problem with those books I don't have enough memory to remember who is related to who and everything, but that's my mistake.
Maybe I sound too negative but really I'm not a heater and God knows how much I want to feel same joy that I felt within reading Fallen and Torment, but the magic is not here.
Don't get me wrong I liked Rapture it actually had a plot and I didn't want to rip my eyes from my head but I don't see why she had to try and slip Fallen in Love in there, pretty much a pointless book that you could go without reading.The book pretty much sums it up on the back cover, it is a story about the Valentine's day Luce & Dan get to spend together.
No..BUT if you are like myself and need to read every book in a series even if it's not the best I suggest you do because it's a lot better than the first 3 books, maybe Lauren was trying to redeem herself?
Shelby and Miles' story was pretty cute, although I thought the end was a bit mushy.
Roland's story was sad and had a bittersweet ending but I enjoyed reading his story.
Arriane's story was quite sad and the most surprising, although I don't know why.And then we come to Luce and Daniel...Honestly it was pretty good but I couldn't help but feel like it wasn't needed, despite it making all the other stories fit together.
All in all it was a quick and easy read and if you love the series then you'll enjoy this book.
To me, this book felt unnecessary... I don't know, I had this feeling in Fallen of Gothic beauty and mystery of angels, but the series has lost this depth by each book. I hope the ending (the last installment) redeems the series.
So very fantastic, loved these stories of love, whether is's starting, ending, hard times or easy times, and now to read Rapture!*First read July 8th 2012*Lots of great short stories of romance, some sad, some not, but all of them great, and the excerpt from Rapture was amazing! Can't wait for my library copy of it to come in!
