https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35816.2061
The landings on Halley's Comet, and Europa, along with their vivid descriptions of the landscape and life-forms make it an engaging read filled with wonder!
Of course however, the necessary technology has not been ignored.Low on action (hence I liked it more), more on exploration and imagination [:D], which made the novel really a very good read to me.Thoughts that I could pick up from the book:1.
Not all mysteries can be solved by man.
In any case, what would be the point of it being different and unique, if it was written just like the first book !
Jos jedna ineresantna knjiga prepuna originalnih ideja i lepih scena (citav deo oko Halejeve komete je izvrstan) ali sve ukupno ipak ostavlja daleko slabiji utisak nego prethodne dve. Jednostavno mi nekako fali na osecaju velicine, monumentalnosti. Ka SF roma je odlican ali mi je nekako suvise konvencionalan za gosn Klarka. Vise mi dodje kao neka medju prica nego pravi nastavak.Nemojte me razumeti pogresno knjiga je vredna citanja, naravno, ali treba smanjiti ocekivanj sto ja nisam odradio.ocena bi pre bila oko 3 ili 3.5 ali ipak je to Klark pa ne mogu :P
Oh,and some men of science are around too.The touchdown on Halley's is surprisingly dull,just the way the captain likes it.This dirty snowball, has a few interesting things to see.Geysers,that shoot out water,which quickly turns to vapor and ice and goes out into endless space , never to return.Natural structures that look unnatural.Caves are found and the scientists, of course, need to explore them.The real reason for this voyage, knowledge, the naive men believe.A strange light at the end of a cavern is spotted but a message has been received, an emergency.They have to leave this colorless but novel place immediately.
Their sister spaceship,Galaxy, crashed landed on cloud covered Europa, a former moon of Jupiter,which aliens have turned into a second Sun,Lucifer.
Tsung Spacelines has finished building another ship (named "Universe") and invited several celebrities, among them Heywood Floyd, to the maiden flight which includes a stop-over at Halley's comet.
But things take a turn for the worse when the Galaxy is hijacked and crash-lands on Europa...my thoughts: I felt a bit disappointed since the story dealt only marginally with the mystery of the Black Monoliths and their builders and the overall story-arc doesn't get advanced that much.That out of the way we get some typical Clarke: enthusiastic and optimistic about space exploration, the science as always accurate.
2061 may seem like a random date in which to continue the Space Odyssey story into a third book, but there is a very good reason for it - the return of Halley's Comet.Amazingly Dr Heywood Floyd, middle-aged in the first two books, is still going strong aged one hundred and three, thanks to half a lifetime spent in low gravity, orbiting Earth in a space hospital after a bad fall.
The plot is a flimsy, tensionless affair, the resolution wholly underwhelming.The inclusion of a landing on Halley's Comet is interesting enough in itself I suppose, but it has nothing to do with the wider narrative.
THIS REVIEW HAS SPOILERS!!!Very elderly Dr Floyd is invited to join a pleasure cruise to land on Halley's Comet, which suddenly turns into a rescue mission when his grandson's ship is hijacked and crashes on Europa.
According to the first two books, this was supposed to be a really bad deal.So I kept waiting for the ship to be destroyed or the people to get eaten by the previously malevolent Europans......but nothing happens.
Dr Floyd doesn't hook up with the actress celebrity (which at his age probably would have killed him, but still---why spend all this time talking about how he was crushing on her and do nothing with that???).
Clarke has two plots going at the same time and the effect (of going between the two ships) is confusing.
(Even the hi-jacking feels cheesy.) Having said that, Clarke is more of a scientist than a writer and what captivates me is the astronomy, the science, the feeling of space travel and descriptions of outer space as well as future technology some of which has come to pass that he had predicted in 1987, such as the internet and social media.
Clarke sprinkles his knowledge (sometimes even insider knowledge), his scientific expertise and his humor into this minor story as part of the Odyssey series.
Have not read all of the books in this series, but of course this one is in the shadow of the original.
2001 was such a realistic yet profound SF book.
So can the following sequels still feel fresh and surprise?
After the second book, which I did not feel gripped me as much (the film either), this next one again is similar.
There is mystery in this next book, though it does move along a little slowly until becoming more entertaining near the end.
If you like 2001 or other well known Arthur C.Clarke books, you will probably enjoy this.
There really wasn't any reason to write this book besides cashing in on its very well know predecessors 2001 and 2010, both of which are supported by two very different but decent movie adaptations.I dont' remember a single event from the book, but just remember getting it for Christmas and being excited by the cool cover. Fairly disappointing, really.
Not as wonderful and gripping as 2001, but still better than the 2010. Not a very long and complex adventure, but great world-building and it's reasonable shortness makes sure you don't get bored by the lack of action.
Viduvēji. Šķiet šī būs vājākā sērijas daļa, iesāku jau ceturto un tā pagaidām ļoti patīk.Šoreiz stāsts ir taka sadalīts divās daļās - par diviem kosmosa ceļojumiem, kas beigās apvienojas vienā.Bet tas kas bija domāts kā lielais pārsteigums par Eiropas planētas kalnu, galīgi nenostrādāja, jo iepriekšējā grāmatā tā kā garāmejot tas jau bija pieminēts, un varēju uzminēt kas tas ir jau grāmatas sākumā. Sabojāts pārsteigums.
This series started as a one-off book released in conjunction with the Stanley Kubrick movie of the same name.
The series consists of: * 2001: A Space Odyssey * 2010: Odyssey Two.
(Also made into a film) * 2061 Odyssey Three * 3001: The Final OdysseyThe first and second books are enthralling.
When I finally just relaxed and accepted the fact that there are mystical things going on, I realized that this is the whole point.
The reader is supposed to be in awe, and there are some things that mankind is not meant to know (yet).
Just remember to accept the mystery and embrace the sense of wonder.http://www.books.rosboch.net/?p=561
Una tercera parte que supera a la segunda y casi se pone a la altura de la primera, con una muy sugestiva estructura que enlaza diversas expediciones, con las adecuadas dosis de ciencia, acción e intriga (quizás con algunos personajes secundarios superfluos), para terminar de tal manera que la lectura de 3001 se hace imprescindible.
Serinin ilk iki kitabına göre aksiyon az olmasına rağmen kötü bir kitap değil.

third read - 29 September 2010 - This is a choppy story set on two different spaceships in the Space Odyssey universe.
One spaceship brings a very elderly Heywood Floyd along on a visit to the comet itself, and Clarke's descriptions are, as usual, quite vivid.
second read - February 1995 - Arthur C.
Clarke's 2001: A Space Odyssey was made into a movie.
The sequel 2010: Odyssey Two is also a movie.
This is the story of the next expedition to the moons of Jupiter after that.first read - February 1988
بدی خوندن کتابهای کلارک اینه که انتظار داری یه اثر عالی جلوت باشه و با این پیشفرض، اگه یه مقدار هم اثر از مسیر کمال بلغزه، به نظرت نابخشودنی میآد.
این کتاب هم یکی از اون جاها رو داشت.
داستان در ادامهٔ اودیسههای پیشینه و خیلی هم خوب و جذاب نوشته شده، ولی در پایان این حس رو میده که انگار به هیچ جای خاصی نرسیده و باید حتماً دنبالهای داشته باشه.
البته کلارک دنبالهای برای این کتاب نوشته، ولی تاریخ نگارشش خیلی سال بعد از انتشار کتاب سوم بوده و سمیه میگه اونقدر بده که شک دارم اصلاً برم سمتش یا نه
بدی خوندن کتاب‌های کلارک اینه که انتظار داری یه اثر عالی جلوت باشه و با این پیش‌فرض، اگه یه مقدار هم اثر از مسیر کمال بلغزه، به نظرت نابخشودنی می‌آد.
این کتاب هم یکی از اون جاها رو داشت.
داستان در ادامهٔ اودیسه‌های پیشینه و خیلی هم خوب و جذاب نوشته شده، ولی در پایان این حس رو می‌ده که انگار به هیچ جای خاصی نرسیده و باید حتماً دنباله‌ای داشته باشه.
البته کلارک دنباله‌ای برای این کتاب نوشته، ولی تاریخ نگارشش خیلی سال بعد از انتشار کتاب سوم بوده و سمیه می‌گه اون‌قدر بده که شک دارم اصلاً برم سمتش یا نه
That’s mostly due to the fact that I usually switch between books at a certain number of chapters, and the chapters in this are very short.
The year was chosen as that is when Halley’s Comet will again be visible from Earth, and part of the story is concerned with a crew landing on the comet itself.
As the book was written before the fall of apartheid, Clarke predicts a revolution in South Africa that results in much of the white population leaving the country, and the resulting politics play a role.
Heywood Floyd, now 103 years old, reappears as a major character, and ends up reuniting with Dave Bowman in energy form.
Chudák Clarke už podruhý skončil jako moje čtení na zkouškový, takže jen proto jsem Třetí vesmírnou odyseu měla rozečtenou 25 dní, ačkoliv byla naprosto skvělá. Nepřestávají mě udivovat Clarkovy nápady a vizionářství. Možná proto je mu připisována první myšlenka využití geostacionární dráhy pro telekomunikační družice, které by se navíc podle jeho článku z roku 1945 daly použít i pro účely meteorologie (celý článek k přečtení zde).
Sir Arthur C Clarke's writing had been as captivating as when I first read A Space Odyssey, but I guess this book suffers from a rather severe case of technological advancement: since it's the future, and now everything is easier, some of the thrills (well, almost all of them) that made me love the previous novel so much (I think this series peaked at Odyssey Two) had been thrown out of the airlock.
In 2061 he is invited on a trip aboard the Universe, a space tourism trip that will land on Halley's comet.
Things go very wrong though and the crew of the Galaxy find themselves stranded on the moon, hoping that the Universe can reach them for a rescue.All of the Odyssey books so far have seen a major space expedition as the main part of the book with a dramatic ending involving the monoliths and creepy super alien goings-on.
For me, up to this point in the series, the monoliths serve as a plot to make stories of travel into space a novel.
The book is good when read as the third installment to the space odyssey series.
The plot is intriguing; the hard science-fiction part dealing with descriptions of the celestial bodies and the fictionalised imagination of the Jovian satellites with the new sun is very impressive.
But on its own, the book is not that interesting.
It doesn't seem that Clarke had an idea of the subsequent instalment(s) when he wrote the second book.
Nevertheless, if you forgo these details and just concentrate on the science and plot, it still manages to be an entertaining read.Will I read the final instalment?
2061: Odyssey Three (Space Odyssey #3), Arthur C. Clarke عنوان: 2061 ادیسه سه؛ نویسنده: آرتور سی. کلارک؛ مترجم: رضا فاضل؛ تهران، نشر فاخته 1372؛ در 362 ص
2061: Odyssey Three (Space Odyssey #3), Arthur C. Clarke عنوان: 2061 ادی‍س‍ه‌ س‍ه‌؛ نویسنده: آرت‍ور س‍ی‌. ک‍لارک‌؛ مت‍رج‍م‍: رض‍ا ف‍اض‍ل؛ تهران، نشر فاخته 1372؛ در 362 ص
Es un libro muy confuso y repetitivo en mas de un capitulo se remontaba a recordar sucesos de los anteriores libros, siento que no aporto nada a la saga, este libro se lo pudo haber ahorrado
I had hoped that author would describe about the object in this sequel.
Hope I'd find out about this in next sequel.Nevertheless, I enjoyed it very much!I would recommend this book to all the science fiction lovers, but prior to this, one should read prequel as well.
Installment 3 is probably the weakest link in Clarke's Odyssey series.
Dr. Heywood Floyd (now 103) is leading a mission to intercept comet Halley (re-appearing after the 1986 fly-by), when he is ordered to abort and proceed to Europa--declared off-limits to humans at the end of 2010; Odyssey Two--to rescue the crew of a ship that has crashed there.
There is a little suspense as the rescue mission faces mounting difficulties.It isn't even a good introduction to Odyssey Four, as that begins a new plot line (the rescue of Frank Poole) so readers in a hurry can probably skip this one.
2061: Odyssey Three continues the story of Heywood Floyd, a chirpy 103 year old.
I was seriously not expecting him to even be alive at this point since he was already old in the last book.
If dr Floyd makes it to 3001: the Final Odyssey I'm seriously gonna lose my shit.
The main problem with this book was it's first half.
First they were trapped on europa, waiting to get rescued, then the book just ended.
I mean yeah, the rescue in itself would have been needless to write but this just leaves the ending totally open.
This book is a decent continuation of the Monolith story but it feels incomplete.
We learn more about Europa after a forced landing by Galaxy is caused by what appears to be a terrorist act but that gets wrapped up without much talk about potential motivations other than possible greed.
Heywood Floyd is back and ends up going to be a part of the rescue as he happens to be on Galaxy's sister ship, the Universe.
Not much else that I can really say other than it's a quick read but not a huge progression in the story.
Ничего нового! Arthur C. Clarke пишет плохо, но ровно, так что третья часть ничем не отличается (ни по стилю, ни по настроению, ни по качеству) от первых двух, и всё, что было сказано о них, справедливо и для 2061: Odyssey Three!!!
It's been decades since I read 2001 and 2010, so I was a little concerned that I wouldn't be able to follow the story. That being said, while there were a few references to the old novels, the story was easy to follow. My memories of 2001 and 2010 are vague, but I'm pretty sure those books were a lot better than this one. It was interesting, but just not as captivating as the earlier ones. I'm now on to 3001...
