https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48745.The_Clue_in_the_Jewel_Box
She is described in every single damn book as being "titian haired." (the original series, anyway; I don't even know what they've done with the modern revamps - probably made Nancy an official blonde and turned Ned into a sensitive indie-rocker type) "Titian" means red hair, people.
Also, there's something that I noticed when I read these books as a 7th grader but wasn't as bothered by then: do we really need to be constantly reminded how fucking perfect Nancy is?
Nancy gets trapped in a phone booth once, and doesn't even have to escape - a policeman comes along and helps her.
My mom saved all her Nancy Drew books for a future daughter, but I was never interested in reading them. I just found them in the attic. Perfect escapism!
What can I say? People just don't write books quite like this anymore. This series is unique!
The Good: Like the other books in this series, this is a thrilling mystery with a convoluted plot.
Nancy and her friends end up in one predicament after another, but, thanks to her smarts and skills, they escape and she ends up saving the day.
Everything I like about this series was present in this volume.The Bad: I have no complaints; it just wasn't spectacular.Conclusion: Unless you're completely unfamiliar with this series, you probably know what to expect: sleuthing, peril, action, etc.
This book delivers on those fronts and then some.
If you're not a fan of the famed teenage detective, though, nothing in this will change your mind.
3.5 star rating in my opinion. I really loved some aspects of this book and didn’t like others. What I loved: this is one of the only Nancy Drew’s that is actually hard to solve yourself. I didn’t know who to suspect. What I didn’t like: Although I like how a long lost grandson is looking for his grandma, it got too complex some times and didn’t add on to the story in a good way. Other than that, everything else worked perfectly and I recommend this book to any mystery-lovers!
Another wonderful addition to the Nancy Drew mystery book series.
"Nancy Battles the False Prince of River Heights".
So this guy with a troublesome dog takes the train in River Heights one day and finds himself an exiled prince.
That foreign royalty takes refuge in Nancy's home town seems a little far fetched but it could happen.
Nancy goes about disproving the interloper Michael's claim as the long, lost prince with her standard stop and start sleuthing.
In short, a decent story in the Nancy Drew pantheon although it goes on a little long.
Highlights include: abnoxious, crass villian with bad manners that refuses to go away, sleuthing process interesting. For some reason I was very into picturing the jewel box just as it was one the cover..it still intrigues me. It must have had some underlying metaphorical, archetypal meaning.
Nancy solves the mystery of a lost grandson and petty thievery. I'm rereading all of mine and then selling them to 1/2 Price Books. And keeping some, also. I'm not in the "Nancy Drew" obsession phase anymore.
I always enjoy Nancy Drew and I realize it was written in a different time so I usually overlook stuff but in this one the snobbishness of Nancy and her friends bothered me. I still liked the story though.
Nancy Drew helps a woman find her grandson. A delightful and charming mystery.
This is what I call a real Nancy Drew delight.
I liked the book so much that I am still shrouded in the veil of that pleasure which accompnied me throughout the book.This is one of the earlier stories of Nancy Drew penned down by Mildred Benson under the pseudonym of Carolyn Keene.
"Oh Nancy Drew how much I love you,you keep a part of my childhood alive!"
When you are looking for a good book to read but don’t know what genre, well a good genre is mystery.
If you don’t know what that is already, it is a series of this girl named Nancy who solves many mysteries that include her family or someone new she met.
I like books when they can really get you to want to read more.
I would recommend this book to people who like mystery or want to try something new.Disclaimer:The series is 51 books long maybe too long for some.
This Nancy Drew book is really unique. Nancy is trying to find Madame's grandson, and all to soon she does- or so she thinks. Why is Dorravan (sp?) always at the scene of a crime, only to be found innocent? Where are the newfound prince's manners? What does the singing music box nightingale mean about 'clue in jewel box?' A great book (and for once, Nancy does not get kidnapped! :P )!
Enjoyed reading this book with my daughter. She wanted to read a book my mom, her grandma, read when she was her age. We had fun asking Google home to explain some of the phrases and references that neither of us were quite sure of. I love that we’re able to read chapter books together now. :)
Nancy Drew is a very curious girl who likes to solve mysteries and is very good at it. She wants to help find this ladies grandson, but along the way runs into a bunch of mysterious people and things. Nancy does her best and has the help of her friends, dad, and local people.
I'm sure I read this many, many years ago as a young girl. Thoroughly enjoyed it again, a fun, fast-paced little mystery. :-) You can't go wrong with Nancy Drew.
True Confession: I had to read some of the Nancy Drew books out of order....they still count, right?
Nancy doesn't seem to be at her smartest in this one, but a good story with the usual happy ending.
it was good.. exciting and had a interesting plotline.
Nancy Drew gets her man again-this is a great, fun read-and very representative of the series. I definitely recommend this to fans or future fans of Nancy Drew!
This book certainly has strange twists in it. It was really interesting to read it.
This story shamelessly wastes Nancy's services on bringing down ordinary low-level pickpockets and it's as clear as day from the start that the prince is fake.
I own this. One of my favorites in the series
Yeah, another ND mystery that is so unbelievable, glad I’ve got no more left.
My favorite Nancy Drew book of all time.
I remember reading this one when I was little! A good story. She always managed to have everything fall into place for her, but that's ok.
And it takes Nancy too long to realize that the pickpocket and doppelganger pickpocket are both pickpockets, but from a realistic standpoint it makes sense.Plot 3: Nancy needs to find a gift for her dad's upcoming birthday but his wallet is stolen and SADFACE the local Boys Club will be kicked out of their home and other such shenanigans, nooooo poor cute orphans.Plot 4: Helen Corning surfaces from the wilds and introduces Nancy to Katherine, a foreign (you guessed it, she's from the same place as Madame) fashion designer who is like HELL YES YOU SHALL MODEL MY FORMALWEAR when she meets Nancy.
Times have sure changed since 1943 even in YA books.
It was such a blatant disguise I thought for sure there would be a reference to the OZ books or movie.
The author still doesn't have him as Nancy's boyfriend even though Burt and Dave have become steadies to George and Bess.
Poor Ned, he's one of many admirers that Nancy has, but he is her favorite.
Poor Ned - I'm not liking him so much any more and Nancy is a user.
If these books were written today - the bad guys wouldn't bother to just tie up their victims.
I probably read this one ten times when I was 14
