https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52783.Henderson_the_Rain_King
464. Henderson the Rain King, Saul Bellow (1915 - 2005)Bellow's glorious, spirited story of an eccentric American millionaire who finds a home of sorts in deepest Africa.عنوانها: سلطان باران؛ هندرسون سلطان باران، اثر: سال بیلو (بلو)؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هفدهم ماه آگوست سال 1984 میلادیعنوان: سلطان باران؛ اثر: سال بیلو (بلو)؛ مترجم: عباس کرمی فر؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، اردیبهشت، 1363، در 480 ص، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی - سده 20 معنوان: هندرسون سلطان باران، نویسنده: سال بلو؛ مترجم: مجتبی
Henderson the Rain King, Saul Bellow (1915 - 2005)Bellow's glorious, spirited story of an eccentric American millionaire who finds a home of sorts in deepest Africa.عنوانها: سلطان باران؛ هندرسون سلطان باران، اثر: سال بیلو (بلو)؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هفدهم ماه آگوست سال 1984 میلادیعنوان: سلطان باران؛ اثر: سال بیلو (بلو)؛ مترجم: عباس کرمی فر؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، اردیبهشت، 1363، در 480 ص، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی - سده 20 معنوان: هندرسون سلطان باران، نویسنده: سال بلو؛ مترجم: مجتبی عبدالله نژاد، تهران، فرهنگ نشر نو، 1397، در 450 ص؛ شابک: 9786007439517؛کتاب «سلطان باران» در ردیف چهارصدوهشتادوچهار از فهرست هزار و یک جلد، و نامزد دریافت جایزه پولیتزر نیز بوده، ولی برنده نشده است، نویسنده ی کتاب، «سولومون بلو» که سپس خود را «سال بیلو (بلو)» نامیدند، است.
Although I enjoyed the book, I have trouble improving on this brief summary from onestarbookreviews:A rich old man goes to Africa to find himself, only to get tangled up in one huge, extended metaphor with a lion.
Holden Caulfield goes to Africa.
Precisely what Saul Bellow does in this book !There is no patronizing in the words, no hollow advise on quick fixes you need to follow to discover the meaning of life.
It is among two of the most isolated of tribes : The Arnewi & The Wariri that the rest of his life story is penned.One amusing character I found in the tale was of King Dahfu of the Wariri.
Eugene's interactions with the King give way to some of the most mind boggling & quote worthy prose in the book.
This is my first Saul Bellow book and while I didn't hate it, I didn't love it either. I get that Henderson was on a spiritual journey to find the answers to his life's questions, and that the reader can pluck a few jewels of inspiration from Bellow's examples throughout the novel, but I've experienced that in many other novels that I enjoyed much more than this one. I think the problem I had was with Henderson's personality. He reminded me of a few people that I have known, one in particular, who always rubbed ne the wrong way.
If you can endure the narcissistic, misogynistic narrator-protagonist, if you can pretend to believe that every woman he meets wants to jump his bones, every guy wants to become his pal and no one anywhere wants to slap him silly, if you can abide the phony African setting, if you can shrug off the plot contrivances and force yourself to care about yet another privileged male’s midlife crisis, if you can avoid rolling your eyes out of socket at the “humorous” mishaps caused by the Rabelaisian hero against the noble savages he pursues, then occasionally you will find some perceptive observations in this novel.
It is the story, which we have heard so many times, of a bellicose foreigner who goes to Africa in order to find himself.
Then he decides to ditch the tourist Africa and find the true heart of it in order to understand and heal himself, but when he arrives at a remote village with his guide and meets the prince of a very small and location, he is disappointed to hear him speaking English.
Intentions to fix the villagers foolish superstition (as deemed by Henderson) lead to a larger disaster and another superstition (which, truly, he discovers, is merely a form of control for a group of powerful individuals) which leads him to being the Rain King.
Abbandonato, non fa per me. Stile formidabile. Storia datata su un ricco pazzo, un ereditiere violento e donnaiolo, che decide di combattere i suoi demoni partendo per un viaggio spirituale in Africa. Il protagonista è spregevole e misogino, purtroppo però non ha altre qualità. Roth con personaggi anche più meschini ci ha scritto dei romanzi grandiosi.Henderson è un piangina noioso con i soliti first world problem a cui tutti inspiegabilmente cadono ai piedi.
read more saul bellow. philip roth does. i hate the word romp. so let's say this book is all about personal exploration. henderson is opinionated, an american bull. he's in africa. he's being ugly and how you'd expect him to be. but he's the only one giving revelations and you couldn't imagine it any other way. he's like a teddy roosevelt mid life crisis tour guide. henderson's a brute with color. it's a search for the meaning of life with your dickhead uncle who owns a brand new chrysler. the worst part is - he finds it.
Strepitoso Bellow. Con questo romanzo la mia mente è volata su su oltre le nuvole, compiendo le stesse piroette fanciullesche che orgiasticamente facevo quando divoravo Zanna bianca. E contemporaneamente è andata giù giù, dentro gli abissi chiaroscuri del mio io, lasciandomi una melanconia sottile.
This has to be one of the most overrated and boring books I have ever attempted to read. I made it half way, but would have only finished if someone had a gun to my head.
i loved, loved, loved this book.
this is the book that adam duritz from the counting crows named the song "the rain king" after...i've meant to read it for years and years and just now got around to it.
favorite excerpts:"I had a voice that said I want!
I want?
More or less the same fear, more or less the same desire for thousands of generations.
Desire the same.
Only to repeat fear and desire without a change?
Any good man will break the cycle.
There is no issue from that cycle for a man who do not take things into his hands."
I belong in the service of the Queen I belong anywhere but in between She's been crying, I've been thinking And I am the rain king -Counting CrowsJust a great novel from a top American writer. Quite funny also.
I am a steady admirer of Saul Bellow and this since I read, some thirty years ago, “Humboldt’s Gift”.
And I was thinking, while reading “Henderson, the Rain King” how important (although irrelevant) is the first reading of an author.
For if I had read this book first, I doubt I have ever tried another.
On the other hand, the African tribal experience felt somehow deprecatory, its dark and black magic childish enough to border ridicule.
All along I felt the author tried his hand a little half-hearted, and I struggled to finish it out of respect for him.
Oh, I can see that this will turn out well.Saul Bellow is one of those Big Literary Dudes I've never read, but by reputation I was expecting him to be kind of like Philip Roth or J.M. Coetzee (who I did not love) — lots of manly wangsting to the tune of Fond Memories of Vagina.Okay, let me dial down the snark.
This is bawdy, spontaneous, poetic writing. Eugene Henderson, an overblown, twice-married, millionaire pig farmer and violin player is having an existential crisis. I want, I want, I want, I want, I want! This is the geshrei that drives fifty-five-year-old Henderson into and through a spiritual quest in Africa. He doesn’t know what he wants, just that “everybody is working, making, digging, bulldozing, trucking, loading, and so on . . .” until it is a form of madness. (I think he would be right
On one hand, Henderson wants to rescue everybody; on the other, he longs to be rescued:This was a beautiful, strange, special place, and I was moved by it.
I learned from the introduction that Bellow was practiced in (arguably the father of Western mind-body medicine) Wilhelm Reich’s body psychotherapies, and much of that work and characterology shows up in the book—a bonus for anybody with this knowledge.The writing is weighty, sometimes digressing in a kind of ADHD spasm, and Bellow lacks the precision I so admire in, my hero and Bellow’s contemporary, John Cheever, and the meticulous cleanliness that makes Murakami’s books so easy to read.
Now I have already mentioned that there was a disturbance in my heart, a voice that spoke there and said, I want, I want, I want! It happened every afternoon, and when I tried to suppress it got even stronger. It said only one thing, I want, I want! And I would ask, 'What do you want?' But this was all it would ever tell me. I've never been to Africa. I'd love to though - if anyone wants to float me a one-way ticket to Ouagadougou, maybe a layover in Zürich to pick up some luxury essentials, I'
There's a romance in the unknown, the untrammeled, and that romance is the central figure of Henderson the Rain King, Saul Bellow's novel about a rich but dissatisfied man who seeks the meaning of life in the African plains.
Africa doesn't change Henderson, rather the men he meets there help to reveal to him his true capacity of heart, his true capacity for good, his veritable capacity to change.But there remains in the background a beauty of experience, which commingles a beauty of the natural and a beauty of the human.
Bellow elucidates our human short-comings to appreciate natural beauty:
کتابی به غایت دوست داشتنی برای من.همیشه می دونستم این کتاب رو دوست خواهم داشت، ولی به علل مختلف در خریدش تاخیر میکردم.تا این که به وقت ش گرفتم ش، و به عادت دیرینه م بارها و بارها پیش از شروع به خوانش و در حین خوانش بو کردم ش و لذت بردم.با اون طراحی و قطع دوست داشتنی نشر خوب چشمه.از بد روزگار، کتاب رو به همراه کیفم و بسیاری وسائل شخصی و خانوادگی دیگر که کم ارزش هم نبودند، از ماشین مون دزدیدند.
از شما چه پنهون با این که کلی وسیله‌ دوست داشتنی مون توسط اون سارق خیر ندیده ربوده شد، اما داغ این کتاب که نصف ش رو خونده و خط کشی کرده بودم به همراه کتاب خیلی خوب فراسوی خواب به دلم.
Non in questo mondo in cui anche l’uomo diviene ciò che di più accessorio esista.Cosa c’entra Bellow?Permette di respirare a pieni polmoni e ci conduce nel cuore dell’Africa, alle radici del nostro essere uomini per un’archeologia del sentire.Il protagonista della vicenda si chiama Eugene Henderson ed è un uomo di cinquantacinque anni, benestante e “quasi” appagato dalla sua esistenza.
اونقدری که روی جلدش ازش تعریف کردن، جذاب نیست. پر از توصیف های خسته کننده است و موقع خوندنش همچین حس خوبی نداشتم، آخر سر هم به زور تمومش کردم.
A tradução brasileira me pareceu muito boa, pelas passagens que li, e não exibe nenhum desses problemas.
Ainda assim, o português da tradução lusa é mais belo, o que me fez decidir-me por esta como base para a leitura da obra.Minha identificação com o personagem principal, Henderson, foi enorme.
Ou talvez o que é pior (e mais próximo do conflito interior de Henderson): achei-o, mas não me arrisco a seguir-lhe o caminho, por covardia, ou talvez não saiba como fazê-lo, por inépcia.Viktor Frankl dizia que o sentido é que nos encontra, se estivermos receptivos.
...in an age of madness, to expect to be untouched by madness is a form of madness.
But the pursuitof sanity can be a form of madness, too.This book is filled with little gems like these.
This is, by far, my favorite Bellow.
This is just one of the questions that Bellow brought to the fore in the book...I think you should read it.
I think everyone should read it.
Some rich and successful but oh-so-depressed dillhole decides to go to Africa because, you know, foreign countries have ALL the answers because they're SO mysterious!I don't even feel like explaining.
Okay, maybe that would have made me like it a bit more.The way it's written is almost stream-of-consciousnesses so Henderson constantly jumps back to compare events that are going on in the present with stuff in the past that we as readers don't even know about yet.
or B) Are exactly like Henderson and need to stop reading depressing shit and pick up a Harry Potter book or something.
L'Africa che visita e che il lettore scopre con i suoi occhi è l'africa non invasa, non battuta dalla civiltà, una Africa incontaminata, pura, selvaggia in cui stringe amicizia con un indigeno.
E' l'africa dai colori che tendono al rosa e al rosso, è l'Africa delle popolazioni disperate per la perdita degli animali, la loro unica fonte di sostentamento, è l'Africa in cui vita e morte, morte e vita vivono a stretto contatto e dove Henderson impara la vita vera.
E la pioggia che scende dando vita alla danza che Eugene intraprende è il simbolo di chi cerca in qualche modo di alleviare le sue pene e il suo dolore..
So far I've only read this and Dangling Man, but I'm convinced that Saul Bellow is the most overrated American author of the 20th century.
I almost feel like I've met him.But that is just about the only good thing I can say about this book, apart from a few bits of all-right prose.
The main difference would be that Saul Bellow creates a schlemiel to do it, whereas Gilbert is the schlemiel herself...but that doesn't make Bellow's book any easier to read.On the plus side, though, if you're one of the inexplicably huge number of people who enjoyed E.P.L., then maybe this one is for you...
Are the modern achievements of civilization good or evil?
Isn’t it better to return to the primordial roots and become a part of a nature?Henderson – “a giant shadow, a man of flesh and blood, a restless seeker, pitiful and rude, a stubborn old lush with broken bridgework, threatening death and suicide” – is tired of civilization and in search of human origins he runs away to Africa.“All human accomplishment has this same origin, identically.
Imagination is a force of nature.
Is this not enough to make a person full of ecstasy?
Imagination, imagination, imagination!
It converts to actual.
Literature has no shortage of male protagonists suffering existential crises and somehow or other trying to find meaning in their lives.
But Eugene Henderson, the unfulfilled scorned son of a wealthy father (who still left him plenty of money) is a seeker with a difference.
He is a world-class fu**-up and he ups the ante on bad decisions after he decides to seek meaning in Africa.
The book is hysterically funny in a Saul Bellow sort of way (which means if you’re not into Bellow-style introspection, you may not laugh).
This is just a crazy book about a man, Henderson, traveling to Africa and trying to help out some native tribes.
The next tribe tries to make him their next king because he participates in some native dance which causes rain.Really, my review here cannot do it justice.
He desires something that is always out of reach and attempting to get it takes him to some interesting, sometimes terrible places, including disconcerting discoveries about himself.I'll write a better review later.
Grāmata, ko lasīju GR grupas rosināta, bet ņēmu rokās ar lielu skepsi, jo visur tiek uzsvērta saikne ar Hemingveju, bet ar šo klasiķi man ir ļoti saspringtas attiecības.
BET galu galā man grāmata pat ļoti patika.
Jo, ja vien es pareizi sapratu, Belovs pamanās no vienas puses izdarīt reveransu dižā EH virzienā, bet tajā pašā laikā gardi par viņu iesmiet.
Tieši tas pats attiecas uz garīguma meklējumiem.
Te atrodama gan galvenā varoņa pašironija, gan autora iesmējiens par miljonāra dzīves jēgas meklējumiem mežonīgā Āfrikas stūrī, bet arī parodija tā galu galā nav.
Droši vien Belovu lasīšu vēl.
This is the fifth Saul Bellow novel I have read.
It keeps popping up in the most unexpected novels and I have learned that it must be tastefully done or it drives me mad.So in 1959, Bellow published a novel that spoofs the mid-life crisis, the search for personal fulfillment, the African safari, and the American can-do attitude.
At the same time, Henderson actually resolves his mid-life crisis, finds personal fulfillment, has the best ever safari (yes, there are lion hunts), and refines his American bull-headed ways.How did he do that?
