https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/715995.The_Foundation_Pit

At once The Foundation Pit is a chilling view of the utopian ideal, but its themes run deep and show that the fate of humanity rests upon how exactly political and philosophical ideologies are carried out, and to what extent.
We often forget this when debating political views and concepts, that the reality is often dependent largely on who carries it out, regardless of how well it should work in theory.
He set out to write an allegorical satire of the horrors he witnessed, and in the process found himself so bound up in those horrors, horrors perpetuated by an ideology he once believed in (and still did, I suspect, in his idealism), that satire itself became far too constraining, and even his own reasoning abilities could not handle the influx of emotions dredged up by his tackling of the subject through writing, that his only option was to fall back into the arms of aesthetic intuition and write a book beyond all categorical limitations.So my ultimate appraisal is that The Foundation Pit’s absurdism, and its humor, is nothing more or less than intellectual realism; the product of a brain living through absurd situations encasing it like a prison ruled and structured by aberrant reason.
Like Mikhail Bulgakov (although this reads more like a gloomy Kafka) Platonov's novel is a scathing satire on Stalinism, in which he portrays a society systematically and regimented around a monstrous lie, one that plagues any meaning of hope and integrity for humanity.
Platonov's nightmare is filled with characters cut off from normal human feelings, emotions, and reality, they go about their labour like the walking dead.Layered with a brittle beauty, Platonov's totalitarianism vision is terrifying, and for the most part tremendously bleak, as we pass through the minds of various workers, engineers, peasants, and overseers as they puzzle over their dreary existence, and the gulf that separates it from their illogical hopes.
and then late in this short novel:"there was no truth in the world - or maybe there had been once, in some plant or heroic creature, but then a wandering beggar had come by and eaten the plant, or trampled this creature down there on the ground in lowliness, and then the beggar had died in an autumn gully and the wind had blown his body clean into nothing."in such passages platonov gets right to the core of what it means to be a human being; to be part of that miserable race which knows it serves no real purpose, is driven mad with that knowledge, and so invents all kinda things to convince itself otherwise.
This might be the one book, fact or fiction, I'd recommend about life in the early days of the Soviet Union.A group of builders are digging out the foundations for a building.
The men are struggling, down in the foundations, with the implications of the new regime, which is under construction and which therefore has turned the way of life, the way of thinking and all relationships upside down.
The most amazing thing is the language, just as Soviet foreign minister Molotov, while not drinking his cocktail, observed that peace is indivisible, change and struggle are also indivisible - everything is political so the choice of words, the use of language itself is deeply political and like Orwell's New Speak seeks to render certain ideas impossible and others inevitable.
bildiğimiz platonov romanlarından, öykülerinden daha farklı.
anlattıklarıyla, metaforlarıyla tam bir stalin dönemi eleştirisi.
bunu hem trajik, hem komik bir biçimde aktarıyor aslında.görev bilinciyle tutuşan atlar, demir döven ayılar, işleri bittiği an mutsuzluğa düşen proleterler...
ve platonov'un dili bilerek bozuk kullanması...
önce şaşırıp çeviride bir sorun olduğunu sandığım ama güney çeteo kızılırmak'tan hayatta beklemediğim bu kullanım, sonradan anlaşıldı ki bilerek yapılmış, bu nedenle aslında çevirisi çok güzel.
yer yer bozuk, kırık bir dil.
express'in ekim sayısında çiğdem öztürk bu kitapla ilgili çok güzel bir yazı yazmış ve yazarın asıl o kutsal dile dokunarak sovyetler'i eleştirdiğini söylemiş.
“ ‘Size, yoldaşlar, sendika aracılığıyla birtakım imtiyazlar sağlayacağım,’ dedi Paşkin.‘İmtiyazı nereden bulacaksın?’ diye sordu Safronov. ‘Onu evvela bizim yapıp sana devretmemiz lazım ki sen de bize sağlayasın.’ “(s.33)
الرواية هي نبوءة للكاتب الواقعي الكئيب، بلاتونوف، مدعومًا بما رآه في عصره لما آلت إليه الأمور بعد الثورة - ثورة 1905 - على روسيا القيصرية، ومحاولة تحرير الإنسان من ربقة الملكية والخروج بها إلى عهد الاشتراكية الرحب، والذي، بالمناسبة، لم يكن رحبًا أبدًا.قال ستالين عن هذه الرواية: هل حقًا نحن القادة بهذه البشاعة؟ وقال غوركي - والذي كرهته الآن، توًا، أن ليس هذا الوقت مناسبًا لمثل هذه الأفكار السوداوية، وقال عنها كثيرون ما يشبه ذلك.
لن أدعي أني كرهت الرواية لكونها مملة - فأنا أحب الملل، وكذلك بلاتونوف - لكن كنت أتمنى لو أن الرواية خرجت من أسر الاشتراكية وابتعدت قليلًا عن الواقع وحذافيره، ولو أن قصتها كانت أعمق قليلًا.
Platonov writes with a minimalist style in a stark Russian landscape in the midst of the absolute absurdity of a mindless Communist bureaucracy killing its people to dig a vast foundation pit in the middle of nowhere.
"All the poor and middle peasants worked with such zest of life as though they wanted to find salvation for themselves forever in the abyss of the foundation pit." Platonov is a man who knows well the abyss having spent a lifetime futilely trying to publish under a repressive Marxist regime.
Ein Roman aus der Zeit nach der Russischen Oktoberrevolution,eine Zeit des Umbruchs und der Zwangskollektivierung, die Menschensehen in der Zukunft nicht als Arbeit vor sich.Der eigentliche Akteur im Roman ist allerdings die Sprache, eine Herausforderung für den Leser, alle Figuren sprechen sonderbar und falsch, "Das ist kein Russisch sondern Kauderwelsch" sagte Stalin 1931.Ich persönlich fand es ironisch und natürlich vom Autor bewusst eingesetzt.
Die Baugrube ist ein Spiegelbild der post-revolutionären, sowjetischen Gesellschaft.
Hier versammeln sich alle Archetypen der damaligen Zeit, das Proletariat, die Intelligenz, Zweifler und Überzeugte.
Doch jede Aktivität erstickt in einer bleiernen Müdigkeit, die sich auf alle legt.
Selbst ein kleines Mädchen, die Tochter einer Bourgeoisen, das Symbol für den "Neuen Menschen", entpuppt sich lediglich als die personifizierte Grausamkeit in unschuldig-kindlichem Gewand.Das Buch durfte zu Lebzeiten des Autors nicht erscheinen.
Dadurch vermittelt sich unterschwellig, die Dysfunktionalität der Handelnden als Subjekte in der neuen Gesellschaftsordnung.Das ist keine leichte Lektüre, aber zugegeben eindrucksvoll.
Ich hab das Buch im Nachgang zu Andrzej Stasiuks Der Osten gelesen.
--The Foundation PitAfterwordAcknowledgements and Further ReadingAppendixNotes
'(...) não havia verdade neste mundo, ou talvez ela tivesse existido numa qualquer planta ou numa criatura heróica, mas passou um pobre caminheiro e comeu essa planta ou espezinhou a humilde criatura, e depois ele próprio morreu num barranco outonal e o vento soprou o seu corpo para o nada.'
asked the activist"There arent any",said Voshchev."One man was lying in his yard and told me that you ate the lastone when you where walking about collective farm and you suddenly felt hunger"."What must be clarified",declared the activist,"is not who ate the last cock,but who ate the first cock"."Maybe the first one dropped dead?
surmised an assistant activist"How in the world could he drop dead by himself?asked the activist in astonishment."Are you telling me he is a conscious saboteur "Marxism will be able to do everything.Why do you think Lenins lying there in Moscow still intact?.He is awaiting Science-he wants to rise again!."
I figured that I couldn't go wrong with The Foundation Pit, which his major novel and a damning allegory of the Soviet Russian state (Platonov was one of the first Russian thinkers to criticize as inhumane Stalin's plans for collectivization).
I'll have to read more by Platonov to be sure; but I highly doubt that his writing will overshadow the beautiful prose of Vasily Grossman, to name just one of the many great Russian writers since Chekhov.Having said that, I admire Platonov's vision, and there are definitely little gems, sometimes quite hidden away from immediate sight, in The Foundation Pit."Without truth I simply feel ashamed to be alive." (34)
He links his arm with the arm of the regime and says, "Come on, we are going this way, let's get a move on!" and the message is that when the programs are properly applied they will affect the leaders too, will affect Stalin too, and they will be painful, but that's fine, that is part of what should happen, because to build this utopia of the future many sacrifices will be necessary, enormous sacrifices.And those sacrifices include time, energy, body and soul.
Platonov's critique of Stalin comes not from the position of the anti-communist but from that of the true believer.
But a real bear that works in blacksmith's forge and who has a talent for sniffing out kulaks.If you're looking for a book where the characters speak in amazing political jargon because there's nothing else left for them, then this book is for you: "'Well and splendid!' said Chiklin.
We ourselves live without meaning to.''Without meaning to!' pronounced Chilkin--and did the peasant a blow in the face, so that he should start to live with conscious meaning."Even better, I didn't need to know the real stories about Stalinism to get into this story and its desperation/dread, but reading the book and then the afterword really made me want to learn more.
Throughout the slightly surreal narrative, this linguistic satire plays with revolutionary jargon to disrupt the heroic status of the workers.This irony, this disruption of linguistic meaning finds a parallel in the experience of the novel’s characters, who all exist in a thoroughly alienated state: Voshchev, the ‘hero’ drifts into his work having been sacked from a machine shop because he spent too much time thinking and slowed down production; the powerful peasant-turned-proletarian labourer Chiklin finds satisfaction only in physical work – but when he knocks someone down with a well-placed punch he is not responsible because it was not him, but his fist.
It took me a long time to get through ‘The Foundation Pit’ because it’s a dense, elusive, and confusing novel.
I was somewhat relieved to discover in the translator’s afterword that it wasn’t just me, as even in the original Russian, with detailed knowledge of Stalinist collectivisation and the bible, it is apparently tricky to understand.
The afterword and notes point out both that bears did actually sometimes work in forges at the time, while also suggesting a variety of allegorical purposes it may serve.
A nightmare of language suborned to meaninglessness. Double-speak eating its own tail before diffusing out into void and psychotic referencelessness. All in service to some end without means: the bright burning light of total totalitarianism.
Terrifying and sad book. What happens when you take out all individuality from people? You are left with empty caricatures. It is so well written though, you see other things, sadness, but also compassion and humor.Amazing discovery, Platonov.
why am i crying?why am i crying?why am i crying?
Set during the first Five-Year Plan (1928-32), it deals with the attempts of a group of labourers to dig the foundation pit of a vast building that is to house the local proletariat, before moving on to describe the expropriation and expulsion of a group of rich peasants from a nearby collective farm.
The Foundation Pit opens with one of Platonov’s most memorable paragraphs: On the thirtieth anniversary of the beginning of his private life, Voshchev was sacked from the small machine factory where he had until then got the means for his subsistence.
It’s like me – it only lives because it was born”), and establish the conflict between contemplation and action that runs through The Foundation Pit (“My body gets weak without truth.
Hakeza kitaptaki karakterler de ayrı ayrı analiz gerektiriyor.Hayatın anlamı üzerine düşünmek ve mutluluk arayışı yerine; temelleri atılan yeni ideolojik yapıya sorgusuz sualsiz itaatle kolektif bir hedefin neferi olmak, yazarın kabul etmekte zorlandığı bir yapı.
Özellikle de hümanizm içermeyen, hayatın değersizleştirilip, ölümün sıradanlaştırıldığı bir düşünce yapısında.Yazarın eleştirilerindeki haklılığı, yeni sistemle geçilmeye çalışılan kolektif çiftlik (Kolhoz/Sovhoz) ve kolektif yaşam çalışmalarında, hedefte ilk olarak “kan emici” “parazit” “burjuva” “ağa takımı” olarak tabir edilen eski varlıklı “Kulak” kesimi ve uşakları varken; zaman içerisinde temelleri atılan ideolojiye uyum sağlayamayan herkesin hedef tahtasına yerleşmesiyle ortaya çıkmış.
Ultimately, it's too transparent a satire—absurd caricatures abruptly shift into poetic, self-reflexive monologues rendering unnecessarily explicit an apparent division between the characters' actions (outwardly directed at an emancipatory horizon) and their internal thoughts (in which the former are revealed as farcical performances).
The more salient and disquieting critique would instead be to retain an unspoken gulf separating that which is rendered at the level of the text (what is said to be happening) and that which is submerged beneath direct representation (what is "really" happening).
The Foundation Pit is one of the most difficult books I’ve read in recent years, but it’s worth the effort if you enjoy dystopia or innovative language.
The book, written in 1929-1930, is an allegory of the era of collectivization: workers digging a pit for a foundation also find themselves digging, in effect, a collective grave.
Although I can't say I always enjoyed The Foundation Pit , I'm glad I read it.
Some of the episodes with politics and their attendant language, for example, felt a little too familiar because I've read a fair bit of socialist realism.

Translating the untranslatable.
Hope illuminates life:"A band came up to the barrack and began to make special lively sounds in which there was no thought but in which there was, on the other hand, an exultant foresensing that brought Voschev's body into a state of tingling joy." That seems just about as far from bleak as you can get - and this musician takes specific in delight that the sonorous pulse of tone is given so much efficacy.
The sentences are complex, the subject harrowing at times, the character development secondary to greater ideas at hand and mostly - the uncleared trails of thought that are part of Platonov's creative vision.
