https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17263.Mr_Tompkins_in_Paperback
Make Physics Easy Again!Are you scared of physics?
Don’t want to spend your valuable time to understand the complexity of the world of physics?
Do you think physics cannot be easy or physics cant be funny??
Come here!
Come here!One afternoon of a bank holiday Mr. Tompkins goes to attend a lecture on Theory of Relativity and falls asleep when the lecture goes over his head.
But only then he enters a dream world where everything is happening like the lecturer was saying.
Surprisingly, now the phenomena are easy to understand cause those are actually happening in front of his eyes.
George Gamow (during his "three decade vacation" in the USA) wrote a number of articles and books featuring Mr. Tompkins, a bank clerk with an especially easily influenced dream-life.
The dreams have a funny way of becoming stories and adventures that explain features of fundamental physics and cosmology (as of the 1960s).
The appearances by Father Paulini (Pauli) and Maxwell's Demon (dressed as a Butler but never without his tennis-racquet) are particular fun for me.
Strongly recommended to everyone just for the fun of it.
ForewordPrefaceAcknowledgementsIntroduction--Mr Tompkins in Paperback
The same structure is used in the second book, "Mr. Thomkins Explores the Atom", which describes quantum mechanics including atomic and nuclear structure.Gamow writes in a clear and humorous style that both enlightens and entertains.
(Considering the chronology, perhaps Feynman reminds one of Gamow.) He imagines what the world would be like if the speed of light was much smaller and is obtainable by a bicyclist.
In the second book, he imagines what would happen if Planck's constant were much larger.
(It has to do with the uncertainty principle.) General readers will like this book, and learn a lot of science.
Mr. Tompkins, a childlike fellow who works at a bank and has limited intellectual ambition, has various fantastical experiences (usually dreamed up while sleeping through lectures delivered by his father-in-law, a physics professor) which illustrate the laws of physics in extremely intuitive ways.
The book is geared to young readers or an audience with casual interest in the subject, but I must say I learned more than I'd like to admit.
This is a thoroughly charming little book with a pleasantly dated, mid-century feel.
This book is a commentary book on the theory of relativity.It explain it so much fun.
In maniera divertente e semplicissima, riesce a spiegare molti concetti della fisica moderna, riportandoli alla quotidianità.L'autore, George Gamov (1904-1968), fu un importante fisico e cosmologo, oltre che un brillante divulgatore scientifico, di origine russa ma dal 1936 naturalizzato statunitense.Fra l'altro, fu uno strenuo sostenitore della teoria del Big Bang e, nei suoi lavori, predisse l'esistenza della radiazione cosmica di fondo.
Without this book I would still be utterly lost trying to understand modern (circa 1950s) theoretical physics. While I'm still far from fluent in understanding all the nuances of relativity, this book provides a guided tour through it's perplexing concepts. Want to better understand Einstein? This is the book for you.
This is the coolest introduction to Physics out there, I actually read and reviewed it for my final project in my Physics class at the Maine School of Science and Mathematics way back in 1997. I still have a really fond place in my heart for this well-written introduction to complex concepts. LOVE IT!
Finally got to read Gamov's book on physics featuring Mr.Tompkins :) Gives a beautiful account of Einstein's Theory of Relativity and Quantum Mechanics in everyday language. It had one of the best, most accessible explanations of radioactivity that I have ever read. Longer review soon.
If you want to read up on quantum theory, this is the best place to start!
Mr.Tompkins is not your average book.
It is a collection of short stories all based around the same character learning about science.
The stories are usually entirely disconnected from each other and usually turn out to just be dreams.
If you like to learn about math and science I highly recommend this as the book tries to explain it in a way that lets you think about similarities to the macro world we live in compared to the micro world he usually explores.
The book talks about everything from how the speed of light works to subatomic particles qualities to things as big as the end and start of the universe.
Physics has never come naturally to me. I thought this book would help me understand more since it is supposedly written for children. Every once in a while, I understood something, but most of the time it went into the eyes and immediately rose up like steam through my brain without sticking anywhere. Oh well. I suppose if I repeatedly attempt to understand, eventually I'll get it. Fortunately, I own this book and can easily read it again if I can bear it. The fact that it's somewhat outdated will lessen that possibility. I do like what I understood.
I read translated versions of these books as a boy, and they were part of the reason that I pursued an education and work life focused on natural sciences and technology. So even if theoretical physics may have evolved somewhat since the midlle of the 20th century, I thought it would be interesting to revisit Gamow's little gems. I found the stories to still be charming, but maybe three decades passed had cast a too romantic light, raising my expectations to an unrealistic level. three-and-a-half stars.
Mr. Tompkins has a bad habit of falling asleep during his friend the Physics professor’s lectures and having wild dreams set in the strange worlds of quantum physics and atomic particles. The book is a blend of these fanciful adventures with straightforward discussions of science. Last revised in the mid 60s so it might not be totally up to date, but it’s mainly of interest for Gamow’s sometimes humorous way in popularizing fairly difficult topics.
Tompkins, a little clerk of a big city bank.George Gamow wrote the first story in 1938 and subsequently had it rejected by Harper’s Magazine.
P. Snow, who is the editor of a popular scientific magazine Discovery published by the Cambridge University Press.’ So I did just this, and a week later came a telegram from Snow saying: ‘Your article will be published in the next issue.
In 1940 Cambridge University Press published a book form of the articles called Mr Tompkins in Wonderland.
Then in 1965 Cambridge University Press united these two books into this current volume, which updated the stories with current advances in physics, illustrations by Gamow and verses and songs (!) written by Gamow’s wife Barbara.
A fun and imaginative introduction to quantum mechanics for the layperson. Didn't age the greatest, and would honestly in the modern day and age probably be an all-CGI movie. Actually, they basically made such a movie in like 2010 or so, but I forgot its name. WIll update this when I recall the name.
Review of ‘Mr Tomkins in Paperback’ (1994) by George Gamow, Canto Books (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK.Reviewer W.
Mr Tomkins in Wonderland was originally published by Cambridge University Press in 1940.
Mr Tomkins Explores the Atom was published by Cambridge University Press in 1944.
The two volumes have been through different editions and reprints ever since and in 1994, Cambridge University Press marked more than half a century of Mr Tomkins by bringing out a joint paperback volume of all the Mr Tomkins stories.

Classical physics has probabilities, which are nonnegative real numbers that add up to 1 (you don't know what direction the tiger is going to attack from, but you know that it has to attack from somewhere); what's different about quantum physics is that it has amplitudes, which are complex numbers the squares of magnitudes of which add up to 1, so the tiger can constructively or destructively interfere with itself.
Now, how do you explain it to a reader who may not have heard of complex numbers?
"Curiosity makes a scientist"This book tells the story of a banker who wants to learn something new and end up in a relativity class.
Of course, he get's so bored than he falls asleep and visit a world ruled by relativity.It continues with lectures on physics Mr Tompkins attempt during which he always manage to grab some more sleep and some more dreams about quantum mechanics and atoms.Even if destine for a large public, I can understand why some people might be tempted to take a nap during the lecture.
I would recommend this book to anyone wanting a easy way into quantum mechanics and atomic physics.
Mr. Tompkins in Wonderland, and Mr. Tompkins Explores the Atom, are two adorable gems by physicist George Gamow.In story format, Gamow presents important concepts to the general public.
The themes are dated -- e.g., Mr. Tompkins attends lectures in order to win the favor of a professor whose daughter he wishes to court; however, the style is nevertheless effective -- and funny.There is a contemporary version, an "update" of Gamow's Mr. Tompkins works, which may be more readily accessible to modern students.
Even so, I recommend this original version because it is the first of its kind -- a creative, innovative approach by a physicist who was present during the time of these ground-breaking developments in physics.
This book surprised me.
Mr. Coakes had lent it to me after a discussion we had on some science theories.
At first I thought it was going to be like reading a text book.
Although i kept me thoroughly entertained and mentally challenged as it described many current and new ideas in theoretical physics.
The whole book is written in 3rd person, and it tells the story of Mr. Tompkins, a sometimes too curious man who find himself trapped in many predicaments.
Again this book really surprised me, it was very entertaining and extremely fascinating.
I recommend this book to anyone who likes to read about science.
I finished reading this story for no other reason than completing a recommendation from a friend who has been requesting I read some of his favorite books.
I have a very limited knowledge and passion for physics, but my friend insisted that I would still find enjoyment in the basic storyline that ran through the overarching plot.
Even had I possessed a prior interest in physics, the story itself was painfully boring and seemed to arbitrarily exist for the sake of tying the chapters together.
Essentially, reading this book felt like listening to the ranting and rambling lectures of a monotone physics professor.
What was this doing on my "want to read" shelf?
I've read this book many times, starting at the age of about 12, and I absolutely love it!
But the stories, with their old-fashioned charm, do most of the teaching and entertaining here.
I recently shared this book with a teen volunteer who was introducing younger kids to Einstein's theories (in a class on cosmology).
The theories are no longer cutting-edge, as they were in the 1950s, but I don't think this book will ever grow old.(And I do want to reread it soon.)

Джордж Гамов е създал забавно и образователно пътуване в квантовата джунгла и други трудно разбираеми за неспециалисти области на физиката. С малки изключения е заложил на находчиви метафори, стихове и картинки, вместо на формули и суха материя в академичен стил. Вероятно за по-ясно и опростено представяне е вложил доста наивитет във въпросите и сънищата на мистър Томпкинс, който е особено осезаем при четенето им в наши дни. Но за времето, когато е писана и публикувана (1938-1944 г.), е била много необходима, полезна и новаторска книга, макар и приемана в началото само като зле написана фантастика.
Back in print! For older children/teens and even adults who want to learn some quantum chemistry. I love the way George Gamow explains chemistry concepts. Mr Tompkins shrinks ala Alice in Wonderland to quantum/atomic size and exlores on a personal level the wonders of small things. And it is oh sofun and personal too - the electrons dance and everything is not as it seems. Nothing is like things are in the "real" world. Science is explained along the way, along with the history of those who discovered various facts. Should be required reading.
I've read this book a few times; I love it and must recommend Gamow to non-scientists interested in the major problems/theories in physics. Gamow uses Mr. Thompson as a vehicle to describe basic comsmological concepts, chemistry, geometry, and a little statistics as well. He is a good enough writer and although the stories are corny, I still learned something after each chapter. Today, I have probably a 10% chance at describing General Relativity. That's infinitely greater than where I was previous.
Tämä toimi näennäisesti naivista lähtökohdasta huolimatta ihan hyvin. Mikään suuri kirjoittajalahjakkuus herra Gamov ei mielestäni ole, mutta hän oli keksinyt loistavan idean havainnollistaa fysiikan suureita tuomalla niiden vaikutukset ilmi arkitodellisuudessa - jos siis vaikkapa valon nopeus olisi 300 km/tunnissa. Suhtellisuusteoria ja Heisenbergin epätarkkuuperiaate avautuivat paremmin kuin koskaan, ainakin minulle.
