https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32441.The_Good_Guy
There's so much wrong with Dean Koontz's The Good Guy that one might wonder how the universe did not implode on the day of its publication.
In case you don't, here it is: A stranger walks into a bar and mistakes an ordinary guy for his client, a killer hired to kill a woman.
says Dean Koontz as he introduces a beautiful, well spoken lady, a hero with a tainted past who are on the run from, surprise surprise, one dimensional killer is coming right up to get them sir!
Another Koontz book full of flaws and more than a little silly, but damn good fun for a cold winter's day.
The beginning is especially good, some tight writing and snarky wit.
It doesn't quite hold for the rest of the book but it's enough to keep you page turning, even if, like me, you could do without the inevitable romance...
Koontz's books are like a murderous hug, you know what you're getting into, a bit stabby but it'll all be alright in the end.Thanks to Dean for the recommendation, this made my day at work pass super quick.
I was right.At this point in my Koontz reading extravaganza I’ve made a few generalizations about his books.
Meaning, if the lead character doesn’t have special powers, then that character has a pet (usually a dog) that does.
Odd Thomas, my favorite Koontz character, has both, super powers and wit.
Still I think it’s one of my favorite Koontz books.Most of his books you get the lead character’s, er, characteristics and background laid out right from the get-go.
Besides having a ridiculous premise (dude thinks guy at bar is hired hitman) and guy the so called Good Guy decides to do what it takes to stop a woman he does t know from getting killed.
She can't answer questions or act like a regular human being, just talks in puzzles for most of the book before pushing a big reveal onto Tim about her life that I didn't buy for a second.The other characters are barely in this and we just follow Tim and Linda as they hide from the bad guy.Tim and Linda also make stupid decisions so that was fun to read (no it wasn't).
Soon thereafter, another man, the real killer enters and mistakes Tim for the client.
Of course, there is that element of macho fantasy: the ostensible ordinary guy who comes to the defense and rescue of the damsel.What really sets this book apart from so many ordinary thrillers is the dialogue.
The banter between Tim and Linda as they become closer is marvelous, and the scene where Krait, the killer with extraordinary connections, assumes a personality to allay the suspicions of a nosy mother of a couple whose house he is temporarily using as a refuge is terrifically believable even while being most improbable.
Koontzland Group Read - May 2018  On this read, I add a theme of the simple picture of Linda(writer) - the real reason to kill Linda - she was in the wrong place at the wrong time. She was in a photo with a politician, a terrorist group, but she was innocent in the background. Krait (the hit man) captured her mom, but an undercover US organization enters to save them. The end has a twist I did not expect. Tim returns to his fiancée, instead of staying with the relationships gained with Linda i
Koontzland Group Read - May 2018
On this read, I add a theme of the simple picture of Linda(writer) - the real reason to kill Linda - she was in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Tim returns to his fiancée, instead of staying with the relationships gained with Linda in the chases.
Tim tells Linda and they try to run away from the hit man, Krait.
The end to Krait is what you would expect.
But at the end it could have closer with Tim & Linda after all they experienced.
What was the real reason to kill Linda?
You get the rest when she’s gone.”The stranger walks out, leaving a photo of the pretty woman marked for death, and her address.
In minutes another stranger sits next to Tim. This one is a cold-blooded killer who believes Tim is the man who has hired him.Thinking fast, Tim says, “I’ve had a change of heart.
And when Tim secretly follows the man out of the tavern, he gets a further shock: the hired killer is a cop.Tim enlists the aid of his friends, even those in his mysterious past, and sets out to help save the woman marked for death.
I found that even though I despised the evil character, Krait, I was just as attached to him as I was the main characters, Tim and Linda.This novel had a very interesting and scary plot.
It is a plot that could very well be happening or could happen to anyone that unknowingly was in the wrong place at the wrong time.Krait had received payment by his “people” numerous times previously to kill.
I do not think the reader is totally surprised by the ending, but what is surprising is what we learn about the characters and why the mission to kill Linda took place.
Dean Koontz has a distinctive style in the thriller genre, and I have always liked it.
I could not put this book down, and read the whole thing in three days despite being on vacation and visiting relatives.The book’s strength, as with many of Koontz’s, resides in a tight, twisty-turny plot, and in very well drawn characters.
Koontz will have you caring about them both from the get-go, and you will be hard-pressed to put this book down without making sure they are both safe.If you have never tried a Dean Koontz book, this is as good as it gets, and a reasonable one to get you started.
If you have read Koontz and you like his style, you will love this one.
The ending is the weakest. Too much tom foolery for such a focused story. But....the journey is what its all about, right? That is a pretty good thing about this book. Its a good ride. Koontz comes up with the creepiest bad guys.
This is your typical Koontz story - extremely bad guy chasing good guy(s)and in this one, the good guys don't know why they're being targeted for murder.
The good guy, (hence the title), Tim, is mistaken for a hired killer in a bar and given an envelope with $10,000 and a picture of a woman whom he is supposed to kill.
I don't think so - most normal people would want to immediately know the news.
Of course, Tim & Linda each have "troubled backgrounds" that we don't find out about until the end of the story.
Dean Koontz is known for his realistic fantasy, taking ordinary people and putting them into extraordinary predicaments, usually with a touch of the supernatural for good measure.
The supernatural is missing from this book, but in my opinion, it's what makes it so good.
There's something so sparce and poetic about Koontz's writing, something about the way he reveals his characters in bits and pieces that really adds to the drama of the story.
It's got harsh humor, humanity, drama, action, horror, intrigue and a little good old-fashioned conspiracy thrown in for good measure.
Now I know how it is that I found this book in my Audible library, purchased in 2012, with neither any notation in my GR catalogue nor any memory of ever having listened to it. I can only conclude, after listening for an hour, that I was so bored by it that I forgot about it as soon as I listened to it the first time. So now I’m leaving a record of it, so I don’t make this mistake again in another 5 years. DNF at 10%, after giving it a full hour.
This is my first Koontz book and I liked it.
It gives me hope that when I'm an adult I can actually read novels that aren't too provocative.
This is compared to some of the other adult books I've read.
There are very slight innuendos and the bad guy pees on stuff he doesn't like which I thought was weird.Maybe it’s because I'm not an adult but I don't think people actually talk like the characters in this book do.
I just didn't get as into the book as I was hoping for.
The first three chapters or so held so much promise, with a tighter style than I'm used to seeing from Dean Koontz and some really nifty wordplay. I could almost describe it as Koontz channeling David Mamet or Aaron Sorkin. The remainder of the narrative, however, just didn't deliver. This is your usual Koontz, but too much so. A lot of it just felt old. It might have been more interesting if the hero had been just a regular guy, and if Koontz could have kept his over-romanticizing in check.
Typical Koontz book. Decent but extremely wordy. He can get overly descriptive and rambling at times. I'm sorry but I don't need 2 paragraphs describing a door in order to set the scene. About 70% of the time I spend reading his books I am just wishing he'd move on to the next scene already.
She’s Linda Paquette who lives in Laguna Beach.A few minutes later the actual killer shows up.
What do you do?Carrier plays along, tells the man that he’s decided not to go through with it and to take the ten thousand as a “kill fee.” The man leaves.
And now they’re after both Carrier and the original target.The Good Guy was a wonderful story of action and suspense.
And then at the end of the book, when you think it’s all about a kill, Koontz twists it.
It’s a book that also makes you think about how you live.
It was interesting, it was enjoyable enough to have me reading until the end, but it was far from the book I’d hoped it would be.
In other words, The Good Guy is far from the best example of what Koontz can do.The Good Guy had such an interesting premise, yet it failed to hit the sweet spot that would have ensured a wonderful read.
In fact, this wasn’t quite a full three-star rating, if I’m being brutally honest.Overall, The Good Guy is far from my favourite Koontz read.
A slightly above average Hitchcockesque thriller about an ordinary joe named Tim Carrier as he first mistaken for a hit-man and then mistaken for the person hiring the actual hit-man. A well-written wrong place at the wrong time tale. With this novel, along with 'The Husband' also by Koontz, I would argue that Koontz might be better at the crime thriller genre than his usually preachy supernatural tales. 3.2/5
You get the rest when she’s gone.” As Tim takes in the face of the pretty woman in the photograph, the jittery man leaves, and Tim Carrier is faced with a dilemma when he sees the intended recipient of the money, photo, and grisly instructions step through the door and glance furtively around the bar.
Well, Dean Koontz is a name that I’ve heard many times and very long ago but surprisingly, I’ve never read any of his books until now.This book is about a man, Timothy Carrier, who is mistaken as a hit man and given ten thousand dollars and a woman’s picture to kill her.
When the real killer arrives, Tim gives him the ten thousand as a no-kill fee and keeps the woman’s picture, saying that he changed his mind and didn’t want her killed.Of course, the mistake is eventually, and too soon, discovered.
This one started off phenomenally well -- a chance encounter at a bar involving mistaken identities and a contract "hit" on an unknown woman.Unfortunately, while well written and peopled with interesting characters, the novel didn't sustain the type of suspense I usually expect from Koontz.
There were also some scenes in the novel involving dialogue between the two main characters that came off as either pedestrian or pedantic.
This was frustrating, because other scenes of dialogue involving the antagonist and his victims were really well crafted and intriguing.In all, a pretty decent story, but not one of Koontz's best.
Another good one from Koontz. This is a quick, suspenseful read with good characters. My only issue with this book is that I wanted to know the motivation behind the bad guy, Krait. I know it is obviously supposed to be all about the good guy, but I wanted to understand the bad guy too. Perhaps the message is just that there is unexplained evil in the world.
In my opinion, Koontz can do no wrong. The man is one of the most solid storytellers out there. He knows how to spin an engaging and captivating tale, he's eloquent and literary without being pompous, and he creates characters that you love and hate. He's brilliant. I'd give ten stars if I could.
Tim is mistaken for a hired killer and given a manila envelope stuffed with cash and the photo of a pretty woman.
The rest when she's gone." Tim must decide, "help or run."What a story with sharp images.
He's a cruel man who's intent on murdering people.
One scene he talks about a woman who liked Alice and Wonderland.
So the killer puts the mirror through her.
This is the man Tim and Linda must run from.
Yet, the killer seems to have unlimited resources to find them.Tension filled the scenes as did mystery.
This wasn't a terrible story, it did keep moving and i liked the characters.
But i think i needed a little bit more about either the mysterious very weird killer for hire, or "the gentleman's club" that employs him.
I'm a bit dense sometimes and the calling in a favor from a very important man's mama to stop the bad guys club was really lame to me.
I would also expect all the loose ends which was tim etc to have been cleaned up far before he could make any plans for the future.
The ending really fell apart.and well I just don't like Koontz a whole lot.

I think not...Every good guy needs a bad guy to battle & this one comes in the form of Krait.
Were we meant to think that Krait was some sort of supernatural being?
Linda was far too placid & seemed to have no panic or concern at the situations being played out around.
Carrier's mother too was apparently made of the same unflappable stuff.
Back to Linda, I felt the story about her parents was totally unnecessary & I didn't like it....but what I did like..& it really made me smile...
This book was darkly funny and a throughly enjoyable read. I would definitely recommend it.
4 stars.🇺🇸🤙
