https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46677.Alexander_and_the_Terrible_Horrible_No_Good_Very_Bad_Day
Burned in my brain forever.
First, because of the wonderful list of descriptors in the title, repeated throughout the story.
I must have hit it at the right time in language development, because it stuck in my mind.
I think I used that phrase "terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day," for a couple of decades, usually in jest or as a way of mocking my drama.
Second, because it was the first library book I ever lost.
I'm pretty sure I was freaked out, but I remember the librarians as being nicely firm about it.
Yet it remains a guilty scar.
My son and I adore this book! It is a wonderful story about a kid who is really having a tough time. Maybe he should move to Australia? The artwork is wonderful. This is the PERFECT book for kids who are feeling the blues and need a bit of perspective. Fantastic.
Who hasn't had this sort of a day? For Alexander, it starts out bad and just gets worse and worse.A great book to share with a kid who gets frustrated when 'everything seems to go wrong for me!'I love the illustrations in this, the simple situations gone bad, and Alexander's very real reactions to them.
I bought this book in 1989.
Well, my parents bought it for me.
I was in first grade.I loved this book as a kid.I read it tonight to my daughters for the first time.
I'm pretty sure they didn't understand the message that everybody has bad days, no matter where you are, but it was fun reading to them - all tucked in and what not.It was a nice piece of nostalgia for me, as well as making me picture myself as an adult and a kid at the same time.
I've read dozens of Judith Viorst's books....(my kids had most of them)....A new book is coming out soon! Sounds wonderful! Great books to give the grandchildren) .... (Lisi & Jan)...............This review is in honor of *Jan*....who's daughter is having her first baby today!!!!!Congratulations, JAN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!My candle is glowing .....in honor of the new Bambino!!!! Sooooooooooo Happy for you 'grandma'!
One of the all-time classics. I loved this one as a kid, and I love it all the more as a grown-up reading it to my boys.I'm dimly aware they made a movie based on the book, though I have no idea why. If you watched the movie and haven't read this book, I fear you're done yourself a great injustice. Please consider picking up the book. It's well worth your time.
I thought this book was an appropriate book to read.
Alexander is having a horrible day.
He wakes up out of sorts and the day is one big horror show.
I think what I like most about this story is the end.
She says, some days are like that.
I pretty much slept the entire day.
I feel like I'm back in the land of the living today.
It was a rough day.The artwork is black and white drawings, nothing fancy.
The kids related to this story instantly.
Both of them were relating stories of bad days.
"Some days are like that...
Even in Australia."This is one of those books that has so many levels (like a parfait, or an onion).
On one level it is the story of Alexander, an ordinary kid whose day doesn't go as he wants it to.
Yet it is also a treatise on the human condition - our selfishness and self-centeredness, the travails and hardships that assail each person's life, and the resolute courage needed to stand our ground and live our lives where we find ourselves, one day at a time.
Even on the days we'd rather move to Australia.
First Read: I read this at my sister's house and thought it was one of the best children's books I had ever read. I laughed and laughed. Enjoyed it so much.Second * Read: Something about this book that has tickled me in every way. So I found another copy and have read it several times. Then this last week I went to the library and found a video of "Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day." Again we enjoyed it so much and laughed and laughed. We don't always enjoy life as much as we should. Enjoy!!!
Alexander wakes up with gum in his hair and his day just goes downhill from there.
His parents aren’t exactly sympathetic and it still isn’t over because before his day is done he is going to have to watch kissing on television and eat lima beans for dinner.
I HATE lima beans!!) The pencil and ink sketches by Ray Cruz are the perfect medium for conveying Alexander’s day.Alexander is an ‘every kid’ as the success of the entire series proves and this book is just a classic.
Not so much for preschool because it's a more formulated story and it's in black and white, but my 5 yr old loves it. About a boy who just has a bad day, something any kid can relate to. A great story.
“Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day” is truly one of the most memorable books ever created!I have clearly enjoyed this book as Judith Viorst has done a great job at writing this book and Ray Cruz’s illustrations also contribute greatly to the story’s humor.
Judith Viorst makes the story extremely humorous and creative as the book is narrated by Alexander himself as he tells the audience about the terrible day he is having and many children will definitely relate to Alexander’s situation as the situation appears from his own perspective.
My oldest son loved this book when he was younger. I must have read it a hundred times to him!
I know this is a beloved classic, but I just didn't care for it.
I think my kid just takes it literally, that this boy is having a bad day and nothing is fair, and sympathizes with him.
I think by the time a kid gets old enough for the intended message that we all have bad days and get grumpy, they're too old to like the book, so I don't think it succeeds on that level.
But that said, younger kids do like it anyway.Really, though, who goes to bed with gum in their mouth?!
I hear there's a movie coming out which is odd.
I have no idea what they'll do because there's not enough plot here to fill a short, but just in case, I recommend you read it now before you hear anything about any film.
Form your own impressions first because this is such a great book.One of my favorite lines is:At school, Mrs. Dickens liked Paul's picture of the sailboat more than my picture of the invisible castle.And yes, the illustration showed a blank piece of paper.The illustrations are black and white but they're perfect for the story.5++++ stars
One of my favorite childhood books because somedays are like that...even in Australia!
The story is about a naughty boy who describes how his day went from morning to night time.
Alexander, the youngest boy in the story, and the narrator as well, had to endure bad incidents in school, at the dentist office, with his brothers and mom while shopping for shoes, at his Dad’s office, and back at home.
All, I have to say is “Life is not fair for five years old boys here or in Australia!”The illustrations are interesting.
After reading about the illustrator, I found he that Ray Cruz grew up in New York City and has been drawing since he was five years old.
ONLY 32 pages but if well-passionately written it will count as 300,Have you ever had a bad day?,sil

I bought this for my little brother (4) because I'm religiously stalking Patrick Rothfuss' children's book reviews. He's not just a great Author, he's also a real cute Daddy, btw. The book itself is lovely, I highly recommend it. Can't wait to read it to my little Brothers.
Gosh, when I was a kid, I remember this book being awesome, but reading it again as an adult was just ok. I don't think my kid was overly impressed with it either.
The ten year old's review - "These seem like solvable problems".
Alexander was going to have a bad day, but on the last page he would go to bed and dream sweet dreams and wake up to a better tomorrow.
He got the worst seat in the car on the way to school, and the school day was more of the same: suffering, drudgery, and existential pain.
When something terribly horrible happened to Alexander, he'd think to himself, "Tomorrow, I'm going to go to Australia." It's a refrain he repeated to himself often throughout the day, and it's the only way he got through the torment.
Australia is the escape from the terror, the horror, the no good, very bad slog of daily existence!
I read this as a child, but it didn't really stick in my memory. Looking at it now, all these years later, I can see myself clearly in the boy who is have the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day. He is me absolutely. I wonder if it is too late to move to Australia? o_0
The book is about a young boy named Alexander.
This is not a book for young kids to read.
If they read this, then they will feel the need to act the same way.The book takes place in modern day.
The boy goes to many places.
He gets upset a lot if something does not go his way.I did not like this book that much.
This is not a book for younger kids to read.
If they read this, then they will feel the need to act the same way.
I would not recommend this to any young kids who want to read a book.
I read the book Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day by Judith Viorst.
It was about a young boy named Alex who wakes up to a start of a terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day!
The main characters in this book were Alexander, Anthony, Nick, and Paul.
Alexander was the boy who tried everything he could to make his day a little better but never could.
It was a cute how Alexander never seemed to get a break, but for some reason thought if he moved to Australia it would be better.
I've got news for ya, kid. Things are just as bad in Australia.
Okay, I did not like this book.
I can sense that a lot of it is suppose to be humerous, but I didn't like the overall negative feeling the book has.
Also I don't like how Alexander acts, I feel like he is setting a very bad example for children without a remedy.
Although I did not appreciate the content so much I really appreciated the pictures, I feel like they are very creative.
However I do not think I will use this in my classrooms or with my children because of some of the negative content.
Alexander believes that he is having such a terrible day that he coins the day a terrible, bad, no good, very bad day. A bunch of things go wrong and Alexander has a negative outlook on everything and believes everything would be in Australia. However, his mom reminds him and the reader that we all will have very terrible, bad days.
It is about Alexander who as a bad day a bunch of bad things happen to him and he said it was the worst day ever after all the bad things happen to him.It was a great story it would be a good story becuse little kids will like it becuse I read it to my little brother and he loved it so much.
