https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6219.The_Cross
But I felt like there were so many children, it was hard to feel for them all; interestingly, I think this may have been on purpose since the author implies Kristen lost track of a few of them as well.
Of course you know that he's always loved Kristen, but the admitting of it is so horrible to watch.
The Simon/Kristen/Ramborg triangle was definitely my favorite of the many, many story arcs.Finally, I have to mention the religious thing.
It's on nearly every page, but it's seamless and fascinating; this aspect of the story alone is enough to distance it from modern life in a very fundamental way.
This is the third book of the Kristin Lavransdatter trilogy. Here are links to my reviews of the previous two books,  The Wreath  and  The Wife . This book covers the final third of Kristin's life (circa 1299-1350). The final years of anyone's life is full of endings, separations and goodbyes. The same was true for Kristin. First she is separated from her younger sister due to an insult given between their husbands. Then when her brother-in-law dies her sister quickly remarries and moves to a di
This is the third book of the Kristin Lavransdatter trilogy.
. This book covers the final third of Kristin's life (circa 1299-1350).
The final years of anyone's life is full of endings, separations and goodbyes.
First she is separated from her younger sister due to an insult given between their husbands.
In the end she feels unwanted at her home estate and joins a convent.
Sigrid Undset won the 1928 Nobel Prize in Literature largely because of the Kristin Lavransdatter trilogy.
These are feelings with which most parents can identify.Was this how she would see her struggle end?
Fortunately, that’s a long way from the truth – the plot picks up again after the slower and more contemplative second volume, balancing its detailed portrayal of medieval life with plenty of juicy drama.But the heart of the story is Kristin’s struggle for fulfillment in her role as wife and mother.
As a modern reader, it can be easy to get frustrated with Kristin’s silent resentment of Erlend – you want her to either deal with the problems in the marriage or move on.
Meanwhile, in the shadow of their parents’ tumultuous marriage, their sons are growing into young men, and Kristin’s influence in their lives is on the wane, to her distress.Others have found this volume depressing, and yes, it’s a bit melancholy.
Kristin Lavransdatter 3: Korset=The Cross (Kristin Lavransdatter, #3), Sigrid Undset
I'm just gonna crawl in a hole now and cry for several hours about this beautifully tragic story.
But it dimly occurred to the mother that in her anguish and sorrow and live, each time the fruit of sin had ripened to sorrow, that was when her earthbound and willful soul managed to capture a trace of the heavenly light.”“Surely she had never asked God for anything except that he should let her have her will.
And every time she had been granted what she asked for—for the most part.
Now here she sat with a contrite heart—not because she had sinned against God but because she was unhappy that she had been allowed to follow her will to the road’s end.”
I believe this post on Kristin Lavransdatter will be more popular than last, -at least, this trilogy is better known and well read everywhere around me.Sigrid Undset was born in Denmark, but her family moved to Norway when she was two years old. She was a novelist that was awarded the Nobel Prize for literature in 1928. Her best-known work is Kristin Lavransdatter, a trilogy about life in Scandinavia in the Middle Ages, portrayed through the experiences of a woman from birth until death. Its thr
I believe this post on Kristin Lavransdatter will be more popular than last, -at least, this trilogy is better known and well read everywhere around me.Sigrid Undset was born in Denmark, but her family moved to Norway when she was two years old.
Her trilogy on the life of Kristin Lavransdatter, daughter (datter) of Lavrans, gained some new interest when her work was translated for a second time in 1997 by the award winning translator Tiina Nunnally.
Three years later, I decided to read the last book in the trilogy.
The spiritual facets of the book are ingrained in the life of the characters, in the times they are living.
I loved these books.
They were just heartbreaking, but so real.
Why is it that some really basic truths about life are entirely non-apparent until I read a book that shows them up?
What is it about fiction that can spur us to realize true things we haven't understood through living life directly?
That is a mystery on par with the deepest I know.
They read exactly like real life, beautiful, heartbreaking, breathtaking; but somehow they encapsulate it in a way that brings some quanta of understanding that wasn't there before.
Please read and fall in love with these books.
I know I did.
I loved this trilogy! Last night I finished the this, the last of the trilogy and was profoundly effected by it. I got these three novels from the library, but need to purchase it for my bookshelf, which is reserved for only my favorite books. I tell everyone I can about these novels and how great they are, although no one I have met ever heard of the novels nor the author. Lovely! Wonderful! Profound! Intense!
It is an incredibly powerful story as a whole and one thing I will say is that I see the trilogy as one work - you should really read all three books or it’s difficult to unpack the treasures and overall message.
At times it can feel like quite a depressing depiction of life, but this is exactly why it is so important to read it right through.
I don’t plan to get into the many details needed to do this work justice on here, so if you’d like to know my thoughts in detail bring it up in person some time :).
Much to my surprise and delight, I was so completely pulled into the mindset, time, and place of Kristin Lavrensdatter that I not only understood the arch of her character intellectually, but was also profoundly moved by it.
The first time was when, as a girl, I came to the end of Steinbeck's "Grapes of Wrath." It could not have happened again, as it did with this book withou tmy having read the full thousand and sixty plus pages of the trilogy as one piece.
I'm so happy this trilogy is over!
I wasn't sure I would be able to finish, but I did.
The only good part of this book was the last 2o pages when it dealt with the historical event of the Black Death in Norway.
The back of the book was kind of misleading in talking about this event like it was a big part of the book.
I kept reading waiting for it and out of 403 pages that part doesn't start till 382.
Basically, I would have preferred a non-fiction history book on Norway during this time than these novels with characters which I disliked.
I have finally finished the third book of the Kristin Lavransdatter trilogy.The trilogy is epic. I wouldn't call it enjoyable -- I felt very frustrated with Kristin throughout all three books, although I appreciated her journey the most in book three. This last book was the best of the three.It was worth the read for me, to learn about medieval Norway (the land of my ancestors). I also found the exploration of medieval Catholicism and its mixture with superstition fascinating.
There are so many things worth talking about, but what seems like it's going to stick with me the most is the role of God-given male power in Kristin's world.
In a remarkable moment in the second book, her father tells her, "You struggle like a colt that has been tied up in the stable for the first time, whenever your heartstrings are bound." She doesn't want to accept the traditional fate of women, to love deeply but without power.
Kristen's life is winding down, and in this third book she is gradually bereft of every human relationship she once valued, from husband and sister to friend and sons.
While I understand the popularity and the literary value of this series of novels, I cannot say that I "liked" them, because they left me just sad and a little angry rather than ever feeling delighted, hopeful, or uplifted.
So, for me, not a great series, but I understand the literary value and the reason it is popular among some groups.
I reread the last two pages lingeringly, not wanting the book to end.
In the book, Kristin Lavransdatter, you come to really know the woman by that name.
She was a very sympathetic character because, while far from perfect, she loved so deeply and passionately where she did love; she learned from her mistakes and she forgave whole-heartedly.A fascinating story which I found myself thinking about when I wasn’t reading it, longing to get back to and yet hoping it would never end.
The best book about the Middle Ages I’ve ever read.
My favorite aspect was how well motherhood was portrayed: the intimacy of the little years and the worry mixed with pride in the later ones (not that I know that yet, but considering how much I connected with the description of the little years I figure she's got it right as they get older too!).
The relationships were complex and while I thought the characters made an awful lot of bad decisions, I cared about them all through.
If I read this again someday, I'd be very interested in reading the newer translation since I hear that it improves upon some decisions made in the older translation, which is I what I read this time.
I probably would have never read those books if I wasn't currently living in Norway (or I would have given up... It's long!!) but i glad I stick with it as it is a really great way to understand the Norwegian culture. AND i score major points when I tell Norwegian people I read it ;-)
I loved the third book in this trilogy as much as the first two.
I loved these stories and can understand why Undset won the Nobel Prize for Literature.
I highly recommend these books if you are looking for a story of Medieval times written by a woman nearly a century ago that is still relatable today.
I had the feeling reading it that our stories are the same from generation to generation; we all fall short in our relationships to others and our relationship to God due to our human fallibilities, yet we are all worthy of love.
I hear the Penguin version may be better so at some future point I will try to pick that up.This work, by Nobel prize winner Sigrid Undset, needs to be read more than once to get the full measure of it.
I am not going to write more at this point because this is a group read and will await the completion by others before adding further thoughts.Basically a woman's life of love, hopes, faith, and self awareness as she seeks ever to understand the God that created her and what she is here to learn.
My fourth time reading this trilogy - it never loses its beauty to me.
Кончилось((
She's married to Erlend Nikulausson who does not want to take responsibility for his family.Kristins family is not liked by the locals in her place (Dale).
He loves Kristin Lavransdatter and hates Erlend Nikulausson.
Kristin has to try and reconcile the two men who are competing for her affection.At the same time Simon Darre's marriage to Kristin's sister who is jealous of her husbands love towards her sister.
Naakve, Bjongulf, Gaute, Lavran, Ivar, Skule, Munan and Erlend.
A strong mother figure goes a long way when it comes to raising children.
That is why Kristin's children grew up loving each other and supporting each other in their challenges.
The Cross, third in the series of Kristin Lavransdatter is also published in one volume.
Nobel Laureate, Sigrid Undset, described setting and characters well as the story unfolded of a full life with extended family, household and community.
As it became engaging I found myself pausing at times to look further online into the history, geography, mythology and culture of Norway even though each volume has a number of pages of notes that give background and understanding.
Kristin Lavransdatter could have been a person in any century and any time as could the other characters right to the end of her story.

WOW.Kristin Lavransdatter can best be described as an epic journey through all the phases of a 14th-century Norwegian woman's life, from headstrong young maiden to passionate wife, fiercely loyal mother, and finally, elderly (for the 1300s, anyway) woman.
In Kristin, I saw so many elements of my own past, present, and future and it was truly moving to consider the progression of my own life alongside her own.
This trilogy is truly brilliant, particularly considering it was written in the 1920s, and it will fulfill you on so many levels.
Kristin becomes more brittle against Erland and despises him for losing her sons' land inheritance a
W.O.W.The Kristen Lavransdatter trilogy is one of the best books I've ever read.
I can't believe that I hadn't heard of her until just a few months ago, when Kristen Lavransdatter was mentioned in a New York Times review for Alison Weir's Eleanor of Aquitaine novel, as an example of how powerful and complex a representative of the historical fiction genre can be (Weir's novel was not, by the way).
There aren't many other times I felt really disturbed by a book.
Kristen Lavransdatter was beautiful.
It was beautiful and harsh and exquisite and so realistic it hurt.
The final segment of the Kristin Lavransdatter series traces through the end of our heroine's life.
Perhaps as in real life, her final chapter was filled with more sorrows and sadnesses than joys.
As in the prior books, the realistic setting of life in medieval Norway is fascinating, as men really did ride with swords and everyone might set off into the hills in the dead of winter on skis.
This is a minor criticism--I loved the first two books nad if you read those you will want to follow Kristin through.
I read these books because they were my mother's favorite when she was around 13 in the early 50s.
They are very long (and slow) but filled with all sorts of cool tidbits about Norway in the early 1300s (the books well researched) and a lot of drama.
I was not a huge fan of Kristin, the main character, so I felt a bit less invested in the books overall.
That said, I thought the author did an amazing job of taking Kristin through her life and having her grow and evolve in an extremely organic and real way.
No huge plot twists, no OMG growth experiences for anyone - just real humanity.
