https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/582651.The_Black_Shrike
So I was reminded yet again, when I recently read the 95-cent Fawcett Gold Medal edition of Alistair MacLean's "The Black Shrike," which had been sitting on my shelf since around 1968, when I purchased it after seeing the filmization of MacLean's "Ice Station Zebra." Initially published in 1961 in Britain under the title "The Dark Crusader" (which sounds more like a Batman title to me!) and with the MacLean pen name of Ian Stuart, it was the author's seventh novel, out of an eventual 28, and, preceding MacLean's 1962 offering "The Satan Bug" and 1963 offering "Ice Station Zebra" as it did, demonstrates what a terrific roll the Scottish author was on at the time.
Very typical and predictable plot, but I still loved it, nonetheless. Chanced upon this book in an abandoned corner of the local bookstore along with other Alistair Maclean books. Took around four home, and found this one to be my favourite. 'You and me and the lights of London.' That note was VERY heart-breaking.
If you like James Bond style, Alistair MacLean books are quite similar, only show more human, less glamorous side of the events, at the edge of possible and beyond it. One of my favorite authors.For me, the deepest impression from the book made not the disappearing of best scientists, evil mind on remote tropical island who invented way to make them to do what he required from them, but the start and finish of the book. Take a look and you will see what I'm talking about.
(Interestingly, many critics attacked him for thinking things such as portable atomic mines--the technology just didn't exist back then--but these days, the concept of a dirty bomb, and other variations on the nuclear bomb are part and parcel of the newspaper headlines.) This is is the story of a John Bentall (it seems like MacLean was playing the expression to "bent") who has been sent on a mission to track down 8 missing rocket scientists, who have disappeared on their way to jobs in the South Pacific.
The more I think about this one, the more I like it.
In this way, 'The Dark Crusader' is typical McLean, and thoroughly enjoyable.
The 'hero', John Bentall, is a solid-fuel specialist, who is recruited by the British secret agency.
After a while, advertisement for a ninth position appears, and Bentall is volunteered by the agency for the position, under the obvious conclusion that one of the the scientists has befallen a tragedy.
He goes on to encounter an eccentric archaeologist and his Chinese henchmen, find out what is 'The Dark Crusader', and finally come to a realization that he has been double-crossed!
then quickly went south, not only in terms of its geographical locale (an atoll in the South Pacific) but in every conceivable way.This book made me wonder if Maclean ever met a real live woman in his life.
Of course, that's explained at the end -- but that's no excuse.The only good thing I'll say about this book is that Maclean had an engaging narrative style that's fun to read.
His obvious big influence is Raymond Chandler and he has a talent for simile that rivals that author, but that's about where the resemblance ends.There are better Maclean books but this one was a rotter.
The Black ShrikeA good novel in typical Alistair MacLean style. The plot has a few unpredictable twists which make the story more entertaining. Though not one of MacLean's best, the novel does keep one's interest and is not hard to get through ... at least for those who have memories of the Cold War!
Very exciting, though I could predict some of the plot twists. Some of the whole set up seemed a little forced, a secret lab in the South Pacific? Main character deep and interesting, though the falling in love part seemed rushed and artificial.5 stars because despite its minor flaws and strange set up generally nothing better out there today.
Bentall isn't married but is supplied with an agent named Marie Hopeman who is guaranteed to be very knowledgeable and skilled.MacLean wanted a vicious villain but he doesn't have that kind of imagination and he is of the generation that says you don't send women into danger or expect them to look after themselves so there are weaknesses in the situations involving Marie.
Bentall is bumbling as an agent, but he doesn't seem to have been trained, just pulled away from the rocket programme to investigate a situation in the Middle East.
The most interesting part was the Attack Doberman and the hero's subsequent descriptions of the excruciating agony of the wound on his arm--because that was the only part of this story that made any logical sense.
I had completely stopped breathing.""Tonight, the wise man went to bed and thought about things.
If I could get to my bed without being chewed to pieces by dogs or knifed by one of Hewell's Chinese, I would think about things.""I didn't see why an arm injury should give me a violent headache, but it did.
And while MacLean's first-person narrators all tend to sound alike, they are enjoyably tough, clever and self-deprecating in a Philip Marlowe way that isn't used much any more, but which is more fun to read than the over-seriousness of the Bond books, ("Hewell's two great hands closed over my bad arm and tore it off at the shoulder - later inspection showed it was still there, he must have stuck it back on again - and I swung round lashing out with all the power of my good right arm...").If you haven't read Alistair MacLean before, in most cases there's no reason to start now (except for some of the true classics, like HMS Ulysses and Ice Station Zebra).
It was written by Alistair MacLean and published under the pseudonym Ian Stuart.I stumbled onto The Black Shrike about the same time I discovered James Bond - the early, gritty, realistic Bond of the first few novels before Hollywood turned him into a cartoon.
I had no idea at the time that The Black Shrike was written by Alistair MacLean, who was already one of my favorites.John Bentall is a spy, during the early cold war, for an unnamed British service.
It is Bentall as a complete human being that elevates The Black Shrike above other novels in the genre.For a more complete review, see http://sydlogsdon.com/2016/10/06/231-...
Otherwise, the books are much the same: Spy on isolated mission with babe faces almost insurmountable odds: Hugely outnumbered and outgunned, he has to find a way to thwart the bad guys' evil scheme.There are a few plot holes that surprise with such a well-known thriller writer (view spoiler)[In a tunneling/explosives/mine-shaftish environment, surely there were more secure means to permanently and secretly dispose of a few bodies than to carefully entomb them.
And if Dr. Evil is so smart, why doesn't he have down even the basics of archaeology (which is, after all, his cover story) (hide spoiler)].
One of two thrillers MacLean wrote under the pseudonym Ian Stuart - for no other reason, apparently, than to prove it was the pace and excitement of the stories that counted rather than his name on the cover - ‘The Dark Crusader’ was published in 1961, the same year that ‘Fear is the Key’ appeared under his own name.
It also hints at the sloppy overwriting that would become the bane of MacLean’s fiction in later years.
But these are minor gripes: ‘TDC’ moves like hell from the first page to the last.
Every time I started reading it, the hero was doing or saying something tough, and the love interest was acting like an airhead instead of the strong undercover agent she was said to be in the first chapter.
I never did find out what 'The Black Shrike' was, and I just don't care.* UPDATE *For some reason, I picked this one up and gave it a second chance.
The Black Shrike is a missile, and our hero does eventually save the day.
After plenty of time to show us how brave and tough and manly he really is.
Another ho-hum one from Maclean.
I tend to disagree with the critics and find his later work much more polished.
The characters are just so cartoony and the dialogue is once again ridiculous.
If they did talk that way in real life back in 1961 I am glad that times have changed.
Maclean really has no clue about women and they seem to always be doe eyed innocents that slap the main character, put him down at every turn but lo and behold-they are madly in love with him.
It is a most infantile characterization that drives me nuts.
The Dark Crusader is another clever Alistair Maclean spy thriller which will have you sitting on the edge of your seat.
Bentall, the main character, is a larger than life secret agent who is sent out on a secret mission somewhere in the Pacific.
He is accompanied by a woman agent, at best described as an enigma and more a page filler.
The plot is the strongest featured with its twists and turns but marred by Maclean’s attempts to be too clever with metaphor and similarly, and an apparent need for better proofreading ― not a good look for the publisher.
Berdebu, puluhan tahun yang laluDengan deskripsi yang ekstensif dan alur yang tidak sekejap-sekejap, gado-gado antara James Bond kelas bawah dan sedikit whodunnit ini kuat dalam menghadirkan karakter tokoh-tokohnya. Kita jadi serasa mengenal mereka (tidak sekadar mengikuti kisahnya). Sebuah kekuatan penggambaran, yang bukan tidak mungkin membuat kita masih bisa mengingat beberapa detail pentingnya, bahkan setelah beberapa puluh tahun kemudian.Laki-laki kecil berdebu di ruangan kecil yang berdebu pula.Itu, misalnya.
I still love Alistair Maclean.
I remember hunting through piles of books in charity shops to find the paperbacks I was missing, and petitioning my mum for the change to buy them with.
He wrote brilliant, churningly, wrenching stories - ripping good yarns, almost always; but every now and then one of them would tear your heart out.
HMS Ulysses, at every step.
Puppet on a Chain for that one scene.
And The Dark Crusader for Johnny and Marie, Johnny and Marie and the lights of London.A+, would recommend.
One of my comfort reads, though now I need a strong cup of tea.
Vintage Alistair MacLean. A good adventure, true good guys, bad bad guys, some great twists. However, as with all of MacLean's books, some folks are not who they seem to be. This one breaks out of his standard mold even more so with the "big" surprise. If you are a MacLean fan, you will like this one. If you have not read him before, this is a good one to introduce you to him. The plot is fairly fast-paced, along with some credible (and some not-so credible) escapes. But he does a good job of tying them in.

I read this under trying circumstances and it distracted me as I hoped it would. I thought I'd try out a "cheap" thriller, see what it was like. It was an engaging read and I enjoyed it despite it's cliches, which I sure Alistair Maclean revelled in. So, John Bentall is a secret agent, accompanied by young agent Marie Hopeman. They journey to a foreign land and do battle with an evil genius. Great ending as far as I can remember.
Another classic spy drama from master thriller writer Alistair MacLean. As usual in his books, the lead character is fallible and in danger throughout, which makes all his plot twists even more exciting as you have no idea how the hero will respond and also how that will impact the storyline. A down to earth read, packed with suspense, intrigue and drama from another era in time when technology was not omnipresent – and happily this story hasn’t dated because of the lack of it.
This book followed the traditional plot-line of an Alistair Maclean novel. Spies, trying to ferret out the truth behind mysterious goings-on, get themselves into deeper and deeper trouble while uncovering and ultimately foiling the plot. It is somewhat annoying how all the novels seem to hinge on how inept the so-called master spy is in action, but still a quick and entertaining read if you accept it for what it is.
This book, written at the dawn of the Cold War in the beginning of the age of the hydrogen bomb, deals with the theft of nuclear technology. The book is not one of Alistair MacLean's best, but it's a good effort. His spy books, of which this is one, became overshadowed by Ian Fleming's efforts. MacLean has written a large number of novels and I recommend some of them, HMS Ulysses, for example.
2 stars for excessive Chinese stereotyping (even for the 1950s), many pages of run-on technobabble, a woman who doesn't do much, and a plot that doesn't make a lot of sense. They also wasted a good title by changing "The Black Shrike" to the bland "Dark Crusader". Running around solo on an island, sneaking around doing spy stuff is good classic Alistair MacLean though.
Alistair Maclean is, without doubt, one of my all time favourite Authors.The Dark Crusader is one of his early books (1961) still a way from hispeak, this none the less is still full of the kind of writing & plot lines thatset MacLean apart from his contemporaries. It might be a bit old hat forsome. But those who enjoy a thriller with a good twist won't be disappointed.
I read this book some 40 years ago and still remember it, the big bad secret agent, his girl, the race for the missile. Yeah if I read it again I would probably hate it, the characters couldn't possibly stand up to 2010 sensibilities, but for a 13 year old back in the early 70's it was a great escape.
Ein einfacher Agententhriller aus den frühen 1960er Jahren mit ein, zwei unerwarteten Wendungen und einem gelegentlich an sich zweifelnden Protagonisten. Es kann eine recht unterhaltsame Geschichte sein, wenn man sich von einigen Klischees und den klassichen Rollenbildern nicht stören lässt, bzw sie als Folge der Entstehungzeit liest.
Part Jules Verne adventure, part Ian Fleming double agent shadow capery stuff, this book held my attention in true Alistair MacLean style. The writing moved fast, and the characters were memorable. This, like many other MacLean novels would make a great screenplay. And for a men's adventure tale I found myself strangely emotional at the novel's end.
