https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6597430-the-midnight-bell
“The approach of love is something as stealthy and imperceptible as the catching of a cold.
A man of spirit never knows he has it until the last moment.”A genius character-driven story of obsessive love infatuation.
It’s amazing to me that The Midnight Bell was published when Patrick Hamilton was only 25 years old.
The first of a trilogy of novels later re-published in one volume as Twenty Thousand Streets Under the Sky, The Midnight Bell is not quite as solid as The Slaves of Solitude, but, for me, it’s close.
Whilst Hangover Square may be Patrick Hamilton’s best-known London novel I think that The Midnight Bell (1929) - the title comes from the pub which is the book’s focal point - is a key book in understanding his world view and the way he used his own life to inform his fiction.
I will consider this in greater detail when I have read the other two, however for now I'll conclude by stating that, as a stand alone book, The Midnight Bell is right up there with Patrick Hamilton's best work.
This was apparently strongly autobiographical, which could be guessed from a very early stage - Hamilton writes in the third person, but gets inside his hapless protagonist Bob's head from the start.
A 25-year-old waiter in a Euston pub called The Midnight Bell, he lives above the shop, is single (he has a close but clearly platonic friendship with his colleague Ella), enjoys his job as much as he can do (he has ambitions to write, his room littered with copies of John O'London's Weekly) and has squirrelled away £80 in the bank - which I was startled to discover would be worth over four grand today.
'The Midnight Bell', which appeared in 1929 and is the first of a trilogy of novels that was collected and published in the mid-1930s under the title 'Twenty Thousand Streets Under The Sky', is every bit as good as 'Hangover Square'.
It is also a portrait of the variety of customers who frequent 'The Midnight Bell' and of the staff who work there.
The reader subconsciously feels as much sympathy for the manipulative Jenny in her desperate circumstances as for the innocent, hapless, naive Bob. Hamilton writes in a very readable style.
'The Midnight Bell' is an excellent novel.
Like seemingly all humans, I’m pre-disposed to enjoy lists of any sort; as a reader and writer, a list about books is nirvana-esque in nature.
Miller even warns people that this book shouldn’t be conceived as a list of books people should try and attempt, match or complete; rather, it just a cross section of books he felt like he had to read.
Before I knew it, I was adding to my collection – every book that he wrote about and enjoyed, I wanted to experience the same feeling as him, so infectious was his delivery.Read the rest at: https://thatdifficultfirstnovel.wordp...
A terrific insight into 1930s London life through the eyes of a barman, who is an autobiographical projection of the novel's author, Hamilton. Well-controlled narrative with characters who are brightly and realistically painted. There are many fine passages in the novel and it is surprising that the trilogy of which this is the first part, Twenty Thousand Streets Under the Sky, is not better known...
A pub in the Euston Road, a barman with savings and a working girl who happily takes him for a ride. The descriptions of the drinkers who frequent the bar are still familiar today. The London that Hamilton describes is still there too. It's never going to end well this tale of mis placed love and the air of gaiety that descends on Soho and the West End is brittle and cheap and only serves to reinforce the superficial nature of what he thinks of as love and she sees as a meal ticket.
The waiter gives her the sum and she promises to come back the following night to repay the debt.
Well, he does find her on the street and she is apologetic and promises to return to repay the money very soon.
The book continues in this vein as he is continually put off and stood up, promising after each slight to never see her again but one more time to "put things right".
The book ends in a crescendo, she promising to go away for a week with him, he draining his savings account to pay for the week and being stood up one last time.
1) Hamilton has a emotionally juvenile understanding of women 2) the dialogue becomes repetitive but is saved by some stunning observations and sweet sentance construction.Bob works in the Midnight Bell and has saved £80.
There is a sticky middle part of the book where the dialogue is repetitive and too much "i love you" reciprocated between the two.
Hamilton portrays most women as money grabbing harlots.Some exceptional sections - such as the opening of the pub as theatre, the characters within it and a very good ending where Bob gets blind drunk, wakes in the doss house and then you are not sure if he commits suicide as he plans to "return to the sea".I think the closing line about the working classes where hamilton says "You can never make them, under any provocation, say die".
I was interested enough to get to the end of this but I was unceasingly annoyed by the author's capitalisation of words that wouldn't normally require it, always in speech.Examples:1.
The Governor had got it into his head that the Prince of Wales would Never Come to the Throne, but that the Duke of York would be Elected instead.There is no consistent clear reason for the capitalisation, though much of the time it seems to be done for the purpose of showing words emphasised by either the speaker or (in his own mind) the hearer.
I liked this book, quite a lot in fact but the protagonist really did infuriate me immensely.
Hamilton manages to capture something quite unique in the pages of this book: real life, by that I mean actually what life is like, the torment, the indecision, the difficulty, the highs and the lows.
Hamilton is descriptive but that's part of the sheer brilliance of it, it does take a long time for anything much to happen but that's exactly like life.
If you like Hollywood movie style books where the plot races along and there is next to no character development this book is most definitely not for you.
Incredibly well observed writing. At times it made me feel claustrophobic as the nuances of every interaction are detailed in real-time. Over the course of the trilogy I developed a real fondness for 2 of the 3 key characters, and a real sense of what it took to survive London in that era.
A gripping and thoroughly entertaining jaunt through London in the early 1900s... The writer draws you into a beautiful and achingly familiar narrative to all men... A love story for boys! First of a trilogy... Bring on the rest!
The cringing pain of watching a friend idiotically fall in love with someone uninterested and particularly cruel, combined with slowly watching your finances drip away as you slip into poverty. Eli Roth has nothing on this torture porn.
3.4
Tales from the dark streets of Fitzrovia and Soho in the '30's. Beautifully atmospheric... The Midnight Bell is a fabulous book.
I decided to read this because it struck me as the perfect book to read in October, full of dark nights spent huddled in the corner of foetid pubs drinking dark beers.
He spent a lot of time in them and he has a completely accurate understanding of pub dynamics.
Hamilton also understands how working in a pub is a little like a performance and stepping behind the bar is similar to stepping on stage.Hamilton also can describe the personal stages of drunkenness.
I look forward to reading the next book int he trilogy to find out exactly what she is thinking all this time, and what has shaped her attitudes to men and Bob in particular.
A story like this can be found nowadays, but I think it would lack of the naivety this one has, society was not as cynic on that time or at least not as much as it is today (although Jenny's character anticipates that).I expected this to be more raw, but it can't, is the way the author tells the story that makes it "reader friendly", Hamilton is often refered as Dickensian, I would say he can be as colourful and naive sometimes but he is certainly not as condescendant.
He knows he drinks too much, but that’s ok because he’s got a system in place.Then he meets Jenny, a chaotic and alluring prostitute, who ignores and avoids him, who is neither bright nor dim, and who never really puts up too much of a fight when he starts spending all his money on her.
It turns out that Bob’s cache of money squirreled away over the course of six months or more of meticulous saving is not safe from Jenny.
He tells her he loves, he plans on meeting her for a weekend away, and he even tries to buy out her time so she doesn’t spend it with other men.
The fact that The Midnight Bell is semi-autobiographical helps give credence to Bob the barman’s otherwise puzzling infatuation with the insouciant Jenny.
It’s not a great explanation to say that “dreams were his life...[and] Bob believed that one day his dreams would come true”, but I suppose Patrick Hamilton may have felt the same, in real life, about his Lily.
Jenny looks very pretty and as such is an attractive companion for a young man with ambitions.
I found Bob’s literary ambitions, which we are asked to believe extended to writing and submitting short stories, rather hard to swallow.
Reading this book straight off the author’s Hangover Square, I must say there was something of an echo effect going on with our male protagonist who ought to know better far gone in love over another unworthy female antagonist interest again.
Well, on the positive side the two books are different.
Midnight Bell is far less tragic.
It also has some great dialogue between characters and insight into our hero, Bob the waiter.
Bob is a boob.
I enjoyed the book and I’m glad it was short.
I couldn’t have taken much more of Bob.

Apparently based on his own life and experience, Hamiton's story nevertheless quickly becomes all too predictable. Just the same, I very much appreciated his ability to powerfully evoke what was his contemporary London of the late 1920s. Much of the book takes place in a pub in central London and on the streets of Soho. Not only are the sights and sounds of these scenes vividly evoked, but I felt I could detect the scent of the beer.
Full of pathos and some fantastic writing about alcohol and getting blotto. Reminded me of John Steinbeck's Cannery Row and Tortilla Flat but transported to London.
I love Patrick Hamilton and this is a good example of his talent. Set in the 30s in fitzrovia we watch a man determined to hold onto his savings but destined to lose them all to a woman he is besotted with. His demise is inevitable from the outset of the book but the beauty of this book is watching it unfold. My favourite read of 2017.
Moving and finely observed. This is the first book of a trilogy entitled 'Twenty Thousand Streets under the Sky.' I liked it so much I am moving directly into the 2nd book, 'The Siege of Pleasure.'
http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/2011/...
Excellent book, great ending paragraph.
