https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15790842-life-after-life
Life after Life tells the story of Ursula’s lives, as with each new life she makes small changes that send her on a completely different path.I feel like I’m the only person on the planet that thought this book was overhyped and over rated.
This could have worked; and it sounds like it worked for many people but I sadly wasn’t one of them.I wonder if Kate Atkinson was trying something different and experimental where she could play with the character’s death and life, explore the concept of life’s choices and their consequences but because there were no real penalty to Ursula’s life I wonder if it really worked?
I wanted to like this book.
But alas, I sensed almost at the very start that it wasn't going to be a happy relationship - a point confirmed by mid-way through the book.The length, the repetitive scenes, the incredible number of times Ursula dies and is reborn, are all tedious and terrible torment to get through.
2/3rds in, I found myself offended for having my time wasted.
Surely Atkinson could show the courtesy of not subjecting her readers to so many repetitive scenarios.
But the plot lost my interest fairly early on and by the end, I positively wanted to hurl it at a wall (I didn't.
she will die from falling off a roof, from drowning, from gas-inhalation, but she will be reborn again to live a collage of different lives, but always as ursula, and always surrounded by the same family.
In the face of the uniforms, Ursula had shrugged a cartoon helplessness and murmured rather shamefacedly, "She's English." She thought that Sylvie didn't understand what it was like living in Germany but in retrospect she thought that perhaps Sylvie had understood very well.i love that passage, on at least three different levels.
We can never get it right, but we must try."i loved that about this book.
What with his seatbelt not being properly secured and the 30 ton lorry, darkness fell rapidly.DECEMBER 2013Paul Bryant had really only just started driving back home, was still trying with his left hand to jam the seat belt buckle into its lock, and – multitasking like mad - he was thinking about how to review Life After Life, but wasn’t so caught up in the various amusing ways it could be done that he didn’t notice the car poking far too far out of the side street.
The choppy format of the early chapters make it difficult to get attached to Ursula, but as she lives longer, it becomes more and more apparent that she lives a sad, depressing life.
As they move in and out of her life, these siblings play important roles in the paths she follows, yet they remain rather one-dimensional, as though Atkinson couldn't be bothered to spend the time on them.The book was also a bit too meandering in its plot.

But I would imagine if any of us were actually tasked to unravel all the "right" and "wrong" choices from our life and to relive the bad with the good, we'd go screaming into the night like raving banshees.For what is a perfect life?
Ursula is a normal British girl except she's pretty certain she's lived her life before, maybe many, many times.
Life is a farce after all; if you can't find the humor in it you've been doing it wrong or have missed the point entirely.
Atkinson did this amazingly well, tho there were moments of, "oh not this again." The real blooper for me was Ursula (view spoiler)[ hanging out with Eva Braun and Hitler at the Berchtesgaden.
And this wonderful fiction writer didn't make me believe that it happened within the pages of her book.
I wonder if Atkinson struggled with this part and whether she believed it herself.
(hide spoiler)]Also, I didn't love the way the book ended.
I just closed the book and I'm wondering, "what just happened?" Like Ursula, I'd like to go back up and try that again.
(view spoiler)[Since Hitler is always the popular choice in the game of, “If you could go back in time & kill someone, who would you?” (but while I’m not intending to be flippant, I’m sure that an estimated 1 to 3 million victims of the Khmer Rouge would appreciate it if someone would set their sights on Pol Pot instead), it’s pretty clear where this is headed once Ursula figures out that she’s possibly been given chance after chance in order to try to come back & make things right for Europe.
I'm embarrassed to say I didn't really understand this book.
I'm a huge Kate Atkinson fan and I think she's one of the most creative writers I've ever read.
And I loved the idea of this book: Ursula is born, dies, and is born again, living different -sometimes very different - versions of her life over and over again.
Sometime Ursula seems to remember the past versions of her life, sometimes she seems not to.
I'm going to have to go read some of the other reviews and see if they can shed any light on it for me!
“What if we had a chance to do it again and again, until we finally did get it right? Wouldn't that be wonderful?” Life After Life is a novel I probably wouldn't have chosen for myself. And how sad it is to think that I might have passed this novel over and never known these characters and relationships. It often seems like I am the only person in the world who hasn't watched Downton Abbey (definitely the only Brit who hasn't) but the favourable comparisons I keep seeing between the show and th
I adore it when authors do this - and so few do - when they make sure every single character becomes a human being with a life and personality beyond pushing the plot in a certain direction.The story centres around Ursula Todd who is born one snowy night in 1910 and dies that night from strangling on her own umbilical cord.
It is too charming and well-written to be boring, and I could hardly put it down once I became absorbed in the characters' stories (which didn't take long at all).This novel seems to gather layers as it goes.
A better analogy might be how we navigate our way through a maze, proceeding until we reach a dead end and backtracking to the point where we can follow a different path.
Before I get too carried away with the device, which I suspect had to do with a huge inventory of ready-to-use death scenes Atkinson wanted to employ ;-) , I should mention what I consider to be even better selling points: the story, the characters and the setting.
Each snippet of Ursula’s life (or, more appropriately, lives) had plenty going on including creative avoidance of paths we knew from before wouldn’t work.
She shares a closeness with one or two of her siblings, but overall she has a pretty meek personality and remains largely invisible most of her life—with the caveat that “most of her life” in Ursula’s case actually means “most of her lives” because this bitch keeps on dropping dead and coming back again.Life After Life is a book that focuses on Ursula’s slow build-up, over the course of multiple lives (because it takes her hundreds of tries to get it right), to assassinating Adolf Hitler.
The hundreds of lives it takes for her to get to that point occur on pages two through five hundred twenty-nine.
What I expected to be Borgesian, absolutely meta, actually turned out a tad gimmicky and, no joke, choose-your-own-adventure-like. But no problem. It has a huge heart & employs a super witty use of parentheticals, of asides. It is optimistic in the face of oblivion. W.W.II. And, even though I know I insult discerning readers when I say that this is like Ian McEwan's Atonement, Redux; but... this novel is "Atonement Redux."
The process of becoming whole, psychically, is to integrate the unconscious (Shadow) and conscious selves, through deep meditation, dreams, or long journeys that build awareness.If this seems too much of an academic introduction to the brilliantly epochal novel by Kate Atkinson, it is also a reference to the finely calibrated structure and themes of life...after life.
It doesn't seem segmented or choppy; rather, it all integrates, like Jung's concept.Ursula's darkness penetrates to a metaphysical undertaking, and the reader is side by side with her odyssey.
Like Ursula, I am inclined to return, time and again, and let the pages encircle me into the "black bat of darkness" and the snow blazing white of day."Time isn't circular.
Wouldn't that be wonderful?” Would it?I believe everyone would love a chance to go back and change things in their past.
Correct mistakes in order to change their life or their loved ones lives for the better.
Ursula is born on a snowy night in February 1910; the doctor makes it in time to save the little girl from nearly straggling on her own umbilical cord.
Kate Atkinson wrote about life in WWII England and in WWII Germany in such a human way that I don’t believe I ever really felt, or understood, what it was truly like until I read this book.
“Don’t you wonder sometimes,” Ursula said. “If just one small thing had been changed, in the past, I mean. If Hitler had died at birth, or if someone had kidnapped him as a baby and brought him up in---I don’t know, say, a Quaker household—surely things would be different.” Kate Atkinson, author of eight previous novels, including four Jackson Brodie crime books, has come up with a nifty notion for a story. Kill off your heroine, early and often, while offering a look at the history of England
Kate Atkinson, author of eight previous novels, including four Jackson Brodie crime books, has come up with a nifty notion for a story.
So, England, 20th century, perils of Pauline, well in this case Ursula, little bear, of Fox Corner, the manse of a well-to-do sort, not Downton rich, but, you know, comfortable.
Ursula is faced with some immediate challenges, like evading a rapist, a girl-killer, those annoying Nazi bombs during the blitz, not falling out windows, you know, stuff.
Not only figuring out what the right thing is to do and then deciding, for her life, but thinking about how events affect other people, the nation, maybe the world.
It's kind of like Groundhog Day, except that she starts over at birth each time, and each life ends with her death.
She has frequent deja vu experiences and some vague memories and forebodings about events from her prior lives, but like the palimpsest, they've mostly been erased and only hazy traces remain.
(I suspect that having her die early and often made the story easier to write.) Part of it is that she lived through both world wars in Great Britain, so the post-WWI Spanish flu epidemic and the London Blitz account for a fair number of her deaths, but really she does seem to have an undue amount of extremely bad luck.
(?)I struggled to find a word which would describe my reaction to Life After Life - Kate Atkinson's latest novel, released to considerable hype - and I came up with this.
Life After Life focuses on exploring different outcomes of certain situations - but this makes it feel repetitive and dull after a while: once Ursula dies for the umpteenth time we know for sure that a different version of the events leading to her death would kick.
And os it was for me with Life After Life - after a while I had to push myself to read on, and even though it started up for a while it soon died again, forcing me to redouble my efforts.
“No point in thinking, you just have to get on with life. We only have one after all, we should try and do our best. We can never get it right, but we must try.”  While I can understand the mixed reaction, and wouldn't call it a book for everyone, Life After Life is a beautifully written, acutely English, slow-burner of a novel, a beautiful piece of family drama and comedy, and a fantastic work of historical fiction. It's wrapped in a high-concept conceit of our protagonist Ursula's continual b
While I can understand the mixed reaction, and wouldn't call it a book for everyone, Life After Life is a beautifully written, acutely English, slow-burner of a novel, a beautiful piece of family drama and comedy, and a fantastic work of historical fiction.
It's wrapped in a high-concept conceit of our protagonist Ursula's continual birth and rebirth into her not quite the same life, but said conceit is executed softly, subtly, played for laughs, used to display the horrors of war and the simple beauties of life.
While not a perfect novel, I was completely swept away by Life After Life and this is something I'll re-read in the future.
Many people have compared this book to the movie Groundhog Day where the main character lives the same day over and over.
In Life After Life, the main character is born, lives a varying length of time, dies, and is born again.
The difference between Groundhog Day and this book is that in the movie the main character learns something from living again and again.
Until suddenly in one life, after exhibiting virtually no awareness that she is being born over and over, the woman apparently realizes she is meant to take out the big bad, and suddenly decides to do so.
In many ways, this novel is Kate Atkinson's exploration of that idea, beginning in the first moments of Ursula Beresford Todd's life.
Key moments in Ursula's life play themselves out over and over.
But in the version where she hits the lout and gets away, she lives her life on her own terms, able to define her relationships with men, rather than being defined by them.
The time and setting of this novel, 1910 through WWII, England and Germany, are supposed to play a pivotal role and although they do in the end, I was far more interested in the fleeting small changes from version to version of Ursula's life.
"'From a more scientific point of view,’ he said, ‘perhaps the part of your brain responsible for memory has a little flaw, a neurological problem that leads you to think that you are repeating experiences. As if something had got stuck.’ She wasn’t really dying and being reborn, he said, she just thought she was. Ursula couldn’t see what the difference was. Was she stuck? And if so, where?"" "Sylvie sighed. ‘You do have a very vivid imagination, Ursula.’" Ursula may have a vivid imagination, b
"'From a more scientific point of view,’ he said, ‘perhaps the part of your brain responsible for memory has a little flaw, a neurological problem that leads you to think that you are repeating experiences.
At times it is almost as though Ursula has stepped through the mirror to see life from another point of view, for example (view spoiler)[ she experiences WWII whilst living in England, and then she lives through the war again but this time in Germany.
(hide spoiler)] It is the same Ursula, but also many different Ursulas.
A lovely and unusual book about reincarnation, free will and destiny.Ursula Todd was born on a snowy day in February with the umbilical cord wrapped around her neck.
That was the first time she died...I loved how Kate Atkinson built this story through seemingly insignificant details.
I feel like Atkinson wrote a tale that reads like real life- it has the meanings that we assign it.
Other than that, the narration was excellent.This story has me wondering about life, reincarnation and all of it.
What's the bigger picture?Anyway, this book will make you wonder, question and dream about existence.
I was fearful that such a question as the premise of a novel--as the opening scene shows our main character, Ursula Todd, shooting Hitler--would be gimmicky.
Then she's born again, makes it a few years, and dies.
And so on and so forth, the novel proceeds.We follow Ursula as she grows up in rural England during the first and second world wars.
And really I think in a way, this novel is a love letter to England's resilience.
I think what's most successful about this story is also what makes it so frustrating.
I love the perspective this book gave me on the meanings of mortality and clues about how to make sense of all the choices life is made of.
The very first scene in the book tells us that one fate involves Ursula trying to change history by killing an early Hitler in Bavaria in 1930.
I got some of the same extra dose of identification with the “contemps” in Connie Willis’ coverage of the Blitz in her “Blackout” and “All Clear” books about time travelling historians and a similar distancing sense over the reality of historians’ fate.
The Führer was different, he was consciously making history for the future.” Sometimes there are exceptional people, but even they cannot escape that possibility that “one thing” could change everything.
Therein lie our power, and the power of the fiction writer.The title, Life After Life, points to those lives impacted by another’s life, or a close escape from death, or lives that continue after another has died, or simply the alternate histories we all might have if “one thing had been different.” When the book and the stories were drawing to a close, I admit I didn’t want to get to the end.
Without meaning to - it was a question - she said to dr Kellet, 'Where is the photograph of Guy?' and Dr Kellet said, 'who is Guy?'It seemed even the instability of time was not to be relied upon.What wondrous life Ursula lead!It was another samovar in a Russian Tea Room many years later, that would bring the future in a veil of fog to her.
palimpsest.' 'And memories are sometimes in the future.'Ursula Beresford Todd was a witness ...COMMENTI was a bit busy while reading the book.
‘That sounds vexing.’‘And memories are sometimes in the future.’A preternaturally wise ten-year-old Ursula Todd offers us this succinct thematic summation of Life After Life near the book’s end, after she has lived and died many times.
It is a story of a family—a familiar motif in Atkinson’s literary worlds—with a set of messy, vexing, endearing characters whose personalities remain constant throughout the crazy quilt of this narrative, even if their outcomes change, depending upon the version of life they are living.
Ursula shifts with each life, responding to a sense that if she just did this, something fundamental will change.
Ursula lived many lives. The first time, she died as she was being born, strangled by the cord around her neck. The snowstorm prevented the doctor from arriving in time.  “No breath. All the world come down to this. One breath. Little lungs, like dragonfly wings failing to inflate in the foreign atmosphere. No wind in the strangled pipe. The buzzing of a thousand bees in the tiny curled pearl of an ear. Panic. The drowning girl, the falling bird.” In the next chapter, Ursula is born again, but t
The first time, she died as she was being born, strangled by the cord around her neck.
In the next chapter, Ursula is born again, but the doctor managed to arrive before the storm closed the roads.
Some choices at the time and up close seem inconsequential and minor, but each choice takes one along one path and not the other.
She had taken the wrong path, opened the wrong door, and was unable to find her way back.” The story is like the tides of the sea.
