https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/861989.Mystery_at_the_Ski_Jump
This one sticks out in my mind the most because over the course of her ski-related escapades, Nancy taught me something that I still consider really important: how to signal an SOS with a flashlight after you've managed to escape the abandoned cabin in the middle of the woods where The Bad Guys tied you up and left you for dead.
The books are full of her doing awesome stuff like that, by the way.
Tried to read a Nancy Drew book a few years back and it was all "you can't go home again," but when I was indexing them last week I noticed I had an original and a rewritten volume of The Mystery at the Ski Jump, and I thought it'd be fun to compare the two.
*sigh* Although actually I got more irritated with Nancy's perfection as a kid than I do now (I always preferred Trixie Belden).One thing that interested me is that both versions introduce Bess with the line, "Bess loved sweets and worried little about her weight," and, although she's the one who cries over Nancy's survival once, I didn't notice that Bess was particularly hysterical.
Hypers, I'm definitely George.This started mostly as nostalgia-reading, but now I'm super interested in the Grosset & Dunlap edits and the feminist politics (and failures) of Nancy Drew.keywords: mink furs, stolen identity, Aunt Eloise, skiing, Canada, telegrams, near-death Nancy, Mizti Channing
Unique Nancy Drew story, as Nancy chases after a thief and a con artist masquerading as Nancy Drew!
The ski jump mystery is fun!
It's about the shoplifting and blackmarket selling of mink pelts.
I mean honestly, mink is not a desirable commodity anymore.
Wearing animal fur as a luxury is an unethical practice.
And it still is common practice these days for bogus companies to target women into investing and then leaving them in the lurch.
I'm looking at you, McLeggings and SmellyScents!Ahem, but anyway, speaking of women, I love this book because I bought a used copy, and the previous owner really heightened my reading experience.
The villains are people who sell fraudulent stock, making this not quite the most exciting Nancy Drew mystery.
So this was another from the Nancy Drew mystery series.
I was thoroughly bored and craved for some light reading.
This book came as a saviour.
This was possibly a re-read for me because I remember reading this as a child, however the plot was completely forgotten.So coming to the review , this book is undoubtedly written very nicely and was really an enjoyable read.
There was not much of a mystery but lots of events happening and lots of sleuthing.
I really enjoy these simplistic plots of nancy drew rather than supernatural ones or overtly technical ones.
I saw the library added a ton of Nancy Drew e-books, and with the Winter Olympics happening, what better flashback to childhood than the Mystery of the Ski Jump?
Second, it's so interesting to read a book like this written in the...past.
I would be so interested to talk to a current pre-teen reading these older versions of Nancy Drew.
For instance, early in the book, Nancy reminisces about winning a random slalom ski race.
But later on, she hangs out with a ski instructor and demurs that she's not that great at skiing, and she does end up falling on a mogul.
The captcha on this book is full of weird errors, more than most of the other books.
And Nancy is a decent ice skater but not really impressive on skis, even though she won a novice slaloming competition a year before the book takes place.A phony stock scheme, like book 23 and 25.
Also Nancy's identity is stolen like in book 4.
And of course, she's kidnapped and bound and gagged again when the people she's with turn their backs for two minutes.She gets stunned falling on a ski slope but it's not clear if she actually loses consciousness, and she lapses into hypothermic semi-consciousness near the end.
I read this for some research and like most Nancy Drew books, I liked it. Written in 1952 (and I did have the 1952 edition), I found it interesting that this had to do with minks and furs. I grew up seeing those little animals biting each other draped around women's necks with their fake beady eyes. While selling fur in the fifties and sixties was accepted as normal, I wonder how today's generation accepts this?
I just love Nancy's world, where the good guys all look honest, the bad guys have beady-eyes and pencil-thin mustaches, criminals put their return addresses on their mailings, and yet it still takes an 18-year-old amateur detective to round up a theft ring. Gotta love it!
A con artist is using the name Nancy Drew. Nancy must solve this mystery to clear her own name. A fun and entertaining story.
I would say out of all the Nancy Drew books this one is the most outdated.
And yes, i know this book was originally written in 1952 when wearing fur was not as scandals but it was rewritten in 1968, several years after the anti-fur movement had gained traction.The first half of this book is quite good and entertaining but it goes downhill after Nancy returns from Canada.
The writing style and the snowy settings really added the enjoyment to reading this book and I enjoyed Nancy's search for the swindlers, the traveling around, and her investigating, though as usual with most of these original ND books, plenty of coincidences helped Nancy solve the mystery.
The biggest coincidence has to be wherever Nancy goes, the swindlers just happen to be right near her!
There is no mystery at a ski jump and the title really should be "The Secret at The Ski Jump"(which is shown on the cover with the man putting a bag into the snowman) or "The Search for The Elusive Swindlers".
Again, I have read a Nancy Drew book, and loved it.
In this book, someone is impersonating Nancy, and stole fur and sold it to Hannah, (her housekeeper as the book says, but Nancy calls her a mom-ly figure multiple times throughout the series).
The person who sold it is using Nancy's name, and the real Nancy Drew has to find out who this really is.
I have nothing that I dislike about this book, however there really wasn't much about a ski jump.
I would recommend this book to anyone who loves a thriller mystery.
3.5 Good book but it was all about furs and for a vegan it's not the easiest thing to read about. It was a decent mystery for the age group it's meant for and even entertaining for adults. I would have villanized a few of the characters though.
This was my very first Nancy Drew and I got hooked after reading it.
This book had me at the edge of my seat.
OT- Ned jealous, fur trappers, gift of mink, earrings, and pin. Montreal, Adirondacks, and New York. not particularly exciting and hard to stomach the fur trade.
"Mystery at the Ski Jump" was a very satisfying read on a snowy weekend. Confusing mystery, many victims, and several suspects, new friends, and adventurous winter sports. Highly recommended!
I just read this as a quick, cozy reminder of an old friend.
Another good quick read. It's amazing how much Nancy Drew can do. She can figure skate well enough to be in a professional show, she can ski jump, snowshoe for miles, ha ha. Great imagination.
Well Nancy had quiet an adventure in this book. I still do not know how she manages to learn something new while she is sleuthing. And i really liked the book.
The Mystery at the Ski Jump  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 29th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Nancy Drew's sleuthing finds her looking for an unscrupulous door-to-door fur saleswoman with counterparts whose trails take Nancy and her friends from New York to Canada. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less than a mile from our house. Like most young girls
Like most young girls of a certain age (ahem), my love for mysteries started with Nancy Drew—there simply was no mystery too baffling that she couldn’t solve.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
My LAST Nancy Drew book--I have now read all of the original ones, which is something I've wanted to do since I was a kid.
how does Nancy have the time/$$ to go around solving all of these mysteries?
In every book, she is taking some sort of lessons that happen to assist her in solving the mystery, usually when she is posing as an expert in the given field (for example, in this book, she posed as a professional figure skater; in another one, she posed as a horseback-riding acrobat in a circus).
3. All of the books are basically the same.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
I was a HUGE Nancy Drew fan as a kid and thus this is not the first time I've read this one, but as I was looking for a "book from a beloved childhood series" for my reading bingo and was feeling inspired by the Winter Olympics in Sochi, I chose this one.
I remembered it involved mink pelts and skiing, but not much beyond that.
It's fun to read these again as an adult--coincidences and things I thought nothing of when younger are kind of hilarious now, as are some culture-of-a-different-era things, such as the fact that when Ned's along Nancy lets him drive her car.
This book is simply amazing ( Just like all other Carolyn Keene books!
). Any one who is a fan of mysteries would love this book and all other Carolyn Keene novels.
In this book, Nancy's father asks of her help to solve a mystery involving his legal work.
Nancy, who is also nose deep in a mystery herself, flies to Montreal to help crack her father's case.
This is book number 29 in the Nancy Drew series and I would recommend this book to anyone with high expectations.
It didn't only meet MY expectations, it surpassed them.
One again, well done Carolyn Keene.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew.
It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain.
Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy.
No brains.
To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation.
Carolyn Keene wrote just for me!
That is how I felt.
When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ...
I also loved the Hardy Boys.
No wonder I loved these series.Great for girls aged 8 and up.
I didn't love that the mystery revolved around the fur trade, but overall this was a good Nancy Drew book. I like that all of Nancy's friends were involved in solving the mystery, and I also liked that they travelled around a lot during the book. I tend to find these books more entertaining when Bess, George, and the boys are involved and/or when the whole story doesn't happen in River Heights.
