https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9361589-the-night-circus
The book is left open-ended so that the publishers can milk this monstrosity all over again if it sells well.Lie Number Five: "Despite themselves, however, Celia and Marco tumble headfirst into love—a deep, magical love that makes the lights flicker and the room grow warm whenever they so much as brush hands."What Actually Happens: After many, many years of not knowing who the other magician is, Marco reveals himself to Celia.
Five Things About THE NIGHT CIRCUS.Ordinarily when I do my recommendations, I do a “five reasons to read _____,” but I think opinions will be so divided on THE NIGHT CIRCUS that I think “things about” will be more useful.1.
Well, back page copy is always a weird thing anyway, as it’s not written by the author.
It’s told in third person omniscient, which means it sounds like God is narrating the thing, if God decided he really loved black and white tents and fancy umbrellas.
It is a novel about a thing, with love in it, and it spans over a decade.
The Night Circus will be a 5-star book for a certain reader.
This reader likes a lot of descriptions, doesn't mind a very slow story and has a soft spot for circuses.
The book was good 80% description of various circus tents, performances, dinners and pretty, visual acts of magic.
making up pretty things to impress each other (yes, you read that right, no actual combating of any sorts in this "fierce competition") and a lukewarm romance that came out of the magicians' fascination with each other's creations from a distance, rather than interacting in any meaningful way.My resulting disappointment with the novel had also a lot to do with the writing style - Morgenstern chose to write in present tense, 3rd person.
The prose sparkles, and the story itself is a feat of magical acrobatics. It's a hard book to summarize, but basically two ancient magicians set their two best pupils against one another in a magical contest. Its venue? A mysterious circus that only appears at night. The only problem: the contestants don't really know the rules, or how victory is determined. And when the contestants start falling in love which each other, things get complicated.
I have quite honestly never had the pleasure of reading a more beautiful book. I want to go back to the beginning and read it all over again. I just....I have no words.
It was like sharing a four hundred pages moment that meant nothing but the closing of space, and left nothing but a memory you're not even sure wasn't a dream.
“You think, as you walk away from Le Cirque des Rêves and into the creeping dawn, that you felt more awake within the confines of the circus.
(x)I've experienced 446 different shades of emotions reading this book but I can say without a shade of doubt that The Night Circus has just become one of my favorite books of all time.
For the longest time during the book, over two hundred and fifty pages, I thought that I disliked this book for some very specific reasons, but this is where the confusing part comes in so hang with me for a second: once you get to the end, you realize that you only  thought  you hated those parts, and it was really all part of Morgenstern's brilliant plan!I know a few of you are probably giving me this look right now:Don't worry, though, I'll explain!
Like I said, the first time you read through it, this can be very confusing and overwhelming, but once you read it through again, knowing the ending (and you can bet that I re-read this amazing book the second I was done with it) you truly understand these characters and why Morgenstern did it.
I'm reluctant to do that kind of review here and now because the experience of reading The Night Circus was like smelling a magnolia blossom...perfect, sweet, rich, satisfying a need I didn't know I had until it was met...but to examine it, to handle it, even gently, risks that somehow the magical smooth gorgeously textured vessel of chastely erotic pleasure that this book is will let it begin, inexorably and inevitably, to brown and curl and die, and become...just a wonderful book.I'm not ready for real life yet.
This is a book about dueling magicians and bewitching enchantments, set in the Victorian age circus, so you can probably imagine what you're going to read, but she decorates her world remarkably well, creating magical attractions that are lightly sketched, allowing them to grow in your imagination (I want to play in the vertical cloud maze, and climb to the top and jump into a sea of wispy fluff).But good lord, just re-read that paragraph.
I've read a few circus books, and I should probably get it into my head that they are almost never for me, because too much of this stuff can get to be a bit much.
“Deep emotion but you are only on the shore of it, still near the surface, while it is waiting to pull you under.”Just like Herr Thiessen I shall forever be a “Rêveur”, a Dreamer who looks at “The Night Circus” with wide eyes, getting lost in the intoxicating smell of the impossible and wonderful.
I will wear my red scarf and explore the mysteries of this incredible and lovely place and as I walk down those countless tents and see all the different signs, I’ll pray that it will never lose its charm.
Each night we try to explore another one, sometimes we end up returning to those we already know.
it becomes a call-and-response between two magicians who are initially unaware of the other's identity or abilities as they create incomparable attractions in the circus' confines, and struggle to maintain them as time passes and the strain of keeping all their magical balls in the air begins to take its toll.eventually competition gives way to mutual admiration and then...
i agree with some of the points others made, but ultimately, i found this to be a wholly satisfying book whose reading experience mirrored the themes of magic and dreams, and i was glad that there was still some secrecy at the end of it all.i mean, you know what happens when a magician reveals their secrets, right??no one wants that.come to my blog!
Admittedly, this is plain folly because a circus this beautiful and enchanting could never be reality; it’s simply too wonderful, and could only ever exist amongst the pages of a magnificently written book.
What I mean to say is that I actually want to go to the Night Circus not just some random circus!Damn you Erin Morgenstern for making my heart long for the impossible!
Morgenstern then goes further and teases us with descriptions of circus food and beverages; she creates a place that is majestic and thoroughly irresistible.
The relationship that developed was believable; it was, in essence, very much like the book: pure magic.
I knew the prose was extremely flowery and lyrical so combined with an adult fantasy story, I anticipated it being a challenging read for me personally.
I feel it would be difficult to read this novel and NOT want to attend such a mysterious and intriguing event.
I love books that are extremely visual and I was not disappointed with this read.This book is really slow-paced which I could sometimes get behind, and other times struggled with.
This romantic plotline has been done thousands of times in literature, and there was nothing notable about this take.Overall, I did genuinely enjoy my time reading The Night Circus.
He teaches Celia to manipulate the world in the same way so that she can compete in a high-stakes game against Marco, an orphan similarly trained by her father's nemesis.
Neither Celia nor Marco knows the extent of the game, nor their opponent, until they have fallen in love with each other.
There was practically no exposition to give insight into these characters, no sense that they acted with reason beyond the need to make the story do what Morgenstern wanted.
I know that the distance between Celia and Marco was necessitated by Morgenstern's love story, but it hardly made the game feel Life-and-Death.
Reread: 2018Maybe more like a 2.5/5?I apparently enjoyed the audiobook much more because this time around I was really into it (and I remembered basically nothing from my original read, or listen rather) but then I got to the middle and I completely lost steam.
It wasn't really a bad thing but I just like fast paced books is what I'm trying to say.I felt there were waaaay too many characters.
It was hard for me to keep track of who was who and what they did and it was a little bit confusing at most times.And finally I just felt like there was something missing for me.
“The circus arrives without warning.”“You think, as you walk away from Le Cirque des Rêves and into the creeping dawn, that you felt more awake within the confines of the circus. You are no longer quite certain which side of the fence is the dream.” These sentences are the beginning and end of the mesmerizing story of  Le Cirque des Rêves. Three simple sentences that somehow encapsulate your emotions at the very point of the book they are placed. One filled with intrigue, the other with the lov
I don’t usually specify the ranking of the book when I tell you it’s one of my favorites because honestly- I can’t rank them, but I love this book too much for it to not be in the top 10.The very nature of this book seems enticing and the story pulls you along in a daze much like the story of the very circus it portrays.
Once I started the book I realized I couldn’t be more mistaken, the book does in fact tell the story of Celia and Marco, but it also entrances you in the world of  Le Cirque des Rêves, I fell in love with the circus, the concept of the story, the people, the writing and most of all, the sensational world Erin Morgenstern created.
This book was amazing! I loved it. Bought it in a charity shop. I am not usually a fan of books that involve magic. 2018 - After re-reading i still love this book. So much happening and great characters. Little confusing when it jumps around so much at the beginning. But i have moved it from a 5 star to a 4 now.
4.5⭐So intricate. So complicated. So atmospheric. I read this a few months back but I never really wrote anything, save for the six words above. Well, I just found what I wrote in one of my folders, so... here.Alright, let me start off by saying that this book was magic. Simple as that. Seriously, the writing?? Experience it, my friends. Just experience it for your selves. Furthermore, this is a book you have to read twice to really comprehend and appreciate the magic behind it – never had I bee
They are enigmatic and indecipherable and as the story starts to weave in, we get to, more or less see why and how they became to be who they are.--The slow-burn (if any) romance:Right, so, I don’t even know if I should really say 'romance' because the romance really takes a back seat to the main plot.
Truly stunning.But don’t take my word for any of it, seeing (experiencing) is believing!Couldn't give it the full rating because half the time I was so utterly and completely confused out of my mind that I’d constantly go back and REALLY read some parts -is that even a thing though?
It’s like Morgernstern conjured a spell of BB Cream and Concealer to hide the fact that there’s so many problem within the book.Now I’m going to talk about the problems, remember that this is all just my observation and opinion.1.
In fact, I really love slow paced books which took its time to develop the plot and characters carefully.
These 100+ pages could’ve been used to develop the characters and plot more but no, we get tons of repetitive description again on The Night Circus and unimportant information.Now let’s talk about the most misleading part in the blurb as well as the rest of the problems.
The main characters, Marco and Celia, were very hard to like.
For example, after one of Celia's friends dies, she goes to Marco for comfort.
At one point in the book, Celia is complaining about the emotional toll that this competition is having on her.
I would have loved the book if it had been about Chandresh and his pride, and how Marco and A.H manipulated that to their ends.
Out of all the potential characters and stories she had, Morgenstern chose the worst, and magnified them up to 1000.Besides the characters, this reader also had problems with the plot, namely that fact it was vague and riddled with loopholes.
Sometimes I want chocolate.
And sometimes I want the chocolate experience.
I resisted temptation, but the thought of chocolate lingered in my mind, and it was only a day or two before I found myself heading to my favorite chocolatier, craving the bittersweetness of an espresso-infused truffle.
The snap as my teeth bit through the dark chocolate coating, and the coffee-flavored richness of the silky ganache coating my tongue.The Night Circus is achingly beautiful.
If you look for slow, winding beauty, the walk in the sun-filled garden and the sparkle of sunlight off ice-covered trees, this might be your book.Cross posted at http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2012/1...
Find me on Instagram & Twitter! ❝When the final bulb pops alight, and the smoke and sparks dissipate, it is finally legible, this elaborate incandescent sign. Leaning to your left to gain a better view, you can see that it reads:Le Cirque des RêvesSome in the crowd smile knowingly, while other frown and look questioningly at their neighbors. A child near you tugs on her mother's sleeve, begging to know what it says.'The Circus of Dreams,' comes the reply.❞ Rating: ★ ★ ★ ★ The Night Circus wa
I wanted to see this book in a new light, from a reviewer's point of view, and see if this book is truly the greatness I once remembered as a teen.And now, I've come to the conclusion that no matter how young or old I am, The Night Circus will always be my favorite book of all time.
Though this book does have its flaws, Erin Morgenstern's writing has a way of luring and hooking you into her story, and just whisks you away through a mysterious, magical labyrinth that is The Night Circus.
it has been said that those who do not believe in magic will never find it, and this book is physical proof that magic does exist. every page, every word, every letter made a home inside my heart, which began to beat in a steady and strong rhythm of “i believe, i believe, i believe.” this story has woven itself into the very fabric of my soul and will forever be a part of me. a truly captivating story that made me fall in love with reading all over again.  5 stars
I don't like reading about unrestrained, no-holds-barred magic that is only limited by the imagination of the magician, with no boundaries or explanation of how it works.
I don't like endless descriptions of every-fucking-thing ever.I don't like books without a point or plot or reason for existing beyond their own wank.
Or the moves in the OH SO IMPORTANT Challenge (capital C) that is apparently, supposedly, the point of this book's and the circus's existence.
The universe does all the work and these two "main characters" just get moved around like chess pieces.
What was the point of enduring reading this book?
ولأنها قصة متعددة الأبعاد..ولأنهاأذن هي ليست قصة سيليا أبنة برسبيرو الساحر وماركو تلميذ السيد أ والتحدي بينهما فحسبهناك العديد من الشخصيات ,بل وبعضها يحدث في زمن يسبق الأخر ولكنك تقرأه في تمازج غريب وجذابكل شخصية عمقها علي حسب دورها في الأحداث, كلهم يربط بينهم خيط واحد...خيط السيرك الليلي مهما أختلف الزمن الذي به قصتهم, سواء عاملين به, من مؤسسيه أو من زواره الحالمين هناك الفتي الصغير بايلي أبن أحد المزارعين بأمريكا والذي أنجذب لبوبيت الفتاة ذات الشعر الأحمر التي ولدت بالسيرك يوم إفتتاحه هي وأخيها التوأم..وصارا من أعضاءهستجد هناك أيزوبيل قارئة أوراق التاروت الجميلة وحبها تجاه ماركو , قصة السيد تشاندريش وطموحاته العالية, السيد فريدريك صانع الساعات الذي يصمم ساعة بديعة للسيرك ,وبالرغم من اقتصار دوره عند ذلك الحد ألا أنه يقع في الحب...حب السيرك وساحرتهوهناك التوأمان برجيس..الأختان اللتان يتأثرا بالقوة الغامضة للسيرك بالرغم من أنهما مجرد مشاركتين في التأسيس بعيدا عن السحر..إلا أن حركة الزمن تجعلهما يشعرا بأن شيئا ما ليس علي مايرام5-..
It’s life-changing and gorgeous and all around my favorite setting for all time forever.BUT.Don’t forget.This book is also really bad.So how, pray tell, do I f*cking rate something like that?
Celia and Marco are two magician people (illusionists) who are both involved in the circus and use it to one-up each other until eventually they get way too busy making sweet sweet love to even try to be interesting.It’s less hurtful because they were never interesting, really.So that’s the plot but I cannot emphasize enough that it does not matter, is really boring, and only serves to take away any number of pages from just describing the circus.
I started reading The Night Circus on 8/15/17 and finished it on 8/21/17.
I can’t get enough of this story and the author’s writing!This book started out in the present day when The Circus of Dreams arrived without warning.
It’s important to pay attention to the date at the beginning of each chapter because it goes back to how the circus started to the present day where readers attend the circus to somewhere in the future where Bailey is predicted to be involved in the circus.
Marco’s magic is cool too because I can’t imagine how much he can do just by reading a lot of books.
It is impossible to explain this book without telling the entire story and giving away spoilers.
In the beginning there are so many characters and storylines that are to separate from each other that it initially feels like you're looking at a brand new 1000 piece puzzle and you have no where to start.
When the pieces of this puzzle start coming together the book goes from wow to amazing.
There is no better way to describe this book than a puzzle.The Night Circus manages to bring you into another world entirely.
You feel like you play a key role in this story.Another aspect of the book is the little bits where she is writing directly to you.
Try to imagine someone taking Carnivale, Somewhere in Time, Something Wicked This Way Comes, and The Prestige and mashing them all together into a poetic, stunning piece of fiction with a beautifully melancholic, bittersweet ending.
For some reason, this book reminds me of autumn, my favorite season (perhaps due to the aforementioned similarity to Something Wicked This Way Comes), and I think perhaps it will become a yearly read for me, when I inevitably begin to feel that pull to see orange, smell pumpkin, and hear the dry rustling of dead leaves as they dance down the street.My favorite part: 
Though you watch them for some time they do not move.
I didn't need or enjoy some all encompassing and oh so convenient romance thrown in - but this is just me, and I never do well with romances in books at the best of times.I also wasn't sure how I felt at the ending (view spoiler)[ either Celia or Marco has to die, but they manage to find a way to die, but not quite die?
Again it seemed very convenient that they were able to cop out (not that it wasn't nice that they were able to cop out, but still...) very soppy and romancy and again, not what I came for.
