https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869978-hungry-hill
The sections include: Book One: Copper John, 1820 - 1828; Book Two: Greyhound John, 1828 - 1837; Book Three: "Wild Johnnie," 1837 - 1858; Book Four: Henry, 1858 - 1874; Book Five: Hal, 1874 - 1895; Epilogue: The Inheritance, 1920; تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه اکتبر سال 1990 میلادیعنوان: تل گرسنه؛ نویسنده: دافنه دوموریه؛ مترجم: عبدالرحمن صدریه؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، فردوس: شباهنگ، 1368، در 488 ص،؛ چاپ دوم: تهران، میترا، 1377، شابک: 9645998212؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 20 مجان مسی، از خانواده های پولدار منطقه، فهمیده تپه معروف دهکده، یعنی: «تل گرسنه» دارای مس است.
John happened to love his wife too much and I think that the author was very wise in killing him off, so that he would be remembered regardless:“ ‘At least’, he thought, ‘if I have been the dullest of the Brodricks, I have also been the happiest.’ ”“Wild Johnnie” the son of John and Fanny-Rosa is also thoroughly mixed up, insecure and ends up with a very unfortunate end.“In one hand he clutched an empty bottle, and in the other, the New Testament.”As for Fanny-Rosa, she’s an exceptional individual and one is never too sure what she’s thinking, but she’s a fabulous character, lives in utter bedlam, confusion and a joy to read.

"I have the silver, you have the land"Du Maurier recounts the lives of several generations of the Brodrick family, landholders in Dunhaven Ireland starting in 1820 when "Copper John" Brodrick cements a deal to start a copper mine at the base of Hungry Hill.
The story of the family continues with subsequent generations as Copper John's sons and his grandsons battle to maintain the mines and the family fortune with the fluctuating price of copper and tin, along with their own personal and mental battles.
One of my favorite kind of books: a long family tragic saga spanning multiple generations.
When Copper John opens a mine on Hungry Hill in the town of Doonhaven against pretty much the whole community's will he invites a curse from a rival family, the Donovan's.
Passed down through each generation of successive John's and Henry's, one horrible thing after another happens to the family that extends to those brought into the family by marriage also, not just blood.
The opposition to the mine as a main plot point was fitting to read now with the fight over the Dakota Access Pipeline happening right now.
She’s quick becoming one of my favorite authors.
fena degil okunur, zamanin cok gerisinde kalmis bazi eski romanlar ki biz bunlara dogal olarak klasikler diyoruz her zaman okunuyor ve her zaman bir baska tad veriyor insana. Yazari sevdigim icin bu eserinide merak ettim ama bana o kadarfazla bir sey vermedi. maden isletmeciligi, kapitalizmin anayapisina sadik patronlar ve onun ailesi yozlasmis bir duzen. bir cok generasyon atlayan bir roman torunun torunu hikayesine almis. Bu zamanin yazarlarindan Somerset'in verdigi duygu zenginligini ne yazikki bu defa burda yazarimiz Daphne du Maurier verememis.
However we immediately know that the family has been in Ireland for a few generations and that one of the Brodrick man ended up being killed by a member of the Donovan family and the feud is still very much open.
His second marriage ruins his relationship with his children, with his friends and leaves only a shrewd and cold businessman.His son Hal, enjoyed a close relationship with his mother and ends feeling rejected by his father.
Relentlessly downbeat, woodenly written.
The storyline of this novel, too – ‘It is a passionate story of five generations of an Irish family and the copper mine on Hungry Hill [previously a beloved picnic spot of the children] with which their fortunes and fate were so closely bound’ – held very little appeal for me.
Despite this, I thought that as du Maurier is one of my favourite authors, I would purchase the novel anyway, mainly to see how she rendered her material, and to discover whether she could make the story an interesting one for me.The novel is split into five separate parts, every one of which follows a member of each consequent generation of the Brodrick family, who live at Clonmere Castle.
Old man Donovan tells Copper John that "your mine will be in ruins and your home destroyed and your children forgotten ...but this hill will be standing still to confound you." So the Donovan curse passes through the generations of Brodricks with tragedy awaiting most of the successors to the copper fortune.From Wikipedia:Hungry Hill is a novel by prolific British author Daphne du Maurier, published in 1943.
The family resembles the Puxleys who owned mines in Allihies, a parish in County Cork.The story spans the century from 1820 to 1920 following five male characters from a family of Anglo-Irish landowners, the Brodricks, who live in a castle called Clonmere.

تپه گرسنه ((یکی از برجسته ترین اثار دافنه دوموریه است ..که به مانند ربکا وخلیج کوچک مرد فرانسوی از سنتی یکسان در توصیف وقایع پیروی میکند.این کتاب سرگذشت افراد خاصی است که ایرلندی /کاتولیک وصاحب ومالک قصرها ومعادن بودنداما در مرور زمان رو به زوال ونابودی رفته اند ..دافنه دو موریه داستان این ستیز را قرنها ودر پنج نسل در رمانی زیبا به نام تپه گرسنه همراه با زیبایی ها وزشتیها وبا بیانی سحر انگیز وتوصیفی شیرین برا ی مخاطب بازگو میکند ..
the pace was a bit slow, but it was a compelling book andI found myself crying for the last two books. Interestingly, there was never a character that you loved totally or hated completely it was both for everyone.
An engaging and often moving family saga.
The tough substance which formed the character of Copper John seems to have been progressively mined from those of his descendants just as they mined the copper and tin from Hungry Hill which, now that I think of it, is probably intended as a metaphor for the struggle between the two representative families.
She quite quickly consumes Henry even to the point of his effectively disowning his children and the family home Clonmere (which, though never having visited she is sure she doesn't like), which was to the Broderick family as Hungry Hill was to the Donovans.
The story begins in 1820 as Copper John, patriarch of the Anglo-Irish Brodrick family, prepares to mine Hungry Hill for copper.
By the beginning of part four I was wishing the Balrog would just come out of the mountain and put them all out of their misery.(view spoiler)[Disaster strikes early as Copper John's heir, Henry, dies abroad of tuberculosis.
Copper John's daughter Jane is killed at eighteen in a mudslide orchestrated by her own father (don't ask).
I need not have been concerned because this is first rate piece of work.This is, I think, a study of character, not of one character but several : the sober, industrious "Copper John" Brodrick who establishes the mine on Hungry Hill, and a great family fortune, his second son "Greyhound John" whose heart isn't in the business, and his bitter alcoholic grandson, "Wild Johnnie" ; the second grandson, Henry, seems a safe pair of hands for the Brodrick family's fortunes, until the death of his beloved wife completely breaks his spirit so he ceases even to be a father to his children.
For each of Copper John's heirs and successors, some flaw of character proves his undoing, just as in classical and Shakespearean tragedy ; the novel is a cascade of tragedies.
A good story, about five generations of the Broderick family of Clonmere, Dunhaven, Ireland.
John was a widower with 5 children, Barbara, Henry, Eliza, John & Jane – only John was to marry and carry on the next generation.
The next generation is mainly about Henry and his wife Katherine and their 4 children, Molly, Hal, Kitty and Lizette and it finishes with the 5th generation in 1920, John Henry was the son of Hal and his wife Ginny.
I love stories that go down the generations being a family history buff.The other generation series that I really enjoyed was “The Brides of Montclair” by Jane Peart.
On the shelves for years, so it was a good way to start a New Year of reading.
2 stars according to my ratings: see below.
Didn't crave reading it but it was well done though not as good by far as other duMaurier's.
An explanation of my star rating.
Truly a good/maybe great book, but not a rare 5 star wonder.3= Moments of brilliance, a pleasure to read.
2= An average book...
since I'm not usually reading mass market romances/mysteries, they are average in MY range of books.
Despite being beautifully written, I felt somewhat depressed at the end of the novel because I didn't feel it was concluded very well and a lot of very bad things happened to people who frankly didn't deserve it!
The Donovans also seem to come out of things rather well despite their atrocious, murdering behaviour!
I think I'm one who likes a good bit of poetic justice in my reading as real life is so unfair to some people!So, brilliantly written, but I'm not sure I'd want to put myself through reading it again, with all the agonies and the ending which I found unsatisfactory.
While the generational family saga was mildly interesting, as someone with an interest in history, I found it completely irritating that the lives of these people was completely untouched by the mammoth historical events that went on during these decades, like the Irish population being decimated by famine, and the landlords such as those depicted in this book, being a part of the reason why so many died.
It was though the characters in the novel were living in some form of dome which sealed them off from history.
I love historical fiction, but only when it has some level of accuracy.
I found this book difficult to finish, mainly because Daphne du Maurier's skill as a creator of characters has developed men and women who have incredible potential, but end up being incredibly disappointing. Fanny, Johnny, Henry, Hal... It was easy to dislike Copper John but I found that when other characters I liked made poor choices over and over, it was hard to keep on reading. It's in keeping with the curse at the beginning of the book, which I suppose should have been my clue! Not a book I'd rush back to though.
Daphne du Maurier has long been a favourite author of mine. Hungry Hill did not disappoint. With a skill I admire, she brought to life several generations over the span of 100 years, expounding on their strengths and failures, their greed and their jealousies, while all the while Clonmere reigned on Hungry Hill.
Along the same lines as The Loving Spirit, focusing on a family across several generations. Both are interesting; neither page-turners. If you want gripping atmosphere and suspense, stick to Rebecca, Scapegoat, or My Cousin Rachel. Hungry Hill, however, is full of interesting, richly layered characters. Would make a decent mini-series.
The only copy I could get from my library was large print, so I felt ridiculous reading it, but it was worth the effort. Such an amazing epic story of the Brodrick family and the tragedies that follow them for a century. Du Maurier is brilliant and this novel is just as gripping as Rebecca or Jamaica Inn.
Slow to get going but beautifully and intuitively written, it is the story of two families embroiled in a feud over land, which spans more than five generations. It is set in southern Ireland and centres on a Coppermine dug deep into the bowels of Hungry Hill. The final scene brings an uneasy closure, although not before much tragedy. Heart-wrenching in parts. Glad I stuck with it!
always a good read
Not gonna lie...I was so bored by this one, it took me two months to finish.
Cinq hommes différents seront à la tête de la famille et des mines, juqu’au jour fatal ou une ancienne querelle refera surface, et que vengeance sera faite.C’est un livre qui m’a un peu rappelé Zola, avec sa manière déterministe de considérer la génétique et les prédispositions de caractère de chaque génération d’homme.
J’ai eu un peu de mal à entrer dans le livre au début, très certainement parce que c’est une (très) vieille édition française et que la traduction est un brin désuette.
Aussi parce que je ne m’attendais pas du tout à une histoire de mines, et que le sujet m’a un peu rebutée.
Evo još jednog osvrta na dobru i jako zanimljivu knjigu koja jednostavno vuče da se vidi što će se dogoditi dalje. Riječ je o knjizi Gladno brdo autorice Defne de Maurier. Knjiga je napisana jednostavnim stilom i brzo se uđe i fabulu knjige. Evo da vas malo upoznam i sa sadržajem. Radnja ovoga romana prati jednu obitelj od uspona do pada. Uspon počinje pod čvrstom rukom Johna Brondlicka koji svojom upornošću postaje vlasnikom Gladnog brda i tu počinje kopati bakar koji će mu donositi zaradu. Knjiga govori i o kasnijim generacijama njegove obitelji.
