https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88329.Waiting_for_God
Simone Weil’s Waiting for God was a Christmas gift for me in 2013, but one I received in time for Advent.
As any serious reader knows, when one encounters a significant book/author—much like when you meet the right person—can be almost as important as the book itself.Waiting for God is an unlikely but apt Advent read.
So often I wanted her to be here so I could ask, “What do you mean by this?” or, “Where have you gone now?”So far I’ve read and reread the Introduction, her letters to Father Perrin, her essay, “The Love of God and Affliction”—which is totally amazing – and prayed “Concerning the Our Father”*.
Modern readers could not embrace the life choices or ideas of Kierkegaard and Nietzsche, but ‘we read them for their scathing originality, for their personal authority, for the example of their seriousness, and for their willingness to sacrifice themselves for their truths.’ Simone Weil belongs in this category, ‘one of the most uncompromising and troubling witnesses to the modern travail of the spirit.’Simone Weil was born into a family of wealthy, intellectual, secular Parisian Jews.
She gave up extra rations (though it was advised to her by the doctors) and ate what was permissible to the French soldiers in the occupied France during the Second World War. As soon as she heard of a famine in China she could not contain herself - she wept for them.Her Writings:The book contains six letters that she wrote to a Catholic priest regarding her reason why she did not want to enter into the Catholic Church and there are three essays and a reflection on the Lord's Prayer.
A number of my mentors, thoughtful friends, and respected teachers have noted Simon Weil's influence and have urged me to read her essays--but I resisted.
For instance these politically incorrect words, "Quite apart from explicit religious belief, every time that a human being succeeds in making an effort of attention with the sole idea of increasing his grasp of truth, he acquires a greater aptitude for grasping it, even if his effort produces no visible fruit." Weil was no Thomas Dewey-oid utilitarian educator.Weil is much quoted but I suspect like many thoughtful writers exploring difficult topics is less often read.
Each of these essays, particularly, the aforementioned “Forms of the Implicit Love of God” are some of the most profound and intellectually challenging writings I have experienced.
The final essay contained in the book is “Concerning the Our Father” and the six petitions within the Lord’s Prayer (the Catholic version that ends with “but deliver us from evil”, not the Protestant version).
That Weil, de Beauvoir (Weil’s contemporary at the Sorbonne), and Day are lumped into the same category speaks to a fundamental misunderstanding of the three women’s contributions and outlooks and an intellectually lazy glossing-over of what each represents: they are grandly divergent individuals, only their sex and religious affiliation are common.
I'm also likely not the 'right' reader for this book - it's steeped so heavily in excessive self-involvement and examination that I found it oftentimes difficult to find where, in fact, God comes into play - other than as a vessel for her to delve deeper into her own psyche and proclamations of enduring faith.
I try and revisit her periodically and am still very far from coming to any definite views on her life and thought.
Reading Nietzsche one gets the impression he's frantically trying to convince himself he's not a slave; Weil came to accept the truth of Christianity after recognizing herself as one.
The story of one young woman who attempted to replace food with Jesus, with predictable results.
The final chapter, "Concerning the Our Father," breaks down each line of the Lord's prayer with a mature insight that dissects and reassembles it into a cohesive spiritual whole.The most brilliant section of the book though is a 20 page essay tucked right in the middle, "The Love of God and Affliction." It is a profound attempt at explaining the plight of so many people that lived through horrific and inhuman wars of the early 20th century.
It deserves to be reintroduced to a spiritually-starved world.Edited to add, after several re-readings:The short chapter on "The Love of God and Affliction" is still the most profound piece ever written on suffering and affliction.
It's true I was impressed with Weil's intelligence and strong sense of what is right for her (like her explanation for why she doesn't get baptized), also her honesty about injustices committed through the church (if the Catholic church ever wants to be relevant, she suggests, it will have to say they've changed since the Inquisition).
Weil has a positive desire to be commanded to do painful and unpleasant things.
But knowing the damage that the martyrdom drive within religion has done to people -- particularly women -- well, I stopped being much interested in Weil's explanation of the world.
In places Simone Weil's writings indeed have a wondrous mystical quality; there I found myself captivated in the realm of the deeply spiritual and personal.
I want to consider these further after having read this book.At other times, her writings seem shaped by the metric of the logical, mathematical proof - perhaps reflecting how she idealized her older brother, who was a brilliant mathematician.
And before long I discovered yet another gem.Given the philosophical nature of this book, I want to reread it to glean the mystical elements more fully.
Reread in 2014 (2016, 2107). Original review HEREThe short chapter on "The Love of God and Affliction" is still the most profound piece ever written on suffering and affliction. Also, upon the reread, I found the Introduction by Leslie Fiedler much more insightful and well written than during my first read. Though Weil in later life retained socialist sympathies and toyed with naive political theories unrelated to her spiritual and moral explorations, it came as a surprise to me that Fiedler, a vocal Marxist, could capture her thought so well.
In all honesty, I couldn't finish this book, so the rating is certainly incomplete. I found the half that I read so unbearable that I couldn't go on. The author is at best delusional and at worst a liar in regards to her faith. I had hoped for an honest, straightforward and enlightening look at faith and god but instead got the ravings of a zealot.
La verità come emozione a sé. Si può piangere di verità.
Mysticism as an aspect of religious belief has always fascinated me because it is the purest form of worship or union one has to their maker. There are no intermediaries or dogma to govern behavior or process; the spiritual path is highly personal and individualistic. Simone Weil lived in a time of great upheaval and died as the Second World War was turning. In this book of letters and essays, Weil attempts to articulate her experiences and justifies her beliefs and actions as part of a philosophical journey in understanding existence amidst suffering.
Oriunda de uma família fortemente judaica, apesar dos seus estudos de filosofia, nunca se definiu religiosamente como coisa alguma até ter vivido, o que considerou, a revelação da existência de Deus e da figura de Cristo.
Este livro não apresenta o período de conversão da autora, mas sim os seus textos quando já tinha construído uma muito bem delineada teoria sobre a forma como ela encarava a figura de Deus, ente que considera o epiteto da beleza e da perfeição e cuja a revelação em cada individuo ela tão bem demonstra.
Her visions convinced her of the relentless need for grace, of the profound reality of God, of the divine sacrifice of Christ, and yet she never took communion.
Despite her faith and conviction, the profound violence of the church prevented her from joining in communion.
She felt that if grace were indeed to be sufficient, then God would usher her into the communion at a time of his choosing.
It is alone, outside of the communion that she can be sure that faith is not propped up by her desire for community.
The world is clear, but without hope or meaning, save through the impossible faith.
she displays an incredible understanding of the relationship between our earthly life and the life of heaven, it's amazing that she gathered so much experience and wisdom and insight in her short time on earth.
God crosses the universe and comes to us.""it is because beauty has no end in view that it constitutes the only finality here below.
all things that we take for ends are means.
it was because he was so honest in his suffering, because he would not entertain any thought that might impair its truth, that God came down to reveal the beauty of the world to him."
My instructor wanted us to approach this text without taking either of two reductionist positions toward Weil: (a) she’s the “saint of our times,” as the introduction daringly asserts, (b) she’s a flat-out heretic.
Despite an understanding and love of Catholicism deeper than that of many Catholics, she is left attracted but repelled, unconvinced that she should embrace the totality of belief.
Despite these caveats, Weil has a remarkable love for her neighbor and a strong sense of justice.
In summary, there is much to love about Weil … and much to be frustrated about, too!
It strikes me as always worthwhile to understand the views of those who see the world differently than you.However, ultimately, I fail to see why Weil is so influential given the fact that reading her essays feels like trudging through a swamp and trying to find the markers for the path, but they're at the bottom of the sludge.2 stars feels harsh, but I promptly listed my copy on half.com after finishing it.
Simone Weil’s "Waiting for God" was first published, posthumously, in 1951.
(Weil had been a Marxist and trade unionist before encountering mysticism.) But her startling insights into the nature of God and God’s relationship to humanity remain fresh and are truly worth the struggle through this imposing text.Weil’s life was a short one.
I’m inclined to conclude that Weil was an anorexic ahead of her time, but that doesn’t mean she isn’t also the modern-day saint and mystic that many believe her to be.Read the rest of my review and hear some pithy selections from "Waiting for God" at:http://barbarafalconernewhall.com/200...
Simone Weil ends her Spiritual Autobiography: “every time I think of the crucifixion of Christ I commit the sin of envy.” Spiritual masochist, political anorexic, Weil is a “Saint in an age of alienation.” This is a posthumous collection of pieces, one of the century’s great books and one of my favorites.
“Sin,” she writes “is a turning of our gaze in the wrong direction.” Weil’s shocking claims are performances of spiritual art at times disturbed, gorgeous and unforgettable.
"Maar ook zou men openlijk en officieel moeten erkennen dat de godsdienst uit niets anders bestaat dan uit aandacht. Voorzover zij beweert iets anders te zijn, sluit zij zichzelf onvermijdelijk op binnen de muren van de kerken, of zij verstikt alles, overal waar zij maar verschijnt. De religie dient geen andere plaats in de samenleving te willen opeisen dan die past bij de bovennatuurlijke liefde in de ziel."
It's worth four stars just for the title, isn't it?
Perhaps, with more time given to reflection and contemplation, I would eventually understand such passages as this:"The penal apparatus is like a transmitter which turns the whole volume of defilement contained in all the circles where the miserable crime is to be found upon each accused person.
My justification: Weil's section "Love of the Order of the World" has kept me ooh-ing and ahh-ing, and it's been the most accessible part of her lengthy essay, "Forms of the Implicit Love of God," so far.
Whoa. I need time to process this.
Simone Weil argues that true attention is essential for the intellectual to come to love God and neighbor.
For Weil, friendship is the supernatural ability for two persons to be in relation and yet each retain his/her autonomy.
Two people together are never quite equal naturally, and as Weil notes, “there is no friendship where there is inequality”, thus the need for divine intervention to create friendship (134).
The balancing of needs and autonomy present in neighbor love and friendship showcase the supernatural source of these relations.
For years I've heard the name Simone Weil, but never got around to reading her works.
Weil was certainly one of the most honest persons of her time searching for truth.
And she was open to genuine truth wherever she found it.
The scope of her reading and knowledge is monumental, and her life-experience wasn't far behind.
Her health was a factor all her life.
While I respect her philosophical writings, her integrity, etc., I confess that I found it ponderous & far above my capacity to really understand.
That shouldn't discourage others, I hope, from reading Weil & forming their own conclusions.
No. Simone Weil once said to Simone de Beauvoir that the world needed a revolution that would feed all the people on earth.
Simone de Beauvoir, responded that the purpose of life was not to make people happy, but to find the reason for life.
Simone Weil responded, then, "It's easy to see you've never been hungry." So far, so good.
But Weil's letters here are full of self-loathing, Manichean denial, and flights of unfathomable reasoning that it is hard to take her seriously as anything else than a deeply confused, depressed, and almost narcissistic tragedy.
Problematizes the boundaries between who is "christian" and who is not.
Also repaints the entire enterprise of spirituality as focus, attention.
One of the gems that I found was that Weil discusses the danger of ideas.
For example, the church is responsible for unleashing totalitarian power into the world.
The church obviously failed at totally governing their body.
But the fact that they tried unleashed the concept of totalitarian power.
Fast forward some hundred years...
and one can see how the Nazi's employed similar liturgical concepts to their rallies in efforts to sustain the total control over their empire.Really enjoyed this one.
