https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90872.Self_Help
I can't remember which of her books it is, I think it's this one, in which a character observes: "This Danish is too Sweetish for me to Finnish!"If you don't like that, you probably wouldn't like Lorrie Moore much.And if you don't like Lorrie Moore, I probably wouldn't really like you.
This book is so beautiful I can't even stand it.Choice quotes:"Cold men destroy women," my mother wrote me years later.
But your coldness.
That is what you do to the world."- Page 36"You love once, I told you.
Even when you love over and over again it is the same once, the same one."- Page 134"When you were six you thought mistress meant to put your shoes on the wrong feet.
Now you are older and know it can mean many things, but essentially it means to put your shoes on the wrong feet."- Page 5
SIX WORD REVIEW: To think, she was twenty five.
You pick up Lorrie Moore’s collection of short stories called Self-Help because you’ve always admired her writing.
Not because you are a master of the form, like Moore, but more because your short stories are peppered with a sort of sad and self-deprecating humor.What you love about reading short story collections over short story anthologies is that you can pick up the threads that move throughout the stories.
You enjoy the collection because you enjoy Moore’s writing, however you are a little put off by the choice of the second person in so many of the stories.You wonder what it is about the second person that you don’t like.
“Meet in expensive raincoats, on a pea-soupy night.” So begins the first story of Lorrie Moore’s first book, most of which she wrote as an M.F.A. student at Cornell University. Eight words, none of which would tax the vocabulary of a fifth-grader, and yet all of the signature elements that Moore built her award-winning career on are there: the fledgling attempts at urbanity so fragile they must be spelled out (“expensive raincoats”), the perfectly failed eloquence (“pea-soupy”), and the self-ca
So begins the first story of Lorrie Moore’s first book, most of which she wrote as an M.F.A. student at Cornell University.
And yet, the accumulated effect of these stories is that of a romantic temperament that has been profoundly disappointed, and who can’t relate to that?
The step-by-step life instructions peddled by the self-help industry to the disappointed romantics that make up 100% of the American adult population are probably most readily classifiable as the third kind of joke, but, as long as you’re reading these stories, they can very nearly almost feel like one of the other two.
This was my first Lorrie Moore collection, and I really truly enjoyed it.
However, some of the stories are considerably longer than others, and there were points during the last story in particular in this collection that I found my attention waning...
Overall I'm so happy that I finally got to this book, and I'm also happy that I unintentionally started with Lorrie Moore's first collection - I will for sure be picking up more of her work.
This book was a lyrical masterpiece of interconnecting words, meanings, and emotions.
It was the cat's pajamas--that is, if the cat had just broken up with her boyfriend and stayed at home watching old Ingrid Bergman movies, getting over it by darkly observing the world and making the saddest jokes a cat will ever meow.
That is an example of an overextended metaphor and is not that accurate in describing the amazing, heartbreaking soulfulness that is this book.It's funny, sad, dark, and uplifting.
Read it.
You will not regret it, although you will regret that you will never be able to read it for the first time ever again.
This semester I began my Creative Writing course with an out loud, round-the-class, reading of an essay (which turns out to be from Self-Help) called "How to Become a Writer Or, Have You Earned This Cliché?" Another teacher I know (recommender of David Schickler from last week) does the same thing and it turned out to be a hit for us both.I picked up Self-Help after reading another flat-out amazing Moore story (this time in a Paris Review Collection) called "Terrific Mother," which so far ranks in my top ten short stories of all time.
While waiting, I read "How to Talk to Your Mother," chosen not at random but because I had one of those obligatory phone conversations with my mother yesterday after more than a year of contact only through e-mail and the occasional message.
I think I said something vague like, "We'll have to see how things go."Which has nothing at all to do with Moore's story, which recounts the life of a mother and daughter in a series of quick flashes, each representing a year counted down in reverse to the daughter's birth.

Every single short story I wrote in my undergrad creative writing workshops was a ripoff of Lorrie Moore in some way. I'm sure I'm not the only one.
With much respect for Moore's compelling writing, I have found these stories difficult. I guess I am psychologically too vulnerable.
Lorrie Moore has a talent with words and poetic images, but the stories in this collection were so depressing. I only loved the first one, about the woman who becomes a mistress, I found it beautifully done and deserving a high rating, but the others weren’t my cup of tea. My 2 stars rating is the inadequate but necessary average.
The following passage slayed me:Pace around the kitchen and say that you are unhappy.But I love you, he will say in his soft, bewildered way, stirring the spaghetti sauce but not you, staring into the pan as if waiting for something, a magic fish, to rise from it and say: That is always enough, why is that not always enough?Many of the stories are written in that self-help style.
Apart from sporadic, brutally honest passages (like the one quoted above), though, I feel sort of "eh" about the collection.
I don't feel much urgency to read more Moore(!), but I'm curious about how her other collections compare; I know she has quite a following.
I discovered Lorrie Moore while listening to the audio book of The Best American Short Stories Of The Century edited by John Updike.
Lorrie Moore's command of humour is unrivalled, she does it so masterfully, it doesn't feel like she's dumbing down just for the sake of it or throwing jokes around just for the sake of being funny.
The stories in this collection are both tragic and comic, poignant and wholesome, and it's very hard to pick out favourites as you'd traditional do when reviewing any anthology.
All the stories here are gems in their own right and collectively, the aesthetic feel of the book is flawless.
The stories focus around relationships - familial and romantic (overall, I strongly preferred the romantic variety in this collection).
If you Google “Lorrie Moore How to Be an Other Woman” a pdf of the story comes up (I’m not going to link it here as it’s likely not in accordance with copyright law) BUT it’s a really good taster for the rest of the collection (and a great story in and of itself) if you’re interested.
More than anything, I enjoyed the writer’s relationship with language. She uses words as a gold medalist in rhythmic gymnastics handles a brightly colored ball — dazzlingly confident with incredible grace.
In “How to Be an Other Woman” the protagonist reflects on her relationship with a married man - “When you were six you thought mistress meant to put your shoes on the wrong feet.
Now you are older and know it can mean many things, but essentially it means to put your shoes on the wrong feet.”In “How” a young woman slowly falls out of love with her boyfriend - “Apartments can shrink inward like drying ponds.
The way only lies can.”Every story is filled with these little gems, at times poignant and sad, but told with such adry humor and crackling wit that one has to sit back and admire the artistry.
They are musings on relationships that started off with a bang with the very funny opening piece entitled: "How to Be an Other Woman." Other woman” is the opening piece and an exceptional little short story.
It is quite funny and Moore has a way of detaching herself from the characters and create a story that could be pure pathos into a sardonic view of a young woman having an affair with a man whom she presumes is married.
Because I'm reading the collected stories of Ms Moore for one, along with a number of other tomes, but I read this book within that book so it defo counts!!(Man, now that the winter's over, I took an Easter break and haven't had alcohol since Xmas, my motivation and productivity are through the roof!
My first book of hers was "Like Life" and I still remember reading it when I was super anxious and feeling so soothed by it that I took a nap.
But I'm sure if Ms Moore herself were to look at it again she'd rewrite the hell out of it.Holds up!
"Like Life" still my favourite because it was the first I found.
I think there's tons of valid criticism to be made about this book, and even she herself has called the stories "chock full of mistakes of judgement and taste and sensibility," but I admire this collection.
The three longest stories are in the 1st or 3rd person, but the rest are all in the 2nd person, which I tend to disagree means "instructive you," even if the titles begin with "How to..." There's something to be said about the title when it comes to that matter- Self-Help.
I enjoy all of the stories, but my favorites are "Go Like This" and "To Fill." Both are worth reading over and over again.
Fucking funny a lot of the time, too.An important short story collection.
"They woo them with something personable that they bring out for show, something annexed to their souls like a fake greenhouse, lead you in, and you think you see life and vitality and sun and greenness, and then when you love them, they lead you out into their real soul, a drafty, cavernous, empty ballroom, inexorable arched and vaulted and mocking you with its echoes -- you hear all you have sacrificed all you have given, landing with a loud clunk.
Wow. This book was depressing and hopeless and all the characters were abysmal.Yikes.
I sound so judgmental.But there it is.
Everything about this book felt cold.
I felt as though all the characters, even at their most honest, their most vulnerable, were covering something up, most of them hiding behind silly and witty phrases but never experiencing an emotional breakthrough or recovery or...
everything just sort of is and drifts and...
blah!Except Riva.
That woman took some action.
God bless her.
But for all the cleverness in this book I remain unmoved.
This collection still seems as innovative and inventive as it did when I first read it in ’85.
Her “How to…” stories had such a spark of originality about them that stylistically they couldn’t be copied.
Second person point of view feels fresh again.
Of course it’s not just the POV.
She combines that with a unique syntax that makes ordinary words fresh.
And the ironic and sarcastic humor, a loose mask for an incredible bitterness, a bitterness that really only comes out in the humor.
In her later work, Moore writes better stories, but I prefer this collection because of its raw originality.
Compelling and often heart-wrenching stories that work together perfectly as a collection, with characters and scenarios popping up in one story that were mentioned briefly previously. These stories were written thirty years ago, but were still powerful enough to make me want to call my mother and tell her I love her. Though they are typical in their topics, they are very atypical in their telling: second-person, how-to-style manuals. Very intriguing and unique.
This collection of short stories is like having a hug from your best friend when you're crying then suddenly it's a slap and she's telling you to 'stop being a whiny little shit'. In the best possible way. It's like Lorrie Moore has lived a thousand different lives as a thousand different women, its tender and cathartic and cold and shrewd. I love it.
Deserves all the superlatives. She writes sharply, flawlessly, intensely.
A fucking goldmine.
Hands down my favorite short story collection EVER. Not exaggerating. It changed me, moved me, exhilarated me in ways few books ever have.
Moore’s description in one scene: “When he is fast asleep upon you, in the middle of the night, send your left arm out slowly toward the nightstand like a mechanical limb programmed for a secret intelligence mission, and bring the ski garb picture back close to your face in the dark and try to study the features [of his wife] over his shoulder… slip carefully out, like a shoe horn… and go to the closet… stare at the clothes… look at the shoes… they are like small cruise missiles.”In the second, Moore tells the story of a another young girl’s experience during the events leading up to her parent’s split; how she once saw her father as this perfect human being, so talented and so funny, and then that perception slowly changing over time, as her father, for whatever reason/s, loses his fondness for her mother (perhaps she becomes less interesting to him because of his artistic endeavors).
