https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/83432.No_More_Dying_Then
An Inspector Wexford book I really liked!The good inspector and his associate, Mike Burden, really have a challenging case this time.
Is someone in their small village abducting children, and if so, why are all the police's leads leading nowhere?Meanwhile Mike Burden is going through a crisis of conscience, of emotions, of family, and all due to the fact that he is suddenly, and tragically a widower.
(Not a spoiler; this happens off-scene before the book starts.) Mike is more than totally bereft; he is lost, anchorless, a complete misery walking.
The most difficult, uncharacteristic Wexford novel thus far doesn't necessarily have the most successful mystery, but its risky and ambitious character work makes up for that.Mike Burden's beloved wife has died unexpectedly before the start of this novel, and Burden, usually a buttoned-up, polite, tirelessly engaged man, has responded to this situation by becoming a total asshole.
Then he felt Wexford's heavy hand on his shoulder."Mike, my dear old friend..."It's Rendell's commitment to how bad things can get that makes the forgiveness of them, both here in and with Mike's sister-in-law, land.
Even though the mysteries here are good, the heart of this novel is the worst time of a good man's life.
Engrossing book with an unconvincing ending
As a brief St. Luke's Little Summer in mid-October gives the village of Kingsmarhkam a respite from the coming winter, Chief Inspector Reginald Wexford and his colleague Mike Burden are caught up in the case of a young boy gone missing.
His life is empty and Burden can no longer see how to move forward without the one woman he's loved for so long.So when he meets the missing boy's mother, Gemma, and sees how completely unlike she is to Jean, Burden's repressed sexual urges and need for love nearly send him out of his mind, making him act in quite an unprofessional way.
Read again 01/02/17 for maze mystery discussion group.
It took her death a few months ago for me to read her first Inspector Wexford mystery and now this one is even better than that.
Wexford is a great detective and puts together the clues well once they all come to him.
This is a complicated story of two child kidnappings more than six months apart which come together in the search for suspects.
The interaction between Wexford and his next in command Burden is wonderful, even when it is strained as in this story.
I have read several of these Inspector Wexford books.
A 4 year old boy has disappeared outside his own house while playing with others in the neighborhood.
This after a 12 year old girl had disappeared months earlier and had never been found.
Instead of just being a police procedural about finding the links in the cases and solving the mystery, this story focuses especially on Wexford's right hand man, Inspector Burden.
Wexford solves the case without the help of his friend Burden.
I found the story compelling and interesting because the dual tales.
What has been odd at times is the focus Rendell places on Burden, the nudge-winkingly named understudy of the titular Wexford who seems to be so much more interesting to the author.
I'm still digesting, but it seems as though Rendell has created (at least in this novel, but it seems to be pointing in a particular direction--we'll see how it goes) Wexford as a comic foil to Burden's pathos.The second thing that makes this book so much better is a minor thing, but it goes far in correcting a near-fatal error for me.
More than anything else, technology can date a story, and in the earlier books Rendell clearly, obviously, places her stories in the 60s.
6 Hours 43 MinsDescription: This novel deals with the disappearance of a small boy.
Six months earlier, a twelve-year-old girl disappeared in the same vicinity, and was never found.
At the same time, Burden is having a very hard time dealing with the loss of his wife to cancer about nine months earlier.
In fact, the secondary plot of Burden's emotional struggles almost overshadows the mystery itself.
How many ways can you spell 'boring' and 'recycled as carbons'?The crime is damnably vanilla.
Just when you thought that you definitely cannot invest more time in this book and decided to read it intermittently, you then realized, aghast, that alas, this book features the one and inimitable English Puritan distilled and personified, our very own  walking skeleton  Michael Burden.Jeez.
It is rare that a suffering character does not elicit sympathy, but Mike Burden manages to do so.
I had deemed this book boring based on the crime.
I then decided afterwards that this book is unsalvageable judging from the character Rendell chose to put in the limelight.
A five-year-old boy goes missing and, in short order, circumstantial evidence connects it to the earlier disappearance of a 12-year-old girl in the same neighborhood.Chief Inspector Reg Wexford is immediately involved in sifting clues but receives little help from a self-absorbed Inspector Mike Burden, his usual sounding board and second-in-command.Burden has fallen in love with the mother of the missing boy, which makes him a burden (excuse the pun) and not a plus to the investigation.
I’ve always considered Burden somewhat of a prig, but he goes beyond that in this novel.
Burden’s wife, Jean, has died of cancer; not yet forty years old, Mike Burden is desperately lonely.
Grace is much like Jean in many ways – motherly, a good housekeeper, and orderly and efficient person – and Mike admires those qualities greatly.
In his misery, Mike takes Grace for granted, ignores his children, and falls hard for the mother of a missing child in the case he is investigating.
And will Mike Burden’s romance with the boy’s mother, a bohemian redheaded actress who is nothing like his late wife, be a blessing or a curse to him?
This is an interesting one from Ruth Rendell and, with hindsight, seems to mark the point at which she’d decided that Chief Inspector Wexford, rather than his sidekick DI Burden, would be the audience’s main point of identification.
The story is a fairly run-of-the-mill mystery, by Rendell’s standards, but the main interest is in the reader’s despair over the grieving Burden’s conduct and how long it’s going to take him to pull himself together.
In an earlier book in the series (Wolf to the Slaughter), a young policeman is tested by his passionate involvement with a woman who features in the case.
In this novel, Inspector Burden experiences the same thing.
His bereavement has left him terribly vulnerable...but fortunately his involvement does not lead to disaster.
Burden is a conventional, unimaginative man, who refuses to use profanity or tell dirty jokes, and as a result is often made fun of and misunderstood.
When he loses his beloved wife Jean, he feels even more alienated from others, since they have no idea of the passion that he and Jean shared from the beginning.
(Or at least that was my impression.) Burden's wife has died; he is having a hard time concentrating at work, doesn't pay attention to his children, and has an affair with a woman with whom he has very little in common.I also felt that the ending was too much deus ex machine (view spoiler)[ Finding the missing child because the mother and Burden are having a vacation-type trip, not because of detective work  (hide spoiler)].If I had read more of the earlier books and understood more about who Burden was before his wife's death I might have been more sympathetic to the character.
One of Rendell's best. It is moving and insightful. She artfully avoid her tendencies to show off her learning and to cook up endings that have almost nothing to do with the rest of the book. Instead, she creates realistic characters and a believable conclusion here. If you are new to her work, this volume in the Inspector Wexford series is an ideal place to start.I especially appreciated her portrait of Wexford's primary aide and colleague, Michael Burden, whose psyche is explored in great depth and with tenderness.
I don't love Rendell's Inspector Wexford mysteries to find and read all of them in order, but they're something I do like to pick up here and there when I'm in a mood for a procedural. It's interesting how much of the story here is timeless (the reactions to the missing children, some of the interpersonal stuff), and how much of it is so dated (the assumptions about and attitudes toward women). Not the best mystery novel ever, but good as airplane reading.
The plot was good but the thrill just kept declining. Wexford was a good character and the way he solved the murder of the girl was great. But whenever Burden came into picture, he just ripped the story. He is selfish, sex-starved and he hates his own kids. He is seen taking advantage of a vulnerable woman who just lost her only child and the way he found the lost child was superb lame. Burden's character was useless.
This is the first book by Ruth Rendell I've read, although it is the sixth in the series about Inspector Wexford. There was no problem in getting to know the regular characters. Inspector Wexford was quite interesting, and so was Inspector Mike Burden, although Burden was extremely self-centered in this book. The views on women were also interesting, since it's not THAT long ago this book was written (1971), but it was quite different from what I would expect from a man today.
Rendell novels are always reliably good. This is a bit dated, especially in its attitudes towards women and their roles, but she's writing at a time when these roles are beginning to be questioned and people are in the midst of their early adjustments. The ending ties up a bit too neatly, but I enjoyed the book so much overall that I felt forgiving.
I recently reread this, and while the resolution of the mystery itself may be rather farfetched, the clues for it are given. What struck me most about it, though, was the lyricism of the writing. Rendell is here at her best in evoking moody landscapes, inchoate dread, and the terrifying incalculability--and unexpected grace--of human relationships.
Rendell can spin a tale like few others. I could not put this down. You are inside the story from page 2 and never lets down. For those of us who have ready other inspector Wexford novels, this one has quite a twist regarding his assistant, Burden. And what a plot Rendell pulls off! Do not miss.
While another riveting installment in the Wexford series, I must say I really hated Burden in this one. He was such a misery I started to dread his portions of the story. However, with her customary brilliance, Rendell was able to pull it out in the end. On to the next, quick smart!
This is a very beautiful book. It tells the story of Inspector Burden's healing after the death of his wife. Mike Burden has always been a favourite of mine. One of the best Wexfords.
You can't beat a Ruth Rendell detective story, even if Mike Burden needs a good smack upside the head for most of it.
Inspector Wexford #6
lots of detail in the plot and the person responsible for the crime wasn't who I imagined it would be. I thought the detective was the culprit.
Such an incredible and satisfying writer -- I'm so delighted that she has several dozen books waiting for me!
This is a great read and do enjoy her take on Wexford and all the other characters
Folks either love or hate this entry into Ruth Rendell’s Inspector Wexford series. I personally loved it. It’s the characters that keep me coming back, and I loved bearing witness to the buttoned-up Mike Burden, with his whore-madonna complex, going off the rails. Appreciate how Rendell paints an erotic scrim without feeling the need to give us every forensic detail.I’d like to think that the depictions of women’s roles in this and the previous few Wexford entries were already antiquated in the
Folks either love or hate this entry into Ruth Rendell’s Inspector Wexford series.
I’d like to think that the depictions of women’s roles in this and the previous few Wexford entries were already antiquated in the early 1970s; that their description here is descriptive as well as making a commentary.
Surely Rendell herself wasn’t a woman who did her washing on Wednesdays, her ironing on Thursdays, etc.
Surely we are supposed to read Burden’s daydreams about a domesticated future with his paramour as ludicrous?
I credit listening to the audio versions of Rendell’s Wexford series in order in rapid succession.
Enjoyed the audio version read by Robin Bailey.
I’ve mixed feelings about this one.
Portraying the stiff buttoned up Burden as a collapsing wreck of a man, overcome by grief, erotic lust and poor judgement it’s a ballsy and at times raw angle taken by Rendell.
Given that it comes 6 books into a series, it’s an impressive feat, albeit one that can make for difficult reading at times.
It’s rare to see this level of character development in a long running series (at least in a single book), yet it provides a satisfying and emotionally rewarding journey.Interesting approach.
