https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32758901-all-systems-red
Usually what I do on here is tell stories about how I feel about books.
Or I maunder on about some element of the book I read and use it as a stepping off point to discuss characterization, or tension, or something like that.
So let me do something that I rarely do in these reviews, I'm going to make simple declarative statement.This is one of the best stories I've read in years.Hmm...
Sometimes I never come out and actually state it at all...Let's try another.I've never felt an emotional connection to the protagonist of a book like this before.
I have to confess, that sounds like me during most of my adolescent years (substitute books for videos and you have me at every family event, ever).Written as a novella, the plot takes off from page two.
The leader, Dr. Mensah, soon distinguishes herself with crisis management and leadership, while an augmented human, Gurathin, presents a different kind of challenge.My one hesitation in calling it a five star book is the ending, which felt somewhat awkward and incongruous to the personality earlier, which displayed little curiosity or independence.
I predict some kind of award nomination next season.Wells and Tor.com recently announced that the novella is first in a four part series.
(4.25) I related to Murderbot a bit too much…Murderbot is a half robot, half human construct who’s job is to be a security guard to protect some humans while they do their research on a planet.Thing is, Murderbot doesn’t really like humans and would rather watch entertainment videos all day.Fun novella, I just want moooore!
But instead of going on a killing spree, as one might expect given the name it adopted, Murderbot elects to spend its spare hours watching countless hours of video entertainment and trying not to interact more than is necessary with the group of eight humans that it’s responsible for protecting, a survey group of eight scientists called PreservationAux that is exploring the natural resources on an uninhabited planet.Murderbot’s self-isolation and studied lack of caring starts to break down, however, when potentially deadly accidents start to occur with suspicious regularity.
”I could have become a mass murderer after I hacked my governor module, but then I realized I could access the combined feed of entertainment channels carried on the company satellites. It was well over 35,000 hour or so since then, with still not much murdering, but probably, I don’t know, a little under 35,000 hours of movies, serials, books, plays, and music consumed. As a heartless killing machine, I was a terrible failure.” He is an android SecUnit assigned to a group of scientists who are
He is an android SecUnit assigned to a group of scientists who are taking surface samples on some far flung planet.
The humans he is assigned to keep alive are better than the average group, but really he just wants to be left alone so he can figure out exactly who he is now that he can choose what commands he obeys.
It was hard not to think about how everything was going to go wrong and they were all going to die and I was going to get blasted to pieces or get another governor module stuck in me.”The other baffling problem is the humans in his care are starting to like him and treat him like a real person.
When I heard the premise I expected a light robot killer story from the PoV from the robot.
Probably a PI mystery kind of thing because that seems to be pretty hot right now.
I can rattle off a handful of titles like this right now.So. What did I get?
:)Honestly, that's pretty cool.
It's pretty boring until she finds that she really wants to protect people after all.The plot's fairly simple, the prose is light, and the premise rolls right along.
It's mystery fluff with a hard SF chassis.
All Systems Red is the first book in The Murderbot Diaries quartet by Martha Wells.
I've heard tons of praises about this novella and series; All Systems Red in particular received plenty of awards and because of that I was super excited to start this.
The first 30% was honestly fun to read, I laughed and smiled a few times and I loved just how much of a spirit animal Murderbot is.
And then I realized that the only thing from the book that I loved has to do with the opening lines:
Niki's Narrative Novella Review [Part 1/4]: All Systems Red seemed to have everything I’d been hounding for in a good sci-fi – an interesting character, a compelling mystery, exploration, and some cool technology shit.
Recommendation: All Systems Red seems to me the epitome of the best the genre has to offer, so whether your looking to get into sci-fi or are an established reader seeking your next good read, All Systems Red earned its spot as a staple in my recommendation arsenal.Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.NikiHawkes.com Other books you might like:
I just found out that Ms. Wells has sold a total of four (count em (4)) novellas in the Murderbot series with the second titled "Artificial Condition" (16.99 for a hardcover and 9.99 for the kindle) to appear somewhere near the beginning of 2018 and upon a bit of research found the the book here at GR -> https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3...?Book 3 is scheduled to be a hardcover titled "Rogue Protocol" (The Murderbot Diaries #3) found here --> https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3...and also priced at 16.99 (for 160 pages) print and ten bucks for the kindle.
“I could have become a mass murderer after I hacked my governor module, but then I realized I could access the combined feed of entertainment channels carried on the company satellites. It had been well over 35,000 hours or so since then, with still not much murdering, but probably, I don't know, a little under 35,00 hours of movies, serials, books, plays, and music consumed. As a heartless killing machine, I was a terrible failure.”  These novellas are a story of what it means to be human, an
It had been well over 35,000 hours or so since then, with still not much murdering, but probably, I don't know, a little under 35,00 hours of movies, serials, books, plays, and music consumed.
Murderbot lives in a world where it cannot be considered fully human, and as a result, it shuts itself off from other humans and tries to avoid group dynamics altogether.
And as a result, I love the character of Murderbot so much and I’m going to rant about this.
Something I like about this series is that Murderbot is written as a powerful killing machine and actually...
He (I'm using "he" although Murderbot doesn't have a gender) is part human/part robot and is really very much like April Ludgate on Parks and Rec, or maybe a honey badger, because Murderbot just don't give a shit.Murderbot must also be American, and possibly a teenager because he also does the bare minimum possible when it comes to his job.
...all they had was Murderbot, who just wanted everyone to shut up and leave it alone so it could watch the entertainment feed all day..
If by "entertainment feed", it means that it wants to hang out on the internet when it's not reading or binge-watching Netflix, I think they may have cloned me to make Murderbot.
The Murderbot novella series had crossed my path a time or two before I finally picked it up, but it was the glowing recommendation from my book buddy TS & the convenient timing of an Audible Daily Deal that pushed my curiosity over the edge!
This was such an adorable story, which is ironic since the name of the series is Murderbot.
But despite Murderbot's name for itself, it's actually a rather hilarious & relatable individual.
I'll definitely be continuing on, as I'm intrigued to see what more is in store for Murderbot!
Murderbot, who repeatedly says that she'd rather be netflixing, is surprisingly relatable.
One of my favorite parts is when Murderbot is faced with the prospect of spending time with people and is (understandably) horrified.
She can't control her facial reaction which in turn makes the human crew she's assigned to uncomfortable to know that they're making Murderbot uncomfortable (and that she has feelings as human as any of them).
For some reason I naturally thought of Murderbot as being female and I'm not sure why, maybe because the author is female?Posted in Mr. Philip's Library
I had seen that it was the first installment in something called The Murderbot Diaries and that it focused on a self-aware AI.
This AI is known as a Security Unit (Murderbot is the name it gives itself).
However, even as it becomes more aware of who it is, it sees itself as something of a failure.
Rather than following protocols, it prefers binge-watching a science fiction soap opera called Sanctuary Moon.
This first in the series story focuses on Murderbot’s protection of a group of scientists…Lots of fun, but not all of it is of the mayhem and murder variety!
It is snarky and witty and surprisingly well-rounded.Our main character and point of view is Murderbot, as it likes to call itself.
Its arc was (mostly) believable and I loved seeing the world from its point of view.
(Aside: I was picturing Murderbot as female and kept thinking of it as such until I read reviews… and realized it is never called thus; the humans in this book refer to Murderbot as it, and so does it itself.
If you have read the novella, please do let me know whether you thought of Murderbot as female or male.
Featured in my rundown of the best short SFF for Spring 2017: https://1000yearplan.com/2017/12/13/l...The difficulty of reconciling one’s private self with one’s public façade produces a multitude of anxieties that manifest in different ways.
For the self-styled Murderbot of Martha Wells "All Systems Red", a SecUnit (security robot) who lacks the full autonomy the privileged class (in this case, humans) enjoy, the coveting of its private self is not just a way to stay sane, but a way to remain alive and employed.
It doesn’t, though, because like most of us it just wants to watch tv serials and not be hunted down and destroyed by angry humans who don’t want to be murdered.
Murderbot doesn't want to murder anyone.Murderbot just wants to be free.Free to binge-watch soap operas.Is that too much to ask?
As a heartless killing machine, I was a terrible failure.That was the hook that drew me to Martha Wells's fantastic sci-fi novella All Systems Red. It was everything an AI sci-fi story should be and then some!
It was thought provoking but also entertaining and engaging.In a future dominated by big corporations any new planetary exploratory teams need to be accompanied by a Company owned SecUnit android.
Its mission was to keep the humans on its team safe but that did not mean this socially anxious security android had to like them or want to spend any more time with them than it absolutely had to.
Magnificent. Tor.com continue to rock it with this fantastic tale of a self-hacked cyborg security unit with a gloriously bad attitude. It just wants to sit there downloading soaps but HEY HO SABOTAGE, PEOPLE TO SAVE, PEOPLE TO KILL. Terrific writing, lovely characterisation, very funny, and there will be more! Consider me glued.
I had intended to read the digital copy I have to see if there is actually any implied gender for Murderbot, but I haven't gotten around to it and here we are 6 months later, so it seems unlikely I ever will get around to it.
Six months later, here I am remembering this as a not-unpleasant read and something I would visit again, so 4 murdery-snark stars for Murderbot!
“You may have noticed that when I do manage to care, I’m a pessimist.”What a fantastic novella!
I’ve had Martha Wells on my tbr list for a long time and even downloaded one of her fantasy novels but have never felt like reading it.
The other day this came to my attention and thought maybe it would serve as an access story.
Murderbot is a Secbot, designed to guard and protect clients on missions.
Murderbot has a great personality and loves downloading soaps and other entertainment to keep itself occupied when bored ( which is a lot of the time!) and it really doesn’t much care about its job.
Murderbot is a part human (organic) and part machine being who works security for off-planet groups that do work and explore.
The humans they are working for (the bot has no gender) experience trouble (like murder and sabotage and stuff) and Murderbot must save the day.
So this was entertaining and a very quick read.
The reader is thrust into the world and must assume everything is happening and everything exists without backstory.
It's very "light" and the science fiction aspects are reader friendly.
I am curious enough to read the next one.
The story is told from the point of view of a rogue biomechanical security construct that calls itself murderbot.
I have to point out that murderbot is incredibly relatable to the average reader.
It's extremely introverted, needs alone time to recharge for social contact and mostly just wants to be left alone.
But it's also steadfast, loyal and at most times the most sensible and competent person in the room.
The character interactions with the survey team after they find out the murderbot's independence are brilliantly handled with humor and a wide range of emotional reactions from distrust to unwanted compassion.
Maybe 4.5* but I had to bump it to 5* because I was just so happy while reading it.2nd read: Loved it just as much the second time round!
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.“I remember every word ever said to me." That was a lie.
Who would want that?
How can I build a story around the other characters by using "the eyes" of the first-person narrator?
Could my hypothetical first-person narrator say something like "I'm choked with admiration for you!"?
I think so.
A bit creepy to say otherwise, I would think, unless you walk around with porn goggles on.
If you're into SF, read on.
I had heard all sorts of wonderful things about All Systems Red before I picked it up (I have a lot of Goodreads friends who know their stuff when it comes to sci-fi! Yes, I'm looking at you, Caro M.) Now I trust their recommendations even more, because this book is easily my best February read. You can read the post with better formatting here on my blog. 5 Reasons To Read All Systems Red "Murderbot" is a jailbroken security android (cyborg? Well, you know.) Basically, SecUnits (as they're call
Murderbot though, a name it has sarcastically given itself (and will be henceforth referred to as 'them' in this review), have jailbroken themselves and would rather just watch hours and hours of sci-fi soaps than interact with humans, who actually give them anxiety fits.
Murderbot comes across as an incredibly introverted personality who is empathetic like any other human being
For any Doctor Who fans, this book is like a good episode from the Tennant days – a hostile planet pretending to be neutral, and things slowly get worse and worse and he crew has to figure out what is up.
I enjoyed the inner monologues and pessimistic outlook a lot more than I expected, becuase a snarky but witty robot is always something worth reading about.This is the story of a team on a new planet who are conducting research but whilst they are there they are interrupted by an attack and Murderbot has to rescue some of them.
Quickly it comes to light that the attack may not have just been chance, and we follow the team as they try (with Murderbot's help) to uncover what really went on and who is acting against them...I found this a fun and quick read with some great twists and ideas.
Snarky robots are like catnip to me. Turns out Martha Wells is pretty funny.
The audio read by Kevin R.
He captured Murderbot's personality almost exactly how I had imagined it.* * * * *Rereading via audio to prepare for Artificial Condition.It's been just a year, but I'm already having trouble recalling the details of this story.
* * * * *Release date set for May 2.Cover reveal and except at http://www.barnesandnoble.com/blog/sc...* * * * *If you've just found Martha Wells and want to read more of her work but don't know where to start, Tor.com has a great blog post that details her whole body of work over the years: https://www.tor.com/2018/04/16/where-...
First review of 2018!! Happy New Year!So this little story, what a WINNER!! I fell in love with the Murderbot SecUnit the 2nd time I sat down to read the tale. I finished it in just 3 short bursts. He comes across as so wonderfully detached and such a perfect misanthrope, that he felt wonderfully human to me. Yet with that brilliant edge, one that made this whole story so much fun to read. Cannot wait for the next installments from Wells! Hope you all get to read this novella. Have a wonderful new year. Happy 2018!
