https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1787900.The_Holiest_of_All
As wonderful a person as Andrew Murray was, I struggled a lot to read this book.
I was often left wondering what he meant or how I was supposed to implement what he said.
He seemed to have been very excited when he wrote the book but I can't say that I was very excited when I read it.
The only chapter I will probably remember is the last one, because it infers that Paul might be the author of Hebrews.
I know a lot of people will probably love this book, but everyone is not the same.
Take steps forward in your life with the words of "Holiest of All." One of my favorite passages in this book is Murray's eloquence in explaining how as Christians we see and view Christ as only our Aaron (earthly and finite priest who intercedes for us) but not as our Melchizedek (eternal priesthood who intercedes for us and brings us into eternity with Him).
The more we consider and adore our blessed King-Priest, our Melchizedek, the stronger will our confidence become that from His throne in heaven He will, in divine power, Himself apply to us all the blessed fruits of His atonement, and make a life in God's presence and nearness our daily experience.”Amen!
I really struggled with the rating for this book.
The tome (552 pages) has a whole lot of gems, but you have to dig a mine to get to them.
For some reason the author felt that each couple of verses from the book of Hebrews deserved four pages of commentary.
At times that made for very tough and dry reading.
There are lots of other excellent books by Andrew Murray where the gem content is much denser.
I suggest attempting this one only after reading at least With Christ in the School of Prayer, Absolute Surrender, Humility, the Master's Indwelling, the True Vine, and Confession and Forgiveness, if you have run out of things to read.
This is a commentary for the book of Hebrews. No one knows the spirit and context of Hebrews like Murray. Most American Theologians are stuck in the formula of translation without any real consideration for the heart of God or Christ in the text, nor the culture. Murray is very insightful and a wonderful resource.
Another excellent book by Andrew Murray. In my opinion this is one of his best. It is a devotional journey through the book of Hebrews. Murray plumbs the depths of the book and never fails to draw out deep lessons from this deep book. It is well worth the time using it as a devotion and allowing God to take you deeper in relationship with Him in the process. I will read this book again and again.
In Andrew Murray style this is a spiritual and devotional reading of Hebrews. Not exegetically sophisticated but useful for embracing the message of the book.
Deep and insightful, Murray has written a devotional commentary on the book of Hebrews. Inspirational and profound at times, this is a book to be read and reread.
Awesome insight into the book of Hebrews! I would have loved to hear Andrew preach!
Good Hebrews commentary if you are looking for a more applicational approach. Heck, you don't even have to be studying Hebrews to benefit from it!
A must have when studying the book of Hebrews!
An amazing commentary through the book of Hebrews. I read it first at Bible College and was enlightened.
