https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48134.Menagerie_Manor
Durrell is a self-deprecating, kindly and often hilarious writer, whose love for animals shines throughout this book.
The book is dated though.
Would conscientious zoo owners now buy from disreputable animal dealers, or try and raise money on the sort of flying-by-the-seat-of-his-pants basis that he did?
I also wondered about the size of the cages in his zoo and levels of stimulation provided for the animals.
But then the book was written in 1964, and I think a lot of zoo practices have changed since then.
In spite of my reservations, the warmth and humour of Durrell's writing make this a good read, and we get to meet some wonderful animals.
A lifelong animal freak, this book is about the zoo he set up on the grounds of an old manor house (Jersey Zoological Park) in the Channel Islands, with the help of his wife, his mum, his staff and many very tolerant neighbours.While by no means a work that puts any strain on the old brain cells, the book is nonetheless very enjoyable and contains lots of cute animal stories – I liked the one about the fat skunk, and another one about a young lion who decided he needed to learn how to roar but had to practice quietly in the back of his cage for a long time before showing it off.
I did feel sorry for all the mice that inevitably were fed to various reptiles, and occasionally wondered how good the living conditions for the animals really were (the book was written in the 1960s), but it is still a very “feel-good” book.
I'd say that reading Durell is a pure joy. Him narrating am otherwise serious issue like a snake in your bedroom also makes you laugh because of his exceptional story telling skills. Now imagine him talking about animals, and his zoo and how he acquired each animal and the escapades of those animals. I chuckled and laughed out loud in many places and thoroughly enjoyed the book!
very amusing and entertaining. will definitely be reading more of his books.
Like all of Gerald Durrell's books that I have read, this was a fun and fast read.
This book talks about some of the animals that have made some lasting memories for Gerald during the first five years of his zoo, that he opened up on the Island of Jersey.
There are some hilarious stories about animals escaping from their cages to some heart warming stories like, Topsy, a woolly monkey.
I can't wait to dive into another Gerald Durrell book sometime soon.
It has been years since I've read anything by Durrell, and this book has brought back the enjoyment I had when I was a teenager and reading such gems as Birds, Beasts, and Relatives - which sadly I have lost from my shelves.
In Menagerie Manor, Durrell recounts the efforts, good times, and bad times, experienced while setting up his Zoo in Jersey.
The plight of the two baby orangutans he discovered in Holland makes you sad, and through his writing, you can share the joy of their rehabilitation.Gerald Durrell was a special human being, and his writing will fire you with the zeal of animal conservation - a project we should all be involved in.
More of Durrell’s tales about animals, this time centered around the zoo in Jersey. Acquiring and caring for animals gives more charming, informative and sometimes strikingly funny episodes. Durrell’s prose style is as usual chronologically vague, with little structure --- the book is really just a series of vignettes. Durrell’s fatuous personality comes through again, but not so much, and his trials and errors with the care of animals are understandable, considering his position as a pioneer in the field.
Having grown up on Gerald Durrell's books, it was an absolute delight to re-read Menagerie Manor - I think, for the third or fourth time. A series of often hysterical anecdotes from the first few years in the life of Durrell's Jersey zoo, the pages trip through the fingers, many of them adorned with wonderful drawings. Durrell himself is as fascinating as his stories although, fifty years on, it's inevitable parts have dated. Nevertheless, a joy from start to finish. I'm so pleased Bello books has reprinted the series.
25) - Make good choices, I constantly said/screamed at the animals in my care."I have been, at one time or another, bored by so many snake complex admissions that as soon as the subject of reptiles crops up in conversations with anyone, I want to run away and hide.
This makes life very difficult, for every zoo, no matter how well-fed or cared-for are it's animals, has its dismal list of casualties." (pg.
Zoos are for breeding animals and teaching people about how they can take part in saving species from suffering and extinction.
Anyone who has read "My Family and Other Animals" (the first book of the Corfu trilogy) or watched the PBS series "The Durrells in Confu" has laughed at the antics of young Gerald Durrell and his eccentric family.
It's on the Isle of Jersey (off the southern coast of Britain) and there are plenty of amusing stories about the animal residents.
It certainly wasn't as laugh out loud funny as the Corfu trilogy, because while the animals could certainly cause problems, none were as infuriating as Durrell's siblings!
I did learn a lot about animals, and Durrell's passion for preserving and protecting wildlife shines thru on every page.
Durrell writes about the zoo he established on the isle of Jersey in the Channel Islands in an old manor house. This book is more about what it's like to run a zoo and he tells a lot of interesting (and sometimes funny) stories. Over time he turned his zoo into a wildlife preserve for protecting and breeding rare animals and established a wildlife conservation organization that is still active today. An interesting book for Durrell fans and animal lovers.
Although the stories of the animals are appalling by today's standards, Gerald Durrell is still an amazing storyteller with his heart in the right place. Durrell and his family open a zoo on the Jersey Island where they are committed to procuring endangered species and (hopefully) breeding them into non-extinction. Animals are adorable, humans are clueless and all works out well in the end.
With his unfailing charm, Durrell tells the story of how he finally fulfilled his childhood dream of founding his own private zoo, the Manor of Les Augres, on the English Channel island of Jersey. With the help of an enduring wife, a selfless staff, and a reluctant bank manager, the zoo grows, and readers are treated to a colorful parade of the zoo's unusual animal inhabitants.
Another fast and thoroughly enjoyable read by Durrell. This chronicles his establishment of his Jersey Zoo in 1959 for the purpose of conserving endangered animals. His storytelling is humorous as well as informational.
Lovely, heartwarming ❤️
EndearingDurrell has tales to tell about his animals and tells them in a most descriptive way. This is the second of his books which I have read.
Really enjoyed this, probability enhanced by reading it while staying at Jersey Zoo. The zoo has pictures of all the characters, including a picture of Trumpy.
I really enjoyed this book. It was very funny and full of lovely animal stories from a very knowledgeable man.
WONDERFUL I want to travel to Jersey and the Zoo.
Delightful.
This was a good book. I read My Family and Other Animals in High school and loved it. I think Mr. Durrell could write about absolutely anything and make it interesting and amusing.
Very dated, obviously, but quite charming
It provided an account of setting up of the Jersey Zoological Park in the UK and more specifically, how he acquired various animals and got them used to the life in a zoo.
So, it's natural that there would be many unusual animals in his collection: other than baboons, gorillas and snakes, I hadn't heard of many like Mastigure (reptile), Tapir (a dog like mammal), Fernand's Skinks (lizard), Coatimundis (also like dogs), Piccaries (pig like mammals), Binturong and more.
I didn't see any relation between the letter and that chapter but it'd reinforce the reality of Durrell's joys or travails.
Don't read it at one a.m when you're supposed to be in bed.
Don't read it in the computer lab during class.Cause if you burst out in laugh blame it on the writer.
And I'm sure that the author means well, and I know that it was written a long time ago and that veterinary medicine, conservation, and animal science have progressed significantly since then.
And while he loves the animals, he seems to lack any respect for them, repeatedly referring to them as ugly and stupid, and talking about how, when they're difficult, he wants to "gleefully choke them." And I can't get past the fact that, although he has no veterinary training, he repeatedly "experiments" (his own words) on the animals in his care, attempting random cures for their ailments and often losing several before asking the aid of any medical professionals.I'm glad I read it, if only to remind myself of how far zoo medicine and animal welfare have come since 1964.
I decided to read this book because my dad had read another book from this series to me when i was young and i really enjoyed it.
I have also read others of the series and thought this one would be just as good as the rest.
I was learning the whole way through this book, it is filled with many different animal personalities and so i was learning the whole way through.
Their were many different characters and personalities in this book, from Trumpy, the grey winged trumpeteer who meets every new animal that arrives to Leo the lion who wears buckets on his head.
From an early age Durrell was fascinated with nature.
He grew up (although it is amazing he survived childhood) to be a leading conservationist and the founder of a zoo on the Isle of Jersey.
His love of the animal kingdom caused all kinds of havoc in family life and in his zoo.
Durrell is an amazing man; he brought passion and care to saving endangered species and trying to give zoo animals more dignified and enriched lives.
Gerald Durrell’s books are full of observations on natural life, hilarious stories, and are great fun to read.
Skvělá, vtipná a milá knížka. Durrella omrzelo chytat a vozit zvířata do zoologických zahrad, proto se rozhodl pořídit si zoo vlastní. Místo aby si ale nejprve pořídil prostory a až pak zvířata, rozhodl se pro opačný postup. Kterak shání a loví zvířata se můžete dočíst v předchozí knize  Zoo v kufru  (není ale nutné číst to ve správném pořadí). V Zoo na zámku tedy už má zvířata a konečně se mu podaří sehnat i prostory, takže příhody jsou ve většině již z jeho vlastní zoo. Jsou psány mile, vtipně
Durrella omrzelo chytat a vozit zvířata do zoologických zahrad, proto se rozhodl pořídit si zoo vlastní.
Místo aby si ale nejprve pořídil prostory a až pak zvířata, rozhodl se pro opačný postup.
Zoo v kufru
(není ale nutné číst to ve správném pořadí).
V Zoo na zámku tedy už má zvířata a konečně se mu podaří sehnat i prostory, takže příhody jsou ve většině již z jeho vlastní zoo.
Jsou psány mile, vtipně a ještě se člověk dozví nějaké zajímavosti o exotických zvířatech a jejich chovu, což teda možná zní spíš nudně, ale mě to fakt strašně bavilo.
First published in 1964 so a much earlier book than The Aye-Aye And I.
Overturning the stereotype of a zoo as a place of captivity in which animals are kept in appalling conditions, a zoo ahead of its time.
Whilst for me this doesn't begin to compare with his earliest books it is still full of a wit and a wonderful attention to detail, made even better by the use of pen and ink illustrations, that readers of Durrell's books have come to expect.Copyright: Tracy Terry @ Pen and Paper.

