https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34492.Wintersmith
Turning the fairytale villain into the shamans of the mountain towns had that vibe of lazy irony (I'm looking squarely at you, Wicked the Musical), but being Pratchett, he made a good story out of it just the same.The reason the witch books never grabbed me had a lot to do with the main characters.
Nanny Ogg isn't much better, though her character is amusing.Through the earlier books Pratchett tried more than one third witch (because that how it works, Macbeth style), but he never seemed satisfied enough with the dynamic to keep using it.The fact that three Tiffany Aching stories have already been written indicate something that's clearly working for him, and I personally think it's some of his best writing to date.Tiffany is a pretty astute choice in protagonist.
She and the goddess have (to an extent) merged, and now the god of snow and ice is obsessed with her.As the lovesick Wintersmith scatters unseasonable snow across the land and wonders why this strange human girl flees his advances, Tiffany struggles to reconcile her sense of duty, which commands her to drive him away and save the farms, with her newly awakened curiosity about this awkward, clueless creature who is blizzard and boy in one.
This book showcases a milestone for Tiffany and expands the world of the stories, bringing in gods and goddesses and seasonal change.
A very original Discworld story, this one the third in the Tiffany Aching sub-series.First published in 2006 and the 35th in the Discworld bibliography, Terry Pratchett describes Tiffany as a young witch still in training but coming into herself and setting her sights on the kind of witch she will be (and not always in serviceable black.) As in others in this sub-series, the juxtaposition between Tiffany and the other witches (particularly Granny Weatherwax) makes this fun.
Sir Terry’s Wee Free Men are again on riotous display and their antics make up the lions share of pings on the Pratchett-smile-O-meter.This time around Tiffany has an encounter with the Wintersmith, a kind of spirit of winter or an elemental.
At the very threshold when learning usually gets whacked by pride and goes into hiding, until much, much later.) Or take Tiffany's observations about common folks, which can be unflattering at times (wizened, she muses at one point, isn't the same as wise; it might just mean you've been stupid for a very long time)--yet do not prevent her from getting to know people better and caring for them, in ways that make sense to them.
The third book involving Tiffany Aching and the Nac Mac Feegles -- the one where Tiffany dances with the Wintersmith and gets herself into the middle of the ancient romance of summer and winter.I love the witches, and I love the Feegles, and I love Tiffany, and it's always a pleasure to spend time with them.
The most critical problem I have is that I didn't understand Tiffany getting involved in the dance in the first place.
В никакъв случай не описва защо всъщност обичате, няма думи за това.Понякога се питам как така някой писател сякаш надниква в душата ти, изсмуква всичкото ти внимание и то остава негово.
Това, което мен ме е накарало да заобичам Тери Пратчет (освен безжалостния хумор, който просто няма как да подминеш, дори да си пълно дърво), е начинът, по който пише този човек.
Малките откровения, които ти предлага винаги, дори всред най-смешните ситуации, сред най-глуповатите реплики от страна на някой персонаж, неочаквани, истински – като самия живот.
Друго, което много ме впечатлява – когато Тери Пратчет прави заемки от някоя митология или религия, той винаги ти дава да разбереш това.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my LOCUS Y-A list.I think I’ll always have a soft-spot for imaginative young-adult speculative fiction and as the good people at Locus did such a grand job with picking their Sci-Fi winners, I’ll trust them to single out some special y-a books too.I remember r
This book falls into my LOCUS Y-A list.I think I’ll always have a soft-spot for imaginative young-adult speculative fiction and as the good people at Locus did such a grand job with picking their Sci-Fi winners, I’ll trust them to single out some special y-a books too.I remember reading 
I don’t know if I had other things on my mind, or read it when I wasn’t sleeping well, or if I was just drunk – but the book didn’t stick.
But it’s the third in the series – surely I should read book two (
She wears black, has a predominantly black house full of cobwebs and strikes fear in to the hearts of those she helps.Whilst Tiffany may be older, she's also now a teenager, which brings with it all sorts of complications, not in the least doing what she wants instead of what she's been told.
Teenage embarrassment doesn't go far enough.Reading through the Tiffany Aching series, it's clear to see that what puts me off to some extent is the amount of the book taken up by the Nac Mac Feegles.
Wintersmith is the third book in the Tiffany Aching subseries of Discworld.
In this book, Tiffany has made a mistake that has put not only herself but also everybody she knows, and a whole bunch of people she doesn’t know, in danger.
There really isn’t too much I can say about this book that I haven’t already said about the previous two.
In this book, two of my favorite characters from previous books got a decent amount of page time, so I was especially happy about that.
(view spoiler)[And how could anybody not love the idea of Granny Weatherwax with a little, white kitten?
(hide spoiler)]
Another case of feeling whatever I could write in praise of this would be insufficient, so I'll just be brief in my Pratchett-worship.
What it really takes to be a witch is the same thing it takes to be a responsible human being of any type--it's just the various embellishments that change people's perceptions.
Rob Anybody and the other Feegles are more delightful every time I see them; I love the way Pratchett renders their accents.
If you're not reading Terry Pratchett, you're missing out.I just have one complaint about the cover of this book and of the others in this mini-series: Feegles are not purple; they're blue!
stories of magic, where seasons have personalities and can become ...
This is the case of the Wintersmith, when young witch Tiffany Aching leaps into the midst of the winter dance and takes the place of Summer.
Wintersmith is captivated by her and wants to become human so as to be with her.
They are simple but sweet, profound yet funny, and full of unforgettable characters -- in this case, a witch who digs her own grave (literally).
Tiffany is a delightful heroine -- sweet, sincere, intelligent, and kind, with an unusual amount of insight into The World.As for the rest?
Terry Pratchett was a treasure and has allowed me so so many hours of pleasure, laughing my way through book after book.
I have read quite a few of his books more than once and enjoyed them each and ever time.
This book was such an awesome take on the sort of myth that has been around jsut about forever.
Told this time in Mr. Pratchett's unique iconic style.
Reading it was a rollercosater ride of thrills and fun and one I am sure I will enjoy again and again in the future!
If she doesnt figure out a way to deal with him there will never be spring again, however she gets the help of the Nac Mac Feegles (whether she wants it or not!), they are determined to help her out.
Terry Pratchett describes the characters in such great detail that you feel like they are actually real, the Nac Mac Feegles are so funny they will definately have you laughing!
The way he describes the setting of the world they are in makes you feel like you are there with them, like it is a real place.
It has great depth too it, it is a really good book to read and got lost it.
There was no reason for Miss Treason not to tell Tiffany what the dance was at the start.
Miss Treason was stubborn about not telling her what was going on, whereas through the rest of the story she was pretty forthcoming with information, and I found that a little disingenous on the part of the author.(Another quibble: I disliked the music they played briefly throughout the audiobook.
In this story, however, she's woven into the fabric of the witching community, and she both gives strength to and derives strength from the other witches so it's not coming all from within herself.The scene with the chickens and the cornucopia is probably the funniest scene in all three books to this point.
I read this a long time ago, but not as long ago as I read all the preceding Pratchetts.
I do love the cover of this book though and admire the person who came up with the genius money spinning idea of printing kids books with adults covers in order to instill some sort of adult gravitas on the reader and make them feel less ashamed to read kiderature rather than literature in a public place like on the bus or the tube.
Well done corporate money spinning monkey - you provided the world with a great service.
The wee Big Hag and feagles!
Tiffany is now almost 13 and it is time for her to learn how to use her special abilities in the world as she finds herself in the house of Miss Treason who will guide her in her lessons.
She will need all the help she can get from her friends; the witches and witches in training, Granny Weatherwax and the fierce, fighting, blue-tattooed Scottish pictsies, known as the Nac Mac Feegle, as she tries to escape the attention of the Wintersmith.
His skill at bringing the Nac Mac Feegle to life will have you laughing so hard you’ll cry and you will be hooked.
This is my favorite title of the four Pratchett's I have read! Now if anyone asks me where to start reading the series, I will say with the Tiffany Aching arc. This is very YA readership friendly, too. I buddy read this with Annemieke from A DANCE WITH BOOKS, and we are already planning on buddy reading I Shall Wear Midnight next month. We have to get our Tiffany fix!
:D Lol At the same time the story firmly puts us in the shoes of Tiffany as she juggles everything that is going on as well as getting the other young witches as they are forced to help out Annagramma following her taking on a cottage and getting her face porcine patient stuck up a tree!
:DWintersmith is a real Rollercoaster of a ride which set things up for future adventures as well as setting Tiffany and various characters into new positions and is full of breakneck adventure and heroics and ends with Feegles taking on the most Heroic thing they can come up with and and a very funny note at the end!
I figure I'll start small with this book.I had real difficulty getting into the story -- I didn't like the tone of the combined narrative voice/Tiffany's thoughts very much (it felt sort of simultaneously dumbed-down and punched-up for the YA market, and I missed the usual sarcastic undercutting tone of the footnotes).
I did like the points made in other good reviews, that the Tiffany books are largely about responsibility, that Granny tests Tiffany possibly as a successor, and there are many and varied older female characters.
I remember very much enjoying this book <3

Wonderful, funny, and so informative! Are you aware that Limbo was called that because the door was so low?
You have won my heart, Sir Terry Pratchett. This has got to be one of the funniest and most delightful fantasy series ever. Tiffany Aching is such a strong and lovable female protagonist, and I can't wait to explore more of her world!
I enjoyed Wintersmith, the third book in the Tiffany Aching series immensely.
Thanks to Tiffany, I now have these handy tips in the future.“You know how to prepare placebo root, do you?” “Of course.
Every one knows that.”I learned instead of asking them to show you, which would result in them pretending to be tired or calling in for “having a bad day”, this is what you should do:“Good, watch me and see if I’m doing it right.”My Coworker Annagramma would then say “Of course.”Pratchett had this spot on.
Granny Weatherwax is unrivalled in her awesomeness.Tiffany gets in a jam after she steps in and dances with the Wintersmith.
It took me...3 years to read this book, lol. But that's because it's the sort of book one can enjoy page by page - you can read it slowly. It's funny and ridiculous and deep and wonderful. I love all these characters so much! <3

I love this series so much I'm not sure I could even write a coherent review about it!
And Megs, the heroine of the book, clearly didn't know a thing about farming.
Standing around with lips like cherries wouldn't get the cows milked or the sheep sheared!And that was another thing.
Boddice know anything about sheep?
The second most important occasion in a sheep farm's year and it wasn't worth mentioning?Of course, they might have a breed like Habbakuk Polls or Lowland Cobbleworths that didn't need shearing, but these were rare and any sensible author would surely have mentioned it.And these scene in chapter five, where Megs left the sheep to fend for themselves while she went gathering nuts with Roger .
Having read the final Tiffany Aching story I realised that among the Discworld books I'd missed were the earlier Tiffany Aching stories so I decided to start putting that right.
Pratchett's sense of humans and the way they behave is so well worked into these tales that they are great reads for me.
Of course it is "good v bad" although this being Discworld some of these borders are a little doubtful however it is the minutiae of life that make the reading so good.
I'll read the remaining ones when I get the time.
