https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11986.Camus
Not a bad collection of essays analyzing The Stranger.
Unlike most Marxist intellectual-types, Albert Camus was not a failed bourgeois (like the Messiah himself; Karl Marx), but someone from the actual working class who experienced much pain throughout his life (his death in a car wreck being the crowning moment of his life of tragedy).
Camus rejected the Marxism violence promoted by Jean Paul Sartre (the fellow that was influenced by that evil Nazi Martin Heidegger, often considered the greatest philosopher of the last century) and seemed at odds with his fellow "intellectual proletarians." The book essentially does a good job clarifying the real-life/political views of Albert Camus in context with The Stranger.
Camus helped to teach them [later French authors] that characters should not be rounded, that language is only occasionally accurate, and that the work of art should contain its own explicit negation.McCarthy’s biography is solid reading, and exhibits a sense of respect for the man and his oeuvre while never erring on the side of reverence.
She emerges as a fascinating figure in her own right, and I’ll be searching out the memoirs he references.[image error]Jean Louis Barrault, Maria Casarès and Albert Camus in L'Etat de Siège by Albert Camus, directed by Jean Louis Barrault, Paris, 1948After breaking it off with her after the Liberation, with the imminent arrival in Paris of his second wife, Camus comes across her on the Boulevard Saint-Germain in June ’48, and he insists that ‘between the all and the nothing there was ...
Obviously well researched, this shed unfiltered light on Camus as well as the political and social landscapes of his time.
Damn, I love that phrase.The author is quite conversant with absurdism and existentialism, so the full meanings and implications of Camus' writings were explained.....and will be forgotten.The passage was stupendous:Camus, who was an excellent theologian, repeats that, whereas innocence is a unity, guilt is a form of division which leaves man without any core of character, makes him subservient to others, and forces him to realize that he is an "other" to himself.Learning that Camus could also hold a grudge?
Priceless!
Mr. McCarthy's biography of Camus employs a particular irony well suited to his subject: Camus the saint, Camus the resistance leader, Camus the existentialist and Camus the committed leftist are all debunked, leaving in their place something much more compelling and likeable: Camus the human.Mr. McCarthy's work is almost more of a sourcebook than a biography, containing lengthy discourses on the colonial history of Algeria and the war for Algerian Independence, interwar literary criticism, the interminable details of continental leftist politics, and French theater in addition to the typical "places, times and motives" of the average biography.Camus is presented quite nearly as one of his protagonists, a man of passion without conviction, whose lust for action is stymied by a complete and existential disaffection.
A few years before I read the biography of Camus, I had lived in Port-aux-Poules, Algeria, along the coast very near to Arzew and Oran.
So when I learned that Camus was of these people I read the story of his life, having considered already that his L'etranger was one of the best books I had ever read, to learn how he had become an existentialist (his word I believe).
Algeria provides that backdrop where one who does not come from its native soil, can exist there only as an existentialist.
This book was a good introduction to Existentialism.
This book appealed greatly to my 17 year old nihilistic self. There is no meaning but that which we can hear, touch, see, smell, or taste. The protagonist can be understood as a mirror to the reader, as he himself expresses very few emotions, and is mostly described in terms of physical sensations, reinforcing the message of the novel.
i realize this is the study guide... i realize. however, i liked the book... it brings a sense of distance and fury. the character can only feel the moment and he can't explain what that moment is. he gets damned for it. shit.
4.5/5Actually, i've read this before, but thought i hadn't finished it. Turns out i did. In any case, an amusing work.
Absurd.
This is an amazing book. One of my favorites!
he felt no pitty .no pitty for losing his girlfriend,her dead lonely mum ,no pity for life ... being numb
Read this junior year of high school and then again this past year. I was not exposed to much when younger, and thought this was crazy in high school. Now it is just interesting. I enjoyed it.
one of my all time favorites
