https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338325.The_High_Crusade
Also I cannot help but compare and contrast this story with Mark Twain’s A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (from which it must have gained inspiration) and to Eifelheim, Michael Flynn’s 2006 novel (which may have gained inspiration from The High Crusade).
This book also has a similarity with Asimov’s Foundation (first published in 1951) series, though nowhere near its scope.An energetic, light and entertaining adventure story, very original in its design, well written and smoothly paced; Anderson has also crafted a subtle examination of diplomacy and war, while satirizing human nature as it is used in a metaphor by an alien race!
The easiness with which Sir Roger springs complicated politics and clever intrigues onto the unsuspecting aliens already baffled by the confusing nature of these 'Englishmen' fighting force shields with smile cutting weapons, bragging of what seems to be centuries of space explorations and tales of amazing genetic engineering with all their 'highborn' talk, and strange rituals that seem to give them strength and power.
The aliens landed in Medieval times and were ready for an easy conquest of a backward world...till the knights rushed the ship and got inside and the aliens were defeated..and the ship lifted off in auto-pilot....The plot sounds a bit hokey but it made such a good story.
I think it could have made an ever better one, but my imagination took the original and ran with it.
Fun, enjoyable, imaginative, original (nothing like it then and only variations since).
While the plot may at first seem a slight eye roller (and Anderson does place his tongue in his cheek a bit here) within the story's own logic it works quite well.
In 1345 AD a huge spaceship lands in Ansby, a small village in Lincolnshire just as Sir Roger de Tourney illegal, an English Knight, was raising an army to fight a war with France.
Thinking that the "flying ship" will give them a huge advantage over the French Sir Roger orders Branithar to fly the ship to France, Branithar readily agrees but activates the pre-programmed autopilot to take them to the nearest Wersgor colony instead.In spite of the rather farcical premise the book is very enjoyable, it is more humorous than the other Anderson novels I have read (well, I have not read that many of them).
You may find that the idea that a bunch of medieval Brits resisting and conquering alien races with vastly superior technology ridiculous.
I love Poul Anderson.
It amazes me that he can write such masterful and complex works as The Broken Sword and something as silly and fun as The High Crusade, and make both equally enjoyable to me.
The basic premise of this book is medieval Englishmen from around the time of the crusades, in space, brazening it out and taking over the universe.
"His declensions are atrocious, and what he does to irregular verbs may not be described in gentle company."Just, awesome.
Ridiculous, but awesome.
I’ve never read anything by Poul Anderson before, but I soon trusted him, the prose, the narrative structure and the setting premises themselves make the whole adventure sound plausible.The story is truly humorous, original, absurd and full of boldness, bravado and deceit, centered around a space jacquerie uprising led by a medieval noble knight.
As the British learn more about what they have conquered, Sir Roger hatches a plan to use the spaceship to quickly subdue France, then use it to fight in the ongoing Crusades in the Holy Land.
Ultimately, a book of this sort succeeds or fails based on it’s sheer entertainment value, and I will admit that I was pretty entertained by “The High Crusade.” It’s a well-deserved and time-honored science-fiction classic authored by a SFWA Grand Master, and I think you’d do well to add this to your shelf.
I had to admit this was even better to throw nor a dead horse.”--------------------------------------------------------------------------------Sir Roger grinned all over his face.
Re-read with my sisters January 18, 2017. SO GOOD, PEOPLE <3 <3 <3(For more on why you really ought to read this joyous book, see my full review!)--Read August 27, 2016.THIS BOOKOH MYKNIGHTS VS ALIENSALL THE LOVEALL THE LAUGHSALL THE HEARTSTRINGSFULL REVIEW MOST CERTAINLY TO COME
Sometimes, however, I'd retreat up the hundred-odd stairs in the wood alone to have the house to myself while the old ones talked and sunned themselves.I recall reading Anderson's The High Crusade on such a beautiful day--the folks on the beach, me alone in the bedroon shared with my eight-years younger brother, Fin, the afternoon and early evening sun pouring through the windows.
Anderson's little tale, however, is obscure, nothing I can remember ever hearing about or even talking about (though I bet I recommended it at some point back then).
Our narrator here is a monk; and while Anderson pokes gentle fun at some of the more superstitious aspects of medieval Catholicism ("How shall we observe Lent and Easter, with two moons morris-dancing about to confuse the issue?" a perplexed Brother Parvus cries), his treatment of basic Christian belief is actually very positive.
(Though my understanding is that he didn't profess any faith himself, some of his short fiction also exhibits an understanding of, and sympathy towards, Christian beliefs.)This was a book I read aloud to my wife, who enjoyed it as much as I did.
The English as a group are underdogs, but the main character, Sir Roger deTourneville, is too much of a super duper football hero.
The main villain in the story is not the tough, stubborn alien Branithar (who's actually a lot more sympathetic than the human characters) but a foolish knight who falls madly in love with Catherine and turns evil just to win her favor!
The main plot of this story is not the war with the aliens, but the love triangle between Sir Roger, Lady Catherine, and Welsh knight Sir Owain Montbelle.
The premise of this book made it an instabuy for me; a bunch of rough Hundred Years War era English dudes preparing to cross the channel and fuck up the French when this alien lands and starts being a total dick.
One of the most impressive things I can say about this book is that it's often not that ridiculous.
The brevity of the book was a good thing, as well.
Another great thing Anderson did for me was to inspire me to check out some contemporaries and generally get back into sci-fi after a bit of a hiatus, which is awesome.
In 1345, Sir Roger Baron de Tourneville repels blue-skinned aliens who land their ship in his pasture.
It's a witty sword and science adventure tale with tongue firmly in cheek, likable well-drawn characters and touches of romance in a smooth, light-hearted style.Anderson may have "better" novels, certainly more serious ones, but I think none that are more fun.
If you're interested in his fantasy, I loved both The Broken Sword and Three Hearts and Three Lions--high fantasy works that don't read like Tolkien retreads.
Among his science fiction novels I've read and loved by him are Harvest of Stars and its sequel, The Stars Are Also Fire.
How was this so much fun? Usually I don't even care for science fiction!In the year 1345, a band of aliens land a scout ship outside an English village, in a preliminary to conquering the planet. They aren't used to dealing with metal-wrapped madmen who are bold enough to shoot anything full of arrows and who consider themselves free men. They aren't used to dealing with people who don't know how to give up. It's lovely.Funny, exciting, human, a little touching, endlessly interesting and constantly taking me by surprise.And dear Mr. Anderson got the medievals right!
Wonderful blend of sci-fi and mediaeval history. Completely plausible response of real Knights to alien invasion. A really fun read.
Ако човек започне да чете книгата с нагласата за закачка може да се забавлява много. Предполагам, че ако тръгне да я чете с нагласата за класическа фантастика ще бъде разочарован :)
Divertente space opera medievale :)
This may be Poul Anderson's favorite character type, and here he appears as a Medieval lord called Sir Roger who, one day, finds himself having to defend his 14th century village from an alien invasion.
The book follows Roger's exploits and successes as, armed with audacity and deceit and not much else, he defeats an evil galactic Empire in order to set up a more benevolent Feudal system.
Of course, in order for Roger to succeed at this, Anderson needs to make the evil blue aliens dumb as a post, but never mind that.
It has a Monty Pythonish meets Black Adderishly flavored absurd plot; A scout-ship/UFO from Wersgorix, crash-lands in the fields of the bumbling Sir Roger Baron de Tourneville who is trying to raise an Army to head off to the Crusades to "kill Saracens and bring back a fortune in gold and silver." Mostly to bring back the fortune.de Tourneville is almost a stereotypical jock, more concerned with the sport of killing Saracens than in wooing his beloved.
The Baron, however, captures the alien and intends on using the ship to fly his army to the Holy Land and win Victory for Christianity.
The High Crusade is a riotous adventure story.A spaceship arrives in a medieval kingdom.
Instead of being paralyzed with surpris, the English Knights charge into the fray and take the battle to the aliens.
From here, the story escalates to one of increasingly lucky conquest.
Far more Pulp SF than Hard SF, I imagine a serialized audience becoming more incredulous with each weeks installment.The characters are mostly static, encountering a small difficulty then resolving it fairly soon.
The first chunk of the book had a religious subtext - was God among the aliens?
Aliens take an entire medevil village into space so they can study humankind.The local knight isn't thrilled with this arrangement and decides that he's going to find a way to take his people home no matter what. and Poul Anderson does it all in about 150 pages. Great story.
So what happens when you take a bunch of medieval knights and men-at-arms into space? They begin to conquer like any good nobleman would. Great SiFi book by one of the masters, very recommended
Yay book group!
One of the reasons I joined "my" sci-fi/fantasy book group is that I really wanted to connect with other readers of the fantastic.
It's a slim little thing, a pretty quick read, and very much fun.
The idea is pretty fun: aggressive aliens come to medieval England and find a lot more than they expected.
This almost made me knock it down to three stars.Am I glad to have been lent this little book?
That's what speculative fiction requires from its readers, after all.A fun little read.

What a blast! Aliens try to invade 14th c England and get more than they bargained for. The knights and serfs who steal their spaceship may also have bitten off a bit more than they can chew. But then again, maybe all that the oppressed intergalactic space-dwellers need is a bit of chivalry. My husband and I had so much fun reading this over a couple of evenings. Hilarious, exciting, and inspiring.
The velocity of the plot is remarkable. Within ten pages the invading aliens had been pummeled and the English were on their way to the stars, and from there on their way to conquest. Its later half reaches too far and too fast as Anderson hurries toward the endgame of a space empire modeled on European empire.
This was one of the most entertaining of Poul Anderson's novels I have read thus far. The idea of a bunch of Medieval English soldiers capturing an extraterrestrial spaceship, which they originally took to be some weapon of war by the French with whom they were currently at war with. From there the plot is allowed to get as wild as Anderson can imagine it.A wonderful book.
A wonderful space opera with a nice twist (especially for being written in 1960). What if aliens tried to conquer medieval England and the baron was too ignorant to not attack. And then he takes his crusade to another planet and finally to seize control of a galactic empire. The old English style gives the book lots of flavor. Lots of action but the ending was a little hard to get through.
Somewhat less fine than The Broken Sword or Three Hearts and Three Lions, but it was fun. A bit more humorous than the others, which may be why I didn't rate it as high.
Even now, fifty-eight years after its publication, "The High Crusade" still feels like a fresh idea, which is probably because it flies in the face of a lot of fictional orthodoxies.Any even remotely seasoned SF or even space opera reader can predict that when a village-load of fourteenth-century English folk are suddenly attacked by aliens and subsequently cast out into the wilds of the nether galaxy, that they will be cheerfully disabused of all their most cherished beliefs by a relentless steamroller of a narrative, which will show them forth as the hairy, filthy, repressive, racist, misogynist, monstrously violent un-progressive flat-earthers that we all know them to have been.
