https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1192.Everyday_Italian
I get that Giada is gorgeous.
But when I open a cookbook, I expect to see photos of, I don't know, the food described in the recipes maybe?
Instead it is: Giada stirring a pot of something.
Giada chopping something.
Giada's million-dollar smile as she juices a lemon.
SHOW ME WHAT THE PREPARED FOOD LOOKS LIKE!!Mostly this seemed not really my style.
I marked maybe three recipes I want to try.
But on the whole it seemed too simplified and too Italian-American...I don't mind going to some extra effort in the kitchen and I was looking for some authentic Italian recipes.
I do not like Rachel Ray, by the way, and don't get me started on lame-ass Sandra Lee. Crazy Ida will probably have a breakdown one day when that husband of hers who is never around finally leaves her, but she does know how to cook well though.
Anyway, Giada has it all: the perfect body, adoring husband, impeccable cooking skills, a winning personality, the most current Anthropologie wardrobe, and friends miraculously appear wherever she travels to on her weekends.And I actually do really like her as a Food Network chef.
They are what Italian cooking is all about...fresh and relatively simple ingredients prepared correctly to create something wonderful.
Giada makes her recipes so detailed that someone who knows almost nothing can make them.
Folks, proscuitto wrapped around roasted asparagus is not a recipe, its a nice suggestion. If you want nice, boring quasi-Italian suggestions, then by all means, by this book. On second thought, don't by this book, it sucks. Lidia's books have recipes and suggestions.
I love Giada de Laurentiis. She is a model chef, mother and wife and has the cutest style and her show "Everyday Italian."This cookbook is wonderful if you want to cook tradition Italian dishes. I love the tortellini in chicken broth.My one complaint in this book is that she doesn't bring anything contemporary into these dishes. I love anything traditional, but I wanted her cookbook to see a new twist on some of these everyday italian meals.I am very excited to try her desserts!!
I don't remember much about this book, but it taught me how to make risotto. For that I will ever be grateful.
Since I checked this out from the library, I only had time to make a few of the recipes, all of which were really good!
The recipes I did make were interesting: lots of fresh herbs and veggies!
And washing/rinsing and then chopping them the second I got home from the grocery store is a really good idea!
Plus, I love the simplicity of the recipes: I did have some trouble finding some of the fresh herbs at the grocery store, but thankfully it was really easy to substitute them with the ones I could find.
I love Giada.
I love Giada's books, I love Giada's recipes, I love Giada's show, I love how Giada says "crunchy," heck, I love Giada's clothes.I love basil, tomatoes, extra virgin olive oil (I needn't cutesy abbreviate here or the Food Network world might implode), parmesano reggiano, and I love basil some more.The recipes in Everyday Italian are fresh, simple(ish), and easily shopped-for.I only refrained from the final star because not everyone loves the fresh Italian palate all the time (all the time...
see the review for "French Women Never Get Fat" to see how I was meant to live abroad) like I do, nor do they necessarily embrace ingredients like pine nuts and currants like me (my sister).
Everything from anti-pasti to dolce' in an easy to follow format and with beautiful photos of the finished food.
The Crostata with Mushrooms and Pancetta (page 28) looks and tastes like something you would be served in a 3 Michelin Star restaurant, yet it is so easy to prepare, even for the beginner home cook.Most of the ingredients in these recipes are easily found in a well stocked pantry.
As a barkeep would keep his/her finer liquors a level above the rest, this particular book of Giada's is kept on the "top shelf" in my cookbook cupboard.
I was pleasantly surprised by this cookbook -- the "everyday" concept is delivered in an approachable way. The majority of the ingredients are readily available and in my local grocery store. None of the recipes seem daunting. I can't wait to try them!The bonus for me was that this was a downloadable library book. I would have passed this by at the bookstore, but the no-risk opportunity to thumb through it (albeit virtually) led to my reading every recipe.
Some great receipes in this book. I cook for my mom and my girlfriend. They all loved many of the receipes I made for them. If you love italian food, you NEED to get this book!
Great Marinara recipe. Very close to my own Nana's.
This was my pick for this month's Cookbook Book Club at my library.
One of the things the group enjoyed about this book was that Giada didn't call for any unusual or expensive ingredients.
We had a LOT of vegetable based dishes which was fine with me.
My husband did sauteed broccoli rabe with pine nuts and raisins, also a tasty dish.
This is definitely a good choice for a cookbook club because there are a lot of recipes that can easily be made ahead of time.
Oh, one of the most unexpected tasty recipes was Giada's spin on mashed potatoes!
I use Giadas recipes when I cook Italian. I especially appreciate her weekday cutlet recipes which are a huge hit in my house.
I have tried most recipes and they are all fantastic. I also haven’t found a better chicken piccata dish any where! This is a must have on a shelf.
It would have been to nicer to see photos of the recipes instead of her just preparing them. I never even cooked a recipe and sold the book at at yard sale.
There are many useful recipes here. Some, however are a stretch due to ingredient list. Still a solid book of basics.
I tried a couple of recipes and so far, so good. Some recipes are indeed very simple, even too simple to be called a recipe. However, they can make for great ideas for a party or in-between.
Awesome Cookbook. Loved The Tons Of Recipes.
meh ... wasn't super impressed with the recipes
This book was her first cookbook and it was a goldmine of favorites.
We tried Penne a la Vodka, which we made with Soju that we had on-hand, Wild Mushroom Risotto, Carbonara sauce, and a few others.
I really liked this book quite a bit–enough that it’s on my wish list now.
It’s a great introduction to Italian cooking, as well as a good tutorial on why things are done a certain way in the kitchen.
For example, when making the carbonara sauce she stressed having the cream at room temperature so it wouldn’t curdle.
Cook Italian with an American touchThose of us who watch Food Network are familiar with some of the top names in cooking, and Giada De Laurentiis comes up in the Top 10 list.
Her presentation skills, youth appearance wearing a low-cut top attracts many viewers and her cooking techniques are simple and choice of the recipes on her show is marginal.
Yet for those of us who are interested in Italian cooking with an American touch, we have to look for her recopies.
Until now we had to depend on recipes published on the Food Network.
I haven't tried all the recipes yet, but I love the simplicity of this collection that also has a sophisticated feel to it and wonderful flavors.
The recipe for roasted bell peppers, which I love in so many dishes, is surprisingly simple but creates a wonderful tasting pepper that can be used in sauces, salads, pasta dishes, etc etc.
There are so many tips and recipes for things like risotto, pasta and grilled dishes that I thought would be complicated, but are so simple and fresh in Giada's book.
I particularly like the dessert section which incorporates fresh fruit and simple techniques to create beautiful, delicious morsels that even dieters can indulge in.
Filled with delicious sounding recipes that are easy to make (really!) and tips and stories about why they appear in the book make this one a winner.
I'm an avid cookbook collector and will definitely be buying Everyday Italian for my collection.
With recipes that Strega Nona would definitely approve of, I have a feeling this cookbook is quickly going to become one of my faves.
I think I'll start with the orichetti with breadcrumbs and then decide where to go from there.
A delightful cookbook that is at once a pasta-lover's dream and fun to read.
Be warned, this book will make your mouth water!
This was my cookbook of the week.
Tried these recipes (using my familiar names -- reference Giada's book for the fancy names!):-Sausage and Pasta (p 106).
Used regular broccoli, and penne pasta.
Skipped the spicy stuff for sake of the kids.-Chicken piccata (p 153)Kids and hubby loved it too.-Roasted fish (p 163).
Used tilapia, and skipped fennel and rosemary, due to little kids.
Served with roasted veggies (pg 211) and this was a hit too.-Roasted Pork Loin (pg.
The hit of the week!
Hubby couldn't believe I could make such a good pork loin in the oven -- we usually grill.
I love this cookbook.
Ive tried out so many of Giada's recipes and I've been pleased every time.
She has some traditional Italian recipes as well as some she has made up.
My favorites are her biscotti, bruschetta and lentil soup as well as a recipe for a mascarpone cream that goes with fresh berries.
I haven't tried all the recipes, but I haven't disliked any of the ones I did try.
The only problem I have with this book is that no matter how many of her recipes that I try I still don't look like her.
I had mixed feelings about this book. I love Giada's shows, I do, but I felt like this book was really short of the mark. It is beautifully illustrated with full color photos, and many of the recipies are fast and easy. However, I really believe that the level of "shortcuts" used really outweighed the joy I found in looking at the recipies. I honestly feel that this is the book for the working professional who can't be bothered to make things from scratch or semi-scratch, and would prefer to used canned ingredients as a quick fix. Ultimately disappointing.
This was fine. Nothing special. I don't mind Giada, but her recipes are generally boring. I thought that she would have put new and interesting ideas into Everyday Italian, but it's the same recipes you find online and on food network. What was lacking, nearly any pictures of food. I don't mind pictures of Giada; I know she's popular and cute and this is her cookbook after all, but I don't need 60 pictures of Giada just having a grand ol' time. I'd much rather have pictures of the recipes in her book. It was annoying.
At the moment, my favorite cookbook. It's a gift from a dear friend. Eventually I'll make most of the stuff in here and probably find it wonderful, but for now my favorites are the salmon cartoccio (made an incredibly moist and flavorful salmon that tasted just as great in leftovers) and the lemon spaghetti, which I usually make using capellini instead (love how quickly it cooks and its delicate structure which somehow or other goes so well with the simple but scrumptious flavors). A real winner of a cookbook.
I was disappointed at how meat-centric the recipes were. As a vegetarian, I find Italian food tends to be one of the easiest types to make vegetarian, but these recipes were overall difficult to adapt. Although there were two vegetarian recipes, she took a bit of a condescending tone to vegetarians in them. I did find a promising marinara recipe, as well as a vodka sauce recipe to try though. Haven't cooked/tasted them yet though.
I've watched her show on the Food Network for a long time now and got this as a Christmas gift. I have made quite a few things from this book, all with great results. Although I must admit, I have been tempted to make little alterations to the recipes along the way....but I do that with almost every cookbook I read. Very straightforward and not too complicated or requiring huge lists of ingredients...great for homey, gut-pleasing meals.
