https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32110.The_Nonesuch
I don't invariably love Georgette Heyer's heroes and heroines, but The Nonesuch has a very likable pair (even if their names make me wince): the witty, intelligent and kind Sir Waldo, who is also young and handsome (though you wouldn't guess it from his name) and the honorable, even-tempered and also intelligent Ancilla Trent, a lady in Reduced Circumstances who is now working as a governess.
Happily, (view spoiler)[Sir Waldo never loses hope and remains determined to get to the bottom of it, and  (hide spoiler)]most of the time between the start of the misunderstanding and when it gets resolved is spent on other topics (Tiffany, of course), so the reader isn't put through the usual amount of agony.
Georgette Heyer, the lady whose impeccable writing skill was/is/still second to none.I’m torn about rating this one: on one hand the main couple was terrific and I loved them to bits but on the other hand, this book has THE most annoying character I’ve ever met in Regency novels.
Lydia doesn’t hold a candle to Miss Tiffany “I’m-too-beautiful-for-this-world” Wield!I wouldn’t have minded it (her) so much except that she was featured quite prominently throughout the story and with 3xx pages, it got to the point where I had to skim her parts just to keep my will to finish.
COD’s head, nodcock , rumgumption, canker, toplofty, coxcomb, chuckle-headed, ninnyhammered, fubsy-faced, widgeon, fribble , chuck farthing, miff maff, sapskull , baffle-headed clunch Who couldn’t enjoy a book with such colourful language? ! I really enjoyed this story. Tiffany was an absolute pain in the arse!
She deserved a lot more attention than she got (from the characters and from Miss Heyer!) and should’ve been more into the spotlight than annoying, vexatious Tiffany.
And besides, as it never occurred to them, that hum, hello, maybe the reason for Sir Waldo’s singling Miss Trent out might be that he is IN LOVE WITH HER?!?!?
I know Heyer loves to wrap things up pretty quickly, as though she thinks that after the hero and heroine have kissed it’s time to end the story as quickly as she can, lest she should be tempted to get them into bed- action (LOL I don’t think so!
3.5I feel cheated by the abrupt ending.
It doesn't even end with the two main characters.
The Nonesuch's strength are its characters.Some of them are adorably lovely (I loved Julian), some hilariously childish and greedy (Laurie), gossipy and mean (some of the village matrons), goodhearted (Mrs. Underhill, Miss Trent's employer) and some will drive you crazy (Tiffany).
I don't even want to give her more attention than she deserves (most characters gave her more than enough attention in the book).
As for the love story, it kind of feels as if Heyer forgot to explain or at least show why would Sir Waldo fall for Ancilla Trent.
The Nonesuch defies convention and provides a nearly perfect hero to entice and beguile the reader.
He's the cool guy and the alpha male without all the draw backs.Meanwhile, the lady Waldo chooses to favor, Ancilla, is in great doubt of his perfections and manages to disbelieve or misrepresent him due to her own self-doubt.
She really did need a comeuppance and I had no sympathy for her poor little rich girl-only child- no one to guide her when she was young issues.I love this story, but if it has a fault, it's the abrupt ending.
She's hands down the most nasty female character I've read in Heyer's universe.
Reading men of quality falling prey to her beauty until they were hit by her nasty temper and came out of the stupor was more fun than reading the subdued romance between Sir Waldo and Miss Trent, and it didn't help that the misunderstanding between them toward the end seemed a bit forced to me.
That's why it's so satisfying in the end when Miss Trent tried but FAILED to stop Sir Waldo from giving Tiffany a long overdue stern set down.
It's the two main characters that really sells this book for me.
He seems almost too good to be true, but really, it's a romance so why can't he be?
Really what I like about this book is the romance that blooms so naturally.
So often romances get caught up in the "they love each other and have to completely misunderstand each other to make it interesting" plot line.
This book was satisfying romance that was also interesting through and through.
I would recommend this to anyone who likes romance.
Especially to those who are interested in trying Heyer again.
1. Infinitely curious if the "Bernard Trent" mentioned in this novel (one of Miss Ancilla Trent's notorious cousins) inspired Loretta Chase and her notorious Bernie Trent in the Scoundrels series. NEW PERSONAL CANON.2. What I love about Heyer is her romances and the farcical elements that tie it all together.3. What I hate about Heyer is that there is never enough lingering on the happy ever afters. Also: never enough kissing. THERE, I SAID IT. COME AT ME.4. No, seriously: NOT. ENOUGH. KISSING.
Another Heyer I've re-read many times over the years. 'Tis a slightly older couple romance. I like the sensible heroine, and envy her endless patience, though am slightly irritated by how uptight and prudish she is. The character drawing of the annoying Beauty is so spot on, I cringe every time I read her. The hero is, naturally, perfect. Older men approve of him, younger men want to be him, ladies swoon over him. He's a bit over-perfect for me, but his witty put-downs are so hilarious I repeatedly forgive him for being a paragon of all virtues.
3.5 stars. Very enjoyable, only the ending was a little abrupt. Heyer typically ends with the marriage proposal, and we actually get a few pages past that in this book, but I felt like some of the secondary characters were left hanging.This one is a relatively serious romance instead of pure comedy. The dialog is sparkling, as always, and the hero and heroine are likeble once you get past their names, the worst I've seen from Heyer yet: Waldo Hawkbridge and Ancilla Trent.
Although I did enjoy their romance much more this time, I got more of a kick out of her charge, the spoiled uncontrollable beauty, Tiffany Wield.
I loved the gentle romance between her former swain, the thoroughly nice Julian, and the sweet, but high-character Patience Chartley.
As for Ancilla, she needed a little shaking up, as I found her just a bit too even-tempered and sensible.
Her silliness made her a bit more likable.I found the ending too abrupt, and I don’t think Lawrence, who was partially redeemed in the last chapters, got sorted satisfactorily either.
The mutual falling in love part happens quite early, and we need a big misunderstanding to delay the conclusion of the story.Tiffany (the charge) really is a revolting girl, but I was interested in the section, early on, where Tiffany points out that it's silly for her to pretend that she's not beautiful when she's perfectly able to see that she's beautiful, and everyone tells her it's so.
This reminded me of the experiment some girls and women have tried by simply agreeing when some random guy on social media tells them they're beautiful/hot - and then instantly turns on her when she doesn't modestly protest that she's not.
I moved almost immediately from  The Convenient Marriage to The Nonesuch, which I borrowed from my trusty Beth's extensive Heyer shelf.
She's appalling, everyone knows she is appalling (with the thankfully brief exception of Lindeth), and she gets entirely too much page time for my blood pressure.
This was not meant to be her show, and I resented all the perfectly good courting time between the shelf-bound governess and the Nonesuch being swallowed up by her weaselly machinations.
I didn't!""Piteous!" said the Nonesuch remorselessly.
Woman knows her way around a proposal scene.
So tempting to round this up to 4 stars; interesting bunch of characters, and Heyer has the temper-tantrums down perfectly for Tiffany's part (Tiffany is short for Theophania). Sir Waldo (really, awful name!) isn't as interesting as say, Our Hero in The Quiet Gentleman, but a Good Guy anyway. And of course Miss Trent is Just Right.
After listening to Eve Matheson's narration of this book, The Nonesuch zoomed from a three-star to a five-star for me. Just delightful. Heyer's talent for sharp, witty dialogue is perfectly captured by Ms. Matheson, and I expect she had some fun with the insufferable Tiffany.
Lovely, lovely romance featuring an adorable couple you can easily root for.
Ancilla Trent is a wonderful, sensible heroine and Sir Waldo is everything a romantic hero should be, in my opinion!
The plot isn't as fast-paced as in some of the more famous Heyer novels, but I think this would probably be a good recommendation for those readers who feel that the romance in Heyer is too rushed or understated.
Here I felt it was particularly well-developed and satisfying, the relationship had its ups and downs, there was even a Big Misunderstanding, which I don't usually like but which was very funny and very well-done here.
After a long break from Georgette Heyer, I was inspired by a recent Goodreads friend review to pick this one up and I'm so glad I did - this was by far my favorite of hers so far and probably won't be surpassed. The Nonesuch seemed a very deliberate homage to Jane Austen novels as I found situations that were very reminiscent of Pride and Prejudice and Emma especially. I loved this!!
Much of the story centers on Tiffany and the reactions of more than one man who comes to be introduced to her.
So she takes a position in a school and then as a companion-governess, when the head of the school recommends her as being able to thwart some of Tiffany’s misconduct.When Sir Waldo come to look at Broom Hall and finds he will need to give it more time, attention and money than he thought, he takes up residence and joins in the local society.
"She decided her wisest course of action would be to put him out of her mind. After reaching this conclusion she lay thinking about him until she fell asleep."
Loved it! With less action and more interaction between characters, it was a lovely story and a great read! I look forward to more of Heyer's stories.
2  stars. I was angry with the refusal to communicate. But the rest was enjoyable.STORY BRIEF:Nonesuch is defined as a model of excellence or perfection. Sir Waldo is called the Nonesuch because of his sporting accomplishments and skill with horses. He is wealthy. He establishes and supports orphanages that care for, educate, and provide children with skills. He recently inherited Broom Hall, a rundown estate near the town of Oversett. Waldo stays there to oversee repairs and improvements. He pl
While there, Waldo and Julian meet and interact with a number of people who live in Oversett.Ancilla had a season but didn’t fall in love.
cold treatment of her.Waldo falls in love with Ancilla, but she won’t have him.
If you don’t mind the big misunderstanding and her refusal to answer questions, but you’re a Heyer fan, then you should like it.As far as romance goes, this is typical Heyer with a friendship developing through the book, and a declaration of love at the very last moment.
Most of the story is about other things happening before that.I love the narrator Eve Matheson.
It looked like a fun plot, with more of a male main character, but I was wrong on both accounts.
Not that the plot wasn't fun, but it lacked what I've come to expect from Heyer.
The characters also suffered somewhat, more on them in a moment.Ancilla Trent, though once from a noble family, now lives as the companion/governess in the home of a wealthy widow, caring for the woman's niece, Tiffany Weild.
Sir Waldo's nephew, Lord Lindeth, shows up, falls in and out of love a few times, and pretty much just adds to the "romantic" plot in general.
She falls in love with Sir Waldo, but it really isn't quite believable.
Instead of centering on a man and woman who fall in love after seeming to hate each other and bandy with much sarcasm, as many of these types of stories do (including many of the Heyer romances) there is a spark of attraction from the beginning that triumphs through overcoming preconceived notions and a comedy-of-errors type of miscommunication.
If for no other reason, I raced through this novel to reach the anticipated satisfactory resolution.So many times I have read stories where there is a character who behaves so badly, either from selfishness or evil motives, that I find I love to hate them.
This was my first book by Georgette Heyer and it certainly won't be the last.
While she certainly has some great voices, one or two of them were used twice, making it difficult to figure out which character was speaking.
Cleanliness: the word "d*mn," "Oh, God" and "God" and their variations were used a handful of times.*Note: I listened to the audio version of this book so this Cleanliness Report is not as thoroughly detailed as other reports are.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
& on page 514 of this edition,  "if I'd have had the sense to have taken off my bars."I've read this novel at least 6 times previously & don't recollect this & it makes no sense to me.
A typo in this edition maybe?What I did like;Waldo himself, his character, charm & philanthropy.Like a couple of her other latter novels (most notably the Black Sheep) GH is more accepting of characters (in this case a secondary character) being involved in trade, rather than useless expensive ornaments.
Perhaps over-familiarity with Heyer is breeding contempt, but mostly I think it's just that I found the conflict so manufactured -- one of my least favourite tropes ever: the mistaken meaning, for example -- and I found the various combinations of characters pretty insipid.
Tiffany could've brought more life to it if she were just a little easier to sympathise with, but she's like all the worst parts of the impulsive heroines of Sprig Muslin, Charity Girl and, indeed, the secondary heroine in Lady of Quality, without their good sides.In fact, listing all those makes me think regretfully of how similar Heyer novels can be to one another in some details.
In this book both the main male lead Waldo (the Nonesuch) and his love interest Ancilla (yes I know, the names!) are older and are both very sensible, likeable people.
Not for this pair the wild passionate love culminating in an elopement.
So I guess I just like this because, like nearly all of her books, it's superbly well written; the characters are well drawn and engaged my interest (both the main pair and the supporting cast), it's frequently humorous (even if it isn't one of her more purely comedic works) and, in short, it's a very pleasant, light-hearted read.
I am probably being a little harsh, but sigh. Not my favorite Heyer! I didn't feel the love story enough, especially from his side, which is generally not a problem with me and Heyer. (I did like the little we saw of Patience and Julien!)I thought the character of Tiffany was mostly well done. It didn't feel like an ~evil woman kind of characterization. She felt pretty real.I think I'll have to re-read this some day and see if it grows on me.
I rather liked the original idea of Ancilla thinking herself beneath Waldo and was upset by the local people's opinion, which could have been developed instead of going on a stupid tangent.I also wonder whether real Regency guardians wouldn't have given a girl like Tiffany a few hard slaps and taken away her privileges until she comes to her senses.
Just having the main couple's misunderstanding cleared doesn't lead to the end of the story!
Tiffany is used as a plot device throughout the book and it is galling that she does not get a finale.Overall, the main problem is that this book is not fun, unlike what I have come to expect of Heyer.
