https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1149440.Heavier_Than_Heaven
*This review is dark and full of gifs. I have a special relationship with Kurt Cobain. Yes it's as weird as it sounds. Kurt died in 1994, and in 1994 I was a child, far too young to know him. It wasn't until I was in my teens that I was introduced to Nirvana. The thing was that listening to Nirvana had changed me, and I really liked that change. Kurt Cobain's angst-ridden lyrics spoke to my rebellious teenage soul. Who exactly was Kurt Cobain?He was a talented musician.  He was sensitive.    He
I have a special relationship with Kurt Cobain.
The thing was that listening to Nirvana had changed me, and I really liked that change.
Kurt Cobain's angst-ridden lyrics spoke to my rebellious teenage soul.
Who exactly was Kurt Cobain?He was a talented musician.
He liked to complain about things.
While not perfect, Cross' book is probably one of the best and most authentic music biographies.
Heavier Than Heaven perfectly captures the musical and life journey of a troubled artist.
In the end, Kurt allowed his inner demons to defeat him.
Yes Kurt, you did die a long time ago.

I just noticed the average rating for this book was 4 stars. Yuck. The author does a decent job putting together Kurt Cobains' life and rise to fame. In the last chapters he takes "creative license" in describing Kurts' last moments, all the way to his suicide. It's disgusting. No one was there (that we know of). He has no right.
This booked disturbed me a bit.
I know everyone wants to rape the corpse of Cobain but not me and admitting this is embarrassing but hey, we're all friends here.
Reading it I saw a lot of myself in Kurt Cobain and it worried me.
Am I going to blow my brains out?
Maybe I related to him in the way that a lot of people did.
Maybe he's just a common guy who was thrown into something bigger than him.
At any rate Charles Cross really did his research and created a book that I ate like chocolate cake.
As much as I idolized Kurt for most of my teenage and college years I now see that Cobain's style of thinking was as someone who saw himself as an innocent victim and he tended to be a bit paranoid.
Cobain never got over his parents divorce and saw his father's subsequent marriage as a betrayal; that dad was kicking Kurt out of his life.
I'm sure that losing this relationship was sad but most of us would be able to develop enough understanding to move past it.
For Kurt this sadness simply shifted in to anger and pushing his father away.
this book is almost equal parts fiction and Courtney Love approved versions of "actual events." it gives some information, but it should be taken with a grain of salt.
i don't blame the author for the misinformation, however, as he had to have everything cleared by Courtney Love.
but, if you have any doubts as to HOW Kurt died, you will notice how many errors there are in the telling of this story.
I published this on a music blog group called Future Rockstars of American (which is now dead I think): I finished reading the biography of Kurt Cobain, Heavier Than Heaven written by Charles Cross, just in time for what would have been his 41st birthday.
My conclusion?Kurdt (that’s how he liked to spell it) was a jerk!Cortney Love had the crowd call him worse things when she read his suicide note to them.I was not an active and avid fan of Nirvana when their singer Kurt Cobain killed glam rock with his nonsensical screams and pop structured punk grunge tunes.
Akhirnya selesai juga baca kisah si motornya Nirvana ini :D.
Buku ini cukup rinci nyeritain kisah hidup Kurt Cobain.
Pokoknya semua yang dirasa pernah ada hubungan dengan Kurt, dituangkan secara kronologis di buku ini.
Si penulisnya melakukan 400 wawancara selama empat taun dengan orang-orang yang pernah bersinggungan jalan dengan jalan hidup Kurt, sebelum buku ini akhirnya jadi.
Padahal ga sedikit yang mencintai dia, meski dengan cara mereka masing-masing -yang bisa dibilang rada aneh juga.Buat yang ngaku fans berat Kurt Cobain (dan otomatis Nirvana juga -lu ga bisa nyebut Kurt Cobain tanpa Nirvana, dan sebaliknya), buku ini harus dibaca!
When I asked him who were his favourite bands to write about or interview, he answered: “Well, Soundgarden, Pearl Jam and Nirvana, definitely, but I also loved the Walkabouts, the Screaming Trees, and other underrated bands”.Another thing that Cross has always been interested in is biography, especially writing about the lives of people in music.
I also asked Cross about his first encounter with Cobain: “I was editor of The Rocket, which at the time was the music magazine in Seattle.
Kurt Cobain was a constant whiner and self-mythogist who constantly complained that fame was thrust upon him. Cross spends the first half of the biography debunking the Cobain myths and demonstrating how heavily Kurt courted mainstream success. The second half of the book documents Cobain's downward spiral- it's really amazing that he had to kill himself with a shotgun when he got so close so many times with his "heroine." Fucked up, sad read about a man I idolized when I wasn't yet old enough to know better.
Although I'm not catholic, reading this book was a little like reading Jesus Christ story: even though I know the end, it's impossible to avoid the desire that it had been otherwise.While I was reading about Kurt Cobain's life, I realised the devastating impact that a divorce during the childhood can have in a particularly sensitive and different child.
I've read the story of a man who grey in the middle of contradictions inside himself, like spending his whole life wanting to be loved and then succumb when he had the entire world at his feet.
That's why the real heroines here aren't named Courtney but first girlfriend Tracy Marander and Bikini Kill drummer Tobi Vail, from whom KC learned most of his sexual politics.I agree with the GoodReader who said this bio's strongest in the early years where a lot of the mythology is parsed.
Toward the end it just gets sad---i.e. the home movie of Kurt and Courtney bathing the baby with a syringe in the background hanging on the toothbrush rack.I sense a big revisionary wave coming on about Nirvana.
Twenty years later the music still socks a punch but there seems a need out there to make it seem far less meaningful than it did from 91-94.
I enjoyed this book until I got to the last chapter.
Like a couple of other reviews state, the author makes it feel like Kurt is a character in a fictional story.
The author did a brilliant job of describing specific scenes and pictures, I really wish more of the pictures he described would have been included in this book.
There is no way for the author to know this.
It is unfair for the author to assume many of the things written, especially since Kurt is not here to defend himself.
I'm pissed that the author tried to fill that space with an assumed story.
An assumption, a feeling ....
I didn't know a lot about Kurt Cobain even though I am a Nirvana fan.
The book was interesting and the author seemed to have interviewed and researched a lot of facts.
And, wow, did he do a lot of drugs.The parts about the song writing/lyrics were very interesting and made me want to get out those Nirvana Cds and listen to them with the context given by the book.I question some parts about Courtney Love.
If you are a Nirvana fan, I'd say read it, but I wouldn't say this book is THE authority on Cobain.
I had read Michael Azerad's "Come as You Are," the story of Nirvana way back in the day so I knew quite a bit about Kurt's life and the history of the band.
This went a lot deeper and was compiled of many sources, family members and friends of the band and was a lot more true to life.
Michael Azerad's book was based on interviews with the band, so it was mostly how the band wanted to portray themselves.
This book made me decide that if I had known Kurt I would have thought him a lazy, self-absorbed butthead.
Like, yeah, Kurt Cobain, he was like a 3 stars, i didn't like some of the things he did.So, while I'm not sure what criteria I should exactly use for the purpose of rating a non fiction work about a person, there were elements of Heavier than Heaven that didn't sit too well with me, hence the meh rating.
It felt too detailed and made me feel very uncomfortable, and just like many other parts of the book, as if I were going too deep into somebody else's personal life.
Biography of Kurt Cobain:A Troubled Genius Is fame a blessing or a curse? Many people wonder what it is like to be famous. Kurt Cobain doesn’t need to. One of the themes most prevalent throughout the Biography of Kurt Cobain was that you can achieve almost anything if you keep at it. You can achieve almost anything because Kurt’s record tops the charts, he becomes famous worldwide, and he never listened to anyone who said he couldn’t do it. You can achieve almost anything if you really try becau
You can achieve almost anything because Kurt’s record tops the charts, he becomes famous worldwide, and he never listened to anyone who said he couldn’t do it.
This was proved when one of Kurt’s old friends said, “You’re really famous now, Cobain.
Finally, you can achieve almost anything that you keep at because Kurt never listened to anyone who said he would fail, and never quit.
Anyone can achieve almost anything because Kurt had a number one record, he became famous worldwide, and he didn’t listen to those who tried to bring him down.
Cross, and trying to piece together what kind of person he was.As anyone casually familiar with Cobain knows, he was constantly trying to strike a balance between his strong punk sense of morality and his desire to get his music out to a large audience.
It was this delicate balance between the two worlds that made the music great; music with an edge and a palatable emotional intensity that was at the same time accessable and catchy.
Fans have to deal with the fact that what made his music great is what killed him, and decide what that means to us when we listen.
This book is the Courtney Love sanctioned version of Kurt Cobain. May be something to bear in mind while reading it.
Especially since the details of his life exaggerated his actual experiences - a less polite way of saying it would be that Kurt just made shit up as he was going along to justify his experience as a tortured artist who wanted his parents to look bad.Kurt Cobain may have been the Douchebag of the Decade as far as rock stars who treated their fans like scum when times were turbulent went, but he had a personality and a general style that's just fascinating to read about.
For a long time, I have wanted to read about the life of Kurt Cobain.
Cross describes Cobain's life with careful attention to detail, even cross-referencing specific interview quotes with particular personality traits and anecdotal data to bring out exaggerations, contradictions, even lies.
The irony is, Cobain didn't ever attend the former, and the latter wouldn't be the best source of information.Cobain's life was turbulent, that is nothing new.
Kurt was at his best while performing.
And we are talking about Kurt Cobain, who, as the fans know, was a billion contradictions at once.If I already liked his band, Nirvana, after reading this biography I like their music even more.Family issues, drug addiction, depression and other factors surely played a part in Kurt's personality, there's no denying it.
It refrains from delivering oppinions on anything Kurt did, and I really liked it, because it means the book won't make the reader think "Right, he was a f**d up junkie" or "OMG, he was the most amazing person ever!" - my oppinion won't be influenced by the author's.A must-read for any Nirvana/Kurt Cobain fan, or anyone who wants to know what's on a very complex, interesting mind.
It sure as hell wasn't ladylike." But one of my favorite parts was a letter Kurt wrote to his ex-girlfriend and Bikini Kill member Tobi Vail at the end of 1993 when Nirvana were already huge:"I made about five million dollars last year and I"m not giving a red cent to that elitist, little fuck Calvin Johnson.
Not in a huge way, but enough to feel exploited.
But that's ok because I chose to let corporate white men exploit me a few years ago and I love it.
It shows a person so driven to be accepted and adored, while possessing none of the traits one needs to cope with that adoration once it's given.
Before reading the book, someone had warned me that the ending was really sad.
I told them I knew how it ended, so I thought it would be okay.
But the truth was, the ending was indeed very sad and moving.
It really showed the struggle one faces when they decide they simply can't go on anymore and knowing they are going to devastate those closest to them.
Cross got access to Cobain’s diary and also Courtney Love herself.
Love comes across better in this book than anything else I’ve read about her.
Especially the way we love to tear them down and pursue them relentlessly when they are obviously troubled (Cobain, Spears, Beeber, Lewinsky, and on and on).
Social Media amplifies our bad habits.
Still a (sad) fan.On Love: “He (Cobain) needed her to be his mouthpiece.
Suicide can also pre-empt abandonment like nothing else.I am now as certain as I can be that Dave Grohl did not write "My Hero" about Cobain!I have not read up on Nirvana.
One of the best music books of all time.
Though I did read the author's other book, on Nirvana's weird legacy, a few years ago, around the 20th anniversary of Cobain's death.I know some other reviewers have complained that the author seems to know more than he could possibly know about Cobain's last few days without having been there.
In general, this book has a novelistic vibe, that, for the most part, made it a more entertaining read than it would have been otherwise, but at times you get the sense that the author is pulling things out of his ass.
Better than most rock bios. Of course I knew how it was going to end but it still broke my heart into a thousand pieces.
I was never sure of why people worshipped Kurt so I decided to read this biography.
The biography is well written and a great read.
how much of what was written is speculation and projection?
I still don’t worship Kurt or his music, but I have a SERIOUS soft spot for that pain.
I’m sure Kurt would have laughed at and spat on this book for all of the errors it contained.
Imagine if someone wrote a book about your life and speculated about your pain and why you did things...
Going into this I wasn't a huge fan Nirvana and I'm still not.
It started off working through his childhood and although being very revealing of his character it was very slow to get through.
As the book progressed and revealed more and more about Kurt's struggle with life and drugs and fame, it was easy to look back on the earlier parts of the book and get a sense for how he felt.
Even if you aren't a fan of Nirvana as I wasn't, this is still a must read when it comes to music biographies.
Ugh. My heart. Growing up in the 90's, I'd only just discovered & fallen in love with Nirvana shortly before Kurt died. It was really jarring. I had to ask my mom what suicide meant. Really enjoyed this book, although I still need to look into the sources & accuracy and all that. It couldn't have been easy to write.
