https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/937106.Memoirs_of_a_Midget
"When one speaks of de la Mare one must go heavy on the cream..." I miss this book. But I don’t miss it like I missed Don Quixote or The Book of Ebenezer Le Page when I finished them. Those two books for me were the embodiments of two people; two people I dearly missed as soon as I finished reading the final page. I missed their presence as people in my life. I still miss them! even though they’re ever within arm’s reach right there on my shelf… The way I miss  Memoirs of a Midget is different.
Those two books for me were the embodiments of two people; two people I dearly missed as soon as I finished reading the final page.
It enveloped me, or rather it enveloped my imagination, but then that’s not quite right either, since in a way it was my own imagination that I entered while reading it.
All I want is this kind of experience, but I rarely get it, even though I seem to fill all my spare moments with reading.
And that’s what books help me almost achieve, abetted by my too-numerous-to-count reasons for reading.
To compare it to another book narrated by a dwarf I've read recently, unlike Geek Love, there's nothing extreme, no grotesque characters, never a sense of the author trying a little too hard.
It certainly is "an elegiac, misanthropic, sometimes perverse study of isolation", and it conveys a sense of loneliness with more subtlety than any other book I've read.Finally, as there's so little information about Memoirs of a Midget, I thought I might as well post a short extract:I held out my hand.
I read three pages and was enamored, and bought the book without question.
became very dear to me because I discovered her for myself, without newspaper, book review, website, or recommendation, under the fingerprints of someone who bought her first, new, in 1922.
He is, like Miss M, his own kind of curio, which I hope does not mean that I learned nothing from his work.This beautiful, sad, twisted novel resonated with me to a frightening degree.
was like a treasure to me, though only the kind of treasure I am sure that she herself would gladly be.
How intriguing!I finished this book and the first words out of my mouth, "this is stupid".
Other than that, we spend a lot of time exploring Miss M's thoughts and feelings, which at times grew a bit boring, was often chaotic, and a little frustrating, particularly in regard to her hot and cold relationship with Franny - who I loathed.The language is beautiful, but the novel was just too odd for me.
The scenes and language between Miss M and Franny are perhaps the greatest testament to the surreality that often suffuses the novel.
I had expected it to be much more based on the physical circumstances of being of very small stature in Victorian times - and to some degree it was - but the focus was really more psychological/social, exploring the inward struggles of an individual who is cut off from nearly all of humanity because of its perception of her as somehow less, and therefore not to be taken seriously.
Anyway, loved Miss M's struggle out of being forced to be a pet, a curiosity, and somehow not fully human, to taking action for herself and taking control of her own identity regardless of outside perceptions.
A forgotten gem, poetic and strange -- if not as successful as his short fiction, still very beautiful.
There's a heavily hinted romantic fascination with another woman, and that's quite good if you like beautiful, enigmatic, existentially angsty and spiteful characters.
And also the title makes you think the book will cover more of the character's life and basically involve more things happening than it does.
It really only covers a year of Miss M's life when she is 20 during which nothing much happens except what I guess is actually quite realistic, ie she angsts about people she knows and how to deal with her crush on Fanny and Mr Anon's crush on her.
The 4 star title lured me in, but the story disappointed. And the writing style is often confusing...or maybe I just didn't care enough to give it my full attention.
Read here for freeFirst line - Some years ago a brief account of me found its way into one or two country newspapersCannot work out if this is 1921 or 1922 first publication year as there is conflicting information on the net.quin·sy (kw n z ).
n. Acute inflammation of the tonsils and the surrounding tissue, often leading to the formation of an abscess.
...Adam and Eve by Boschfrom the Guardian - De la Mare's preoccupation with the Brontës is unsubtle (Wuthering Heights and Jane Eyre get several direct references) and, on occasion, the first-person narrative slips into the parodic.
I remember finishing Walter de la Mare's The Return and feeling that, while quietly devastating and profoundly moving, the form of the thing lacked polish.
No such qualms here.As usual Walter de la Mare's writing is among the closest you'll find to a waking, shifting dream, but here, despite the often quiet restraint of the narrative, the prose was so subtly coruscating in its suggestion that I had to reread some paragraphs over and over to soak in the beauty and strangeness of it all.
This novel and the finest twenty or so of his short stories showed that de la Mare was not only a great poet, but also a titan of prose fiction worthy of the utmost respect.
I have made progress in conquering my addiction to reading novels.
I don't read nearly so many of them anymore, for which I thank God. But I bought this about twenty years ago.
It is beautiful and truly original.
I originally bought it because of his poem The Listeners, which I also love, and the title.
The poem and novel both capture the eerie strangeness of life, a feeling that this world is a surface which connects with another world, that "reality" is not as straightforward as some may think.
I have to say I didn't *get* this book.
From all the positive reviews, I was expecting to be lured into an existence not quite real and regaled with visions of a slightly altered world.
I suppose I thought it would be like watching Nicole Kidman in Moulin Rouge, but for me, this book was so vague I had a hard time following exactly what was happening.
It didn't help that the most crucial exchanges all seemed to be written in French, a language of which I am completely ignorant.
The book just sort of...
(Note: I read a rather early version of this book, dating to probably the late 1930s.)
A perfectly uncanny novel. Subtle, too, as evidenced by the sheer number of complete misreadings it's accumulated over the years (see, for instance, the laughably crap review in Rain Taxi from a couple years back).
Like almost every long book I love and rate 5 stars... Weak ending but so, so close to perfect.
phenomenally well written. an instant favorite. more to come...
Cast off into the world with a modest income following the deaths of her parents, the narrator finds a kindly landlady/caretaker.
Major adventures at this location were sneaking out at night to view the night sky and forming an emotional attachment to the beautiful daughter.
I initially did not realize that the mysterious male suitor there was a dwarf until Miss M refers to him as "the hunchback." Not surprisingly when she is swept up into London aristocracy (by a daughter of "Lord B."), she wearies of being a trinket on display.
I got involved with the characters and actually cared about what happened.
Do all things miniature fascinate you? I confess I have a weakness for small objects, so the autobiography of Miss M., a very small person indeed, was an enchanting read. De La Mareweaves a deft story of Miss Midgetina's struggles in the enormous and complex world sheventures into. Themes of love, loss, death and fidelity make this a big novel about a small heroine.
It's the kind of book I love-- classically constructed, beautiful sentences, highly imaginative. But the metaphor becomes very tired-- the protagonist is a midget who, like all of us, feels overwhelmed by the world. And the protagonist is not herself very engaging, or anyway I didn't find her so.
I couldn't review this quickly, I'll have to think about it. I look forward to re-reading this book and also looking at White's Natural History of Selborne. Now I will read Best stories of Walter De La Mare.
an eighteenth century midget in LONDON no less. yeah, probably won't get around to this anytime soon.
the enchanting story of a short woman: her perspective lovingly caught by De La Mare's detailed prose, particularly her isolation.
I tried very hard to read this book, but just could not complete it. I found it too dragging and uninteresting.
I shall read this just for Nicole.
Very strange and exquisite. A story that stays with you for a long time.
On the suggested summer reading list for students.
English lit...1890s? England...solitude and society from Miss M pov. More like 2.5 stars - heavy on the ruminations, short on activity.
P.9
Sconsiglio di leggere la presentazione della versione italiana perché, almeno quella presente su Goodreads, è del tutto fuorviante.Questo romanzo è costituito dalle memorie di una donna piccolissima (trovo il titolo italiano molto azzeccato), la signorina M., di cui non sapremo mai il nome ma soltanto l'iniziale.
Di conseguenza la gente si stanca facilmente di lei, quando la novità della "nanetta" carina si esaurisce nel giro di qualche tempo.Penso che nel 1921, quando questo libro è stato pubblicato per la prima volta, il romanzo sia stato visto come molto innovativo, perché i "nani" erano ancora visti come fenomeni da baraccone, e pensiamo solo come potesse essere accolta una nana lesbica!
I find it difficult to fully understand what is being said because it is written in an 'old' english style, nevertheless it is a very original story. I started liking it more after about 300 pages.
