https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1828266.The_Manitou
I really enjoyed this one. Brisk, wacky, unique. It's the first time I've read Masterton, and now I can see why folks dig his stuff so much. He's great with pace and characterization; his protagonist in this one was particularly likable. I'll definitely be reading more Masterton soon. Any suggestions?
Δεύτερη ανάγνωση, λογικά 15 χρόνια μετά την πρώτη. Αναμενόμενα μου άρεσε λιγότερο, καθώς έκτοτε έχω διαβάσει πιο "σύγχρονα " βιβλία τρόμου, αλλά όταν αναλογίζομαι πότε γράφτηκε βγάζω το καπέλο στον συγγραφέα. Μπορεί να μοιάζει πια σαν b movie, αλλά το κατατασσω στις καλές! Παίρνει ένα εντελώς τίμιο 7/10 από μένα.
Otra novela de demonología clásica que llega a mis manos, pero en esta ocasión se hablara de demonios antiguos de las comunidades indias de norteamerica.
En primera instancia para conocer otra clase de demonios y espíritus, desde sus procesos de creación invocación y hasta reencarnación.
3. Observaras en estas paginas una posesión bastante diferente, ya que nuestra victima será el receptáculo del gran hechicero en su espalda, una joroba grotesca que va creciendo y creciendo para poder emerger y cumplir una gran venganza.
Además las escenas sanguinarias son muy bien descritas que te llevaran a sentir pavor.
Definitely a horror classic from Masterton. He does a great job with character, plot, and suspending disbelief. THE MANITOU is an excellent read.
Σπλάτερ λογοτεχνία 1.01, με ινδιάνους μάγους, μανιτού των βράχων και μοχθηρά πνεύματα από άλλους κόσμους σε ένα αιματοβαμμένο βιβλίο γεμάτο απόκοσμους ήχους, κραυγές από το επέκεινα και φώτα που τρεμοπαίζουν. Διασκεδαστικότατο.
Indiański szaman z XVI wieku odradza się na Manhattanie lat 70., by siać swoją zemstę w „Manitou” Grahama Mastertona.Kiedy kilka lat temu recenzowałam „Panikę” i spisałam prozę Grahama Mastertona na straty, jednak wtedy jeszcze lektura horrorów klasy B nie sprawiała mi przyjemności.
Dzisiaj, po latach, wszystko się zmieniło i doceniam tę prostotę, doceniam lekkość i beztroskę z jaką bohaterowie wpadają w sidła potworów, nic sobie z tego go końca nie robiąc i dalej zachowując siły na dialogi pełne sprzeczności.
Taka lektura to sama radocha, kiedy wiadomo już czego oczekiwać i teraz, sięgając po kolejne tomy serii o „Manitou” już wiem, że nie będzie tu ani grama strachu.
Czemu nie?
2/3 fast-paced and very absorbing, totally improbable, odd dialogue, roller-coaster ride of fun followed by 1/3 absolutely ridiculous explanations and endgame.A young girl approaches a self-proclaimed phony fortune-teller, Harry Erskine, with a disturbing dream which he can connect to her aunt, who she lives with and who is his client.
It's creepy, it's crazy, it takes turns that you don't expect (the x-rays), it's full of spooky Indian folklore and mythology, a creepy hospital setting, it's got it all.It had a slower burn 70s feel in the beginning, which I really dig.
I've read a handful of Native American horror novels and this one is definitely the best.If there was any drawback, I thought that when the demons and the Great Old One came into it, they weren't quite as scary as Misquamacus.
I kept wanting the story to get back to Misquamacus because I thought he was just flat-out terrifying.The Manitou is a great lesser known horror novel with fast pacing and a lot of scares.
Ърскин е нюйоркски ясновидец, който се препитава, лъжейки възрастни жени - гледа им на карти таро, заблуждава ги че е медиум и предава съобщения от покойните им съпрузи и т.н.
Внезапно при него идва младата Карин Тенди - леля й е редовен клиент на Ърскин и го препоръчва.
Момичето разказва кошмарите си на шарлатанина и после отива в болницата, където трябва да я оперират - отзад на шията й внезапно се е появил тумор, който за броени дни е нарастнал ужасяващо.
Най-великият и зловещ индиански шаман се е завърнал от мъртвите, за да си отмъсти на белия човек и всички трябва да го спрат - Ърскин, докторите, полицията и друг шаман.
It started out fairly good, but then went completely ridiculous.
The book went into detail about Indian legend and what this manitou could do, what it could summon, how to defeat it, etc.
I realize that this is a first novel, so I'm willing to try this author again.
I do not recommend starting with this book.
This seems far fetched but I guess I would have to do some research.
There was hardly any gore or any sense of dread in this novel.
I really hope his other novels are better because I have a crap load of them!
Really liked it:) A fast simple read. Although its clear this was his first novel and it feels kinda rushed is till liked the feeling it gave me and Harry is a great character. Nice indian folklor with all the ghosts demons and what not. I will go for the second book in this series for sure. 4 stars:)
I recognize that (SPOILER) it's a bit ridiculous and maybe a little racist that the white spirit of a police computer system can trump the most powerful, evillest Native American god there is (END SPOILER),but dangit if this doesn't read like something Masterton really enjoyed writing.
And dangit if I didn't enjoy reading the thing too for all it's faults.
I giggled a bit at some of the more eye rolling moments (the aforementioned, and how, as other readers have pointed out, police detectives and doctors tended to shrug and go along with all the extreme weirdness despite their affirmed rationality).
But believe me, when Misquamacus throws down, there are some very interesting, entertaining moments in this book.
Karen's got a lump on her neck. She goes to see a tumor specialist. Turns out it's a 400 year old pissed off Medicine Man growing in there. You find that hard to take seriously? Evidently, so did the author and therein lies the problem. The tone jars throughout. It's spot on in the third person prelude, but then Erskine's first person narrative kicks in and the novel turns into a jokey curate's egg. An enjoyable enough battle between old magic and modern technology, but I was expecting something with a harder edge.
I've read The Manitou, and thought it was GREAT! - It was actually the very first "adult" horror-novel I read (besides my HUGE collection of children's and young-adult horror-books by writers as R.L. Stine, Christopher Pike, and Darren Shan ;) ), and to be honest; it's the only (of the over a 1000 adult-horror-books I have here) one I've actually finished so far. So I don't have much "comparison-material" currently, but it was definitely one of the best books I've read; really suspenseful, terrifying, stunning and very thrilling... Definitely worth a read!
Not terrible.
But you have to do a temporal reset and perhaps it’s best viewed as a campy thriller.
It’s definitely fixed in the time it was written.
Patients smoking in hospital exam rooms.
Native Americans are referred to as Red Men and Red Indians.
African-Americans are referred to as Negros.
Computers use punch cards.The narrative evolves around a fake psychic and a group of press-ganged doctors and police battling the spirit of an ancient shaman with the help of the “spirit” of a punch card computer (which is currently as powerful as a 1989 Texas Instruments calculator).
Early in the book, I expected to see a story populated with caricatures, but I think this might be some of Graham Masterton's charm.
He probably knows you are expecting tropes, and in fact, I bet he is counting on it.
You see familiar character types walk on stage, but then they start fleshing out in a way that causes the reader to think, "This is exactly how real people would act if they were in these roles."This is an archetypal horror story.
Masterton draws from some of the best terrifying real estate -- The Exorcist and Lovecraft -- but never lets readers feel like they have been here before.
As debuts go, Masterton put his name on the map with this. You can read the synopsis, to get a real good idea about the story. What I was impressed with, was how he made this such a visual read. Wherever the story is taking place you are there, feeling the confusion of the doctors as to what kind of tumor seems to move/pulse on young Karen Tandy. Convincing doctors to the terror, the horrendous evil... that is the Manitou.
A masterpiece of fantasy terror. An extremely quick and easy read, fascinating mythology, very likeable cast of heroes and chilling villains. One of the best horrors I have ever read.
Weird, gory, creepy and basically everything I look for in a horror novel (and I love that stepback cover!). This is the fourth book I've read by Masterton and with this book he has earned a place as one of my favourite horror authors. The other novels by Masterton I've read—Walkers, Feast and Mirror—are all just as entertaining as The Manitou and I highly recommend all of them. I'm so happy that I was lucky enough to come across a bunch of Graham Masterton paperbacks at Value Village a few weeks ago!
Πριν την εγχείρηση η κοπέλα πάει σε ένα μέντιουμ, τον Χάρι Έρσκιν, για να του αναφέρει ένα όνειρο που είδε και που πιστεύει ότι συνδέεται με το πρόβλημα υγείας της.
Οι γιατροί θα ζητήσουν την βοήθεια του Χάρι Έρσκιν, ο οποίος σαν ψευτομέντιουμ δεν μπορεί να κάνει και πολλά, οπότε με την σειρά του απευθύνεται σε έναν Ινδιάνο γιατρό που ξέρει από πνεύματα και όλα αυτά τα μεταφυσικά.
Στο youtube μπορεί να βρει κανείς άνευ υποτίτλων ολόκληρη την ταινία η οποία βασίζεται στο βιβλίο, αλλά από τις σκόρπιες σκηνές που είδα μου φάνηκε σαν παρωδία...
It wasn't until some years later that I discovered that the film and book were one and the same and that the book was the first real hit for Graham Masterton (I remember seeing it late one night in a season of 70s horror movies on TV and commenting about the similarity to the book) - as a result I guess every time I read the book I think of the film which is not a bad thing just that I automatically date the book as from the 70s as well.
The Manitou is a series of books steeped in native American Indian mythology.
The series consists of:The ManitouRevenge of the ManitouBurialSpirit Jump (short story)Manitou BloodBlind PanicThese are great books and I am surprised that Masterton hasn't become more prominent.Plot ***Spoilers***A woman is suffering from a growing tumor on her neck, enters a hospital in San Francisco.
The growth is actually an old Indian shaman reincarnating himself through the young woman to exact his revenge on white men who invaded North America and exterminated its native peoples.
I don't understand the 3.5 average rating for this book. I thought it was terrible. I enjoyed the characterization but found the plot so preposterous that I barely finished it. It started out promising but just went off the rails about 2/3 the way through it. And although I realize it's dated, and am not an advocate of updating any book to modernize, the constant references to "Red Indians" was a bit much. I will read more Graham Masterton -- I will not, however, read any more books in the Manitou series.
Good: - dialog - description - allusion to Lovecraft - horror elements - pace Bad: - character motivation - plot - occasional slips into slapstick comedy...not clear if they were deliberate.The characters were ok. They were distinct and fun, but their reactions to things didn't make very much sense. Race is handled as I expected - very 1975. It's not maliciously racist, just feels really ignorant and insensitive.
Misquamacus, the Wampanoag sorceror from H.P. Lovecraft's story "The Lurker at the Threshold," erupts into the modern world and proves himself to be one of the most bad-ass wizards in all of fantasy fiction. (Voldemort and Saruman together wouldn't last five melee rounds against this guy!) A culturally-insensitive mashup of Native American religious practices with Cthulhu mythos, but still one of the most inventive and scary horror novels ever written.
I wanted to love this book but somehow found myself dismissing events as too unbelievable. "Ack! It would never happen that way", I thought over and over again. Of course, the story would never happen in any case, but within the capsule of suspended belief, I want to agree with the courses of action chosen by the characters. And that just didn't happen for me with this book
Máte tu sympatického hrdinu, podvodného jasnovidce Harryho Erskina (který se pak objevuje v dalších padesáti Mastertonových románech), svižné dialogy, zajímavého padoucha (indiánský šaman, který se hodlá znovuzrodit z nádoru na krku Harryho známé), pořádnou várku krve a mrtvol, děj na sto osmdesáti stránkách šlape a je tu pár scén, které, i když vás nevyděsí, mají aspoň atmosféru.
Není to žádné velké dílo, ale v rámci té doby je to solidní knížka, navíc okořeněná v hororu tehdy moc nepoužívaným humorem.
a na rozdíl od jiných mastertonovek je první Manitou pořád použitelný (pak ještě vzniklo dalších pět pokračování).

This was a lot of fun. Might be the first time I truly understood what people mean when they say “page turner.” Any criticism I have is so minimal it’s not worth mentioning. If you’re looking for a quick, fun, and creepy read, give this one a whirl.
La historia es muy buena y te mantiene al borde de la silla la mayor parte del tiempo, sin embargo, hay muchas conversaciones que sobran y hacen perder el ritmo del relato. No obstante, me encantó.
