https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6537.From_Potter_s_Field
Book Review  3 of 5 stars to From Potter's Field, the sixth in the Kay Scarpetta thriller series, published in 1994 by Patricia Cornwell. After five books, you begin expecting more and more from a series, wanting it to up its game, thrown more mystery and character depth... and you get that in this book; however, you also get a bit of a different perspective this time. A few things about this one:1. It picks up from a previous book with the same killer who still hadn't been caught. It'd be hel
3 of 5 stars to From Potter's Field, the sixth in the Kay Scarpetta thriller series, published in 1994 by Patricia Cornwell.
It picks up from a previous book with the same killer who still hadn't been caught.
Hits a little too close to home, given what happened in CP years ago.4.
killing spree over and let's fly back home.5.
it's a solid read but a bit more focused than previous books.
But in the end, it was more or less just a good thriller book for me.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544]	[polldaddy poll=9719251]
This volume picks up on previous storylines where Dr. Scarpetta, Virginia's Chief Medical Examiner, is faced off with her nemesis Temple Brooks Gault.Gault is a serial killer with an easily recognizable MO and he also holds a very unnerving desire to be a part of Scarpetta's world.
Some of his murders are clearly not as random as first thought.Once again Patricia Cornwell brings a wealth of technical knowledge from her years spent in the Chief medical examiner's office in Virginia.
This book has all the angst and mystery that you expect from a Patricia Cornwell novel.
The plot is a continuation of a storyline started in a previous novel, the pursuit of Temple Gault.
Gault is just as dark and manipulative as in the other books and you race to the climax of the book to see if he will get away to torment Kay Scarpetta in the next novel, or will this chapter finally reach its conclusion?After 350 pages of taut writing and involving narrative, the whole book resolves in 
two paragraphs
! And they aren't even long paragraphs.
SPOILERS 30/3 - Like The Body Farm this book's title is false advertising. An even smaller portion of the book was dedicated to what's named in the title - the first victim is originally a Jane Doe and is buried in Potter's Field (her real identity is later discovered and she's moved to a family plot). Thinking about the plot of the book I can't think of an appropriate title off the top of my head, so maybe Cornwell had a similar mental block and at the last minute just pulled the title from an
Thinking about the plot of the book I can't think of an appropriate title off the top of my head, so maybe Cornwell had a similar mental block and at the last minute just pulled the title from an interesting (though barely mentioned) location that she had used in the book, not even considering how little it had to do with the story.
Or maybe the publisher thought the idea of a book with a storyline that featured Potter's Field (and the body farm, previously) would make it a bestseller and didn't consider how it fit with the plot...
I've read a lot of Cornwell's books. The one thing that irks me the most about Scarpetta is that she doesn't let people help her when the big baddie is determined to fuck her shit up. They want her to temporarily move to a safe house, and even when she lets people stay over- it's like pulling teeth. They aren't being unreasonable, because Kay, this person wants to target you and they know where you live. This happens in every single book.
From Potter's Field is yes another brilliant psychological thriller from Patricia Cornwell.
Except this time, his target is none other than her.In From Potter's Field, Patricia Cornwell explores the different relationships between the characters as well as mental illness.
She explores Temple Brooks Gault's game with Kay Scarpetta well, tempting and taunting her at every move.Dr Kay Scarpetta is the narrator of the series.
She has a great character, and her flaws really showed in this book.
Some complications from earlier books remain, including her tangled love life.One of my other favourite characters is her niece, Lucy.
If you love Murder Mysteries, Patricia Cornwell is for you.
I wouldn't rate this at the top of the Scarpetta series but Cornwell is great at what she does and this is no exception.If you don't know the Scarpetta series and read this on it's own, there are probably a few too many previous references to be comfortable as a standalone novel.That aside, there is plenty of action and any novel with a wintry setting will always have my heart.A high 3 stars.
3,5/5 αστεράκια.
"From Potter's Field," by Patricia Cornwell, is the 6th book in the Kay Scarpetta series...
It clunks along like a living example of how not to write engaging, fluid dialogue.The Scarpetta books, more and more, are fluff.
This book is liberally littered with conversations about computers, programs, modems, UNIX, etc but in a way that feels organic and understandable.
Scarpetta's attitude towards her sexuality seems to be changing from Nice White Lady Liberal Tolerance to actual acceptance, just as her character has quit smoking and cut back on drinking.
I also feel it's presented as a character flaw.This book was a pretty meh book.
I gave Kay Scarpetta a heroic try, dragging myself through 6 awful books waiting for things to get better, but they never did.
I have so many gripes about this series it's hard to know where to begin.First off, isn't she the medical examiner?
I don't know why the FBI has Benton or Marino when they could just keep Scarpetta full time.Second, the characters suck.
NOT ONE.-Kay Scarpetta, rages and whines all day long about everything under the sun.
Is snooty and moody, bitches about everything and puts herself in the dumbest situations I have ever read a main character doing.
Li os primeiros cinco livros da série "Kay Scarpetta" em Abril de 2012 e depois parei.
Aliás, não lia um policial há algum tempo, por isso decidi continuar esta série moderadamente.Sinceramente, tantos livros diferentes depois, só tinha uma ideia dos livros anteriores.
No entanto, nesta fase da vida dela, tem a sobrinha a trabalhar perto.Neste livro, Kay persegue um assassino em série que a tem vindo a atormentar.
É uma história interessante, porque a Patricia Cornwell tem um dom para contar histórias e mantém-nos sempre em cima da ação.
Não ficarei tanto tempo sem ler esta série novamente.
Foi a minha estreia com esta série e com esta autora e, talvez em parte por minha culpa, soube-me a pouco.
Assumo esta parte de culpa uma vez que li este livro isoladamente mesmo sabendo que é o sexto de uma série, o que pode ter contribuído para nunca me ter conseguido sentir suficientemente envolvida com as personagens e com a própria história (até porque, já depois da leitura, vi em algumas reviews que o caso que aqui se resolve já tinha "aparecido" em alguns dos livros anteriores).
No entanto, o próprio desfecho ficou aquém das (minhas) expectativas...É um livro leve, de leitura rápida, e reconheço que conseguiu, em alguns momentos, aguçar um pouco mais a minha curiosidade, mas por agora não sei se me apetecerá ler outro desta série.
Loved the reading! Watching the tangled web become unwoven!!
There is no psychology, but then there can be all types of crime novels and Cornwell's are procedurals - she has Wesley for a bit of psychology/profiling, but Scarpetta's job is medical.If we see this series as procedurals, we can take it like any of a number of modern crime shows on TV, most of which I cannot watch because they are so boring, now having lots and lots of extreme gore but not actually that much more plot than stuffy oldies.
Dr.Scarpetta keeps on mixing the personal and professional..
there is no way she can stop doing it,isn't it?
This is one of her decent works-neither very good not bad..
there isn't any of the classic detective work,if you are looking for one.
Even the killer do not have a well-developed psyche.
If a profiler tries to work on Cornwell's killers,he would end up nowhere.
Psychology is almost non-existent in this work and so it sort of feels hollow considering we are talking of a serial killer here.
This book is something which you should go for if you have a few hours stuck somewhere and do not have anything else to do.
Cornwell returns with a captivating novel that seeks to tie together the loose threads from the previous two.
Will Scarpetta put him away or will the killer elude her again and continue his spree, with her in his crosshairs?The third in the mini-Gault sub-series, Cornwell is able to move the story forward with such ease that the reader remains amazed at the attention to detail.
Drawing on the facts from the previous two novels, Cornwell weaves the continuation of the story, using the nuances introduced previously.
An attentive reader will see these clues surface as Scarpetta tries to rid the world of this heinous character.
For years she has helped the government track the notorious serial killer Temple Gault, whose victims are easily recognized due to his distinct killing patterns.
After eluding capture over a long period of time, Gault begins killing again, and Scarpetta and her partner Pete Marino are sent to investigate the body of Gault’s latest victim.
Upon deeper investigation, Scarpetta stumbles upon a horrifying fact: Gault has somehow stolen her credit card and is pretending to be her son.
She is able to trace the stolen card to her niece Lucy, who is the creator of CAIN, a government computer system used to keep track of criminal files.
Gentle reader, this is the not the book where you want to start reading, if you are interested in the Dr. Kay Scarpetta series.
You should start here: Postmortem.
Plus, this particular book in the series, #6, is the third in the series which has been about a particularly vicious psychopath who has been stalking Scarpetta.
I don't know what happened to cause the ending in this novel to be so obviously truncated as if the last chapter got chewed up by a dog or something (maybe Cornwell had a personal emergency?) but this isn't typical at all of the books.
The only thing I didn't like was it left you hanging on whether or not Carrie (Gaults accomplice and Scarpettas niece's ex lover) was caught.
Once again Scarpetta is still having her affair with her colleague, Special Agent Benton Wesley, and in this book they both admit to each other that they are in love with each other but don't know what to do because Benton is married.
I like Kay Scarpetta's character a lot so it was really disappointing when she began the affair with not sign of remorse.
But I guess Cornwell is showing that her main character is human and subject to imperfections and mistakes like the rest of us.
4+ stars#6 in Dr. Kay Scarpetta series AND, more importantly, the last of the little mini-series/trilogy within the series (installments #4, 5 & 6).
I really like this series, and was pretty satisfied with the wind up, or what at least seems to be the wind-up of the Temple Gault/Carrie Grethen-related trilogy (but you really never know with them).
This was a stronger installment than some others I have read (before & after it in the series) and me tense throughout worried that something would happen, although there is a little more waiting for something to happen than actually does happen.
I am liking Kay Scarpetta less and less.
I felt like shouting at her at times.
Why is it that so many main characters do so many stupid things in their investigations which land them in grave danger?
I realize that the danger is part of the plot, but there are plenty of danger spots in a real investigation without doing something that your average citizen KNOWS is going to be trouble?
This may be my last Cornwell book.
(I think I've said this before...but I keep hoping she can get back to the level of her first books.
Good for learning about 'show don't tell' writing, detailed forensic description, slow police work and a jaded, depressed 'other woman' ME's world view. A dud as a crime thriller. Awful, really. Illogical 'genius' serial killer (and family) was a big part of it but Scarpetta & Co. did not fare well either - especially in the climax - what the hell was that?
Cornwell koji sam pročitala (a s obzirom da me nije baš oduševio, možda i zadnji), ne bih baš znala o kakvim se tu sve prijetnjama, ubojstvima i zastrašivanjima radi.
Kay s druge strane, pristaje na zaštitu, ali se odupire ulozi pasivne žrtve, pa tako postaje akter koji rješava taj slučaj i vraća si svoj život.
Također, sam lik Kay mi se tokom čitavog romana nije uspio približiti, i moram reći da mi se ne dopada toliko da bih seriju čitala dalje.
Možda griješim, možda se Kay kasnije promijeni (Cronwellica je napisala još 18 romana nakon ovog), ali za sad mi je na listi "probano-nije oduševilo-dajem mu drugu šansu".
An excellent read...
but then I enjoy most of the Kay Scarpetta books written by Patricia Cornwell.
The name sort of rang a bell...
and checked this morning...it was indeed made into a movie.
I finished the book quite quickly - as it is an exciting read...demanding that you continue to find out how it all ends.
I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys thrillers....
murder mysteries and 'whodunit's'!I might just watch the movie now, that I have read the book.
I don't like to do it the other way around...
since it influences the enjoyment of the book too much!...
I am really enjoying my re-read of this series and of course how differently I view the characters now that I am a similar age to Kay. In my 20s when I first read these books, Kay always seemed so old :-P.
This book was set in both Virginia and NYC (specifically Central Park) and was a carry on from previous books with trying to track down serial killer Gault.
On to book 7.
Would have been better if the author didn't use her characters to get on her soapbox about homophobia. Lucy can be a pain in the ass but at times, Scarpetta is worse - some of her actions belong to the TSTL heroines in romantic suspense.I also learnt (through Wikipedia!) that Cornwell changes to Present Tense from Book 11 (The Last Precinct) onwards. This has completely put me off the series.
THESE ARE SO RIDICULOUS BUT I CANNOT STOP READING THEM. Killer karate kicks!
You know what you’re getting with a Kay Scarpetta book. I enjoyed the book even though it did finish rather quickly
I had issues with the last book but decided to give this one a try to see if it got better or went somewhat back to the goodness of the previous books, it was worse.
None of the characters are likable anymore not a single one, I would have let the bad guy kill them all in a heartbeat by the time I was half way through this book!
The situations for the characters in this book are truly unbelievable.
She does everything but her job in this book she's so busy trying to do everyone else's.
Perhaps _From Potter's Field_ was not the best Patricia Cornwall book for me to start with.
Halfway through _From Potter's Field_ I found myself looking for her bio and was not at all surprised that she actually had been a crime reporter and worked as tech writer and a computer analyst in the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner of Virginia.
Maybe that is why I feel the medical details in the novel ring false.
[return][return]I will, of course, give Cornwall another shot - this is the sixth book in the Scarpetta series - perhaps I simply selected a novel Cornwall phoned in.
