https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1560965.The_Shrimp_and_the_Anemone
At one point, Eustace thinks if he had the money, he would not have to do anything but hunt and shoot and visit foreign destinations.Of course, I did not have what Eustace Cherrington had, a sister like Hilda who looked after him and helped him along when he fell.
Fortunately, by the end of this first volume of the Eustace and Hilda trilogy, Eustace begins to understand what is in store for him but has no idea on how it will affect the simple things he loves.
Both of the books take a double view, with a main character seeing things from childhood and the reader having access to what the adult world probably actually looks like.
This is the same technique that makes The House in Paris so enjoyable, and what I wanted from and did not find in What Maisie Knew, though of course for the latter, it may just be that I find James' prose extremely heavy going, like trying to swim through some kind of boring and viscous liquid.
I'd like to read the two others in this little series of novels, though I wonder how Hartley will hold up as his characters reach adulthood.
3 stars.  This first book in the Eustace & Hilda trilogy takes place during one summer in the 1930s with Eustace at 9 years old & Hilda 13. He is an odd little boy, at once fanciful and submissive, perhaps due to his poor health. Despite the fact that he is unlike any small boy I have ever known, I quickly became sympathetic to him. The book was a fast read but has some ideas in it that I am still mulling over. I look forward to reading the rest of the trilogy!
3½ stars.  This first book in the Eustace & Hilda trilogy takes place during one summer in the 1930s with Eustace at 9 years old & Hilda 13. He is an odd little boy, at once fanciful and submissive, perhaps due to his poor health. Despite the fact that he is unlike any small boy I have ever known, I quickly became sympathetic to him. The book was a fast read but has some ideas in it that I am still mulling over. I look forward to reading the rest of the trilogy!
It's a short novel, yet it took me almost a week as it asks for the slow read (the child's thoughts are unsteady and self-conscious).
Eustace's mother's recent death is a powerful background explainer for the set up the novel happens in; we the reader know the household is traumatised, but the children haven't absorbed this yet (they're just on a long stay in a seaside town - a sort of Indian Summer).
What might superficially read as a well written tale of children growing up is actually a picture of a household coping with death.
Hartley knew how to write children.
This book, the first in the Eustace and Hilda trilogy, is more of the same but without the tradgedy of The Go-Between.
It's a slow thoughtful book whose events we see through the eyes of young Eustace.
As to plot there really isn't one, just a sequence of, to Eustace, notable events over the course of a few months.
As I said, it's slow and thoughtful its also occasionally beautiful and sometimes a little heartbreaking and Hartley writes children I for one can empathise with.
It's no Go-Between but what book is?
In fact Hilda is scary in the way she both makes Eustace do things, such as talk to an old invalid lady, which I am certain she would not have, whilst also making sure he never strains himself, being in the Edwardian parlance of the day ‘a sickly child’The book opens with a description of a shrimp being half-eaten by an anemone and the children impotently trying to rescue it with the shrimp ultimately dying but not without it having a profound effect on poor Eustace.
Having read 'The Go Between' and finding it entertaining I figured there wasn't much to lose in purchasing one of his other novel especially as it was sitting tragically alone in a sale bin for only £1, I'm glad I rescued it...
The prose in this book, in my opinion far surpasses that of 'The Go Between'.
Hartley manages to capture the beautiful innocence and naivety of a 9 year old boy whilst still using an expanse of wonderful vocabulary.
There something so pure about this book and I look forward to re-reading and exploring the sequels.
Well what a most annoying book.
It had such great reviews, is set in Norfolk and promised so much, and yes I know it's taken me ages to read but it was so boring and pointless!
217 pages of ramblings, written in the genre of children but by an adult...
Most frustrating and annoying.
I have no idea how the book got so many great reviews...what a waste of my time but I was determined to finish it in the hope it got better.
However it is possible - I think - to see he sibling rivalry and sibling love shining through it.
was made to read this for school and ended up loving it. It broke right through my cynicism.
I found this disappointing, totally unable to find much of interest, or sympathy, in either Eustace or Hilda despite the unmistakeable excellence of the writing.
Very sweet portrait of a close bond between brother and sister. Just a bit too dry for me.
In his 1953 classic, The Go-Between, he exquisitely captures the innocence, devotion and emotional development of young Leo Colston as he becomes inexorably embroiled in his role as messenger in a secret tryst between two young lovers.In The Shrimp and the Anemone, published in 1944, Hartley presents the activities, flights of imagination and childlike innocence of Eustace Cherrington, who is 9 - 10, and his sister Hilda, 4 years older, during their time in an English coastal town sometime in the early 20th century.Eustace is somewhat frail, treated as delicate by his family, and he is cared for tenderly by a nurse, Minney, and especially by sister Hilda.Hilda is devoted to Eustace, despite their age difference, although she is disposed at times to push Eustace into situations where he is obviously reluctant.Eustace is religious, well-mannered, normally cautious but occasionally intrepid, and he has a vivid imagination that can draw him into fancifully wild and invalid conclusions.The events of the novel cover the period of about one year, and are left is a state that clearly invites further exploration of the lives of Eustace and Hilda.
This book speaks of a child's world, and his feelings, his fears and his relationship to those around him. The children are so innocent and immature for their age but at the same time very sensitive to every word and action from the adults that control their lives. This is a depiction of a world no longer in existance where children were extremely well behaved and respectful that I had difficulty empathising with the characters. Somehow I kept thinking of Great Expectations by Charles Dickens although they are entirely diffirent stories.
* 1000 novels everyone must read: the definitive list: Family and SelfSelected by the Guardian's Review team and a panel of expert judges, this list includes only novels – no memoirs, no short stories, no long poems – from any decade and in any language. Originally published in thematic supplements – love, crime, comedy, family and self, state of the nation, science fiction and fantasy, war and travel – they appear here for the first time.
Before I read Shrimp and the Anemone, I never imagined that I would enjoy reading about a nine year old boy and how the world appears from his perspective. But this story is written with such sensitivity and skill that it reawakened past emotions I thought had faded over the years and been lost forever. What a great writer L.P.Hartley was.
Not as spectacular as 'The Go-Between', but still beautiful, clever and insightful.
3.5 stars - An enjoyable, quick read. I adopt all the reviews that describe how well the author writes children. They are delightful, realistic, and not annoying.
A treat, a rare treat, one of the most lovely and moving books of the last 100 years.
Perfectly lovely, and a few pieces of things to turn over in the mind, but overall it just didn't resonate with me at all. Still, I'll read the next and see how it goes.
