https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/266350.Five_Days_in_Paris
Un libro entretenido, bien escrito y fácil de leer. Al principio me pareció lento y muy repetitivo con cierto tema por parte del protagonista, pero a medida que vas leyendo va mejorando.Es verdad que en unas cuantas páginas avanza todo muy rápido pero no ha estado mal.
هذه الرواية جدا رائعة ... أحببتها جدا ... تصور لك كيف عندما نصل في مراحل حياتنا بأن نكون مغموسوون جدا في موقف ما وتترتب عليه كل حياتنا ... كيف علينا أن نتصرف ... هل نستمر وننسى مانحب أم نقف في وجه هذا الانغماس ... لاتفوت على نفسك الفرصة ^^
Last year, I tried reading another book by Danielle Steel called "The toxic bachelor" and to be honest, I couldn't get past page 10.
The thing is Steel puts too much effort into the background in order to be done with it the first 50 pages while as I read other books, the background was put by the author all along the book and not all at once in a certain place.
It is like two people are conversing, she has to go around writing a full page paragraph after one sentence, and before knowing what the reply of the other person was...
كتاب لطيف و خفيف جداموقعه الأفضل هو كاستراحة بين الكتب الثقيلة فهو لا يسمو بروح أو ينمي العقل تماما كالوجبات السريعة حينما نتناولها لكسر الروتين لكنها لا تبني جسدا و لا تنهض بصحة أبدا
Five Days in Paris review I read Five Days in Paris by Danielle Steel. To begin, I honestly did not like this book very much. It was a very boring book, and the way Danielle explained and introduced new plot was horrible. She would explain the concept bluntly and upfront. Everything was given to you, and to make it worse, she wouldn’t merge the information with what one of the characters was saying or thinking, she would break the fourth wall and say it directly. Horridly boring way to get info
It was a very boring book, and the way Danielle explained and introduced new plot was horrible.
The book is about a man named Peter Haskell, a president of a pharmaceutical company about to release a “miracle” drug, and a woman named Olivia Thatcher.
Peter noticed Olivia walking away in the dark by herself, and without thinking, catches up to her and they talk for a very long time about their lives.
Olivia is in a marriage with a man who she doesn’t love anymore, and runs away.
This book was extremely boring to read.
رواية لطيفة وخفيفة تناولت فيها دانيال ستيل موضوع مهم وهو استغلال شركات الادوية للمرضى من جهة وخيانة 
اسلوب الكاتبة ضعيف اوي وكئني بقرا لطفلة في اعدادي .. معرفش يمكن الواحد اتعود يقرا لناس تقيلة فعشان كده لما قريت القصة حسيتها ساذجة والاسلوب ركيك دي القصص الروائية للناشئين بتتكتب بشكل اروع من كدة بمراحل لكن هي ممكن تنفع فيلم كده يمثله احمد عز ومي عز الدين لكن متنفعش أكتر من كده
I can't believe how unbelievably awful this book was. Having never read a Danielle Steel before thought it would be a quick easy holiday read and would give it a try - the word Paris in the title was the deciding factor. It turned into a speed read just to get to the end. Paris featured briefly as the place that man meets woman. Will leave Danielle Steel for those who enjoy this kind of thing!
This was fine, a quick summer read is all I ask for from Danielle Steel. Although it is frustrating to witness the 'snobby' self importance of the 'well to do' wife of the nice, down to earth guy.
Then the worst part for me was the one dimensional characters "pity me I'm a handsome hard working man who's wife doesn't give me as much attention as her father", the Manic Pixie Dreamgirl (on whom a completely unrealistic anount of tragedy was placed, no woman in her situation would be thinking of some three day fling I can promise you that) and the BAD husband and BAD wife to soothe our consciences for rooting for the cheaters in the relationships.Lastly the book ended right when it should have got interesting, the only reason I got so far was to find out how things would be resolved, jobs, house, etc but no I'm expected to be satiated with everyone else's lives being ruined and five seconds of hey we're an item!
If you want to read about a cringeworthy romance, please read this one. Ugh, there was cheating in this book and the main character had NEVER thought about cheating before until he was this particular woman. It was love at first sight, literally. After five days they said they loved each other. What??? That doesn't happen. This man was married to his wife for eightteen years (a shitty marriage at that) and he fell in love with a random woman he had never met before. His wife and his father-in-l
It was love at first sight, literally.
After five days they said they loved each other.
This man was married to his wife for eightteen years (a shitty marriage at that) and he fell in love with a random woman he had never met before.
His wife and his father-in-law were super close and extremely annoying.
This whole was basically this man fighting with his wife and father-in-law about starting experiments on humans early (with the risk of the medicine being deadly) or waiting until there was no risk at all, but spending more money and taking more time.
One star rating. I thought I was the Only One (AURORA's voice from her song Conqueror) but one star rating is pretty much the norm with this novel. I didn't mind reading it but I agree with others, it was meh.
Nice, lovely read. Predictably Danielle Steel which is good for comfort reading. Loved the chemistry between Peter and Olivia but I felt the ending was too rushed.
boring....cant get into book at all
terrible! this is my third Steel book.I love the others.But This book was incredibly slow, repetitive, and boring.Almost the entire book was about business and politics.
All her books are the same story line just different locations and characters! They are so boring! I am totally done reading her books!
أما بالنسبة لأوليفيا فالحياة السياسية لزوجها ترهقها كثيرا خصوصا متابعة الصحافة لها بعد موت إبنها، وأيضا عدم اهتمام زوجها بها بعد دخوله عالم السياسة فهو مازال مرتبط بها للظهور فقط أمام الكاميرات أن علاقته مستقرةضربت لنا ستيل في هذا العمل مثالين عن الحياة الزوجية.
الحياة الزوجية في ظل السياسة.
اما اوليفيا فنشأت عزيزة عند أبيها وارتادت الجامعة التي ارتادها أسلافها وسيرتادها اولادها من بعدها لأن أبوها قرر ذالكلا اعلم إن كانت فكرة الكتاب أصلية أم تم استهلاكها من قبل، لكن بالنسبة إلي هي جديدة.
قرأت هذا الكتاب فقط لأحقق شرط في تحدي القراءة عن كتاب نشر سنة ميلادك.
لم أسمتعت كثيرا بهذه القراءة مع انها كانت خفيفة فعدد صفحاتها قليل.
I hot so mad at Katie's character. I just can't stand people like that. Not even to talk about Frank's character. Oh my goodness! Just glad everything worked out at the end for Peter and Olivia.
I love a good Danielle steel book
I had mixed feelings through out the book; I felt it had a lot of potential however so much was repeated. To go along with those mixed feelings I felt the ending didn't really put it all together, it was super rushed.
I found myself slowly enjoying the book more and more as I was getting through it!The way the author danielle steel developed the characters and their backgrounds and stories made it more enjoyable as it felt like you could probably understand more of what happened with the characters and could have a better relationship with them!There could of been a better love story but I appreciate this was made in 1995 and it would be slighty old fashioned, however the story was interesting and kept me intrigued throughout the story!!
I know Danielle Steel was one of the most noted novelist in the world but this novel, Five Days in Paris was not as grand as her previous novels.
The pace of the story was a bit slow-- and fast-- and it was not necessarily boring but redundant.
I was told that most of Steel's works are like that, slow building pace of climax but this one was different.
Peter's battle with his wife and his father-in-law was boring and every page has the same content.
It turned out to be redundant (as I said).
I'd hate to rate it low but that is what I think.
Please no hate.
I have never read a Danielle Steel book before. I wanted to read a genre that I would never normally read. Loving France as I do, I enjoyed the setting of the majority of the book. However, I didn't really enjoy the characters or the situations they were in. Although I had sympathy for the positions they were put in, I felt their interactions were wrong. There was a lot of repeating the same information throughout the book. Eh...I wouldn't read it again.

دنيال ستيل نمطية في أغلب رواياتها .. الروايات تشبه روايات عبير و أنا شخصياً أسميها .. روايات الحب " الرخيص" لأن الحب يظهر فيها خارقاً بنهايات سعيدة كقصص الأطفال و الحكايات الخرافية !! ربما النهاية لم ترقنيفهناك خيانة مبررة .. انفعالات غير متوقعة و غير واضحة .. لا سبب تعطيه الكاته في النص .. الفكرة شوهدت في عدد كبير من الأفلام الهوليوودية .. و بطريقة ساذجة تعيد نفسها في الرواية التالة
One of the reasons I chose this book is that I love to read about Paris. There were a few places mentioned but little, if any, descriptions concerning the city. Much too much time was devoted to character development and that character's feelings (very repetitious). I would have liked for the story to move on. The story line was okay, just very predictable.
مش احسن حاجة كتبتها دانيال ستيل لكنه مش اسوء برضو هو فكرته حلوة وتناولها فيه للقصة طفولى نوعا ما بس لطيف وخفيف ويقرأ بين كتابين دسمين كفاصل هو شبه الافلام الرومانسية الخفيفة اللى بتتعرض على mbc max :) :)
رواية خفيفة ،، ممتعة ،، تعطي دفعةً لمن يظنُّ ان الوقت تأخّر ليجد الحب النافع / الحب الداعم / الحب الذي يعطي القوة ويمنح الراحة ،، وليس الحب الذي يجرفنآ لتأنيب الضمير وللاحساس بالذنب او الامتنان تجاه من نحب..((عيشوا بحرّية ، لا تتراجعوا عن أحلامكم ، ستجدون السعادة ! ))
pfff ... ik ga me toch maar terug houden aan mijn voornemen enkel boeken te lezen waarvan ik op voorhand vermoed dat ze goed zijn.
Awful!
