https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7108725-start-with-why
Me: “I’ll take ‘Books That Should Have Been Long Articles or Essays Instead of Books’ for $500, please, Alex.”Alex Trebek: “This book takes hundreds of pages, including at least 4,398 references to how great Apple is, to make a fairly simple (albeit important) point, and was likely written by someone from the Department of Redundancy Department.”Me: “What is ‘Start With Why’?”The idea at the core of this book—that successful companies can clearly articulate WHY they are in business (beyond making profit) rather than just being able to describe WHAT they do and HOW they do it—is a compelling one.
It’s helped me think about how my team operates in the context of our firm, and how our firm defines its own value proposition.But, I don’t think I needed 250+ pages to get me to that point.
It’s not just going to waste itself, you know.
Great TED Talk, but not enough to carry a book.
The author utters the same platitudes over and over.
The main concept is that persuasive argument starts with connection, then emotions, then facts.
This goes back to Aristotle and is nothing new.
For example, Apple Inc. is great because they are so original, i.e. they don't just copy and refine, they truly "innovate." But Southwest Airlines totally copied and refined Pacific Southwest Airlines (PSA) including the name, the concept, even the stewardesses in the go-go boots, and PSA the true innovator is long gone while Southwest thrives.
Stuart Sinek gave a really great TED Talk that summarizes the argument of this book: when we get caught up in the details of HOW and WHAT we are working on, it is very easy to forget WHY we are doing it.
Token mention of Martin Luther King aside, most examples in this book refer to the enterprise of coming up with products to sell: iPhones, TiVo, Harley-Davidson.
It's as if all great tasks in life are things we sell each other, from motorcycles to social justice.
Overall, I'd say the TED talk is a far more successful product than the book.
You can't be successful without getting started" - ok that isn't what Sinek says but the concept and theory of his book is so vague and loosely tied together that it feels like a similar sentiment.Second of all, business is not emotional.
Yes, if I worked at a children's hospital or if I managed an animal rescue it might be a different case, but in many professional settings our emotions have to be checked at the door.
And even at a children's hospital or an animal rescue I feel you would have to check your emotions when it came to working with others.
For instance, if he would pay you a dollar for every time he repeated that phrase, I think you could buy yourself 3 copies of the same book.I remembered the overly used example (I think it was a Chicken Soup for the Soul – please correct me if you do find the right reference) – The example where a Priest roused the congregation to donate money for the new building.
And as he held on to that dollar waiting for the collectors to come and collect the money, the priest went on bombarding the audience with his oratory.
DON'T WASTE TIME READING THIS. WATCH THE VIDEO ON YOUTUBE INSTEAD. I was lured by this book because of Sinek's TED video. Great video and idea, and I should have stopped there. I feel that the book can be cut by 75% without losing its message. What's really annoying is the overuse of Apple as a example. Like, really? There are other examples in the book, the massive use of Apple story is just irritating. Borrow the book and skim through it. But it is not worth buying. Watch the TED video for free instead.
Simon Sinek presents a compelling vision of how companies, organizations, and individuals can achieve success. His simple message? Start with why. Which is to say the guiding principle of our endeavors should be based not on what we do or how we do it, but rather on why we do it. According to Sinek, those agencies that can effectively articulate their "why" (or purpose) are most likely to develop loyal followers and long term success.Sounds great Jeff, so why just two stars? Well, there's a num
Simon Sinek presents a compelling vision of how companies, organizations, and individuals can achieve success.
Second, Sinek overreaches a bit when he tries to connect his Golden Circle to both our brain structure and the Golden Ratio.
Sinek provides maybe a dozen or so examples (from Henry V to MLK Jr to Apple), but really just focuses on a few cases that neatly fit the narrative of success he's constructed.
Apple is successful because they start with why.
Simple, it's because they're successful!Addendum: Here's a link to Sinek's TEDtalk: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a6kbcE....
TL;DR The author wants us to communicate from the inside of the golden circle, not from the outside of it. He believes that people don’t buy what you do, they buy why you do it. "People don’t do business with everyone who has what they need. They do business with people who believe in the same thing they believe in."more @ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t6Eui...
Simon Sinek describes in his book "Start with Why: How Great Leaders Inspire Everyone to Take Action" how leaders and companies should work as a series of circles, i.e.
The WHY theory gives us the ability to communicate why we are doing certain things, helps entrepreneurs take better decisions, as well as individuals in the every day life.All in all, the most important fact Simon Sinek is trying to point out is that the way something is communicated must be believed in, explained, and people accept it for themselves, because THEY believe in it.
The author works backwards in that he has a belief in his view of what makes great leaders and selects biased or incomplete data or uses unsubstantiated hyperbole to set about making the case for that view.
It is, start to finish, lazy hyperbole and more of the same fist bumping "you're number one baby" so called "leadership" slang that business people often spout to one another to convince themselves how masterful they are at understanding the customer and what it is they need to hear.
I get the message and agree that "why?" is probably the most important question any leader should be asking... and answering. The book was inspiring, to be sure. But it also felt full of speculation as to why certain companies succeed and others don't. It wasn't that what Sinek says is wrong, but it's based upon a lot of assumptions and relationships why little empirical evidence. Carefully chosen examples that tend to confirm his theory, but still anecdotal at best.
هذا كتابٌ اسمه أكبر من محتواه.الكتاب نُشر عام 2009 يعني ليس حديثاً، ولبّه يُختصر في 3 أسطر:لكي تنجح 
It’s hard for me to gauge, given my intense loathing for non-fiction books.
They’re so unenjoyable.Sinek writes decently enough, and I totally buy what he’s dishing out, but I gotta say, by the 9th time he uses Apple or Southwest (or etc.) as an illustrative example, I’m a bit “I get it already!” It seems a bit...convenient.He also contends that finding the WHY is not the hard part - it’s sticking to your WHY that’s difficult.
Like with practical questionnaires and thought-starters and exercises, filters for testing whether it’s a good/real WHY…really practical shit to help me find my WHY.
Start with Why is one of my all time favorite Ted Talks. This book is a longer version of the same concept. For the first few chapters, I did not feel that I was really getting any new information. However, the latter portion of the book went in to more specific examples of how great leaders have changed the face of their companies by focusing on Why.
One good point, offered with endless repetition, extreme oversimplification, and annoying inconsistencies, in a bad writing style.
Embodying our WHYs and effectively communicating them to anyone who will listen, asserts Sinek, is crucial to both personal and business success.
“People don’t buy WHAT you do,” Sinek explains.
He explains how each of us can achieve greater success and satisfaction by inspiring others through a shared sense of purpose — as opposed to more commonly used tactics of coercion and manipulation.
“If you follow your WHY,” writes Sinek, “others will follow you.” It’s a refreshing redefinition of what constitutes true leadership, and a great tool for re-infusing your own work with purpose-centered passion.
Simon Sinek, the author of the book, narrated very clear how great leaders started with WHY and inspired people.
They succeeded because they were crystal clear of WHY they do things and people who know HOW to do had followed them.I agree with the author's point of Manipulations and energy will bring the customers but that will no longer work.
Instead, Inspirations and Charisma will have longer impact, when people believes what we believe they will be with us for long time.Finally, I learnt, before start doing anything, just to think WHY to do that, then HOW and then WHAT.!!!
Reviewing a book before completing it isn't a great idea usually, but I completed only 30% of the book and it's just too much fluff.
The idea is simple but explanations are redundant.
Simon's Ted Talk was great but I don't think it's enough content for a book.
He doesn't support his theories with enough evidence.
Sometimes, I could think of the counter examples very easily.
That made me doubt the author's credibility.
And the concept of Golden Ratio that he introduced to give legitimacy to his concept of Golden Rule is outright stupid.
Just see his Ted Talk, it's great.
Interesting ideas, poorly presented, with 90% of examples being white men in tech. Try harder.
Typical manipulations include: dropping the price; running a promotion; using fear, peer pressure or aspirational messages; and promising innovation to influence behavior—be it a purchase, a vote or support."- price/promotion play is not good for the brand and playing that game will hurt the reputation- using Fear - "The idea is that if you don't buy the product or service, something bad could happen to you."- inspiration is the opposite than fear- peer pressure - "When marketers report that a majority of a population or a group of experts prefers their product over another, they are attempting to sway the buyer to believing that whatever they are selling is better"- novelty (aka innovation) - Real innovation changes the course of industries or even society.
Having read Leaders Eat Last, and watching and following everything Sinek does, I thought it was about time to go back to his original book.With a basis in anthropology, but a strategic marketing mind and experience, Sinek has created a great argument for why "people don't buy what you do, they buy why you do it".
I've started to really think about what is my why and how I can communicate that effectively, use it as a basis for what I do (and update my marketing material and website!).A fantastic book for any leader or business owner who wants to truly understand how to inspire others.
Inspiration is the cause represented by the company."A simple claim of better, even with the rational evidence to back it up, can create desire and even motivate a decision to buy, but it doesn't create loyalty.”You can’t differentiate based on your HOW and WHAT (product, service, price, etc.).
The WHY (belief) drives the decision, and the WHAT (features and benefits) serve as tangible proof of they WHY, providing a way to rationalize.EmployeesCustomers and employees want to be part of a higher cause (your WHY).Companies with a strong sense of WHY inspire their employees, who are more productive and innovative."Average companies give their people something to work on.
The middle two sections make up our limbic brains – which is for feelings, trust, and loyalty; and it’s also responsible for human behavior and decision-making, though it has no capacity for language.In other words, when we communicate from the outside-in, people can understand vast amounts of complicated information, features and benefits, and facts and figures… it just doesn’t drive behavior.
in that it's a great idea with powerful concepts, but it becomes unnecessarily repetitive beyond 100 pages.I'd recommend listening to Sinek's TED talk first:http://www.ted.com/talks/simon_sinek_...And I'd still recommend buying the book to drive the points home with a bit more depth.
Using the Wright Brothers, Martin Luther King and Apple as primary examples Sinek states that companies that are clear about why they are in business have a better chance of loyality from costumers, even when the company experiences setbacks.Sinek claims that companies that only have What they make and How they make it at the heart of their business will suffer disloyality from costumers and employees and that will in the long run harm their chances of survival.
Sinek uses the image of the Golden Circle, with the Why at the heart and the How and the What as the outer circles.While I believe Sinek certainly has a point, I was a bit dissatisfied with the book.
I got this book via a recommendation from a friend, so I was probably one of the few that had not seen the TED talk which contains much of the information within this book.I was interested in this book as I thought it would provide some useful insights and background into helping understand the critical success factors into driving change.
I am pretty passionate about a lot of tech stuff, and looked at this book as perhaps revealing how others translate passion into action, and how these compare to my own methods.The book overall is very good, but at times you can get weary of the same examples being used and re-used (i.e. Apple/Jobs) and I could not help wondering if other case studies could have been researched.
This book was very well researched and written in a way that indeed gels with the Author Simon Sinek s "WHY" of inspiring others.
The book is based on the premise of most people know what they do.
Simon Sinek submits...start with WHY and the how and what will come naturally.
Very strongly argued with science in how the brain works and is effected by WHY.Inspiration and optimism are sometimes looked at in a Pollyanna way but Sinek in his book Start With WHY sees inspiration as the spark that lights the fire in any organization, any cause looking TO DO!
This book was inspiring .... at the beginning. Then it turned into a mantra making me want to hear something different- a different company as an example, a different person, a different view on things. But each page dragged on about the same things and for a short book, this is not an overstatement. I obviously do not like repetition!
Simon Sinek takes a great 20 minute TED talk and belabors about it too long to be interesting. He is repetitive and dilutes his message to the point of boredom. Yet nothing can take away the basic good idea behind this book- I would suggest everyone watch his TED talk to get to know it.
Good idea, but not worth the time - just read a summary.
Had to read it for class and after discussing it every other week for 12 weeks I'm sick of it.
