https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152476.Strange_Defeat
It takes a peculiar sort of courage to write the eye-witness history not only of a defeat, but of the comprehensive collapse of the country one loves, at the hands of an enemy one hates and despises from the depths of one's soul.
I wonder if Strange Defeat is required reading in the army staff colleges of the world--not so much maybe for the specifics, but for the passion behind the dry, rather scholarly words and the deeper questions about the webs that connect one's country, its causes, its civilians and the soldiers who are supposed to defend them.
Among the many possible and traditional villains of French political life, all come in for condemnation save, curiously, the Church (which he never mentions).What really struck me was the last chapter where Bloch essentially indicts the Communists for creating the national divisions which underlay the production of what he calls, without flinching, national cowardice.
(The parallels to the way that the US New Left critiqued "vital center liberalism" in the 60s/70s, thus clearing the space for the Reaganite rightist counterrevolution to win the field is hard not to notice.) "Against one particular school of politics no more terrible charge can be brought than this: that once a man has been formed by it, he may forget everything it taught him, including much that was fine, much that was noble, save only this--the denial of his country." Ouch.
A shattering assessment of why the French were so easily defeated in 1940, written in the bleak moment immediately after the capitulation:"We find ourselves today in this appalling situation--that the fate of France no longer depends on the French, Since that moment when the weapons which we held with too indeterminate a grasp fell from our hands, the future of our country and of our civilization has become the stake in a struggle of which we, for the most part, are only the rather humiliated spectators" (p.174).
He readily acknowledges that he did not have ready access to the 'behind the scenes' machinations of decision making but he did have a keen eye and a myriad of experience that gives his analysis validity and credibility.He is both relentless and balanced in his exposure of the flaws that plagued the French leadership and HQ; he spares no level of command, but it is evident that his purpose is not to discredit on a personal level but to reveal on a professional level.
Unlike historians writing on the collapse of France in the past tense, Bloch's work is based on experience and having lived the drama.
I just completed my World War 2 cluster with “Strange Defeat”, Marc Bloch’s analysis of why it was so easy for Nazi Germany to conqueror France.
(He relates how cadets of Samur were being killed on the Loire while Nazis cut their escape route over bridges in Nantes that were off limits to and undefended by French Army)
Bloch approaches a subject matter which, I feel, few writers of his time could have with the same extraordinary level of emotional collectedness, clarity, or finesse—the complete disintegration of one’s nation, both military and social.
In hindsight, the actual reasons which Bloch identifies as central to the French capitulation are not entirely unheard of.
Most of the specific military failures he acquaints us with concern a small group of army elements operating in northern France/Belgium, and can scarcely be taken to be representative of the entire French war effort.
So often, Godwin's law or the persistent apologists for Communism hinder us from learning badly needed lessons from the tulmutuous twentieth century.
This short, very well written book is the judgement of a prominent French historian on how France came to be so swiftly defeated in World War Two, not as a matter of tactics and movements on maps, but also in how the seeds of defeat lay in the state of the nation.
By the second half of the book, I was highlighting passage after passage, wanting to post them to show the applicability of the lessons of the past to today.
First couple of chapters on the military failings of the French Army in facing the Germans in WWII is pretty standard fare - fighting the last war, overly bureaucratic, etc.
But Chapter 3, where he covers their shortcomings as a people in recognizing the German threat and in being prepared to adequately deal with it, that is worth the time to read for sure.
Bloch is an historian who fought in WWI and WWII and writes this in reflection on France's quick fall to Germany in 1940 as he is fighting in the resistance where he will eventually be executed by the occupying Germans.
A very interesting and entertaining view of the French defeat by the Germans in 1940.
Bloch served in the French army in both World War I and the opening of World War II so he was experienced in the workings of the army by the time he wrote the book in 1940.
He's a fascinating person as he later fought in the French Resistance and I wish he had survived (he was shot by the Gestapo in 1944) so that we could see if his opinion had changed with time.
I highly recommend it to anyone interested in WWII or that period in general.
Lo más importante de este libro es el lúcido análisis de la derrota francesa frente a Alemania en 1940 como sólo lo puede hacer una mente privilegiada, con una claridad y concisión cartesiana que asombra hoy día. Bloch sirvió como oficial de Intendencia y ya había conocido la I Guerra Mundial, y eso permite que sus descripciones y anécdotas presenten la guerra como lo que es, algo absurdo y caótico pero también analizable, como cualquier actividad social o laboral.
A gem of a book about WWII by a great medievalist.
I found this book very helpful in understanding the Fall of France in 1940.
This is one of the books that helped me understand.
The short version is that the Germans had the best fighter aircraft force in the world in 1940, and decent tanks (though not the best - that came later), and they used the forces in a way which was unheard of then, and is now standard to all major armies of the world.
Americans make fun of France's defeat in 1940, but if the American Army of 1940 had been there it would absolutely have been defeated as badly as the French and British were.
I am simply overwhelmed. I read Bloch as a medieval historian back in graduate school. I knew 40 years ago that he had a first-rate mind. He created the "Annales" school of history almost single handedly. What I failed to grasp then was that he was also a Mahatma, "great-souled one". He was a good man in addition to being a great historian.
A fascinating text. A comprehensive account of France's failures by one of its most prominent scholars.
A hard read but it is well detailed and is written by an observant and aware author
As such, Bloch witnessed firsthand the ill-preparation, confusion, defeatism, and ultimate collapse of his headquarters, but he also witnessed the individual acts of courage and resourcefulness by French officers and enlisted men struggling to make ends meet amid the chaos of war.I personally found the second section of the book much more interesting.
Thus, in his capacity as a historian, Bloch turns the magnifying glass back onto his compatriot readers, suggesting that they should pursue some introspection before assigning the blame for France’s defeat only on its most immediate cause, the failure of the French military.
The first section is a short personal biography of his academic life prior to The Great War.The second section is a detailed recording of his experience as a staff officer near the front in Northern France.
Here he observes the bumbling inadequacy of the French General Staff and the generals leading the troops.The second section deals with his analysis of French society and the reasons for the collapse.Bloch became a leader in the French Resistance in 1942 and was captured, tortured and shot in 1944.This is a short but profoundly moving book.
I was disappointed in this book, although it is an important record of France's defeat in WW2--especially since the author was killed before the war ended.
I would never have bought this book if I had been able to scan it in a physical bookstore--I would have seen it was not what I wanted.
I don't want the introduction or forward(in someone else's voice) or a too-brief sample of the author's work, with cryptic chapter headings that don't really disclose the subject matter.
Amazon needs to rethink whether they are really giving enough of a preview to fairly represent the work.
I was asked to read "Strange Defeat" for a research methodology course, in conjunction with a handbook about historical writing.
Bloch wrote the book within three months of these terrible events, when the anger and the bewilderment were still raw.
Despite his personal involvement and inability to do expansive research, Bloch wrote a remarkable work that has stood quite well over the decades.
He acknowledged his biases in the first chapter, and attempted to write the most clear-eyed and objective analysis possible under the circumstances.
The result is a gripping account of the traumatic events Bloch experienced, and an analysis of those events that is still relevant today.
In the first part, Deposition d'un vaincu, he exposes the faults of the French military: lack of courage, technology, or a pragmatic and supple spirit.
In the second part, he lambastes French society as a whole for its failure to muster sufficient resistance to the Wehrmacht.
He describes a divided and complacent society, and many of his judgments, helas, still hold.
But those who would benefit most from this book are the U.S. military leaders still training for Cold War-style operations -- i.e. attacks on large nations like China -- when they should be building another armed forces.
One that can win its wars.
A positively Brilliant work! This is a no holds barred, thorough assessment of France's rapid collapse and capitulation to Germany in WWII. It should be required reading for all commisioned officers, as well as those who aspire to be one, in addition to all our federal legislators, and anyone who is a serious student of history. All the failures pointed out by Bloch can be repeated and many are being repeated by us today. Military, polictical, the media, educational, social, etc. failures are all carfully analyzed. Trust me no one goes unscathed in this incredible work.
This very personal analysis of France's defeat in 1940 by a historian who was an officer in the French army. If you like details about fuel depots, this is your book (Bloch was in charge of fuel depots for one of the French armies). Although the book can be a bit dry, it rings true to any mid-manager (such as myself) who is stifled by bureaucracy and a lack of vision.The backstory is really depressing. Bloch fought in the Resistance and was betrayed to the Germans, tortured, and shot about one week after D-Day.
Unusual primary account of France's defeat in 1940 as clandestinely written during Nazi occupation by noted historian Marc Bloch. Bloch was a WWI veteran, and also served as an officer in World War II. He writes with clarity about the miliary defeat of the French Army, and also focuses on the defeatism of the civilian population. Bloch was also member of the French Resistance, and was executed by the Gestapo on June 1944.
A short but informative look at why France fell to the Nazis in 1940 after standing up to Germany in WWI. Bloch's eventual fate makes this a particularly chilling story. At times there are hints that he realizes the story of his country may also mean personal tragedy. After describing his efforts in fuel supply, he goes on to explain what went wrong after May 10. It's not a pretty picture, but then war rarely is, and men like Marc Bloch pay the price.
Concise, thoughtful, beautifully written. Marc Bloch's last testament regarding the fall of France in 1940 still has the capacity to haunt and move as well as remaining thoughtful, historical analysis.
An incredible reading experience. Written by an historian who fought in the War, Bloch attempts to make sense of the failure of the French Republic to repulse the Nazi German invasion. Searingly thoughtful, beautifully written, sad, brave.
Checked out within sentences
While this is probably an unhelpful review, this was one of the most boring books that I read as a history major in college.
Buen material histórico. Cuando lo leí entendí muchas cosas sobre el papel de Francia que no te suelen contar en el instituto de la 2GM.
From Drew Jones - didn't finish
