https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/374671.Mommie_Dearest
Barely 2 stars for the writing but 4 stars in a fascinating character study of Christina Crawford !!
Christina Crawford was a celebrity poster child for alleged abuse done to her and siblings by film actress Joan Crawford who was her adoptive mother.
I found the character study of Christina as she writes about her life fascinating.
Here is a sample of very strange and immature writing: "Mommie dearest got her feelings hurt.
Joan Crawford was one of the stars in one of my favorite movies with her nemesis Bette Davis and here is a brief clip of that film:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=648-2...Twisted sisters all the way around huh ??
Not because people didnt like the book.
But because the nerve of some people to choose sides as if they know either parties.
People are abused everyday and they have so much support, but the second someone is abused by someone rich, famous, and beautiful; everyone wants to debate it and take the side of the popular.
But even if she fabricated or made the whole thing up, obviously there was some things going on behind closed doors that were pretty ugly that would make a person want to ruin the last memory of the only mother she knows.
The book may not have been a challenge to read, but nonetheles it was good storytelling.
It is a tell all from Joan Crawford's eldest adopted child, Christina.
Christina speaks in depth about her mother's strict discipline which included: harsh chores, seclusion, and "being nearly beaten to death." Does anyone remember the cult classic movie "Mommie Dearest?" "NO MORE WIRE HANGERS!"So Christina tells of this tale about how she suffered at the hands of her mother, who forced Christina to address her as "Mommie Dearest." Some of the incongruous statements by Christina:1) Her mother ALWAYS made her wear white gloves when she goes out in public; as written in the story and listed under one picture of her wearing white gloves.
Written by a grown woman, the first of Joan Crawford's adopted children, the book reads like one big whine-a** 13yr old journal entry.
Joan Crawford saw this statement for what it was: parents were sending their offspring to make friends with Christina Crawford on purpose so they could come see a celeb in their natural habitat and get as many autographed pictures as they could (to sell).
The book was clearly written to rip apart her adopted mother's hard earned image and reputation as revenge for not inheriting a fortune she did nothing to earn.
The emotional manipulation especially -- the child constantly reaching, constantly feeling that if she does one more thing or something a little better that longed-for love and acceptance from mom will finally come, and the shattering that occurs when one realizes it never will.
Joan obviously thought of herself as the long suffering, martyred, giving mother who got no gratitude from her evil, selfish, ungrateful child.
And Christina so obviously sees HERSELF as the long suffering, martyred, giving child who got no gratitude from her evil, selfish, ungrateful mother.
I can't say that she certainly wasn't cruel to her child because I wasn't there to witness any of it, but from reading this book, which is full of inconsistencies, repetitive moments of self-pity and a style that evokes feelings of a horror novel rather than a memoir, I can definitely say that personally I think Christina Crawford is just another Augusten Burroughs, exaggerating and embellishing what might just be a typical scenario of a mother and daughter who didn't get along and taking it way too far.
This book taught me to never, ever, use wire hangers! o.OI believe Christina's story. She was emotionally and physically abused by Joan Crawford. No doubt in my mind. The only reason Joan's twin daughters didn't talk was because they had "hush" money. SurvivorSurvivor No Safe Place: The Legacy of Family Violence
Good movie, not so good book.I don't doubt that even some of the more severe abuse took place, but that really isn't the issue.
It's harder to take the real abuse seriously when the author is complaining about every single thing her mother ever said and did for the duration of her life.At one point she says her mother is treating her brother "hatefully" because he isn't allowed to trample the flowers in the flower beds while playing with friends, and because he is only allowed to ride his bike around their gigantic back yard.
Joan Crawford like many stars of her day had a carefully crafted image.
What amazed me the most about this book was that Christina still came across as loving her mother very much even after enduring horrific abuse.
Most children who are abused still love their parents which is something that puzzles me.
What I found most convincing was when Christina told of her mother's lesbian leanings.
I can see where Joan could be a brutal person but at times be warm and tender, this book shares both sides.
I grew up watching the Joan Crawford movies, my parents were fans.
When I saw this book out, I had to snap it up and read it.It was a very good book even if the content was not only surprising but upsetting.To know a child has been abused and not much was done to help her is sad.To know someone is such a well respected woman and is doing the abusing and getting away with it, got away with it, was/is criminal.I'm glad Christina wrote the book so all could see the truth about her mother.
I don't doubt that she mistreated her children but there are so many conflicting stories, and I felt that some of the things in the book didn't really add up (largely - if Christina grew up abused and under such duress due to her abusive mother - which she was seemingly aware of enough to write a book about it - HOW were they so close and loving for so many years when Christina was an independant adult?
She was smart enough to know and understand what she had been through, she was no longer dependant on her mother, and yet she wrote a fairly loving account of their later years together?).They were both strong willed, succesful women, and I'm curious to learn more about Joan Crawford as well.
Anyway, I bought the movie on DVD sometime last year and after watching it and falling in love with it all over again, I decided to track down the original book by Christina Crawford and find out the real story behind the infamous wire coat hangers etc.I expected the book to be less theatrical, less...
I think the relationship between Joan and Christina is absolutely fascinating and I would love to know the truth.
It examines Hollywood at that time from a unique angle, sheds light on parts of Joan's life that not many knew about and is, in my opinion, well written and entertaining.My final word on it is that if you love the movie, you HAVE to read this too.
I'd watched the movie several times and honestly, I laughed at most of the over the top scenes.
The whole issue of child abuse was lost on me in the movie.
When Joan Crawford lays into Christina over the wire hangers I tried to figure how an 8 year old got a hold of wire hangers.
Other scenes that came across as humorous and turned the movie Mommie Dearest into a cult classic made more sense in the book and brought home the often too hidden issue of child abuse.
Reading Christina's words was a glimpse into my other narcissistic mother's machinations.
I highly recommend reading Mommie Dearest.
Some great scenes in this book that show Joanie to be the crazy broad we all hope she actually was.
However in a good chunk of the book Christina Darling bores us with her 'acting' career and life.
However she did come up with more gems than Bette Davis's daughter.....Bette was mainly just scathing and difficult.I saw the movie before I read the book so in my mind Faye Dunaway is Crazy ol' Joan.
But if you only want to read the book or watch the movie, watch the movie.
The movie compacts all the best stuff into a convenient 1 1/2 hours without excessive sections about Tina Darlings life.
It’s like Stockholm Syndrome in a way.That being said the various angry, bitter and all in all overemotional online comments and reviews about the accounts in this book – including the accusation that Christina was a “coward” for publishing it after Joan’s death – are quite stomach-turning.These enablers are often the reason that people like Christina have to endure horrific abuse for many more years without the psychological assistance they would require and deserve.True to the old adage “What may not be cannot be” they attack the victim rather than the perpetrator.
I'm a big fan of old Hollywood but I do not like Joan Crawford.
Joan was trying not to have her turn into a spoiled Hollywood child (which obviously she did).
- Joan was known for her thank you cards.
She wasn't being asked to do anything that every other Hollywood child wasn't doing.- And the worst is that she got in trouble for getting caught having sex when she was 12 and complains her mother should have understood.
What mother is okay with their 12 year old daughter having sex?!This girl was adopted.
Narrative nonfiction, biography of Joan Crawford, autobiography of Christina Crawford, exposé of the dysfunctional family life of a famous person.
Joan Crawford had a drinking problem; that is not much of a surprise.
Whether it was bipolar disorder or even borderline personality disorder or something else, the problems made for a horrific life at times for both Joan as well as her adopted children, her husbands, and anyone else in her life on a regular basis.Well-done book.
Such a crazy story. Very interesting to see the point of view of a girl raised by a psycho. Also a little disgusted how she forgives her later in life, but also not surprising since some people just can't let go of a person who has abused them all their lives. I enjoyed the story though, gives you plenty of information about a mad woman.
Why did I reread this stinker? Because I wanted to read Christina Crawford's book Survivor, but this was all they had at the library. I could not be more sympathetic toward the author (or anyone with a schizophrenogenic parent or who experienced abuse of any kind as a child). However, this book is bad. I'm kind of thinking never mind about reading Survivor.
Mamãe era bem mais louca que a Crawford, mas aposto que ninguém quer ouvir meus choramingos.
This book was awesome...definitely a HUGE insight to Ms Joan Crawford..I'd been searching for an affordable copy of this book for 3 years through my local trade in bookstore...my friend happened to find it before me & was kind enough to let me read it first.
I think Ms Joan Crawford was an interesting and savvy business woman but she also had a lot of personal demons that she carried with her & took out her anger against them through her children.
A very insightful book...glad to have read it..now if I can talk my friend into letting me keep it on my bookshelf instead of hers?!!!
A vicious story of an unhinged adoptive mother.
The story was written by her adopted daughter Christina and it paints a very abusive picture.
The pain that the book shared was a terrible situation for these little children to be caught up in.
Joan Crawford was depicted as a woman that wanted to have a perfect image for the news and magazines, but kept the children from enjoying life with her dictatorial ways.
Taking presents away after Christmas pictures and other mean acts were some of the memories that Christina Crawford shared in the book.
the book goes through to her mother's death and beyond.
It is a haunting story.
It's difficult to judge the veracity of Christina's heartbreaking story since so many others have disputed it.
In fact, I have read other Crawford biographies whose authors directly attack Christina for defaming her ultra glamorous, Oscar-winning mother.It seems all that can be said for certain is that mother and daughter had, at the very least, a troubled relationship and one can readily believe that Joan, given the tragedies of her own early life, was a less than ideal parent.
Whether she was the monster Christina depicts in Mommie Dearest, we may never know.
I'm having a hard time picking a star rating because I couldn't put this book down, and I think you should read it, but at the same time it's really just a two-dimensional, disjointed laundry list of horrifying events. It's like reading the tabloids.
I was a teen-ager when I first read this book and have read it a few more times since my teens. I grew up with a borderline disordered mother and I could identify with Christina's story. It was one of the first times I understood that there were other children who lived such a confusing life.
Obligatory.
I read this when I was a kid during the summer at my father's house. It made... an impression. One time my step-mother took me along on a nosy day of looking at mansions for sale and we got to go inside the house where most of this book takes place.
Awful woman. Classic narcissist before we knew the term. Well written.
Honestly, although my family life is probably the best anyone could ever imagine or hope for, for other reasons I can say that I even empathize with her feelings of desperation.Yet one cannot help but wonder who was really right in this story.
Either way, from reading the book and watching the movie, I do get the feeling that Christina was rather rebellious, more-so than the strict parenting styles of the 40's and 50's would allow, ungrateful, disrespectful, and rather hellbent on pushing her mother's buttons every time she could.
Woah, just woah. Not certain how much I believe this book was true versus anger/grief/hurt (since she wrote this a year after her mother's passing) but it was quite a gripping read. Highly dysfunctional family. Better than the movie that I barely recall watching ages ago.
