https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28735.By_the_Sword
By the Sword follows Kerowyn's life from the time she is about 16 years old until she arrives in Valdemar (early 30s?).
By the Sword starts at a pivotal time for Kerowyn: her older brother is getting married which will bring great change to her home.
Readers of Lackey's Vows and Honor series will be excited to run into the magical sword Need again - this time passed from Kethry to her granddaughter Kerowyn.
There's much to recommend in By the Sword but new readers should be aware that Mercedes Lackey refrains from getting too dark in her Valdemar series.
Previous Valdemar reading is not really required, but it fits in nicely to the "modern" story arc and leads into the next trilogy in a number of ways without losing its feeling of completeness.It's not perfect - the middle section drags a little, in my opinion, the logistics of the main romance feel implausible, and the recurring musing on why good people need to fight is terribly unsubtle and awfully repetitive - but they are relatively minor flaws (especially coming off the comparatively clumsy Arrows trilogy.) It's a very solid book, and probably the first one I would hand to someone interested in Valdemar.
Kind of Tarma and Keth ride again, for fans of those series.
She died when Kerowyn was young, and she grows up in her father's house, feeling out of place, unaware of her heritage or birthright.Her father is attacked, and Kerowyn rides out, bringing the killers to justice and protecting the family's lands, which are now her brother's, in the process.
She winds up accepting a contract to help Valdemar defend itself from attack, and the novel interesting combines the Vows and Honor story line with the Valdemar series.
I love Kerowyn and you see her in many of the other Valdemar books so if you have read those and wonder how she became who she is, this book tells her story.
Tarma basically takes Kerowyn under her wing and hones her into a deadly weapon and gives her the confidence to go out and make a living on her own and not depend on a man to take care of her.The second half of the book is Kerowyn’s entry into a mercenary guild, her rise in the ranks and eventually the job that takes her into Valdemar to meet the Heralds and Companions.
I had reread the old ones so much and the new ones didn't have the same allure.
It was time for new favorites.Still, eventually nostalgia called, and I looked up my old friends to find you really can't go "home" again.
Books that had made me alternately joyous and heartbroken were distressingly flat and transparently cliché.Well, it doesn't matter, I thought.
It was with some surprise I found that, for me, they best stood the test of time.Back in the day, I recall that By the Sword disappointed me a little.
This is one of my most favorite of the Valdemar books; it's really a stand-alone adventure, and yet it fits so smoothly into the other stories. Highly recommended.
I have a friend who refused to read GRR Martin because it's "boy fantasy."When I asked her for an example of non-boy fantasy, she pointed out, among others, this book.I was expecting a strong female in distinctly female situations, perhaps with more intrigue or relationship focus, but this book out boys the boys.
It is probably the most manly fantasy I've ever read--battles, camping, training, military life.
The only thing that's really female about it is that the main character is a woman.She's a woman who's good at everything manly: riding, hunting, killing.
The story is so militantly feminist (women can and probably should do anything) that it was a little insulting.One thing I can say, though.
Lackey is one of my favorite authors ever and Kero is probably my all-time favorite chracter. I started reading her in 8th grade but I will still pull out her books to reread them. Her character building is really her main strength – you want to meet her characters – which is probably why I always reach for her books as a pick-me-up, it’s like talking to old friends.
And in the last section, her company ends up fighting for Valdemar.The main characterisation is around Kerowyn and her internal dialogue though there is the odd scene from another point of view such as her old friend Deryn.
One example of this style is that, although there is a scene where Kerowyn goes back home after she has started her training and she reflects on how the people around the table are strangers to her now and view her as embarrassing or alarming or whatever, she doesn't actually show any of this from character interaction.
It traces the arc of Kerowyn's life - she starts off managing the house as her brother has his wedding feast.
(This is all at the start of the book - the rest is her growing to experience the world.)I like Mercedes Lackey's writing in general, and this was in line with her usual style.
We don't really find out about other characters or their motivations (for instance, Shallan is a loyal friend, but we don't get many scenes between Kero and Shallan).
This is a book focused solidly on the main character and her arc.
One of my favorite YA books of all time, and my absolute favorite in the Valdemar series. Kero is such a fantastic character, and her development throughout the novel is rich, well paced, and exciting. I've read this book at least a dozen times, both as an adult and adolescent, and I still had a hard time putting the book down reading it again! Everything is just so on point in this book! One of my all-time favorites :-)
Damn that was good. Really really good
Because up until that point, so many fantasy novels that I'd read showed either the overblown or the gritty tactics of warfare from the viewpoint of someone who'se brilliant, talented, a star general, and little to no backstory on how he got there.
For all their errors and imperfections, I still love them to death, adore the world created and the stories told in it, and wouldn't want to be without them.As a standlone, this is a book that can be skipped over without missing any major plot points, since some of Kero's backstory is mentioned again in subsequent Valdemar novels.
Like most of Lackey's Valdemar novels, By the Sword draws rather heavily on traditional high fantasy tropes in order to advance its plot.
I can't hold this against the book though since the use of traditional fantasy plot devices is one thing I love about this author's work.
Since side character successfully fulfill their roles, and rarely feel shoehorned in, I do not mind this.
My only real complaint is that the second half of the book feels rather thin.
The ending is something that most readers of the Valdemar books will probably see coming.
In the end though, the closing events feel rushed.
Re-read this today as I was hanging around the hospital and none of the books really fitted or could be found. This is a good book insofar as brain free entertainment goes, particularly as I've read it before. Its the usual Valdemar fare - incredibly noble people having adventures in a slightly grubby land, with a mostly intelligent if complicated romance and a few fights. Kerowyn's one of the better of Lackey's leads, thanks to less angst and more cynicism, which helps smooth over a not-stellar plot. Wish she'd done more with her. Anyway, fun book.
Kerowyn is an attractive heroine to me almost in spite of her physical prowess and mercenary attitude. Her driving desire is freedom, and her motto is that she "can live without________." She doesn't dislike comfort, she simply needs to be self sufficient. So I like her. And since this is a novel of Valdemar, after she fights in several wars and endures many hardships she gets to have a magical mind reading horse that loves her and will be her best friend forever.
I started reading Lackey with Children of the Night and the Diana Tregarde books, but this was the first Valdemar book I ever read.I liked it so much I next hunted down the Tarma & Kethry novels, then the short stories (was thrilled when Oathblood collected their short stories!) then continued on to the actual Valdemar books.Kero is my fav character from these books.RE-read 12/7/2003re-read 10/7/2014
The only thing that bothers me about the series is some inconsistency with the time line. If you read Exiles Valor and then read this, the stories about the betrayal of the prince are different. Probably not something I would have picked up on if I had recently reread everything up until this point.
This is one of my favorite books written by Mercedes Lackey. The main character is a wonderful, free spirited, strong willed young girl who is thrown into greatness by unfortunate circumstances and finds her calling in life.This is one of the books by Mrs. Lackey that I can read over and over again.
Can we say, Xena, warrior princess? This is what Kerowyn's Tale reminded me of ...a warrior princess. Even the slight undertones of f/f made me feel like I'm reading about Xena. Since this came before Xena, I'm thinking someone is a fan of Ms. Lackey when they created the Xena series.Kerowyn kick's butt and she's good at overcoming obstacles. I like it.
Rereading Mercedes Lackey books because I'm in great need of comfort reading, and Lackey is one authour I can always turn to for that. By the Sword is actually one of my favourite Lackey novels. I love the lead character, Kerowyn, and I like the exploration of the life of a mercenary fighter in Lackey's world of Velgarth.
This falls solidly into the category of "tough as nails female fighter who doesn't need no man to tie her down". But on the whole it is still enjoyable, and all the difficulties are neatly tied up by the end. There are still a few mysteries, though.
Kerowyn never expected a betrothal feast to launch her on a lifelong adventure that would be plagued with annoying bards,demons, feminist magic swords, blood mages and a mercenary life but hey...at least it wasn't her betrothal...Another Valdemar hit!
One of the best out of the Herald's of Valdemar series!
Gah, I had to return the kindle version of this. It was irritating to read, so full of type errors!
I don't even know why I read this. Oh well.
Faaaaaave. Stands up to a reread.
Still an excellent epic, many times read, years later
It was altogether very enjoyable, but I have to admit I would have preferred a slower pace.If I had to voice any complaints and/or questions to the author, it would be about a particular plot point (spoiler alert: Kero being chosen in her thirties; I somehow can't get behind the fact that some can muck a field and be chosen, whereas a girl who goes on a desperate quest to save her brother's fiancé has to "learn" about risking herself for others).
I enjoyed this one a lot, but it was pretty slow to get going.
I enjoyed seeing Tarma and Kethry again, and really found myself amused by the different Herald Companions.
The different personalities were amusing for me.
Probably my favorite section was when she was going through Karse, that was interesting.
Eldan was a good match for her in my opinion as they just clicked and could try to keep the other out of trouble.
All in all, I enjoyed the book a lot.
I won't rush to reread it, but if the opportunity comes along later on I would enjoy doing so.
