https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31181.Breathing_Lessons
Set during a single day, it tells the story of Maggie and Ira Moran, a middle-aged Baltimore couple who set out one morning to attend the funeral of the husband of Maggie’s best friend, Serena, in Deer Lick, Pennsylvania, 90 miles away.Maggie, who’s got an (over)active imagination, also gets it into her head to visit Fiona, her ex-daughter-in-law, and her grandchild.
Don't be surprised if you start questioning whether Maggie did the right thing at a critical moment in Fiona's (and Jesse's) life.This isn’t the showiest book I read in 2015.
Dnf @ 24%I cannot get into this book. I don't understand how this won a Pulitzer...
This is the second novel by Anne Tyler that I read and I'm happy to say I enjoyed it much more than The Vinegar Girl.Some quick thoughts:- the main characters, Ira and Maggie Moran, were very relatable and recognisable.
Maggie is a busybody, helpful, chatty, well-meaning, a bit scattered at times.
Ira is the "level-headed" one, a bit taciturn, serious, almost permanently annoyed with his wife's chattering, interference, and small manipulations (and he's not even aware of half of them).
- the Morans squabble and get annoyed with each other; they misunderstand each other, jump to conclusions, see things differently.
Breathing Lessons is about a couple, Maggie and Ira, who has been married for 28 years.
It made me appreciate my mother more that I called her up a day after I’ve finished reading the book.
It is just different from the first two books and I admire Anne Tyler more because she does not stick to one structure or one formula.
I think that it is for those who leave relationship for the reason that they could not breath.
Anne Tyler knows and they are the lessons that she will make you reflect on while reading this book.
Did they really give her the Pulitzer for this thing?! How utterly appalling! This may qualify as the stupidest book I have ever read. I did not like even one of the characters. Not one! They were annoying and weak and petty. I really wanted to hurl Maggie from the highest bridge just to get her to SHUT UP! Dumb dumb dumb dumb story. Shouldn't have bothered to finish it, but I did. So...more fool me.

I bought this book in college, right after it won the Pulitzer in 1989.
yeah, like I really want to read about an old married couple, fighting in their car.
I not only did NOT continue to read it, I sold it at a used book store.
I reminded myself that it HAD won a Pulitzer, and I was determined to read it this time.I still struggled with the first 25 pages.
It's laugh-out-loud funny at times, and incredibly poignant at others.
This book is an incredible (and often hilarious) testament to marriage.
Una historia que va surgiendo de los recuerdos y vivencias que marido y mujer tienen, no siempre coincidentes, a lo largo de un largo día; uno de esos matrimonios que sobreviven con una inquebrantable mala salud de hierro gracias y a pesar de Ira y, sobre todo, de Maggie, personaje central y magistral de una novela que Anne Tyler escribió en estado de gracia y que mereció el premio Pulitzer de 1989.
Es inevitable, como una maldición, siempre nos serán necesarios los ejercicios respiratorios.
I want to remind them that a) these people are, umm, fictional and b) a diverse mix of characters drives a story, makes it interesting.
When a reader doesn't like a protagonist because she's "too whiny," or can't find sympathetic traits or reasons why the bad guy acts as he does--or worse, proposes changes for a character's personality to make the story "better"-- I tend to disregard the reader, as someone who wants to read the same story, with the same stock characters, over and over.And now--I'm going to be that person.
Not bad people, but clueless.And Maggie was the heart of the story, on stage every page.
To tell you the truth, I can't really see that much merit in this book, although I will admit that Tyler's writing style is skillful.
Nevertheless, this novel reminded me a little of Gustave Flaubert's philosophy when he began writing Madame Bovary.
He said, "I want to write a book about nothing." Well, that's kind of what we get with Breathing Lessons.
Well, read the novel for its insight and style, but, again, remember what Flaubert said, and don't expect too much from the plot.
Maggie, with her scatterbrained ways and her just slightly irritating – but good-hearted – attempts to make everything right for everyone....
I love the way Tyler reveals her characters to the reader.
I am irritated by Maggie, and yet I love her.
I want to shake Ira, and yet I love his patient forebearance, and that he still tries to please Maggie.
Loving someone is more challenging … especially when he can’t find the dishwasher though it’s right there under the counter where he leaves the dirty dishes.” Ira and Maggie have learned to look past “the dishes” and love one another anyway.
Their lives may be ordinary; the novel is anything but.
An enjoyable enough story but honestly not my favorite of Anne Tyler's.
Sometimes it's funny to me how the most popular or award-winning books from an author or the ones that end of resonating with me the least.
Though to be fair most of this story is about a 28-year long marriage and a meddlesome older woman, and I just didn't really click with her as a character or care for her all that much.
Generally, though, I do love Tyler's characters and despite her stories often being plotless, she is able to capture my attention.
Not a bad book by any means, but not her best.
In this story, we are introduced to Ira and Maggie Moran, a couple married for 28 years who have two grown children....
but in that day, we are given access to a lifetime of memories from Ira and Maggie's lives.
If you have ever taken a lengthy car trip with anyone, you will appreciate the atmosphere and the dynamics of Ira and Maggie alone in a car for a couple of hours...
We learn much about Ira and Maggie's marriage on this car trip.
Because each retreats to their own thoughts and memories, we learn how Ira and Maggie met and we learn of their early years together.
This novel is a day in the life Maggie and Ira Moran, who have been married for 28 years.
Although the action of the novel is contained within that one day, the narrative explores the relationship between Maggie and Ira as they reflect upon their lives and their marriage.
Although I don’t think I’m like Maggie or Ira – or at least, I hope I’m not like them - as someone who has been married to the same person for thirty-five years, I identified with some of their dilemmas.
It was great to discover a “new” Anne Tyler novel.

I used to read Tyler a lot; I loved "The Accidental Tourist", liked "Saint Maybe" and "A Patchwork Planet", found "Celestial Navigation" almost unbearably sad, and had read eight of her novels all told.
The main characters, a married couple named Maggie and Ira, seemed OLD.
Is anyone under eighty actually named "Ira"?) is a stock husband character who is designated as the sensible one, and yet he lets his scatterbrained, meddlesome wife Maggie call all the shots while he stands around griping and making faces but doing as he's told all the same.
(In general I seem to like her 1980s work the best.) The main action takes place all on one day, as Maggie Moran and her husband Ira travel from Baltimore up to Pennsylvania to attend the funeral of her childhood friend’s husband and pay a visit to their son’s ex-wife and their granddaughter.Of course, circadian narratives are so clever because they manage to interleave sufficient flashbacks to fill in the background.

My first Anne Tyler and so absolutely blank about her style.
Well, I am totally loving her characterization and plot layout.
You learn about the characters as the day progresses, and nothing seems to be like what you first thought it to be.
There is a humor that pervades the story the same way certain thoughts or emotions tickle up tears.
This is reality written the best way ever, very realistic and relatable.
It sort of came to me at a right time to evaluate self, relationships and parenting.
Totally loved the ending.
Very difficult to choose a single favorite character, loved Maggie and Ira through and through.
The first part is the drive to the funeral that Maggie and Ira attend told from Maggie's POV; the second part the drive home told from Ira's; the third part the coming together of themes and events that occur along the way.I esp.
The two marriages under scrutiny--Maggie's and Ira's mature and solidified; their son Jesse's and daughter-in-law Fiona's immature and currently broken--play off of each other illuminating both character and theme.
A secondary theme is identity, and here too, there is exquisite poignancy in the revelation of each character's search for self-definition and the conclusions drawn.
Tyler has a unique talent for seamlessly weaving dialogue, characterization and theme together.
Perhaps because I thought the cover looked nice and dreamy.
Birds - check.
Infinity sign - check.
A couple taking a roadtrip that allows them to view each other in a new light - check.
Remind me to not go for covers (which I think I will regardless).I think I am not really the demographic this book is intended for, but boy was this a tough read.
Somewhere around the middle, I actually skimmed through a couple-forty pages and still the plot had gone nowhere; the lengthy dialogue and meaningless supermarket trip added nothing.
Pulitzer in 1989.
Bittersweet story of a family, a marriage, a woman's life, both humorous and tragic in its dreams unrealized.
I needed breathing lessons when I was done.
I wasn't sure whether to smile or cry.
Tyler offers a glimpse of the poignant emotional depths of ordinary living.
Maggie Moran is the pivotal character.
She is also one who tries to fix things when the imperfections of life serve up unhappiness.
Tyler unfolds pieces of this intricate puzzle in quiet increments.
In the end, the people and events surrounding Maggie act as mirrors and her vision comes into a bit more realistic focus.
Generally Pulitzer Prize winner’s books highlight some aspect of American Life.
This book takes place in one day in Philadelphia area as a husband and wife travel by car to and from funeral of a friend.
The book consists of the conversations and actions of this husband and wife as they drive and the people they mix in with.
Husband and wife have moments of tenderness but overall the book is about their miscommunications.
The husband (father) doesn’t talk much but when he does it is brutally honest and hurts other people.
As a husband, to be more tuned into communication.
Вторая половина книги как-то труднее далась. Очень грустно читать о неблагодарных детях и неизбежном распаде семьи, о невозможности повернуть свою жизнь обратно, чтобы сделать нечто Важное. Боже, а может мне страшно было читать эту книгу, потому что я узнала в её героях себя и своих близких?
Look, maybe my rating is too harsh.
Maybe when I'm 50-something, with kids, and am too well-meaning to face actual facts and listen to what people are actually saying before coming to conclusions and jumping to action, and am too intrusively optimistic to tell things truthfully (choosing instead to dress facts up in order to needle people into doing what I think they need to do), and am too indignant to ever admit liability or fault for anything, I will enjoy this book.Until then, 1.5/5 (no half stars so listed as a 1), also this is one of the most @()%ing irritating paragraphs I've ever read towards the end of a book:"So here she was alone.
My favorite theme running through this book was the idea of "human wastefulness." It's not talking about physical wastefulness, but the idea that people waste so much time on things that don't matter.
“For the past several months now, Ira had been noticing the human race’s wastefulness.
People were squandering their lives, it seemed to him.
It was a theme that emerged wherever he turned, as if someone were trying to tell him something.”This won the Pulitzer in 1988.
Although not packed with action, and without a main character to root for, this book still kept me reading.
The dialogue and thoughts of the characters was truly realistic.
Anne Tyler is one of my favorite authors and this book sums up why. She can take the most ordinary of people on a slightly ordinary day and make it feel like an epic world. The main character, Maggie, is meddling, controlling, and a fudger of the truth — and I loved her. She was completely unable to see reality and move on. Her hope for things remaining the same or for going back to what used to be was sort of hard because haven’t we all been there, yearning for what will never be again.
La storia si snoda nell'arco di una giornata, ma è costellata di digressioni e flash back che educono il lettore sulla vita dei coniugi Moran e sui loro figli.
Tutti gli sforzi di Maggie sono tesi a ché Jesse, il primogenito, si riconcili con la ex moglie e la bambina di cui è padre.I coniugi Moran concludono la giornata nella loro abitazione; nel buio della sera una casetta con la luce accesa fra le altre case in un quartiere residenziale di Baltimora: vite tra le vite e le altre sembrano tutte migliori della loro.Lo stile ricorda il minimalismo americano di Cheveer, Carver e Updike: è il silenzio, più che le parole, a prevalere.
I loved this book.
It felt deeply personal and almost intrusive.
It felt as though I was the fly on the wall, listening to private conversations and spying on Maggie and Ira. I have not read any books by Tyler before now, and I am so glad to have finally gotten to this one.
The writing is languid and intimate.
The story is a slow-burn, and the characterization is complex and profound.
I know Maggie.
I know Ira. And, while they are both flawed and often unlikable I still came away from the book liking both of them.
I haven’t written a review for this book because I’m not exactly sure whether I liked this or not - is that even possible? I read it as part of my Pulitzer Prize challenge.On the one hand I think it was kind of a drag, and went on and on, and other the other hand i think - genius!!
