https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/649396.Strumpet_City
One of the unforgettable "characters", James Larkin, actually was the union organizer who sparked the events leading up to the Lock-out, and provided both the rallying point for the workers, and the target for the employers and every other segment of society which opposed them.Rashers Tierney, the fellow mentioned above, is one of the most vivid portrayals I've come across in a long time, a street walker, sometime street entertainer, a fellow who with his beloved dog wends his way through the story as an example of the bumpy ride down that the extreme poor of a large city, not just Dublin, endure.
James Plunkett, although not a great stylist, enriches his profound knowledge of working-class Irish history with a great love for the city of Dublin and a profound sympathy for all its inhabitants, from the wealthy to thepoor. As a consequence, this novel about the 1913 Lock-out is wise and often very moving. Plunkett is particularly good at showing how political convictions lead people to action, and how these actions in turn transform their lives and alter their relationships in unexpected ways. As such, it is a worthy descendant of the novels of Walter Scott.
"Strumpet City" is an Irish social novel published in 1969, that is good 50 years too late.
Like with any other social novel, whether it's Steinbeck or Hugo, we know where the author's sympathies lie.
And frankly I do have a soft spot for a good social novel with the pureness of its heart, its childlike stubbornness, its teenage idealism, its insistence on broadcasting all the wrongs and standing up for the little guy.
It's hard not to love 'Strumpet City', admire Fitz, pity Rashers, feel contempt for the Bradshaws, and despise Father O'Connor (oh, how wonderfully despicable he was).
There was a wonderful array of characters in the book representing all social classes, the upper class Bradshaws, the poverty-stricken inhabitants of the tenements, the workers, trade union leaders and the clergy.
I think this book/TV series should be compulsory reading/watching in all secondary schools in Ireland as it captures a most historic and important time in Ireland’s history, one which may not be familiar to a whole generation of Irish.
Strumpet City is the great social novel of Dublin.
Plunkett does for Dublin what writers like Dickens did for London.
Plunketts descriptions of the city are masterful.
While I would levy some criticism at Plunkett for his character development, he does give us Rashers Tierney.
I cannot think of Rashers match anywhere in literature and he must surely be one if the most beloved characters in Irish literature.
And for those interested there is an interesting podcast by History Ireland discussing the book and the period.
http://www.historyireland.com/podcast...
A good book of historical fiction set in Dublin and focusing on the Lockout of 1913. There are characters from all walks of life and the story relayed is realistic. The plight of the poor can not possibly leave the reader unmoved. In the foreground you have a set of fictional characters, in the background the well-known Jim Larkin. My complaint is that you can easily sort the characters into two groups - the villains and the heroes.The bottom line: I felt I ought to be more engaged than I was.
A tight little world indeed for an epic.The cast of characters is expansive enough, however; mostly families.
There are, as might be expected in an epic, many walk-ons, including King Edward VII, Jim Larkin and James Connelly, a cheery handful of rozzers and rogues, the occasional hooer (with the requisite heart of gold), and on and on, with cameos by all the leading lights of the Celtic revival and beyond.No epic is worth the handle without an epic struggle, and this is the centre of the novel: The 1913 Dublin Lockout, when Labour and Management effectively closed down the entire city, throwing thousands of the poorest out of work, ruining innumerable businesses and setting the next stage in Ireland’s long struggle for independence.
The real story is how huge events affect little people: in this, James Plunkett’s Strumpet City is successful.
I found his story heartbreaking.The writing in this book is poetic and eloquent and gives a real insight into that part of history just before the world would be plunged into the dreadful darkness of the first World War.I am wise enough to know now that these things were not 'of the past'; they are just as relevant today and if you look around you will find a Rashers Tierney existing not so far from where you live.A wonderful piece of writing.
Wow, wow, wow! I finally finished this book and, boy, was I was blown away by it! Read this if: you like epic novels; you like historical novels; you like The Ragged Trousered Philanthropist; you're interested in Ireland or want to know more about Irish history; you abhor poverty and social injustice; you want a really good read with great characters that will make you think and tug at your heart-strings.
I do not know, frankly.The 1913 lock-out -- one side cheering for Larkin, Connolly, revolution, and the other for status quo, wealth inequality, the same old landlord/tenant grumbling -- makes a fine premise at times.
realized?), but life in general can be that way just as often as literature, no?
All on page 494, near the book's end, the city's characterized in a sad yet funny way again: Rashers Tierney describes Dublin as "the most misbegotten kip of a city in the whole wide world" ['kip' defined soon after as "a resort of ill fame, a whorehouse"; for Father Griffley "it was a fitting word.
Some of the upper classes do try to help the poor and of course some of the poor are only half-hearted in their support of the strikers, desperate as they are for work.This novel does have a slightly Dickensian air about it but with less sentimentality and more humour.
Special mention should also be made of Mrs Bradshaw, an upper class lady, who while trying to help in small ways cannot see the bigger picture and would be quite content for things to sty as they are, with the poor getting occasional handouts but otherwise knowing their place.I am surprised a book like this got past the censor in the 60's as not only is one of the characters a prostitute but there are also some not so charitable remarks made regarding the church.Another noteworthy aspect of this book is Plunkett's treatment of women.
Wow!I enjoyed reading this book.It was rich in themes which range from socialism, trade-unions, strikes, police bruatlity, religion, poverty etc.It is based on the period before world war I.
We are still angry and hungry, satisfied and dissatisfied, poor and rich.
They take advantage of our vulnerability and naivete and 'steal' the last coin we have.We are all living in our own strumpet cities with politicians promising us heaven when they give us hell.Sorry, we live with the hope that God is going to reward our suffering.
Our children, suffering, going hungry without even clothing.
The difference between the rich and the poor.
The story is set from 1907 to 1914 in Dublin during the Lockout, a series of strikes during what probably is the most important industrial dispute of Ireland.
Plunkett also showed exceptions in the beautifully sketched characters of Yearling, who belongs to the employers class and is not blind to the conditions of his employees, and Father Giffley, a priest who, despite his addiction, is the most empathic with his parishioners.This book has deeply moved me and I could not help but admire the cohesion and comradeship of a community, deprived of rights and education, but rich in integrity and tightly clung to its dignity.
This book details the poverty of inner city Dublin at the turn of the 20th century. It was recently the One City One Book read in Dublin, resurrecting a book that was published in 1969. It is reminiscent of the book A Fine Balance about India, though A Fine Balance manages to be more heart-wrenching and even more hopeless. Despite being the story of the Great Lockout of 1913, it lacked some depth regarding the lockout.
Bleak, but very readable.
I picked this up in Dublin's peerless Books Upstairs bookshop near to Trinity College as I was in the mood for an historical novel set in the Irish context.
There are similarities to  The Ragged Trousered Philanthropists  given that it is a tale of working class life and strife in the early twentieth century and the book's events are the real life ones of the Dublin lock out in the years before World War I and the Revolution.
Although it wasn't so much the fascination at the time, the novel would have benefitted from the deployment of working class argot - at times, one simply forgets that the characters are Irish at all.
I’ve recently read three substantial novels dealing with strikes or similar struggles: Frank Noris’ The Octopus, Zola’s Germinal, and now Strumpet City.
Something like one third of the population of Dublin was living in dire poverty at that time, but you would never know it from Ulysses, which is mercilessly middle-class.
Characters in Ulysses are hard up for money, but it is in a middle-class way, not the edge of starvation.
The time when I thought most often of Joyce was in the sections devoted to any one of the three priests that are important in Strumpet City.
Strumpet City, written by James Plunkett, is a historical fiction novel set during the early 1900’s in Dublin before and during World War I.
Plunkett’s use of juxtaposing scenarios and tones in nearly the entirety of the novel maintains the reader’s interest by evoking decision-making.
Plunkett also provides relief in the melancholy tone of the labor through Mary and Fitz’s passionate love for each other and the fact that it never fails although in hardship it might seem to falter.I would recommend this novel for the history buff who enjoys immersing themselves in the protagonist’s situation.
'Strumpet City' is one of the finest 'historical' novels I have read this year, set in early 20th century Dublin, during the infamous 1913 lock-outs, the book expertly draws the reader into the social upheavals which informed the everyday lives of Dubliners - irrespective of class - during the years 1907-13.The portrait painted is of a city of extremes, both of poverty (The Inner City) and wealth (Kingstown).
I thoroughly enjoyed the read and would recommend it to anyone with an interest in the social history of Dublin - despite the fact it is a novel it certainly introduce the reader to the themes which one imagines would have informed the historical events upon which its narrative is based.
Well I finished it but I must admit it was a struggle.
I finished it as it was nominated as a Book Club read and out of respect to the person who nominated it, I didn't want to give up half way.I did like the characters, my favourites were Fitz, Rashers and Yearling.
The change in the seasons also came through very well in the book, going from summer to autumn to winter.I am glad I had the opportunity to read this book as I believe it is an important work.
A very moving and personalised telling of the affects of the 1913 Dublin Lock-outNo harsh reality ar
James Plunkett created some of the most well-rounded and true-to-life characters in all of Irish literature. From the frostiness and superiority of the morally superior business class ensconced in Kingstown to the tenement dwellers who eked out an existence in Europe's most miserable slums, this epic saga tells the story of Ireland's struggle to define its destiny, and of the conflicted interests among its clergy, businesspeople and the mass of the working people. Set against the background of the 1913 Lockout we witness the strikers descending into starvation and country teetering on the edge of chaos. A must-read...
An outstanding epic novel that shed a fascinating yet challenging insight into the lives of ordinary people in Dublin prior to the Easter Rising in 1916.
Plunkett followed the stories of several characters from different strata of society through the political turmoil and clashing ideals of the era.
I loved the book and couldn't put it down - it reminded me of the novels of one of my all-time favourite authors, Emile Zola.
It is a must read for everyone and an important work that presents the plight of the Irish at that time in a completely readable format.
A must read - a great book - am I glad I read it? Yes. Would I recommend it? Yes. Will it make it to my list of personal favourites? No. Why not? I thought the character of Rashers was excellent, but I was less enthused about some of the other characters. I learnt about some Irish her/history I didn't know much about. The descriptions of poverty and oppression were detailed and instructive. As good as Tolstoy and Dostoevsky? Not in my opinion ...but a good effort.
I rounded up; for me, the first third was the strongest part of the story: more atmospheric, more emphasis on character development...Still, fascinating subject! I had a great-great-uncle who was a part of the Lockout. I have a feeling this book is very noteworthy in Ireland & the UK, but it doesn't seem to be as well known in the US, which surprises me.
This is such a great read , if you want to Know what life was like in Dublin slums how the Catholic Church had a firm hand on the working classes , from the rich streets of Kingstown to the tenements of Chandelor court it is a epic read with Richly layered characters the will make you hate , love cry and feel shame that people had to live is such circumstances .
For anyone ever tempted to read Leon Uris's appalling "Trinity", read "Strumpet City" instead. Plunkett's collection of short stories, "The Trusting and the Maimed" is also worthwhile; 'Janey Mary', probably one of the best known stories, was made into a short film last year. It's online at this site -http://www.ireland-information.com/ir...
It's curious that no one has reviewed this brilliant book since 2013.
I'm not from Ireland but I did visit Dublin last year and decided I needed to read more about it - and literature is always a great way to gain insight into a community.I'm not going to dwell on the details - there are some great reviews from earlier readers.
It has an amazing array of characters from the derelict to the upper class, from the priest to the prostitute, from the lovers to the strikers and every single one of them resonates with truth.A moving insight into Dublin at the turn of the 20th century.
I couldn’t put this down. The characters reminded me of Dickens, and the vivid depiction of Dublin during this tense and viciously divided time was absolutely riveting. I am still grieving for Rashers Tierney and his beloved dog. One for all the true believers.
Powerful, sad and sentimental. My grandparents were born in Dublin in 1910, this book brings home to me how poverty and wealth live side by side....sad that most left to escape their hideous lives to fight in WW1 and never return.
