https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17020.13_Little_Blue_Envelopes
Aunt Peg has left Ginny mysterious envelopes that she's not allowed to open all at once and strange instructions to travel around Europe.Mr. and Mrs. Disappearstone allow their seventeen year old daughter -- their only child -- to go traipsing around Europe.
I get that the aunt made Ginny's trip mimic her own eccentric path across Europe, but I should have felt there was some master intention from the author's point of view rather than constantly imagining Maureen Johnson throwing a dart at a map of Europe and going 'okay, time to buy a travel book for that country!'The writing was, unfortunately, not top notch.
2.5*This was a quick read but at the same time I felt like it dragged, nothing had any real depth so I just was questioning what the point of the story was and why these characters existed.
Unimpressive.
The way Johnson writes is annoying; more than halfway into the book, I really didn't know ANYTHING about the main character, other than that she was on a (ridiculous) journey.
It was all action and no thought.
It was not insightful.
The main character was not likeable.
She wasn't unlikeable either.
She was just like...doing things.
She didn't have very many thoughts.
And never very insightful ones (ie "I like this boy!
I am sad.
I am happy.
There was no attempt made to make her a human, a believable character.
But overall, I was not in any way impressed.
There were several instances in this book where something was mentioned and you think it is important and then it was dropped.For instance, when the MC goes in the Louvre, it is mentioned that she checks her backpack in at the front--kind of like a coat check.
If you mention a small detail like this, it should be important later.
It would've been differnt if we never saw her leave the Louvre because the reader could then assume she retrieved it.This was not the only scene that did this kind of thing.

So what's not to love about a coming of age story that involves lots and lots of traveling?It's a hard question to answer, and the fastest way to answer it is: Aunt Peg is one seriously bitter person.She lives without having constants.
The only person who can be more annoying is the one who actually does it!Unfortunately, Ginny does just that.
A lot of things seem not worth mentioning in the book, for example, why is Ginny not even remotely worried that her aunt's mystic journey might get her adbucted or killed or sold into slavery?
To start with the book has an utterly implausible set up, improbable love story, MC that is borderline stupid ....
Retarded has become synonymous with offensively describing someone with a mental illness and I am appalled that a YA author saw fit to use such a descriptor in her book.
YA books must be held to a higher standard because of their ability to influence young minds that are just figuring out this world for the first time.And to add insult to injury in the same chapter that this offensive word appears, there is an attempted robbery by what are described as gypsy children and I'm like no.
It was sort of interesting and cute.
Dead Aunt sends niece on this unpredictable and slightly loony journey.
(maybe not so cute).
One very similar to the one that her aunt took when she felt a little lost and was dealing with a bit of a reality check.
She goes through many experiences, and although it's a decent read, I just was not in love with the book.
The love interest?
I felt lack of depth might have had something to to with it.I liked it, I just didn't love it.Oh, and the holiday is going rather well so far.
I listened to this book as an audio book during my drive to New Orleans which made me dislike the book even more (I didn't enjoy the reader's voice). I enjoyed the book in the beginning but soon felt like the story was dragging and every country visited after Paris was unnecessary. I also didn't really like any character in this book, they had no depth and weren't interesting or likable. The concept of this book was so intriguing but I was disappointed.
If you've ever been to Europe, thought about going to Europe, wanted to go about Europe or even heard of Europe...you'll love this book. It's a quick, fun summer read. Very clever and warm-hearted. I love the characters, the plot and just everything about it. It always keeps you guessing. One of my favourites. Maureen never lets me down.
Ongecompliceerde YA roman...ik heb genoten...op het strand in de zon!!
It’s almost like an international road trip – who can’t appreciate that?I liked reading these envelopes for ourselves, and discovering a little bit more about her Aunt in each one.
Although sometimes, I have to admit that I found that Ginny was the kind of person who let things happen to her, rather than took advantage of them herself.
But then again, she didn’t have much guidance throughout the whole thing.What I didn’t like about the novel had to be the ending.
I didn’t agree with the choice that Ginny made in the end.
Reviewed by Dena Landon for TeensReadToo.comWhen Virginia Blackstone (Ginny) receives the first blue envelope from her Aunt Peg in the mail, it sends her on an exciting, funny, and sometimes poignant adventure that readers will be delighted to join.
The envelope contains $1,000 in cash, and the instructions to pick up a package of envelopes that start Ginny on a trip around Europe, tracing the steps of her eccentric Aunt.
The instructions are specific; no cell phones, no maps, and Ginny can only open one envelope at a time, after she's completed each task in the previous letter.
See more reviews at YA Midnight Reads Mini mini review 13 Little Blue Envelopes is a quick, light read that will intrigue young readers from the first page.
Maureen Johnson manages to pull off an entertaining story in 300 pages that may not fulfil older readers' expectations.
There were so many holes in the plot and the main character was so oblivious and annoying.
While I thought the plot line was excellent, the way it was executed was horridly poor.
All in all, I am not a big fan of Maureen's novel, it was my first one by her, and probably the last.
This book would be more aptly marketed as a book about what NOT to do on a trip abroad rather than a YA quasi-adventure/quasi-romance.
What parent lets their 17-year-old child go to Europe alone WITH NO SUPPLIES?
I'm surprised she didn't end up in a child sex trafficking ring.
I just don't get it, though: The parents of this child allowed her to go "all over the world" with no cell phone, camera, traveler's checks, no money (until she gets some in London, but they would never know that because she can't make any phone calls home), and NO CONTACTS.
It's a such amazing story! Well written, interesting and unexpected. Maureen Johnsons discriptions were so vivid I could've swore I was traveling through Europe with her. It's an easy read, and a really feel good kind of novel. All about finding yourself in the midts of unkown cities and countries. Thank you Maureen Johnson for taking me on this incredible journey.
Ginger "Ginny" Blackstone, a seventeen-year-old college-bound girl, receives a letter from her deceased aunt instructing her to pick up a package from her former apartment. The package contains twelve additional envelopes, numbered two through thirteen. As per her aunt's insistence, Ginny must open an envelope only after completing the task from the previous envelope. The first envelope sends her to London with no money, cell phone, computer or guidebook. Ginny begins her adventure.I honestly w
Ginger "Ginny" Blackstone, a seventeen-year-old college-bound girl, receives a letter from her deceased aunt instructing her to pick up a package from her former apartment.
The package contains twelve additional envelopes, numbered two through thirteen.
Ginny begins her adventure.I honestly wanted to enjoy this book much more than I did.
But aside from that personal gripe, I didn't really care for any of the characters, especially Keith.
I can't understand why Ginny cared so much for him in such a short period.
I will read the second book to see if it can drastically change my mind about this story....
Ginny visits a crazy amount of countries in this 350-page novel, including England, Scotland, Greece, France, Denmark, and Italy, to name a few.But with this constant change of scenery, I never truly felt connected with any of the characters, not even Ginny herself.
Even at the end of the book, I didn't feel like I really knew much about Ginny or her character motivation.
I had a really hard time swallowing that.Really, the only character we learn much about is Ginny's aunt, and only through her letters and what Ginny says about her.
Yeah, it's unrealistic: no parents would send their daughter off for a month with no contact, especially if she's never travelled before. But... who really cares? It's a fairy tale. A lot of the travel stuff *was* very authentic and struck a very strong chord with me. The only thing I really missed were the Canadians, although she definitely got the Taking Up With Random Australians thing. I think it would be a great book to read before traveling, or while traveling. Excellent travel feel, with just enough romance and mystery to keep you interested.
Aunt Peg is dead and the thing she left Ginny? A little blue envelope with $1000 and the instructions to buy a plane ticket. So begins the adventure! This is a lovely tale of a girl following the trail of her aunt's life and discovering herself along the way.
Not as good as the first time around
As editoras portuguesas às vezes surpreendem-me...pela negativa. Este livro foi publicado originalmente em 2005. A sua publicação em Portugal acontece 13 anos depois, numa altura em que o género YA está muito mais desenvolvido e mais focado em assuntos mais sérios e na diversidade. Tantos livros bons e aclamados foram publicados lá fora que ainda não saíram cá mas preferiram publicar isto. Não é um livro mau mas não é um livro que diga que seja prioritário dentro do género YA, mesmo dentro do romance contemporâneo juvenil há livros muito melhores.
Said aunt decides suddenly to leave her New York flat and the next thing you (the teenager) and your family know she is dead.Then an envelope comes for you (annoying little and blue) and it's from your aunt and she wants you to grab the 1000 dollars in the envelope and buy a ticket to London.
The entire book is just about Ginny (Virginia) who is possibly one of the most dull protagonists ever (just like Finley, remember her?) running around all over Europe with a backpack, very little cash and no maps.
2.5 starsI enjoyed this enough as I read it - I was sick, jetlagged and in need of something pleasantly escapist – and this book did the trick.
It’s a light, fun read and I quite like Maureen Johnson’s writing (admittedly more so in her other books than this one, though).
But ultimately I just found the story rather forgettable (and a little implausible).
I found Ginny to be a fairly delible (thank you, The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks for the neglected positive there!) character, and consequently didn’t form much of a connection with her story.
I felt that this was only an okay book from Maureen Johnson and that it paled in comparison to my favorite from her, Girl at Sea. There was a good plotline that promised adventure and romance in a foreign country that I was dissappointed to find did not exist. While it was an excellent idea, I felt the story did not develop well enough and it didn't go too in-depth. This book could have been better written but otherwise, still a good read.
13 Little Blue Envelopes by Maureen Johnson is a modern day coming of age story. It centers around Virginia 'Ginny' Blackstone, a 17 year old girl who is given a letter in a blue envelope. The letter tells her to fly to London, but she can't bring any crutches. What ensues is a fantastic adventure.Read the rest of my review here
I've no doubt that I'd thoroughly enjoy reading the side of a cereal box if Maureen Johnson wrote it.
I had been waiting to read the Little Blue Envelopes series by Maureen Johnson for a while, and I was so glad to finally get the chance his summer. The story is both cute and inspiring, and the main character transforms. In my opinion, the story should have ended with the first book, but the sequel is still interesting enough. This is the perfect book for those looking for an adventurous read.Full review on The Candid Cover
At A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: Insta.Cliff Hanger: Eh.Triggers: n/aRating: 2 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot: 7Characters: 6World Building: 5Flow:  5Series Congruity: n/aWriting: 6Ending: 6Total: 5In DeptBest Part: Paris!Worst Part: Boringggg.Thoughts Had: really!; that's how you get raped!; boredddddd.ConclusionContinuing the Series: ehRecommending: ehShort Review: Okay every time i read about a girl just going to Europe all by themselves, i just cringe.
That is how girls get either raped or sold in sex trades or murdered, but no, not in the fiction world.
In the fiction world you ALWAYS meet some boy who just drops everything to show you around and be your "guide".
Admittedly I chose  13 Little Blue Envelopes  as it happened to be cheap in the Kindle Store, knowing little about the book I plunged straight in with high expectations.
Despite assurances that Ginny's mother is strictly disapproving, especially of her wayward free spirit of a younger sister, she doesn't seem to mind that her daughter takes off on a back-packing trip across Europe with only the "there in spirit" of her dead aunt.
Furthermore, it becomes apparent all too quickly that Ginny herself is ill equipped to take a trip across the continent.
It isn't just Ginny who is ill equipped for Europe however, Johnson herself clearly wouldn't get by with her continual incorrect details about the countries her character visits.
