https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/778458.History_as_a_System_and_other_Essays_Toward_a_Philosophy_of_History
Argentina is a representative of the whole world historical, pace and also the personality of the people whose lives were much alike being in the mechanical worldiness.
Humanity needs technology to consummate tthe granted mansonry to be a kind of perfection to serve the worldliness in the lacking state.The world, in its gravest tragedy, has repected the tautology of gravest sentences of being a play of trgedy which will continue its gravest outcome into the future and to imbue the latter generations with gravest fate.
The difference between a How-To book and philosophy is philosophy is timeless.
Ortega skillfully addresses technology as a means of gauging human progress, but also gives cause for reflection.
Most technology has made our lives easier, so his question of gauging the worth of the individual by asking what people do with all the time they have saved, bears answering by everyone.
I've used quotes from his books to illustrate content within mine.
The first one was, "That is why our time, being the the most intensely technical, is also the emptiest in all human history." And this was written long before video games and action (only) movies.
I loved Man the Technician; it's insightful and compelling, and easy to read as a series of provoking lectures. History as a System was slower for me, but it actually seems to build really nicely from the arguments in the Technician piece. A few unnecessary or distracting digressions I could have done without, but I feel like I get his argument for historical reason nonetheless.
Oldum olası sevmediğim kelimeleri silip atan o berrak bakış Gasset ile tekrar yayında. Bir İspanyol'dan beklenmeyecek derecede bir ciddiyet. Bir yerden gelip bir yere gitmeyen insana insan demiyoruz. Gasset de demiyor. Tarihi yoksa insan da yok demektir, bir müessiriyetin dile dökülüşüyle yazanlar için iyi bir bakış açısı.
Unity and Diversity in Europe is admittedly a bit hard to fully appreciate as an American, but given what I know of European history, I believe I can understand what he's getting at, particularly in the necessity of different circumstances of existence, the most appropriate analogue for the U.S. being I believe the necessity of differences between a New Yorker and a Georgian, or a Mainelander's existence compared to a Californian's existence.
Gasset starts of with his ontology, proceeds to talk of the historical procession of ideas, the necessity of prior thought for the thought of later philosophers, man's relation to his history, etc.
No other reviews of this so far, probably because a discussion of these remarkable essays, or even an overview of Ortega y Gasset's work, is beyond the scope of this little text box.The identity of humankind, argues Ortega, is the history of mankind. The simplicity of his view is deceptive and sophisticated, written in a conversational style with much wit. There is much I could say in refutation of his peculiar projections about "bodhisattva culture" but, again, a review here is not the place.
Fantastic read. It starts with 'The Sportive Origin of the State' and ends with 'History as a System.' There are only four essays in this book, but they are strung together like red chili peppers, each full of philosophical fire.
He tries a bit hard to create a very concrete, rigorous system for performing historical analysis. Ultimately, that's not where one should or will find much value in these essays. His thoughts on technology, its role in human personal philosophy, and the malaise of our time are all phenomenal.
3'5.Un ensayo filosófico fácil de entender, de mano de uno de los más famosos pensadores y escritores españoles.
such an amazing, must read book
Recommended by Sigal.
