https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10533446-the-crime-wave-at-blandings
PG Wodehouse's first crime novel or short story?
Well, not exactly.
But what it is (again and again) is Wodehouse's genius in conveying a small world and expanding that world to the reader in such a hysterical manner.
I started reading this book on the plane trip to Los Angeles, and now just finished reading it.
Even in my jet-lag position, I can see his world makes some sort of sense.
But Wodehouse is such a brilliant writer.
His sentence structures are incredible, and the way he just piles one narrative after another - really he must be the original figure for the screw-ball comedy.
Christopher Buckley once said,"It is impossible to be unhappy while reading the adventures of Jeeves and Wooster. And I've tried." Not to diminish Jeeves in any way, I say that it is impossible to be unhappy while reading the trials of Lord Emsworth. This novella was my introduction to the kind, much put upon, and addle-brained pig-lover and it is still one of my favorites. Who would have dreamed that grandson George's bee-bee gun could lead to so much violence!
4.5/5This was my first Wodehouse, and, I have to say, he has a distinct style of writing. It's a breeze to read, but then there also isn't much substance to it. Still, doesn't detract from enjoying it. It's a silly short story about bumbling white English people, and I got a couple chuckles out of it.
Perfect. Like a fun size Twix. Everything is in place for an awesome eating experience it just, sadly, is over too soon. The outbreak of lawlessness is played perfectly and made me laugh (or giggle (in a manly way)) out loud.
Classic Wodehouse.
The Blandings stories entertain me more than the Jeeves stories for the absence of the faultless eponymous deus ex machina who steps in to save his employer from himself at every turn.
Lord Emsworth bares himself to the winds of fate even when Beach is around.
Master of the comic metaphor, the farcical plot, the break-neck pacing, Wodehouse leads us through his wonderfully human universe where nothing really terrible will befall anyone, but where the slightly ghastly afflicts everyone.
A top-class humorist who has influenced just about every comic writer who cares about what he writes.
A joy to read.
Fun characters, engaging plot, nice short read to finish 2016 with. I heard about Wodehouse's hilarious style and all I heard was true. I actually laughed about this story - which I don't do easily. Some jokes and character traits were a bit cliche to me but probably weren't in their time, so 5 ⭐ it is. :-)
Fun characters, engaging plot, nice short read to finish 2016 with. I heard about Wodehouse's hilarious style and all I heard was true. I actually laughed about this story - which I don't do easily. Some jokes and character traits were a bit cliche to me but probably weren't in their time, so 5 ⭐️ it is. :-)
Used to re-read his books all the time.
Turns out a new story wasn't as hard to read.1920-1940 was the time when PGW was at his peak.
Also in the mix is Emsworth's grandson George, the irresponsible owner of the airgun which starts off the crime wave at Blandings.What follows is a serenely predictable plot wherein young hearts are broken and mended, meddling aunts are foiled, nefarious plans of foisting efficient secretaries on reluctant employers are countered and the trouser seats of a certain unpleasant person are repeatedly shot at by mysterious assailant(s).
In Wodehouse, the story is always secondary to the telling of it.
The comedy short story is a strange beast, and-just like the escape of a tamed big cat-it's difficult to guess if it'll disappear without trace, will become part of parochial folklore, or will slink home for supper when the sun sets and it's in need of a jolly good nuzzle.
Crime Wave at Blandings is, without doubt, a nuzzler, and being itself a rewrite of an earlier Wodehouse story, has been published in magazines and books, materialised on film and on TV, and now published in the Penguin Modern Classics collection.
Immensely easy to read, provocative of all that is sacred, and evoking immeasurable bouts of laughter, this is a story that can't be recommended highly enough.
Only a short story, but I loved it. Very funny storyline and endearing and loveable characters, just like the Jeeves & Wooster stories, which are the only other Wodehouse books I've read. Love it. I need more Wodehouse in my life.The story unfolds at Blandings castle, where Wodehouse has set many a scene featuring the bumbling Lord Emsworth. There has been a wave of crime at the castle, starting with the keen shot of one Lord's grandson, George. The story unfolds into a very amusing tale which had me laughing out loud in a way only Wodehouse can.
One funny story! I sincerely laughed and giggled. Wodehouse is lighthearted, very witty and it is understandable and obvious that he was inspiration to writers such as Pratchett or Adams. I would definitely like to read some more.
The most hilarious story I've ever read!! And it got funnier every time I re-read it!
It's been a long time since a book made me laugh this hard.
Brilliantly funny!
O meu primeiro contacto com o P. G. Wodehouse. Cheguei tarde, mas cheguei a tempo e deixou-me com vontade de conhecer mais.
The funniest short story ever written!
The best short story ever written by PGW.
