https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69086.The_Clown_of_God
“The Clown of God” is a truly touching story that children will love for many years.Tomie dePaola has done an excellent job at both illustrating and writing this book about the true meaning of spreading happiness.
Tomie dePaola’s illustrations are much more beautiful than in his “Strega Nona” series, especially as he draws the characters’ expressions in a realistic way and the characters are drawn in a more fluid manner as the characters appearances are so smooth.Parents should know that the ending of this book is a bit sad as it deals with the death of a person.
is my daughters favorite Christmas movie so I was really excited to read this book and discover that it's the children's version of the French legend told by Anatole France.
In The Clown of God an aging juggler thinks he has nothing left to offer God. The admiring crowds and delighted audiences have been replaced with homelessness and hunger.
Although this was a story told and retold by storytellers of the Middle Ages, it's as relevant and alive today as it ever was.Tomie dePaola has meticulously researched and recreated this poignant tale of giving -- whatever we have to give being what God values most -- and miracles.
It's one of those books for the child in all of us.
Giovanni is a young boy with a penchant for juggling.
But, years pass and times get tough, and soon he is not so steady with juggling and audiences are not so kind.
Reduced to beggar status, Giovanni enters a church one night--only to be awoken by glorious singing.
It is the celebration of the birth of the Christ child!
But the statue of the Christ child looks so sad, so serious.
Giovanni would do anything to make the child happy.
And, in that selfless act, Giovanni rediscovers his life's purpose for one last glorious moment.
This children's book is poignant, solemn and inspiring. The beautiful, colourful pages will captivate your focus and imagination. The writing is minimal and easy to understand. The religious reference does not detract from the story or theme. The story is profound and may require light discussion after a reading. Such conversation can bring added insight into the theme of a life calling, craft and what it means to give a gift of yourself. This book is very much an example of such a gift.A good choice for children under 10 and adult's who enjoy children's books.
I have long loved a movie I saw on TV many years ago - The Juggler of Notre Dame.
It's not often a story can stay with you like that, for more than 30 years.
To discover that this tale is actually an old one, and then to further find the story told in a children's book by Tomie dePaola is priceless.No matter what the telling, the story is one of heartbreak.
This book tells the tale well, with the art and words combining to not make this story a thing of tragedy so much as a thing of holiness and hope.
Cannot read aloud to kids without ugly crying.
Certainly worth the price and O keeps requesting to read it.
We have not delved into God and religion at all with her so her interest is either enjoyment of the story or she is trying to process the story's meaning.
It is not unusual for her to request a book over and over until she understands a certain aspect of it...
For those not interested in the religious side of it, it is possible to adjust the wording slightly to maintain an interesting story without the references to "God".
I loved this book when i was younger and reading it again as an adult i still do.
He accumulates a rainbow colored set of juggling balls with one gold one.
He goes to the church at christmas and does a juggling act for Jesus because he has noting else given him.
When he gets to the golden ball that represents the sun in the heavens he realizes what this means and dies.
This is a sweet story about Loving God. I would recommend this book for children 2-4th grade.
This is the only book I've had the time to read this month! And it took me five minutes to read as I sat in the library!Anyway. There is a beautiful color palate used in the illustrations, very in keeping with my idea of the time-period it takes place, with a mixture of messier/moodier water colors blended into the pages. The writing is simple and the repetition in the prose helps propel the story. The protagonist goes from young to old very quickly but such is life.
Ellie read to us. Jacob loves this book. It reminds me of the story in the bible where a women puts in 2 coins and Jesus says she has given more than all the rest. The disciples question him saying that others have put in way more than this women. Jesus answered saying she has given everything she has to God...krb 7/18/16Read for Christmas..krb 12/14/16
Tomie dePaola is my favorite children's book author and artist, and Clown of God is one of his most amazing achievements. The author has several books with religious themes without being religion books. The story is heartwarming, and yet still brings me to tears all these years later, after so many reads.
Love this book! Dr. Brad Wilcox read me this book and made the most profound Spiritual connection. We need to listen to the Spirit to know which "balls" to juggle and which ones we can drop. He really does smile when we are juggling, because that means we are learning.
First of all the story is told in such easy words that it isn't hard to follow nor hard to grasp even if it is a bit educational.
For those who do like the latter there are included even more facts at the bottom of the page, which don't truly interrupt the story.
The second thing that truly did catch my eye was the illustrations.
All in all it was a gorgeously illustrated book that brought the reader into the natural world of the bears.
I would truly recommend this book for young readers who are interested in bears or those who are trying to teach others about bears.
This is an old story retold by the author. A young orphan boy learns how to juggle, and using his skill he entertains people, thereby finding shelter and food for himself. He becomes a famous self-supported juggler until his old age. When he fumbles in his performance the people don't care about him anymore and he is again poor and alone. When he seeks shelter in a monastery something miraculous happens. Wonderful illustrations.
The story of a clown named Giovanni. A once prominent juggler and entertainer that used to bring great joy to the people in town. He performed for great people. But a day came when people no longer had interest in him, and soon he was of no value. He finds himself seeing the need to bring a gift to the Christ Child. He juggles for him and gives all he can. And then he falls to the ground, dead.
Summary: A clown who travels the world grows old and finds joy.Why I Read This: I had read half of this with a toddler once, but she got distracted and started crawling on me even as she recited the lines about the golden ball. So, I never finished. Now I've finally finished!Review: I really love this book. I really love that I made it to the end. The ending just made me smile.
One of my favorite stories by dePaola, and one I never tire of reading. It touched me deeply as a child, and I still enjoy it to this day. The ending, in particular, is so amazing that it never leaves you.
I have read many books by this children's author and illustrator. This is a beautiful rendering of an old folk tale. I have a grandson who is a serious juggler, and the story is touching, especially at Christmas. I would like to buy it for my Christmas book collection.
Beautiful story from my childhood. Always a marvellous read with kids!
A really well-told folk tale, with dePaola's beautiful illustrations accompanying it. A neat story about how even giving of your talents - just trying to make someone happy - can be a valuable gift.
A wonderful retelling of a legend that has made our family happy for 40 years now! It might make you cry, but it is a definite inspirer.
Wonderful presentation of this familiar tale!
uma história infantil triste mas bonita 😊
I read The Clown of God this afternoon, and tonight I'm still crying tears of mixed joy and sorrow.
This book is fun to read and story was very interesting. The moral of the story is really good and the Pictures were amazing!
The orphan Giovanni achieves great heights of fame through a juggling act that culminates in a rainbow of colored balls, with a golden ball representing "the sun in the heavens." At the height of his fame, some monks tell him his juggling "sings of the glory of God," to which he laughingly retorts, "I only juggle to make people laugh and applaud." As the years pass, Giovanni's popularity wanes until he is forced to stop juggling and beg for food.
(However, presumably this is the title of the folk tale, so it's not something I necessarily would expect the author to change.)One of my favorite aspects of this book is that the way it follows the main character's life almost directly parallels the way the plot rises and falls, so this would be an excellent book with which to introduce the concepts of plot; much like a plot progresses from a problem or conflict to rising action to the climax to the falling action to the denouement, this book follows the clown's life from the introduction to his juggling skill, to his rising fame (traveling with a theatrical troupe), to his climax of glory (performing for dukes and princes), to his falling fame (becoming homeless/a beggar) to the denouement of his final performance, for a statue of Jesus, and his death.
Tomie dePaola's version of this classic tale differs substantially from the one written by Barbara Cooney.
One big change, among many, is that the action is all set in Italy, whereas Barbara Cooney's story (and virtually all others, if my understanding is correct) takes place in France.
As time inevitably catches up to him, Giovanni's marvelous skills of physical wizardry begin to fade like the luster of a beautiful flower, until the large crowds that had eagerly flocked to see his performances gradually disperse, and one day he bungles even the fantastic seven-ball finale that had been his renown when he was at his peak.
I know I read this book as a child.
I remember liking it.
But know as an adult, who understands what it means to give and receive laughter, the story was far more moving.
Laughter is good medicine.
Even the Bible says that.
I can just imagine this old man standing in the soft candlelight of the church all alone and thinking "Children should smile.
I'm going to make that child smile".
And in a place that had probably seen nothing but stoic precessions for a hundred, he put on clown makeup, juggled his best, and made the Son of God smile.
Tomie dePaola does a wonderful job writing and illustrating, The Clown of God. Little Giovanni was poor and had no home, but was talented in one area; he could juggle.
As a child, Giovanni's juggling amazed many and he would travel around showing off his talents while his face was painted like a clown.
When he became older many towns people did not find his juggling as amusing as they did when he was young, so he returned to living in poverty.
Tomie dePaola sometimes uses words that may be a little harder for a young reader to sound out by themselves.
