https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/938212.The_Dog_of_the_South
I loved its honesty, its anti-climactic ending.Ray Midge is a self-depreciating Arkansas redneck on a quest to get back his stolen Gran Torino and his cheating wife.
Guess it makes sense that Ray’s wife left him, explains why Ray never cast blame her way - personally I'd peg him a keeper:)  “Then I saw the answer.
I was amazed but I couldn’t really hold it against her.”  Meanderings: Convinced losing that car hurt Ray more than losing his wife, bit of an eureka moment for me.
Looking back I can barely remember his name but that Mustang?
A test of patience? A proof of silliness? Pick your favorite.  MISLEADING TITLE Certainly after that I read the excellent novel True Grit (See my review about that book HERE) I decided that I wanted to read more books by Charles Portis.I even do some research about their books and while I found that all of them have an interesting premise, I had to choose one of them, and so, my pick was this one.Well, first of all, the title The Dog of the South is very misleading if not a bad choice of title,
Certainly after that I read the excellent novel True Grit (See my review about that book HERE) I decided that I wanted to read more books by Charles Portis.I even do some research about their books and while I found that all of them have an interesting premise, I had to choose one of them, and so, my pick was this one.Well, first of all, the title The Dog of the South is very misleading if not a bad choice of title, just like in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire (The Goblet of Fire?
The Dog of the South is the exact kind of humor I like.
Dupree steals Midge’s car and credit card and takes off with Norma through Texas and Mexico—eventually arriving in British Honduras.
They make for a strange pairing.The novel is told from the idiosyncratic perspective of Midge who spends much of the novel taking in the strange world he lives in.
But his isn’t the reactive humor of, say, Bob Newhart who deadpans his exasperation at the inscrutable and intractable world in which he lives; no, Midge takes everything in stride—each and every peculiarity and catastrophe.
Now, he's headed off to find them, packing a .38 Colt Cobra, AND his wife's pain medication.Norma never went anywhere without her lower-back medicine, and yet she had forgotten it this time, such was her haste in dusting out of town, away from my weekly embraces.
I pretty much love EVERYTHING about Ray, though I would have to insist on at least "bi-weekly" embraces.
For a man whose wife claims just wants to stay in the house all the time, Ray manages to have quite a big adventure, and I'm awfully glad I was along for the ride.
The Dog of the South: You Can't Always Get What You WantJack became solemn and he began to pose rhetorical questions, 'What is everybody looking for?' he said.
Jack said no, that many people were looking for those things, but that everybody was looking for a good job of work to do.
Roy Blount Jr., a great humorist in his own right, and editor of Roy Blount's Book of Southern Humor wrote The Dog of the South is the one book everyone should read before they die.Well, I've done what Blount recommended.
Ray is married to Norma, the ex-wife of former friend Guy Dupree.
I'm white and I don't dance but that doesn't mean I have all the answers.” ― Charles Portis, The Dog of the SouthCharles Portis isn't God. But I believe he can do no wrong and can walk on water when I read his books.
I open the world-weary pages of a Portis novel and suddenly I am taken-up in a vision that contains the body and the blood of all that is great with American Fiction.
Great book.
There is so much more to Charles Portis than just one amazing book.
I really enjoyed True Grit and had high hopes for this book about a road trip through places that I personally took road trips through back in my misspent youth.
The title and the books cover suggest, and on some covers state outright, that the story is about a road trip through Mexico in a retired school bus named "The Dog of the South".
The truth is that, although said school bus does make an appearance but it is broken down when we encounter it and it never gets repaired.
Charles Portis does deserve come credit.
Bottom line: I had high hopes for this book but in the end was very disappointed.
The Arkansas Traveller reimagined as a cosmic fool. One of the most underrated American novels, but that's those New York Smarties for you. This will put Shakespeare in the sh*thouse.
Ray Midge embarks on a road trip to recover his car and his wife, meeting along the way a wacky assortment of characters who appear to have escaped from a Coen Brothers movie. As with any Portis novel, the real treat is the humorous dialogue, both internal and external, while the plot is largely ancillary. This 1979 book marked Portis' return to publishing novels after an 11 year hiatus following his indelible True Grit.
In the process, he meets a slew of colourful characters who, each in their own way, are striving to cut out a piece of world for themselves as well, and his perspective gradually shifts as being outside his initial comfort zone loses its’ sting and he allows himself to be invaded by the commonality he shares with Dr. Symes, a junkie ex-doctor, and Webster, a young boy who works as a go-fer in the hotel where Ray is staying.The story is told in a charming kind of rigid stubbornness, and Ray never loses an occasion to point out how people make a mockery of him.
It's hard to quote good examples of the type of comedy Portis uses since it's so understated and subtle, but the cumulative effect on those who can visualize just how ridiculous these scenes would be in real life is tremendous; by the end of the book I was practically laughing out loud each time Midge couldn't catch a break.I would compare its sense of humor somewhat to A Confederacy of Dunces, but with a little less slapstick and with a little more outright cruelty than is shown to the invincibly obese New Orleaner.
Thanks again to my thoughtful friend Jeff who sent me this book because he knew I enjoyed Portis’ True Grit.
Or, more often, that they had it and lost it, or had it stolen from them but are close to getting it back.”With the exception of the children, everyone in this book is very strange, including the narrator, and both the first person narration and the dialogue among all the characters is very funny stuff.
The density of bizarre situations and the dryness of the humor in the telling of them by narrator Ray served to cause a bit of numbness after a while and I felt I might have appreciated the quirkiness more as a condiment than a main dish.
Deadpan comic picaresque that seems to take from Cervantes, Twain, Jane Bowles and Beckett in equal measures and foreshadows Joy Williams and Sam Lipsyte. The bizarre dialogue and characters seem to overrun the plot, the comedy turns ominous at certain points, and nothing ends in any predictable way. This is a rare novel without a bad sentence. (Good thing since it takes Portis about ten years to write a novel.)
However, (it seems to me) the difference is that Portis really likes his characters, he’s like a watchful father who wants to see his children do well, whereas McCarthy, great writer though he unquestionably is, can be a bit like the God of the Old Testament when it comes to his literary offspring; you know - vengeance, punishment, destruction.I laughed out loud (unusual for me) so many times as I lay in bed reading this book.
Ray, a bit goofy by his own observation, is on something of a heroic quest to right a wrong - well, rather a lot of wrongs, perpetrated against him by the unconscionable, yet pretty hapless, Guy Dupree.
I failed to spot the word “hilarious” (Baltimore Sun) on the back cover – a word reviewers seem to think is synonymous with “humourless” – and therefore bought a book that I might have avoided had my eyesight been better.Trying to analyze why The Dog of the South is wildly unfunny is not so easy.
The book appears to be picaresque, with an anti-hero, a large cast of odd characters, a road trip from Little Rock to Belize, and a huge number of curious incidents, accidents, and encounters.
Since the humour is largely in the form of crosstalk, this is a big disadvantage.
Humour retains its mystery...
When young slacker and military history aficionado Ray Midge has his wife and Ford Torino stolen by his best friend, he heads south of the border determined, whatever the cost, to get that car back.The Dog of the South is a near masterpiece of the redneck quest novel written by a top practitioner of the genre.
As much as any other cast of characters in literature, Ray Midge and his acquaintances are likely to shake whatever confidence you place in the reliable, blandly-secure, blandly-sane life of our modern workaday world.
Do you revel in self-loathing and megalomania?
Do you take pride in your unassailable morals and ethics, despite ample, mounting evidence of corrupt motives and murky intentions?You too can be the hero of one of the greatest road-trip novels in American literature!Charles Portis is a treasure.
True Grit is the fantastic Portis book everyone already knows.
The Dog of the South is the fantastic Portis book that propels everyone (maybe not everyone, just anyone who is worth talking to) lucky enough to read it to want to devour every other book Charles Portis has ever written.
Ray seems more annoyed by the loss of his Torino than anything else — Norma's infidelity, the mounting bills, the fact that he had provided the bail money to secure Dupree's release.An awkward, half-baked chain of events govern the action of the story.
He is the lone and unabashed disciple of a self-help guru named John Dix and presses Dix's book on Ray. The fact that Symes' mother does not answer any of his letters leads the reader to believe she might have some sanity in her.
Mrs. Symes, or Meemaw as she is called, subjects him to a spirited round of inquisition as well as some background on Doc's misspent life.
I was excited to read other Portis books after absolutely loving True Grit – it had a great plot, a great narrator, explored history, brought in religion and philosophies with life: I feel like there is NONE of that in Dog of the South.
Even my biggest disappointments (American Pastoral?) I feel like I can at least understand why some people hold the work in high esteem, for reasons I just don’t agree with; but I can’t even understand ANY REASONS why someone would rate this 5 stars.
We learn at the beginning that his wife Norma has run off with her ex-husband Guy Dupree with Raymond's Gran Torino and American Express Card.
Raymond tracks their progress south by looking to see where they used the Amex card.Eventually, the chase ends up in British Honduras (now known as Belize), where Dupree's father owns some property.
Midge eventually finds Dupree, who runs off again, but without Norma; and he finds Norma in the local hospital, where she went for dehydration and an appendectomy.Although there are some dogs in the story, I think The Dog of the South is Midge himself, who is surprisingly loyal to a wife who runs out on him.
unreal. such economical command of language. so sharp and wise and hilarious. some of the best 9 word sentences ever committed to paper. Beginning is just an absolute trip - kind of gets lost in the jungles for a bit but ends about as strong and heartwarming as you could imagine. "What's wrong with me Norma?" "You just want to stay in the house all the time." I'm sorry but really just some of the most stunning and inspiring fiction I've tapped in to in years - will be thinking about life in clipped observational sentences for months to come.
‘True Grit,’ 1968; ‘The Dog of the South,’ 1979.
I think Charles Portis doesn’t like being famous.And maybe he also feared getting out from under the weight of the astounding accomplishment of ‘True Grit.’ As it is, he can’t quite drop one of Mattie Ross’s singular mannerisms, the exclamatory sentence.
‘What a sweet job!’ ‘What a statement!’ ‘What a story!’The writing teachers who tell their students to avoid the exclamation point should be forced to read ‘True Grit.’ It works!
The lore of an unusual corner of America spreading out from Arkansas into the neighboring states.Portis ties these elements up in shaggy-dog narratives that are a treat to read, even if it is a shtick.
Narrator Ray Midge is a bumbling, frustrating loser (unaccomplished, undegreed, cuckolded, and abandoned at 26) who proves entirely unable to determine what will and will not be of interest to the reader, so there are some frustrations in reading this chronological but shapeless and undifferentiated narrative.
If you can accept the unnecessary incidents and the unsatisfying lack of connections in the plot as further elaboration of Ray's character, it reads well, but I understand reviewers here who are put off by the novel's disunity.
When it's funny, it is as funny as any novel I have ever read.
It's kind of like this:I'll be sitting down at a conference table for 30 people but it will be just me and my client hanging on to the end of the mammoth meeting alter and he wants to tell me about his plans for his pool."Brian, I want a pool.
Not just any kind of pool but a swimming pool that..."and then I'll notice this gray lint at the corner of his mouth as he's talking to me.
And if he'll put his mouth on something that has a gray hair, possibly pubic, or even just dirty old lint, where pray tell would he put his hands?
I didn't know what to expect from Portis, knowing only two things about him before I started The Dog of the South: 1) He wrote the book that became True Grit, which I must admit I've never seen because I hate John Wayne, knowing only his ridiculously jingoistic war movies.
2) An avid reader friend of mine, the same one who gave me this book, begins frothing at the mouth at the very mention of Portis, proclaiming his genius in much the same fashion that The Dog of the South's Dr. Reo Symes canonizes the fictional J.S. Dix, an enigmatic writer of advice manuals for salesmen.
This is a really fun, well written picaresque in the spirit of Huckleberry Finn, the story of a young man on a quest from Arkansas to Belize, tracking his wife who R-U-N-N-O-F-T-ed with his car and her lover. One may recall the wonderful voice of Mattie Ross in Portis's True Grit; Ray Midge is the same sort of wonderful.
A comedy act by this unusual dude. This would definitely bore some readers but it was crazy and funny enough to keep me reading. Recommendation from Tina.
I think I saw where some people were speculating over just who the "dog of the south" was in this story.
Most seem to think it's the story's narrator, Ray Midge, a 26 year old military history nerd, who has yet to get any traction in life, and who has just lost his wife, Norma, to her first husband, Guy Dupree.
That said, there's an episodic looseness here that left me thinking "Writer's Block." "Dog of the South" was written 11 years after "True Grit." These are not chiseled sentences in memorable paragraphs, but a grab bag of WTF zigs and zags in a nearly meaningless plot.
For the most part, we get along great, but when we do argue, it's along the lines of, "A crappy book like THE GREAT GATSBY has no business sitting alongside my BETSY-TACY collection" or "If I find you sneaking AT SWIM TWO BIRDS under my pillow one more time, it's going straight in the trash." One of the rare authors Jeff and I both adore is Charles Portis.
I would have gone to monkey island, and paid a lot more for admission than I did for this book.
Celebrate the fact that Charles Portis’ novels are no longer out of print and hidden in used book stores.
The Dog of the South defines the identity of my generation’s time, the way Wallace Stegner did for my father’s.
This novel abides by the rules of popular fiction, but also captures the breadth, majesty and complexity of our people.
The great American novel is supposed to have the ability to define our society and culture through high art.
The Dog of the South is that novel, masquerading as popular fiction.
Time alone will bring this opinion into our national consciousness.
