https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/633110.Utah_Blaine
It concerns the titular Utah Blaine and his involvement in a complicated range war in Arizona.
Utah is the quintessential stoic Western tough guy, a former colonel and this type of guy is always fun and some would probably argue also a necessary part of westerns.
The way L'Amour got the plot rolling was hilariously contrived but I didn't really care.Is there even a point to reviewing these individually?
I don't think so--one needs these authors too; the reliable ones, the ones you're comfortable with.
I find L'Amour comfortably reliable indeed so far, but I wouldn't want to binge on his books.
I've read most of his books and they are VERY light reading.
(I can blitz through a L'Amour novel in about 1 1/2 hours and I'm not a fast reader.) I'll just say that all his books have a distinct charm about them, in large part because of his respect for nature ("you have to live with the desert, not against it"), old-fashioned sense of manliness and justice, and belief in the power of the individual to both be good and effect good.
His characters are always paragons of self-education, self-discipline, and self-sacrifice and as such I always find them refreshing and inspiring.
Formulaic and predictable. But I still enjoyed the $#@! out of it, as I always do, with L'amour's stuff.
Louis L'amour is like comfort food in a book for me. I grew up reading his books and they are predictable--the good guy always wins, but not till he's been shot and gotten the girl. I love them though I tend to skip over the fist fight scenes. You can be assured that someone in his books will always be riding a zebra dun or a line backed dun and you always want to be "one to ride the river with"
This is one of those books you need a program to keep up with everyone, their motives, as well as who they're for and against. Sheesh! I like Blaine. He has a strong sense of honor and justice. Even after (view spoiler)[Neal is killed (hide spoiler)], he stays true to his word where someone else might up and leave. A good and fast read, but I can't give it a full five stars for the kind of open-ended ending.Coyer: Read a book that contains all the letters in the word BLUE ~ Utah Blaine (4 points)
L'Amour's books are what you might call formulaic; but he's an expert at the formula! With Utah, he adds unique twists and character personalities that are super fun to follow.Interesting fact I never realized about L'Amour: so many of his books have at least one strong female character in a central role. Utah Blaine is especially good in this regard. I'd read this one again, very enjoyable!
I found this book in a dusty box in my parent's basement and started reading it only because I had nothing else. I decided that I'd read it since I was moving to Utah and that was in the title. In the end, I entirely enjoyed the book. I've read a few Louis L'amour but it's been a while. Utah Blaine is an action packed western about range wars and love. All these years and I didn't realize my dad was reading romances.
This was my very first peek into this well beloved world of Louis L'Amour, and I was pleasantly surprised. While it was exactly what I anticipated...a very tough cowboy, alluring to the females, overcoming all sorts of obstacles, etc etc...the story and the action kept me reading and involved more than I'd thought I'd be. OK, I read it in one day. But it was a short one. Looks like I'll be back for more.
One of my new favorite L'Amour books, "Utah Blaine" captures the reader's attention in the very first chapter. I listened to the book on cd, and the reader did an excellent job of reading this exciting western tale. If you enjoy a good western story like the ones heard around a campfire about good guys vs. bad guys with a heroic woman in the mix, this is a great choice! Utah Blaine, the main character, beats a comic strip super hero for me any day!
I liked it quite a bit. It took me a while to read because I could only read a couple minutes at a time waiting for my daughter to get off school. It follows the "legendary Utah Blaine" in ihs fight against a town full of killers who are after a large ranch property. At fisrt it seemed odd, the idea of a rancher almost handing over his ranch to a complete stranger. But as absurd as it sounds it paved the for a good book.
Loved this western. The ending was a little bit hard to buy into. One man is shot eleven times and recovers. The hero takes three shots in the book from a professional gunslinger and recovers. But it was still a great western. One of L'Amour's better ones.
As always a good western can be found by reading Louis L'Amour. He writes in a way that makes you a part of the old frontier and appreciate the old ways. It isn't a hard read, but it sure makes me want to read more of his books.
Really enjoyed this book. When I had read it I had just finished some heavy reading, so this was a fun and very light pallet cleanser indefinitely. Predictable? Of course. Worth reading? Every minute of the book.
“Utah Blaine” by Louis L’Amour is once again, another spectacular book by the great Louis L’Amour.
It begins with colonel Utah Blaine breaking out of a mexican prison where he is being held captive during the revolution.
He stumbles upon a hanging taking place in the desert.
He saves the man being hung and gets tied up in a full on range war.
This is an exciting story of shootouts, hard rides, and hand to hand combat.
This book is a great story and also a relatively fast read.
Louis L’Amour has once again impressed me with another awesome book telling of the old west
Another good Louis L'Amour story, but this one seemed to have too many bad guys running around. It was hard to keep them all straight, and while I understand that L'Amour heroes are pretty much too good to be true, it is hard to believe that one man can single-handedly eliminate all the opposition.
DON'T UNDERESTIMATE UTAH BLAINEWhat can't be said about Louis L'Amour that hasn't been said or printed. His writings answers any questions you wanted to know about the west. From the mighty Pacific to the Atlantic Oceans everyone is familiar with this author. I will say include Louis L'Amour in quest regarding how the west was settled...
Confession time: This is my first ever Louis L'Amour book I have read. I loved it. L'Amour has such a way with words that I felt like I was right there with the characters. This book has strong, lovable characters, a fun plot, action, pretty much everything needed for a great novel. It is a little predictable, but that did not bother me.
An early 'LL novel about a Gun fighter who returns from a war in Mexico and as he arrived he is immediately thrown into a valley range war. The other ranchers want the land he received from his partner. This is an excellent read for the genre and was made into a Grade B western with Rory Calhoun.....DEHS
Good story about range wars of the West. Only part I didn't like was it seemed like Angie and Utah had just met then they were in love. Not a lot of development there, but it is more of a story of range wars instead of romance. Another good L'Amour novel.
Exciting action four way battle near the end. Good description of land; and believable dialog. This book will keep you awake from start to finish.This book is a must for those who like believable stories. The geography is correct as well as names of places.
I read this in one day..while on airplanes between Pittsburgh and Chicago, than Chicago and Memphis.Typical action packed L'Amour western, pretty good but not as suspenseful as some others. Mostly predictable and most of the characters met a violent ending.
Wonderful!Louis L'Amour never writes a bad novel. I've read them all multiple times, and still enjoy them. This is a well-written story with great characters and a solid plot. You can't go wrong reading this fine author's work.
Roger, Village patron, June 2018, 4 stars:Colonel Utah Blaine rescues a rancher from hanging from vigilantes. The rancher hires him to help save his ranch and the entire valley.
Excellent WesternWell written western. L'Amour has a formula and he sticks to it, but it is still a fun read. Enjoy
A classic L'Amour novel - tall stranger, danger, damsels, and intrigue. The formula always works! A great dessert read.
I love Louis L'Amour gunfighter gone good stories and this one does not disappoint.
Utah Blaine steps in just in time to save a Texas rancher from being hung by his own men. Author Louis L'Amour is amazing at writing stories of the old west.
I'm slightly biased in favour of these books because I grew up reading Louis L'Amour. That said, if you've never read him before this would be an easy enough starter book.
Unless the sense is that L'Amour had a book to get out and he decided to get lazy and prolong the story to make a word count.Worse, because of many missed opportunities other actions follow that make the bad guy's motivations make less sense and question the reader why this story is happening at all.
To me it all seems a plot device that just doesn't work.There is also an overlapping of events that is very poorly handled.
In this case there are so many poorly handled parts of this book, that I felt I need to point out a few.Bottom line: I don't recommend this book.
Utah Blaine is another entertaining book by the bestselling western writer of all time, Louis L'Amour.
Sure, there are subtle differences in all of his stories, but the formula is pretty much the same: a tough guy with a good heart rides into to town to save the oppressed.
I always enjoy his stories, and I enjoyed this one.Like a lot of other western fans, Louis L'Amour is my favorite writer of this genre.
I liked it a lot, but I wanted to love it.Overall, Utah Blaine is a good western tale in a formula that Louis L'Amour used for a lot of his tales.
