https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99746.An_Island_to_Oneself
You don't have to be a sailor to love this book because it isn't really about sailing.
I desperately wanted to stop at his island (Suvorov) on our way from Bora Bora to American Samoa, but unfortunately there was a dengue fever outbreak amongst the crews of the sailboats already there so we had to pass it by.
So Suvorov will have to exist only in my mind as described by Tom Neale.UPDATE: An opportunity presented itself to perhaps have another go at Suvorov (or Suwarrow as the Cook Islander now call it).
A friend wanted me to help him sail his boat to Samoa from Tahiti.
To me this was a life changing book.
It is told in first person format about how Tom Neale went to live on an uninhabited island in the Suvorov Atoll.
The book talks about the preparation, the experiences on the island and all the trials and successes that went along with it.
The book made me wish I could have met the man who had such perfect insight into what he should do with his life.
He knew how to do just about everything and was able to apply that to island living.
Neale spent years in the South Pacific dreaming of finding a deserted island before he finally took the plunge, so he had plenty of time to prepare.
Still, there were all manner of unexpected setbacks and challenges to face, including a severe bout with fever and an epic storm.
One thing I particularly liked about Neale was how doggedly he clung to his dream.
If you've ever casually wondered how YOU would fare on a desert island, then this book might give you something concrete to think about.
Really compelling story of Tom Neale, who marooned himself on a desert island in the South Pacific and made it his home for more than six years. The book covers Neale's first two stays on the island as he battled the jungle, established a garden, a fowl run and tried to put aside the need for companionship and living by the clock. His story is warm and engrossing, making this quick read a book to remember.
(It was with some degree of amusement that I noted that Neale named the boat he repaired the Ruptured Duckling; Callahan named his dinghy Rubber Ducky III.) He comes prepared to grow a garden, for example, but when he realises that there aren't enough bees to pollinate his plants, he doesn't give up...he uses The Origin of Species to teach himself to hand-pollinate.In Castaway, Irvine describes a number of bureaucratic hoops in the way of spending a year on an island.
Written by New Zealander Tom Neale, this book was about Neale's time spent on a desert island for about 17 years.
His years on the island were interrupted by a few trips back to the mainland mostly for health reasons, but Neale always returned to what I suspect felt more like home to him than the mainland.
One trip back to civilization though, was not so much for health reasons as it was his advancing age and his desire to not face one thing alone -- death.
Bitten by the bug of living alone, Neale actually did return to the island one last time.
Life is stranger than fiction.
Neale is from New Zealand but travelled the islands of the pacific for many years.This is a great adventure book.
It's stranger than fiction.
The Tom Hanks movie "Cast Away" has nothing on the drama Neale faces on this island.
There's really never a dull moment.I wonder if anyone owns the movie rights to this story.
It would make a great movie.
Maybe it's too soon since "Cast Away" but Tom Neale really gives Tom Hanks a run for his money.Neale was on the island during two different stays, from 1952-1956 and 1960-1964.
I love this book.
Tom Neale's decision to live for years on deserted island by himself is one of the boldest, weirdest feats I've ever heard of.
Going Robinson Crusoe on purpose seems to me even more audacious than the acts of bravery I usually read about -- climbing Everest, sailing solo around the world, surviving shipwrecks, etc.
At least on the pages of this book.
When I stopped to think about how Neale had parents and (a quick search reveals) a wife and kids, it almost broke his charming spell.
I still love his idea of having an island to oneself, even if I want it only for a week.
I'm on a desert-island-book kick at the moment, so when I saw this was available for free, I grabbed it.I really liked this.
It's not an overly long book, but it's well written and in a way a complete opposite to the last book I read of this type, Castaway.
There's no real hardships apart from a couple of bouts of fever and a rather poor diet, and even after 14 months alone he's still happy and content, but that adds to the atmosphere, and when he has to leave you can truly sympathise with him.This is one of those books that's really worth reading
Just brilliant! I thoroughly enjoyed this book; every page I turned made me stop and think, could John & I do something like that? This guy did it-and did it alone! Pure solitude, and self suffiency-the truly simple life...well besides the hard work that comes with self suffiency! And great insight; even though he was very much happy as a loner, even he occasionally would long for some companionship...but only for brief moments..other than that-he was very happy and content for those years that he CHOSE to live on an island all by himself. Loved it!
What a great book. My cousin recommended it and I have to say I really did enjoy this book. Amazing reading about surviving on an island for years by oneself with very little. He did have a head start in that some things were already on the island, but still very amazing. Even not being sure about some of the things he talked about as he is/was from New Zealand the story was still great and very interesting. Thanks for the recommendation cousin Karen. :-)
Going in I knew I was going to rate this book 5 stars. This is my kind of story. Someone who knows what needs to be done and goes out and figures out a way to do it on their own. There's not much excitement. Just a simple book explaining how to live life on your own. I really want my deserted island now.
Tom Neale decided to live on an island by himself in the South Pacific. He managed to do so for about 20 years. This book was written after the first 10 years. It is interesting to read about how he did it. Plus who doesn't love beautiful islands? It is definitely a fun read.
Couldn't find this one anywhere so I ordered it from Amazon. If you've ever wished you could retreat from your hectic lifestyle and find a calmer existance this is the book to read. What an adventure! Wonderful!
Ever wanted to move to a deserted island alone? This guy did, and makes a pretty convincing argument for it. Very good, but there was not enough "action" to make it great.
Tom Neale's classic story of the 6 years he spent in the 50s and 60s living alone on Anchorage Island at Suvarov atoll in the South Pacific. I loved this - a really amazing story.
It's a very charming book which tells about a man who had a dream for a long time and who went for it.
This book is a lot about solitude even though writing style is such that it doesn't reveal much at all about author's inner thoughts and feelings.
Those he kept for himself but even the practical preparations and daily life of his on the island was enough for me to enjoy this book tremendously and keep reading it again and again every now and then.
The story is the one so many of us can only dream of.
Tom Neale lived the life that I have been dreaming of: purposefully lived alone on an uninhibited island. The fact that he did it after slaving away for fifty years in civilized society is nothing short of remarkable. Filled with valuable insights and humor, Neale provides an inspirational account of his six years of nearly uninterrupted solitude. A weaker storyteller would stretch out the last ten pages to encompass a third of the book, but Neale crafts it as a fitting epilogue to his time on Suvarov and a valuable prologue for the twilight of his remaining existence.
I can not overstate how much I loved this book. It's one that when you finish it you are unable to read anything else for a stretch afterwords. Neale's story was so fantastic and amazing, not to mention the writing was strong and carried the book. A must read for any south Pacific, adventure, wild forager, farmer, and lover of travel.
Engaging story about a man who longed to leave civilization behind, although he could not explain why, and how he survived (happily!) completely on his own devices. I enjoyed how well he described life on his own, and his inventiveness in replacing the comforts of modern living.
Interesting. Very understated as well - makes me want to go live on an island (as long as it's tropical!)
Reminds me of Kon-Tiki. Old school real life adventures.
I love this book, this island, this cranky old bachelor.
An autobiography from a different time and place with insights on the psychology of isolation and the joys and challenges of living alone in the South Pacific.
Fabulous book, absolutely fascinating.
Wow, what a great book! We loved it - I read it out loud to my husband. Great story and well written.
jkfjakfksjfjsjfojsajfcjskfjuwiodiwuuieduiwyfimxnckdsciidufieuifnsnckjhsdhciscnsdkcahsdchdshckshchschuhuhhchscknsdncdsncnjsnjcnksdvcks
I live close to the Rideau Trail here in Ontario, and when I got laid off from my job, nearly four years ago, I briefly felt the urge to just throw some things in a backpack and start walking.
The sort of man who would set out to live alone on a small island in the South Pacific (although with a lot a preparation) for years would understand that urge.He covers his life before then in light detail, but enough that you could believe his stories.
What a really good book on one mans life journeys and self reliance on living on a secluded island, a great story on survival, hope and determination.
Rounding up from 2.5 starsIn retrospect, I should have realized this book wasn't going to be great.
Running away to an island is not just my dream--it's a common one--so it seems unlikely that a really good book on the subject would remain as obscure as An Island to Oneself.
Neale is an unlikeable narrator, an extremely idiosyncratic, single-minded person who takes pride in odd things.
At the very least he would have been a lot more interesting.This review is an excerpt from a longer review on my blog, Around the World in 2000 Books.
