https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/301965.A_Simple_Story
Agnon indeed seems to bring a simple story, but it was a hell of a struggle to get through.
The curious thing is that this novel has a very 19th century flavour, with a rather cliché romantic focal point, an impossible love, which seems to develop into a naturalistic drama, but in the end just doesn’t.
Agnon here plays a perverse game of reversal, reinforced by a curious mixture of continual moralizing and ironic remarks.
The only charm that this story offered was the rich evocation of life in a Jewish community in Eastern Europe around the turn of the 19th and 20th century.
I think he won the prize in 1966, but this novel was written in 1935.It's set in a Jewish Polish town that's being pulled by different forces: the Kaiser, socialists, Zionists.
All of this happens fairly early in the novel, so you wonder what's going to fill the extra 150 pages.I won't ruin it, but I found it fascinating because the novel meanders here and there among different characters in the town.
On the last page, Agnon promises another book about Getzel, but as far as I can tell, he never wrote one.Here's one wonderful quote: "A greater Father than Hirshl, however, had other ideas.
Persino la storia in sé, il fiorire dell’amore tra Hershl e Blume, bruscamente troncata dai desiderata dei genitori di lui, benché occupi una discreta parte del romanzo, resta come sospesa e vaga.
Soprattutto Blume (ma anche Mine, ossia la donna che diventerà la moglie di Hershl) finisce per diventare un enigma, che non si sa bene come decifrare.
Forse lo stesso autore se ne è reso conto, tant’è che al termine del romanzo dice: È finita la storia di Hershl e Mine, ma le storie di Blume non sono finite.
Eerste in het NLs vertaalde boek van deze Schrijver.
It was the very classic Jewish/jiddish writing style I enjoyed rather than the actual story. It was good to experience Agnon's work.
This novel has so many layers that I would have to read it a few more times to really grasp all that the writer is trying to convey.
Hirshl is a young Jewish man who is in love with his poor cousin.
His parent have other ideas, Hirshl finds himself in an arranged marriage.
It's sad on many marriages were contracted rather than allowed to grow out of mutual love and affection.The novel has many characters, and the author allows you to meet many of them.
It's a fascinating character study and a little more insight into the Jewish community.
Well, I had to read it for an exam I had in Literature..Maybe that was the reason I didn't really like it. Tasks always look plain and boring.I found the story sad, depressing and disappointing.. it just left me with a horrible feeling of emptiness.
Bloeme en Hirsjl worden verliefd op elkaar, maar zijn moeder heeft andere plannen voor haar enige kind.
Maar de onschuldige liefdesblijken die Bloeme en Hirsjl tersluiks uitwisselen, ontsnappen niet aan het waakzame oog van Tsirl, de moeder van Hirsjl.
Berekenend als ze is, wil ze absoluut vermijden dat haar zoon een arm meisje huwt.
Of dat ze elkaar op enig later moment opnieuw zullen ontmoeten.
Maar niets van dat alles bij Agnon, die voor zijn - allesbehalve simpele - 'simpel verhaal' een heel andere variant van de onmogelijke liefde heeft bedacht.
Hershl Hurvitz non ce la fa a mettere insieme gli obblighi familiari e comunitari con la sua attrazione verso la domestica, e soccombe. Questa è la storia un po' deprimente della sua impotenza, e anche quella di uno shtetl ucraino nel primo '900. L'efficace scrittura è caratterizzata da dialoghi battenti, mentre le azioni e le situazioni che raccolgono i personaggi intorno alla tavola o per le strade del villaggio sono descritte con rilassata ironia nel loro svolgimento privo di sussulti.
Читала цю книгу в перекладі російською. Вважаю, що це один із кращих романів Аґнона, який сюжетно відбувається в містечку Бучачі - рідному для автора. Особливий стиль письма Аґнона робить текст цікавим, а сюжет - динамічним. Книга читається легко і в захопленні, що теж є особливістю саме цього роману. Дуже рекомендую!
Life in a shtetl, right before WWI.
"Quando un uomo sente il mondo farsi oscuro intorno a lui, legge un libro e vede un altro mondo." (p. 31)
Some play out like you hope, some others take your life to a place you never knew.In the end I wasn't fully engrossed because I couldn't understand why some characters made the choices they did.
I couldn't grasp the meaning of their decisions, or why they would allow their lives to be so quickly and simply overrun by what they interpreted as the needs of society being greater than their own.
And the author described everything simply, elegantly, artfully.
As much as I didn't understand the characters I was taken in by the characters and movements that resonated within me.
boring.The irony of A Simple Story is what makes it an interesting book.
I have read this book twice, neither time particularly out of my own choice.
The first time, I truly struggled reading this allegedly "simple" story, wondering why I needed to study a book that so clearly was meant to be ironic.
In spite of all this, Agnon's writing is fascinating, making this book nonetheless interesting to read.
It does not, however, make A Simple Story more than a mediocre book, and does not best display Agnon's writing.
Set in Poland in the early 1900's this is an immersion into a totally different way of life, with all the Jewish names, foods, holidays, prayers, Biblical references, and customs. It is most interesting for all that background information, rather than for the story itself which is, well, very simple.
I was forced to read this book for school. The fact that I love Agnon's command of the language and cultural references, I thought this book moved slowly and was boring and agitating. And what kind of book is it when the people who fall in love don't end up together?
The author, Agnon, developed the characters well enough that I was willing to complete the book. However I did not find anything particularly interesting about the plot. It might be a case of reading an OK book in the midst of great books, or of a strong writer with an average plot.
If I could I would add half a star, it's an engaging read and at times humorous in that old world polish sort of way - read it for the book club and it didnt generate too much discussion - but anyway it was a pleasant and well paced novel, i would recommend it as a decent light read.
Delightful. The descriptions were like looking at a naive art painting - colorful and full of life. And the story - about as simple as peeling an onion, layer by layer - was equally enchanting, if a bit stilted.
It was indeed very simple,naive and old-fashioned. It felt like a visit to grandma's house, filled with doilies and stale sweets.
the first few chapters are beautiful, but the book starts to wander from there. It really is a simple story. Interesting to read a Hebrew/Israeli Yiddish story - definitely felt different.
East European Ashkenazic romantic angst. A fluid tale and perhaps more common than other stories.
