https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1228628.Brain_Wave
I believe this is a story begging to be allowed to breathe and develop and I think if Poul had been given the opportunity, this would be a 500 page, wide net examination of the many facets of what it means to be human.
As it is, we are limited to following a handful of individuals: Peter Corinth, a brilliant (by pre-change standards) research physicist; Sheila Corinth, Peter’s wife; Felix Mandelbaum, a union official; and Archie Brock, a mentally handicapped individual.Within the four individual stories we see the struggles faced by most of the world’s population as they come to terms with the extreme increase in intelligence.
Poul Anderson’s Brain Wave is a novel concept: earth has been existing in a force field that inhibited brain activity for eons.
Then, we finally move out of the field and suddenly all animal life, people and animals, experience a radical increase in intelligence.
I enjoy his writing and his approach to this unique idea, but the story itself was disjointed and unbalanced.
If this had remained a short story, and if the plot had been more linear, this would have been much better.
As it is, it is still very entertaining and enjoyable and Anderson’s wonderful imagination is in full form.
I almost squeed like a little girl with the idea that EVERYTHING on the planet got intelligent practically overnight.
Oh, like the assumption that with great intelligence the desire to prolong your own survival goes away.
I mean, come on, don't you think that if we got smarter we'd see right through that bullshit and roll up our sleeves?
I could make a good case that unhappiness in the very intelligent comes from being alone and unfulfilled.
I'd love to see what everyone else might come up with, because the idea is still fantastic and there can be a ton of really great play, here.
Folks whose limited mental abilities previously excluded them from mainstream society are boosted to genius level, but genius level is childlike in the new world order and these former outcasts are as separate from society as before, but with a far greater capacity to understand their separation and what their impairments mean for them.Anderson's exploration of the impact of all this extra brainpower is convincing, entertaining and thoughtful.Surprisingly, Brain Wave has aged pretty well.
Apparently Anderson felt that Brain Wave was among his best books, and I would add that it is one of the better works of SF from the 1950s that I've read.
I particularly loved the parts of the book which took place on a recently abandoned farm operated by a mentally-disabled man (now of near-genius I.Q,) named Archie Brock, how he coped with the revolt of the crafty pigs and came to regret the slaughter of the sheep, who were now consciously, creepily, aware of their fate.
(For years I remembered a particularly fine passage in which it was obvious that the sheep—with the help of their Lord and Slaughterer Archie—would soon be forming a religion.)As sometimes happens with re-reads, I discovered I was right about the parts of the book I remembered, for these were the parts that worked well.
The blurb on the front cover of the paperback version reads "A panoramic story of what happens to a world gone super intelligent!".
Such a deceptively simple premise, it seems like anybody can write a story about this.
However, Poul Anderson is one of sf's all-time greats, and here he managed to spin out a lot of imaginative yet entirely believable ramifications from such an event.Referring back to that aforementioned blurb again the "panoramic story" part refers to a multiple viewpoints structure which allows the author to create a detailed post-IQ boost world.
Throughout earth's history, it has been in a region of the galaxy where some sort of force field has inhibited the activity of brain neurons.
As the solar system spins around the galaxy, the earth exits this region, and almost overnight, all living creatures with brains are impacted.
People who previously had an inner purpose in life, some aspiration or goal, use their new boost in intelligence to their advantage, and to society's advantage as well.
People who previously had no goals, ambitions, or purpose in life have great difficulties--they still retain their old personalities, their superstitions and prejudices, and become despondent or even violent.
Anderson's book tracks the progression of this new era by focusing on a few central characters: Peter Corinth, a physicist at the NYC-based Rossman Institute, a think tank that is one of the first to discover the reason for humanity's great change; Sheila Corinth, Peter's wife, who cannot adapt to her newfound brain power and suffers a literal mental breakdown as a result; Felix Mandelbaum, a labor organizer who rises to prominence after the great change engenders a host of world-altering dilemmas; Nat Lewis, a Rossman biologist; and finally, Archie Brock, a mental simpleton before the change, but now left in charge of millionaire Rossman's upstate NY farm, seeing to the suddenly rebellious pigs and cows (for some reason, those attacking farm animals brought to my mind the similar ferocious domestic critters in the 1956 sci-fi film "Beast With a Million Eyes") with the assistance of some escaped circus animals--an elephant and two chimpanzees!Long considered a classic of sorts, today, "Brain Wave" seems to enjoy a mixed reputation.
Written in the mid fifties, this book postulates what would happen if the Earth emerged from a ray that dampens intelligence so we are all suddenly a lot smarter. So are animals. This is pure SF, one of my early reads & the reason I kept reading it. No, it's not perfect, but there is a lot of room for thought here & Anderson does a great job of providing it.
Dar iată că datorită mișcării orbitale a sistemului solar în jurul centrului galactic, Terra a ieșit din câmpul inhibitor iar oamenii și animalele au experimentat brusc o creștere explozivă a inteligenței.
Dar nu mai prețuim lucrurile din trecut, decât ca instrumente pentru strădania animală de a supraviețui sau de a trăi în confort.
Care sunt realizările tale din trecut?
Totul există pentru mine doar în măsura în care cunosc.
– Într-o zi va coborî marele întuneric, eu nu voi mai fi...
nimic nu va mai exista!
Dar pentru mine nu va mai fi nimic, nimic, nimic.
As I read it, it did have all that stuff that Anderson does that sorta irks me from previous books of his, such as overly sentimental soap opera small talk between 'important' scenes.
The overall premise of the story is absolutely great: We humans and animals here on Earth had been impaired for many millennia by some cosmic field.
As I have mentioned, little slight annoyances, such as a two tier class of citizens - enlightened geniuses who longer feel the need to stay on Earth and the 'gone insane' and somewhat now smarter morons (apes included) those having the pleasure of doing the laborious work such as building and farming and keeping the 'machine' going while the 'enlighten' ones spent their time doing a lot of thinking...
Posit a galactic field that reduced our ability to think. We develop our intelligence & technology under the influence of that field & then we move out from under its influence. Suddenly everyone on the planet doubles their IQ. What would happen to our civilization, to the everyday people? That's the basis that Anderson uses for this book & it's well done.
Brain Wave: A fascinating idea3.5 stars from Kat and 4 stars from Sandy, read more at FANTASY LITERATURE
A great classic. If you have not readed this novel yet I recommend it to all the science fiction readers.
Brain Wave its premise is simple: for millions of years the part of the galaxy containing our solar system has been moving through a vast forcefield whose effect has been to inhibit "certain electromagnetic and electrochemical processes" and thus certain neuronic functions. When Earth escapes the inhibiting field, synapse-speed immediately increases, causing a rise in Intelligence; after the book has traced various absorbing consequences of this transformation, a transfigured humanity reaches for the stars, leaving behind former mental defectives and bright animals to inherit the planet.
Nati per governare persone molto meno intelligenti.L'intelligenza si mostrerebbe come arma a doppio taglio.Qualcuno la accoglierebbe a braccia aperte, diventando più conscio di sé e del mondo, ma altri impazzirebbero: tutti questi pensieri, tutte queste diramazioni, tutte queste conseguenze.Semplicemente, ci sono persone che non sono abituate a pensare sul serio e che, se ci si ritrovassero, non saprebbero come reagire; uno dei personaggi riassume parte del concetto così: Perché non vogliono [capire].
The general effect is that "normal" and smart people act like they have Asperger's syndrome.
So things are a too stereotypical in the book.The other part (a typical 50's assumption from a time of economic opportunity) is that only the "lower orders"- the mentally slow- will do the grunt work of society.
But take a look at the ranks of "The Fallen"- people who had challenging, high-paying jobs prior to 2001.
"Unemployment" means "currently receiving unemployment insurance payments".) Back to the book: So no, I think that very smart people are capable of doing boring, dirty jobs.
I first read this book 30 years ago and as a teenager it blew me away.
Anderson's characters are fully realized and his descriptions of the loss and displacement caused by everyone on earth, animals included, having their IQ suddenly and drastically increase, are detailed and moving.
I can't believe that Anderson didn't get the Hugo award for this, especially when you realize that the 1955 Hugo went to "They'd Rather Be Right" which is widely regarded as the biggest piece of crap that ever won the Hugo.
This is an old sci-fi classic. The premise might seem a bit silly -- Earth suddenly passes through a region of space that causes every living thing's intelligence to increase by an order of magnitude -- but it's your typical "high concept" early sci-fi story. I haven't read it in many years, but I remember it being a good read, with the world truly changing as a result.
That left it feeling a bit impersonal - there seems very little chumminess between the protagonists (or may I'm mistaking the formality of the past for lack of friendliness, but nobody seemed particularly relaxed around each other, like the stiff convention of a business meeting).It's a bit rough to complain about a book from the 50's feeling dated - nobody would expect authors to be able to future-proof their stories - but I feel safe in saying that there are some aspects to this story that the modern reader might find a bit annoying.The attitude towards women is one - of the two main female characters, one is weak and witless for the majority of the time (except for one moment of suicidal bravery) and the other (a scientist!) while stronger and smarter, is seen as cold, 'cannot keep a man' and is rarely ever mentioned except in the context of her desire for the main male protagonist.Also, some of the language used is a bit of a curveball.
Classic sci-fi. What if everyone suddenly just got smarter? Fun read.
one of his top five novels.Poul Anderson tells this story from two different perspectives: one a scientist who is already very intelligent, and the other a farmhand who can’t even operate a car.
This was a good way to tell the story because it kind of lets us see both ends of the spectrum.The first perspective is that of Peter Corinth, a physicist in New York City and a genius by pre-change standards.
In an interesting twist that I’ve never seen in science fiction before, it turns out that humans are the most advanced beings in the universe.The second perspective is that of Archie Brock, a hand at a farm not too many miles distant from the New York City limits.
What I Didn’t Like: One aspect dampened my enjoyment: The hero patronizes his lover, a brilliant female scientist named Helga, and she just accepts his disrespect.
The hero is really pining after his sweet, beautiful, docile and stupid wife Sheila; but she, unlike his brilliant female scientist lover Helga, can’t handle the increased brain capacity.
I loved the idea, the characters (mostly), their individual adventures and the worldbuilding, and I can see why the story was included in the treasury of great sci-fi.
Also, the book is only 180 pages and while it addresses some interesting topics, such as what effect increased intelligence would have on religion and what is going on around the world, it never goes into these topics with much depth.
If Anderson would have doubled the length of the book and kept the quality up this could have been a wonderful story, instead it was interesting but forgettable read.
We see Brock come to terms with his new intelligence as he realizes his place in the world and for the first time understands how much smarter everyone else is.
Si là aussi cela donne lieu à quelques scènes de panique et quelques conflits, le roman est plus optimiste en ce sens que l'Humanité en sort grandie, capable de partir à la conquête des étoiles, et libérée des guerres et des mesquineries.Un message très positif donc, symptomatique de cette époque dorée de la SF américaine.Les trois nouvelles (Les arriérés ; Technique de survie ; Terrien, prends garde !) sont également de bonne tenue, chacune s'appuyant sur une facette différente de l'intelligence (la débrouillardise, le génie, la faculté d'adaptation...).
It was trite, it was tripe, it really did not have anything to say about the human psyche or how it would react to an increase of IQ.Not so with Brain Wave.
In Brain Wave, the increased ability to process and handle information is not this magical gift...
Brain Wave is about a world where every living organism has its IQ increased on Earth...
Poetic at times, Brain Wave causes the reader to ponder what role intelligence plays in 'being human'.And yes, there is, briefly, a monkey with a shotgun riding an elephant named Jumbo.
Like a rare find, Brain Wave published in 1954 from one of the Grand Masters of Science Fiction, Poul Anderson, is a book to enjoy and not rushed through.
In this novel Earth moves out of a field that had a dampening effect on the intelligence of all animals and people in the world.
It’s nice to be reminded how a good writer could write a tight story that almost seems like a novella now compared to the average 500 page novels of today.
While I enjoyed the book I wanted it to be written to today’s length.
The Earth moves out of some kind of force field, and suddenly, all electromagnetic and -chemical processes change; not only do instruments go out of wack, everyone and everything with a brain triples in intelligence.
There are great bits, like intelligent chimps rising elephants and teeming with African tribes; the story of Brock, the one-time moron, is particularly resonant.
Overall, it’s certainly a supremely optimistic view.
As one character in the book notes, just because people are smart doesn’t stop them from doing stupid things like speeding or smoking; nor does intelligence always erase prejudice.
It’s sort of a nice touch.
and its not like don't have hobbies that allow them to veg slightly) he captures the feel of a society in flux both on a macro (the economy changing, new technologies coming to the fore) and a micro level (the language shifting and becoming more subtle between people) and in doing so relays not just how it feels to understand more than you ever imagined but to struggle with understanding what exactly that understanding means.And that last bit becomes most important when following one of the scientists' wives, Sheila who was quite content with being a devoted housewife until she gets super-smart and suddenly can't handle the onslaught of existential crises that develop when you start understanding the stuff that before you really didn't bother thinking about.
Also, as is so frequently the case in older sci-fi, the women were either wives or secretaries.
And the only women with a career was described in terms of the emotional support she gave to an unobtainable man.However the real problem for me with older sci-fi is that they are so speculative.
Becoming so clever is claimed, in a pompous fashion, to be a step forward for humankind but the world is cold and sad.This book was interesting as a classic but hasn’t turned me into a Poul Anderson fan.
