https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1561703.Diary_of_an_Oxygen_Thief
I loved how, throughout the book, the author said something along the lines of "if this gets published" or "if this ever sees the light of day" because really, how did this get published?
Without a doubt one of the worst books I have ever read.
The whole "story" is 95% him complaining about how horrible his life is while the other 5% is how horrible he was treated by the girl he loves (and by love I mean obsesses over, thinks about hurting her, and then condemns her for doing the same thing to him that he's done to countless women before with very little remorse).
I'm worried about the impressionable young adults who will pick up this book and think that this is a story of love and redemption.
The opening line "I liked hurting girls." grabbed me and the following pages made my heart pound as I realized that what was done to me in my lifetime was all documented in this diary.
An alcoholic's account of his misogyny is brutal and hard to take at times but the author makes it easy to read because of his honesty, grace, introspective remorse, all interlaced with humor.
I read it in an afternoon.
I laughed out loud, I cried and had to put it down to stop my heart from beating so hard.
I've read it twice since first picking it up six months ago.
I have a feeling that the people who dislike this book have never had intentional, premeditated pain inflicted on them by someone the victim would describe as a "loved one". Anyone who has had this happen to them will need to put the book down a few times, perhaps unable to finish. That is only a testament to the truth of the writer's voice. It isn't flowery writing. There is nothing lovely about it. It is a little raw and a little ugly but that is how pain is put down on paper.
self-absorbed, masturbatory 'catcher in the rye' ripoff.
Local Man Absolutely Cannot Take What He Gives, Spends Two Hundred Pages Trying To Convince You It's Everyone Else's Fault
No. A couple things; First off, to the author on the back of the book who compared this to F.
How dare you compare this garbage to one of the greatest authors of all time?
Please for the love of all that is good, monitor your children.
This book is NOT, I repeat, not for children.
The author of this book is whiny and annoying from the beginning and this book does nothing but romanticize the idea of hurt people hurting people.
This book paints a picture of the most screwed up idea of love and shouldn't be idolized by anyone.
(hide spoiler)]Diary of an Oxygen Thief is written as an actual diary by, as you can see above, Anonymous.
I'm not cured of it, but I don't set out to systematically dismantle like I used to." pgs 6-7 ebookI don't know that I've ever disliked a character in a book as much as I despised this 'Anonymous'.
I didn't know if I was going to be able to finish this book, given how much I hated the beginning, but, just like the numerous women in his diary, I was drawn into the Oxygen Thief's lair and then (gasp) began to feel sorry for him.Partially, it was because he manages to clean himself up in AA.
Here’s the thing; I don’t normally review or rate the books I dislike, I don’t like bashing them, especially if the author is still alive.
I really enjoyed it.It’s like when you hear serial killers say they feel no regret, no remorse for all the people they killed.
Why did people kill each other?Because they enjoyed it”.He tried many times during his narration to give excuses on why he was the way he was.Whether it was the fact that he was sexually assaulted or that he was neglected by his father as a child.
I really enjoyed this book I was rooting for the villain in this one, hoping he would mend his wicked ways....great book!
I think I am responding so intensely because I saw the demographic of people (read: impressionable young teens) that frequently requested this book and I am seriously appalled that so many of them have read it.
It's an unapologetic and even romanticized account of a manipulative and narcissistic garbage dump of a person who hurts people without remorse and paints himself as a victim (which, by the way, is bullshit).
This is the story of a damaged person that chooses to hurt people in retaliation for being damaged, and wants you to feel sorry for him.
"Romance has killed more people than cancer. Okay...maybe not killed but dulled more lives."
Holden Caulfield falls in love with Lolita. Are you fucking kidding me? The narrator was unbearable and the plot unrealistic for a supposed "true story". I kept thinking that the end would redeem it, but it was the worst part.
Possibly the worst book I have ever read. The narrative viewpoint is fun as its like an internal monologue; however, the storyline was tedious and drawn out. Could comparatively make 50 Shades of Grey look like high brow literature.
I know I'm probably not supposed to like this book but in reality its one of my favorites of the year. I couldn't believe it, mouth hanging open, aghast, and loved it!!!
How did this book get published?
Seriously.I only read it because i came across the first page of it on tumblr and i thought well, the person who wrote this must be sick but i want to find out if there is a reason behind what he's doing.
I like hurting girls.
Mentally not physically, i never hit a girl in my life.
The only aspect i actually enjoyed in this book, is that even the author was wondering if this would ever get published.
This was a terrible waste of paper!I thought there would be some kind of philosophy behind all of those psycho thoughts and doings! But it turned out to be just that: a silly childish mindless dickhead bully venting about his obsession of hurting innocent girls! No more!Disgusting.Boring.
‏This was a terrible waste of paper!I thought there would be some kind of philosophy behind all of those psycho thoughts and doings! But it turned out to be just that: a silly childish mindless dickhead bully venting about his obsession of hurting innocent girls! No more!Disgusting.Boring.
3.75. When I first picked this book up almost a year ago, it really captured my attention. The beginning was strong and compelling, then towards the middle, it felt as if there was no direction and I couldn't figure where it was going. Therefore, I got distracted and hadn't picked it up again. I'm glad I picked it back up because the last third of this was excellent.This should be a quick read and regardless of the anticlimactic midpoint, I definitely recommend you check this out. It has, in my opinion, a very strong message.
Once you read this book, you'll be in constant search for another that is just like it. So incredibly truthful whether the actual story is fiction or nonfiction. I've never read a book quite like it, you'll be hating yourself for loving the narrator from start to finish.
Yeah, count me in with those who don't really get the hype. There's nothing that feels particularly revelatory or well-written here, and the stream-of-consciousness jumping around time stuff gets wearying over the very slight 151 pages. Read SO SAD TODAY instead.
I feel like this story has really great potential for someone who can weave in some more story line for this to become something spectacular. The fist page draws you in. I wanted to hear more of those horrible details, but actually got very few. This was just too rushed. In the hands of a wonderful fiction writer, I think this could be great.

I don't like what it might imply about me and my own view of acceptance and redemption, but I think the author captured lightening in a bottle by pushing us the brink of the abyss, forcing us to look into the darkness, and asking us to try and see what little light might possibly exist, even in the most despicable of characters.
Though hugely adult in terminology, context, and themes, it becomes a barometer for truth with oneself and learning to fight ones own demons to become a more enlightened human being.
After reading this book, I have no doubt as to why this author chose to stay anonymous.
I'm not one who has to like the character/characters in a book to enjoy it, and I do have an interest in the human condition, but the author's misogynist bullshit was difficult for me to digest.
I doubt I would finish this one if it was any longer than 150 pages.
If the author's story had been written from a psychologist's point of view, I probably would have enjoyed it.
I'm not giving this a rating because I honestly have no idea what to think of this book.
A couple of teens came to my library and requested it.
Libraries aren't meant to restrict.
When it arrived I thought I should at least try to read it, which I did.
The narrator likes to hurt girls, not physically.
He works out how to lure a girl in, make her fall in love with him and then dumps her.
I am not the target audience and couldn't keep reading the arrogant style of humiliation.
I don't fancy the idea that some readers could get off on the idea and use the book as a how-to guide.
I kind of kept thinking I was just waiting for the story to start, but the writing was just like having a conversation that I couldn't interrupt.
It also helped that I met the author (or so he said, being Anonymous it's hard to tell, except that the man I met actually was Irish and living in New York so I suppose maybe his story lines up) so I had a kind of face and personality to put with the character already.
I was very glad that I put a hold on Dubliners to pick up this other read by, as it turns out, none other than, another actual Dubliner.
Honesty is such a valuable commodity these days it should be listed on the stock exchange. First there was A Woman in Berlin and then Go Ask Alice. Now there's Diary Of An Oxygen Thief. One of the scarier side-effects of spending time with this narrator is that you catch yourself identifying with him. It really does feel like you're reading someone's diary. It's got the makings of a cult classic and yes, a great film too.
This book was actually quite interesting to read, I surprisingly didn’t hate the main character aha probably because the book was so short I found that I kept wanting to read so I could finally figure out what was happening which was nice I’m probably not going to read the next book though
We are not punished for our sins.
We are punished by them." I have no idea what to say.
The narrator of this book is narcissistic, over-bearing, and down-right arrogant.
The narrator of this novel has struggled with alcoholism in his past and opens the novel with a confession that he likes to hurt girls, emotionally never physically.
I look back on my previous relationships and see glimmers of the people I have dated.
It is scary to look someone like that in the face.
Overall, it's hard to express how I felt about this book.
Mostly sad, as to how much I could see previous relationships in this book.
