https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52822.The_Misanthrope_Tartuffe_and_Other_Plays
Moliere is funny. In all of my theater classes in college during which I never read anything (other than Master Plots summaries and other people's notes) I never really paid much attention to the things we were supposed to do. It makes me sad to think that now that I have read some plays I should have read 11 years ago, I have no one to talk to about how damn funny they are, oh well, life lessons!
I'm not the greatest fan of theater and I'm not very good at reading plays. I tend to be underwhelmed by them. Moliere's are no exception. That being said, I did enjoy them. I just didn't find them to be brilliant which is more a shortcoming on my part than his, I'm sure.
I read Tartuffe on a plane and really enjoyed it.This is a good translation that was enjoyable to read.
The superficial entertainment of the 16th century French courtiers was too dated for me.
Very clever speeches, some of which were brought into the film Moliere.
I particularly like the Misanthrope who always speaks his mind and when asked his opinion of a poem starts gently in the third person with "I tried to tell this friend not to write any more".
Has to be acted to be appreciated.
There is one play about wife being beaten with a stick by her husband, a bit politically incorrect these days, I wonder how it would be acted in a contemporary production.
There aren't enough Moliere productions.
I just read Tartuffe and I have to say I liked it. Moliere raises some interesting ideas, reality vs. appearance, hypocrisy vs piety, and how even true piety can lead people astray. I can see the revolution brewing. I also want to mention that Slater, very bravely, translated the French into rhymed couplets. I loved that.It was fun to read, reminded me of Dr. Seuss.
Well, this is sort of a lie because I didn't read the entire book - I only read Tartuffe. Haha! Maybe some day I will read the others, but for now, I only wanted to re-read Tartuffe. It's such a fun play! I really like the characters. The fact that it all rhymes is kind of fun too, but at times, gets annoying. I'd love to be in a production of this. I think it'd be a lot of fun.
LOVE Moliere, he's like a French Oscar Wilde, very witty and satirical. Tartuffe is hilarious, and so is The Imaginary Invalid. Good 'reading' plays, as opposed to plays that are best on stage only. The language in these is so rich that it practically reads like a novel.
I really enjoy all of Moliere's work. He's funny; even being so long ago, the comedy holds. I saw School for Wives and nearly laughed my head off, especially when the actors over-acted, which I could picture Moliere doing on stage; all part of the satire.
Actually, not so much recommending this specific book as much as I am recommending reading everything by the man. I would say if you have never read anything by him, to start with Tartuffe, where you can get an instant appreciation for his (beautifully barbed) insight into human nature.
I read "The School for Wives" for a theatre class. The social commentary is intriguing as it deals with the issue of femininity from the male's perspective. Women, despite being a minority and socially subjugated, hold the most power in this play by virtue of the male fear of cuckoldry.
French people.....sheesh!
Hilarious and enlightening. I understand a lot more about French humor, and even the odd affection for Lewis, now.
A great comic genius - and so reassuring to find I've been speaking prose all my life!
I read these in about 1961 but read them in French.
Tartuffe's an interesting play-- yet it ends rather abruptly, as if Moliere decided, I need to end this thing. = ]
Written in french prose, but elegantly translated into English without butchering the delicate rhyme schemes.
Moliere is the best, just the best. As much as I like Tartuffe, I think the Misanthrope even better.
Witty satire of the 16th century court life! Very fun and a quick read!
Translated to English, but still in the original poetic form: 12 syllables per line in rhyming couplets. I Don't know why they left out "The Mider," except to sell another book.
This wasn't one of my favorites. Perhaps it was the play formate but I didn't understand what was going on at all.
When I have the time, I'm checking out the French.....including Proust! God help me.
I would love to re-read this in a seminar setting. Incredibly enjoyable.
Moliere's best plays.
Moliere, amor.
It was pretty good. I didnt understand some of the language but it was good all in all.
I only read Tartuffe, it was a quick read, and I definitely understand the family's irritation, but it wasn't the greatest thing I've ever read.
