https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1413659.The_International_Jew
I downloaded a free copy and started to read it, but gave up after a couple of chapters - it is such unadulterated drivel.
However, since we are all having a discussion on free speech, I am interested in what everyone thinks about Henry Ford's right to it - even though what he writes is hard-core antisemitism, totally unpalatable to the West.My point here is that I feel most Muslims, even the moderate ones, may feel the same kind of anger when the prophet is caricatured, that the Westerner feels when Jews are insulted as a race.
Is there a limit to free speech?
Some say, Henry Ford is a racist. He clearly stated on the title, and keep repeating using the same term inside the book, The "International" Jew..thus this means not all Jews, it is specifically to describe the Zionist movement. If you can't read between the lines, don't read this book. Henry Ford is a genius.

هذا الكتاب هو مجموعة مقالات تم نشرها في صحيفة ديربورن انديبندنس الممولة من هنري فورد بين عام 1920 م و1922م.
وقد كتبت من قبل خبراء للبحث في المسألة اليهودية واثرها على المجتمع الأمريكي والعالم أجمع.
المقالات تؤكد بأن اليهود هم وراء جميع المؤامرات في العالم وهم وراء الحروب و فساد السينما والكتب والأسواق وكل شيء.
وكل هذا يندرج ضمن مخطط معد مسبقا بإحكام وينفذ بمنهجية.
وستجد في الكثير من هذه المقالات بأن المشكلة هي ليست مشكلة دين، بل هي مشكلة عرق ينتمي لقبيلة واحدة يرى بوحدة هذه القبيلة أينما كانت.
فيه الكثير من التكرار إلا أنه يفتح العيون إلى أشياء كثيرة خافية على عامة الناس.
It wasn’t without cause that Hitler and Nazi Germany awarded Henry Ford the highest honor they had for a non-citizen – Grand Cross of the German Eagle.While reading this horrible, horrible collection of essays written by the horrible, horrible racist Henry Ford, I was reminded of the Islamophobic rhetoric of men like Glenn Beck and David Barton and “organizations” like the Tea Party. The parallels between the anti-Semitism of the 20th century and the Islamophobia found in the 21st century is disturbing – I’m looking at you too, Europe.
The whole purpose of the book, I believe, is to open a dialogue and discussions around his observations that are in fact pretty accurate.
Though early in the book he states Jews control pretty much all intellectual and power institutions (Left/Right/everything in between), he focuses strictly on the Left, Hollywood, social sciences, and other "stereotypical" Jewish dominated industries.
He leaves out the other side of the coin, that Jews dominate rugged individualism, entrepreneurial spirit, capitalism, liberty, and everything that makes America great and what it is today.
i dont really have a lot to say about this book especially with protocols of Zion.but i like the way writer said.just look around and observe yourself.kind of anti semitic but that's for another story.good read and all.go read it and figure it out yourself.
.. أنصح الجميع بقراءته .. فتح ذهني لأمور كنت غافلة عنها .. !
I wish I read this book in English version....
not that I say that I am better in English, only that some of the translation confused me and made me curious to know the original sentencesI'm not a big fan of "serious books" like this one.
Part of it because I enjoy having my imagination runs wild when I read a fiction book.
while non-fiction books, although it makes me smarter ....
It makes me scared to know the fact that this book was originally published in 1977 ...
well you might not understand what I am saying unless you read the book....
non-fiction facts....
---------EARLY 1920’s: JEWS WANT TO CONTROL THE NARRATIVEWith reference to the discrediting of the 1918 pogrom horror stories about Poland, Henry Ford succinctly commented, “Mr. Morgenthau, apparently, put in too much of this background, though at that he put in very much less than the other investigators, except Mr. Samuel.
The amount of mental gymnastics was hilarious, but let's skip that and go for what bothered me the most.Jews aren’t people according to this book.
Also, it claims that Anglo-Saxons are first a race (anthropologists want a word with you), second the only ones capable of producing goods, third – the only ones with a civilization.
Everyone else apparently has no culture, no capabilities and must work for the Anglo-Saxons master race.
Only us eastern europeans who according to Ford can choose between being slaves to the jews or to the Anglo-Saxons.
This book outlines the general ideas about Jews at the beginning of the 20th century and why the general population may have held them.
Other things like gravitating towards international trade glosses over the fact that all people have to survive and support their families somehow.
People who aren’t familiar with the history of anti-semitism and the legal restrictions arbitrarily placed on Jews might be seduced by claims like the ones made by Ford.
I can’t in good conscience recommend this book to anyone unless they specifically seek to study the history of 20th century anti-semitism in America, in which case it is an excellent example.
US's unpublished book
I read this for a paper I wrote on Ford. This is a valuable historical record of Ford's irrational anti-Semitism.
..mengetahui sesuatu di balik sesuatu, membuat kita lebih bijak menilai, menimbang, menyikapi, semuanya..
Organised.. and bottom line: scary..
Hiçbir güç bana azılı bir kapitalist olan Henry Ford'a methiye düzdüremez fakat bu demek değildir ki kolaya kaçıp kendisine "anti-semitist" yaftası yapıştırıp iftira atayım.Henry Ford'un kitap dahilinde argo tabirle giydirdiği Yahudiler, kitaba ismini veren Beynelminel Yahudiler, yani açık bir şekilde hedef tahtasında siyonistler var.
Evet, bu eleştiriler yapılırken Anglo-Sakson övücülüğü had safhaya ulaşıyor fakat bütünüyle mantıksız, saçma veya ırkçı olarak nitelendirilebilecek savlar yok, en azından savlarının hepsi bu nitelikte değil.Bütünüyle "ırkçı" görülse dahi (ki özel bir çaba gerektiriyor bence) o kadar da boş veya sıkıcı bir kitap değil.
Bugüne kadar hâlâ aklımdadır Ford'un Yahudiler için söylediği çalışmadan para kazanma teorisi; "antikacılık -> kuyumculuk -> bankacılık"Sözün özü, direkt olarak ağızdan tükürükler saçarak Henry Ford'a anti-semitist demekten ziyade bi' okuyun.
Total BSIt looks like Henry Ford had far too much time on his hands. The thing that really stuck me was that after going on & on about the Jewish threat to the "Aryans", he then whines about how some Jewish people refuse to intergrate! I guess he wrote this book because there weren't enough Blacks or other so called people of color to lynch in his neck of the woods.
الكتاب مزيف بكل معنى الكلمة، وخسارة تعب المترجم المجيد، أكرم مؤمن، لايمكن أن يكون الكتاب لفورد، وإلا فلن ينشر، والدليل الهلامية الإعلامية المكشوفة ، أنه سرب لينتشر.شأنه شأن كتاب إبادة الكتب، واختطاف كارثة الخ...والصفحة 16 و12 تبين وجهة النظر.تحية
An interesting, illuminating read.
gak yakin kalo penulis nya henry ford
Yahweh shall devour all the people.
Religion was officially banned in the Soviet Union, but synagogues were not destroyed and only Jews were allowed to practice their religion in peace.It looks as though the author took everything he thinks is wrong with the world (e.g. declining morals, bolshevism, rising atheism and others) and blamed it on the Jews' desire to dominate over non-Jews.
Ford talks about what he calls "international" Jews who are scattered throughout the world but still maintain loyalty to the Jewish race and all they do in life is directed to the purpose of discreetly enslaving non-Jews because Jews think they are subhuman and less intelligent.Overall I don't regret reading this book, 2/5, would not read it again.
Un libro que hace una crítica a los "Protocolos de los sabios de Sion" , que tuvó como objetivo analizar los textos y hacer críticas sobre la posturs de los judios posterior a la Revolución Bolchevique y II Guerra Mundial. Lastimosamente la edición de mi libro es EDESA. Y por errores de impresión muchas páginas quedaron en blanco , lo cual mucha información quedó inconclusa. Recomiendo poseer una opinión neutra. Ya que el autor se denota racista e inclinado al nazismo. Como dato curioso éste libro era catalogado entre los favoritos de Adolf Hitler.
qas
Very interesting,this is the unknown Henry Ford!
كتاب رائع جداً .. يفتح عينيك على أسرار مخبئة
