https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/954584.Early_Irish_Myths_and_Sagas
A collection of loosely-organized myths with barely any continuity, long segments of genealogy and repetition like the slow parts of the Odyssey.
Yet even in these rough fragments, there are still fragments of storytelling genius.
There are segments about rolling heads and noble warriors that would fit in well with the The Prose Edda, there are comic scenes of drunkenness, there is a burdened hero, Cú Chulaind, like Hercules, there is even real love and heartbreak.The notes and introduction were essential.
With them, this is a reliable entry point to a vast body of point, but it's still moderately challenging to read.
Feck, those Irish legend lads. Jealousy, cheating, double-crossing, land grabbing, and incest. Throw in a few dodgy planning deals, and the place has hardly changed.
I feel like the translator could have pointed out the inconsistencies and added more notes concerning the content for a better understanding of the text instead of presenting the reader with an at times confusing flow of events with barely any explanation to go with it except a few musings at the beginning of each story.
Originally oral stories, the myths have a lot of repetition in them, a lot more than the Greek tales ever did to the point it gets frustrating at times, especially during such tours de force as the description of heroes in the Destruction of Da Derga’s Hostel.
It is interesting to see how much our reading / viewing patterns have changed since these early days of story telling.
These are male stories, told to a male audience during long, cold nights in festive halls, a bard telling his tales to a warrior audience.
What we focus on today, plot lines involving romantic interests or inner conflicts, are brushed off in the blink of an eye.
Reading them by myself for entertainment value, they are very confusing and tiring.
The most interesting part of this book was the foreword, which was very informative and helpful.
A great book ! Gantz is able to select some of the most interesting Early Irish texts and stories and present them in a very clear way all translated into English.The only thing I miss from this book is sometimes that it could have more references and information about the texts - that would be useful specially for academics who wants to use the early Irish texts as historical sources.In spite of that, it's a nice book and you're really able to have a good contact with early Irish world.
A decent collection, although more material from the Mythological and Fenian Cycles should have been included.
I enjoyed the comical ones the most by far and thought it was rather amusing in itself that they couldn't tell if it was an actual text or an ancient parody of a text.
In the introduction to one it said something like "an older version was discovered which was corrupted and didn't make sense and had parts missing.
The translation was all fine as far as I can tell, it was just the choice of text I thought was weird although it did say that there are really only 2 omissions so maybe this is all there is to choose from.
I'm now even more interested in the modernized versions of Yeats. I don't know much about Gaelic to judge the quality of this translation, but at times it was a bit difficult to read, so I suppose I'll have less problems with that. Anyway, it has been an interesting introduction.
Like half these stories only happen because the Irish will apparently fight anything that moves solely on the basis of 'why wouldn't we fight them?' Cú Chulaind has a power that when he's angry he can pull one eyeball into his head so far that 'a heron can't reach it,' and protrude the other until it's the size of a cauldron.
This is, you will note, the man who can perform the 'hero's salmon leap,' a feat for nine men, and in fact does on several notable occasions.
Weirdly, they kind of made me want to paint every single minor warrior in these stories.
Nothing quite like reading the mythology of my people to remind me why the Irish never took over the world.
Don’t get me wrong, I enjoy the stories and I’m quite proud of being Hibernian.
And you can see snippets of how the Irish subtly permeated the Western world in these stories.
Now, don’t for a second think these stories are told like any other you’ve read before.
You can’t approach these tales thinking like a modern person; best to cast your mind back a thousand, 1500 years and view the world the way an Iron Age Celt might.
This book is a book of myths and sagas that were handed down threw many generations of the Irish. I would recomend to those who can handle reading dry and repitious books. It has color, character and a unique perspective at times, and gives an idea of how the Irish came to be who they are. However, it can be like reading The Silmirilion by Tolkien. The lists of things, names and events spirals out of control at times and gets confusing and boring.
Crammed with soaring severed heads, spilling entrails, and tough guys who growl, "You do not rule me. Clouds of blood will come to you" everytime they hear a warning they don't like, this is enough to convince anyone that it ain't all faeries and Guinness over here...
Great introduction to Irish Myths and Sagas. It is somewhat like a jigsaw puzzle trying to put all the various overlapping pieces together.
"...the resultant repetitions and duplications must have sounded better in a chieftain's banquet hall than they look in print"This is the essential problem with this collection.
The culture that originated these stories was an illiterate one.
These stories were passed along orally, embroidered and embellished, and never told the same way twice.
The subsequent attempts to write them down, then, which this is a translation of, only really capture the framework of the stories around which the storytellers would weave their tales.
For history this is a useful collection, but for entertainment, and that is what these stories are, try Eileen O'Faolain's wonderful Irish Sagas & Folk Tales.
Generally I enjoyed this book. As with any collection of short stories there are those that are superior to others; but, anyone that enjoys mythology will enjoy this book. The translator often compared these myths of the Ulster Cycle to the Mabinogion, which is fair. Personally though, I found the Mabinogion to be a better read.
This particular tradition of myth has taught me how much the way stories are transmitted can affect the structure in which they are told. Its evident when pointed out, but the way it's experienced is really something special, despite how some parts can be tedious to read at times. Some of the stories are bright beacons and make reading the whole thing worth it. Recommended.
This was a bit of a mix. There are some interesting and unique storylines here, but often mixed in with over-done repetition. It does get to a point where it drags the narrative down. Perhaps these stories were originally recited by a chorus of storytellers, each taking a turn at telling one part. And if most of the audience was drunk, perhaps few would notice the repetitions...
Irish tales are difficult to read. They tend to be repetitive which probably worked when recited around a fire. They also appear to be fragmented and stitched together again into a crazy quilted story. Unless you are a student or a scholar I would recommend a worked over and modernized retelling of these stories for the general public like me.
This was my first time reading Irish myths and I have to say... I wasn't that impressed. I figured I'd be hearing all about banshees, fairies, and more. Nope. This book's mostky bickering, guess-who riddles, and repetitiveness. I feel like I'm missing something here.
Excellent resource for anyone wishing to read translations of the the "earliest voices from the dawn of western civilization." The academic introductions assist with understanding the inconsistencies and themes that run through the tales.
I tend to enjoy Gantz's translations. His introductions and notes are littered with personal opinions, which I find quite refershing. A lot of translators feel they are not "academical" enough unless the text is completely sterile. But I feel more engaged this way.
Had to read this book for a class I'm taking, but I loved it!The book has introductions to each tale which really help gain deeper insights. I will definitely be re-reading it.
This was my introduction to Irish mythology and I’ve loved it ever since.
A fantastic collection of Irish mythology, mostly centred around the Ulster/Ulaid cycle.
With comparison to other translations, I really appreciate the archaic word usage for Gaelic in a readable manner.
The stories are very much focused on the drama and struggles of Cu Chulainn, Conchobar and so on.
The introductions are also very enlightening and give good insights into comparisons with other legends and possible things we can deduce about ancient Irish culture.Of course, the writing can be a bit tedious.
I picked up this book to get a cheap and fast introduction to the early Irish story cycles, and it delivered adequately.
The - to our (my?) perspective - strangeness of these tales is much more jolting than the "digressions" in Beowulf or in Homer, and the reader who expects to find anything resembling an epic narrative is going to be disappointed.
The book has a brief introduction to the literature as a whole, short intros to each particular tale, and (a very few) notes.
For what it is, it does an admirable job introducing readers who may only be familiar with The Tain to another, related kind of early Irish literature.
This is a hard book to rate.
The stories contained with in it are often poorly written and confused, but this is not really the translator's fault.
Instead, what we have here are traditional myths and folktales that have been written down very poorly by people of no talent and indifferent commitment.
The translator, Jeffrey Gantz, does the best that he can, but he translates and does not interpolate, so the flaws of the originals remain the same.
That is the right choice, in my opinion.
But that means that the stories are kind of a mess.
I only read about 4-5 of the stories from this book.
Some of them were quite good, but then others didn't seem to have any coherence.
I didn't really understand why things were happening in some instances, especially during "The Intoxication." While these stories may reveal much about Celtic or early Irish culture, they didn't form a very clear picture for me.

Ya maybe I should’ve bought something from Oscar Wilde or W.B Yeats… I didn't feel prepared to read any of these stories, I feel I would’ve needed a translating of all the dialogue between the characters as I did not understand much of them.
I could understand the general underline but I didn’t get immersed in the story and felt like I missed all the good stuff.
I wouldn’t recommend this if you don’t have a base in Irish traditional literature because even with the introductions before each story, it was very hard to get into it.
Part of it is my ignorance of the characters.
Cu Chulain was the only one I had heard of so for most of the stories I had no clue who anyone was.
If I read this again I might try to make a list of who is who.
The other problem I had is that some of the longest stories were mostly spent describing what the characters looked like.
This made for some very frustrating and boring stories.
I'd like to read more Irish mythology but if I reread this it won't be for a long time.
Interesting, and I think my problems with this book were not the book's fault so much as a general problem with trying to compile written fragments of what was largely an oral tradition. The stories were often fragmented or repetitive, but the editor always explained that it was because this one was compiled from a few different fragments, or that one was incomplete, or the other one was probably an earlier version of another one. Probably a better book for scholars than for someone just looking to read mythology for the fun of it.
