https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76802.Godric
A beautiful, beautiful book,it opens with a remarkable line: "Five friends I had, and two of them were snakes." Buechner has conceived a unique writing style to tell the story of the medieval Saxon and unofficial saint, Godric.
It is a story of a self-acknowledged fallen man broken by his sins on the one hand, and of those who would elevate him to sainthood on the other, even in the face of his protests and his freely offered evidence of unworthiness.
The book is Godric's confession of this unworthiness and the expression of his faith.
The life of a medieval hermit and saint, Godric, in his own words and memories, and also as written down by Reginald, a monk.
This gives you a glimpse into the medieval mind, especially into that of one who is sorrowful for his life and spends fifty years in reparation, praying to God. Before visions [or dreams] of a monk, Cuthbert, and a girl, Gillian, Godric lives the life of a peddler, merchant, pirate, steward to a lord, sexton to a priest, then gives his life to God. This beautiful story flowed like the River Wear.
A must-read.
“Five friends I had, and two of them snakes.” Upon reading that first line I was skewered like a live pig, but squealing thenceforward with delight through the rest of book.
“He learned that it was Jesu saved him from the sea, though saved him why, or saved for what deep end he did not learn, nor has he learned it to this day.”The foibles of his saint, Godric, comes with its medieval share of disgusting habits, a mystical view of nature and religion, slavish self-flagellation, inflation of God’s wrath, deflation of his mercy, and a devaluation of self as a parasite that God tolerates.
I found the review below this weekend and was reminded how great Godric is, and how even though I really like A Confederacy of Dunces, this is a better book, and should have won the Pulitzer that year.
And that last year I decided to add this to my "read yearly" list.
So here we go...http://dgmyers.blogspot.com/2010/05/g...6/14/12: Looking at what I wrote last year after my yearly reread of Godric, it strikes me as odd that I was, and still am to some extent upset by the results of a Pulitzer prize contest that happened when I was 5.
Through Godric's biography, Buechner finds the timeless narrative of an unchanging God and the ordinary story of Christian faith, one riddled with moments of doubt (what if Godric had never met his friend Mouse and indulged in thievery; what if he had never left his sister Bercwen behind; what if he'd married and settled) and clarifying visions (Godric receives the word of a gutted porpoise at one point), desolating silence and irrefutable foretelling (Godric is led to his hermitage by the River Wear in a dream visitation by Saint Cuthbert, where he remains the second half of his life), despondency of one's moral ineptitude and the life-giving moments of one's sacrifice and compassion.
This creative retelling of a historical character's life is probably the most poetic, lyrical prose I've ever read. This is a story about a saint who knows he's a miserable sinner, or about the ordinariness of those we call saints, and therefore also about the saintliness of many who we believe to be merely ordinary. What makes a person a saint? Perhaps nothing more than that they never give up the struggle to fight against the sin inside and cry out to God, perpetually, for his mercy.
Godric was such a profoundly unattractive character there that I could hardly picture slogging along with him for 175 pages, and the “earthiness” of the first part of the book, while not inappropriate, given the setting, was...
Still, after the first third or so of the book, things improved and kept on improving, until, by the end, Godric turned out to be everything I'd hoped for.
The book richly conveys medieval attitudes and beliefs, which is partly why I chose to read it (the kids and I are studying the medieval period this year, so a fictionalized “biography” of a 12th century holy man seemed just the thing, but I mainly chose it because I really loved On the Road With the Archangel).
A friend told me I HAD to read this book.
He insisted that I read it for several years.
This past Christmas my husband gave me a copy.
Thanks be to my friend, my husband, and Frederick Buechner — this book is written so well that it's stunning.
I've never read anything like it.
I often read chapter upon chapter aloud just to roll the sentences around in my mouth.
Truly, one of the most brilliant books that will ever exist.So now, allow me to urge you to read this book.
In fact, you can purchase a copy right here:https://store.rabbitroom.com/product/...Read this book.
Read this book.
Read this book.
This was the first of Buechner's fiction that I had ever read, and it was such a good book. Through the story of Godric, which became my story, Buechner explored the darkness of the human heart and how amazing and beautiful is the Love of Jesus. My favorite part of out of the whole book is when he asked himself what prayer was. It is a passage to re-read several times and think over.
I started this several times and couldn't get past the um, earthiness of Godric. At the other end of the book, I wouldn't say I understand him or still even like him that much, but I can see into his life better than I could before. I keep trying to imagine him running into Brother Cadfael.
Easily a favorite book. So rich. Thanks to Paul J. Pastor for the recommendation (and lending me his copy).
Put it right at the top of your list.It is based on the true account of the 11th and 12th century English saint Godric, who lived his early life as a merchant, and then gave all of his money away and became a hermit.
We read it in the Bible with figures like David and Paul and here it from all those that we consider great saints, that they are the chiefs of sinners and that without the grace of God, they would be lost.
This does not mean that these figures can't also be blessed with divine grace in a unique way.
The protatgonist, St Godric tells his story from beginning to end, and end to beginning, each telling coming to a natural, beautifully wrought conclusion at the climax of the book.
The novel succeeds in bringing to life a man and a spirituality that is almost completely out of step with modern sensibilities: Godric is intensely ascetic, practises mortifications of the flesh including walking barefoot for half a century, immersion in bone-cold water, physical chastisement - all the things we find most incomprehensible nowadays - and yet Buechner makes it all completely natural and matter of fact.
Erin, Laura loaned me this book after we'd read some of Buechner's non-fiction together.
I loved the character of Godric and his mix of crabby curmudgeonliness, spiritual longing, and earthy humor.
(Seriously, for a book about a saint there was sure a lot of "earthy humor.") The major events and many of the characters are based on a medieval account of Saint Godric's life, and the novel is framed around Godric telling his story to the writer of that account.
Overall I'd HIGHLY recommend this for English majors or people especially interested in the medieval period or sainthood and Christianity, but great characterization and writing make this a good choice for anyone.
This was a rough and rude Medieval tale of a real-life man who became a hermit.
I loved the language, all Anglo-Saxon and earthy - it set the tone of the time perfectly, and the character of the man.
There was a little bit of everything in this book - even a little Canterbury Tales in the the chapters about Godric's pilgrimage to Rome - that part was my favorite.
I loved the writhing/biting/ferocious struggle between Godric's natural inclinations and his longing to be pure.
It remains one of the most achingly beautiful books I've ever read.
Though, in fairness to the many people I've forced it on over the years, Godric doesn't sit with everyone equally well.
I suspect it has something to do with how people relate to sin and grace, but I'm not going to do a survey of past readers to find out.
Having spent a good portion of last fall reading up on Anglo Saxon hagiography, I'm especially impressed with how the novel builds off of that tradition and upends it at the same time.
Except for all those good saints...
Spent my spare time during my trip to Helena, MT this week rereading Godric. Again, a beautiful book. It is a bit tough sometimes, considering how sinful Buechner makes Godric out to be. But I'm a fan of the kind of reconciliation/grace Godric receives, as well. Life, grace, sin, relationships... all are too nuanced to have untarnished heroes.
A beautiful book for a guy who geeks out on theology and literature. And I am that man. One beautiful thought after another about God, life, and love in this extremely well-written tale. I don't know how I missed Buechner's fiction for so long, but I'm a fan now!

For it is in fiction we can loose our imaginations to see God in fresh ways, or very old ways we have moved beyond, and see God working in people's lives.A very human man, Godric, filled with failings, but persistent in his conversation with God."So ever and again young Godric's dreams well up to flood old Godric's prayers, or prayers and dreams reach God in such a snarl he has to comb the tangle out, and who knows which he counts more dear." (P.
This was heartbreaking on so many levels. I couldn’t recommend it. However, I don’t regret reading it myself. I’m not sure I’ve ever been more grateful to have been born into an understanding of salvation by grace through faith, nor grieved more at the deep darkness and hopelessness that takes hold of a culture that is removed from this. Compelling, beautifully written... and very painful—like a literary self-flagellation.
A phenomenal book filled with abundant humility, serious sins, sincere love, abiding humor and an enlightening look into the depths of God and man.
Buechner took an account of a historical saint from medieval England and built a life with the pieces history had provided.
Moreover, the single more or less constant theme in his life is a relationship that provides the impetus that sends Godric wandering in the first place, and which is ultimately culminated in incest and murder.The thing about sanctity that Buechner might be telling us (and he is indeed saying much, and saying it very well in this book) is that Godric is a saint because he is desperate.
This is the voice Buechner creates for Godric; it is what makes the novel truly come to life.
When we encounter Godric in Buechner's novel, shortly before his death at age 105, he is fuming about Reginald's account.
I scoop out the jakes of my remembrance, and he censes it all with his clerkish screed till it reeks of mass…Just the sight of his sheep-face gives me the cramp."So Buechner lets Godric tell the story of the flesh-and-blood man: the lusty fellow wrestling all his life with his "one-eyed demon"; the seafaring adventurer "plowing the stormy seas for pilfer and prize," the pilgrim to Rome in the dark ages, who describes it as "a corpse without a shroud." Godric's honesty and wit never fail him or us.
"Earthy" and enthralling. A bit grittier than my usual reading. I couldn't put this book down. Moving, insightful, funny.
Godric is Buechner's reinvention of a 12th century saint's life.
It's based on the life of Saint Godric, who in addition to being a hermit and holy man, is earliest known English poet.
Buechner writes the novel as if it were Godric's memoir, dictated to his disciple, Reginald of Coldingham (whose manuscript is the source of all we know about Godric).Godric's life is anything pristine.
And eventually he spends the last 60 years of his life living as a hermit at Finchale on the River Weir.I read this book mostly in the evenings before bed, which was probably a poor choice.
My very favorite book.
There is no way I can describe this book here in this space.
I've read it at least 5 times over.
The date you see is the first time I read it.
It changed my life, my thinking, and outside the bible it's my all-time favorite.
Buechner has the gift, that is for sure.I got turned on to Fred when I read an interview with Bill Mallonee, musician, then with the Vigilantees of Love.
I had never heard of Buechner nor Flannery O'Connor.
He mentioned both, and I ended up with that big thick volume of Flannery's work, along with this book.
This has been one of my favorite books for a very long time which I don't want to spoil by saying too much about it.Here is a story of Heaven and Earth.
With Earth so real you can smell the musty soil, the blood, the pain, the tears.
Heaven so near, and so beautiful, that it lights the Earth and redeems everything done on the Earth.
You jump from person to person, trying to find the safe person to be, the place where you can read the book from behind the mirrored glass and suddenly the light is on you and you have to move.
I discovered this by stalking author Andrew Peterson's highest-rated books on Goodreads and Godric did not disappoint. Some passages made me laugh, some stopped me in my tracks with their beauty, and many demanded reading aloud. This is one of the crassest yet most beautiful books about faith I can name. I'd read this again alongside something by Robert Farrar Capon.
Some books are to be gulped down like cold water on a warm summer’s day. Others are to be sipped like a cup of hot tea. Frederick Buechner’s novel Godric is the latter, to be savored to the last drop. At times profound, at times bawdy, always beautiful on its metrical feet, this work of historical fiction about a medieval English hermit both charms and troubles the reader, alternately plunging to the depth of human depravity and then surging to lofty spiritual heights. It’s no wonder this book was runner-up for the Pulitzer Prize.
