https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15811568-six-years
I cannot compare it to anything else by Coban except for "Stay Close," which was marginally readable.
The love story that drives the dumb plot is dumber than that student writer's first draft.
So Coban hit all the right notes politically.
But none of that can Bandaid a shoddy story and lousy, boring characters who generate no sympathy (from me).
By the time we are told why Natalie disappeared, we have been exhausted by events that do NOTHING to advance the Natalie story.
Many reviewers described this as a wild ride, high-tension, edge-of-the seat thrill.
Not even a little bit of this story was so compelling.
Very very bad writing.
The author neglected to do his research on academic life and Political Science.
Locke and Rousseau weren't political scientists, for example.
Two professors would most likely have some intellectual interests rather than video games and picking up women.
Jake would not have been department chair six years after finishing his dissertation, and "vice" chair is not a powerful position but the job of arranging course schedules if the department secretary doesn't do it.
I don't remember Harlan Coben being this bad in the other novels I have read of his.
Still, it kept me reading.
Talk about a roller coaster of a ride book! This was the first Harlan Coben novel I read and knew from then on I had to read more of his. After this I read The Woods which was just as good. This book captured my attention from the first word and I had a hard time putting it down. Highly recommend!!!
The widow at the service is not Natalie, and Todd had been married to this woman for years before the wedding that Jake witnessed.
The problem is that the whole plot hinges on this idea that even though Jake has pined for Natalie since he lost her, he was able keep his promise to the point where he never even tried to do a Google search or look her up on Facebook once in six years.
There’s some internal character conflict there that Coben does try to have Jake rationalize, but I never really buy it.Also, there’s just too much suspension of disbelief required at a couple of points.
Six years ago Jake Fisher was dumped by his love-of-his-life girlfriend Natalie---she sent him a note telling him she was going to marry her old boyfriend Todd.
She tells him to move on, it's over between them, and "promise me to leave us alone".Six years later...Jake is doing well as a Professor at Lanford College in Vermont, and he has kept his promise to Natalie.
One day, while talking to a student at college, he sees an obituary and the photo in the obituary looks like Natalie's husband Todd.
Why is Natalie's sister acting like they never met, etc...Then Jake receives an email one day that says "You made a promise".
It opens as a college professor named Jake Fisher watches the love of his life, Natalie, marry another man.
They had a whirlwind romance and were seemingly made for each other when Natalie suddenly tells Jake that she has decided to marry an old boyfriend named Todd.
The widow claims that Todd was never married to anyone else, and certainly not to anyone named Natalie.This is a novel by Harlan Coben and so naturally, things will get increasingly stranger as the story progresses.
This is the most suspenseful book I have read in a very long time.
Just when I thought I had it all put together, something else would change and I would have to start guessing all over again.Harlan Coben has written a lot of really good books, but this one is my new favorite.
There is action, suspense, love, longing, murder and every other component that makes for a thrilling read.I was surprised by how well the first person POV worked for this book.
If you are looking for the perfect book to take you away from everything else in your life, this is it.
This is my first time reading Mr. Coben's work and I was thoroughly pleased with his writing and the story. I found out after the fact that Six Years is being adapted into a movie with Hugh Jackman playing our MC Jake.  While I was reading it a good friend of mine asked how I liked Coben's writing. Here is how I responded:"His writing is kind of bare bones, you get the story and not much else but the story is good! It's not thought provoking literature and there are basically no underlying theme
This is my first time reading Mr. Coben's work and I was thoroughly pleased with his writing and the story.
While I was reading it a good friend of mine asked how I liked Coben's writing.
Overall it's a ridiculous story but then he fills in the details and suddenly you see that it makes sense." Our MC Jake is looking for a lady that dumped him six years ago and he feels this lady is his soul mate.
What more can you ask from a summer read?
This book will make you believe in soul mates if you don't already.
His characters are all interesting and well fleshed out so that you come to care about what happens to them.This novel was no exception.
Jake Fisher, a young handsome college Professor, has never recovered from losing Natalie, the love of his life six years ago when she inexplicably dumped him after a perfect summer romance and promptly married an old flame.
Since then he has had a few short term relationships but no one has been able to come close to replacing Natalie.
He loves his teaching job at his small East coast college and is popular with the students and has a good drinking buddy amongst the staff.
First book you read from Harlan Coben will probably end up being your favorite or one of favorites from him.
Natalie left Jake six years ago to marry another guy and she told him at her wedding never to bother them.
And that's where mystery part begins and from there we follow Jake as he slowly reveals what's behind Natalie's actions six years ago.If you read Coben before, you'll find yourself guessing what's next.
Even end is predictable and so similar as it was in previous novels.
(hide spoiler)]My point is this: if you never read Coben before, you'll probably enjoy this more than me.
I have to say, this is the very first book by Harlan Coben I have read.
She makes Jake promise to leave them alone.
Well, he did promise to leave them alone, but there is no more them.
Again, I love this book.
I love that there is mystery, twists and turns, not everyone is who they say they is, and through it all, Mr. Coben has Jake Sanders having such a facetious attitude.
I truly can't believe I had never read any of his books before and he will definitely be on my authors I love list now.
I had forgotten how effortless it is to read a Harlan Coben book. This was no exception. I was instantly drawn into the story. I really liked the main character, Jake. He had a great sense of humor even in the middle of some wild predicaments. There was plenty of suspense but that's really par for the course when reading any Coben book.
[4.5 Stars]
I loved the main character, Jacob Fischer.
He was a smart man that needed answers and wouldn't give up.
This was told in 1st person POV, which in this case was perfect.
But then again, I love 1st person.
It always makes me feel more connected to the character and everything they're experiencing.
Sometimes with this type of genre things are explained but left almost needing some sort of closure--or that might be the expectations of a romance lover--.
Highly recommended for anyone including those of us that need a good change once in awhile.
If you read Harlan Coben at all, then you know pretty much what to expect from his work.
Six years ago, Jake Fisher watched the love of his life, Natalie, married another man.
He was positive Natalie felt the same way he did, but she goes indeed marry Todd and then extracts a promise from Jake to leave her alone and let her live her life.
For six years he keeps his promise, but when he happens upon Todd's obituary, all the old feelings come back to the surface and he decides to attend the funeral, but gets the shock of his life, when the widow is not Natalie.
I was very excited to come across this book a couple of days ago, considering I'd just looked into reserving it at my library.
I found it at a charity store the next day and the lady serving me asked me if she could read it after me!
Why not try to seek her out after this six year period, he has nothing to lose??
From here we follow his story and it was so very easy to read as it was told in a low key conversational tone as we went along on his journey.
Highly recommended and easy reading.
I haven't read anything else by Harlan Coben, so I can't really say if this is consistent with his other work.
Mystery should surprise you and keep you on your toes, but everything from the generic romantic woes to the ending was very linear and mechanized.
I think Harlan Coben's writing seems a little outdated sometimes, and it shows his age (but not necessarily in a flattering way).
The writing itself didn't captivate me, but it did have flow and complimented the types of characters in the book.
I wish Coben had taken more risks with this book, because the plot itself is so overdone.
Wow Harlan Coben never ceases to amaze me his writing is so easy to read & his plots are so consuming he gets you right in Jake Fisher is a professor & loves his students Six years earlier he watched the love of his life Marry another man Todd but he ends up reading his obituary on the internet what follows is a mad race to find out the truth this has lots of twists & turns its one big rollercoaster ride from beginning to end am becoming a big fan of harlan Coben
Jake Fisher met Natalie Avery while they were both at a retreat.
He thought Natalie felt the same but Jake was rocked when Natalie informs him that she and a former boyfriend have decided to get married.
At the funeral Jake is shocked when the widow is not Natalie.
Not only is it not Natalie but the widow had been married to Todd for ten years and they have two children.
He heads back to the retreat where he and Natalie met.
The more he looks into what happened six years ago and what happened to Natalie the more his life begins to unravel.
This book reminded me of a good/bad horror movie with an incredibly stupid protagonist.
But, because I was listening to the audi version, I could multi-task, and the book held my interest enough to make me want to find out exactly what happened to Natalie.
I had already guessed more or less what was going on with Natalie before I got too far into the book.I had to suspend disbelief very, very often.
Additionally, the language is incredibly melodramatic and the narrator in the audio version only serves to accentuate that aspect of the novel.
Then without a single  real  motivation, beyond being entirely emotionally stunted after his dumpage, he goes into a full scale hunt for a woman that not only dumped him and then literally ordered him to stay away, but then didn't speak to him for six years...The weak reasoning behind his involvement was addressed in the novel by the narrator, who acknowledged that there was no real reason to investigate his old  bitch  girlfriend and her possibly late husband, but this just made him sound  really  defensive, as though convincing us he wasn't mental.All we knew about their relationship was that it had been a fairly short-lived affair in a secluded camp, but that it had still been never-ending love.
Boy meets girl, falls head over heels, six months later she marries another?
Six years after Jake had fallen in love with Natalie he is now a professor at a college that her current husband attended.
One day a college announcement comes across his desk that a past Doctorate student has passed away.
Natalie's husband.
When Jake goes to the funeral in hope to see Natalie, the grieving wife is not Natalie.
What is going on?
Jake delves into a search that leads him down a rabbit hole that just may be the last adventure of his life.
Wow. Least favorite Harlen Coben ever.
Usually I can count on him to throw me into the middle of his story and keep me up late with my adrenaline pumping.
I guess I never really bought the relationship between Jake, our protagonist, and Natalie, the woman he had a 3 month relationship with 6 years ago.
Jake decides he's got to find Natalie after a 6 year lapse after an obituary on his school website makes him question what really happened 6 years ago when Natalie dumped him.
How does Jake think things are going to turn out?
I feel like Coben phoned this one in.
I sat in the back pew and watched the only woman I would ever love marry another man.and begins the almost heart-breaking tale of Jake Fisher.Its been Six years since that day in the church when Jake Fisher watches Natalie Avery, his love, marry Todd Sanderson, her ex.
Six years since he's been struggling to live life without her, with the torturing thoughts that left him dumbstruck; when on the wedding day Natalie whispered to him -  Promise me, Jake.
Promise me you’ll leave us alone.”Six years later.
Jake cannot suppress the flicker of hope that arises on seeing the obituary.
I enjoyed it but Jake (main character) was so rigid and a little bit dim and totally love struck!
I can buy it all but it was a bit cheese and formulaic although it was a really good book in the thriller/mystery genre.
Putting together a mystery that fits together like that and the characters to go with it is no mean feat!Impressive but lacking a tiny bit in reality *shrugs* not sure I'm that bothered about reality when it comes to reads like this!
"...skimmed the guests before getting snagged on, well, me." Coben uses that "..well,..." construction on every page, or so it seems.
Combined with the bodice ripper breathlessness in the beginning, it was a hard slog to get to page fifty, the point at which a book must have either set the hook and pass muster, or get rejected.Harlan made the cut, but barely, and while he set the hook, this time his demands for suspension of disbelief were taxing, while the connections he was trying to hide were just a bit too obvious.
3.5 starsThis is a good thriller about a college professor, Jake Fisher, who searches for his ex-girlfriend, Natalie, when he learns that her husband has died.
Jake thought Natalie was the love of his life, but six years ago she dumped him and married another man.
Now, Jake keeps running into dead ends when trying to find Natalie -- she seems to have disappeared.Coben is gifted at pacing a story; each chapter ends on a small cliffhanger, allowing this reader to gobble up the story in (almost) one sitting.
I was so excited when I was given the opportunity to read Harlan Coben's latest work of suspense/thriller fiction.
The story begins with Jake Sanders sitting in a church watching the love of his life, Natalie, getting married to a man named Todd.
After seeing the man Todd listed in the obituaries, Jake sets off on an insane journey of locating his long lost love, Natalie.
Unable to accept no for an answer, Jake is determined to find Natalie.What I love most about Coben novels are that the action never ceases.
I look forward to reading more by Harlan Coben.
What a great read, finished it in two sittings. Having recently finished two rather average books it was nice to read this latest novel by Harlan Coben. Admittedly he is one of my favourite writers but this book grips you from the start and keeps you there to the very end. Fast paced, full of action with lots of twists and turns.
Killer page-turner. One of those books where you don't really care about the characters but you're so invested in the mystery you just keep reading and reading and reading...
