https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49006.The_Darkest_Hour
Fireheart (as he is come to be known) does train to become a Warrior, however, and by the end of the 5th volume, he is Bluestar’s deputy and chief consultant.The Darkest Hour is the final chapter in the first story arch of the Warriors.
The fights between cats are harsh and brutal (the amount of violence at times makes me question how these books could be for small children) and the characterization of the clan cats is so deeply intricate and believable that you can’t help but care for them on an intense, emotional level.After finishing The Darkest Hour, I found myself crushed that my time with Fireheart had ended (the other archs deal with different cats), but I know that he is a character that has forever left a mark on my literary soul.The Warriors series is a strong reminder that one should NEVER judge a book by it’s classification in the library/bookstore.
So glad I decided to reread these books finally. Loved them just as much as I did when I was younger. Gonna go ahead and read the next series. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I seriously need to reread these books again. I haven't read them in a good 10 or so years. These were right up there with Harry Potter.Scourge is one of my favorites. You can't help but love him, even though he's a bit evil. ;)
Bluestar has just lost the last of her nine lives and now Firestar is leader of ThunderClan, now that he has a solitary den his relationship with his clan-mate, Sandstorm, can disappear easily.
But many more problems are coming to the forest.
Since both of the two clans refused, Tigerstar is forced to get a clan of rouges to help him take over the forest.
When the new clan is introduced Firestar tells the leader, Scourge, of Tigerstar's treachery.
As furious as any cat could be Scourge killed Tigerstar with a swipe of his claw.
Oh.My.Gosh. This book was amazing. The warriors series is good, and the ending of the first sereis was surprising and action-filled. Thumbs up!
This book was great to read!
It is part of the series WARRIOR Cats.
In this book Firestar, starting out as a pampered house cat becomes leader of ThunderClan, and the time has come for him and his clan to fight a life or death battle for the future of the forest.
This Book was written by Erin Hunter.
I really enjoy the way she writes, because she makes it seem as if you were in the story yourself, and even though it is all made up fantasy, she makes it seem as if it could actually happen in real life.
No es solo que los personajes tienen que enfrentarse a problemas como pestes, incendios, traidores, hambruna y peleas entre los clanes constantemente; sino que este libro es capaz de transmitir una emoción tan grande que uno se siente dentro de la historia y sufre con ellos (yo personalmente llore durante casi toda la mitad del segundo libro).La historia de la saga en general sigue a un gatito pelirrojo mascota que luego de conocer a un par de gatos salvajes decide ir a vivir con ellos, convirtiéndose en aprendiz de el clan del trueno, uno de los cuatro clanes del bosque.
I'm pretty much over this series. It went on at least 2 books too many. Very repetitive with ridiculous improbable things always happening. Meh... I really liked the first 3 books though.
After the events of the last book, Fireheart becomes Firestar, the new leader of Thunderclan.
What I really liked about Firestar in this book is his ability to completely take control of any situation, but still listens to those around him.
The main plot focuses on the coming battle between Firestar and Tigerstar.
Tigerstar exudes is cruelty in this book.
He does some shocking things and starts to clear the forest of half breeds.
It ends with an emotionally satisfactory moment, which may be a good jumping off point for some, but I can't wait to start the next series of books.
This book contains suspense, action, and is a true epic. The Warriors series itself is a magnificent adventure. In this book specifically, it has alot of action and unexpected surprizes, you can hardly stop reading because nomatter where you stop you want to read more.
With more than 300 pages, this is a great book for children to start expanding their reading comprehension abilities and challenging themselves with longer books.
I love books that get our girls excited to read and this series did that for our youngest.
I like to read whatever they are reading, so we can chat about the stories and discuss the characters and plots.
I am sure that our youngest will want to read all of the different Warriors series, and I will probably read them right along with her.
I'm not sure if I'll love the series, but I certainly like it.
Oh my god, this book was very, VERY, tense and thrilling. The end has come of the series, and it certainly was everything I was hoping for. There is lots of death and it is actually quite sad. This was definatly my favorite book.
ooooooooooooo... aaaaaaaaah...
This was a satisfying and well-written end to an entertaining and thoroughly enjoyable series.
I read these books because when they were really popular at my primary school I was too busy reading 'adult books' and I to see what I missed out on.
I am happy I made the decision to read these books!
Now, I'm not sure if I am willing to put in the effort to continue reading the gazillion other titles in this universe but I'll think about it.
I would recommend these books to anyone who enjoys middle-grade fantasy, cats, and adventure.
All in all, a worthwhile time.
Tigerstar the founder of Tigerclan gave Firestar and Tallstar an offer but with they deny and instead made a clan called Lionclan, Firestar thought that a battle was going to happen just like what Bluestar warned him but with a blink of a eye Tigerstar's plan backfired.
Firestar knew he had to do something or the all will have to leave the forest that was there by all rights and that's when Bluestar's words all made sense to him, so with the future all the clans of the forest in his paws he gathers all the clans and leads them in battle with Tiger clan.
Me costó muchísimo comenzar este libro, ya que es el final de una saga muy, MUY especial para mí.
Así pues, Corazón de Fuego viaja a las Rocas Altas y (tras un demasiado emotivo capítulo) se hace al mando del clan.Pero Estrella de Tigre tiene unos malévolos planes que escapan de las zarpas de todos los gatos del bosque...Una cosa que amé de este libro es que (view spoiler)[ no sólo se centra en la disputa personal de Estrella de Fuego y Estrella de Tigre, sino que va mucho más lejos.
todo es mucho más grande  (hide spoiler)]Y los personajes...
Final volume of the first series. Four became two and then two became one to battle the ultimate threat to the forest. The forest (naturally) was triumphant. I still find inconsistencies that appear to be due to so many authors but it's a good read, every time.
Primera saga que termino, y me encantó, todo. Esta saga me marcará el resto de mi vida. No tengo mucho qué decir, solo que es hermosa y dolorosa desde el primer libro hasta el último.
Despite the fact that I read this book a few years ago, I can still remember the intense emotion and thrills that my pre-teen self experienced after reading the final book of the first arc in Erin Hunter's Warriors series.
With riveting battle sequences executed with seamless transition, the action leaves the young heart pounding, especially with the climax and denouement of the final scenes.
However, this action does not completely overtake the novel's plot, and allows for slower and easier moments to balance things out.
Second read: September 22-25, 2017 Wow!
I had forgotten how intense this last book was.
It was great to reread the first series.
I first read this series when I was 13 and I'm 21 now; I can say that I enjoyed them just as much as I did the first time around.
Firestar fan for life!
Although I'm a little bummed that Firestar will not be the main character.
I recommend these books to anyone who love suspense, cats/animals, and the wilderness.
These books are the best and you will not be able to put them down.
I followed along with Firestar all the way to his receiving of nine lives, and the ultimate showdown with Tigerstar (not to spoil anything, but wow, that was unexpected!) And now, armed with the knowledge about this world, I can move on to other series in the collection.
I knew what I was doing when I picked up the first book, I am just glad my addictions are limited to books and chocolate!The fast paced action and built up mystery make these books.
Add to the mix lovable characters who sometimes make mistakes, brilliant world building and believable history and you have got yourself an incredible collection of books.
I am so glad I started reading these!
Debo confesar que al empezar a leer esta saga de libros, mis expectativas no eran muy altas, esperaba una historia tierna y entretenida, pero me encontré con algo maravilloso, estructurado, muy bien logrado y que me llevo de un lado a otro; en muchos tramos de la historia, incluyendo este último libro estuve al borde del colapso.
Le regalé un par de lágrimas a la historia.Me enamoré de Carbonilla, Fauces Amarillas, Centella y Estrella de Fuego.
Un cierre inesperado, una muerte, que como la mayoría en la historia quisiera borrar, y una lección de vida que llevaré conmigo: la lealtad nos hace grandes.Gracias Erin Hunter...
Read the warrior books in order, so you can really get to know the characters and the clans and so you can really enjoy the full magnitude of the series!
The clans must unite as we see the true colours of some cats.
The book "stresses the importance of caring and community".
This is a gripping end to the original warriors arc, full of bravery, loyalty, battle, good and evil..
Another must read - but if you've been following the warrior books so far I'm sure you'll be wanting to read this one ASAP!
This book was a fabulous ending to the first series involving the lives of these wonderful warrior cats.
I was so shocked by the change of events towards the end of the book.
I hated the way Stonefur died, he didn't deserve that.
And don't even mention Tigerstar's death.
I hated him with everything I had, yet I felt the same sense of morbid grief that Firestar did.
It felt like a whole chapter of the story had left.
The end of Tigerstar's era.
His death was such a shock to me, and I was crying when whitestorm died.
THE BEST Warriors book of them all (and I've read all 3 series).
This book wonderfully brings the first epic Warriors series to a conclusion.
Fireheart receives his nine lives as a leader, which is unbelievably fascinating to read.
I felt like I was there with Fireheart when he received his nine lives and became Firestar.
As Firestar settles into his new role, we draw closer tot he final confrontation between Firestar and Tigerstar.
But that confrontation might be different than you expected.
Whichever Erin wrote this book really knows how to draw you into a scene.
Lo hice! Me armé de valor y terminé esta primera saga. Dios, definitivamente tiene un lugar especial en mi corazón. Es triste pero hermoso. En este último libro el futuro de todos los clanes esta por cambiar y "cuatro se tornará en dos". El ritual del líder es tremendamente emotivo y precioso. Es un libro con mucha acción desde el inicio. Me dejo claro otra vez el magnífico trabajo de investigación de las autoras.
Za klinca ne znam ali ja sam obozavala ceo serijal!Divne divne knjige za sve od 7 do 107!
In the end all 4 Clans had to come together to defeat BloodClan who had declared the forest theirs, not RiverClan and ShadowClan against WindClan and ThunderClan like I'm sure everyone thought it was going to be.This time it was Darkstripe's turn to show where his loyalties lie.
Bluestar's prophecy was clear, I think, and Firestar got it as soon as Tigerstar announced RiverClan and ShadowClan uniting.
Amazing.Whitestorm dying was horrible, and it was even worse because Firestar had mentioned he wouldn't know what to do if he didn't come back from battle.
In this book, humans are called twolegs and cats talk to each other.
It's an interesting subject, because you don't usually see a book with just cats and nothing else that talks.
Tigerstar,(the antagonist) known throughout Thunderclan for his treachary, has become the new leader of shadowclan, and wants to "unite" the forest under his rule.
After a series of battles and other problems, Tigerstar eventually brings in Bloodclan, a band of evil cat that kill Tigerstar and try to take the forest for themselves.
I loved this book.
I recommend it to anyone who loves fantasy, Or cats.
Bluestar has lost her last life whal defending her clan aganst a pack of dogs that were trained by Tigerstar.
Firestar is now the leader of Thunderclan.
Firestar is trying to decide who will be the deputy Of Thunderclan.
Tigerstar combined Shadowclan and Riverclan.
Scourge only had one life because he did not believe in Starclan.
In the book Firestar has to make a hard choice.
He has to chose who he would pick as deputy.
This book is action packed.
It makes this book almost believeable.
I cant read a book when it has not mutch action.
There are no books in the entire Warriors series that I've read that are as good as this one (but they are all still good), and I've read up to series three book five.
I'm sure loads of Warriors fans will agree with me on this.
The best battle descriptions are in this book, with blood flying around everywhere and cats with dog's claws for claws.
Even though Scourge killed Tigerstar, we should all be happy, even if it was horrible imagining a cat dying nine times.
I don't mean to put you off though, anyone who's anyone should read this book!
