https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/573569.Life_Against_Death
Babies experience the world with the same level of intensity, the same level of pleasure and pain, that you, as an adult, experience sex.
Freud didn’t mean that babies are sexual in the same way that adults are sexual, only that any sensual stimulation that was not pain was pleasure, everything from sucking your thumb to taking a good dump.
Baby cooing is cool; but people understand language; whereas they can’t understand babbling.When you suppress your impulses and follow the rules of a sport, you are no longer playing spontaneously.
The sex stuff was more interesting than the death stuff as you might expect, but things pick up again once you get to the poop stuff.
Applying classic psychoanalytic concepts, he argues that forms of social organization can be analyzed as neurotic structures.
In the latter part of the book, Brown argues that the forms of social organization in America (e.g. rationalism, Protestantism and capitalism) can be read as neurotic structures that are particularly anal in character.As much as it deploys psychoanalytic concepts in an analysis of history, Brown's book is also an examination of those concepts.
I read this while in Springfield, Vermont visiting a high school friend, Walt Wallace, and his wife, Karen Engdahl.
The most notable element of this particular visit is that I met for the first time high school boys who wore dresses, a phenomenon I expected to spread throughout the country but which apparently remained confined to that area at around that time.
Brown challenged conventions with his own books.
Like Brown, I favor a shameless, highly libidinous openness of imagination.
Like Brown, apparently at least, I don't practice it at all.
It would be a decade before the world would catch up with Brown's demand for a "resurrection of the body" in 1959, but catch up it did.
Then again, that might've been for the best: since Brown thinks that capitalism is caused by the unconscious (in the most surprising way!), talk of the body should not obscure the fact that this is a form of idealism in the end.
As much fun as Brown's stupefying argument and claims is the taste of the things someone like him thought worth reading then.
I was introduced to Norman O. Brown's ideas thanks to the recommendations of Susan Sontag, and finally got a copy of Life Against Death to see what the big deal was. The answer: 500 pages bogged down in just the worst kind of Freudian analogy-drawing. This isn't to say that it was a waste-- the sections on Swift and Luther are both quite thought-provoking-- but this was something so much a product of the psychoanalysis-dominated, vaguely-but-not-really-Marxist '50s American intellectual scene. Not impressed.
This is a very, very, important book. It is slow going, at least at my i.q. level. (Three digit..)It may seem repetitive. He hammers away at the main points, all of which are abstract and require some grappling, again depending on your grasping level, and to some extent, your prior reading level. There are, I'm sure, intellectuals all over the world today, this post-modern world that is, who are lost in the weeds that Norman O. Brown has sown. Undoubtedly, I am one.
The entire time I read this book, I felt how youthful his writing style was when approaching the monolithic work of Freud.
I kept saying to myself, i should just read Freud instead of this book.
But, now months away from my first reading of this book, I find my thoughts continually return to Brown, and even reading Freud doesnt quite get you to all of the concepts as quickly that are covered in this work.
To me, it would make an excellent beginning book for those who want to get to know more about psychoanalysis, anthropology, and philosophy.
As hardcover Brown falls through the dropbox one does not feel like a lifelong pursuit is being left behind or ought to be recaptured, but that the reason nobody talks about Fraud anymore is because in the rarest of instances the better part of mankind has come to its senses in ceasing to seek sense in come.
Well informed author. Book is rather for die-hard psychoanalysts. You want to know where your anger comes from? ... What is 'Your' shit? ... Read this one!Links psychoanalysis with mysticism.
I can say, without reservation, that this book is truly brooking uncharted territory.The basic theme is this : the human animal, by dint of its deep-rooted guilt, refuses to live for itself and in itself, and continues churning out more and more history ; with which it then proceeds to aggravate further the guilt of the race.
This is not simply a standard Marxist criticism along the lines of 'false consciousness' (though the author has obviously read good ol' Karl), but is rather, a deeper analysis of the hidden existential guilt that runs our lives, that acts as a subterranean spiritual force that drives us to atone for our existence.
A primitive impulse for destruction, decay, and death, manifested by a turning away from pleasure, postulated by Sigmund Freud as coexisting with and opposing the life instinct.
With the instinctual dualism of this sex-death theory, Freud replaced the earlier, more sensible instinctual dualism he had once posed between sex and hunger.
The sex-hunger, (or sex-reality, or species survival-individual survival) split that Freud's early work is based on is to my mind the one that makes sense, rooted as it is in concrete biology, and should never have been abandoned.
I have no idea why this book does not get more play. It is of course a bit dated and perhaps a bit misguided in its move towards 'polymorphous perversity' as the overcoming of repression. That being said I don't read too many books with the same forceful, clear, and original analysis and argumentation. With the resurgence of psychoanalysis in the last decade hopefully this book will be taken up again.
As someone that has not read Freud, it is possible that much of this book is lost on me. But as a non-Freudian, I must say I find many of the ideas described in the book to be quite bizarre. The chapters entitled "The Protestant Era" and "Filthy Lucre", which explore the relationship, from a psychoanalytical standpoint, between Protestantism and Capitalism are quite interesting, though again one has to put one's Freudian goggles on to make any sense of it.
i haven't read this for 35 years or so and can't say anything but generalities: its still the best book i ever read. connects psychoanalysis with mysticism pragmaticism, econiomics, history and marxism. its a wild ride that lets the brain buzz in on parts and sip nectar and at other times just pass through a dense landscape.
If the question "What is the human animal?" is on your mind, read this book! In my opinion, Life Against Death ranks among the most important modern contributions toward an understanding of the human condition. It is on the same short list as Freud's Civilization and Its Discontents and Camus' Myth of Sisyphus. Like these works and indeed the subject, it is not an easy read.
Apparently Martin Luther once warded off the Devil by farting. Just one of the many interesting tidbits in this book. Cites Freud on virtually every page but not afraid to point out the confusions of the "master" (yes he does refer to Freud that way...maybe with some irony).
As good a interpretation/re-imaging of Freud that you'll find. That it suffers from unrealistic, Utopian thoughts is a mark against it, but otherwise, the chapters on art, money, Marx and Martin Luther, do much to advance a science of mankind.
Of definite interest to those concerned with the potential insights provided by exploring the connections between psychoanalysis & historical materialism- norman o. brown was a brilliant academic, but his true genius was his ability to present complex ideas in a truly engaging and exciting way.
What drives us? What do we really want? After a few decades of automatic living, I treasure the address this book provides to these questions. Our anxiety about death and alternatives to that anxiety are considered. It still engages me.Good Read!
wesleyan paperback edition, fourth printing april 1972read for M.Div. graduate studies, jauary 1973
This book redefined the meaning of Freud and human psychology for me.
Eyeopener. Some serious mistakes. Still the thing to read for those who doubt freudian theory. Very useful for literary writers. His "Love's Body" is more a work af art.
One of my favorites
One of the most stimulating, thought provoking, amusing and outrageous explorations and elaborations of the fatally flawed theories of Freud I have ever read.
I dip in and out of this book that a dear old friend gave me some years ago. Insightful, inspiring, and simply dynamic. Like a headlamp to be worn through certain thick fogs.
This is one of the greatest books ever written. I read it every few years. Elemental, spiritual, erudite, humanistic. Superb scholarship.
one of the first non-fiction I ever read it was thoughtful and radical in its day major influence on my thoughts
This was horrible. Too much jargon.
Another gem picked up from the bibliography of the No Dogs group. I could've done without part 4, but the rest of the book is genius.
