https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4831.Shame
After all, one of the most popular myths in world history claims that the transition between animal and human was based on the feeling of shame.Eve - who, as a woman, has to add guilt and shamelessness to her curiosity and subsequent shame - steps out of the boundaries set to her by an omniscient authority, an authoritarian and blindly intolerant government, focused on keeping the status quo rather than on development.
We who have grown up on a diet of honour and shame can still grasp what must seem unthinkable to peoples living in the aftermath of the death of God and of tragedy: that men will sacrifice their dearest love on the implacable altars of their pride.”So what do the characters of Rushdie’s novel do to deal with the inherited shame and shamelessness?
"Shame is like everything else; live with it for long enough and it becomes part of the furniture." —Salman Rushdie (excerpt from the book).Oh, Salman, my beardy bunnykins … gah! You’ve only gone and let me down AGAIN! *sigh*I revere Rushdie. I even proclaimed him to be one of my favourite authors, right here on my profile page, alongside Dickens, Márquez and dear old Dumas. But, alas, here’s another book of his that cannot hope to rival the magnificence of Midnight’s Children. Set in a country
—Salman Rushdie (excerpt from the book).Oh, Salman, my beardy bunnykins … gah!
In fact, for much of my read, I didn’t have a Scooby* what was going on!There are memorable moments, of course there are: the scene in which the three sisters each adopt hear-no-see-no-speak-no-evil-positions on receipt of bad news was pure comedy gold!Salman, I know you’re reading this (he can’t get enough of my stuff), but can you please stop swanning around glitzy cocktail parties and instead write something worthy of your amazing talent?Come on, buddy, make me proud of you again.
I know you’d like that.
The absence of shame or an attempt to seclude one's self from the world and its shame make no difference in the human arena and create the same returning responsibilities to the soul and the world.Rushdie personifies human emotions as physical entities and yet also bridges the parallels into macro-society.
His vending machine metaphor is actually very well developed beyond this short quote and I suggest you look it up - it is about a page and brilliants demonstrates how we take what we can - and let the rest drip into society at large to create the personality of a generation.
261. Shame, Salman RushdieShame is Salman Rushdie's third novel, published in 1983. Like most of Rushdie's work, this book was written in the style of magic realism. It portrays the lives of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto (Iskander Harappa) and General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq (General Raza Hyder) and their relationship. The central theme of the novel is that violence is born out of shame. The concepts of 'shame' and 'shamelessness' are explored through all of the characters, with main focus on Sufiya Zinobia a
Shame, Salman RushdieShame is Salman Rushdie's third novel, published in 1983.
The central theme of the novel is that violence is born out of shame.
The concepts of 'shame' and 'shamelessness' are explored through all of the characters, with main focus on Sufiya Zinobia and Omar Khayyám.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه جولای سال 1983 میلادیعنوان: شرم؛ نویسنده: سلمان رشدی؛ مترجم: مهدی سحابی؛ تهران، نشر تندر؛ 1364؛ در 349 ص؛ موضوع: ادبیات هند قرن 20 مرمان شرم یکی از رمانهای مشهور جهان نوشته سلمان رشدی ست که در دهه ی شصت هجری خورشیدیبا مجوز وزرات ارشاد و فرهنک اسلامی توسط مهدی سحابی ترجمه و چاپ شده است.

Rushdie brings the seven deadly sins to life and then throws fury into the mix, creating quite an exciting narrative!The story begins with three sisters, Chunni, Munnee and Bunny, locked up in their father’s palatial mansion, waiting for daddy dearest to die so they can reap their inheritance.
The sisters longed for a baby and so, as one, they became mother to illegitimate Omar Khayyam.Omar, a slothful and disturbed youth, eventually leaves the compound - and his three strange mothers – to embark on a life of gluttony and sin in the outside world.
“Between shame and shamelessness lies the axis upon which we turn; meteorological conditions at both these poles are of the most extreme, ferocious type. Shamelessness, shame: the roots of violence.” Brilliant. Just brilliant. In this surreal parable, Rushdie makes a compelling case that shame is the perhaps the most important—and overlooked—influence on public and private life. Shame is the “paltry” translation of the Arabic sharam, which protagonist Omar Khayyam Shakil’s three mothers “forbad
As another daughter of a military leader annuls her arranged engagement because she falls in love with another, “all hell broke loose, because love was the last thing anyone had been expecting to foul up the arrangements.”But Rushdie’s creation of Sufiya Zinobia Hyder—who shames her parents because her birth breaks a family tradition of male progeny, after her older brother, the last male of the line, is strangled by his umbilical cords in the womb, whose mental impairment deepens her family’s shame, whose marriage to Omar Kayyam Shakil only confirms her as “the incarnation of shame” as she transforms into the Beast of shame—ultimately confirms his genius in Shame.

The chronicle of the shift in political powers and musings on deeper realms of human mind weaved together by an exotic language yet a quality prose is much appreciated.Authors would like to write a gripping story for masses, you write for your own audience; the ones interested in taking a pause, willing to enter a world of abstraction, introspect and silently thank you later for those moments of felt proximity to lost fragments of consciousness.
The only reason I gave this book a three star rating is because the account of Pakistan politics is a bygone and it is I who cannot relate to it… blame it on my late arrival in this world.
Love, wait, revenge, betrayal, memory, history and the last one, anyone guess ?
Push the right button and a cup plops down under a pissing stream of the fluid.
Shameful things are done: lies, loose living, disrespect for one's elders, failure to love one's national flag, incorrect voting at elections, over-eating, extramarital sex, autobiographical novels, cheating at cards, maltreatment of womenfolk, examination failures, smuggling, throwing one's wicket away at the crucial point of a Test Match: and theyare done shamelessly.
Giving it less than 5 is shame.
Although I always list Rushdie as one of my favorite authors of all time, it had been almost ten years since I picked up one of his books.
So when I came across Shame in 12th Street books, I decided to dive back in.I loved the way that the story kept leaping ahead of itself, rushing ahead like an impatient child to tell you things that wouldn’t happen until much later, and when they did happen how different they were from the expectations that had been seeded.
Σπονδυλωτό.... παραμυθένιο... αιθέριο... σουρεαλιστικό Πρωταγωνιστούν ανόητοι τρελοί....Ουισκομανείς, καταλαβαίνετε.... λάτρεις του ωραίου και του αμαρτωλού, που θέλουν να το τσούζουν κ έτσι είναι έτοιμοι να τα διαλύσουν όλα...Αλλά δεν κατάφερα να μείνω μαζί τους, με τον τρόπο που θα θελα
This book is like middle child in the family which has been underrated and overshadowed by the stardom of its most popular elder sibling Midnight's Children and most controversial younger sibling The Satanic Verses.
Shame flourished following its own shameful/ shameless (?) destiny and stands out by its own merit!Rushdie made a beautiful braid of modern fairy-tale with perfectly interlacing strands of - political history, magical realism and the story itself.
And at the same time, his own intervenings from time to time added essential layers and textures to the story he was building - like the inevitable topping, a master touch.
A wonderful book! I can see why so many people like Salman Rushdie. (I can also see why religious types may become offended.)Mr. Rushdie has a wonderful style. He really makes you feel like you are in Pakistan. That women and men there are really like this. His descriptions of the machinations of government and the women behind the men is absorbing. In many ways, he reminds me of the magical realism of Gabriel Garcia Marquez.Can't wait to read my next Rushdie novel!

Mas é também uma fábula sobre o bem e o mal, um relato da história europeia/oriental ...
Principalmente este romance corresponde a um conto de fadas monstruoso, lembrando-nos de histórias como a " Bela e o monstro" ou " Dr.Jkel e Dr.Hyde".
E a noite, nas jornadas sonâmbulas ela se transforma num verdadeiro animal canibal capaz de destruir todo o que lhe surge a sua frente.E por último temos o relato de um país desconhecido ( que indirectamente sabe-se ser o Paquistão), corrompido por ditadores e o Islão.
Shame is an undesired sperm that impregnates human psychic with acute guilt and discomfort to procreate a shameless fiend amid continual cerebral labor pains.
With Satanic Verses and Midnight’s Children being his two precious manuscripts, Shame lingers on the threshold of allegorical restrains.
This book isn’t awful, if that’s what you are thinking.
I presume I was more than a decade late in reading Rushdie’s Shame.
The book would have appalled my wits then as an adolescent luxuriating in a cushy life.
I am undecided as to award this book with fours stars or three. It's a surreal story with some unforgettable characters. It was surely worth the ride but I must confess that during the first hundred pages I was ready to shamelessly chuck it aside. I am glad I didn't. This is a story that'll stick with me for quite a while. Ok...... 4 stars
The not-quite-any-one-thing nature of the novel is almost representative of Rushdie's own duality, living as a native-born Indian in England.As one might expect, shame is a motif throughout the book.
He refers frequently to the imagined nature of Shame (perhaps to distract from the strains of truth that run deep beneath it?), both detailing the method of his characters' creations and treating them as real people.
It was nice for me to then be able to spy on another (more successful) storyteller's methods, much like Omar with his telescope.All around, I found this book incredibly hard to put down.
The controversy surrounding the reign and relationship of late Prime Minister of Pakistan Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and his Commander-In-Chief at the time, Zia-Ul Haq has captured the imagination of the world for a long long time.
I had heard vague stories about this conflict as a boy but had never really understood what had ensued before and after the successful coup that Zia undertook, overthrowing Bhutto and becoming the President of Pakistan himself.
A move that then heralds the beginning of a Pakistan that is headed by the base mantra of faith as Sufia prepares to finally be taken over by the Beast completely.‘Shame’ documents a lot of facts with Rushdie’s usual tonic of magic realism.
حيث - في القصة الخيالية- تتحول (صفية زنوبيا) الفتاة المتخلفة عقلياً إلى وحش يجز الرؤوس بسبب العار، بينما يسرد الراوي/ المؤلف خبراً عن الأب الباكستاني الذي قتل وحيدته المراهقة في لندن لأنه اكتشف علاقتها الغرامية.
ربما أحسست بالعار نوعاً من التكثيف على حياة شخوص بعينها ونقاط الالتقاء/ الانهزام بينهم، بينما كانت أطفال منتصف الليل أكثر ملاءمة لي لأنها حققت إشباع الحكي والتعمق في تحولات الأجيال المتتالية.لا أنسى أن أوجه الشكر للمترجم، الذي ترجم الروايتين، لأنه وباقتدار نجح في الحفاظ على روحهما، ونقل أعمال رشدي إلى العربية بلغة سلسة ورشيقة، مع التحفظ على بعض الأخطاء البسيطة.
Comparing ”The ground beneath of her feet” and ”Midnight children” one comes to a more beautiful language but less interesting events.در اثار رشدی زبان از زیبایی خارق العاده ای برخوردار است.
واژه هایی که رشدی در زبان انگلیسی ابداع می کند و عمدتن مخلوطی از انگلیسی هندی- بریتانیایی ست، گاه به توجیه صحنه، عمل یا شخصیت در روایت کمک شایانی می کند.
بسیاری از واژه های ابداعی رشدی در انکلیسی بریتانیای امروز به راحتی جا افتاده و معمول شده است.
در "زمین زیر پای او(زن)" آن چنان که در "بچه های نیمه شب" و "شرم" دیده ایم، داستان دیگر به اندازه ی فضا سازی و بیان منظور از اهمیت بالایی برخوردار نیست.
This was Rushdie's third novel which was an interesting story about violence and shame that brought me in contact for the first time with concepts of Sufism and the poetry of Omar Khayyam. It was as always well-written and easy to read and shows Rushdie's powers of narration growing in power and confidence.
Though his form of writing is technically called - Magical Realism.
The way he writes is how ancient history is called as mythology.
He picks up historical situations whether India's partition in 'Midnight's children, Kashmir extremism in 'Shalimar - the Clown, or Pakistan's politics in 'Shame' and the characters turn into mythological creatures walking the earth and changing it with their hidden powers of information, manipulation, wills and whims.
Life goes on as a torturous grind.Shame - is based on political state of Pakistan in 60-70s with Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and Zia-ul-Haq tug of war.
I'd do it a serious injustice if I attempted to write anymore about it, so I'll end with an extract instead:'So-called Islamic 'fundamentalism' does not spring, in Pakistan, from the people.
This is how religion shores up dictators; by encircling them with words of power, words which the people are reluctant to see discredited, disenfranchised, mocked.But the ramming-down-the-throat point stands.
And then the dictator falls, and it is discovered that he has brought God down with him, that the justifying myth of the nation has been unmade.
The third option is the substitution of a new myth for the old one.
However, it is interesting to note that as the book progresses, as the characters become more deranged (and consequently, more fascinating), I began to devour the book instead of checking how close I was to the end of a chapter every few pages.Rushdie's style is sometimes a bit verbose, especially if you're not paying very close attention.
I found that the white panther was very similar, although much better explained, to Paul's 'bad-gunky' in 'Lisey's Story'.
Also, the book deals much with the politics of the middle east, so it would be much better to gain some knowledge on this subject, to give the book more context.
العار هو ما يَصم كل الشخصيات و الأحداث في هذه الرواية ... رواية مستفزة سواء في أحداثها أو تدخلات الراوي و تعليقاته.تحكي القصة عن الباكستان و الشخصية الرئيسية فيها هي شخصية هامشية لا دور لها لشدة سلبيتها و انهزامها و تسلقها إنها شخصية عمر الخيام شاكيل المولود من ثلاثة أمهات و شيطان.تسير الرواية بشيء من التعقيد من المصادفات و من التناص بين الشخصيات و المواقف لكأن كل فعل لا مجال إلا لأن يحصل له رد فعل في الصفحات القادمة و بالتالي يكون محصلة القوى هذه هو الصفر و الرواية كما يُقال تفسر بعضها بعضاً.يُنصح بها بدون تردد
The book is set in a fictional town of Pakistan or ‘Peccavistan’, although Rushdie elucidates that it can be any country because no one is immune to shame, even the ‘shameless’.
The story delineates the inherent vulgarity and brutality which are permeated into the political edifice of the country and how religion is exploited by the despots to suppress the masses, as they dare not defy the “rhetoric of faith, because people respect the language, are reluctant to oppose it.”In the distinct fashion of magical realist context, some characters are bestowed with surreal and fantastical qualities.
yuck. perhaps I'm just not as intelligent as I thought, but, I hated this book. There I said it. And, I'm just going to leave it at that.
Okuduğum diğer Rushdie romanları gibi Binbir Gece Masalları tadında rengarenk bir atlıkarınca, baharat kokuları ve uçuşan şifonlarla dönüyor. Siyasi saptamalar çok keskin, Pakistan'da yasaklandığına şaşmamak lazım. Fakat anlattıkları biraz da burada olanlara mı benziyor, hüzün verici.
