https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/320478.The_Documents_in_the_Case
Sayers, Lord Peter Wimsey’s novels, so was keen to try this stand alone story.
Our story begins in 1928, when a young artist, Harwood Lathom, and an aspiring novelist, John Munting, take the flat upstairs from the Harrisons.
At the beginning of the book, it mainly Agnes voice we hear, as she pours out her interest about the two young men who have moved upstairs and the change it brings into the Harrisons lives.
I found this a very enjoyable mystery and enjoyed Sayers voice and characters, as she deftly unveiled the story.
However, it does have major differences in the fact that it does not contain Lord Peter Wimsey, and is written almost totally in epistolary format.George Harrison, amateur cook who dabbles in the use of unusual material to prepare his dishes, is found dead in “The Shack”, a remote country cottage in the village of Manaton in Devon.
The letters are written by Agatha Milsom (Margaret Harrison’s companion) to her sister; John Munting to his bride-to-be; George Harrison to his son and Margaret Harrison to Harwood Lathom.
Brilliant mystery .Very cleverly done by letters .Was it suicide or was Harrison murdered ?Beautifully written with suspense!
Although Sayers judged the book a flop (interestingly enough), it nevertheless seems to have sold well—my yellowing, 30-year-old paperback had been through 9 printings since 1964, and the original 1930 edition, through 11, apparently.It has the air of a literary experiment: 130 pages of documents, chiefly letters in which characters with various axes to grind, aberrant psychologies to act out, and misdeeds to disguise, offer their own spins on the facts (or alternative facts) of the story.
And it offers little of the wit and lively repartee one expects of the Peter Wimsey crowd, though some characters work very hard at being clever.
Glavna mana ovog romana čak i nije u tome što nema lorda Vimzija (mada bi on svakako popravio stvar) nego prosto u tome što Doroti Sejers nije bila sigurna da li želi da napiše krimi-roman ili društveni roman ili malo da propoveda o bolestima savremenog društva i čovekovom odnosu prema Bogu.
tako.
E da, simpatični likovi su ovde dati baš na kašičicu i nažalost su prilično bledi.
Sayers & Robert EustaceEpistolary novel concerning a possible murder, and the lengths a son goes to, to find out what really happened; slow-moving classic tale, not one of Sayers' best - three-and-one-half stars.Told from a variety of viewpoints via letters and court documents, this is the sad tale of a mis-matched married couple, and the neighbors who turn their lives upside down.
Anyway, various odd things happen in the inter-relationships between Mr. and Mrs. Harrison, the companion, the artist, and the novelist, and later with Mr. Harrison's son Paul, who questions his father's peculiar death.
Having just read a book of letters, these come across as far too verbose and writerly, and the statements filled with asides and inner thoughts just seem unlikely.
However, Sayers has the gift of subtlety and quiet humour that infuse her characters with definite qualities - likeable or unlikeable - and allow us to get really stuck into the story.
It is problematic to me that she wrote this book from an all-male perspective, as I can't tell where the quietly comic digging at the male ego ends and the internalised women-as-subordinate attitude begins.
Or condemning the faithlessness of women?
I'm not sure but it marks a whole other direction that Sayers could have taken in her writing.Made up of 'the documents in the case': primarily letters, reports and a couple of witness statements, there is no overall narrator who pulls the whole story together and yet the reader is intriguingly drawn into not just the murder but the lives, inner and outer, of the characters involved.Very much of its time, this gives an intriguing view of London in the 1930s when artists were still Bohemian and therefore morally suspicious, when the whole-food/healthfood/natural food thing was just absurd and ridiculous, and when there was a huge intellectual ferment over quantum theory/chaos theory and what that means for religion and life.
interesting, unusual entry in the dorothy sayers mystery cannon, one that surprisingly does not feature peter wimsey, harriet vane, or, alas, bunter. basically a series of letters, the mystery unfolds amongst much light satire and amusing character bits. it is intriguing to see how the various letters often contradict one another, rashoman-style.
There is no harm, of course, in her doing needlework and making calendars, if it does not interfere with her duties, but she has frequently been very impertinent when I have had occasion to speak about the unsatisfactory cooking.Lathom has been painting a picture of her - a very clever thing, certainly, but it seems to have turned her head completely."(How clever this portrayal of a character is done within the context of a letter!)Suspense is slowly drawn out as the reader begins to question, along with Mr. Harrison's son, whether murder did in fact occur, and exactly how it could have been possible.
I gave this one 3 stars because Sayers is one of my all-time favorite authors. Honestly, I simply do not know how I feel about this story. There was definitely some drama which kept me turning the pages and it was an interesting premise - a series of letters from different POVs to tell a story. The ending was (to use this word again) interesting.
Wish I'd seen more of Elizabeth, too, as I quite liked her.On a not-entirely-relevant note, I loved the conversation between the scientists and the creationists near the end, where the tangential Hoskyns manages an elegant balance of both:"…all you people talk so cheerfully about Matter, as if you know what it was.
In addition, the actual death and mystery surrounding the death play second fiddle to the real point of the book, which is a discertation on the theories of creation and evolution.
In fact, the discussion soon turns to theorizing on whether science will ever be able to manufacture life or not, and why the various characters feel the way that they do on this subject.
What I did find was interesting, was the fact that they were discussing the pros and cons of cloning life as far back as the 1930s.
I would recommend this book more for people interested in that discussions of creationism vs evolution, and the possibilities of bioengineering, rather than mystery fans.
wow! Not what I expected, but really good. I do understand why some wouldn't like it though. I'm sorry there weren't more of this kind of series
I love "artifact" books like this. My favorite Sayers book so far.
And Margaret Harrison; married to a dismissive controlling prude, giving up all her friends and her work to try and gain his affection.
The 'pregnancy scare' took away any sympathy I had for her, though.Unlikable: George Harrison; pretentious and condescending, he treats his wife like a possession, jealously hiding her away in their flat while bragging her up to everyone else.
Even knowing what was coming, I was a little surprised that he actually worked up the guts to kill Harrison.
The principles involved in this are scientific and, although interesting, are not enough by themselves to carry off the story or prevent an anti-climax.Much of this book is given over to theological discussions, including repeated debates as to the origin of life, the ability to scientifically create life, and thus the meaning of life.
In consequence, the book comes across as Sayers' way of coming to terms with both her (or the prevalent) religious beliefs as well as the proven scientific theories that were beginning to reach the masses around the time this book was written, and rationalizing these ideas into compatibility.Sayers may have hoped to draw readers into a discussion of deeper matters using the mystery novel format as a vehicle, but it ultimately feels like a rip-off, like getting a product in the mail that doesn't match the seller's description.
This stand-alone mystery by Sayers and co-author Robert Eustace has lots of delights.
Neither Peter Wimsey's effervescence nor Harriet Vane's detached strength are in evidence here; these characters are for the most part afflicted rather than rewarded for their intelligence, and even those who don't die in agonized throes of fungus poisoning don't escape the author's lacerating insight.
"Jack" Munting's self-consciousness becomes a bit of a trial as the book progresses, and the philosophical discussions meant to ensure that the solution to the mystery is understood as Deeply Symbolic thump the point home rather too hard, and at rather too much length.
The reader is given insight into their lives through a series of letters though it is revealed at the start of the book that one of the inhabitants is dead.
But he is an expert in such things and would never have picked, cooked and eaten a poisonous variety.The only person who thinks it might have been murder is the dead man's son who has assembled the documents in the case.
This book is something of a curiosity and I think it is a book which grows on you with each re-reading.
It was well enough written, but I felt throughout that Sayers was more interested in the philosophical ideas of one of her narrators, which left the dynamics feeling artificial.
On the other hand, I am very glad I read it; it was clearly inspired by the Thompson/Bywaters case which led to several other books from the period as well, and that has given me some thoughts on what I might want to do in graduate school.
So from that direction, this book deserves 5 stars; I badly needed some clarity.
Dorothy Sayers is a master at creating three dimensional characters that live and breathe.
The book is written in an epistolary format and most incidents come across from two or more points of view, each so consistent and complete by itself that that alone would be reason enough to read this book.
Like all of Dorothy Sayers' novels, this is a book that does not see why it shouldn't be a 'real book' (in Lord Peter Wimsey's words) just because it is a mystery novel.
Yet another book confirming my very high opinion of Dorothy Sayers.
This is her take on an epistolary novel, although it's not composed of letters only.
As the title suggests, the novel consists of a range of documents which together form a prosecution brief.
As is so often the case with Sayers, the mystery is only a part of what the book is about.
While there is a mystery, the point of it is the "how" rather than the "who".
The novel is also a dissertation on creation and the origin of life.
Sayers primarily by providing the cause of death.
This mystery is told in a series of letters, documents, and depositions.
A mushroom expert dies inexplicably of mushroom poisoning, and his son is convinced he was murdered.
Little by little we learn about his superior attitude toward his young wife and the housekeeper's attempts to poison the wife's attitude toward her husband; of the young men renting rooms upstairs and their observations of the married couple; and the immoral attitudes that have led to the man's death.
Slow moving, not as compelling as Sayers' other mysteries.
I particularly enjoyed the way in which the information was presented, particularly as it gave one the opportunity to see the same incident from multiple viewpoints, a thing that I always find fascinating.
I particularly enjoyed the solution, hinging as it did on chemistry (a subject I'm particularly fond of).
Of course, there were very few of the characters that I liked, but it didn't really affect my enjoyment of the book.
I think it's safe to say that the only two characters I did like were the victim and Elizabeth Munting, who spends the vast majority of the novel off-stage.
This is one of Sayers' less-well-known mysteries, and it'll never be as popular as a Lord Peter novel. But it has great charms. Constructed tightly, told (after the model of her favorite Wilkie Collins) by different narrators, and with a keen scientific twist in the center, it is the work of a master.
I was strongly repulsed by this book. I found all the characters to be disgusting, and yet I could see how they might have been made more sympathetic with just a little more effort.If this had truly become Sayers jaundiced view of humanity by this point, I think I can see why she abandoned fiction and turned to theology.
Not as good as the Wimsey books, but still a good read.
I started with Gaudy night, which I later learned was a mistake since it’s the last novel with Lord Peter whimsy and rather more serious than the other books in the series.
As The Document in the Case was a stand-alone book, I thought it would be a good test to experience Sayers’ writing style.
It was an engaging style, especially for the time period.The mystery, however, was lacking!
High marks for the writing, the noble ideas, and the clever presentation of the characters and the plot, but it’s a miss as far as a good old satisfying mystery.
Or, I guess, Kate Klise is a young adult version of this (with more puns and plays on words, of course)Mystery aside (and I solved this one on a hunch about 20 pages in) I most enjoyed the letters John Munting wrote to Elizabeth Drake.
Praise God (or whatever it is) from (if direction exists) whom (if personality exists) all blessings (if that word corresponds to any percept of objective reality) flow (if Heraclitus and Bergson and Einstein are correct in stating that everything is more or less flowing about).""...I am enjoying a magnificent illusion of importance and busy-ness."Late in the book, a charwoman bribing someone else with the existence of written incriminating evidence says, "I was never one for writin' letters myself.
Very peculiar arrangement--I guess she was trying an experiment.
And I guess it worked--it kept me reading, anyway.
But in this book, it's all letters and statements.
Luckily, the statements are written informally, as if a person was talking or copying down his own experiences, rather than speaking to a policeman.
Thatwould have been horrid.Here are some notes I made while reading it:Page 45 and no murder yet.
But I can't stop reading--clearly, something is going down.Over a third through, and still no murder.
The mystery deepens.Page 134 (out of 261) and nothing has happened!
There has to be a murder, doesn't there?
There has to be a murder, doesn't there?
