https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143428.I_Married_Adventure
Osa chronicles her life with her husband to explain how they went from two Midwestern kids to two daring world travelers in the early 20th century who braved cannibals, African chiefs, harsh elements, and every kind of scary animal known to man.
While today's environmentalists and animal right's activists may frown on their tactics or mores, Osa and Martin were quite enlightened for their time and had great pathos for the animals and people they met on their adventures.
Her tone lacks the braggadocio that can be found in other travel narratives; you can envision her eye-rolling every time a man "who knows better" states that she shouldn't go meet the cannibal chief because she's a "woman".
Terrific book! The Johnson's are one of my all time favorite couples!
I read of Osa and Martin Johnson this fall in the KS Dept of Wildlife and Parks magazine.
The adventures this couple undertook would be amazing today, but considering that it was the 1920's and 30's, when women rarely wore pants let alone carry a gun, go on MAJOR adventures (Africa, South Pacific, Borneo), and learn to fly a plane, well, it made it just that much more wonderful.
In the South Pacific, they traveled to and remarked on some of the same places that J.
I'm looking forward to a trip to the Osa & Martin Johnson Museum in Chanute to learn more about these world adventurers.
Intriguing account of a woman who lived life rather differently than most, following her husband around the world as they attempted to film people and wildlife in the remote and inaccessible parts of the world in the early 20th century. Interesting for her un-self-conscious approach to traditional domesticity in the midst of thorough adventure.Although many of their attitudes regarding civilized whites and the savages are cringe-inducing today, she and her husband were filming when most were shooting and in many cases capturing the only recordings of a number of cultures.
Wonderful book. It is an amazing story of travel and exploration in the early 1900s in Africa and the South Pacific before there were tours, drivers and guides. It is also an endearing lovestory of a couple able to follow their passion for travel together. Descriptions of their encounters with head-hunters and "safaris" are truly inspiring. It will make you want to abandon your desk job and go see the world.
This book was one of my mother's favorite books and I really enjoy it for several reasons. Osa Johnson was a woman who was virtually fearless and ahead of her time. She joined her husband on travels through out the world, even to places where people thought women shouldn't go and was an equal partner in their adventures. The language and attitudes, especially toward natives, are dated, but are reflective of the era. This is one of the books that I come back to read over and over.
This is the story of an explorer and his loving, loyal sidekick, his wife Osa. I loved seeing how Osa's plucky bravery and love for her husband kept her by his side as they explored Africa, captured many reels of wild animals and wilder natives, and saved each other's lives numerous times.
All through the book she describes with fascination how her husband handled different situations and accomplished what he set out to do.
Through the book I noticed her starting to trust his decisions more, and even though she still "pouted" when they differed in opinion, she followed him and submitted to him better and better as they had more adventures under their belts.
Their adventures all over the world in the early 1900's are truly remarkable.
I enjoyed Osa's telling very much and although there are many terrible descriptions of the people they meet and hire to work for them based out of sheer ignorance.
The descriptions of where they went, how they prepared, the photos they took were wonderful.
The amount of visual information collected for the world to see was truly astonishing.
All the different peoples they interacted with and experienced their customs: cannibals, head hunters, pygmies, etc.
Anyway an astonishing read!
I requested this book from my University Library after reading about Osa Johnson in "Women Travelers." From the moment I received this first edition, with its zebra-striped bookcloth cover, I was hooked. I had requested Martin and Osa's silent film, "Simba" (1924) through Interlibrary Loan at the same time.Osa's voice throughout the book (the film was obviously silent) was inviting and in no way condescending. I am looking for a first edition of this book to purchase, in case anyone has one they would like to sell.
This book (with the zebra cover) sat on my shelf for years. I think I started to read it once but got bogged down. This time I couldn't put it down. I don't believe people have adventures like this any more. Imagine being chased by cannibals down a mountain, through a jungle and into the ocean. That's what novels are made of, but this actually happened.
I was originally drawn to the zebra stripe cover and exciting title, but the story definatey pulled me in further. Osa Johnson vividly describes the exotic locations and cultures she explored throughout her marriage to Martin Johnson. Wonderful story of Love and Adventure.
Five stars for the past, way past, when I loved this book. Coming back to it as an adult, I saw what I didn't see as a kid. The book is filled with the slaughter of animals.
I first read this book many, many years ago.
It has stayed with me all these years.
It's the memoir of Osa Johnson and the years she spent with her husband Martin from 1910-1937.
They went on expeditions to remote islands and Africa photographing natives and animals.
Theirs were some of the very first pictures people saw of natives and the animals from these regions.
Martin and Osa knew very little about what they needed to survive before going into some of these remote places.
I thoroughly enjoyed this books as much the second time around
As typical for adventure books, I never got really addicted, but I still enjoyed reading it. But it's an easy read.And: It's exactly as travelling: There are adventurous days and less exciting days. The ups and downs of travelling are well described.It was interesting to see, how travelling and camera technology developed over the decades described in the book. And also the intereactions with local people and wildlife at that time seem somewhat different from today.
I first learned of these two adventurers in Disney’s Animal Kingdom Lodge and was taken by their early investigations into uncharted areas. This book fleshes put those adventures in a light and easy way that makes reading it a pleasure.
Great adventure story. So well written.
Osa, his young wife, doesn't realize what she has signed up for at first but is just the type of woman who is up to the challenge, accompanying him on a wide variety of adventures.The Johnson's encounters with cannibals are interesting to read about, and of course my favorite part of the book covers their adventures in Africa.
This particular tale is quite interesting on a number of levels because the Johnson's have no interest in killing animals, have a great respect for the natural world, and want to capture animals in their native environment.
This is a truly amazing memoir/adventure book, and is justifiably considered a classic.
He fooled araound with photography and as a teenager signed on to sail the south Pacific with Jack London.
Together they went back to the south pacific, the New Hebrides, Solomons, Borneo and more.
They also recorded lots of animals and plant life and the book gives a fascinating description of a really primitive world in the 1910’s.
Their movies gained a lot of backers and their expeditions grew larger and more professional.
Although concerned mostly with conservation and movies they did shoot a lot of big game.
In the 1920s and 30s they brought the wilds of Africa, Micronesia and Borneo to the big screen in little towns.
He saved the cash up and took Osa on an adventure to the wilds of Borneo to photograph headhunters and cannibals.
Osa gives thrilling accounts of running through jungle, canoeing in dugouts, hunting in the savannas of Africa, disease, lions, hardship and adventure, all from a small-town girl's view.
Sadly, there is little else positive about Chanute and you will soon want to run to Borneo after a a few hours there,
This is one of those times that I realized that I was unaware of a true story that is a part of history; the story of the lives of Osa and Martin Johnson, film-making adventurers of the early twentieth century.
In 1910, Martin married 16 year old Osa and they spent the next 27 years exploring and filming placesthat few westerners had ever seen: native and animal populations in the South Seas and equatorial Africa.
She lived in the wilds to fully support Martin's dreams of capturing images of natives and wild animals, especially elephants and lions, on film, eventually made into movies.
This book tells the story of Martin and Osa Johnson who traveled the Pacific south seas and Africa trying to photograph and film the lives of native peoples and animals before civilization could alter them.
The stories of their encounters with the headhunters and cannibals in the south seas islands are thrilling and fascinating.
And the safari stories in Africa are interesting with their up close observations of animals and natives.
It was good describing the travel, adventure, animals and natives seen through the eyes of Osa and Martin.
By the end of the book you wish you had known Martin and Osa Johnson.
I must have reviewed this on Amazon.
This was a hard book to locate given it is old.
But they were at the beginning of the great explorers and the beginning of film.
Both have come a long way.
Thank goodness safaris are now with camera, rather than guns.
This book was too long, needed a good editor, and was part of what we call "miracle in publishing".
With some cutting and pasting, splicing and dicing, a bunch of books have come (and film useage too).
On a scale of 5 this book garnered a 1.5 to 3.5 with the bookclub.
I found a first edition of this book in a 25 cent bargain bin at a church bazaar and intrigued by the zebra-striped cover I purchased it.
What a fantastic book, and one in which I read while my husband and I were on our own adventure crossing the country from NY to CA...but oh, Osa's stories of travel in the South Seas and Africa in the early 20th century pale in comparison to any 21st century roadtrip!
I absolutely LOVED this book and rank it up there in my top 20.
Osa Johnson was so much a woman of her time and very well ahead of it.
A real life adventure story of a couple in the 1920s and 1930s. The author, Osa Johnson, describes their travels around the world making documentary films. They did some revolutionary work in aerial filming. Although they came from modest backgrounds they were able to support themselves doing something they loved. Martin Johnson was also a close friend and former shipmate aboard Jack London's sailing yacht, The Snark. An interesting book written in an era when there were still undiscovered parts of the world and when international travel was rare for most people.
Wonderful memoir of adventure! Osa and her husband Martin traveled the world, photographing wildlife and remote tribes in their natural habitat in the 1920s and 1930s. Fearless in their work, they paved the way for later naturalists and other scientists. They were intrepid!In the sense of adventure, it reminded me strongly of another true story I read a few years ago, "Tea for Two," about an English woman who married an Englishman who ran a tea plantation in remote India, complete with pet tigers.
This was the story of the Johnson's life of adventure in the 1910 to 1920. They were quite a couple and their lives as he went into the jungles of the uncivilized world to take picture were quite unique. I enjoyed the book. I never could live that kind of life and I am sure many could not. She turly gave her life to him. Sorry that he was killed in a plane wreck after speaking in the tabernalce to a group of youth. He had a lot of life still to live. Suggested by Weber county Library list.
I first heard about Martin & Osa Johnson while staying at the Animal Kingdom Resort at Disney World. This book was mentioned in the display about the couple. This book by Osa details Martin's early life and their life together. It's an interesting look at history published in the early 1940s about their experiences in the early part of the 1900s. It's an early look at preserving natural history. I found it to be very readable.
Adventure in the early 1900's---much sounds awkward by our knowledge and language use today----but what a time Martin and Osa had.....Martine with Jack London, Osa, marrying this young fellow and off she goes to the South Seas! Reflecting the times, while his main interest was photography, unfortunate casualties included understanding of the people, and the death of poor elephants, rhinos, etc which got in the way.
Thoroughly enjoyed this well written, entertaining and absolutely fascinating auto/biography of Osa and Martin Johnson, written by Osa herself. Wow. First hand harrowing accounts of how the worlds first film footage of african wildlife and indigenous peoples (not to mention south pacific cannibals!!) was laid to celluloid. It's kinda like Discovery Channel meets "Joe Vs. the Volcano" meets Jane Goodall's "Born Free" meets "Ozzy and Harriet".
This was a great clean read. I enjoyed it very much. It has made my need to travel and see the world by working and serving increase in great steps and leaps and bounds. I am not sure if I could live somewhere for four years taking pictures of elephants for that long...but maybe a 6 months! A great read.
