https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/771394.The_House_of_Dolls
For however long you want to speak, I’ll look down at my shoes, shake my head in sadness and try to get a frame of reference to the horror of that event.
I’m starting to wonder what kind of friend you are but you say, “No, just stand here and look into the distance, about 500 yards in that direction.” I can faintly see two figures in the distance: one on their knees before the other, who looks to be raising his/her arm high with can only be a weapon of malice – and before I know it that standing figure has repeatedly raised and lowered that arm until it looks like the person on the ground is finished.
The writing really impressed me.The one thing that disgusts me though, is that, based on my research, this is the book that, by simply its appearance, created the basis for the Stalag genre of Holocaust pornography and extreme literature, mostly created by and read by Israeli citizens.
This genre is a sick deviation on "sexual brutalization by female SS guards, and the prisoners' eventual revenge, which usually consisted of the rape and murder of their tormentors" (Wikipedia).
I can see how this book can spark all of that, but to me it is a genre of literature that must die, even in collector's form, if it only exists for pornographic use.
La prima si svolge nel ghetto e non sono molti i libri che affrontano la mancanza di solidarietà tra gli stessi ebrei e la corruzione dei capi.
Ka-Tzetnik ha il merito di svelare anche l'esistenza delle divisioni della gioia (i campi di prostituzione), generalmente poco presenti nella letteratura (almeno in quella che ho letto fino ad ora).
Ogni singolo personaggio descritto nel libro si stampa nella memoria e scava una nicchia nel petto del lettore: si va dal campo di lavoro con gli scheletri che continuano a scavare ed a spaccare pietre fino alla morte ed oltre, ai campi di prostituzione, fino ai laboratori nei quali sperimentare qualsiasi mostruosità.
Roughly the first half of the book is a simple depiction of trying to get along day to day in the Jewish quarters, told mostly from Daniella's viewpoint.
The book picks up (and becomes the highly-recommended-by-the-underground book it is) when Daniella, not long after Harry, is taken to a concentration camp and ends up working in the House of Dolls, a camp brothel.
Still, it is the literary equivalent of, say, Shoah, the excellent and painful nine and a half hour film that still stands as the be-all and end-all of concentration camp documentaries.
It looks like this book is either out-of-print or people are horrified and don't read it, or on one really knows about this.
I found a copy at the library by chance and this is one of the most graphic and disturbing books I've ever read along with Dave Pelzer's My Story, both which I picked up without a clue of what I'm about to learn.
Probably one of the most disturbing Holocaust books I've read.
It's about a Nazi prostitution camp where young Jewish women were forced into sexual slavery.
It is a story taken from the true diary of a young Jewish girl, called Daniella in the book.
Daniella then faces another form of Hell as a member of the 'Joy Division', a part of the camp where the poor girls were used as prostitutes for the German soldiers.
How can I say it was to unpleasant to read when this was the life of a little girl and six million other human beings.I kept saying to myself "but how could the German soldiers do that"?
I shall be pleased to read something a little lighter for my next book but this one will stay with me forever.
This is simply the most harrowing book I have ever read.
I discovered it in a holiday cottage in Whitby of all places and the memories of reading this book have stayed with me ever since.It charts the experiences of Daniella in both the ghetto and concentration camps and descriptions of some of the events are still burnt in to my brain years later.
Despite my rating I would not recommend this book to anybody.
I feel that you would need to be an emotionally very strong person to cope with this book and it is most defiantly for the faint hearted.
Then you start reading the book proper, you feel nothing but disappoint at the fact that what it really contained fell short of the high expectations of your mind; the irregularities and inconsistencies in the stream of events, the under description of the mental and physical anguish inflicted upon the prisoners, the blurry-ness of certain events, making the reader really ignorant of what really happened in that particular event.
If the book were to be fictional, it would have been a much more appreciable read.
The book really was such a bore and thank goodness it wasn't lengthy.
And thank goodness also that it wasn't fictional.
Remember it was shocking at the time I read it..brought home to re-read. I have the 1961 Panther edition.
Credo non si possa recensire un libro così.Non si dovrebbe nemmeno commentare. L'orrore al quale si assiste non ha eguali.Un romanzo unico su un tema largamente presente in letteratura, ma trattato in maniera sublime, viva e senza possibilità d'appello.
The women described here were all forced to undergo sterilization by various experimental means, all without anesthesia, and there is clear evidence that women were forced into prostitution at a number of concentration camps including Sachenhausen and Ravensbruck, if only to serve men from the labor camps as incentives.One of the characters, who young Danielle forms a connection to when in the ghetto, clearly survived many "aktions" due to her "entertainment" of those high-up in the Juden-rat or Jewish police who ran the ghettos quite brutally for the Germans.
The power of this book comes from the way it captures the feeling of utter helplessness in the Jewish ghettos and labor camps under Nazi rule.
The story is that of a brother and sister, stripped their homes, freedom, and family, who refuse to surrender their humanity.
In a way, it's a story in total opposition to The Diary of Anne Frank which highlights the remarkable way in a which a young girl is able to still be a young girl despite the horrible conditions of her life.
As the hardships in this story mount, that hopeful spirit within Daniella is gradually crushed until she is like the others, simply a walking skeleton.
An obscure yet graphic and haunting account of a fourteen year-old Polish Jewish girl who is imprisoned within the “Joy Division” (inspiring the band of the same name) camps – forcing Jewish women into sexual slavery for Nazi officers. Surreal and visceral, Ka-Tzetnik’s novel is not intended as Nazi exploitation, but as an examination of human depravity and suffering that is definitely not for the faint-hearted.
I feel a bit strange rating a book that is actually based on fact , so instead I'll just say it was an enlightening read for me - as someone who has read a lot of Holocaust history I was shocked I had never heard of these Joy Divisions before . The last few chapters were a bit difficult to follow but I honestly think this book should replace Night by Elie Wiesel on most school book lists .
Quite possibly gonna be one of the most depressing books I've ever read, but I think it is important to do that sometimes.Reading it because it was the inspiration for Joy Division's name, and one of their songs has quotes from it
Oh dear. The average review for this was five stars before I stuck me oar in. It's the book that supposedly inspired Joy Division's name. I really wanted to like it, but the writing style was just turgid. The cover was very nice though.
Heartbreaking.
"The gate slammed shut behind them"By sally tarbox on 27 December 2017Format: Kindle EditionVery harrowing Holocaust novel, following young Polish Jew Daniela, as she's seized by the Nazis while on a school trip.From slave labour in a ghetto, 'processing' the vast quantities of clothes brought in from their victims, Daniela finds herself on a transport to a labour camp...
I can definitely say it's neither, but a generally well-written account which brings a terrible event horribly to life.This section describes her work in the rag factory:"A letter drops from almost every pocket today.
Quella di Daniella, una ragazzina ebrea che, dal ghetto di una città polacca occupata dai nazisti viene trasportata prima in un campo di concentramento e poi in una casa di piacere per le SS, la Divisione della Gioia, in cui sarà costretta a vendere il suo corpo per sopravvivere.
O meglio, tentare di sopravvivere, poichè le umiliazioni fisiche e morali cui viene sottoposta non sono meno aghiaccianti di quelle riservate ai prigionieri di un campo di concentramento e, come in un campo di concentramento, anche lì la morte è dietro l'angolo, pronta ad arraffare le sue vittime.
libro molto intenso, crudele, che racconta la cattiveria, il modo in cui neanche molti anni fa moltissime persone hanno dovuto vivere. un libro he vá letto per capire come alla crudeltà non c'è mai fine. come nella vita quando si ha tutto ci si lamenta, senza pensare che nella vita ci sono persone a cui hanno tolto perfino l'identità.
bizar...
This one was simply heartbreaking. It's hard to believe this actually happened.
Read about 25 years ago - never had heard of this part of the Holocaust.
Horrific story... read it and weep.
It was ok. Started well, but the end just seemed to be a lot of incoherent rambling.
Второй роман Ка-Цетника — чтение занимательное и вполне мучительное, это правда, хотя все это не настолько болезненно, как выглядит в пересказе читателей.
Ка-Цетник тем самым вошел (довольно рано в истории ХХ века) в эту странную плеяду авторов, кто врал о войне и Холокосте из, видимо, лучших побуждений: Ежи Косинский, Анна Франк (не сама, конечно, а ее папа), Миша Дефонсека и пр.
И в этом, насколько я понимаю, одна из проблем восприятия этого (и прочих) текста.И, конечно, автор этим своим видением никак не вписывается в санкционированную и санированную псевдоисторическую реальность.
В общем, мне понятно, почему мало кто стремится переиздавать романы Ка-Цетника: слишком уж неприятная это для системы тема и угол зрения на нее.
I first heard about this book many years ago from the band Joy Division.
It's a hard book to track down especially when I first heard about the book, now this is available for free online.
The book is very slow in the beginning and focuses on a brother (Harry) and sister (Daniella) and their life in the Ghetto then at concentration camps, mainly in the German Doll House, under a Joy Division.
I was hoping for more about the situations in their life in the Joy Division but it is a short book.
I think it's worth reading for this second half, but as an overall book, it isn't always consistently written, and the stream-of-consciousness aspect, while it works in certain parts very well, sometimes weighs the story down in others and makes it frustratingly repetitive right when it gets to a really interesting point.
This probably was part of the reason for my frustration with the story, as that is why I became interested in reading it in the first place; so, be aware of that if you have the same perspective.)
Перевел, подчеркну, для самиздата, потому что ни шанса опубликовать это в советской печати у него не было.
И однако тот текст, что вроде был опубликован потом уже в Израиле и распространился в сети из некой «Библиотеки Даниэля Амарилиса» (вроде был такой книголюб в Тель-Авиве, который опять же из лучших побуждений пиратски — я подозреваю — публиковал какие-то тексты на русском языке; точнее выяснить мне пока ничего не удалось, поэтому буду благодарен за поправки)… так вот, этот текст сокращен практически на четверть, если не на треть, и весь натурализм из него исправно вычеркнут.
Это не тот роман, который написал Ка-Цетник.
I read all of Ka-Tzetnik books when I was a child.
After surviving the holocaust Ka-Tzetnik has dedicated the rest of his life for writing authentic stories about his experiences in the concentration death camps.
In this story, which many believe is the evidence of his sister; Jewish women were exploited sexually by the Nazis.
But the message, like in his other books was that survival is better than death, because life is precious.
Ka-Tzetnik is a powerful voice that stands for the love of humanity.
It is not a pleasant read, but it is powerful, heartbreaking, terrifying and veracious.
