https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/167913.The_Roman_Revolution
Syme's The Roman Revolution is absolutely first rate interpretive history: exhaustive in its detail, but in the best of ways, particularly in that the learned and opinionated author serves as the filter through which all of the surviving histories of the Latin and Greek primary sources from antiquity are combed and then combined—in beautifully composed, dynamic language timbered with a very Tacitean cynicism, pessimism and severity—to present his encompassing theme: that the turn from what he calls a Free State to Monarchic Despotism was the trade-off between liberty and stability that the Republic demanded, based upon its structural inability to adequately handle the vast geographical expansion of the final century BC and the scheming, avaricious, and increasingly unruly political factionalism that growth engendered; was, in fact, a purposive Revolutionary movement that found its origin in populist and plebeian conflict with the oligarchic and conservative alliance of patrician families and equestrian financiers; novi homines vs.
Written back in 1939, Ronald Syme’s book details Rome’s transition from republic to empire between 60 b.c. and 14 a.d. The book has been enormously influential and controversial since its release 73 years ago, and is probably the most famous book of Roman history this side of Edward Gibbon.
Syme is interested in the detailed mechanics of the transition from republic to empire and the political machine that allowed it to happen.
So. If you already know your Roman history, and are looking for an in-depth examination of how the mechanics of power were used to effect the switch from republic to empire, this book is for you.
Syme provides readers with a total immersion into the familial and factional maneuvering of the transition from republic to principate.
The rest of the book chronicles the consolidation of power around Augustus' new ruling faction, and the gradual decline of the old aristocrats, which left the field to a new Augustan aristocracy.
Throughout the book, Syme meticulously describes the allegiances and fortunes of the great families, patrician and plebeian, and how they made their way during the revolutionary period.
The ruling classes died off in civil wars and proscriptions, to be replaced by a de novo ruling class which, in the incipient empire, could not continue to hold prominence in the Senate, the courts, or the battlefield.
All these honours belonged now to the princeps and his increasingly professionalized corps of civil servants.Continuously in print, this remains an important contribution to our understanding of the fall of the Republic.
It is, at times, turgidly dense, as Syme walks through the tangled family connections of the period.
But his thoughts on the changing social structure of the time, the uses of propaganda, and the theory of government are vivid and insightful.
When Syme finally says "The revolution is over" (on page 451) you let out a sigh of relief too.
Names pass by in a bewildering array, none of whom are explained, as if you are in the center of Rome around the time of Julius Caesar gathering bits of information, none of which makes any sense.
Hobsbawm, together with the liberal bourgeois historians of the 19th century, ask if history had finally slipped away from humanity during the crisis of the French Revolution.
Rome may have been heading in this direction anyway but it didn't feel that way at the time.
Full review to come, but quick thought. Syme has me convinced that Octavian/Caesar/Augustus should be considered one of the most successful revolutionary leaders of all time, which has me thinking: perhaps the true mark of success for a revolutionary leader is that future generations no longer consider them truly revolutionary? Before I follow that logic to picturing George Will in a beret and Castro beard, I'll leave. Hopefully, more to come...
Syme, like Tacitus views it all backwards, as does the present era in appropriating his narrative.
The problem is that the very real issues at the heart of the Republic's fall: income disparity, monopolies, exploitative labor practices, militarism, oligarchical power, deliberate moves to limit the franchise, and moneyed interests are accepted as proper and beyond control at least until one man either says differently (the Gracchi), or appropriates them himself (Augustus).
Accordingly for all its very real brilliance this book does not provide a truly accurate history of the Republic's fall and it does not adequately answer the important "how," or "why."
Alors Syme demontre que le jeune Octave (plus tard Auguste) a vite raile la faction des homines novi apres l'assassinat de Jules Cesar qui a mis leur hegemonie en peril.Le message du professeur Boake etait qui la politique en Italie se faisait comme ca partout en Italie depuis les debuts de la Republique Romaine jusqu'a la triomphe de Risorgimento en 1871.
Apres 1871, on voyait ces pratiques chez les familes mafiosi de Sicile, de New York et de Chicago.La these de Syme semble bien tenir la route et est peut conteste depuis 1939 l'annee de lancement de "Roman Revolution".Attention ce Roman Revolution est tout a fait incomprehensible pour ceux qui ne possedent pas une bonne connaissance de l'historie de l'epoque.
I had thought from the introduction and the book's reputation that Syme's bias against Augustus would be much clearer and really detract from the book, but I didn't actually think it a major problem (maybe it's only because I've read worse in my really ill-conceived research project on Elagabalus.) In the chapters dealing with the Principate, Syme does get noticeably overly speculative about Augustus' motives but, imo, that isn't the interesting part of the book anyway - there are definitely more indepth studies of Augustan propaganda (Syme relies totally on texts so he limits himself).
"The" classic work on the Late Republic (before Gruen, which is largely in response to this book), Syme envisions the first century BC Roman world as a crumbling Republic inhabited by squabbling cliques of aristocrats and over-mighty generals. He classifies the shift between the true "Republic" before Sulla and the institution of the Principate in 27 BC as a true 'Revolution.' I love Syme, and I love his ideas, even if I don't entirely agree with his admittedly extremist arguement...
Classic history of the rise of Augustus. Ruthless revolutionary changes Rome forever.
Too verbose
best book i've ever read
Muazzam bir çalışma. Ronald Syme zamanında Türkiye'de, İstanbul Üniversitesi, Klasik Filoloji'de de bulunmuş bir otoritedir.
Syme is in complete control of his subject matter and this is not a book intended for the novice Roman history student.
In a little over 500 pages, Syme gives us a multi-faceted look at the end of the Republic and the gradual evolution of the Principate.
Unfortunately, the specfics of the later chapters, dealing with certain aspects of the Principate and Rome under Augustus, tend to become overbearing and it really takes a lot of concentration to push through.
In terms of a general approach to the end of the Republic, Syme triumphs, keeping rival factions and families divorced and hiding some of the clutter that enters his later chapters.
Octavius was named in Caesar's will as his adopted son and heir, then known as Octavianus (Anglicized as Octavian).
Act I, Octavian, Mark Antony, and Marcus Lepidus formed the Second Triumvirate to defeat the assassins of Caesar.
It makes me realize this book needs some maps for the years of conflict about the Mediterranean.Following their victory at the Battle of Philippi, the Triumvirate divided the Roman Republic among themselves and ruled as military dictators.
Lepidus was driven into exile and stripped of his position, and Antony committed suicide following his defeat at the Battle of Actium by Octavian in 31 BC.
Syme's meticulous and exhaustive account of how Rome transitioned from enfeebled republic to shaky principate is regarded by many as the definitive treatment of the topic.
As Syme notes, this is a history that pierces through the self-justifying, hagiographical veil that accrues around the person of Augustus.
For the general reader, it is recommended that one dip into the volume sparingly.
Whenever Syme indulges in his signature technique of prosopography (tracing family and personal connections) the general reader can safely move on.
Dejo constancia de esta lectura - academia, completar - de un excelente historiador y mejor escritor.
La revolución romana es, probablemente, el texto mejor trabado de la historiografía inglesa sobre la caída de Roma y el tránsito espurio de la República al Imperio.
Como todo historiador que aborda asuntos de la antigüedad, Syme tiene alguna que otra simpatía: concibe a César como un melancólico sin salida, y a Cicerón como una suerte de vanidoso y engreído senador.El dibujo espléndido del triunviro, los partidos cesarianos y la dinámica compleja del imperio antes de hacerse efectivo es una razón de sobra para leerlo.
“Heaven and the verdict of history conspire to load the scales against the vanquished. Brutus and Cassius lie damned to this day by the futility of their noble deed and by the failure of their armies at Philippi; and the memory of Antonius is overwhelmed by the oratory of Cicero, by fraud and fiction, and by the catastrophe at Actium. ... The tragedies of history do not arise from the conflict of conventional right and wrong. They are more august and more complex. Caesar and Brutus each had right on his side.”
Tough as Tacitus. And as brilliant. First published in 1939, The Roman Revolution could be history as augury: beware the rise of the ruthless, unaccountable despot able to seize total power under a veil of 'making the res publica great again', and through the serial failure of dysfunctional and partisan structures of government. Should currently be on every politician's bedside table.
Excellent in some parts, very dull in others, but overall a great history. The period from Julius Caesar's death to the Battle of Actium is enthralling. The endless lists of nobile families...less so. It's not quite as accessible as it is made out to be, especially with the untranslated Latin sections (very annoying), but most is not hard to follow.
El gran Syme nos dejo un gran libro, refleja perfectamente los últimos momentos de la República, la ascencion de Octavio y el destino de la Oligarquía romana, este libro es posible que lo relea a finales de año... buenísimo!!
The primary thesis of the author is that Octavianus and Augustus were the same person, that there was not a miraculous transformation where the brutal Octavianus became the statesmanlike Augustus, and we should not forget the military despotism, proscriptions, and destruction of what remained of the Roman Republic by Octavianus just because Augustus won the civil wars so decisively that they ceased for 100 years.It's in the details as well as the thesis that this particular history excels.
We can see their destruction in the civil wars, and the effect that had on the acquiescence of the remaining nobilēs to Augustus's system.
How did the inexorable clash happen?
Between the Socialists and the Nazi or centuries before, within the ranks of the triumvirate( the diumvirate)?
How was the reputation of Socialists tarred?
What happened afterwards?
If you are already overwhelmed by the daunting proportions of this exercise, frustrated by its complexities and like me, are inclined to ridicule any effort at taming this beast of a topic as being unworthy, incommensurate with its dimensions, welcome to an experience that is the Roman Revolution.
Historians call this a Tacitean effort; for lesser mortals like me, an astonishment.
Some of Syme's conclusions were extremely controversial for years, but a great many historians now agree that his approach of looking at the events of 60 BCE - 14 CE as being greatly influenced, if not precipitated, by the histories and interactions of Rome's leading families is vital to understanding this crucial period in Western history.
His work is as important today as it was in 1937, and is an essential read for anyone interested in Roman history in particular, and Western history in general.
This book is old school (originally written in 1939) and the author assumes that the reader already possesses a thorough grounding in Late Republican Roman history.
It was very beneficial to come to an understanding of the major Latinate terms of the Roman world (e.g. auctoritas, tribunica potestas, pax, virtus, libertas, dignitas, magnitudo animlii) and what they meant to the people who spoke them.
It is characteristic of Syme and the traditional scholastic model, however, that he does not feel the need to translate or expand the terms.
The old style is certainly very different from what is written today.
I learnt a great deal about the formation, decline, and conflicts of the Late Republican and Augustan aristocracies.
Not a book for the Roman history novice.
An extraordinarily dextrous weaving together of primary accounts, interpreted by Syme to ferret out the tendency of some Romans to glorify their leaders.
In some ways riveting action with famous stories the assassination of Caesar, a less than simmering Anthony and Cleopatra, but still suicide by snake.
I'm reading the story of Octavian (Augustus) and cannot help but think of the ways in which Trump is revolutionizing the Republican Party.
Syme himself revolutionized our understanding of this period of Roman history.
He does quite a good job of rehabilitating Anthony and explaining how his posthumous reputation as a decadent has-been at the mercy of an Oriental queen was the result of a merciless propaganda effort.This is also very much a history of the aristocratic families who controlled Rome at the end of the Republic.
All of them seem fairly unpleasant and in a different context Marcus Aurelius’ later word of thanks to his tutor Fronto is especially apt:“For showing me the particular ruthlessness and ambition of those coming from seemingly good families.”

This is a long, sweeping narrative of the Revolution(s) under Caesar & Augustus.
It was revolutionary for its emphasis on prosopography, the investigation into the elite families around the dynasts and the assumption that Augustus was a dictatorial a-hole.
Syme presumes that the late Republic was already an oligarchy, that the heyday of Republican values had already ended, that Augustus ruled by means of oligarchy (as an autocrat can only act like an autocrat if people LET him do it) and that Augustus was a wicked jerk of a ruler(tyrant, murderer etc).It's a good read if you've got time, but this is probably all you need to know about the book unless you're investigating the rise of the Empire.
