https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6186357-the-maze-runner
The pacing is strange, and Dashner's use of cliches became very irritating.The main character, Thomas, was annoying.
I realize that this is a plot-driven story and not a character-driven one, but I would hope that the characters would at least be appealing to the reader.Criticism aside, I found the book enjoyable, and the plot kept me hooked.
Ultimately, it's unfortunate that Dashner's poor writing takes away from a good story line; in the hands of a writing master, I believe that The Maze Runner could have been something extraordinary.2.5/5EDIT: More than a year later, I have not procured any other books in the series, nor do I intend to.

Let's just say one untrustworthy soul is unwittingly tossed into the Maze at night and then a girl (not a boy!!!!!!!!) suspiciously arrives the day after Thomas.
Just keeping the haters at bay.)Then Thomas (view spoiler)[spends a night in (hide spoiler)] the Maze.And the book falls apart.
It just creates a frustrating deus ex machina that could have been avoided, but isn't.As Thomas's character stumbles upon more and more unbelievable clues, like (view spoiler)[the moving walls of the maze actually form patterns of letters (that Thomas will eventually and conveniently know what to do with after experiencing the Changing himself), (hide spoiler)] the book loses its momentum significantly.
Did those experiences involve multiple conversations like this:“What is the maze?”“Stop asking so many questions!”I have to say that this book was more boring than having someone tell you in painful detail about winning a video game or finishing a crossword puzzle.
Okay, I just googled that and apparently Dashner “purposely” named a few characters after scientists who will supposedly exist in the future.
Like the only Asian kid in the book.
Zart and the Asian kid were not named after scientists.
At first I thought the kids were in some kind of dome, but then it seemed like it was just a really tall wall.
“You are the shuckiest shuck faced shuck in the world!”  2 1/2 stars. It's funny how just a few years can change everything - your reading tastes, your expectations, your standards... because when I read The Maze Runner in early 2011, I enjoyed it a lot. It seemed fast-paced, exciting and a little scary. Plus, I thought the slang was a nice touch. Three years and a million dystopian/sci-fi books later and everything about me has outgrown this book. It's not terrible. I can still see why someon
because when I read The Maze Runner in early 2011, I enjoyed it a lot.
I can still see why someone who is new to YA dystopias might get caught up in the loosely-plotted (read: nothing happens) drama and think that "shuck" amounts to a clever invention of a new language.
The whole book is built around a single mystery - that of the maze - and our supposedly intelligent-beyond-belief characters keep the novel going by standing around and scratching their heads.
Comparisons to The Hunger Games are frankly quite hilarious when you consider Collins' intricate world, complex characters and clever plot...
Okay so before I start I want to say something.I personally hesitated to read this book because I heard too many bad reviews and things about this book.But let me tell you something.Yeah it has it's problems like the written style but this book has one of the best story plots I have ever read about.And believe,once you get into the book,you will not care about the writing or anything else.I am seriously so angry I haven't read this book early and even more for listening or reading those really
Okay so before I start I want to say something.I personally hesitated to read this book because I heard too many bad reviews and things about this book.But let me tell you something.Yeah it has it's problems like the written style but this book has one of the best story plots I have ever read about.And believe,once you get into the book,you will not care about the writing or anything else.I am seriously so angry I haven't read this book early and even more for listening or reading those really bad reviews for this book.I know everyone has their own taste but really I heard things that really discouraged me to read this and they are not true.And one last thing before I continue with my review,this book is awesome without having instalove,or love at all,without having nakedness or anything like that.So if you find this interesting,pick it up and decide for yourself,because for me is totally worth it!
To Summarize: Wellllll...that was convenient...Thomas wakes up in the middle of a glen in the center a enormous maze.
The day after Thomas arrives, a girl (Theresa) comes for the first time ever.
Thomas and Theresa know each other, but they don't remember how or why.
Anyway, the gladers, Thomas and Theresa spend their time mapping the maze, surviving the wilds and....not much else.
I suppose they invent their own slang, which gets a bit annoying after the first twenty pages.
That being said...Like most memory-absent books, there's a bit of an issue with the longer it goes on, the less believable it became.
Of course I was very intrigued and immediately wanted to read the books before I watched the second movie.
;-P) So you can already guess what I did, I watched the second movie before reading the book and then desperately tried to catch up with this series.
I was warned that the movies differ from the books so I’m really curious how the rest of this series is going to play out.
=)___________________________________PRE-REVIEW:This has to be the first series I never actually read but watched at the movies instead.
;-PCan’t wait to read about “Wicked”, Thomas, Newt and Minho.
The last page is turned and all I have to say is this:  What for the love of all that's good and pure was this foolishness? ...Aaaaand ..... rant!-----When I'm sick - the snotty phlegmy febrile kind of sick - and my brain feels sizzlingly fried, I sometimes turn to easy reading "fluff" to give my neurons a break. Sometimes this strategy backfires and the 'fluffy' book actually tries to break my long-suffering brain cells with its sheer stupidity.It's not even mediocre; mediocrity would be elevat
------Let me sum up the things that I thought were awful, stupid or just plain ridiculous (apparently my febrile brain likes making lists):# The dumbed-down plot full of holes that relies on pointless withholding of any useful information.
- that does not really affect Thomas the Special Snowflake, not even a minor inconvenience.# The pointless vilifying of perfectly reasonable characters for the sole purpose of making our special protagonist even more snowflake-ish.
No, the characters do not work hard just to get the pay-off; they get told all that's happening, like a cheap trick.# The absolute lack of any suspense or motivation to help propel the plot forward.
Reading this book + No sleep= brain shock . Oh more like my brain was blown into freaking little bits. I kept thinking about it after I was done. I finished it into the late hours of the night and I kept circling in my head what was going to happen next. The point is moot but I am definitely going to read the sequel The Scorch Trials.From the start as the reader we have NO idea what is happening. All Thomas can remember is his name. Not where he came from or any specific details of his life. Ne
Strange things start to happen, and people are pointing fingers at Thomas.
Nobody wants to answer Thomas's questions, and I got just as frustrated as he did.
The world building is good because I got the creeps just thinking about the grievers, and I can feel the desperation but at the same time the camaraderie the guys have with each other.
I really want to see what Dashner has up his sleeve this time.I read this because of the good reception it was getting, but also because of a display at Barnes & Nobles.
EDIT 09/05/2013 Holy crap, that looks perfect.--I am way better at writing reviews for books I hated, but I’m gonna give it a go anyway.--Okay. Breathe, Inge, breathe. Oh, this is gooooood.The Maze Runner was like a breath of fresh air to me. I needed a nice, clean cut from the typical YA books filled with whiny protagonists, insta-love and love triangles, and I got exactly what I asked for. This book is like a giant puzzle that you solve along with the characters. It is filled with unexpected t
I needed a nice, clean cut from the typical YA books filled with whiny protagonists, insta-love and love triangles, and I got exactly what I asked for.
It started off highly confusing, but soon took a turn for the exciting and left me hanging with so many unanswered questions; after the last page, I was still begging for more.
The Maze Runner had me gripping my seat until the very end.
I knew it wouldn’t be a happy ending because it’s a trilogy, but I didn’t really know what to expect.
I definitely didn’t expect this.

I was a little bit scared when I started this book that I wasn't going to like it as it is my first real dystopia/sci-fi book I've read.
After about 110 pages it got to the point where I couldn't put it down for anything even while eating dinner I had it one hand and when bedtime came I wanted to stay up all night and read it.The plot was fast paced, suspenseful and full of suprises.
The twists and turns this book took shocked me unlike any other book I've read.
All I have to say is read this book (especially you, Morgan :D).
Dashner mastered the art of dolling out need to know information in spades while maintaining an air of mystery that keeps you immersed in the story, craving for more.The Maze Runner begins with Thomas finding himself memory-less, surrounded by teenage boys of varying ages, in a strange place called the Glade.
There even appears to be order within the Glade, though it is filled with nothing but testosterone fueled teenage boys.
Though the rules are rather self-explanatory, their necessity becomes all to clear once Thomas is allowed to know what lurks behind the stone walls protecting the Glade.
A premise full of promise, but after 150 pages, how can there still be no answers?
The fact that Thomas does not demand more answers from his fellow captives makes it difficult to sympathize with or care what happens to him.
The spoilers for the book make it sound intriguing, but I can't wade through another 200 pages before it gets to the point.
They're not fully fleshed out or unique in any way, and for a book that's centered around characters in a bleak environment in a desperate situation, this is a most unfortunate weakness.
Thomas comes to the maze in a box, he has no memories of anything other than his name. He learns that he is the "GreenBean" or the newest boy to arrive. They get arrivals once a month. There's a ton of questions about how he got there and why there is a maze that has walls that move every night.Then there are the Grievers. Which for the life of me I could not find scary. A machine-like slug? Pour some salt on that fucker.The next day a girl arrives. It throws the boys into an uproar. A GIRL! an
Thomas comes to the maze in a box, he has no memories of anything other than his name.
He learns that he is the "GreenBean" or the newest boy to arrive.
Pour some salt on that fucker.The next day a girl arrives.
and never before has a newbie came through the box the day after another one.
No complete answers are ever given in this book.
So a sum up of the whole book could be this very gif:
Probably not, it's not the worst book ever but I hate not having answers so I'll just get pissed off if I continue.
“How could anyone be evil enough to do this to us?” Just as awesome the second time round!Thomas wakes up in the Glade with no memory of who he is or his past.
They all keep the Glade running, they grow food, raise livestock and perhaps the most important job - the runners.
The runners go out everyday exploring the giant maze surrounding the Glade, attempting to find an escape.
I also really liked the ‘glader slang’ the characters used, I thought it was imaginative and at times pretty funny!
The Maze Runner is a masterfully plotted mystery.
It draws you in quick and then reveals details at just the right time to keep you turning the pages for more.While many criticize the characters for being flat, which they are, Thomas and his fellow Maze Runners are at the very least likable.
I think James Dashner really squeezed the best possible plot he could out of the characters he created.The real pitfall of The Maze Runner is the writing.
As Dashner might write, It's really, really bad.
I on the other hand read a whole ass sad book.
The 'sadness', funnily enough, was the result of watching The Death Cure a thousand times and not getting over you-know-what.You guys were right though.
It was wayy different than the movie (not that I'm complaining or anything I love the movie) Gally's character, the whole maze and everything was much more explicit.I love Newt so much man.
He's like 99 percent of the reason I started reading this series I'm not even kidding.
Newt is one of the best, most understanding character ever and no one can tell me otherwise.
Sin duda la idea del laberinto no es nada original, pero sí el claro que hay en medio y la trama que se desarrolla en él.
Me gustó mucho la idea general y todo el desarrollo que hay en la novela.Los personajes también me encantaron.
Parece jugar un papel demasiado importante casi al final y siendo, según la trama, un personaje clave debería haber tenido una mayor profundidad y en sí desarrollo, porque es planísimo.El corredor del laberinto es una novela ya muy famosa y de la que queda poco por decir, quien no la conozca es porque vive debajo de una piedra.
I loved it so much!This book instantly sucked me in, when I really just got it off my shelf to look at it!
Haha, I had always been a bit hesitant to read this book, because I didn't think I'd like it much...
(Makes me so excited for book 2, because I don't know what's gonna happen)Reading this made me feel like it was Christmas morning, all jittery and happy.
Which I think is fair to say I'm pretty obsessed with it!I'm SO happy that I loved this book the way I did, because it's been soo long since I've completely and utterly enjoyed a book!
Lots of teenage boys die, and the reason just isn't compelling enough to justify it.
(view spoiler)[The world is going to pot and some people think if they put a bunch of kids through a do-or-die trial where most of them will die, they'll get some tougher, smarter kids who will - somehow - lead them out of some unspecified global catastrophe?
(hide spoiler)]And maybe that's partly because...4.
Maybe I'd read them if someone put them in front of my face, but I'm not even sure about that.I gave the book to my older teenage son.
Okay, first second of all, my friend recommended this book.
So THEN my dad says, at dinner:"Oh, Ellie, by the way--I borrowed that book of yours, Runner?
;D And even if there IS in the second one, it won't matter, because this was his comment to me a week or so later:"Oh, Ellie, I finished The Maze Runner, by the way." (He says "by the way" a lot.)"Oh?
Seeing my dad reading fantasy was just too weird.On another note, I liked it.
And the fact that my friend, who read it first, claimed Minho.
The characters in this film are trapped in a kind of maze, and must pass from one cube-shaped room to another.
Machine-animal hybrids often appear within genres such as science fantasy, steampunk, and the post-apocalyptic young adult adventure novel.
Some readers felt frustration or anger at the end of The Maze Runner – too many questions left unanswered, too abrupt of a cliffhanger.
The characters in The Maze Runner use the idea of Vendetta to fight back, to inspire themselves, to fling themselves into the unknown.
The characters wait for answers that never appear.
It was a great concept, and the story was compelling, the characters and plot twists interesting, and there was no limit to Dashner’s creativity.
My big problem was that the characters were manipulated by the story, and not the other way around.
There were so many times when the characters would have figured things out.
The only reason the characters don’t figure things out is because the author doesn’t want them to.
I think Dashner should have trusted his characters a little more, and let the story flow from them, rather than letting them be constrained by the plot he wanted to maintain.
See the chapter x chapter breakdown on my blogAs if the simplistic and "tell-y" writing in this book weren't bad enough, we also have to content with some truly atrocious pacing, inconsistent characterization, logic gaps out the wazoo, a Gary Stu of a main character, and an ending that kicks this book up into whole new levels of WTFery.The majority of this book is people jealously withholding information that gets revealed a few chapters later, which makes it painfully obvious that all the not-telling going on is just for the sake of dragging things out.
The rest of the cast had to be dumbed down to some truly paint-eating levels in order to make him look good, but the book went ahead and did that.
آن‌ها سرانجام مجبور می‌شوند، راهی برای خلاص شدن از آن مکان، پیدا کنند، اما با راهی مارپیچ، و تودرتو، روبرو می‌شوند؛ که اطراف آن را دیوارهای عظیمی در بر گرفته است، و در ورودی آن هر چند وقت یکبار باز می‌شود.
Fair warning!Review: I read this at the encouragement of one of my kids, who dearly loves this book.
The (view spoiler)[memory-wipe trick (hide spoiler)] that provides so much of the impetus for the plot could have been carefully employed to maneuver the reader's thoughts and emotions into place for a brilliant ending.
Rather than allowing Thomas to love deeply and passionately, which would have endeared readers to him (and others), the (view spoiler)[memory trick (hide spoiler)] got in the way of us getting to know and love him, flattening him out as a character.
It's been a while though, and I picked it up at a time where I was excited for it which turned out for the best.I was first stricken with how fascinating the whole world concept for this books is: it's very reminiscent of The Lord of the Flies in that you have a bunch of kids desperate for life but not knowing what to do.
I really appreciate when an author ties of a book well, especially when it's part of a series: I don't want to be left completely hanging having no closure at the end of a book.
Okay so I saw the movie when it came to dvd and I loved it, but here is the faces I got when I said I hadn't read the book yet ↓I know right?
I will say I watched the second movie and didn't like it but I'm going to keep on with the books and see.
But Thomas keeps getting vague thoughts and memories of people places and things.
At one point they bumped Thomas up as a runner because he saved some peeps and stuff.
Either way this book and movie was so amazing.
