https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101942.The_Tripods_Trilogy
The two wait for Fritz, but he does not appear, and in the end the coming winter forces them to return to the White Mountains without him.The Pool of FireWill returns to the headquarters of the Resistance after several months in the City of Gold and Lead, where he and Fritz (who has escaped the city some time after Will and found his way back to the Resistance) travel to Eastern Europe, the Caucasus region, and the Middle East and set up resistance cells with young boys who question the power of the Tripods.
I absolutely love this trilogy.
I discovered it via the BBC Television adaptation of 1984/5.
Unlike the TV series (which I do like very much), the story rattles along at a pace.
The idea of people being Capped so as not to question the status quo has always resonated with me.
The Tripod city in the books is a much harsher place than the one depicted on screen.
For a children's trilogy, the issues concerning one's freedom to think and speak are handled in a mature way.
It is not without reason that the Tripods trilogy is described as "almost unbearably exciting".
These books were one of the few that got me to really start reading on my own as a child. I don't know how accurate this rating would be today, though, since I haven't read them in 12 or 13 years. :)
A very intriguing and enjoyable read.My favorite character was by far Beanpole. He invents glasses, thinks up steam power, fights tripods with hand grenades, and creates a hot-air balloon. He also demonstrates a lot of character (as well as brains) in the end.I loved the clincher in the end, that makes you wonder whether the tripods had the right idea in wiping out humans. Can peace and liberty ever go together?
I'm not actually sure if I read the entire trilogy, or just one or two books, but whichever way, they were memorable and wonderful and stand out as one of the most amazing children's sci-fi books I read.
Read these as a teenager and loved them. Read them again about ten years ago, and loved them still!
In my youth, I read quickly and for plot, only passively processing the subtext, character development or themes that lit up my brain’s analytical pleasure centers.
I usually forgot the plot just as quickly.
But some specific scenes from these books have stuck with me, even though I couldn’t keep them in context.So, I just re-read this series and found myself pleasantly engaged by more than just nostalgia.
Despite the simplicity of themes, i enjoyed the nuance of supporting characters even when their backgrounds weren’t fully fleshed.
Solid trilogy. Good read for the younglings
Quaint. 3.5 stars
Even the curious Beanpole shows little curiosity about how 'ancient' peoples actually lived--he's more concerned about technical developments.VOLUME II: CITY OF GOLD AND LEADThe small colony of bandits hidden in the 'White Mountains' (from context, probably the Alps) decide to try to infiltrate one of the cities from which the Tripods emerge (there are, it turns out, only three on all the Earth).
For that matter, there must be planets that could more easily be made habitable than by means of taking over an already inhabited planet.Note that, having taken over the cities (and murdered all their inhabitants, except for one enslaved captive), the first thing the humans should have done is raided the ARCHIVES of the aliens, and then destroyed the cities entirely.
Fast read. Interesting concept of alien subjecation of human race that's been going on by mind control for 100 years. Written for Junior reader set but fast read for adults. Bittersweet ending. I read the prequel first. Recommend you do that to appreciate the background of aliens' snobbery. Flawed main character rushes into things/ makes mistakes. (beating of human slaves, those whose minds are broken, some stealing food, runaways, bombs, tearing of people seen from far away, not too graphic) 11 and up
I remember reading this book when I was 10 or 11 and I absolutely loved it. I read 3 of them in one week or even less. Even though that it's a really old book and not many people around my age know about this I still recommend all the teenagers to read this book at least once, and believe me, you can't put it down when you start the book. wish I could explain why I liked it or give more description but I can't remember anything about it except the joy that I had while reading the book.
I read the tripod trilogy when I was in grade school, and I was amazed (it is meant for young adults). I reread this trilogy earlier this year, at a much older age, as well as the prequel which I never knew existed because it was written later, and even as an adult I loved it.
A great, timeless dystopian novel that I recommend to everyone. Personally, I found it to read more like a synopsis than a novel, but I still loved it nonetheless. I recommend it to all YA enthusiasts who are tired of the mainstream.
Read this as a kid. Great stuff for younger readers.
Honestly I’m shook about how great of this book was just read it
It was an okay book.
good
I read these in junior high, went back to reading them as an adult and am happy to report they were as good as I remembered.
The books are set in a society brutalized from modern civilization back into a more rural, beaten-down state by alien invaders who travel in vast machines known as Tripods (three legs and all that).
The alien machines control humanity by grafting mind-control "caps" to everyone's skull when they turn thirteen (it's tough being a teenager in this series).
The contrast between the trodden-down, farming-style humans and the futuristic machines is great, and Mr. Christopher is great at conveying the terror and horror of mind control, and being subjugated by a superior force.
Christopher is a giant in the world of classic YA sci-fi.
I was forced to read this in middle school in "Reading" class.
I hated having to read this book and many other books required of me through middle and high school.
When I was given at least multiple choice of books to read for class assignments, I had much more peace and joy, and was exposed to such treasures as 1984, Brave New World, To Kill a Mockingbird, and Of Mice and Men. When forced, I learned to hate The Tripods, Heart of Darkness, The Invisible Man.Perhaps I may/must reread The Tripods Trilogy, to see how much was the book itself and how much was the horrible circumstances.
Hat sich die Fernsehserie in der ersten Hälfte der ersten Staffel noch ziemlich an die Romanvorlage gehalten so wich sie in der zweiten Hälfte der ersten Staffel schon sehr ab.
Die zweite Staffel war dann von der Romanvorlage so weit weg, dass man schon fast fragen muss, ob es überhaupt, ausser der Grundstory aus Staffel 1 was gemein hat.
Band 3 und Band 0 wurden ja nie verfilmt.zu den Büchern: sie waren durchweg gut geschrieben und die Story in sich schlüssig.
John Christopherin 1960-luvulla kirjoittama scifi-romaani on jännittävä kuvaus tulevaisuuden maapallosta, jolle saapuneet vieraat valloittajat ovat taannuttaneet yhteiskunnan keskiaikaisiin oloihin ja ottaneet käyttöön "kapituksen", kaikille varhaisnuorille tehtävän operaation, jossa päähän asetettava metalliverkko tekee ikantajastaan lammasmaisesti isäntiään tottelevan orjan. Se on kuitenkin vasta alkua, ja jotain kauheampaa on vielä luvassa...Vapaiden ihmisten vastarintaliike on kuitenkin olemassa, ja tripodeja vastaan suunnattuun taisteluun tempaistaan myös 13-vuotias englantilaispoika Will ystävineen.Nuorille suunnatusta kirjasta nauttii myös varttuneempikin lukija. Christopherin päähenkilöt ovat heikkouksineen ja puutteineen mielenkiintoisia (joskin ehkä vähän yksiulotteisia) hahmoja, eikä kirjan maailmakaan ole aivan mustavalkoinen paikka, hallitsivatpa sitä sitten ihmiset tai tripodit.
I was excited to find the title of these books, I remember reading them when I was 13 or so.
I really great dystopian use fiction which probably didn’t receive notoriety due to it being a little ahead of its time with in that genre.
In other words pre-hunger games.The author isn’t afraid to keep mystery going until later on in the series, but I remember it also being satisfactory in the storytelling along the way.
That scene is probably what reminded me to google and goodreads search for the title in the first place.I hope I can talk my teenagers into reading it, it’s great.
One day in my middle school library, I very vividly recall picking up what turned out to be the second book of this trilogy, The City of Gold and Lead.
So, the Tripods trilogy has a special place in my heart as the books that turned me into the reader I am today.
I hope everyone here has such a book or story to tell relating to how they became a dedicated and enthusiastic reader.
I liked the strip so much, I read the books (and reread them in 2005 on a lark).
A boy who is about to be "capped" a process that signifies adulthood, finds out that the capping process is a way for the Tripods to control humans, and runs away.
The trilogy is about the boy's journey to the "resistance" and what happens over the three stories is an uplifting story of courage and resilience.
A great book for those that like Harry Potter books, but prefer science fiction to magic/fantasy (although there isn't much science other than the actual tripods).
Think War of the Worlds as a Harry Potter book.
It's 2089 A.D but the world resembles the distant past as it's people are stripped of technology, knowledge and free will due to the mysterious occupying alien tripods.
The youthful protagonists journey to join a growing resistance movement in the 'White Mountains', escaping ritual capping which renders people docile and enslaved.
The story of the escape to the mountains and later infiltration of the tripod city is intimate and thrilling.
But the trilogy as a whole is hugely satisfying and it's vision of humanity stripped bare is dark and compelling, like the authors brilliant apocalyptic novel "the death of grass".
Trilogia oli kaiken kaikkiaan mukavasti etenevä nuortensarja. Oli siinä sellaista viisikkomaista ruoka-aina-mielessä keskustelua ja välillä oli hiukan yksioikoisia ratkaisujakin, mutta jos pikkuseikkojen ei anna häiritä niin kirja soveltuu hyvin myös aikuisen luettavaksi. Kirja on enemmänkin poikien seikkailukirja, naispuoleisia hahmoja ei esiintynyt kuin pikaisesti sivujuonissa. Ensimmäinen osa tempaisi hyvin mukaansa hyvällä ideallaan ja toisessa osassakin oli mielenkiintoista seurata Mestareiden elämää. Viimeinen osa oli heikoin ja loppuratkaisu naiivi (siitä olisi voinut jättää pois ainakin turhan politikoinnin).
I'd never read this but seen some of the TV series when I was a kid.
Picked up a nice boxed copy second hand and thought I'd give it a go.
Well-rendered aliens, fast-paced, convincing and exciting and bracingly bleak in places - Jack Vance meets Cormac McCarthy, but a little let down by hasty plotting and lurches in the story, not to mention the lack of any strong roles for female characters - in fact there seem to be no women at all in the resistance movement.
I recommend it though as the writing is powerful and some scenes will stay long in the memory.
Ja heti alkuun disclaimer: Ei tämä ole viiden tähden kirja. Ehkä kolme ja puoli tai neljä tähteä, mutta kun tätä lukiessa on pakko pelata nostalgiakortti pöytään, niin yhdessä sen maailman pelastamisen, dystopian ja sopivan karmivien ja humanististerroristisien maailmanvalloittajien kanssa, meillä on koossa voittava yhdistelmä nuortenkirjallisuutta. Ja kun aikakin on ollut poikkeuksellisen lempeä tälle scifi-kuvaukselle on vanha setä myyty. Tämä oli niitä kirjoja, jotka tekivät minusta scifi-fanin!
