https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/618794.The_Score
When Parker first hears about the plan to loot all of Copper Canyon, he thinks it’s insane.
I loved the plotting and preparations for this job, and the complications thrown at Parker in this one are surprising.This book also introduced another thief, Grofield, who would star in several other Stark novels.
Where Parker is the emotionless professional, Grofield is a chatty actor who funds his career with his robberies.
They're kind of dumb and pointless and obvious, but the fact of the matter is that at the end of the two hours you've somehow sat on your ass and watched the whole damn thing, so it must have been successful in some important sense.
The dashboard lights were green, and there was a small red dot of light, like a ruby, on the radio.I don't know about you, but I am kind of disappointed that Stark didn't tell us whether the upholstery was contrast stitched or whether the heater vents were set to floor or bi-level.
would you believe I still kind of enjoyed the book?
stark works off a familiar template and it's great: he usually begins with the second act, as the action is already moving along, and then explains all we really need to know from the first act along the way.
now i believe the score to be, on one level, a perfect little crime book.
but it definitely feels a part of something larger: as if this individual book is just one chapter in 'the life of parker' -- analogous to, say, updike's rabbit stories in which the individual novels might deserve 3 or 4 stars, but taken as a whole, it's an undeniable fiver.
That's one reason to read this, that this is just a carefully crafted story of how this could work, very lean and straightforward, with a mean, tough, unsentimental guy, Parker, at the helm.From a writer's perspective, it is hard to sell a book where a guy just hates small talk.
Most characters are less polished than Parker, less disciplined, so they are mostly variously colorful"characters," but he does trust the steady and no-nosense Handy McKay. With Handy out of the picture for this book--he's retired, maybe--Stark introduces actor Alan Grofield, who quotes Shakespeare (on the job!
Author Richard Stark had a real knack for conceiving really original plots for his various heist novels.
As I've mentioned in other reviews, these books are so simple and although there's not really a whole to talk about, so far they've been consistently enjoyable for what they are.
The omniscient POV style that is a trademark to the Parker novels works damn well here as the heist reaches its crescendo.
If you're looking for a quick, dependable read, so far you can't go wrong with these Parker books, and The Score is a great example!
An amateur named Edgars hires Parker, Grofield, and ten others to help him with an outlandish plan: to rob an entire North Dakota town!
Things go smoothly until it turns out Edgars has ideas of his own...After reading five of the Parker novels, I figured out why love them so much.
It's two aspects: Parker's superb ability to plan heists and trying to figure out how the inevitable double cross is going to go when it happens.
Even though you know Edgars is going to be a problem, you have no idea how big of a problem he'll be until the big reveal.Yet another home run from Richard Stark and Parker.
And in that case I like the reading of this book as an analogy to Wall Street fucking over Main Street (to borrow simple minded contemporary slogans), or as a no less criminal or unethical version of a Wall Street's Gordan Gecko dismantling of large groups of peoples lives in order to feed his greed (which is always good, but in Parker's world Gecko-ian greed would probably led to the early death of the man whose eyes are bigger than his stomach).
But, I think Stark might have been using this book to populate Parker's criminal world with some names and faces that he will be able to use in future books, sort of like he did in some of the side stories of The Outfit.
An amateur gets in touch with Parker, who is getting antsy from inactivity and a dwindling bank account.
Eventually, he is convinced that a small town in North Dakota, Copper Canyon, can be robbed, even though it is accessible by only one highway, and is completely isolated with a state police station just outside of town.
Lots of targets for a big payday: a mine payroll, two banks and several stores with large daily receipts, a small cadre of defenders, few conduits with the outside world, and a enforced nighttime curfew.
Great planning until the amateur's agenda is revealed and all hell breaks loose.
So, Parker...you knew better than to get involved in this cluster......errr, flop. We all hope you learned from this experience that when your instincts tell you to pass a job by, pass it by.Lots of action in this somewhat convoluted overly complicated heist...and Parker knew it was too complicated. he almost walked away, and I'll bet by the time it was over he was wishing he had.Okay so I like the series it's good full of action...and makes me feel a little creepy about liking them. I mean Parker is a pretty nasty customer. Still the books are good reads.Enjoy.
I think I've hit my limit of Parker books for now. The formula was a bit too predictable, although this was his most ambitious job yet. Unfortunately, I guessed most of the high points pretty much from the beginning. Still, the details were fun to follow & Parker is a wonderful anti-hero. While I have #6, I'm missing the odd numbers after that through #12. I'll see if I can't get them for another Parker marathon at another time.
60th book read in 2018.Number 63 out of 720 on my all time book list.A surprise. Great characters. Can be read as a stand alone.
Here Stark fails to do that, so ends with a damp squib rather than more explosions.I read a remark the other day about the existential nature of the Parker books, and there is a definite lack of a God, be it either the religious kind or the omnipotent god of crime fiction who generally makes sure that the rules of basic morality are upheld and bad people get their comeuppance.
It’s a town that should have its own Jessica Fletcher, the kind of city David Lynch would love.
Good semi-noir entry, with Parker pulled into a heist unlike any he's been involved with before - an entire town ripe for the plucking.
This is my favorite Parker yet. We get a sliver of insight into Parker's character and a very exciting heist story.
Parker, bored with hanging around at the beach, decides to check out  another larcenous job opportunity, but there's something hinky about the guy organizing the whole thing.
Salsa, whom I last saw in The Outfit (and for some reason I imagine as looking like Henry Silva) is in on this job.
There was a moment when I thought Parker was getting a little soft, but later learned that he was just being practical.
If one is going to hit a mid-life crisis one could certainly do worse than a Parker novel.
Parker is lollygagging in Miami in-between jobs when he gets a tip on a big score.
The job is loaded with red flags, but the take is too tempting; rob an entire town in North Dakota.
The changing narrative let's us get into other character's heads, and although this book doesn't really advance Parker as a character, I feel like I know him a little better.
That's actually an interesting aspect of this story, as Parker is not the lead, but simply part of the cast.
The Score doesn't pack the punch of the first three books but I like where things are headed.
This best comparison for this book is Ocean's Eleven, if it were more hardboiled than flashy and the goal was to steal an entire town instead of a casino. Yes, you read that right, an entire town -- not the town's bank, jewelry store, or mining payroll, but all of them simultaneously. What could possibly go wrong?This is the first Parker book I have read -- in fact, it is the first I have read by author Richard Stark/Donald Westlake. I enjoyed reading about Parker and would definitely read another of his heist adventures.
I've been a long fan of Richard Stark's (aka Donald Westlake) hardboiled Parker the thief series. THE SCORE is set in a boxed-in Western town where Parker and a large gang hit several banks and the mine's payroll at once. A clever twist is dropped into the last part. Parker is like Mr. Spock, all business and no time for humor or fools. One of the gang members, Alan Grofield, appears later in LEMONS NEVER LIE published by Hard Case Crime.
Basically it’s about Parker and a crew of some known and unknown variables robbing an entire town.
If you’re not interested in this book just from reading that sentence, there’s nothing I can say to get your attention.
These books are short as hell so it’s really hard to get bored, and Parker is of of course one of the all-time tough guys, a dude for whom it’s a routine workday when he kills some guy by socking him in the throat.
It’s only made a mildly-perturbing workday when he finds out that said guy was an associate of one of his new coworkers.
As I've stated before, these Parker books fucking rule. Of the ones I've yet read, this one may rule hardest.
I’m intrigued with Parker, and that keeps me reading.Edgars has an idea for stealing from several businesses at the same time in a North Dakota town.
He partners with different guys for different jobs in each book.If you are new to the series, I suggest reading the first three and then choose among the rest.
The rest can be read as stand alones.The first three books in order:								4 stars.
The Outfit.Read these two in order:5 stars.
Butcher’s Moon (Bk #16)Read these four in order:4 ½ stars.
Firebreak (Bk #20)(not read) Nobody Runs Forever (Bk #22)2 ½ stars.
Did anybody write better heist novels than Stark (Westlake)?
Seriously, though, it's hard to top these Parker novels for their depiction of heists.
In the previous Parker novels he'd been trying to clear himself from the Outfit or dispensing with unfinished business.
The first half of the book is all setup: describing the job, finding the crew, procuring the guns and the vehicles.
Expect some monkey wrenches, but this one is all about the crew pulling off the take down of the town.Grofield makes his appearance in this novel, so that is kind of cool, as he will get his own four book series later: The Damsel, The Dame, The Blackbird, and Lemons Never Lie.
This Parker gets five stars because of the description of the methodical techniques described in pulling off the perfect score. Like with other Parker novels he is almost thwarted by those unknown variables that seem to crop up in the execution of any job. But Parker is the consummate professional at his craft, which is always a pleasure to read about.
A fantastic read. The heist is absoloutely outrageous. The pacing and action are beautifully judged. The plan is masterful, and the inevitable double cross is diabolical. Turns out there was a French New Wave movie made of this one, would love to see it but doesn't look like it's been released on any format, so not much chance.Highly recommended for fans of hardboiled caper fiction.
"Shut up, Grofield."
I fall asleep listening to my favorite Parker novels. Just saying.
Odlična knjiga,topla preporuka.
A tad too much.Unlike the first four novels, this one had an overly complicated set-up and plot in which Parker and a ton of other criminals are robbing an entire town. The profusion of characters made this short story more difficult to follow than was necessary, and there was an obvious conclusion/twist that you could see coming from the opening chapters. Tight, well written, but ultimately too much happening for a 200 page novel.
Another fantastic Parker job. Not as enthusiastic about this one, it seemed like Stark was trying to do too much with such a short format, but at the end of the day a lot of fun was had and a good score was made.
Simply couldn't put it down. A fantastic read. Parker stays the king
