https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109881.Billy_And_Blaze
Such a wonderful story. I don't know how many times I read it as a child. I loved finding it.
Sweeeeeeet sweet books written in the 1930's about a boy and his beloved horse. Kinley read this as an "early reader", but it would also be nice as a bedtime book. It's longer than most picture books.
Billy and Blaze books are perfect for horse crazy children. The reading level is 1st-3rd grade and both my 1st grader and ESL 12-year-old find these a fast read with enough vocabulary to make it a good learning tool. The illustrations are beautiful and the books get a little harder and longer as the series goes on. Theses are quite old, but perfect little gems for newly independent readers. So glad to run into them at the library.
None of my three kids are huge horse lovers, though my daughter comes the closest.
I started reading these books to her at about 4 but now at 5 she is enjoying them a bit more.
We both liked this first story about Billy and his love of horses and how he came to get his own pony Blaze as well as a dog and how he won the pony show!
A horse loving kid will enjoy the pictures a lot!
Any of the books can be read alone....it does not follow a strict story format though you will see where some characters are introduced and re-used throughout the series.
I had this book when I was a kid - I found it at the library today and signed it out so I could read it to ZZ - she liked it and thought it was interesting that "way back when my mom was a kid" the book pictures were black and white!It is a trip reading books like this to her now that I'm an adult. As I read, I remembered a lot of the illustrations...I hope by reading books to ZZ now, she will be able to have similar memories as an adult.
This book is on the Nebraska 150 Books list, which is the only reason I picked it up. I'm glad I did though--I like to give books as gifts, and if I ever have the chance to recommend or give a gift to a young boy who loves animals, this moves to the top of the list. It's a sweet story about a boy, his pony, and his dog, with what resembles pencil-drawn illustrations. Enjoyable.
These are nice, sweet books and all my children enjoy them. It is interesting to see how independent children were in the past. Billy is responsible for his pony, he rides him in a show and he does this all without the help of his parents. My children were impressed.
Great book for young boys. The whole boy-pony-dog relationship in a time when land was open and adventure was awaiting in your backyard. Oh, yes and all before rules were so restrictive that a person cold still prove themselves without strict authoritative approval.
I had a card to the Osterville Public Library and every summer for years I'd read dozens and dozens of books- many of them time and time again! These Blaze books were just some of the many... Nancy Drew, The Hardy Boys, The Black Stallion series, The Secret Garden and The Little Princess!
My 6 year-old enjoyed reading this book from cover to cover. He was able to pronounce most of the words. The intricate drawings inspired imagination and encouraged a quest for details. What a great story and series to illustrate courage, bravery, and the love of a boy for his remarkable pony.
It's a nice change to read a kids book from the 1930's compared to all the Dora and My Little Pony books that go through my house. The girls loved it too! So sweet, we'll be reading the whole series.
I have to read these books again. They go back, far back, to my early childhood. I don't remember much, but I remember falling in love with Blaze. Yes, I was one of those girls who really want a pony. I still do.
I loved these stories as a kid so I bought a whole set of them for my kids.
I read this to my younger brother when he was little, and the art by this author, C.W. Anderson, who illustrated his own books, really inspired me to draw horses.
This is one of those books that I read and re-read in public school. A classic in its own right.
Love this books series. It's a sweet story about a boy and the adventures he has with his pony Blaze. I was addicted to these books when I was little and I think they need to be republished.
Billy And Blaze: A Boy And His Pony by C.W. Anderson.This is the first book in a series. A great story and boy and his horse ride off into the woods on adventures.
I liked that Billy got what he really wanted and he got to ride his horse a lot. It was good that he jumped over fences. I want to read the rest of the Billy and Blaze books.
I think this book is awesomely cool and my mommy had black and white books.
This is one of the earliest reading memories from my childhood.
I remember checking this out at the library as a child. This brings back great memories!
This is the first of the books CW Anderson wrote about Billy and Blaze. It's a keeper!
An oldie but a goodie. Elf is flying through this series and enjoying it immensely.
I used to be obsessed with these when I was little.
Do you have any of those kids who like books where nothing really happens?
(Do those kids still exist?) This is the book for them!
A little boy easily gets the pony he's always wanted, the pony is amazing, they find a dog stuck in a trap who is sad but very quickly saved by our hero, and then they are all best friends.
Billy enters a horse competition and it's so funny that even the dog jumps in it.
Billy and his horse win, of course.
No doubt that he will save the dog.
No doubt he will win the competition.
It would be worth grabbing this book just for the amazing black and white drawings, but add in the fun story children will love and this book is one you have to pick up. Kids get to read the story of Billy, a young boy who loves horses, especially his friend Blaze.
I loved the Billy and Blaze books as a kid. There were several of them, and I read every one in the library. The stories were fairly wholesome, as I recall. What I remember most of all was the illustrations. They were excellent: really, really beautiful drawings. Top quality.
Book Challenge book for Second Grade language arts. Very sweet story that introduces the main two characters of this series. There are lovely black and white drawings throughout. I think my daughter will really enjoy this series.
A childhood favorite.
Beautiful illustrations accompany this delightful story of one boy, his pony, and their adventures together.
