https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/270435.Heal_Your_Body
In dealing with chronic pain a friend referred this book to me as an alternative to the traditional medicine that wasn't as effective as necessary.
It's just a short book which lists different diseases and physical ailments and what are perceived as the psychological reasonings behind those pains.
Now, where Louise Hay and I part ways in this thinking is with her remedy - affirmations.
I realize that there's logic behind this concept but my mind just doesn't play along.
If conventional medicine isn't working for you or you just dislike the traditional remedies to headaches and such, this book is worth a peek.
What can I say about a book written by a woman who states that babies are born with birth defects because they CHOOSE to be born that way?? Nothing good! At all! Shame on you Louise Hay!
This book is my health bible - dare to tell me you have an ailment and I will be flicking through the pages to tell you what the emotional cause could be. Battered and bruised I carry it with me always. It helps you understand the emotional roots for ill-health and support the idea that we really can heal ourselves more often than we think
I’m hoping that the addition of alternative medicine literature such as this booklet (and of course, personal experience and observation) to the scientific study reports, patient records and medical textbooks I read will give me this full picture.
Later on in the text, she states that “[t]he mental thought patterns that cause the most dis-ease in the body are criticism, anger, resentment, and guilt".
I understand that positive thinking can go a long way in improving your general health, but please don't insinuate that it can fully cure slipped discs, cystic fibrosis, AIDS...if positive thinking and chanting, "THIS MOMENT IS FILLED WITH JOY. I NOW CHOOSE TO EXPERIENCE THE SWEETNESS OF TODAY" would cure my Diabetes Mellitus, trust me--I would've been able to toss my needles and meters a long time ago!
Louis L. Hay presents a useful and seemingly accurate perspective on why our bodies may express discomfort. I highly recommend this book to anyone that is in need of healing. This book encourages us to use the power of our minds to influence our healing processes. Heal Your Body can help you gain insight into your purpose, the obstacles you face, and sheds light onto those things that can be difficult to face. Using this clear and easy to use "manual" can help bring not only healing, but joy and peace to one's life.
Wow. I've known about affirmations and that they work for promoting behavioral changes since I was very young.
I can remember doing affirmations when I was in middle school (I was born in 1967).
I can't remember having actively used them in the past 15 years.
I know this for certain, it will not hurt or make things worse.So many of the connections she makes between "mental causes" and "physical illness" have rung true for me (in conditions I once suffered from but are not presently experiencing as well as with conditions I am currently experiencing).
There's no better time than the present.
This book gives the positive waves to our body... "YOU ARE WHO YOU THINK YOU ARE" is the basic of this book. Its about how we can mentally heal our physical body "metaphysical". It gives a detailed healing method for every pain and suffer u have in ur body and mind, with no medicines or treatments but by Your Thoughts. I think its very useful to have it in our hands. Physical pain goes or not, am sure... if we follow, we feel Positive.
Well, if you know me, you know I am into ways of natural healing and all that hippie crap. So, Bev gave me this book and I really did love it. Even though it is more like a guide than a book, I really learned a lot from it. Saying the affirmations in it really have helped me with my anxiety.
Louise Hay offers an explanation for illness that is different from the medical perspective and takes into account the whole person. She is a ground-breaking author and spiritual teacher with a wealth of wisdom to offer.
Un librito cortito, que se lee en una hora, aunque estate preparado para no sentirte hipocondriac@. Muy ciertas las razones de los malestares, en muchos estaba consciente de que así eran. Recomendable para aquellos que quieran cambiar sus vidas.
I was referred to this book by a famous hypnotist named Steven Parkfield.
This book is a companion book to heal your life, which is by the same author.
This book is amazing, and may sound somewhat OUT THERE at first, just start examining others around you who suffer from problems, you will then start to see how right this book is.
I was a cigarette smoker for awhile, and after reading this book I quit.
Now, this had nothing to do with "reading" the book, but everything to do with implementing the lifestyle into my own.
BOOK HIGHLY SUGGESTED!!!
it was interesting to say the least, but not my cup if tea. well i do agree with some things she says, but not with everything else. i.e. about eye sight in regards to near sightedness? i've had bad eye sight since i was a child. as a child not even 10, i was not afraid of the future? the future was allicould think about andhow exiting it would be growing up. and i accepted guidence and i knew i was safe...well... i guess its each to their own.
Potentially very dangerous book that tells people you can cure very real and very dangerous illnesses (such as cancer) by ... forgiving people? No thanks ...Anyone who is ill should stay away from this book ...
Opened my eyes to how our emotions truly affect our physical. Very insightful. I loved it.
The amazing Louise Hay 💖💖💖 I am grateful always. Good Book.
It’s the metaphysical healing process for physical and metal ailments.. it would suits anyone with awareness and believing that affirmation works like any medication.. You can refer to this book whenever an illness appear and practice those affirmations however for me it helped me detect what are the thought patterns causing me all these health issues and to my surprised most of the “new thought patterns” were almost identical or had similarities. Now I have to workout on those common thought pAttern of mine and I’m sure of results will occur
LOUISE HAY WAS WORKING WITH AIDS WHEN MERILYN TUNNESHENDE CAME ALONG, LOOKING FOR AN ENDORSEMENT. BELIEVE I.T. OR NOT...LOUISE WAS AFRAID...WHICH IS UTTERLY AMAZING...GIVEN THE INFORMATION THAT SHE PUTS OUT. BUT IT IS THE TRUTH. THE AWESOME THING IS THAT LOUISE IS NOT FAR FROM BEING CORRECT IN HER MENTAL AND VERBAL AFFIRMATIONS AND ASSERTIONS. THAT IS NOT TO FEED EGO...BUT RATHER TO GUIDE TOWARDS HUMILITY...REPARATIONS AND ACCURACY.
pretty awesome little book. I found that a lot of these illnesses was/is right on with the causes. Now to put it to the test.
Louise Hay is awesome. I have enjoyed reading several of her books.
neat! quick little reference book to mind-body connection to common illnesses
The movies of my mind are beautiful because I choose to make them so. I love me.
Heal your body, es un libro fácil de leer, pero cuesta un poco el poder creer en lo que se lee y aún más llevarlo a la práctica.
Éste es un libro pensado y escrito para todos aquellos que piensan que la mente es tan poderosa, como para poder sanarnos de todo.
Aunque el libro me engancho hasta terminarlo de leer, siento que lo hubiera hecho aún más si la autora no hubiera dejado hasta al final su historia, razón por la cual otorgo cuatro estrellas.
I have mixed feelings about this book.
I DO believe that the mind and body are connected, and that if you're more optimistic, you will be overall healthier.
Studies show that people who are optimistic about their outcome during cancer treatments are more likely to go into remission.
I do believe that anger and fear and bitter feelings slowly poison our bodies, as well as our minds.
So I'm undecided about this book, but I am going to make a conscious effort to think more positively and remove negative emotional patterns from my life.
The author suggests that our mental state and outlooks can be the causes behind physical problems, an idea that i do not disagree with. It lists specific health problems and lists possible negative thoughts/mindsets that could be hiding behind them and suggests positive affirmations in order to change these mindsets/thought patterns. The list said list is very specific. How accurate is each specific relationship between the problems and causes is I guess for each person to decide on their own, however I like the approach of positive affirmations. Learning self-love through positive affirmations can definitely only help.
I don't know, I couldn't get into this book.
I'm always looking for good books on positive manifestation / the law of attraction, but I read her biography and the very beginning of the first chapter, and, I don't know....is it me, or is she really judgmental?
I also think she's taking the law of attraction waaaaay too literally.
While I get the concept, I found some of her notions to be rather far-fetched (not EVERYTHING is our fault - and I doubt we choose our parents).
A much better book on the law of attraction is Shakti Gawain's Creative Visualization - it just seems to make much more sense.
I am not sure what to make of this book.Undoubtably there is a connection between thought, feeling and bodily health, but I can't figure out how to express it. Some of the prayers/mantras seem very apt for the bodily health issue. Others not so much.
Fascinating way of looking at physical manifestations of the body into metaphysical attributes and ways to counteract them, actually heal the physical body!! Incredible what the mind can accomplish!!
two words life changing
Great reference book for finding the underlying spiritual and emotional causes of physical dis-eases.
