https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/286801.The_Summer_Before_the_Dark
About the summer before the dark.The first thing that struck me while reading was this - Fuck purple prose.
(And I say this in full acknowledgement of the fact that my prose is often closer to purple than any other color.) Screw post-modernism and its deliberate way of being obtuse, obscure, snarky.
This laying bare of all the everyday inner battles a woman wages with her conscience, with society, with those hunters lined up on the sidewalk eyeing her with the interest of a sexual predator as she walks home in that form-fitting dress.
I love my share of po-mo fiction and purple prose almost as much as you guys do.
The landscape is unlike the usual Lessing novel; different and in some ways, fascinating: London, Turkey, and Spain.
One of Lessing's greatest attributes as a writer is her ability to peel apart the layers of female consciousness, the "sense of self kept burning behind so many different phantasms," and place these variations within parallel plot lines, parallel character portraits.
And later, Kate meets Maureen, the younger version of herself; they become friends and during this time, their self-awareness evolve around each other.
While Maureen values independence within relationships, Kate finds self in her duties as wife and mother.
Não posso dizer que não tenha sentido genuinidade, mas senti por vezes que Lessing estava muito mais interessada no que tinha para dizer, do que na obra que pretendia criar para o expressar.Isto não será alheio ao facto de que muito do que se vai discutindo ao longo das páginas estar ligado a um mundo teórico defendido pela autora, do feminismo à psicanálise, passando pelo marxismo, um trio de conceitos académicos muito em voga à época da escrita do livro, os anos 1970.
Bir kadının kendini istemeye istemeye zincirlerinden koparma çabasını izliyoruz, kitabı bana göre etkileyici ve gerçekçi yapan da bu.
Normalde bu tarz filmler, kitaplar okurken hep şu olur: Kahramanımız çok isteklidir, çok azimlidir, dış engeller bir şekilde alt edilir ve mutlu son.
Aslında insanın içindeki değişime karşı direnme güdüsü, alışkanlıkların rahatlığı ve bir türlü silip atamadığımız sevme/fedakarlık yapma isteği pek işlenmez.
Son Aydınlık Yaz'da dış engeller yok, Kate'in Kate'e karşı mücadelesi var, büyük zaferler yok, küçük bir zaferle kapatıyoruz hikayeyi.
Hissettiklerimiz yüzünden kendimizi ne sert yargıladığımızı göstermesi ve gerçekçiliğiyle sevdiğim bir kitap oldu Son Aydınlık Yaz. Bu açılardan beğendiğim Ferrante'nin Sen Gittin Gideli'si var bir de.
After drudging through page after page of Mrs. Michael Brown's good hair and bad hair, I ask myself the very same words so often uttered by the beautiful, pot-smoking, dancing waif Maureen: "'what's the point?'"
Βαρέθηκα Ισως δε με πέτυχε στη φάση, αλλα σαν να παραπλατύαζε.Απογοήτευση γιατι Το πεμπτο παιδι μου έκλεψε τον ύπνο. Επιτηδες δε βαθμολογω, γιατι θα επανελθω. Αναγκάστηκα να το παρατήσω στη μεση, κάθε σελιδα και υπνάκος
. ..it seeemed to her that she had acquired not virtues but a form of dementia.""Kate had spent the morning walking slowly up and down up and down that long crammed street, taking in this truth, that the faces and movements of most middle aged women are those of prisoners or slaves.
""That was how people changed; they didn't change themselves : you got changed by being made to live through something , and then you found yourself changed."Agree with her assessments or not, what I love about her is that she is taking a woman's experience seriously and thinking about it and describing it and trying to be as truthful as she can about what it might mean.
This book is perhaps too character-driven. (Stop dreaming and go get your hair done, you pathetic old bat!) And yet, I was struck by how much I could relate to Kate Brown--the capable wife/mother who reluctantly embarks on the standard issue midlife crisis, and returns to her London suburb only after an exhausting series of salty pan-Euro adventures. Doris Lessing showers her reader with all imaginable foils of Kate Brown--all, that is, except the one I wanted most to meet: the Kate who had learned to stand up for herself before age 50.
Так или иначе, в один прекрасный день 45-летняя англичанка из небедной семьи задумалась о смысле своей жизни: дети выросли и заняты своими интересами, муж в постоянных разъездах и с разными любовницами, она домохозяйка.
Ухватившись за предложение друга семьи, она начинает работать, сначала в Лондоне, потом в Турции, затем она едет с любовником в Испанию, и все это время ей кажется, что её жизнь изменилась.
Именно ей и нужно прочесть эту книгу: чтобы увидеть своё будущее, чтобы понять как можно раньше, что жизнь одна, что пролетит эта жизнь очень быстро, и может так статься, что в старости останутся одни сожаления.
За мен "Лятото преди мрака" е от онези образцови примери, че същността на романа не е в ситуациите, които той покрива.
Действията, декорите, обстановката - те стоят на заден план, а светлините са насочени към онези вътрешни процеси, които са поднесени подробно и пълнокръвно, при това с точната мярка.
Зрялост и опит?- Ако това е всичко, което има в мен...
This is wonderful...She (Kate Brown) is 1/4 Portugese married to a lovely Englishman for many years & now at age 45 finds herself suddenly called into active duty as a bona fide Portugese translator...and into a new lifestyle....At Chapter 2 she is embarking on travel to Istanbul, Turkey....I am already amazed at the clever opportunities that this author uses!On the cover of my 1968 printed paperback I found and bought from Bookmans, also The Golden Notebook is also being promoted!
I fear the lead character Kate Brown does not have what it takes to ENJOY a midlife affair.
What can I say. Some writers tell, others show; Lessing reinvents you.
I can't even force myself to finish this, but me and Lessing are definitely finished.
I'll be honest - I did not get much of what Doris Lessing was talking about yet - maybe - I feel exactly like she wants me to.
There's no storyline meandering to come to a conclusion or a wrapping up of events.This sense of nurturing - of taking care - of being the mother figure - of always smiling smiling smiling - of a sexual object - of attention - of being primed into such roles.
Maybe it signifies the inner struggle Kate has - to come to terms with who she is, perceived by others and by herself.
Summer Before Dark is a wine made of words, with a spicy aroma and NO, this book will not be favoured by everyone's palate.Kate Brown, a mother living in the suburbs of London, finds herself in an unfamiliar situation: “this was the first time in her life that she was not wanted.” after the departure of her husband and nearly grown-up children for various summer sojourns.
Kate spends much of the novel trying to understand personal feelings and the social myths imposed upon her.
Her 'long interior journey' poses many questions for readers, what her life has become, and where has she reached?
Consequently, it’s no wonder that some believe feminism equates to hating men.
By definition, a feminist is a person who believes all people, regardless of gender, should have equal places in society, in the hope of equal opportunity, success, and happiness.Author Doris Lessing is a feminist, and her female characters are the stars of The Summer before the Dark.
Happily, their journeys reject standard modes of behavior, and each think, feel, and act in their own accord, finding moments of clarity as they do so.The Summer before the Dark is very character-driven, sometimes resulting in a meandering plot and tedious redundancies.
Well, one is supposed to rate a book according to one's own idiosyncratic taste, especially on a semi-private forum like this.
According to Lessing--or at least her main woman character Kate Brown--one just concedes to what others have decided you should be, unless, like Mary, one of the background characters in this book, you simply reject all that and live as an eccentric others just can't figure out nor tolerate.
This is a disturbing book and makes any sensitive reader wonder what "authenticity" s/he has given up to be a functional, acceptable parent, child, husband, wife, or friend.
That being said, the book is slow-going!
The heroine is forty-five.Most books both by and about women are coming-of-age tales with ingenue protagonists.
Even supposedly feminist novels tend to reinforce the idea that a woman’s life hinges on her youth and desirability.
This book is a coming-of-age tale in its own right, except that it’s an age where women are on the brink of invisibility.
But in middle age, Lessing's protagonist is finding her power instead of it diminishing.
You don’t know how much you need positive depictions of older female life until you find them.
We need more images of the future as continuation instead of as decay.
Skimming through it as a young adult, I could not imagine myself bogged down by such a miasma of self-deception as the narrator slogged her way through in search of her own authentic self.I certainly was never going to allow myself to be blinkered!Suffice to say, now that I am the age of the protagonist,I marvel at her courage and i found myself completely engaged by her process.
What I dismissed as tedious analysis I recognize now is a depth of perception that did not appeal to one intent on skimming the bright shallows.Not for everybody then, the existential crises of a genteel lady coming to terms with her life and attempting to place it in context.
Not bad, but I got impatient with the main character. I felt she got a bit self-indulgent at the end. I don't remember anything "devastating in its consequences" either (blurb, you lie! or at least exaggerate!). Originally 3 stars but downgraded to 2 because even though I read it only five months ago I've already forgotten most of it. Any book that falls out of my head that fast can only be a meh.
به نظر من که کتابی کسل کننده بود که کشش لازم را نداشت. و از وسطای داستان خواندنش را نیمه تمام گذاشتم
Though Lessing’s piece takes place in the 1960s, she’s covering familiar territory: Lessing’s heroine Kate Brown has reached a point in her life where she has the chance to figure out who she is, outside of her roles of dutiful wife and nurturing mother.
Kate has done what she’s supposed to: she supported her husband by raising their children, running their home and entertaining their guests.
The lines of reality and fantasy are blurred in a horrible outcome.
This feels a lot like a long form version of what is arguably Lessing's best short story, "To Room Nineteen".
And "To Room Nineteen" has one of the darkest, most bitter endings I've ever read, whereas The Summer Before the Dark feels too good to be true by the time it wraps up.
It's surprising to me to see all the quotes Lessing made toward the end of her life about being disillusioned with feminism.
The second great realization she comes to is that she isn't in competition with all other women.
Since this is Lessing, Kate's summer of brief madness is still often filled with cynicism.
Kate Brown is a 45-year-old London housewife and mother of four young adults who finds herself at a loose end.
Kate and Maureen become each other's foil and friend for a little while, and then they move on--but only after they each make the startling realization that women make their reality by the image of themselves they project and that nothing matters.
This is to say that they realize they can create their own realities and decide for themselves what is worth caring about--and in their own good time.In the end, liberation is not a group project but an individual one.
While the theme certainly resonated with me, and I found myself littering the book with scraps to mark ideas and observations that connected to my life personally, or were interesting in a feminist-time-capsule kind of way, or that represent some fundamental truth about women's existence in general today, I nonetheless found the book somewhat of a tedious chore.
Too much "tell", not enough "show".
That said, the novel provides ample food for thought about one's role (in a family, in society), what happens when one (if one's entire identity is wrapped up in one's role) is no longer particularly necessary, and the crisis of identity that inevitably ensues.
Didn't realize that i was getting a book from before she veered into the genre (didn't realize that there had been a veer).
So far, enjoying its subjectivity -- it is less surreal and mysterious than On a Dark Night I Left My Silent House, but i feel like they are closely related.Living in the head of a woman of another time (mid 20th Century) is alien enough that it might as well be science fiction.
Especially in that this book is examining that woman's thought processes and her assumptions as they collide with a suddenly change in much the same way it would have to make explicit an alien world.
After an aborted attempt at the Golden Notebook in my 20s I've kept away from Doris Lessing. When she was awarded the nobel prize I thought I should try her again, and this was all the local bookshop had from her 'oeuvre'. There are some devastatingly accurate chapters on becoming a middle-aged woman, but it lacked structure and meandered (boringly) in the second half.
wowsers... thought provoking indeed this book has so much going on via the narrative that a second read is mandatory. lessing takes onthe biggest subjects nonchallantly and then hits you straight on with truthfulness that is breathtaking in its simplicity...
Too much thinkin', not enough actin'.
