https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34992929-restore-me
(hide spoiler)](btw warnette didn't break up they're both just dramatic as hell so everyone pls rest)(also t confirmed warner and juliette will survive the series)(also t is literally a goddess so why ya'll worried she won't do these characters right)[READ 2--first reread]UMMMM STILL PERFECT I'M SORRY!!!!
At this point, half of my review is just Shatter Me 5 predictions, so i'll try and only give my updated thoughts lmao:-my new favorite scene in the entire series is drunk juliette scene-warnette angst in this is sSO OOOO GOOD (view spoiler)[i'm not even mad they broke up because it was so bittersweet and their feelings are still so present and asgfhjkhl; i love my babies i trust them.
It’s about two people who love each other but have gotten together under extreme circumstances and don’t actually know that much about each other, and they need to work towards this.Despite me not really having reread the first three books recently, I think both Juliette and Warner felt like the same characters, especially Warner.
I think that’s something that more readers should demand because there’s nothing that hurts more than seeing bad rep.TWs: mention of paste abuse, mention of alcoholism, alcohol abuse, meds abuse, anxiety, panic attack on page, unchallenged transphobic comments_____Pre-read:Me: I don't know are we really sure that expanding this series is necessaryBook: I'm going to have Juliette and Warner's PoVMe:
MORE WARNER OMG. CRYING.RESTORE ME BECAUSE I AM DECEASED.Here is more info on the three new books in the Shatter Me series!
I don’t like what happened to my independent and kick-ass Juliette from “Ignite Me” and I really hope that she’ll regain some of her self-assurance in the next book.
Warner didn’t deserve any of the shit he got in this book and I really hope Tahereh isn’t going to hurt him even more!!
Apparently Nazeera was a close friend of Juliette when they were kids and Haider seems to like Warner a lot, so I’m pretty certain there’ll be a lot of interesting revelations in the next book.
I’m really conflicted now and I don’t know if I loved or if I hated the book.
No more world-building?Where the fuck are Juliette's parents?So we're never gonna know Kenji's backstory?Do I really have to go on a fanfiction quest to read more Warnette scenes?And guess what, Tahereh answered all of these questions and gave us more Warnette, bless her soulBut hey, it was painful to read sometimes, way too painful Tahereh don't you dare rob me of my Warnette (and Kenji) happy ending!And don't go into Restore me expecting a lot of fighting and action because you're going to be disappointed.
To the book as a whole, actually.I'm just not sure this was what I was expecting.
Despite not being a fan of this series in the beginning, it really started to grow on me as the characters grew and the plot progressed.
After a while of just sitting here and staring at the wall, I've come to realize that the reason I'm not a fan of Restore Me is because it backpedaled in all the meaningful ways.
And every other character from the previous books?
Hell if she couldn't remember them, how the heck are they supposed to resemble the characters we've come to know and love?As for the plot.
I missed this characters.BUT SHIT JUST GOT REAL OMG.
I'm...just not sure this is a good idea.
SHUT UP AND TAKE MY MONEY. ALL OF IT!!!!
"I cannot let the broken girl inside of me inhale all that I've become. I cannot revert back to another version of myself. I will not shatter, not again, in the wake of an emotional earthquake."  NoNoNoNONO that can't be it, I need more. SOMEONE GIVE ME THE NEXT BOOK RIGHT NOW.Finally I'm back in this world. I have been waiting for this moment since this book was announced. I was really excited to see how Tahereh Mafi would continue this series after the ending of Ignite Me and this book defini
I was really excited to see how Tahereh Mafi would continue this series after the ending of Ignite Me and this book definitely took the turn I was expecting when I first read the blurb.
I was ecstatic about the fact that I would see Warner, Juliette, and Kenji after so long but believe me when I say that this book in no way portrays even a relatively easy life for these characters.
I really enjoyed this book and I can't wait for the next two.The characters have grown a lot since the last book, Juliette definitely among them, and a few more deadly secrets are revealed.
Yeah I read this book like super freaking fast! WTF HAPPEN IN THIS BOOK? I wish I could give this book a million stars ✨ , because 5 is not enough.This book just fucked with my mind in the best and worst way possible.I’m happy about it, don’t get me wrong, but also pissed 😤 you know?The story keeps getting better and better and crazier then ever.So much happened that I had at least 5 heart-attacks. I’m absolutely more in love with this series then I was before. I’m so excited and sad at the same
I’m so excited and sad at the same time for the sequel, because it will be more close to the end and because of the ending of this book (like what that hell was that?), but I also need more of this beautiful, breathtaking story and freaking bloody answers.I had thought about what happen being possible but I didn’t thought IT WAS ACTUALLY GOING TO HAPPEN!!!!!!!!Give me the next book right this fucking minute.I’M LOST IN FEELINGS THAT I DON’T LIKE!!!!!!!!!But this book was fucking awesome😎 but WTF?What that hell was that ending?I adore literally everything that happened, even though it was shit (good and bad shit).But like, we don’t have a release date for the next book, which means NO FUCKING ANSWERS UNTIL THEN.
i wasn’t going to a write anything out here but seeing as people are [warner voice] idiots i feel something should be said.it’s so clear when people give this book a low rating that they truly never understood what these books were about and don’t understand...idk...how character development works...how relationship development works.
if you can’t handle that, go read fanfiction because there’s tons out there of them cuddling in bed instead of taking on their problems.the especially frustrating thing to me is people calling warner and juliette whiny.
“I love that the girl who blushes so easily in my arms is the same one who would kill a man for hurting me.”  I don't know what to do.
I don't know what to say.
Wow!
This book left me speechless.
Now I'm staring at the wall of my bedroom and keep thinking that I really want to unread Restore Me so bad.
I want to do whatever that must be done to bring back the moment before I picked up the book and I'd tell myself to never read this.
Don't get me wrong.
Yet when it comes to Restore Me, she's going back to the same old Juliette we know in Shatter Me. Her insecurity, her fear drive her to the breaking point that makes her do terrible things.
Unfortunately, there're many things that I don't like in Restore Me. And if you want to go on, I must warn you that it might contain some major spoilers of the book, and I bet you don't want me to spoil your mood, right ?(view spoiler)[-Warner and Juliette break up.
Full review HERE!Here’s a list of things you will NOT expect from Restore Me:-Any of the plot twists, seriously, not one-Having your chest ripped open while Tahereh Mafi stands over you manually pumping your heart for you and letting you know that at a moments notice she can ruin your life and end youBecause she really did just do that, she really left us with one of the most devastating cliffhanger I’ve ever read.
Tahereh, also said she didn’t think this book ended on a sad note and I want to know WHAT IS YOUR DEFINITION OF SAD?!
I will not shatter, not again, in the wake of an emotional earthquake.”“The destruction of the world didn’t happen overnight, and neither will saving it.” Holy.
I can't even begin to process what the hell I'm feeling, because there are way, way, way, to many emotions going through me at the moment.
The best way to describe what happens is this- One bad thing happens after another, revelation after revelation, about the Reestablishment, things about Juliette and Warner's past.
This wait is gonna be the death of me :(“This, I think, is the way to die.I could drown in this moment and I’d never regret it.
Using some booktubers and sites like Kirkus reviews and Common sense media to hide the problematic content of a book is also common practice of the big publishing houses.Either way I think it's time for honest reviewers, booktubers and librarians, to add information of sexual content and not try to cover it up as it has been the case with the erotic content of Sarah J Maas books.
Ignite me was pretty much new adult, and I like that, but I'm tired of publishers and authors shoving sex-scenes down young readers throats without proper warnings.
Let them all burn in hell.”  Let's be honest, Restore me by itself is NOT a bad book, Restore me as book 4 in a series is bad!I say this with a broken heart as I always recommend this series when I am asked about good series and 2 things account for this: The poetic writing style and the character development which is one of the best I have ever read!I wasn't very happy with Ignite me ending as I wanted more, and the story had more potential for sure which left me reeling with excitement when I saw that we're getting an extension!I know that Tahereh listened to the fans when she added Warner POV, more Kenji and less poetic writing!That may not seem bad, right?It actually is because she had destroyed the whole development that she spent 3 books working on, Juliette is annoying and childish as in book.
April 26th, 2017:I'm torn between 'GIVE IT TO ME NOW' and 'please, don't ruin my ship, my precious otp...'Also I liked how Ignite Me ended, soooooooo I guess we'll see *keeps all the fingers crossed*March 17th, 2018:“All of you kids,” he says, shaking his head.
Like, I would have found it weird if Juliette had been able to be this perfect Supreme Commander even though she’s fucking new to this world.This book is more about Juliette and Warner confronting their past, thinking about what’s going to happen next now that they’re in power.
This is really hard to explain but I feel like I just read a dramatic af fanfic. For some reason I couldn't even process that this was a LEGIT addition to the series. I'm not sure whether that's a good thing or a bad thing though. It's been ages since I read the first three shatter me books so maybe that's why the characters seemed a little off and the plot line was a little bit odd. Overall, I enjoyed it but I'm still really confused about wtf this book was. But I'm excited for the next one either way.
I. Am. Not. Okay. After that cliffhanger, I'm not sure how I'm supposed to wait a whole year for the next installment.
I know some of you are a little bit unsure about the whole fourth book thing, but I was really happy diving into this world and meeting all my favorite characters again.
Also, we get a few new characters, lots of drama and action and Juliet is finally an absolute badass.
He’s the perfect best friend we all want to have and I absolute love him.Also we have a few new characters, that are actually pretty fascinating and cool, so I can’t wait for the other books so we can meet them a little bit more.
Especially when I found out it was going to be told in two perspectives, and one of those being Warner!I loved that this book was dark, depressing, and addicting.
I already knew going in, since it was going to be book number 4 and there are going to be six total, that there were going to be things that would piss me off and drive me crazy.
Also, the chemistry between Juliette and Warner was just as good as before.
Whether they are happy or arguing it’s all ignited!Just don’t go into book four expecting all sunshine and rainbows!
I absolutely loved it!
5 unholy stars! Re-read July 2018Okay, I had to read this again because it was just too amazing the first time. But the second time around was even better! The PAIN of it all! I seriously can't wait to see where this story takes us next! I am keeping my rating at a solid 5 stars! Tahereh's writing keeps surging especially when she writes Warner's character. The words, the sentence structures... the DEPTH! It blows me away. I will add that I've been intrigued by Warner listening to  "Like A Rolli
SPEECHLESS!!!Nothing, NOTHING could've prepared me…EVER for the twist this book took!!!AAAARRRRGGGGHHHHH!!!!I have waited 3 insufferable years wishing for just one more book…just a little taste of what happened after the end of “Ignite Me”I want to kiss Tahereh Mafi for gifting us with “Restore Me”, book 4 in her awesome “Shatter Me” series.I was all smiles and had so many warm fuzzies blooming in my chest as my beloved characters greeted me with wide, open arms like old friends welcoming me back home after a long vacation.
[3.5]Okay, I am so glad this series carried on BECAUSE SHIT JUST GOT REAL!!!But what was that ending?!I am so intrigued! And fascinated!!I WANT TO KNOW WHAT HAPPENS NEXT!How this'll develop. There's so much potential for it and I. Am. Excited!!!! 😍-------------------------------Here for Warner and Kenji!
I.....need some time to process this
I was excited, but I was keeping my expectations low and what I found was a very logical book that followed right after the events in Ignite Me.Everything that happened in Restore Me was a consequence of all that went down in the previous books -Juliette doubting herself and feeling lost at power, Warnette at risk (they were like really together for only about few chapters back in Ignite Me before shit hit the fan.
She was a display of emotions and consequences and even though some will perceive her in this book as if she fell back into Shatter Me Juliette, I liked that.
OMFG 😯😯😯 THAT END!!!! :-/
she truly changed the entire game and I'M LIVING FOR IT.god, this book had me so STRESSED even the second time around and i just wanna announce that restore me will be the only thing i‘m gonna talk about for the next year until we get book 5.what the fuck.
i'm just so thankful to tahereh for writing such realistic and relatable characters, she will never know how much this means to me.btw there’s ONE spoilery thing that i wanted to address before and i feel like now that more people have read it i can??
i swear, the last 30 pages of this book were literally just me repeatedly whispering ‘what the heck?!’ to myself.
ive been looking forward to reading this for such a long time and it didnt disappoint, regardless of the ending!
sure, i wish it hadnt been such a complete filler book (there really wasnt a plot - it was just a book to give the reader some much needed information, catch us up to speed, and set up for the next book) but it honestly wasnt boring.
i was very much engaged whilst this, loved meeting some new characters and reunited with old ones (more adam, please), and obviously because of that ending, im already dying for the next book!!

