https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/135836.Trainspotting
The book is written in the Scottish dialect, sortay like whit ah’m tryin tae imitate, ken whit ah mean?
Ah’d be the last foreign cunt tae pit doon the Queen’s English, likesay, bit truth be telt, ah cannae understand iny cunt if they’re fae iniwhair north ay Birmingham.
I sais tae um thit ah saw Full Monty, which wis filmed in Sheffield, n ah dinnae understand inything.
The cunt telt us thit the pish gits cheaper n the burds git easier the further north ye go, ken whit ah mean?Life is mundane n depressin, bit sae whit?
There's no point lying, this is a challenging novel, sometimes you have to read things twice or pause to think about them to fully understand what's being said.
But, unlike a lot of books that are difficult to read, this was ultimately rewarding and once you get used to the slang words it becomes a very gritty, moving and funny read.Trainspotting is a story about a bunch of Scottish heroin addicts (Rents, Sick Boy & others), it's about the dregs of society and it's about prostitutes.
It's told in several short stories that switch between first and third person narrative and switch between character point of views.
But alas, the fate threw Welsh's "Trainspotting" my way and I ate it up like hot cakes."Trainspotting" is a collection of short stories narrating scenes in the lives of a Skag Boys (skag = heroin) - Rents, Sick Boy, Begsbie, Spud, and various people around them - their families, lovers, drug suppliers, partners in crime, or victims.
Considering that every other word in this book is a profanity, I think Irvine Welsh has talent."Trainspotting" starts off as a rather repulsive read - within the first 10 pages Rents is fishing out the drugs that he has just rectally ingested out of the filthy overflowing public toilet.
Everything you heard about this book is true.
Be prepared for a deluge of c-words from page one to page last, be prepared for a detailed account of a bunch of lively Scottish junkies scuffling and waiting for their man and spiking up and all of that.
Yes, the first ten or 15 pages will be tough tough tough like Clockwork Orange since it's written in the language of Scottish junkies.
Hack your way through the first few pages and you'll be hurtling along, larfing and barfing, lurching and hurling, all the way to the sticky end.
Apparently some people find the title of the book obscure.
Probably the most famous passage from the book: "Whin yir oan junk, aw ye worry about is scorin.
git a burd, too much hassle, canne breathe withoot her gitten oan yir case.
Ye worry aboot bills, food bailiffs, these Jambo Nazi scum beatin us, aw the things that ye couldnae gie a fuck aboot whin yuv goat a real junk habit.
Reading this book feels like going home.
Oan the writing, ye worry aboot loads ay things.
Cannae git a publisher, nae chance ay a making it.
Git a publisher, too much hassle, canne breathe withoot them gitten oan yir case.
con un ferro da calza, perché il coltello si ferma a volte contro le costole.Per questo motivo più che un romanzo, Trainspotting di Irvine Welsh sembra quasi un'antologia di racconti brevi: il problema é che essendo sempre sotto droghe e cambiando il punto di vista della narrazione, a volte non si capisce chi é che sta parlando (la scena allucinante del film in cui Spud si caca addosso nel libro é molto peggio, peccato che non si capisca chi stia raccontandola tranne che non può essere Spud, il quale infarcisce ogni sua frase di "non per dire" e "capito?", cosa che non avviene nella parte in questione...
Buddy Read with Murugesh.This is the first time I am reading a book that involves Drug Addiction.
But as the book progresses, just by looking at the language and particular use of words, I was able to identify who the narrator for the chapter is.We follow the lives of drug addicts, the depth of the addiction, the fight to come out of it and then back to the addiction.
The diseases that the addicts are prone to (AIDS because of the needle sharing) and apathetic daze they live and die in.There are some very unlikable set of characters and at the end of it you don't feel like rooting for any of them.
I actually quite enjoyed this book though some parts of it were really hard to take.
There's a lot of vulgarity, sex and violence, but the book also talks about some important issues, such as Scottish nationalism, HIV/AIDS, drug use (there's a LOT of drug use), racism in the UK and the problems in Northern Ireland.
The characters are quite colourful and interesting, I think they are well-developed.The book was quite philosophical and witty at times, though mainly from a misanthropic viewpoint!This was definitely a tough book to stomach, especially with the vivid way violence of all kinds is portrayed.
I will probably be reading the sequel to this book in the near future.
I love the movie so much, I didn't think this book could be better than the movie. Oh, but it is. Review to come, because I need to process what I've just read. P.S. I'm attempting to review the book in phonetic Scots, it's immensely difficult.
I will say that after a few pages it did get easier, once I started to figure out which words meant what.If you missed out on this movie back in the mid 90's, here's a basic rundown :Heroin addicts struggle to live life while fighting their addiction.
As ah shakily hand the spoon ower the candle, waitin for the junk tae dissolve, ah think; more short-term sea, more long-term poison.
This thought though, is naewhere near sufficient tae stop us fae daein what ah huv tae dae.After finishing my read and watching the movie again, I will say that this story is one I'll never forget.
I've actually read this book several times (as it never fails to wow me) - when the original film came out, I remember rushing to the book shop in a frenzy to go and buy it...
now I'm showing my age!
Irvine Welsh is such a fabulous writer - visceral, searingly truthful and highly amusing in places.
I thought he hit the Scottish brogue just right with his dialogue, and the characters were so convincingly conveyed...I defy anyone not to fall in love with the hapless Spud!
(Just beware when you read Porno...images of Spud=ruined FOREVER!).I always loved the film, but for me, the book has the edge.
However, Boyle and Welsh gave their distinct styles to this magnificent work, which makes them brilliant, each in his own field.I remember having a conversation with various people about which scene of the movie is the most shocking.
While the majority would vote for the one with the baby in the crib, I've always considered the one where Mark od's and sinks into the floor before he's taken to the hospital, while Lou Reed's Perfect Day plays in the background to be the most brilliantly shocking scene of the movie.
However,I found that the book characters were much more engaging and human.
I have no proof, but I believe that Irvine Welsh lived the stories he has written down, and that each of the characters is based on himself.
Plus, I loved looking into the spyglass of modern Scotland it provided.
It's a shame that written communication is being so cheapened by electronics, because Trainspotting's language could be as important to the development of the English language as, at worst Anthony Burgess with A Clockwork Orange, and at best William Shakespeare.
Please, unless you shy away from blood, sweat, pain and human shit, please read Trainspotting.
I do get the point, or the non-point, of this book, I do.
It's not as if it's the first book about drug-abuse from an abusers point of view, either (see Confessions of an English Opium Eater for the first one), nor will it be the last, and it's not the most out-there book I've ever come across (a novel from the point of view of a T-Rex probably holds that title).Is it great that we're seeing the very dredges of society in book form?
Yeah, probably.
We need a little of everything here, not just girly romance and myths and magic and Mordor, and not just linear books that have endings, either.
I tried reading the book, but couldn't understand over half of the language.
Tried listening to it and couldn't understand half of the narration.
Bitching about not being able to read this book would be like bitching about not being able to read a book in Japanese because I don't know Japanese.
Just because I don't know what the author's saying in his native dialect, doesn't mean there's anything wrong with the book.
It's just not written in language I can translate.I think I'll give one of his English books a try.
I haven't got time to write a review so I'll just say Trainspotting is an amazing book. Great movie, too.
Se fosse un quadro, sarebbe del viscido e melmoso vomito sparato con forza su una vista di Edimburgo.Se fosse musica, sarebbe piuttosto un agghiacciante stridore metallico schiaffato in mezzo ad una melodia armoniosa. Di quei rumori sbagliati, quelli che ti fanno coprire le orecchie.Se fosse un film... beh, c'è già un film, e va benissimo vedersi quello, senza presentazioni.Questo è Trainspotting; onesto (come l'ero), sbagliato (come la vita), bellissimo (come l'imperfezione di Rents).
I watched the movie first years ago and absolutely love it even to these days, the book itself is almost just as good although the book's ending is a bit weak when comparing to the movie's ending. I love how Irvine Welsh weaved his sharp, cutting observation of the 1980 to 1990 Scotland society and the teens' subculture into his sassy tale about coming of age, trust and friendship for a bunch of up-to-no-good drug addicted teenagers. And it's one of my most favorite coming of age tales of all time!
Best Scottish thing ever. If you can read, as in just read this, then you are my hero. It's written in pure Scottish dialect. And it's movie gave us a young Obi-Wan Kenobi.
'We start off with high hopes, then we bottle it... Basically,we live a short disappointing life; and then we die. We fill up our lives with shite, things like careers and relationships to delude ourselves that it isn’t all totally pointless.'  Lately I've been really into books that involve drug addiction. I don't fucking know why... Okay sooo the edition i got is in Greek because it came for ''free'' with a newspaper i purchased. Since i liked the movie i was like 'Shit i liked the movie.why
We fill up our lives with shite, things like careers and relationships to delude ourselves that it isn’t all totally pointless.'
Such a thrilling story, i know.
I didn't expect it to be a collection of short stories.
I'm glad i wasn't aware because i don't like reading those kind of books & if i knew, i don't think i would have bought it.
If you like the movie get it, If these kind of books interest you/you are in the mood to read something ¿different?
get it & If you are like me and love violence and the word 'Cunt' get it...
In questo libro ho letto:1357 volte la parola “cazzo”595 volte la parola “coglione/coglioni”163 volte la parola “stronzo”97 volte la parola “palle”Dunque, se volessi limitare il lessico a quello ampiamente privilegiato dall’autore, il massimo di recensione che potrei scrivere sarebbe: “Ma che due palle, cazzo … ne ho pieni i coglioni di leggere quel che fanno ‘sti stronzi!”Oddio, non sarebbe granché come recensione, ma avrebbe innegabilmente il dono della sintesi.
Sono una vecchia e rispettabile signora io, tsk tsk… e che vi credevate?A parte gli scherzi, a tratti il romanzo è anche passabile, però l’encefalogramma piatto dei protagonisti stanca e sfianca parecchio.
Quando c’è aria di tempesta ogni porto è buono, e me la sento, la tempesta che m’infuria in corpo, dietro la maschera che ho in faccia.  Una provocazione a più livelli, uno spaccato del mondo della droga, uno scorcio marcio dietro la facciata patinata e infiocchettata di una nazione, un viaggio crudo e oscuro nella mente umana. Senza sconti.Non vuole insegnare nulla, è solo una voce sotto forma di pagine che pretende di essere ascoltata. «Beh, magari qualcuno a posto c’è rimasto» dice Jane, qu
«Beh, magari qualcuno a posto c’è rimasto» dice Jane, quando ci siamo riprese.«Sì, cazzo, se sono in minoranza va tutto bene» le faccio io, chiedendomi da dove viene quella punta di durezza che c’è nella mia voce, ma forse preferisco non saperlo.
Rents si potrebbe definire come il protagonista, ma questo solo perché ha una coscienza di sé molto più spiccata rispetto agli altri, e in uno stile che punta a fondersi con la mente dei personaggi, è fondamentale.
E allora, secondo Tom, non serve a un cazzo venirmi a dire che sono andato bene agli esami, che ho un buon lavoro o che sto con una bella ragazza; perché questo tipo di riconoscimento per me non significa niente.
Audio # 37This was superb as an audiobook! I cannot push this enough. The narrator’s voice makes it all the more heinous. I stopped looking for redeeming qualities. I just let the story flow. Just disgusting but in such a good way. Could not stop listening
Unpopular opinion: I did not like the way this story was told.It wasn’t the use of the Scottish dialect – living in Scotland I can deal with such a thing – rather what I couldn’t enjoy was the way the story seemed to be told through short stories.
It felt more like things simply were rather than being allowed to see how things slowly came to fruition.Honestly, I wanted to enjoy this one much more than I did, yet my interest kept slipping each time the story changed.
This, however, all boils down to one thing: I’m really not good at reading short story collections.
un libro o película por la cual tengo una gran devoción. No soy nada parcial con mi opinión. Solo deciros que es un libro sobre la realidad de la vida, con un lenguaje muy soez, con descripciones muy duras y desagradables. Por lo que no es apto para según que lectores de tripas sensibles. Más sobre mi opinión en la reseña del bloghttps://almalectora.wordpress.com/201...
At least, we're not that fucking stupid.The above quote is about shooting heroin, but it can pretty well be applied to the book as a whole.
The pleasant surprise in all this turns out to be the characters, the Skag boys.
Thing is, as ye git aulder, this character-deficiency gig becomes mair sapping.
Every time ye git it thegither tae make a comeback, thir's jist a wee bit mair missin.
Yip, ah'm jist no a gadge cut oot fir modern life n that's aw thir is tae it, man.
If I had to choose a word to describe Trainspotting, it would be art; you get to know the characters, to understand what they are going through and to feel their pain, their reality.
The book is about an alternative way of living, being aware of the fact that we have no clear purpose on this planet, and choosing to dodge the burdens of life like a genuine rebel.
Choose a job.
Choose a career.
Choose a family.
Choose a fucking big television.
Choose DSY and wondering who the fuck you are on a Sunday morning.
Choose life...
La cosa curiosa è che la distanza del prodotto cinematografico rispetto all'originale, che spesso comporta un giudizio alquanto negativo, in certi casi, come questo, ribalta la situazione: insomma, di Trainspotting mi è piaciuto mille volte di più il film, perché probabilmente è un'altra cosa rispetto al libro.
Del romanzo originale rimane lo spunto, il gruppetto centrale di personaggi, ma la progressione narrativa e soprattutto lo stile sono diferrenti.E' passato molto tempo da quando ho visto il film, eppure ci sono certe scene che mi sono rimaste attaccate addosso.
I imagine when people hear the title of this book, they immediately think something scene.
(I swear my own thoughts started sounding Scottish.) To me, what's shameful is how people think the film is so great...compared to the novel, the film is really Trainspotting light..and it's the reason why it's passed off so easily as just a book about druggies.
(I thought Danny Boyle did a much better job of Shallow Grave personally.) This book deserves to be treated not as simply an icon of pop culture but with the deftness of a surgeon using a scalpel, carefully dissecting each hidden meaning and character.
Those that know me are aware that I've never seriously (and can count on two fingers how often) done any serious drugs- the worse I 've tried was weed and it did absolutely nothing for me except make me feel like I was choking to death.
why the attraction of Irvine Welsh's lovely books?
I think Irvine Welsh brings to life the "lowest of the low" in a way that many can appreciate.
The works of Irvine Welsh have absolutely nothing to do with my life.
