https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25574.Common_Stocks_and_Uncommon_Profits_and_Other_Writings
The book is particularly dangerous as the basis of an investment manifesto for investors with less savvy than Fisher as today's most esteemed companies frequently trade at high valuations, leading to their systematic underperformance as the natural forces of competition and mean reversion do their work to undermine the market's unrealistic expectations (see David Dremen's Contrarian Investment Strategies for research backing this statement).
Clearly most of Fisher's value-add came from industry scuttlebutt and qualitative judgement - unfortunately not something one can learn much about from a book.Common Stocks is not in the same league as Ben Graham's, The Intelligent Investor, which in my view can be employed by the average investor improve his long-term performance (and is backed by substantial research by the author and subsequent studies).
Read this book if your aim is to gain several thousand % in the long term by concentrating on few outstanding firms with excellent management.
(For example, one could have gained more than 9000% by investing in GRUH Finance ( a subsidiary of HDFC) when it was a small firm in early 2000s) The book will help you to find future blue chips.
PS: By combining Fisher's ideas with those of Graham's, one can develop an excellent understanding of the stock markets.
Parikh's ideas on Behavioral finance are outlined in an excellent book called Stocks to Riches.
کتابی که فیشر نوشته است صورت دوم رویکرد وارن بافت را نشان می دهد که آن خرید سهم های گران قیمت استسهم های فیشری سهم های شرکت های رشدی هستند که دارای پارامترهای خوب بازار و مدیریت می باشند، در زیر باید ها و نبایدهای فیشری در مورد این شرکت ها را بخوانید:https://farachart.com/4217در واقع این کتاب به معرفی شرکت های پیشتاز بازار و خرید سهام آن ها و نگه داری سهام و نفروختن این سهام تا پایان عمر می پردازد، درس های سرمایه گذاری خوبی می شود از فیلیپ فیشر آموخت که به حق دید خوبی در حوزه ی سرمایه گذاری به افراد می دهد.
When I first discovered my interest in investing, Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits is one of the first books I read.
Fisher's approach requires common sense and conviction, but most importantly, is repeatable.There are many awful "investing" books out there that seize on people's need to be cutting edge and innovative.
Investing with patience, after research, and with a long-term view, while avoiding ever-present behavioral pitfalls will always lead to better returns, better sleep, and a happier retirement.This is my second read of Fisher's book, so it was more of a quick review than my original detailed study.
Buy great companies which you never plan to sell. That's the basic concept. The book focuses on and makes some excellent points on the qualitative side of security analysis. It's also a very easy read as quantitive standards aren't really discussed. I will definitely re-read it.
Although this book was written almost sixty years ago, the wisdom the legendary investor Philip Fisher shares through it remains of high value to everyone interested in the stock market, and investing as a whole.Honestly, it is a classic, that I also recommend to everyone who's goal is to understand what makes a company great, and how to distinguish it from the mediocre ones out there. It is a book full of wisdom, that will (at least) enlighten you, and help you make a better decisions. As for the rating - 5/5 absolutely!
I have not completely changed my mind after reading Fisher's book, but I do at least appreciate his perspective and think that formulating an opinion on a company's earnings growth drivers should matter in addition to determining whether a company's shares trade at a sufficiently low multiple to earnings, book value, and cash flow.
Moreover, Fisher claims to favor growth stocks over value stocks with low price-to-earnings ratios.
Again, I wanted to believe Fisher and favor a growth-investing philosophy; but I don't think the empirical data supports his earnestness for a growth over value approach.
Having read the  Benjamin Graham classics on value investment, and was expecting something similar with "Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits", yet it is a completely different book.
Fisher doesn't go into the details of fundamentals analysis, because his investment focus is growth stocks he does something much more interesting, he goes into the detail of how is the company actually run and what are its prospects, linking this analysis to whether or not that stock is investment worthy, i.e. if the company has what it takes to have above average growth in the future.
So, even though  Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits and Other Writings is presented as an investment book, it is actually a book full of deep meaningful insights on business strategy.
Not giving Phil Fisher 5-stars is a bit like saying "Renoir sux". Probably reflects more on me than on the author or book. Still, of the many investment books, this left me least comprehending how to develop confidence in a growth-type company, nor did it delve into non-profitable growth.One of the most valuable notions may be just that such companies exist -- and make for very rewarding investments.That said, BYD is likely a "Fisher" company.
Dated, not worth reading. I'm sure it was groundbreaking when it was first written, but pretty mundane by any standard today.
Phil Fisher pioneered an early type of long-term investing where he would pore over financial statements and call employees working every post of the company.
Back then, such fundamentals weren't priced in as efficiently as they are in today's markets, and Phil did well for himself (though nobody knows how well).How much of it was luck?
Phil Fisher doesn't cast a wide net of predictions, but one thing that impressed me was that his understanding of the future of semiconductors seemed to be ahead of its time (and correct).
While Phil gets a free pass, this book is dangerous to the uninitiated due to outdated advice such as what's contained here.
The book teaches you how to use the scuttle butt method or a method that is used to extract information related to the company's performance and evaluate whether this company is worthwhile for investment.
Personally, I really like the part where he discussed about new things in the company; he said "one should look for a company that do 'research' to create 'new products' that can generate a strong revenue for the company at least several years and the revenue should cover the whole researching cost for it to be a worthwhile investment".
Common Stocks And Uncommon Profits by Philip A. Fisher is a book about investments and how to be successful when investing in stocks. Fisher divides his book into three parts. First with common stocks, conservative investments, and developing an investment philosophy. In these sections Fisher emphasizes what to look for in a growth stock, the characteristics of a profitable business, and how his experiences in the stock market helped to develop his own philosophy.  There are many things that I
In these sections Fisher emphasizes what to look for in a growth stock, the characteristics of a profitable business, and how his experiences in the stock market helped to develop his own philosophy.
A few of these things are that it gives a very detailed description of what to look for in a profitable investment as well as what makes a good business.
Fisher also describes the characteristics of a good business in which he goes in depth in section two by explaining the management, strategic marketing, financial skill, and people that make up an excellent company.
I like, also, the short autobiography at the end, especially his quotation of Shakespeare: "There is a tide in the affairs of men which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune."Strikingly, parts of the book seem so fresh and relevant, written as they are some two decades ago.
This makes me wonder: perhaps an age, an era, is less defined by technology/infrastructure and more by whether the thoughts and ideas of men in earlier years continue to be echoed by those of later years.
Some peripheral details, of course, are no longer relevant, but much of the investment process, the observations of investor behavior, the insights on good management, still resonate.Coincident to this, the Shakespeare quote was written before the stock market evolved!
The great investor Phillip Fisher wrote this book more than fifty years ago.In this book Mr. Fisher describes interesting ways of acquiring more information about companies that you wish to invest in.
Don't miss reading part two of the book, "Conservative investors sleep well." This book is a must for those who are investing from a business point of view.The book provided a great framework and understanding of the questions that you need to ask before investing in a company and where one should look for answers.
I have mixed feelings about this book.
The general idea of the book enforces the importance of intrinsic value, that if an investor does his due diligence in researching common stocks, owning just a few stocks for long-term promises handsome reward.
However, the method or framework for evaluation provided in the book is hard to carry out for retail investors without contacts or connections.
The book might be useful for fund managers, or investors with sufficient connections that they can have a meeting with a company management to carry out the mentioned assessment.
Otherwise read this book with a pinch of salt.
A well written book on the fundamentals of long position strategy. Fisher goes into detail in explaining the rationality behind each of his recommendations/strategies. Fisher uses fictional examples as well as sharing his real life experiences as well. Specifically, I found his 15 point system to be relevant as opposed to the many outdated finance strategies/books out there as well as his approach on finding & researching growth stocks towards the end of the book. Overall a great book and I recommend it to all who are interested in long-term growth stocks.
Quick read and informative.
Very interesting writing on the way successful companies work in the 1950's (not massively different to today).
Touch of the Horatio Alger to stretches of the prose.
Fisher basically says he gets all his information from his stockbroking pals which is bad news for any newbies and once sorta tells you to just go to an investment advisor instead of trying it yourself.
His focus on information gather correlates with my experience of how difficult it is to find out about companies.
The low grade because of the fact it was a chore more than an interest/pleasure read.
read only the summarythink long termignore mr marketresearch your companies welllook to buy when there's a temporary drop in the stock priceTo be a successful investor, you have to be willing to dig. A company’s true value is based on so much more than its stock price alone! If you’re willing to put in the detective work, you stand to reap great rewards no matter whether you’re a conservative investor or a high-risk one.
I try to summarize this book really briefly:This book emphasizes growth. And that's easily understandable when you take fishers's attitude of long-term holding. So, you look for a company with a potential and competence. "it's better to get great company with a good prize than a good company with a great price"
The key message in this book:To be a successful investor, you have to be willing to dig. A company’s true value is based on so much more than its stock price alone! If you’re willing to put in the detective work, you stand to reap great rewards no matter whether you’re a conservative investor or a high-risk one.
Buffett said he's 85% Graham and 15% Fisher... I can now see why. Fisher goes beyond the 10K. Fisher's teachings have inspired me to learn about business in a new dimension, allowing me to look at a company's core business, operations, and management, and see how that information might not be reflected in financial statements. Must-read for any investor.
One of the great investment texts. Fisher goes beyond the annual report and suggests that investors dig deeper into fundamentals, focusing on high quality/high return businesses. He posits that the best time horizon is forever, certainly an approach taken by Buffett, who was significantly impacted by Fisher.
Most people know that Warren Buffett follows Ben Graham's investment style. He usually credits Graham for his success. But when his partner Charlie Munger introduced him to this book, Buffett realized how important the management and brand are to the companies. He changed his investment style to the one of "buying great companies at fair prices" and the rest is history. It's a great book.
This is one of the greatest books of investment in history. It's not a surprise that this is one of the top picks by Warren Buffett. In addition, Warren Buffett is using P.A.Fisher's philosophy in his investing. If you want to become smart value investor - it's a must read. Don't invest until you read this book. Good luck in your journey, my friend. ;)
Es un clásico de inversión en bolsa. Aunque es cierto que ha cambiado mucho el mundo bursátil ( ya no hay que solicitar a la empresa los informes financieros o entrevistas con los ejecutivos - está todo más al alcance hoy en día) sigue siendo un buen libro para reflexionar sobre qué empresas elegir para nuestra cartera, por qué hacerlo y cuánto tiempo deberían formar parte de nuestro portafolio.
The investment advice provided is reasonable and straightforward, but like most good advice the problem is in the execution. However, the writing style is atrocious and the information contained could have been presented in 60% of the space if the writing had been better.
Good Fundamentals, sound practice in the 15 steps. somewhat dated relative to the current market. Must read if starting out in stock investing, applying most of these principles to reviewing your 401k mutual funds would be a sound practice as well.
Not personally useful to me as the strategy put forth requires proximity and connections to the executive management class and beyond (scuttlebutt). Nonetheless it seems sound and straightforward, and it does give me some sense of what I'd want from a financial adviser.
Too wordy. Introductory principles, but the best was: invest in a few great companies and hold them for years.
