https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51106.Tam_Lin
I suggest reading it before you read Tam Lin, to help you catch the many subtle clues and hints that tie this novel to the original ballad.This version of the story follows Janet's life and times at a small liberal arts college, beginning as a freshman and going up to Halloween of her senior year, and her many interactions with her roommates and friends.
Tam Lin is basically a modern re-telling of the Legend of Tam Lin. The characters are one dimensional, Janet is REALLY annoying and everyone is incredibly pretentious.
I mean, I have an arts underground background myself and I don't know a SINGLE person who spouted poetry at me.
It's hard to explain-I found the plot fascinating (in the sense that the creepy, foreboding nature of faerie is pretty well developed) but I didn't really like a single character.
Hell, I'm not sure I was ready to read it.ETA:Okay.I loved the literary allusions.
and yet again wonderful, and after that, out of all whooping!"But.The thing that I hated about this book is that it caused me no small measure of bitter regret.
I try to never indulge in regret.
My motto as regards regrets, like Lazarus Long's, has long been "When the ship lifts, all bills are paid." And this book, from the first page through the last, made me so sad for the chances I did not take, for the scholarship I scorned, for the English & Classics students I did not meet.
I've read 200+ pages and I'm throwing in the towel.
So far, all that's happened is the main character, Janet, has gone to class.
Romantic poets and playwrights have been discussed, bunk beds have been dismantled, a bust of Schiller has been stolen, bowls of tapioca have been eaten, the merits of various college professors have been weighed, and everyone--EVERYONE--goes around spouting random bits of poetry and prose.
After perusing a few other reviews, I feel confident that it's not going to get any better and the whole fairytale thing is tacked on at the end.
I wanted fantasy and instead I got a novel as riveting as reading a college course catalog.
(I really did!)The (alleged!) premise of this book is that it's a retelling of the fairy tale/ballad of the same name, set in the early 1970's in a small Minnesota liberal arts college.
Endless discussions of literature--by which I mean, for the most part, old-school poetry and plays--seem to substitute in the author's mind for both plot and character development.In fact, there's so little tension in this book that halfway through, Janet realizes the biggest problem in her life is that one of her roommates, while a perfectly nice girl, doesn't understand Janet's literary obsession.
Sing it, Sandy.So, for those of you not in the know, Tam Lin is a Scottish ballad about the liberation of Tam Lin from his love and capture, the Queen of the Fairies.
Reading it is kind of exhausting.Janet is a freshman at a small liberal arts college in the Midwest.
Our campus had a ghost story too.But reading this book was sort of like being in school again.
This is sort of sloppy writing, but at the same time, isn't that sort of how college went for a bunch of us?
When Janet Carter enters college, she and her roommates, Molly and Tina, fall in with a small group of charismatic students, who are all closely connected with the Classics department and its Professor Medeous, an enigmatic but fascinating woman.
As Janet wends her way through her four years at college, she learns more and more about Medeous and her followers and eventually finds herself entangled in their intrigues.Dean spins Janet's story into the tale of Tam Lin in a slow, subtle, and gorgeous way.
This book is a lot of work.
I don't mind a lot of work reading, sometimes, but cripes, I honestly don't care what classes she takes each quarter.
No. It doesn't.All the action(!) -- what little there is here, and by "action" I mean "plot" -- happens in the last 150 pages...
*sighs deeply*Unfullfilling ending.
Ends.
After slogging through all that "what class to take, what author to quote" pretentious shit I get 3 pages of shapeshifting and a disapproving stare from the villian.
And no resolution to the personal shit.Can I have the time I spent reading this back plzkthnxbai?!
I expected to like Tam Lin, per Pamela Dean, quite a lot, because it came highly recommended and because of all the other things I was told were involved in this retelling — the ‘college as magic garden‘ aspect, primarily.
But it takes time, and you have to want to spend the time in the magical garden, spend time with these very young, very serious, very earnest characters who are just beginning to go about meaningful work and love and relationships.
The very worst thing about this book was the horrifyingly clunky prose, and the author's need to describe everything in exhaustive detail in the most boring way imaginable, like a fourteen-year-old's daily entries in her diary (I kept a diary a lot like this at fourteen - I think it might have been better written).
I hate the way it's written and it's one of those infinitely annoying American books set in liberal arts colleges that seems to be set in a parallel universe very similar to our own, but where nothing quite makes sense.
In other words, she is a bitch.Do not take me on faith: “Janet managed not to laugh again; if that had been her own quilt, she would have been furious.”"Look," said Janet, irritated, "if the thing you liked best to do in the world was read, and somebody offered to pay you room and board and give you a liberal-arts degree if you would just read for four years, wouldn't you do it?"  That is so not what college is about.
The Skeat and the Schiller episodes elicit authentic explosions of hilarity in Janet; but the reader is left cold, along with the characters too out of the loop, uncool and antiglamour to know the college folklore.PS:I liked Keats and Shakespeare and the ballad of Tam Lin. But Dean I didn’t.
Dean makes the setting—a midwestern liberal arts college in the early '70s—come alive so completely that even when the biggest issue at stake is what classes Janet, our heroine, is going to take, I was utterly entranced.
Which is not to say that I didn't like the undercurrent of weird supernatural goings-on—on the contrary, I LOVE that kind of thing.
How are you back to discussing Pope already?"That said, I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this book because I did enjoy the build-up so much, and because Janet is such a wonderful character.
I reread Pamela Dean's wonderful TAM LIN this weekend while traveling to my cousin's high school graduation party, because while this book is a fairy tale, it's also a book about how college life works (a land equally strange to me as fairyland was when I first read this book in high school).This book is so good. It's phenomenal as an ethnography of the mysterious and fantastical land of college, with discovering first love and also learning new things -- and it's also a great reading list (and full of Shakespeare).
I should have listened, because this was a strange, strange book, the kind that makes you scratch your head and say “err…uhh…huh?” However, I was compelled to finish it, only because I wanted to find out how the story ended.
Plot-wise, the story was actually pretty interesting, but the storytelling was inconsistent and erratic.
She expends so much detail on what classes Janet is taking and what everyone is majoring in....did the reader really have to sit through all of Janet’s advisor visits?
There were so many more interesting plot points she could have developed, like the ghost stories, Professor Medeous, even her relationship with Thomas.
The majority of the novel focused on mundane college life.
I've read this book at least four times. It's one of my all-time favorites. When I went to college, I was very disappointed that not everyone ran around quoting Shakespeare and lived to read, as they do in this book. Also, my dorm was not haunted, which only made for more disappointment. Dean has created something wonderful here: a brilliant tapestry of the best of her college experience along with the best of Celtic folklore. A charming book, a fun book, a romantic book, a clever book, an intriguing book.
I really adored The Dubious Hills (review here), and I am sure I'll enjoy more stories set in that world.
This version of Tam Lin, however, is not for me.It's really a story about college friendships and the college experience, with just the barest whiffs of magic around the edges, if you sniff very, very hard.
I'm pretty committed to the Tam Lin-as-Tam Lin story, and here it seems incidental.
just not my thing.
I think Juniper, Gentian, and Rosemary will be more my thing.
A retelling of the 16th-century Scottish ballad by that name, set in a 1970s Liberal Arts college in Minnesota – because every story must eventually be retold to be about American teenagers.I'm a big ballad nerd, so it was cool seeing how the novel fit into the story, but I have to admit, I really hated this book to begin with.
The first few scene-setting chapters read like they were written expressly for the notional bookish 13-year-old girl, dreaming of college (and, in places, by her).
Later, though, Janet gets told off a bit for her judgmentalness, and the prose settles down to merely unremarkable.
I think that describing one of the male protagonists as madly attractive and then spending much of the book having to imagine him (unironically) with billowing, ruffled front silk blouses was beyond my capabilities to suspend disbelief.
Madly attractive and billowing silk blouses on an early 1970's college campus doesn't work for me.
Jennifer Crusie quoting from movies made Welcome to Temptation hard for me to get into - this book was in many ways pure torture.
And can I add just one more yuck for the billowing silk blouses?
I enjoyed the beginning SO much. Dean well establishes the texture of college life, and I especially enjoyed the roommate tensions. I thought I was going to love the book, but as time went on, I was worn down by the novel's structure...which delays plot gratification till the very very end. Also, the heavy-handed allusions outweighed even the pretentiousness of my college friends and me...which, at that point in life, was quite pronounced indeed. :-) Enjoyable, but okay rather than awesome. Starts to feel long.
I simply adored this book, but I confess when I tried to teach it (In YA Lit, in the Reimagined Fairytales and Other Magicks unit) most of my students just didn't get it. They didn't get the lusciousness of the school setting, nor the magic of the late fantasy. Ah well.
Tam Lin is a great story, featuring Scottish heritage, 1970's nostalgia and an adventurous plot. It kind of lost momentum at some parts though and became repetitive.
I have thoughts. They will be written at some point. I was in my mid 30s when I finally watched The Breakfast Club. I rally enjoyed it but I'm glad I didn't watch it when I was at high school; school was already something of a disappointment. I read Tam Lin for the first time this year, 15 years after finishing my undergrad studies - yes, with a BA. I am really glad that I didn't read this before or during my studies. I thoroughly enjoyed university, but there was very little spontaneous Shakesp
I read Tam Lin for the first time this year, 15 years after finishing my undergrad studies - yes, with a BA.
So it wasn't what I expected, but mostly in a good way.Spoilers are hidden, if you're like me and not up on your faery-tinged-undergrad-learning love story!
Although there are love stories in the novel as well.)Like I said, I was expecting the fairy stuff a lot earlier than it actually turned up.
It was amusing to note the similarities in Janet's experience of college and my own, as well as the differences, some of which are temporal (25 years different), many I suspect are geographical (US expectations of a 'liberal arts degree' are very different from Australian ones...
The fact that Janet, the protagonist, would then look down on Christina for not being well-read, or sharing her love of literature, whilst not bothering to even TRY understanding her, also annoyed me.
I realize that on some level, the author was trying to portray Janet as a self-centred snob, who couldn't appreciate anything or anyone who wasn't remotely like her, whilst also depicting her as a brilliant student, but it ended up alienating me as the reader.
In the end, I think that it wasn't the most elegantly told story, and that the fact that it was generally unfriendly to those without an extensive reading background, limited my understanding and appreciation of the book.
I knew this was more about people talking about books than the ballad retelling.
The problem for me was not the lack of fantasy, just that I thought it wasn't a very good book about people talking about books.
The author and the characters aren't really that clever or interesting in their reactions and ideas about books; it probably wasn't pretentious enough for me, really.
To talk about the actual ballad aspect, Janet doesn't seem to actually have any impulse to save Thomas at all.
I suppose there are several faults with Tam Lin. One would be justified, I believe, in saying that the book is over long and that at times the talk about relationships isn't very adult.
In many ways, however, this book is really for those who love literature as well as the story of "Tam Lin" that the novel is based on.In the original story that this novel is based on, an ordinary girl wins back her lover from the queen of faerie.
It's the discussions in the book about literature.
In a large part, this book is for readers, readers who LOVE literature (in particular, medieval).
Pamela Dean mentions this on the back flap of the Firebird edition I’m reading: “Tam Lin was a rusher-off.” Written technically in tight-third, the first half of the book seems more like a diary—the excruciating details of college life, down to every class, literary work, assignment, play, conversation, and walk in the woods.
And oddly enough, to the same readers who find the first bits of Tam Lin too detailed: it will provide a great source to the anthropologists of the future, if they ever want to read about someone’s experience at a liberal arts college!)Most novels are one-sided conversations.
“Tam Lin” is an ancient Scottish ballad that tells the story of how Tam Lin is rescued from the Queen of the Fairies by his true love, Janet.
Only Janet can rescue Tam Lin from this fate.In Pamela Dean’s modern retelling of the Scottish ballad, Janet is a student at Blackstock College in Minnesota.
As in the ballad, Janet begins a relationship with Thomas Lane (same initials as Tam Lin) and becomes pregnant during an encounter in Charter Hall (sounds like Carterhaugh, the forest in the ballad).
Other novels came and went (usually dictated by library return times) but I kept coming back to this, savoring it.The story revolves around Janet, a college freshman beginning her higher education at the college she's been around all her life.
Her father teaches there, she's wandered the grounds, her life in one way or another has circulated around it, it is definitely a major character in this novel.Tam Lin was suggested to me because I wanted something "October" to read, and it filled the bill perfectly.
Still haven't read enough of their references, I need to push myself more into the old classics.
I almost aborted this around Chapter 2, because it seemed to be a story about a girl going to school.
Her story is light on plot, and the folk-tale/faery-connection both slight and obvious.
Oh, but she writes lovely, long discourses on books- novels and poetry, plays and criticism.
Her characters' conversations and musings are full of allusions to Homer and quotations from Shakespeare; descriptions of a Jacobean play and a detailed review of a Hamlet production; discussions on Chaucer and medieval French poetry; and Shakespeare, again Shakespeare.
I don't remember students being so in love with their subjects and I envy Dean's characters their college days.
I got 300 pages through it and flipped haphazardly through the rest to learn random things, like "main character breaks up with dreamy weird boy #1", "i guess she starts dating someone else", "pregnancy????", "oh here's the actual tam lin bit, like 450 pages in"I think my status updates do a decent job summing up my feelings while reading, but in short: characters are pretentious as fuck and largely intolerable!
Many beautiful boys with gorgeous voices and discussion of classical literature i don't really care about!!
