https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87958.Dark_Paradise
Her story is full of characters so realistic they practically jump off the page and by the end of the book you feel as though you're right in the thick of it with them.
Other than that, I barely noticed the lack of cell phones or mp3 players.I don't normally like cowboys that much, but I LOVED J.D. Rafferty.
How I would have loved to have tripped over a man like that in real life.
Here is my question, to Tami Hoag, Linda Howard and others: Why do romance authors who write perfectly good, steamy, well-developed, compelling, character driven, believable stories, pitch it all to write crime/suspense fiction?????
This book, I'm sorry to say wasn't very good.
It was okay at best.
Her later writing is much better in my opinion.Here is my synopsis:Rude, harsh, cowboy has rapist-like thoughts about his new neighbor.
The two hate each other passionately.
They end up making out.He talks tenderly to her, they fight, vowing to never engage again in the best sex they ever had.The meet again, fight and end up having sex again.Okay, there was more to the story than that, but it is so annoying to me, that now, I'll always remember this forgettable book.
I really enjoyed this book until I reached the halfway point. The storyline was good, but how many times does Hoag have to tell me that the character is stubborn/lonely/loyal/a misfit? I get it already! I didn't lose my memory from the prior chapter. Or the one before that, either. I would have rated this book much higher if not for the annoying repetition.
I loved this book, the town, the characters, the unexpected twists, and who doesn't want a rough, sexy cowboy with hands of steel? Hot and steamy - J.D. wins my vote!
You know who the victim is but during that scene, the identity of the killer is not revealed.We then proceed to get to know the heroine, Marilee, a court reporter who has decided she needed a change in her life and travels to Montana to be with her friend Lucy.
Surprisingly she is informed that she is Lucy’s heir and the letter she left for her leads her to think that someone may have been behind the accident.Undecided on what to do with her life and the property Lucy left her while at the same time intrigued by the people she meets Marilee decides to stay in town for a while.
Lucy and Marilee Jennings became friends when they were both court reporters in Sacramento.
Lucy quit to buy a home in New Eden, Montana a year ago.
Marilee decided to surprise Lucy by driving up to Montana for a vacation.
Unfortunately, the surprise is Marilee's when she learns Lucy was killed 10 days ago in a hunting accident.
Marilee is not so certain that Lucy's death is an accident.
Lucy left Marilee her home and ranch and the neighbor JD Rafferty is very interested in the property.
As Marilee starts digging into Lucy's life in Montana, she wonders if blackmail was involved.
Loved it! Good vs Evil, old ways vs new ways, old money vs new money. This one had me turning the pages like crazy. Definitely need to start reading more books by this author.
4 STARS
2.5 starsThis book stumbled over formulaic writing in a very unfortunate way.
She realizes she's pregnant, a fact that has nothing whatsoever to do with the plot of the book.13.
After a random amount of time passes he comes back to her.Actually I have to say, this formula fit Lucky and Serena pretty well.
JD's rejection of love wasn't as natural as Lucky's, and given his love of tradition and of the land his persistence in pushing her away felt extremely forced.
This book wasn't all romance -- if it had been it would have gotten a 1 star.
I liked Marilee Jennings who left her old life in California to hopefully start anew with her friend Lucy MacAdams in Montana.
Unfortunately when she arrives, she finds out that Lucy has been accidentally killed doing something very un-Lucy-like.
Marilee is positive that Lucy was murdered and sets out to prove it.
Unfortunately the bad guys have issues with her snooping into their affairs.
It just didn't have the same feel...maybe too much sex between people who dislike each other.
I like Tami Hoag's mysteries where the characters have sex but it's not in-your-face and doesn't interfere with the plot.
I usually love Tami Hoag books, but I was very dissapointed in this one. It was too naughty for my taste (I probably should have quite reading it, but it is hard for me to put down a book once I start...I know excuses, excuses). I thought the story line was stupid. And the ending...Just not a very good book. Good thing this wasn't the first Hoag book I read or I would probably wouldn't try her again.
I've read a number of Tami Hoag novels because I enjoy a quick read and a good thriller plot. This novel made me wonder if I had picked up a Harlequin Romance novel instead. It didn't feel like a thriller until the last 1/4 of the book and then it picked up like the style I'm use to reading with Tami Hoag. Maybe because this is an older novel, maybe she hadn't found her groove...? I don't know, but was disappointed overall.
I only made it one third through.Couldn't take it anymore.Don't waste your time with this book.
This is a story of a court reporter from Sacramento who drives to Montana to visit a friend (and to escape her old life).
It is also a story of the modern West and the conflict between the local residents and wealthy invaders from the jet set.
There is murder, intrigue, and lots of sex.
I have never read a Harlequin romance (and never intend to on purpose); however, this novel appears to be a cross between a suspense story and what I imagine a Harlequin romance (or even a chick porn novel) to be.
This is one of her earliest novels, before she wrote thrillers. I consider it a romantic suspense. It has all the drama of a thriller and passion for a romantic suspense novel. Mary Lee Jennings leaves California to meet her friend Lucy in New Eden, Montana. Little did she know, she discovers her friend's dead, and learn the shocking truth of her secrets, putting herself in danger on living on a ranch life, and falling in love with a stubborn cowboy. A great read to enjoy any day of the year.
I read this book a while ago. The setting of the plot and characters evokes interest and the tale is woven well. Romantic scenes are interestingly written. Though the book seems bit lengthier than it should be. Some instants feel repetitive. But some metaphorical comparisons used in the language are noteworthy and amusing. Overall a commendable read.
I'm amazed I got as far as I did in this book. It's only because of the respect I have for Tammy Hoag's writings that got me this far. I simply cannot stomach cheap, sleezy "rommance" novels even disguised as a mystery. Overall, I believe I picked this book up & attempted to read it three different times but it is just not to be.
Got this at a yard sale. A court reporter starts life anew in Montana. She finds the friend who invited her has been killed. Some mystery but alo lots of impromptu sex and some violence. WOn't be looking for her books again.
I was pretty disappointed with this book. I couldn't get through to page 50. I was skipping through paragraphs only reading the when there was talking. Probably one of the most boring books I have ever read.
I realized within the first few pages(minutes) I had read(listened)to this book previously but in abridged form. While I enjoyed the abridged version, the unabridged was must better.
I was expecting a crime/thriller not Mills & Boon.
2.75 stars (round to 3 stars) for the redundant dialog and overly wordy story. IMO a least 100+ pages could have been eliminated without loosing the flow of the story/plot
One of my favorite books ever I have read it several times and still love:)
A complete and utter bore.
I was lucky enough to find a hardcover edition of Dark Paradise for a buck at a swap-n-shop bookstore. It's one of my favorites by Hoag. Love those Rafferty brothers!
Marilee Jennings, Lucy MacAdams, J.D.Rafferty, Will Rafferty, Del Rafferty, Samantha Rafferty, Edwin Bryce, Tucker, Miller Daggrepont, Sharon Russell, Judge Townsend and others.LOCATION...New Eden, Montana, USA..GENRE..Thriller.PLOT..
Considered as Mari the Misfit, by her family, dumped by her boyfriend Bradford Enright for his secretary and fed up by her court reporter job, Marilee Jennings reaches New Eden Montana to spend some time with her friend Lucy, to "clear her mind" and to start fresh.
J.D , describes Mari that her friend Lucy had been killed by a city boy named Sheffield mistaking her for a deer, and her body was found by his uncle Del Rafferty, who lives deep in the wilderness in a fractured state of mind.
I don't blame the people of Montana for not liking all those people from California invading their State.
"Lucy MacAdam," he said, cigar stub bobbing above his chins.
. .Page 97 .
. .Page 97 .
. .He trundled back into the vault and came out with a foot-tall old tin replica of Mr. peanut, which he thrust into Mari's hands.
She stared as the smirking peanut, then up at Daggrepont and back again.
"Why, it's Lucy.
She had herself cremated."Page 220 .
something aboutPage 221 this whole accident scenario that smells like an open sewer under a hot sun at high noon."Page 490 .
So, apparently this book was written while the author was transitioning from romance novels to mystery novels, so I can kind of understand why those parts are in the book, but missing from her newer novels, (which I read one or two of before getting to this one) but damn, boys gotta learn, no means no.
Not the authors best work, I like her later work much better, but taking into account the fact that it was like her second mystery novel, I could skip past the scenes where JD and MariLee are in the same room together and enjoy the rest of the book.
The mystery part of this book was really good, and the side-stories and suspense surrounding it were well-written.
However, I was disappointed in the fact that the author fell back on the cliche of 'the male lead hates/antagonizes the female lead, but then eventually they end up having mind-blowing sex'.I mean really, come on.
I could understand why Rafferty would be suspicious of a newcomer, but the author just made JD really cardboard in this.
And people wonder why women go for abusive men in real life.I would have rated this book higher if JD had been written in a better way.
The first book I read by Tami Hoag was Prior Bad Acts.
I love John Sanford's books and have read every one of them.
I was pleased to find an author (although not quite as good as John Sanford) that was almost as difficult to put down.
So I was excited to read another book by her.
I am willing to concede that Dark Paradise was a much earlier book by her.
Perhaps her editor thought those steamy scenes and overblown prose would sell more books.
I am willing to read another of her books to see if this was just an aberration.
