https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1375896.Queste
The quest of the fourth book, Queste (published in April 2008), is a journey to the House of Foryx, in which "all times meet", to bring back Nicko and Snorri, who were trapped there after the events of the third book.
When they reach the house, Septimus meets Hotep-Ra, the first ExtraOrdinary Wizard, while Jenna and Beetle find Nicko and Snorri.
اینبار در خیال آنجی سیج: روحِ نخستینِ دست نوشته یِ سحرآمیز، ترتیوس فیوم نام دارد، که برای سپتیموس و «جنا» نقشه ها کشیده، و خیالهای جنایت آمیز، در سر میپروراند.
Ok, so I'm always on the lookout for a series I'll enjoy as much as the late lamented Harry Potter.
This is not quite it, but it's not too bad, if you're 12 and need a good summer read.
Who need the occasional birthday present....This is the fourth book in the Septimus Heap series by Angie Sage, and while she doesn't quite have the imaginative originality and brilliance of J.
K., she's not bad, and there are some decidedly original touches in the series, which began with Magyk, Flyte, and Physik.
Her world is a little cosier than Potter's, though there are dark wizards with evil on their minds.
This is definitely not going to get darker.
It’s funny how in every book, one of the Heaps goes missing and the rest embark on a perilous journey to find him/her.
There is a lot going on at first, multiple things are introduced at once, but then they all fall together with ease and things go in a single direction.
Jenna, Septimus and Nicko are so frickin’ adorable and they care so much for each other.
It added yet more to the world of Septimus Heap and made some exciting revelations.
While I really enjoyed the first three books, I feel that Angie Sage has really hit her stride with this one.
Now that all of the characters are firmly situated in their Magykal world, she can focus on certain protagonists without the feeling (as in the third book) that she is including a few vignettes to remind us about the existence of all the various cast members.
Once again the short chapters move things along quickly as we ping-pong between different places and characters, but most of the narrative sticks with Septimus, Jenna, and Beetle as they embark on a Queste to find Nicko and Snorri, last seen disappearing 500 years into the past.
Berbeda dengan tiga buku pertamanya yang sangat menarik untuk diikuti, buku keempat ini agak membosankan dari bagian awal hingga sekitaran pertengahannya. Baru deh, beberapa bab terakhirnya mulai asik lagi dibaca. Semoga buku kelimanya bisa sesuai ekspektasi saya.
The tale begins when Nicko Heap and Snorri, who in a previous book found themselves transported out of their own Time, discover a clue that might allow them to return to their home Time.
However, the path home is a tricky one: Nicko and Snorri must find their way to the mysterious House of Foryx, "the place where all Times do meet." Once they are there, the difficulties are not over.
Finding and entering the House of Foryx is hard enough, but once they are in, they must wait for someone from their own Time to enter before they will be able to leave and return home.
While this book was good, I didn't think it was as well done as the other Septimus Heap books. The story seemed less developed, without as many of the little details that make everything work out in the end so well and cleverly as in the other books. But I still liked it and I look forward to reading Septimus #5! ...I just hope it's a little more original.
خوب بود فقط هیجانش کم بود . البته تا جلد چهارش خوندم فعلا پرواز و فیزیک از همه قشنگ تر بوده به زودی جلد پنجمم شروع میکنم
DISCLAIMER: Would have read this book sooner, but a friend of mine paid for my Warped Tour ticket at the last minute and I HAD to go.Such an improvement over the last book, Physik, where it felt eerily too similar to Prisoner of Azkaban, when it came to the time travel element.
Plus, It was boring.This installment is what the title says, a Quest(e) to undo the events of what happened at the end of the last book.
This is the fourth book in the Septimus Heap series by Angie Sage, and I have to say that it's as good as the other three.
It is not a Harry Potter clone, it can stand well on its own.
Good story, likable people, cool magic, even a dragon and some ghosts thrown in, with enough chilling "Darke Magyk" to raise the hair on the back of my neck, without being as scary as some of the later Potter books.
Nice for younger fans, and I think it would make a great read-aloud series for a family as well.
Vždycky, když si potřebuji odpočinout od krutopřísněhustých fantasy s hektolitry krve a YA žánru, sáhnu po dalším díle této série. Tohle je totiž to, co v takovou chvíli potřebuji. I když je pravdou, že celá série je spíše pohádka, ani mi to nevadí - rád se vrátím do těch let, kdy jsem si myslel, že všechno funguje tak, jak chci. Výprava za hrdinstvím byla vtipná, pěkná a pohádková, takže si nemám na co stěžovat. :)
Extraordinary wizards, flying dragons, dragon rings, chanting witches, fairy boats, time travel, talking rats, magical mirrors, trees, sleds, floors, wolf boys, shape shifting cats and questing stones. What more could you want in a fantasy. These are exciting, suitable adventures for young children and adults alike.
A character strength that Septimus had in this story is Perseverance. He shows this by pushing through the Darke Spell cast in the passage by standing his ground and summoning all of his Magyk to defeat the Spell
Great series for young kids who are not yet ready for Harry Potter or are looking for a similar story to dip there toes into. Beloved series of my childhood.
QUESTE takes Septimus, Jenna and Beetle in search of Nicko and Snorri, to bring them back from the past.
He Restores the pages and binds them in to a book, but they still miss one piece, the center of the map to the House of Foryx.Merrin, in the meantime, takes the job of a scribe in the Manuscriptorium.
Septimus, Jenna and Beetle enter the House of Foryx, but accidentally all three of them go inside.
In the meantime Jenna and Beetle find Nicko and Snorri and all of them try to escape the House of Foryx.
I was pretty impressed to, I’ve liked the other Septimus Heap books but the series seems to be getting better the further I get into it and I found a big difference with this book.
I thought using him to secure that point was actually a little unrealistic and I could think of a few other ways in which it could be introduced without using Merrin.
When "Physyk" ended, Nicko and Snorri were stranded in Marcellus Pye's time.
Septimus and Jenna were determined to retrieve their brother Nicko no matter what and perhaps Snorri incidentally.
Luckily, Marcellus, who is now living in this time, has given Septimus Nicko's notes which contain a map to the House of the Foryx where they might be able to save Nicko.
I loved this book.
Some of my favorite characters have leading roles: Stanley, Spit Fyre, and Beetle.
Beetle's sledding adventures are hilarious.
However, I am deeply disappointed that there is only one more book in the series.
I just love these books! It was witty and kept you on the edge of your seat. It is amazing what kind of creative story lines Angie Sage is able to come up with. I highly recommend it!
AWESOME BOOK!! This is totally my favorite Septimus Heap book. Now on to Syren!
That four years since I last read a Septimus Heap has left me very confused as to who, what, how, or why.A nice lesson in here from Simon: he no longer wants to become a wizard the easy way, through the Darke.
Ephaniah Grebe is the half-rat, half-human Conservation, Preservation, and Protection Scribe who lives and works in the basement.Marcellus Pye is the 500-year-old Last Alchemist with whom Snorri and Nicko have been staying.
Old Mother, a.k.a., Ells Laursdottir, is a stallholder who happens to be from the same time as Nicko and Snorri.Hotep-Ra was the Castle's very first ExtraOrdinary Wizard, and he set up the honor of the Queste.
3.5. Found it slower than the last book, which I enjoyed. Glad to see more of Beetle and the other heap boys.
Such a cute book. This series gets better with each story. I'm loving them!
All of those before can be read without needing the one before but here a vital part of the book influencing this making it a duology with book 3. Still good, likable characters and some not so, nice illustrated and still the same expanding good and clever world.
It could have been better
Septimus meminta bantuan Marcellus Pye, yang kini kelihatan muda namun terkadang berperilaku seperti orang tua dan pelupa.Marcellus bercerita bahwa di masa enam ratus tahun lalu, dia pernah bertemu dengan Nicko dan Snorri.
Nicko dan Snorri pun merencanakan perjalanan mereka dengan detail menuju Rumah Foryx, dan menitipkan peta serta list perlengkapan yang mereka bawa kepada Marcellus, berharap Marcellus memberikannya pada Septimus dan dapat membawa mereka 'pulang'.Dan di masa sekarang, peta dan list itu sudah berada di tangan Marcellus, namun kondisinya sangat rapuh.
I was expecting the story thread of the dragonboat and the remedy that Jenna picked up during her foray into the past in book 3 to at least be mentioned in this book.
The glasses of time in the four towers are briefly mentioned but never really explained.
(In fact, all of the glasses of time in this series so far seem not-very-well-explained.
It seemed as if the author was setting it up for him to show up at the House of Foryxxx or at least contribute some important help or information, but that part of the story seemed to come to a pointless dead end that made me wonder why it was even included.
Yes this is still predictable, as most children's books are, but with Angie Sage, it's the story telling that is sort of like a journey that you look forward to.
And there are names that appeared once or twice in previous books that were mentioned again here so be on your toes if you're reading this next.There are a few parts that dragged, sadly, so I took a star for that.
Yeah, maybe the book needs to stop emphasizing that she is a princess but the last installment was already published so ...
In the book Queste by Angie Sage, Jenna, Septimus, and Beetle needs to find a way to return back from the past.
Merrin wants to destroy Septimus and bumps into Jenna.
I liked reading this book.
I thought that this book was very interesting and that i like the adventures the characters go through.
I would recommend this book to people who likes to read about magic.
If you want to know whether or not Merrin defeats Septimus and whether or not they leave form the past and return to the present, you need to get a copy of this book and start reading.
I think that this installment of The Septimus Series has been my favorite so far, and the last of my rereads.
They are quite refreshing and enjoyable even though they are middle grade books.So keeping this simple, our trio Beetle, Jenna, and Septimus, tries to rescue Nikko and Snorri in this book.
I really feel connected to all of them in some odd way or another and it makes the story so enjoyable.I found that Beetle was a favorite in this book.
You see Beetle gain a ton of strength and courage in this installment and I love seeing him grow that way.
This is the fourth book in the Septimus Heap series that is filled with ADVENTURE, ACTION and MAGIC.
The main object of this book was three characters Septimus, Jenna, and Beetle go on an adventure to save Nicko and Snorri who are trapped in the house of Foryx.
This book really shows teamwork, dedication, and love for their brother Nicko.
I would really recommend this story to anyone who loves to read adventure books it is really great.Even though the story was all over the place I loved it.
I really recommend this book to anyone!
