https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/374174.Killer_Pancake
Book Review  3 of 5 stars to the fifth entry in the "Gold Bear Culinary" mysteries, Killer Pancake, written in 1995 by Diane Mott Davidson. As we've all come to expect, Goldy's off searching for the killer in another crazy story line. In this one, she delves into the seedy cosmetic business where too much pancake makeup (just kidding, sort of) has claimed the latest victim. And this time, it's the girlfriend of my favorite character, Julian. So much death, such a small family. How does this ha
Book Review
3 of 5 stars to the fifth entry in the "Gold Bear Culinary" mysteries, Killer Pancake, written in 1995 by Diane Mott Davidson.
As we've all come to expect, Goldy's off searching for the killer in another crazy story line.
And this time, it's the girlfriend of my favorite character, Julian.
Good characters.
Decent story, but a bit weak from a reasoning and character likability perspective.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]Diane Mott Davidson
I just need to stop reading this series.
I realize many people love this series, but it's just not working for me.
This series has none of those things, as far as I can tell.
You may wonder why I've read 5 of the books in this series if I dislike it so much.
(Goldy's ex-husband basically breaks into her house and breaks things .
That detective/husband basically sabotages her catering event to "keep her busy" at the job so she won't sleuth around?) And I never want to visit this strange town.
If this series works for you, that's cool.
In the case of the Goldy Culinary Mysteries, we expect both delicious sounding recipes, one of Goldy's loved ones to be suspected of murdering a fairly new character and Goldy getting involved way beyond what's considered acceptable and yet still managing to help solve the murder (thus clearing the loved one's name.) In Killer Pancake, the recipes are slightly less delicious sounding than usual.
The mystery itself wasn't shocking, but I'll admit I didn't see it coming.
The recipes set the tone in culinary mysteries and I couldn't make myself interested in food I would never ever eat.
It is getting harder to read these books.
I get more irritated with Goldy and her narcissistic behavior, her son, Arch, and her live-in catering helper, Julian with each book.
The books are very dated and I feel like I am listening to my mother and grandmother.
I have been listening to the audio versions of the books and I think the individual chosen sounds like my very snooty mother.
Goldy is very judgmental of the wealthy and constantly berates their behavior but never fails to mention that she went to boarding school and college and was once married to a wealthy doctor.
I liked this book. I am really enjoying this series. In this book, Goldy has a catering job with a cosmetics company. Her assistant Julian has a girlfriend who works at the company and then she is found dead, run down. Goldy goes undercover and gets covered up in foundation. The only thing I didn't like was the way the recipes were put in the middle of the chapters. I thought it was distracting. The recipes should go at the end of the chapters like they do with the Chocolate Chip Cookie series.
It's been quite awhile since I read the first few in this series, and I don't think I'm going to wait as long to read the next; this book was solid, fun, and a perfect read for a stormy day! The characters were wonderful. I love Goldy and her sometimes dysfunctional family and friends. The mystery was excellent, the killer wasn't very surprising, but there weren't many suspects, so I don't think I would've been surprised regardless. Overall excellent, I just bought the next one!
I listened to this one on audiobook as I have with all but one of the series so far. I really like the narrator and when I actually had to read one of the books in print I found myself pining to hear her voice. Anyway, I have heard the series goes downhill somewhat later,but so far I am still enjoying it. I have never made any of the recipes, so can't speak for them :)
Not my favorite cozy mystery. I’m not a huge make up fan and everyone who knows me knows that low-fat food does nothing for me. I could have guessed whodunit as it seemed pretty obvious. But I just didn’t care enough to give it much thought. I do still, however, enjoy the characters in this series. There’s not even one noticeably detestable one in the bunch.
Goldie has such a sarcastic wit.
Another helping of delicious mystery and humor awaits in this serving of Diane Mott Davidson’s series. Goldy’s encounters are riddled with intrigue, social political rifts, and scientific discoveries. I enjoyed all of the vivid locations and minor characters that were introduced as the plot unfolded, and this mystery kept me guessing until the very end. Barbara Rosenblat continues to wow with her performance.
This was a delightful and delicious read! Though it touched on some controversial topics, it managed to stay lighthearted throughout and it truly delivered on the mystery front! An absolute pleasure to read!
Does not disappoint. I am looking forward to making the killer pancake recipe. yum yum
#5 in the Goldy Bear Culinary cozy mystery seriesWhen Goldy caters an event for a cosmetics company, one of their top saleswomen is killed.
She takes a few chances this time and gets herself into some trouble, but luckily everything works out OK, although there were some dangerous moments.
As always, I like hearing about Goldy's catering jobs--the menu, how she prepares the food, etc., even though I'm not a cook myself.
Some unhappy moments with the Jerk, and a featured role for Frances the journalist in this episode.
Barbara Rosenblatt IS the voice of Goldy for me--she does an excellent job with her narration, with lots of inflection and personality.
This is one of the earlier Goldie Shultz adventures. She was recently married to policeman Tom Shultz. She is still trying to get her business Goldylocks Catering on to solid footing. However, the title “Killer Pancake” has absolutely NOTHING to do with the story. It’s a fairly good story about Goldie catering a posh low calorie dinner for a high-brow cosmetics company , a revolutionary “Spare the Hares” group threatening major damage because the company tests cosmetics on rabbits, ansd, oh, a death or two thrown in. Good story, lousy title.
These books are really cringeworthy (Julian has that "wise, Navajo healer" spirit, really?!) And what's with Marla calling the doctor "white man?" And why does the author point out that Harriet is waiting on a black woman? It was of zero importance. And the 12 year old son acts and is rewarded like he's about 6. But the mysteries themselves are ok. Not great fiction by any means. Oh, and it'd be great if she stopped describing people by their sizes (over and over and over).
Much better than _The Cereal Murders_. Whoops, I skipped one. The next in line should have been _The Last Suppers_. As always, there are implausibly silly scenarios in Diane Mott Davidson's books; nevertheless, they are easy mysteries to read and I enjoy the characters for the most part. Good "popcorn" reading.
It's a good series, I love the characters. This particular book had too many filler pages between the plot. The characters were frustratingly angry and not their typical behavior. Still love the series. Still will continue to read more. Just not necessarily her best work.
It was not a book that I would recommend unless they were interested in the recipes which also weren't so interesting to try making .
Glad I borrowed from the libraryThe story was OK, but it was just kind of slow. I can't bond with any of the characters, especially Goldy.
I didn't like this one. For me the best part was the last 2 chapters.
I think it is funny that people read a twenty plus year old book, and review that it is dated. I think it is interesting how we used to have to deal with things like pay phones and such.
Cutesy. A tad complicated. A good weekend book. A little dated with the presence and dependence on pay phones.
This book is pretty painfully dated with lots of casual racism thrown in...looking past that though, the plot was decent and I didn't guess who the killer was
Interesting mystery but I find the main character too whiney.
I liked the story line and the recipes, but it seemed a bit campy and dated. The title doesn't come into play until about 3/4 into the story and it doesn't really have anything to do with the plot.
This Cozy Mystery series is good.
I love this series
Usually I love the Goldy stories, but this just didn't fit together as nicely. Still a fun read.
I had a hard time keeping this one going. I've enjoyed the all of them so far but I had a harder time staying interested with this one...
I am a Goldy Bear/Schultz fan. I already read  The Whole Enchilada book #17 and the last one  I thought I would go back and read ones I missed. Although this novel isn’t my favorite in this series…it was still a fun read! Plus I totally enjoy audio performer Barbara Rosenblat.
I am a Goldy Bear/Schultz fan. I already read  The Whole Enchilada book #17 and the last one  I thought I would go back and read ones I missed. Although this novel isn’t my favorite in this series…it was still a fun read! Plus I totally enjoy audio performer Barbara Rosenblat.
