https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13141.The_Midnight_Club
An average Patterson thriller muddled by inconsistent writing and sappy melodrama.
Certain aspects of this book I really liked, but there were some scenes I found incredibly stupid.
Like when a dying policeman who knows the identity of his murderer decides to spend his last half-hour on Earth catching a taxi to his partner's apartment in order to tell him that he loves him--instead of, you know, passing on the crucial information to someone or maybe even getting himself to a hospital.
Soon after writing this book, Patterson penned ALONG CAME A SPIDER and established himself as a publishing superstar.
Very exciting! I always enjoy books like this that have action and suspense on almost every page. James Patterson is a master of adding unexpected twists and turns to his stories and "The Midnight Club" doesn't disappoint in this regard.
First published in 1989, I somehow missed reading The Midnight Club by James Patterson, not to be confused with his series the Women's Murder Club.The protagonist in The Midnight Club is John Stefanovitch, a New York cop confined to a wheelchair after being shot and left for dead by the Grave Dancer.
Patterson steers clear of all the possible traps and cliches here, which makes The Midnight Club feel like a fresh piece of writing, despite it being 23 years old.
It was okay.
Buku ini menyiksaku 😂 Ya, tiga perempat buku ini aku baca dengan agak terpaksa.
Terjemahan agak kaku dan ...
Harus mikir dulu untuk tahu maksud dari satu kalimat dan hubungannya dengan cerita.
Tentang satu organisasi kejahatan dunia bernama Midnight Club.
Organisasi ini mengatur kejahatan dan kegiatan bisnis ilegal di dunia.
Salah satu anggotanya (Alexandre St. Germain alias Grave Dancer) adalah seorang pengusaha sekaligus pembunuh bayaran terbaik.
Ia bermaksud merubah sistem organisasi dengan bergerak sendiri tanpa sepengetahuan anggota lain.Stefanovitch, seorang letnan polisi, bertekad memburu Grave Dancer karena catatan kriminalnya dan juga dendam pribadi.Berasa lagi baca naskah skenario James Bond ga sih?
GreatGreat story took me a little longer to read than usual. Once again Mr Patterson strikes gold . love your books ams characters thank you for being the best.
2.5 Quite disappointed to be perfectly honest. A James Patterson novel with corrupt cops and mobsters? Sounds right up my street but it failed. Stick to his later novels, this is a let down.
I have to say that this is probably the best Patterson mystery that I have read.
However, there was one issue that really bothered me and that was the very first murder.
I don't want to put a huge spoiler into this review because it was a major part of this novel, but it was never really explained.
Who was in on it, everything about it was just left so vague and it was such a big part of the novel that it bothered me.
Still a good mystery and a rather fast read.
I've been a long time fan of James Patterson and have read most everything he has written...with the exception of his earliest novels.
So, I'm trying to go back and read Patterson's earlier books.
I have to say I was very disappointed in The Midnight Club.
Yes, I agree that some of the more recent Alex Cross books haven't been great but at least they kept my interest.I finished The Midnight Club on Friday and am writing this on Monday.
At this point, I'm trying to decide if I am going to listen to this book again before it has to be returned to the library.
Third James Patterson book I have ever read. Good solid police procedural about a policeman who develops a personal vendetta against an amoral kingpin mob boss and works with another police officer to try to bring him down as well as his cronies in the Midnight Club. I thought the first half was excellent (5 stars) but the second half was simply good (3 stars) so ended up with a three star rating. Quick reading suspenseful tale - worth the time.
The book was the first of James Patterson's habit of making short chapters. Each chapter is either about a new character or location. Things happen fast and furious in Petterson's books. The reader usually has to read to the very last page to see the conclusion. This book wasn't quite like that but it took until close to the end to find out.
2.5 stars. Occasionally there are interesting enjoyable pages. Overall there just too many implausible events or situations that were plain annoying to read. Just the concept of an active homicide detective confined to a wheel chair is absurd. Not even close to the read that Along Came A Spider is.
This book was hard to put down, even though the chapter's went from different people but the story was in line though out the book
Piffff... cardboard characters, flat plot, a test of hope over nausea to finish.
very good bood
Kematian St Germain disusul oleh dua kematian bos mafia lain setelahnya, dan puncaknya di Atlantic City, beberapa anggota Club dibantai.
Mereka lah yg bertanggung jawab atas pembunuhan St Germain dan dua bos mafia lain.
Kembalinya St Germain sekaligus untuk membawa Midnight Club berkembang, yg tadinya sindikat kriminal, menjadi perusahaan bisnis internasional yang hendak mengendalikan perekonomian di seluruh dunia, dengan beranggotakan orang2 penting di posisi2 strategis.Stefanovitch, bersama dengan Sarah McGinnis (jurnalis yg sedang menulis topik Midnight Club), dan Isiah Parker, mesti mencari jalan untuk menghancurkan Midnight Club.--O--Setelah selesai membaca, ada dua hal yang masih mengganjal buat saya.
Il resto non mi ha né colpita né entusiasmata.Il libro è datato (fine anni '80) e risente un po' degli stereotipi dell'epoca (mafia, cosa nostra, yakuza e simili sono descritte un po' alla maniera americana) e già questo mi è sembrato...
Quasi uno scivolone.Poi il titolo fa riferimento a questo fantomatico e terribile Club di Mezzanotte e anche i personaggi ne parlano tanto, ma alla fine l'unico che emerge è Alexander St. Germain.
The Midnight Club isn’t anything like the other Patterson novels I’ve read.
Instead of action packed movie like pacing, we have slow and detailed storytelling.
This book wasn’t bad, but it’s not really for me.
I like Patterson books that are always turned up to 11 where you’re on the edge of your seat all the way through.
It was much more of a slow burn and looking back, not a lot happened.
I did quite enjoy some of this book, but I think if I wasn’t reading it to pass the time at work, I might have given up on it.
After John Stefonvitch is shot (leaving him in a wheelchair) and his wife killed by criminal St Germain, he attempts to hunt him down.
St Germain is a member of a secretive crime organisation called The Midnight Club.
Here he crosses paths with Sarah McGuiness, a journalist researching the club, and Isiah Parker, police officer looking for revenge on the death of his brother.This is one of James Patterson's stand alone novels.
I thought it was ok.
It may be good for someone who really loves crime fiction and does not want to commit to a series.
It would be a five, but there are three things I think is a bit overdone or forgettful.
First, a group of criminals from the top all over the world would never have a meeting in person .........all together !
Nope.Second, the hotel would be crawling of bodyguards, so if there are for example 19 dead ....
there should be around another 40 bodyguards lying around and last but not least ........
after Parker got attacked and he realised that the grave dancer is coming after them ......
he would have immedialty called Stefanovitch to warn him !
Nope.Good story anyway !
Stef, a NY cop has been on the hunt for the "Grave Dancer" ever since he left him for dead years ago.
The Grave Dancer is illusive and seems to be hard to track down.In comes Isaiah Parker, a NY detective also out for blood and part of a secret ring of cops.
They are all after the Midnight Club, a select group of gang/drug lords worldwide who run the crime circuits.Will Stef and Isaiah be able to band together to capture the Grave Dancer and bring down the elite Midnight Club?
Granted, I’m emotional as it is being pregnant BUT when he started walking again and wanting to walk again after he met Sarah and he walked to her with the help of a walker despite the odds...I teared up.
Even at the end when he shook his partners hand and they hugged it out after he shot the killer...what a moment, man.
I loved this book so much because of how different it was.
Normally Patterson writes solely murder mysteries but this was more organized crime.
So different.
He’s so brilliant though and he freakin killed it per usual!
He’s my book husband for a reason❤️.
This book was extremely fluffy and to be honest it’s just like any other action cop movie that I’m usually forced to watch haha. I can’t say I hate it as I did read through to the end. If you want something to read where you don’t have to think about it so much and you are not fussed about fancy writing then this one is for you. It’s made me question if I will read any more Patterson books to be honest, although I’ll most likely still take a shot at ‘Odd Thomas’.
This is an early Patterson. It certainly was a suspenseful and well-woven plot about a high level international crime syndicate. However, when it got to the (potential spoiler) "kidnapping" I could not believe that police would have dropped the ball especially for so prominent an author as Sarah and that the FBI was not involved and monitoring all calls. Until then, I believed it. Other than that, some interesting character arcs and satisfying "justice" in the end.
Another amazing book by James Patterson. Very riveting and one that was hard to put down! If you like police thrillers, you will LOVE this! Another amazing book by James Patterson. Very riveting and one that was hard to put down! If you like police thrillers, you will LOVE this!
Must ReadAbsolutely this was one of Me Patterson's books. I have read most of his Alex Cross series plus all 17 of his Woman mystery series. This book was extremely hard to put down...I enjoyed all of the characters. Now I would like to see more with Parker and Stenfowitch partnered up along with Sarah McGinness. Great job!!😌
One of James Paterson’s Best, By FarUnlike the “contrived “ story of The President’s Missing, this was true and realistic suspense from beginning to the end. The theme of the book was realistic, the characters were believable, and the story was filked with excitement until the end.Great book
Stef gets revenge for his wife's murder and his own accident that left him tied to a wheelchair with the help of a beautiful journalist and another cop who was part of the street law hired by St. Germaine.
I thought this book had a very slow start. During which time I would have considered giving it only two stars. The last part of the book kept me interested enough for a 3 star rating. I have to say, I’m not a huge fan of James Patterson, yet I have 3 of his books waiting for me to read.
This has been 1 of the best books that I have ever read. over 500 pages, It kept my interest throughout the book. when I put it down, I was picking it back up to continue. It was big print and a hardcover book. Mr. Patterson kept his chapters short, and that's the way I like them.
