https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862001.The_Clue_of_the_Black_Keys
This is #28 of the Nancy Drew Mystery Series. I re-read it on a whim. I think that it's one of the better Nancy Drew mysteries. Young Professor Terry Scott comes to Nancy with a broken key that was found in Mexico with some stone tablets. The tablet, 2 keys, and another Professor have all disappeared. Terry wants Nancy's help. The story then takes place in the (Black) Florida Keys where Nancy searches for the missing professor and a treasure.
A fun little mystery. It has been YEARS since I last read a Nancy Drew book and it was great to read this story. I liked the treasure hunt aspect and, of course, Nancy and her friends were great characters.
Great Nancy Drew read. Would recommend for a Nancy Drew fan.
It's my first Nancy Drew book and now i'm hooked.... hey that rhymed!
Dark mystery as Nancy Drew travels to Mexico to help solve and international mystery.
An Okish book... though the concept was good I found it too fast paced and Nancy solving everything so easily didn’t strike me as genuine. Some of the the clues she found were hard to believe. Though the plot was good the author could not execute it well.
A 'okay' mystery that gives us some interesting bits of history and scenes in the Florida Keys.What I found fascinating was how despite not being allowed to do anything too action-packed, because she's 'just a girl', or having any actual authority, Nancy is in charge of everyone and everything and seems to keep all the men in her thrall.Her relationship with Ned has a weird almost sexual tension to it that is worthy of the 'Sex in the city' girls.
I love Nancy Drew. I picked this book off my shelf out of nostalgia. Also, after reading Girl Sleuth, I have a new appreciation for the books. And anyway, who wouldn't love a book that uses the word rumpus?
A very strong entry. Nice characters, nice plot, a few exotic locales, Mr. Drew is very good, as usual, and the illustrations of Nancy some of the best, the young sleuth rarely looking better, save the cover illustration, which doesn't look like Nancy at all.
Nancy does some traveling to solve this mystery that involves an archaeological find in Mexico. A fun and exciting story.
If there were a "what are the worst elements of Nancy Drew" bingo card, this one would win.A group of (white) scientists are on an archaeology trip in Mexico, looking for a buried treasure.
Terry and her relative go for help/the cops, and Nancy and Terry and Dr. Pitt are captured by the Tinos and the swindling assholes, and Mrs. Tino has an EVIL TORTURE BRACELET Y'ALL.
The torture isn't to get Nancy to talk; it's to get the guys to talk, and it works.The bad guys take Dr. Pitt to Mexico so he can find the treasure for them.
While reading about a mystery set in the Florida Keys, I learned about the 1950s time period as well.When Terry Scott, a university professor, literally bumps into Nancy Drew one day, he enlists her help in solving a mystery surrounding ancient Mexican empire tablets, holding a mystery involving frogs and obsidian black keys.
Nancy, along with her best pals Bess and George, learn of new details surrounding this mystery and follow various leads and clues, only to find their detective work must continue in Florida.
Actual torture happens in this one. Well… As torture-y as anything can be in a Nancy Drew. By far one of the more menacing stories from the original series. Nancy gets caught up in another mystery, this time with a handsome your college professor. Juarez Tina (yeah.. That’s his name) and his band of miscreant’s will stop at nothing to find the treasure. kidnapping, deliberate car wrecks, intentional fires, and narrowly escaping death - it’s all just another day in the life of a girl detective.
"The Clue of The Black Keys" was a thrilling edition to the Nancy Drew Mysteries! I learned many things that I didn't know about Indians and Aztecs, and also that even when the going gets tough, hard work and determination are vital keys to achieving success!
First time ever reading a Nancy Drew book but was happy to join Sally from Mad Men (S04E09) in it. I can see why young girls love these books. I feel like if I had a daughter I would love reading them with her.
I am reading these Nancy drew books towards a challenge to read all Nancy drew originals. this is somewhat a later book in nancy drew series and hence lack the charm.I didnt like the book much and this could be easily avoided
Very exciting! 3 black glass keys, travel to the Florida Keys, and tons of Ned and Nancy relationship talk from others. oh bother! A young professor leaves an impression on Bess. Nancy makes new friends while Bess and George stay home.
Can't beat a good, nostalgic Nancy Drew when I'm in need of a quick read! I'm pretty sure I've read this at some point before in my life, because bits of it sounded familiar, but I'd forgotten enough of it that it was still fun to read over the past few days. Can't complain!
The excitement never ends!
This was a very action packed Nancy Drew book. I loved it! Definitely worth the read if you enjoy Nancy Drew!
I like mysteries.
I felt like it was a bit ridiculous or far-fetched at some times but was overall entertaining.
Wonderful readLove the adventure and thrills. While reading, each chapter stimulates the mind, its like you can see what is happening while you read
For example, while we frequently know Connie Blair's thoughts, including conflicting emotions such as when she longs to do one thing while another part of her feels she must do something else; rarely are we allowed inside Nancy's head.
3. Nancy has aroused the anger of some dangerous people and there is a real threat to her safety even when she is at home--and Dad takes off while she is away without telling her and without telling anyone where he is going, why or for how long.
Football quarter back and fraternity member Ned lives in celibate longing for Nancy (who rarely calls or visits.)15.
great book
The Clue of the Black Keys  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 28th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. When Nancy Drew is asked to find a missing college professor, she is drawn into a mystery involving three black keys. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less than a mile from our house. Like most young girls of a certain age (ahem), my love for mysteries started
When Nancy Drew is asked to find a missing college professor, she is drawn into a mystery involving three black keys.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
The author , Carolyn Keene , keeps you in suspense throughout the WHOLE book .
Nancy Drew , an amateur detective , is a mystery-solving , butt-kicking , 18 year old daughter of a criminal lawyer .
These books are going to change the outlook of everything you take upon in the future .
All 174 pages of the 28th book in the Nancy Drew series , which contains 56 novels , are going to blow your mind with the exquisite detail put in every sentence .
I recommend that you should read this book , and every other Nancy Drew titled book !
This is one of her old Nancy Drew books that we found in one of my dad's storage buildings a while ago.
Having grown up with the Hardy Boys, I wanted to also read some of Ms. Drew's adventures.
They are just as fun.This one takes Nancy on a trip to find ancient treasure and dastardly villains while on the search for a missing professor.
There is danger at every turn, but our spunky young detective will not be swayed from her goal.Like I said, this is a fun read.
Simple adventure at its best.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew.
It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain.
Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy.
No brains.
To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation.
Carolyn Keene wrote just for me!
That is how I felt.
When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ...
I also loved the Hardy Boys.
No wonder I loved these series.Great for girls aged 8 and up.
Oh boy. These guys have these keys in order to unlock a treasure chest. When they find it it's full of little silver frogs, one of which contains a powder that is either a deadly herb or a restorative herb. (What with the sculptures full of magic potions that never expire?) Nancy goes to the Florida Keys and Mexico, neither of which are close to one another and the whole Florida Key thing is a strange diversion.Nancy loses consciousness when one of the bad guys takes down a road construction sign and she crashes into a ditch.
