https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/844244.Fattypuffs_and_Thinifers
Can I describe this as a geopolitical children’s book with an eventual message of peace and reconciliation?The idea is that two squabbling brothers, one fat and one thin, discover an underground world divided into two states, that of the plump Fattypuffs and that of the scrawny Thinifers.
Ultimately the two warring nations are able to begin to reconcile and unify which offers the promise of a less fractious relationship between the two brothers who return to our surface world.Apparently Maurois was from an Alsatian family.
این کتاب منو غافلگیر کرد!به اسم خپلالسلطنهها و لندوکالدولهها نمیخورد که این همه فکر پشتش باشه، این همه (نمیدونم چطور بگم راستش) واقعی باشه! این وضعیتِ دستهبندی شدن مردم و درگیری دوتا کشور و مردمش به خاطر یه چیز جزئی دقیقا همین دنیای خودمونه، حتی بعضی وقتا حس میکردم به راحتی میشه اسم خپلالسلطنهها و لندوکالدولهها با کشورهای مختلف عوض کرد و به اسم تاریخ واقعی دنیای خودمون در موردش حرف زد. این کتابو بخونین، حتی هدیه بدین به بچههایی که میشناسین، ممکنه خیلی تاثیرگذار باشه براشون.ممنون که ریویو رو خوند
این کتاب منو غافلگیر کرد!به اسم خپل‌السلطنه‌ها و لندوک‌الدوله‌ها نمی‌خورد که این همه فکر پشتش باشه، این همه (نمیدونم چطور بگم راستش) واقعی باشه! این وضعیتِ دسته‌بندی شدن مردم و درگیری دوتا کشور و مردمش به خاطر یه چیز جزئی دقیقا همین دنیای خودمونه، حتی بعضی وقتا حس می‌کردم به راحتی میشه اسم خپل‌السلطنه‌ها و لندوک‌الدوله‌ها با کشورهای مختلف عوض کرد و به اسم تاریخ واقعی دنیای خودمون در موردش حرف زد. این کتابو بخونین، حتی هدیه بدین به بچه‌هایی که می‌شناسین، ممکنه خیلی تاثیرگذار باشه براشون.ممنون که ریویو رو خوندین و شرمنده که اینقدر عجله ای و کوتاه بود.
ﺧﯿﻠﯽ ﮐﺘﺎﺏ ﮐﯿﻮﺗﯽ ﺑﻮﺩ :))))ﮐﺎﺭ ﻣﺘﺮﺟﻢ ﻫﻢ ﺗﻮ ﺗﺮﺟﻤﻪ ﮐﺮﺩﻥ ﺍﺳﻢ ﻫﺎ ﻋﺎﻟﯽ ﺑﻮﺩ. ﺣﺘﯽ ﺑﻬﺘﺮ ﺍﺯﺧﻮﺩ ﺍﺳﻢ ﻫﺎﯼ ﺍﻧﮕﻠﯿﺴﯽ ﺑﻮﺩ :ﺩﯼ
Fattypuffs and Thinfers by André Maurois was one my my father's favorite childhood books. He passed that love on to me. It's a middle-grade chapter book from the early 1940s and always reminded me a little of the Phantom Tollbooth, no idea why.
One of my favourite books that I read as a child was Fattypuffs and Thinifers by Andre Maurois.
Thinking about this book evokes some fantastic childhood memories of sitting up under the bed sheets and reading by torchlight with my brother, while scoffing midnight snacks.
Maurois' lavish descriptions and satirical humour had us enthralled and helped stimulate my passion for reading.
The fattypuffs inhabit a land where everything is large and round, where food is plentiful and the inhabitants are warm-hearted and love cakes and treats.
The fattypuffs and thinifers duke it out in a war for supremacy, eventually signing a peace treaty and agreeing to live side by side.

Read this when young, from a copy owned by a neighbor whose parents were highly-educated Brits. Was trying (and failing) to come up with the title recently, but just now a Goodreads friend has happened to "like" a review of what must certainly be the correct book.Apparently -- and obviously, in retrospect -- this is an anti-war allegory, which completely passed over my head. I was not a particularly noticing sort of child.
فکر کنم بیش از اونکه از داستان لذت بردم، از ترجمه ی خلاقانه و فوق العادش لذت برده باشم!داستان در عین فانتزی بودن، کلیشه ای بودن حتی اما بسیار خلاقانه و طنز بسیار جذابی داشتممنون از نشر پریان و انتخاب مترجم خوبش
Çocukken tekrar tekrar okuyup çok sevdiğim bayıldığım bir macera olmuştu. Şimdi de eğlenceli bir okuma oldu benim için, tatlı bir anı :)
This is such a book for its rather clever story that still has relevant messages today and its outstanding illustrations.Basically its the story of 2 boys, 1 fat and 1 thin who find a tunnel that leads them off to an underground world peopled by 2 distinct cultures of the Fattypuffs and the Thinifers.
It's a very clever story about mans intolerance to man and how opening the mind to new ways and ideas helps to break down barriers.The wonderful illustrations of Raymond Briggs (best known for things like Fungus The Bogeyman & The Snowman) and Fritz Wegner show scenes of both Fattypuff & Thinifer life and culture wonderfully.
When brothers Edward and Terry find a staircase leading down between two rocks little do they know the adventure they are about to embark on.
The brothers are separated, for you see Edward is a bit on the plump side and Terry is as thin as a rake and through no choice of their own they are drawn into war between the two camps.
One that the boys are determined to resolve as amicably as possible.A great adventure story about peace, love, understanding and equality.
I would recommend this book to a confident reader in KS2, it could also be used as a theme book when looking at issues of equality.
One of my all-time favorite books as a kid. I took it out of the library so many times, that my mom found me a first edition copy from 1968. F&T is farcical, irreverent, and simplistic in its manner of commenting on post-great war Europe, as well as family values, self-image issues, and international politics. Maurois' vision of things to come is startling. Perfect for kids with its silly happy-fat vs. miserable-thin war and perfect for adults who can examine the true-to-life subtext, all while reading a too-short and much loved classic.
I loved this book as a child, and for some reason I was thinking about it tonight so I looked it up on Goodreads. I suppose the story of the strife between two societies, one plump & fond of food and one thin & fond of exercise is as relevant now as it was in 1930. I really must look up a copy so I can re-read it! Its one of those books that has left a permanent impression on me.
Siskolar ve Siskalar!!!
Ülkü Tamer tarafından Türkçe çevirisi sadece akıcılığı için bile okunur.
Read this while at Primary school and it still sticks in my head. Will have to get hold of a copy to re-read.
I wanted something I could read quickly and the cover looked interesting.Initial ThoughtsAfter the two boys descend the stairs into a world where people are divided based on weight, it becomes clear that this is a political satire.
While I originally thought the two countries were meant to represent Japan and South Korea, there was later mention of United States of the Underground and an iron curtain.
If you're wanting something light and fluffy that doesn't make you think, this is not the book for you.Rating2 out of 5 stars.It wasn't a bad book, it just wasn't a book that matched what I wanted to read when I first picked it up.
A wonderful old-fashioned and yet highly relevant children's story about two brothers (one thin, one fat) finding a way underground to land divided in two - into a country of Fattypuffs and Thinifers.This is cleverly written, with a child reading able to see the two sides of the story told by one or the other 'side' that differ slightly in their telling of battles, old grievances and differences.
At only around 100 pages, this is a short chapter read for confident readers, though the ideas in it are best suited to over 7s.The stereotypes of thin and fat people are well used here, with some great ideas for how the two 'types' differ in their attitudes, routines and personalities.
Fattypuffs and Thinifers is a wonderful book about two brothers, one fat and one thin, who discover a hidden world beneath the surface of the earth.
Larger people are Fattypuffs and live separately to the Thinifers, who are workaholics who "eat to live not live to eat".
The two brothers from the surface are separated when they arrive in this country and set off on individual adventures.
Terry, on the other hand, sets off on a ship to Thiniville and gets to know some of the Thinifers who exercise and work relentlessly while eating very little.
A children’s fantasy first published in 1930, this book tells of two brothers, the thin Terry and the plump Edward, who descend into an underground world.
There, two opposing nations – one fat, fun-loving and easy-going, the other thin, acerbic, and disciplinarian – make war on one another.It’s an imaginative and well-told tale, with funny characters like President Rugifer, who insults everyone twice, and King Plumpapuff, who takes a nap every half hour.
Of course, peace is restored at the end, not through any particular actions of the surface brothers.
Two brothers stumble across a strange underground land which is at war.
One nation being made up of fat and lazy people the other of thin, miserly people.Although decently written the more i think about it the less good it looks.
First the level of death and destruction which seems odd for a children's book of this sort.
Second the protagonists really have no influence on the course of events and finally in a story with too such extreme elements the logical conclusion is the emergence of a happy medium but from what i can recall that doesn't happen.Overall its ok but i have no idea what the author's point was or what he was aiming to achieve with it.
Ok so I was a less than mediocre french student. When I have been in France and attempted to speak, people look at me as if I were an insane Albanian. No matter, I did read this book about a land of fat people and a land of skinny people with characteristcs associated with their physical condition and who blundered into wars. A thinly veiled reference to the French and the Germans. This book is very funny, a french Gulliver Isles.
An adorable little satire with two message that are just as relevant now as they were almost a hundred years ago. Firstly not to judge by appearance and secondly that Europe is stronger together than divided. Sigh. There's always a recipe for choux buns in the back if the thought of Brexit makes you weep after reading this.
This was a terrible book that reinforced fat-shaming and a variety of body image issues... and yet I love it. When I was little, reading about the escalator in the park that would take you to a subterranean ocean was *real*. The illustrations were loose and playful, and the characters were expressive. I really regret giving it away.
What's your reason for hating someone else? What if that person were your own brother? Could you still hate him? Or would you want to find a road to peace? This book is as relevant in modern America as it was when it was written in France in 1930. I loved this book as a child, and I love it still, having just read it to my daughter as a bedtime read.
This book was really great. I finished it in one sitting. Though it is a children's book I think every teenager and adult should read this. It may give them an insight that everyone is equal. :) And also that everyone should be compassionate. I see the book is quite underrated. The translation used in the Vintage Edition was quite good. Loved Edmund and Terry and their bonding.
I was hoping for more. This suffered from a case of the "cutes" - tried too hard and seemed rather too silly. It started out well but seemed to belabor it's points. It's short - that's a plus. It's readable and the story does move along at a brisk pace. Perhaps I'm being a bit harsh, I'm sure that children of a certain age may enjoy this - but it's no "Phantom Tollbooth."
I thought the language was a bit demanding for my 8yo, but he seemed to enjoy it. He over-identified with the Fattypuffs, which sort of put the message of peace and understanding out of the running. Good fun, and excellent illustrations anyway.
I do love finding a great book I've never heard of, especially a French classic as fun and clever as this one. Fattypuffs and Thinifers manages to combine a fun story with a political message.http://astrongbeliefinwicker.blogspot...
Can't remember too much about it, but it left an impression on me because I've spent years periodically searching Google with nothing but an image of the cover and a sort of story outline in my head to work with, and today I finally found out what the book is called. Now, finally, I can rest.
