https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184373.Fascism
On the other hand, the Communist Party embraced a theory called "social fascism" which declared war on the social democrats.
The end of capitalism, accompanied with a working class revolution, was expected and social democracy was identified as the main enemy of the communists.
Trotsky disagrees with this and brings up the Paris Commune of 1871 as an example of the middle class siding with the proletariat.According to Marxist doctrine, the most developed capitalist country is supposed to be the first country to have a proletarian revolution.
A brief collection of some of Trotsky's important letters and articles regarding fascism, this pamphlet offers a brief introduction to the nature of fascism, the conditions that give rise to it, and the strategy of resisting it through a "united front." Based on his observations of the growth of National Socialism (i.e. fascism) in Italy, Germany, Spain, and France, Trotsky concludes that fascism is a mass movement based primarily in petite bourgeoisie and backed by the big capitalist powers.
Whole thing available for free athttps://www.marxists.org/archive/trot...From The Workers Militia and its Opponents mentions "Liberalism has always said to the workers that by their class struggle they 'provoke' the reaction." and "If the oppressed do not balk, the oppressors will not be obliged to beat them" which sounds like the same kind of gaslighting our culture enacts against african americans who speak out (kneeling during the pledge, getting shot because they wear a hoodie, reaction against BLM, etc). I like how this section breaks it down into a tactic and shows how its been used against different groups in different places.
Trotsky further places blame on the rise of Fascism in Germany on the German Communists; arguing that Fascism was a result of the German Communists failing to create a United Front with the German Social Democrats (SPD).
It is easy to read and Dimitrov really understands his subject matter.Lastly, Trotsky argument that it was the German communists who were responsible for allowing the rise of fascism by their failure to create a United Front with the Social Democrats is ridiculous.
Under such conditions it is self-evident; it was the German Social Democrats who refused to form a United Front with the Communists and not the other way around.
If this is all that Trosky has to say on fascism then he is the bigest joke of marxism.
He dose not deal with the ideology, the history and context of it s emergence, the relation with socialism, sindicalism and even communism from whom fascism had a productiv borowing; insted Trosky gives us a fairy tale with the characters named: bourgoise, petty bourgoise, proletarians, stupuid social dems and stalinists and fascists.
And as an interesting observation: Trosky blames the parlamentary an conservative attitude of the communism for the victory of fascism...
but was not this attitude promoted by Lenin in his left wing communism...
Fascism, in these historical instances, arises on the basis of the impending collapse of capitalism and the ensuing mobilization of the petty bourgeoisie in order to ruthlessly suppress class antagonisms and artificially sustain the crisis-addled corpse of the bourgeois order.In both instances, this was also coupled with the repeated failures of the revolutionary left, and the defection of the demoralized petty bourgeoisie to the side of order and police state rule as a result of its anger at both the "left" parties incapable of seizing power and the parties that openly represented the interests of the major capitalists within the country.
This went from having an open discussion to forming a workers' militia in about a hour.
Firstly, a social crisis which sends the middle class into disarray, and secondly, the lack of a genuine worker's party to be the "vanguard of workers." According to Trotsky the failure and fecklessness of the Communist Party in Germany provided cover for fascism to emerge and attract workers.
To get a good sense of how we ended up where we are right now with Trump in the White House and the ascendency of the alt-right and the devastation of the middle and working classes under both Democrats and Republicans, read this.
You can look at history and pinpoint the events from the 80's onward that created the milieu for our current situation.
An excellent and useful text collecting excerpts from Trotsky's published works and letters, outlining the main points needed to understand the phenomenon of fascism and to combat it before it fully gets its grips into the fabric of a nation.Trotsky had learned from the rise of Mussolini in Italy and could see the same thing happening in Germany, predicting the unfolding disaster while others turned a blind eye.Only a strong working class movement combating fascists on the streets can stop their movement taking hold!
I have my doubts whether he wouldn't have been even worse than Stalin had he been given the chance.In this collection of letters, Trotsky talks about the origins and the dynamics of fascism and presents a strategy for defeating it.
It hinges on the Marxist class theory, a theory that is deeply flawed already and that Trotsky somehow managed to ruin even further.
Marx' theory of history as a series of consecutive class struggles concluding in a socialist (or communist, depending on who you ask) utopia has evidently been refuted.
The reaction of fascism by Trotsky is attributed to the petty bourgeois class as a form of revolutionary despair, where capitalism enters a crisis of growth (or decay) and is met with either the inability of the revolutionary class to exploit this opportunity or the closing of ranks of the bourgeois, who will use fascism as a counterweight against a potential rise of the proletariat or to diminish the democratic state in their favor.
In our current political climate things are getting so divisive that it’s much too common to label people as either fascists on the right or I-don’t-know-whats on the left.
The former part is a bit of a letdown as Trotsky characterizes Fascism as a phenomenon that started in Italy, is petty-bourgeois in nature and that it happens as a hijacking by the right when the left is unable to fully take power in a revolution.
What Trotsky does not do is discuss characteristics of fascism specifically, what are some of its goals, what are its policies, and how are they different from communism.
Especially the part mentioning weak parties putting forth "lesser evil" candidates.
More relevant passages such as: We may set it down as a historical law: fascism was able to conquer only in those countries where the conservative labor parties prevented the proletariat from utilizing the revolutionary situation and seizing power.
As a political pamphlet it does its job but it reads like one.
I could recommend this if you like politics especially something that may have a few eerie parallels to the current situation in it.
This is more of a pamphlet than a book, but it does its job well.
Trotsky sets out to analyse the rise of fascism in both Germany and Italy, after the failed revolutions there, and he does his job well.
He analyses everything well, comes to the right issues and tries to answer them to the best of his knowledge, but fails in the end (although only in the end).
Trotsky, a self-proclaimed dialectician, betrays dialectics in the end when he answers the title of the book.
But it is nevertheless an informative booklet/pamphlet or whatever else you will call it.
Pretty solid for a short pamphlet.
Trotsky definitely had a way with words.
Obviously primarily concerned with fascism & its rise at the time, he also makes time for liberals, petite bourgeoisie, big bourgeoisie, & anyone who would call themselves allies to workers & betray them politically.
He briefly talks about the failings of various communist parties as well as the failure of that in Russia in either consolidating power with bourgeoisie via bureaucracy or slipping into fascism.
It definitely can make one cautious of & concerned about fascist seeds in the current political climate & society in the United States.
Short read but packs a punch.
Almoust nothing has changed sence the writing of this book. Only diference to today is that there is no workers uprisings that the fascist are exploiting. Only problem is the advise to form workers militias to combat fascim. The current antifa is terrorising enough whit out rifles.
https://www.marxists.org/archive/trot...
Fascism is the product of the petit bourgeois (middle class) and comes to power when capitalism is in crisis. Trotsky knew this nearly a century ago. The media doesn't know it today.
Unfortunately, not an analysis for beginners, which is what I was hoping for.
Another strangely topical text on the fight against fascism. Trotsky roots his theory of facing off against fascism upon the real struggles against fascism gripping Europe in the years it was rising and risen. Again baffling to see how much history can rhyme, and how so many of the responses to contemporary events mirror the same failed responses in the past.
I liked it. I had to re-read a lot of the sections and even paragraphs multiple times to understand. I really wanted to comprehend the selections for this small guide. I admit it was tough for me but I'm glad I read it. I think the book is apropos to current political climate and I get that Leon Trotsky was fighting fascism to defend communism but I think the points he made on what fascism is and how to fight it pretty clear.
For Fightback reading group
A collection of essays written by Trotsky on the growing trend of fascism in Europe in Italy and Germany, the political implications of it, and how it relates to Trotsky's vision for a greater Marxist revolution. Trotsky focuses primarily on the German Marxist Revolution, but touches on the communists in Poland was well.The collection was interesting, but too short. He only touches the surfaces of all the issues he brings up.
A reminder that the fight against fascism is a political struggle as well as a military one. Required reading especially as the term fascism is lobbed about after the Trump election, and many liberal apologists for (neoliberal/multicultural) capitalism claim "antifascism". The fight against fascism must ultimately be a fight for workers power.
Interesting I found Trotsky's book very interesting, and his views were true to what he believed. However, I personally disagree with his view on capitalism. A must read for people who want to understand the true roots of communism, not Stalin's brand of communism.
He wanted to be inferred Nazi-fascist such as placing paved indulge in too much, but it's good to communicate has ideas to some extent .. predicted the war and fate of the "German Hitler" before it happens.
An interesting polemic examining the origin of fascism as an alliance between the bourgeoisie and the lumpenproletariat against the (progressive) forces of proletarian revolutionaries. Trotsky's text is somewhat vague at times and the prose is sometimes dry.
Short collection of essays from his lifetime published posthumously. Interesting perspective particularly as it relates to what was happening in Germany.
A must read for Anti-fascists <3
Review/criticism forthcoming.
