https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/155421.Something_from_the_Nightside
How much, to go back into the Nightside?p.13 ...compared to what was waiting for me back in the Nightside, her anger, and implied threats were nothing.p.14 You know the Nightside.p.15 Let me tell you about the Nightside...The Nightside is a square mile of city streets and back alleys in the centre of the city, linking slums and tenements that were old when the last century was new...In practice, the Nightside is much bigger than that...there are those who say the Nightside is actually bigger than the city that surrounds it...It's always night in the Nightside...You can buy or sell anything in the Nightside...p.16 You can find anything in the Nightside, if it doesn't find you first.p.19 My name is John Taylor.
Actual rating: 2.5254896 stars. 2.224896 stars. My Nefarious Daughter Elena was kind enough to point out I had been overly generous with my original rating (must be the revoltingly disgusting Christmas Spirit getting to me), ergo I most obligingly lowered it and stuff.You’d think that Noir + Urban Fantasy would = YUM, right? Wrong. As scrumptious as this could and should have been, it wasn’t. Why? Because: It’s all clichéd as fish.I love Noir Fiction (and happen to think all things Dashiell Hamm
Because:① It’s all clichéd as fish.I love Noir Fiction (and happen to think all things Dashiell Hammett are slightly hot, just so you know) and don’t usually mind the delightfully delightful tropes that plague the genre, since they kinda sorta come with the territory and stuff.
Urban Fantasy doesn’t get much better than my Maledictions-smoking boyfriend’s fun-filled adventures Downtown, if you ask me.➽ And the moral of this Yes and Yeah and Yay I Just Got Another Series Off Of My TBR Shelf Go Me And Stuff Crappy Non Review (YAYAYIJGASOOMTSGMASCNR™) is: the only character I liked in this book was mercilessly killed dead.
Very good, I really liked the characters and the world. Similar feel to Dresden Files. Will buy more!
After five years in London, John Taylor gets drawn back into the machinations of the Nightside when Joanna Barrett hires him to find her daughter.
The trail takes him all over the Nightside and nothing is ever as it first seems...I've had this on my bookcase for over a year and I finally gave it a read on vacation.
I like that Taylor is far from being a superhero and actually not very brave.
The supporting characters are good, not cardboard like many secondary characters in books of this type.
The one that really stands out is a cameo by Michael Moorcock's Jerry Cornelius.Not a bad read.
This book was the worst example of telling, not showing, I've ever read.
To illustrate this point, the phrase "...in the Nightside" appears 69 times, according to my count.
If I had just counted "the Nightside," it would have been probably upwards of 200.
The book had a humorous tone, but it didn't have any truly funny parts.
"Anything can happen, here in the Nightside.
All of your missing socks are here, in the Nightside.
In the Nightside, no one checks their blind spots.
No manufacturer coupons are doubled, in the Nightside.
Here in the Nightside, there is no Target, only Walmart."
John Taylor is not a private detective per se, but he has a knack for finding lost things.
That's why he's been hired to descend into the Nightside, an otherworldly realm in the center of London where fantasy and reality share renting space and the sun never shines"I love this series.
John Taylor is the relatively normal one (which isn't saying much) in a world filled with otherworldly creatures, where reality is ever-changing and magic abounds.
No matter the scope of mystery or impending apocalypse, Taylor finds himself not only in the middle of it, but usually the pivotal character who will determine who rules the Nightside.
If you like your urban fantasy/occult detective novel with a touch of the horrific, then The Nightside books are up your alley.
John Taylor is a wanted man in the Nightside, and has sworn not to go back.
It's John Taylor.
Taylor goes to the future long enough to see that it's not what any of us want, especially me (read the book and you'll find out why.
There are some strange and unsettling things happening in the Nightside, and for that reason I would warn a reader.
John Taylor can tell you more than he cares to remember about this place.
Something from the Nightside was just an okay read in my opinion.
Its starts off good-a detective with a gift for finding things takes on a case in which he must locate a rich lady's missing daughter.
All the woman knows is that her daughter is in the Nightside.
My biggest problem is I don't like the descriptions of the Nightside, it seemed like the author tried way to hard to make it seem weird.
I think it may have been creepier with subtle descriptions of the weirdness.
I'll eventually read the next book because there is a part of the story that caught my interest.
I can't continue a book where all I want is gritting my teeth in annoyance when I read itStrike One: Alien Abductees.
Alien is so last decade.
I'm truly sorry, but anything with alien abductees thingy is not my thing.Strike Two: Our hero, John, is supposed to be well-known in the Nightside and his name scared some people's too.
Not when the damsel mistaken John for her savior when all John does is cowering in fear.Strike Three: All these words of in the Nightside/to the Nightside/the Nightside combination.
Sorry John, you're not the hero I'd like to read more about...
The book is told from a first person point of view, that of John Taylor who is nearing thirty years old.
You see, John Taylor can find anything and anyone, even if they don’t want to be found.
He was forced to flee The Nightside, a pocket Dimention in the middle of London, five years ago, by monsters who had hunted him since he was a child.
But, when Joanna Barrett turns up at his decrepit little office, begging for his help to find her lost daughter, Cathy, John Taylor decides it is time to go back to the Nightside.
So here are the strengths:Interesting world descriptionsInteresting take on the supernatural and the creepyPlot driven (if you like this sort of think)Would make a decent movieThe writing is descriptive in such a way that the reader can imagine the scenery.
The book is short, I listened to the narration and it lasted just under 6 hours at regular speed.
Ultimately, though, I felt like the story was strung together by witty observations and comments, detailed descriptions and some fight/flight scenes.
I likely will not be reading the next book in the series.
While this is not "my" first Nightside book, it is "the" first Night Side book.
What's the Nightside?
Good question, it's the dark heart of London...except it has apparently existed longer than the city itself.
It's where all the dark, dangerous, magic "stuff" goes and "lives" or "exists" as some of the things walking, working, and "functioning" there aren't actually, "alive".
Somehow though it's a square mile in the heart of London, it seems to be bigger than entire city itself....If you go there, watch yourself.This is the story that introed John and the Nightside and it's a good story.
This book is written like an old-school down-on-his-luck PI mystery, complete with the rich dame that waltzes into the private eye's life desparately seeking his help.
The book comes off as a script for a movie more than a novel - it is visually interesting and action packed, but there is very little character development.
I was also a little peaved that John suddenly had an extra power the reader didn't know anything about just in the nick of time at the end of the story - I found that conclusion lazy on the part of the writer.
Something from the Nightside is the introduction to John Taylor, the man who can find anything and anyone.
Green is adept at creating likable non-heroes.
The men and women of the Nightside (including John Taylor) work within dark spaces, committing grey acts that are ultimately for the greater good.
And when a hard yet vulnerable woman needs help finding her daughter, John's softer side can't help but respond.The universe Green creates is unique, imaginative and twisted; the characters doubly so.
The promised thrills and dangers lurking in the shadows will bring me back to the Nightside for more.
Dreams can come true, in the Nightside. Everyone knows that.But they still vanish when you wake up.Brilliant! Don't miss it!
Only thing wrong with this book is that it's a very quick read. The storytelling was expertly written engaging me interest all the way to the end. I hadn't realised how quickly I had read it.Going to read the others in this series.
Something from the Nightside’s main character is John Taylor.
John Taylor has a serious reputation in the Nightside and he thought he had left that world behind years ago.
I understand it is the private eye noir style he is going for, but at times I just want him to stop the constant reaffirmation of the Nightside’s weirdness.
I get it, the Nightside is a creepy, weird and scary place, please move on with the story.
Hopefully being the first in a series, the setting is now established and we can move on from having to say what's "in the Nightside" all the time.
This book starts off as a poor man's Harry Dresden but ends up like a bad episode of Dr. Who.
John Taylor, private eye, starts as the most stereotypical private eye ever.
Did you know John Taylor left the Nightside 5 years ago?
If you read this book your answer will be "yes." It is yes because Simon Green mentions facts like these IN EVERY CHAPTER.
He is not great at foreshadowing and the book often comes off feeling like it thinks that it is more clever than it actually is.
That being said, there are like 20 of these books.
This starts out like how I would think an typical old detective mystery movie would start.
After closing time, the detective is in his office ( I pictured that old frosted glass from the black and white films), he's a down on his luck, up to his eyeballs in debt type, living on the couch there in his workspace...when he hears the sound of a woman's footsteps approaching.
I liked it but I didn't love it.
Though I will definitely read the next one - I'm not going dying to read it RIGHT NOW, so who knows when I'll get to it.
Know what I mean?
I did like how short and sweet the book was though.
It definitely shows promise.
SOMETHING FROM THE NIGHTSIDE – VGSimon R. Green – 1st in mystery/fantasy seriesJohn Taylor, in search of a runaway girl, was born in Nightside, an area of London “where it’s always 3 a.m. Where you can walk beside myths and drink with monsters. Where nothing is what it seems and everything is possible.” I loved this book. Green writes with a Raymond Chandler-esq voice while creating a dark world of unique characters.
اون قدر که باید برام جذاب نبود. زیادی تخیلیش کرده بود. یه جورایی آشفتگی فانتزی داشت. خیلی داستان خوبی بود ولی آدم گیج و سردرگم می شد از بس فانتزی به خورد آدم می داد!ترجمه شده چاپی رو خوندم. فارسی روون و خوبی داشت ولی آخراش حس می کنم یه کم با عجله ترجمه شده بود. نمیدونم شایدم حسم بیخوده :-D
London's underworld. Many different, strange characters, all of them dull. Including the main character, who is but a parody of the film noir detective. I love the supernatural, but this is just really boring, despite the strange new underworld it promises.
There's nothing quite like the nightside novels. Green has created an entertainingly dark alter-world that just makes sense...FUN story - can't wait to read others in this series... if you haven't tried the Nightside novels, you're missing out.
(Though death would not have been a guarantee he would have been unable to continue his narration, as the Powers of Detection story showed.) :) (hide spoiler)]At the end of this chapter, I took one deep, almost gasping breath, and realized I couldn't remember breathing over the last few pages.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[With John's mother is rumored to be returning, Cathy wanting to become Taylor's secretary, and Taylor's stay in the Nightside indeterminate, I really can't wait to read the next book in this series!
(hide spoiler)] I've also added this first book to my to-buy shelf, and will likely end up adding the rest of the series, too.
listening to a man try to create the voice of an upper class lady was more hilarious than successful).I loved the characters, they all have creative and interesting names (well those from the nightside) and fascinating back stories, I wouldn't mine learning more about Sally Shooter's & Johns History!
Green has a vivid imagination and looks like he put all his crazy, fantastic and sometimes horrid ideas all in the one place, the nightside.
From the sounds of it, nightside is similar to a drug (except of course it's actually a place) its addictive, makes you feel alive and vibrant but bad for your health.
Or too terribly ripped off.And I did hate it.However, I kept reading it hoping that I was missing something.To me, it seemed like this was the first book (or series) that Green wrote but didn't have it published until after he was established, giving fans more or something.I got sick of the repeated phrases because, well, I am a smart woman and you don't need to tell me that one of the 6 characters in the book is "punk god of the razor" more than once.
I got tired of every trick in the book being IN THIS BOOK.
اما در واقع تخصصم پیدا کردن هر چیز گمشده است.
این استعدادی است که از زمان تولد در «نایت ساید» در وجودم نهفته است.
من «نایت ساید» را مدت‌ها پیش ترک کردم.
خیلی زود فهمیدم دختربچه کجا رفته: نایت ساید، آن شهر دوزخی که زیر لندن واقع شده است.
جایی که همیشه ساعت 3 صبح است.
جایی که هیچ‌چیز آنچه به نظر می‌رسد، نیست، و هر اتفاقی ممکن است بیفتد.
اما یک دختربچه به خطر افتاده، و یک زن به من اعتماد کرده است،‌ پس هیچ انتخابی ندارم...
I just couldn't get into the story and the characters had me rolling my eyes and impatient to move on to something else.I have never been a huge fan of hard-boiled detective novels and the cliches of that genre don't appeal to me in the least.
However I can't get past my annoyance with the characters, the bad cliches and the occasionally ridiculous language.
I can see this book having great appeal for fans of detective novels and "guy" books.
The prose is not bad, the description decent and the if the characters are two-dimensional ...
Many creatures fear him coming back.There were lots of subtle culture references, and also lots of stereotypes, but I've gotta say, I loved the 60's Coke and the casual mention of the 5 Tracy brothers and comments like "the plaque rats go around in pairs cause they're frightened."Lots of strange people in the Nightside, doing lots of strange things.
Probably strangest of all is the Timeslip, where John finds out he causes the end of human civilisation if he goes looking for his mother.It really reminds me of Kolchak: The Night Stalker TV show, from way back.
Mini-Review:I can't believe it took me so long to get into this series! I already got the next audiobook and I can see myself wrapping the whole thing up within a week. Nightside is an interesting place full of unique characters and dangerous quirks. I love it! Can't wait to see what else will pop up and get to know more about JT's origin.
