https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/560958.The_Reign_of_Quantity_and_the_Signs_of_the_Times
Rene Guenon is like the Oswald Spengler of metaphysics. My interest Guenon comes from the fact that he was a huge influence (and one of the most important teachers) on Julius Evola, a fellow traditionalist. "The Reign of Quantity" is written in a very assertive and "no bullshit" manner as if Rene Guenon were the metaphysical prophet of Western decline (and Kali Yuga), which he pretty much is. Due to Rene Guenon's writing "tone", many would probably be put off when immediately reading his work fo
René Guénon is like the Oswald Spengler of metaphysics.
My interest Guénon comes from the fact that he was a huge influence (and one of the most important teachers) on Julius Evola, a fellow traditionalist.
"The Reign of Quantity" is written in a very assertive and "no bullshit" manner as if René Guénon were the metaphysical prophet of Western decline (and Kali Yuga), which he pretty much is.
Due to René Guénon's writing "tone", many would probably be put off when immediately reading his work for the first time, a writer one either "loves" or "hates." My only problem with the work is that a lot of René Guénon's claims are virtually impossible to verify, although I think his general message of the world being on it's final cycle to be correct.
Guénon's prose is fairly typical of the French writing style and thus you must be able to tolerate long run on sentences to enjoy reading the work without it feeling like too much of a chore.The translation is very good and leaves nothing to be desired.
It's even more so when one thinks about him writing this in 1945 and how "prophetic" his insight has proved itself to be when reading it through the "lenses" of today's world.His critique of "scientism" is spot on and his predictions concerning this "scientistic" philosophy have worked themselves out to this day in the very ways he describes.
I found these chapters especially interesting since it felt like I was reading a modern critic here and now in 2015.I emphatically recommend this work.
This is one of the profound books , written by a human , that i ever came across.
Its is usually not easy to follow Guénon specially with a translated book, and more specifically on a complicated subject like this one, so if i may ever advice i would say ( and that is what i done from an advice ) to start first by reading his work " The East and West , then The Crisis of modern world, then perhaps you may be ready to start on The reign of Quantity .
This book has affected me too much to review it, and I'm still digesting it. Remind me to give it a proper review in a year or two.
بلاخره بار دوم خواندن کتاب سیطره کمیت و علائم آخرزمان رنه گنون تمام شد. سنتگرایی در معنای اصیلش به واقع یک دین است. یک جهانبینی کامل که توضیح بسیاری از مشکلات نو و تشریح کیفیات سنت را بهتر از هر تلاش دیگری در خود دارد. حتی نهادهای کلاسیک ادیان به دلیل عدم برخورد نزدیک با جهان نو و به طور مشخصتر مساله پیچیده غرب فکری، به خوبی سنتگرایی جوابگوی مشکلات اخیر نیستند.... سنتگرایی مادامی که از شاخههای دم دستی و غالبا نه چندان آبدار دست چندمی تککتابی و به قول گنون سنتجو خوانده میشود اندیشه ای سخت مشکوک و
بلاخره بار دوم خواندن کتاب سیطره کمیت و علائم آخرزمان رنه گنون تمام شد.
شاید اگر سنت‌گرایی به معنای دقیق‌تر مورد نظر خود گنون یعنی دین‌مداری به نقد و بررسی عالمان آگاه نهادهای رسمی دین هم درآید نتیجه راه‌گشاتر از امروز باشد....
خواندن کتاب سیطره کمیت و علائم آخرزمان رنه گنون - که نام‌ش برای غیرمطلعین سخت فریب‌ناک است - را به همه علاقه‌مندان فلسفه، فلسفه غرب، حکمت، تاریخ، تاریخ ادیان، مطالعات تطبیقی و حتی آن‌ها که از خواندن یک متن پیوسته استخوان‌دار لذت می‌برند توصیه می‌کنم.
بالاخره خوندمش!
A sledgehammer."Le “Règne de la Quantité” a été épuisé avec une rapidité qui m’a surpris""The Reign of Quantity" has been exhausted with a speed that surprised me" - Guénon, Correspondance with A.K. Coomaraswamy - Cairo, 5 february 1946
From the beginning until the end, this book is very intense and intellectually challenging.
Not typical kind of book that only gives you information but it makes you think critically about what happen to us as a being, our purposes and problems in our time (just as he said about his book The Crisis of the Modern World).
Yup, he definitely succeeds in changing my view on how to see the world.
Definitely, this book is like a further reading or explanation on Sayyid Naquīb Al Attās’ view on modern world and his metaphysics is somewhat same as the Sufis view (as far as I concerned).
This was a required reading for my Business Ethics course, and I ended up loving it. Never thinking I would enjoy a philosophy class about Business, I was pleasantly surprised with this, and other selections for the course. At various points throughout numerous debates with mr. Eric, I still pull this text off the shelf. My favorite concept learned from this book is that of  svadharma  And I have cited it in various comp lit courses since!
It was my introduction to perennial wisdom and my never ending love for perennial philosophy.
The book that changed my life, and a recommended starter book for those interested in Guenon.
This book was actually written back in 1945, more than 70 Years has passed this book and the message contained herein is very prophetic.
By the time you get to midway of the book you have moved from the particulars and more precise fine points to the consequences on the culture and history.
It's seems that all what i knew and what i read before was a preparation for this work.If this is your first book of Guenon (like me), prepare yourself for the most eye-opening, life-changing and questions-answering thing you ever read!Despite Guenon's honesty and clarity, this is not an easy fast reading book. It took me more than a month to finish its 40 chapters (each chapter contains only 5 pages) so i can digest the treasure out of each chapter and apply it to the world around me.
A análise geométrica da simbologia do crucifixo é interessante mas é incrível como alguém capaz de traduzir do grego, árabe e hindu tenha tão pouco a adicionar sobre os assuntos que trata. É um livro que se lê exatamente como essas tendências baratas new-age apesar de ser exatamente contra isso que foi escrito.
Brilliant - like all of Guenon's books. This one is especially interesting as it seems to predict the digital age by working from metaphysical principles.
Néhány elvet elkap a szerző, de nagyon elvont, matematikai a stílusa, látszik rajta, hogy köszönőviszonyban sincs a valósággal, valamint a végletekig elitista. Julius Evolát sokkal többe nézem.
To this very day, every single time I return to this book, the overwhelming feeling of depth, intellect, insight, wisdom, and knowledge give me enough fuel to go on for days and sometimes weeks.
I cannot help you by stating anything on the subject matter, for fear of limiting the breadth and spectrum of this book.
I apologize before hand for the lack of high standard of choice of words in the coming sentence, but I have received more "mental hard-ons" from this book that I care to count.
This book, and René 's work in general, easily constitute several of those pivots.
If our contemporaries could see what it is that is guiding them and where they are really going, the modern world would at once cease to exist.
The profane sciences of which the modern world is so proud are really only the degenerate residues of the ancient traditional sciences.
They strive to reduce everything so that the substance of their special point of view becomes no more than the residue of an existence, emptied of all that constituted its essence; thus these pretended sciences, by leaving aside all that is truly essential, prove themselves incapable of furnishing the explanation of anything whatsoever.
For what ails modern Man
Published in 1927 and yet still more relevant than ever!
Reign of Quantity by Rene Guenon (1972)
Монументальный труд. Хотелось бы, что бы больше людей обладали способностью и возможностью с ним ознакомиться.Можно перечитывать по многу раз.
It's a very deep book which I'll have to return on it throughout my life.
