https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13596809-reflected-in-you
If I had custom ordered this book straight from the deepest book desires of my heart, it could not have been any better.Gideon Cross (oooo even his name gives me shivers) and Eva Tramell are one of my TOP favorite book couples ever.
It was absolutely   beautiful   to watch a couple who were just so messed up but who wanted, with every fiber of their beings and every corner of their hearts, to do everything in their power to make their relationship work.
Let me tell you though, in this book, Gideon will test your trust, patience and faith in him to the absolute limit.
but I won’t give you up.”I didn't read this book - I devoured it!If you liked Bared to You, there is no doubt that you are going to totally love Reflected In You. We rejoin Gideon and Eva right where we left them at the end of the first book and the story springs into life immediately and takes you on one of the most emotional and exhausting journeys you’re ever likely to see in erotic fiction.
He loves Eva so much even if he can’t give his feelings words but is scared that he’s going to hurt her and will go to extraordinary lengths to see she is not harmed.
2.5 Stars!!
So here I begin my rant.
I am pissed after reading this book because it merely came upto 10% of what I was expecting it to be..
So this is me going on about it in biker language.
Ok, So let me begin with a little good first, The sex was HOT, Like seriously good and HOT!
But it was SO fucking clingy and I dont even have the right words to say how effing clingy it was It was so like I need to fuck you because I am an insecure person, for both of them.
Ok, So let me begin with a little good first, The sex was HOT, Like seriously good and HOT!
I didn't know one could drag shit like that for 13 bloody chapters..
it didn't even live up to 10% of Bared to You.I could have fitted this whole book into like 5chapters of Entwined with You. Hate it how authors now a days want to drag shit out.
This won't be a greatest hits review. 2.5 stars. I apologize in advance. I actually spent an hour typing out a review, hit post, then decided to scrap the entire thing and start over because I didn't want to subject you all to my extreme ranty side that comes when I am so wrapped up in the negative that I fail to see the positive. The sarcasm was out in full force tonight. There were to be no fun headers or witty scripts. It was just a rant-o-rama with a side of 'fetch me my gun.'Take TWO! Let
I actually spent an hour typing out a review, hit post, then decided to scrap the entire thing and start over because I didn't want to subject you all to my extreme ranty side that comes when I am so wrapped up in the negative that I fail to see the positive.
Dirty talk coupled with dirty sex is always rewarding.Positive Number 4 : I thoroughly enjoyed the middle section of this book.
That is romance lingo 101 - not actually something a MAN would ever say.Negative Number 2 : The story was all over the place.
Español - EnglishEl nombre del libro es totalmente apropiado para Eva y Gideon, ellos reflejan en el
Review posted on 10/16/2012CLICK HERE TO READ MORE REVIEWS AT READING, EATING AND DREAMING I WAS BLAIR WALDORFAt first, I wasn't quite sure how I felt about Reflected in You by Sylvia Day. Honestly, the beginning of this novel drove me crazy.
I strongly recommend this series to adults who like domineering men, wounded characters, and emotional roller coasters.-XOXOREADING, EATING AND DREAMINGWritten on 5/4/2012I really don't like to be negative, but I can't let this go...All I could think about after I finished Bared to You, the first book in the Crossfire series, was how freaking similar Bared to You by Sylvia Day was to the Fifty Shades series by E.L. James.
I feel compelled to read the last half of the book again, to appreciate the way Sylvia Day manipulted the characters and played with the reader’s mind.
(hide spoiler)] However, I was satisfied when I turned the last page; for all intents and purposes it had a conclusive ending, with a little imagination on the reader’s part needing to be thrown in.Once again, Sylvia Day has earned the right to hold the title “Best-Selling Author.” I have no doubt this book is going to be a hit, it certainly was with me.
Our pleasure reflected in each other.Gideon Cross and Eva Tramell, together for less than a month, both seriously broken, are trying to build a relationship.This is the highly anticipated sequel to Bared to You following on the next morning where the first book left off.
In Bared to You Gideon and Eva's relationship, based initially on a strong sexual attraction, didn't seem to move on from there.
And Gideon makes an unexpected confession.This was a far better read for me than Bared to You, ironing out some of the problems that really bugged me about the first book.
RIY starts off where BTY ended, then spends far too much time (the first 2/3rds of the book) just spinning in circles as we learn over and over (and over and over!) just how jealous Eva is, how secretive Gideon is, and how playing head-games to lash out at the other never solves a damn thing.
I enjoyed the hot make up sex, and loved how devoted Gideon was to Eva, but watching these two fight over and over without making any progress got old quickly.
The way she writes, she can put erotica in thrillers if she wanted to.
Those are the only two books of hers that I have read besides Bared to You and Reflected in You. Now on to the books I want to review.
Bared to You is the first in the Crossfire series.Eva Tramell, the main character or heroine in the two books, moved to New York City with a bisexual roommate, Cary Taylor, both from Southern California.
The sex scenes are not and steamy but can be a little different with different positions and different ways and so on and so forth.
Very good books but very repetitive.
Spoiler Free Review3.5 STARS out of 5Genre: Adult Romance Erotica "You know what happens when you run, angel." Gideon nipped my lower lip with his teeth, and then soothed the sting with the caress of his tongue. "I catch you." Gideon Cross is one smooth EVASIVE motherfu**er, this book only solidifies that fact.Reflected in you has Gideon and Eva trying to move forward in a relationship that seems impossible for them to uphold. Their passion for one another is like a Tornado. A Tornado that is un
Gideon Cross is one smooth EVASIVE motherfu**er, this book only solidifies that fact.Reflected in you has Gideon and Eva trying to move forward in a relationship that seems impossible for them to uphold.
Not enough we're together now "happy happy joy joy." Just a bunch of - I love you - Great sex- I need you- More sex- I'm jealous- I want you- A nightmare- A break-up- I need you- Make-up sex- More Jealousy- A break-up- I hate you - Sobbing- False pretenses- Some bird flipping **chuckles** Eva gave the middle finger gesture twice!
I have a true love-hate relationship with this book.
Just finished book one and I seriously cannot wait until October! AH! Gideon and Eva are perfection.
It’s filled with angst, insatiable raw need that’s intense and a love that’s obsessive and exclusive.
Gideon is still keeping his darkness locked up tight, fearing once Eva learns his secrets, “she’ll run like hell.” Adding to this are the self-worth issues they face, each not being able to see what makes them unique enough for someone to really love them.
“He was my drug, and I had no desire to kick the habit.” When it came to Gideon, Eva was more than willing to be devoured.
For Gideon, Eva was his addiction too...
If you're not a fan then get gone.Reflected in You is appropriately named for Gideon and Eva. Reflected in each other is Obsession, Jealousy, Possession, Love, Addiction and Heartbreak.Gideon has STAMINA!
Other characters new and old come into play and maybe we can get side stories on them.
Favorite lines/moments:Gideon woke up ready to conquer the world, and liked to start that domination with me.He was my drug, and I had no desire to kick the habit."You can be good for me, Gideon," I told him softly.
"Could you come watching me?"Me thinking to myself...Fuck Yeah!
"I love you.""I'm obsessed with you, angel.
Can't wait for the final book.Reflected in You is the second book in the Crossfire Series, the first being Bared to You. These books have been compared to Fifty Shades, but they are one thousand times better than those books.
Eva is just as screwed-up as Gideon and she's also wealthy.
The first book set up their story and this book was more about Eva's past history.
I haven't stopped thinking about the book since I read it a few days ago and I'm even thinking of re-reading it.
Sex in a book, sex that I know the author is great at writing to create some serious steam that I need to bring a towelette to wipe off my Nook should NEVER be confusing.
I love a good Alpha Male but there is a line that is crossed in this book, not Crossfire but plain crossed.
I had high hopes for this book I really did.
The feel to it was so off and I don't know if it was how Bared was self published that made it different or that this just was not the book for me.
★★★★★! Reflected in you (book 2). The continuation of Gideon’s and Eva’s epic, spellbinding & addictive story with suspense, challenges, self-discovery and their intense dysfunctional love!   “The only way I’m keeping my hands off her is if I’m dead. Find another way to fix us.”   Best experienced, The Crossfire series is Gideon’s and Eva’s epic love story, both broken, flawed and co-dependent and yet so determined and relentless for their elusive happily-ever after. Follow them through sk
The continuation of Gideon’s and Eva’s epic, spellbinding & addictive story with suspense, challenges, self-discovery and their intense dysfunctional love!
Best experienced, The Crossfire series is Gideon’s and Eva’s epic love story, both broken, flawed and co-dependent and yet so determined and relentless for their elusive happily-ever after.
It’s their journey of self-discovery and fulfillment and about pushing all limits and surrendering it all for love.Books in the Crossfire series must be read in order:Book 1: Bared to YouBook 2: Reflected in YouBook 3: Entwined with YouBook 4: Captivated by YouBook 5: One with YouReflected in you (book 2) picks up right at the ending of book 1.
Six words to describe Gideon: Unforgettable, intense, ruthless, enigmatic, dominant and captivating.
Damn books that make you feel like a yo-yo.
It's so addictive.
And damn you Gideon Cross.
I've fallen for you yet I don't know why.
I hate how big of an asshole you are, I hate how you've treated Eva. I understand this installment, but I have many questions.
All beginning with Corrine.
I.DO.NOT.LIKE.HER.Again this is an old book, I'm behind the times here.
Review will be short and simple.
I'm loving this series, one i'd so recommend to you if you haven't read it yet.
I have no time for more, I have to read on!!
"We were together because we were addicted to each other." If Sylvia Day's Crossfire series were a drug it would be categorized under the same shelf as some of the worlds most potent drugs. My Kindle was nearly glued to my face while reading this book and I could not put it down from the moment I started. Like Gideon Cross, I went hard and fast with this book and needed to read it like I need air to breathe. REFLECTED IN YOU had me completely enthralled and Sylvia Day left me transfixed on Eva
REFLECTED IN YOU had me completely enthralled and Sylvia Day left me transfixed on Eva Trammel and Gideon Cross' turbulent and passionate love story.
If you were a fan of Bared to You, Reflected in You is definitely one book you'll want to get as soon as it hits shelves.I know that Entwined with You will be released in December but I am already dying to find out what the conclusion of Eva and Gideon's relationship will be.
Another "fake" 5-star customer review has been posted on Amazon for this book.
Wow.Here's what I'm referring to: Somehow, a short, very vague "customer" review had been miraculously posted with a glowing rating for the Crossfire series declaring, "Crossfire, better than 50 Shades!", or something like that which put it at a 5-star "customer rating" over the last several weeks during their pre-order bonanza.
Any experiences with the author as a result of my review will also be added to my overall experience of the book and will be reflected in the rating.
We pick up the Eva and Gideon’s intense story right where we left off in Bared to You. They’ve got past some of the Corinne drama, are seeing a therapist jointly due to their abusive pasts, and settled in for the long haul.
Eva and Gideon are not confident in each other unless they’ve pushed the other one to make some over-the-top gesture to control, and consume one another.
It’s the push and pull between Eva and Gideon and their overwhelming desire for one another.
Didn’t we all finish Bared to You thinking we’re going to get answers about his past and behavior in this one?
Gideon knows what Corinne does to Eva: 
The fact that Sylvia Day does such a good job with this is incredibly important, since the sex is such a huge part of interaction between Gideon and Eva. The other part --the part that involves their hearts and minds-- is much messier.It would be easy to say that Gideon is the screwed up one here.
But I also said it seems like not very much happened at the same time.
I don't think I would call it a cliffhanger, but I think it's the beginning of the end of Eva and Gideon's journey.
Well, this one will teach me not to doubt you, Sylvia Day!! Those slow and annoying bits in the first half are completely forgotten and forgiven, and I bow to your authorial splendor! Hold onto your hats, kids, 'cause this one is a bumpy, angsty, lusty, desperate ride. Sylvia Day broke out the magical writing pen for this one. Damn, woman, did you ever!And, a personal plea from me to the Author Goddess: please, PLEASE write Brett Kline's story!! You pushed my 'hot rocker' button, now you must deliver;-)5 Big-Ass, Happy Stars!!!
I don't even know what to say ... speechless ... it was just FABULOUS! Fan-freaking-tabulous!!! I thought I loved Gideon in Bared To You, now I'm in serious love overdrive! Just brilliant ... I will forever be a Sylvia Day fan girl!!
Kitty Angel's review posted on Guilty PleasuresI was awed by Reflected in You. There is no way to put into words the impact Gideon and Eva had on me in this book.
But, in the end, so much love.My emotions were all over while reading Reflected in You. I hated Gideon for how he was treating Eva and making her feel like he was using sex to make up for his short-comings.
You had no idea why Gideon would tell Eva to “wait” when it seemed like all he wanted was to be with Corinne again.
"I have a Gideon fetish"  Yes it's TRUE....I do!! This was my second reading and he was just as yummy!!! "Need your L♥VE.....Need you"  Also TRUE!!!!The story of Gideon and Eva's intensely passionate l♥ve affair continues in Reflected in You. These two deeply wounded souls work together against their demons looking for their happily ever after.... "He'd suffered brutality and violation, just as I had."  ♥"How gorgeous are you."♥"I l♥ved him insanely, needed him like I needed to breathe." "I'd g
Also TRUE!!!!The story of Gideon and Eva's intensely passionate l♥ve affair continues in Reflected in You. These two deeply wounded souls work together against their demons looking for their happily ever after....
There will never be anyone else." (sigh, again!!)Trust and jealousy are an issue for Eva and Gideon, and it has the ugly potential to drive a wedge between them!!!
"Possessiveness without trust is hell." Sometimes secrets can make trust a hard thing to achieve and, Mr Dark & Dangerous has secrets......Eva just needs to have faith in the lovely, gorgeous, loyal man that is Gideon Cross ♥ ♥ ♥
In Reflected in You, Gideon Cross develops into a dangerously powerful and dark alpha male that takes us on an emotionally charged ride with Eva. Sylvia Day could have written Gideon as the popular generic cliche - the sexy, rich "Christian Grey" character with lots of power and kink, and we probably would have loved it, BUT SHE DIDN'T.
Gideon Cross kicks Christian Grey's ass.
The story just got better and better and by the time I read the last chapter, everything made perfect sense and I didn't want it to end.Reflected in You is one of my top ten faves of 2012.
“If I lose you, Eva, … I have nothing. Everything I’ve done is so I don’t lose you.”  I have never so anxiously awaited for a sequel like I have for this one. It is no understatement when I say that I was literally counting down the hours to its release date, desperately clinging onto the little snippets that the author fed us along the way. And, for me, it was definitely worth the wait.Eva and Gideon’s relationship is still relatively in its early stages. Their love for each other is all-cons
If you can just allow yourself not to over-analyze the toxic nature of some of the scenes, if you can become blindly consumed by the magnetism between Eva and Gideon, if you can take the raw pull and sexual chemistry first and everything you might believe makes a healthy relationship second, then this story will take you on quite an emotional ride.
These are ‘faulty’ characters completely aware of the obsessive and borderline-destructive nature of their relationship but fully embracing it as neither of them is willing to step away from one another - “Failure isn't an option.” The events unfolding in this book show us just how far they are willing to go to protect each other.
After reading Bared To You, I fell in love with Gideon and Eva and became a HUGE fan of Sylvia Day. I could not wait for Reflected In You and I was so not disappointed!!
This was when my heart ached the most and I wanted to just shake them because if they would have just opened up to each other, especially Gideon, and trusted each other, these things could have been avoided.
One of the things that I love about Gideon is that he is a dirty-talker and likes to take control in the bedroom or limo or shower or plane(you get the picture);) Wow...Sylvia Day can definitely write some SMOKIN-HOT, DIRTY, SEXY, PANTY-MELTING, DROOL-WORTHY, SIGH-INDUCING SEX scenes.
I'm all for hot steamy sex, and there was a lot of  I NEED A MOMENT ALONE WITH BOB AFTER READING THAT moments.
It was she gave him head they fought they had sex he gave her head she came 1 bazillion times his beautiful cock blahblah they fight they made up she gave him head she came a gazillion times they fightetc etc etc and then  BAM  
Sylvia Day BLEW MY MIND!I loved the story behind Bared to You. Once I got past the first half of this book I loved the story behind this book too.
