https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75162.Soul_on_Ice
I now know more about Eldridge Cleaver through his collection of short essays, covering diverse topics such as Muhammed Ali, Malcolm X, the sexual politics of race, war and politics, from Soul on Ice.Cleaver’s writing is extremely infuriating yet it’s hard to stop reading.
And you know it’s important to read this book as Cleaver was such a pivotal player in the Civil Rights movement.
However, the language he uses in this section isn’t one of a lunatic but one of an eloquent man, which is disturbing in itself.Cleaver's prison essays were the most poignant to me, as were his analyses of the living situation of blacks in America: “Individuality is not nourished in prison, neither by the officials nor by the convicts.
He makes no attempt to reconcile them and even though this isn't an autobiography (as billed), it becomes a self-portrait of incredible clarity for that simple fact.But one of the most interesting things about this book is that Cleaver's blackness has inspired in him a sort of Cartesian project--the rejection of all received (white) truth, beauty, and goodness, and a fundamental reevaluation of the world and its lies.
Soul on Ice is a collection of outdated essays, along with a few love letters to his attorney written while Cleaver was serving time for being a serial rapist.
His observations about the disturbing mental and sexual pathologies that exist in the American black males mind towards white females are very insightful and realistic.
Although I think the general pathology black males have towards white females has evolved into something slightly different now, given the system now approves of and out and out promotes relationships between black males and white females, this book is still brilliant as far as delving into the psychological illness that exists within that dynamic.
There are lots of reasons to admire the Black Panther Party, Cleaver is not one of them.

Cleaver was an intelligent man, I think the book makes this obvious, and he became furious and indignant, because he realized.
Cleaver represents through his writing the tortured black, tortured intellect, tortured poor, tortured criminal...
It is a fearsome condemnation of America, both then, and today as well.Our society was and, judging by these reviews, still is well-anesthetized to the trauma of the black American.
I don't want to call Cleaver a victim, but how else do you describe the black American?
It seems that nowadays people think social issues in America are solved, have forgotten about it, and get confused when they read something that offends them.
I looked for this book yesterday, and I found it where I remembered it as having been.
That in itself is a small miracle.
Usually a decision to look for a book is the kiss of death as far as finding it.
Typically I will then find the book six months or a couple of years later when looking for another one.
Maybe more than a small miracle.
Miracle!I wanted to find a particular part.
Today I go to Goodreads and a friend is commenting on somebody's review of--Soul on Ice. Miracle.Addendum: "No preview" in Google books.
Mr. Cleaver makes no attempt to smooth over any wounds, and I'm sure his blunt honesty probably scared a few whities.
But the difference between the book and a pamphlet of honky-hating propaganda is that good ol' Elridge takes the time to explain and dissect the issues; e.g., rather than just dispel the idea that black men have a soft spot for white women, he dives into a lengthy and pretty eloquent explanation of just why it is that way.
In the end, despite what most people would consider radical tendencies, Mr. Cleaver comes off as sharp and voice that could stand to be heard by more people.At least, I think.
I belong in other words to the generation that read this book, recommended it highly to everyone for two years and spent the next forty years being highly embarrassed about having done so.Eldridge Cleaver was a serial rapist who said he enjoyed committing the act more with white women than black.
We were led by our good intentions to admire not only Cleaver but also Ho Chi Minh, Mao Tse Tung, Che Guevara and others.
Read this book which was greatly lionized in its time to understand the extent to which my generation went off half-cocked.
The review is not for the man or his beliefs as a whole, but for the power of this book to open a window into a strange and unsettling era, and to come away with more understanding of that era.For example, Cleaver in one section justifies his rape of (more than one?) woman as a natural outcome of the hundreds of years of white men raping black women, and killing black men, rather than a private act of violence for which Cleaver feels moral responsibility.
Incredible.
Though some of the specifics of Eldridge Cleaver's ideology are a bit dated, his overall intellect shines through in this tome that shares uncomfortable truths about not only Western society, but modern society in general.The best part of this is the story of Cleaver himself.
Was a criminal until he was sent to prison, and then he started to read, and read and read.
Bang - all of a sudden he's writing critiques of Norman Mailer (Author), James Baldwin and more - and his words have an impact.But just a great read, and every time I think that his admonitions are archaic, I just turn on the news.
I've never liked Eldridge Cleaver.There's a fascinating anecdote in the Wikipedia article about Cleaver: It claims that he applied for a technical writer position at Apple Computer in 1980; his resume listed a single publication, this book. Apple's documentation staff had read the book, evidently didn't want to work with a sociopath, and therefore declined to hire him.
Although it contains a wealth of exposure to many of Eldridge Cleaver's life experiences, it really is a collection of essays/letters he wrote while incarcerated, therefore making it less of an autobiography and more of a collection of essays.
Complex in terms of finding myself highly disturbed by some of the content, while loving the book at the same time.
I've settled on the idea that Eldridge Cleaver was nuts and genius at the same time.To be honest, I am still unsettled with the fact that I absolutely loved this book.
The book was written at the right time.
At first, I didn’t know what to expect as I’m not accustomed to reading books where the book is a collection of essays or such.
A happy medium was provided in which Cleaver detailed many troubles and thoughts that plagued him and society alike during the civil rights era.
The mass media rush forward with grinding cameras and extend microphones as though some great oracle were about to lay down a new covenant from God; when in reality, all that has happened is that the blacks have been sold out again.”  Again, great book, great read, w/ excellent writing!
I’d recommend this book to anyone looking to garner a better perspective of ones thought process at the time of the civil rights era.
Ich denke nicht, denn das eine bedingt das andere, das Werk ist Ausdruck der Persönlichkeit, und man macht es sich zu einfach, wenn man nur die schönen Seiten sehen will.
Auch wenn heute die Gleichberechtigung immer noch ein Traum ist: Ohne Leute wie Cleaver würde es heute immer noch ganz anders aussehen.Cleavers Archetypen des allmächtigen Verwalters und des übermännlichen Knechts, der ultrafemininen Puppe und der Amazone, geben einiges an Stoff zum Nachdenken, auch wenn ich manche seiner manchmal sehr biologistischen Theorien über die Gesellschaftsentwicklung nicht teilen kann.
Now I can say I've read it... To be honest, I wasn't really sure what I was getting when I started listening to this audiobook. I knew Eldridge Cleaver was a Black Panther. But I didn't know if this was an autobiography or memoir or a book he wrote about the Black Power struggle of the 60's. It turns out it was kind of neither and both at the same time. The internet synopsis says they are a collection of essays he wrote during his time in jail prior to his involvement with the Black Panther Par
But I didn't know if this was an autobiography or memoir or a book he wrote about the Black Power struggle of the 60's.
The internet synopsis says they are a collection of essays he wrote during his time in jail prior to his involvement with the Black Panther Party.
I also was given an outlook of some of the thoughts and feelings of that time period.
Some times I felt the book was a bit dated.
For the most part I felt it was an informative and thought provoking read.
These times I did a little forwarding.
Mr. Cleaver talks on politics, race relations, love, life, and his own experiences.
Somehow, rather fantastically, also unacceptably in a way, this book has so much relevance in todays world.
We are repeating ourselves here and what this book is to teach the radical, the centric, the entire body of the human race that we must break this chain at the risk of each of our lives for this cause of equality, it sounds scary, yes, but we do it for the hundreds of millions to be born into this world.
This book is incendiary, a Molotov cocktail lobbed into the unstill and unorganized masses of Black America, urging them to cast off their chains, regain their bodies, their minds, and burn White American Power to the ground.
The thesis is one third Marx, one third Freud, and one third rage, blended in what a much more modern and less impressive thinker calls "The Ghetto University." I haven't quite figured out what this book means, more than 40 years on, and what place Cleaver's ideas should have, but damn is it impressive.
Soul on Ice had me gripped to the edge of my seat.
I was in awe of his writing, initially near to torn apart reading this man scraping the bottom of his soul saying ‘here’s who I am, what I think, how I think, and more importantly, how I came to think.’ The next thing I know, I’m sorely humored (and amazed) by the sophisticated but surly way he phrases, and then positions his arguments.
Generally, this is not the best way to win arguments.
But it does grab attention, and I must contend, make for powerful literature.This memoir is a keeper.
Thus he returns once to the arms of the Republican party, another time to evangelical Christianity, again to the Unification Church and later to his own personal synthesis philosophy, Chrislam, searching for a place to belong, but never elucidating a single point of focus as succinctly as Malcolm.Cleaver's most egregious criticism in "Soul On Ice" is reserved for James Baldwin ("Notes on a Native Son") whose work he alleges exhibits "...the most grueling, agonizing, total hatred of the blacks, particularly of himself, and the most shameful, fanatical, fawning, sycophantic love of the whites that one can find in the writings of any black American writer of note in our time." Cleaver goes far beyond mere literary critique in order to advance a vicious personal vendetta founded not on any principled disagreement with those critical insights raised in the writings of Baldwin, but on his distaste for the homosexual lifestyle.
I first read SOUL ON ICE over twenty five years ago.
At the that point in my life, I understood very little of what Cleaver was really saying.
The blistering anger came through, but, even a non-reader of SOUL ON ICE knows about that anger.
Almost fifty years after Cleaver published SOUL ON ICE, I understand the anger isn't the point.
Put simply, SOUL ON ICE is a crash course in racial awareness.
One man's journey through American racial ideas.
109"Americans are becoming increasingly polarized right and left, with the great Bboyd of the people in the middle confused and, sometimes to mask their confusion, feigning indifference.
I should feel guiltier about not liking this book, I suppose, but I don't think that would be fair.A large portion of the book's latter subject matter consists of an idea that a partition between the world of the white man and the world of the black man can be adequately represented, in short, by saying that the white man assigned the black man the status of being representative of the Body (capitalization as it appears in the book) while the white man appoints himself as a personification of the Mind.I don't ascribe to simplifications like that when it comes to trying to classify people.
It was in the news some earlier this year (I heard it mentioned a couple of different places) with all of the controversy surrounding the Rawse date rape song and the umpteen other silly rape-related controversies.Soul on Ice probably is most famous these days for the part where Cleaver explains how he practiced raping black chicks in the hood to get his moves together before he went and started raping white chicks, but that's not actually what the book is about.
explaining how he got in prison, in case you were wondering.Note that the way he discusses it is just as matter of fact.The bulk of the book consists of prison autodidact-style ruminations on race.
That is a difficult concept to explain in long books, so hopefully this narrative will help- how I came across the book was a recommendation on Twitter framing it in terms of responsibility (this person was using responsibility in the framework of "anarchy," same difference).Though of course it is disappointing to read other reviewers respond to the rapes and the harsh statement against homosexuality as if the book's answer is an approval of rape or an approval of boxing off heterosexuality (reading the book in itself- I have not researched what other comments Cleaver made).
As others have indicated, a deep confusion resides here; Cleaver repeatedly denigrates James Baldwin, his apparent overriding reason being Baldwin's sexuality, while praising Norman Mailer, who appears to me to be a drunken egomaniac.
At its best, it is righteously angry, ripe with insight into American cultural life (his take on Chubby Checker, Elvis, beatniks, and the Beatles is amusing and edifying), and expressive of the deep rifts between black and white society.
This is also a document of its time, 1968, and I read it concurrently with Baldwin's novel published that year, Tell Me How Long the Train's Been Gone.
You won't find King's dream here.
Eldridge presents the reality of race relations at the start of segregation and the crushing view from the end of the tunnel.
Beautifully written of a very ugly truth.
It will not be pleasant to read.
I don't believe it's supposed to be.
It will give insight and hopefully move us a bit more into the light.
This was written in 1968 and unfortunately still is relevant.
One line in the book that was highlighted by a previous reader 'The price of hating others us loving oneself less' won't soon leave me.An existential crisis in a world where you don't exist.
Very difficult for me to read.
As I started to read about his theories on civil rights, I was struck by how much things have not really changed.
So, I do like the book in the sense that it made me think.
But I am not sure that I would call this one of my favorite reads.
I believe it reflects an attitude that was prevelent in those days about women and gay people but it still does not make it right.
There were other aspects of the book and the AA struggle that are spot on.
But it was difficult almost all the way through.
I'm not going to rate this book because I did not finish it, technically.
I just could not go an further with this memoir because I found it quite unsettling.
The part of the memoir I read, about 60 pages worth, was very well-written.
However, I've learned that I'm not the only person who has not been able to finish this book.
If you can stomach it, I recommend it because it was well-written, vivid, and, seemingly, an accurate depiction of Black male thoughts in America - it did not seem "touched" like other African American autobiographical works.
If I had to rate this memoir, I would rate the bit I read 5 stars out of 5 stars.
When I initially read this book forty some years ago as a chick still in high school I was naievly dazzled.
Rereading it now I hoped to gain a perspective of the time it was written.
Now it reads like the diatribe of an obsessed, bitter hater.
I can certainly understand the validity of many of the points made in this book, but the seething vitriolic undercurrents take the whole thing down.
Of course, I now have read information regarding the balance of the Eldridge Cleaver's life and the incongruous wide swings of perspective of his later years.
Three stars for the memories of the first read.
This book was challenging for most of the book club, but it sure brought some deep and good conversation to the local book club meeting. Chosen by one of our online members from Indiana, she made the trip to Michigan to facilitate, and brought some real topics to the table, in relation to the subject matter. I think the consensus was that the author was very intelligent, but came across as a bit crazy at times; we considered during that timeframe in history and his environment, being crazy was a strong possibility.
A friend of mine put it best: 'Soul on Ice has some good writing, but Eldridge Cleaver is mostly a f%*#head.'I did not enjoy reading this book. For reasons I can't quite finger, I wanted to actually tell Cleaver to shut the f*%# up at several points during my reading of this.Soul On Ice raises an important question, though: can we accept 'wisdom,' from a rape-o shitbird, can we find universal truth in his ranting?My answer is a tentative yes.
