https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154392.The_Town_and_the_City
My enthusiasm for Jack has waned in recent years but this is still my favorite Kerouac work, by far.
It's the one I would recommend to anyone who is put off by the slapdash qualities of Jack's later writings.
This is the closest Kerouac ever came to producing a mainstream novel: The prose is poetic, even flowery at times, but the most questionable Kerouac trademark -- aimless stream-of-consciousness passages, AKA "bop prosody" -- is nowhere to be found.
Character development is strong, the settings are vividly drawn, and the last few pages of the book provide a poignant launch pad for "On the Road".
Highly recommended to Kerouac fans, of course.
The Town and the City: A Novel needs no special reading and is an excellent place to start for a reader wanting to pick up Kerouac.
Peter (Jack Kerouac) is compared and contrasted with his brothers.
Kerouac in his earlier days loved to compare and contrast.
In New York Kerouac, as always, remembers his friends.
In The Town and the City we can also see this in Peter who like Kerouac was a football play and merchant marine.
He lived an interesting life with interesting friends and what was not interesting could be changed by writing.
This book floored me, I loved it.
This story is jack Kerouac writing as Thomas Wolfe but emerging as Jack Kerouac.
Genius!
One of his greatest works!
Many people dislike Kerouac because they hate or can't relate to his characters.
Some people have a hard time reading his free form, Beat, Jazz, style of writing.
But that's just all surface material, and that's the point.
Between the lines of text and behind his characters are people just like you and me, each with their own complex story.
Love, hate, understanding and indifference.
if you want something warm and fuzzy and simple, watch TV!
It was such a great book, started so normal American life of the 30s and 40s a family in a small town with their kids, but then before the end people were shooting up and their were books about gay people and murders and it was just brilliant.
It was interesting to see some of the familiar cast of characters, but also to see people who don't normally get mentioned, like the father of the family, who was dead in most of the later novels.
With the exception of the novel about his little brother and Maggie Cassidy so many of Kerouac's books just seem to be him on his own and it was nice to see more of the family.
I found it hard to get into at first, I found it a little too descriptive of surroundings, it's very rural, but I persevered and my god it was worth it.
There's no author quite like Kerouac, there's no soul like Kerouac.
He's observant and articulate and delivers to the reader an understanding of so much, the lives of many characters are touched in this novel and it amazes me every time the depth to which each character is created, it seems Kerouac can see into the unique sorrow that haunts everyone.
In what I think I may consider to be Jack Kerouac's best work (indeed), we get a novel that transcends the Beat nomadic zeitgeist of a generation in favor of a very tender, very American, portrait of a bucolic American family as it morphs, changes, collapses, and triumphs (in not that order) over the years.I was refreshed by this novel page after page, enthused at the first turnings, in love with Kerouac's prose style, which is so flawless and tender.
I know Kerouac loved the metropolis, but the chaos of the city sections shows his despair that comes from being swallowed by it.
I was not actually aware that this novel's characters were based on real life figures of the Beat generation until AFTER reading it.
While reading it unaware of the real idenitity of the characters, I was more impressed with his characterization of the difference's between the town and country, the effects of WW2 on everyone and the apparent poverty alongside great wealth in New York.
Many of the characters in NY like Leon Levinsky and Will Dennison did not seem to be anything like cult figures, writers or from the "Beat" generation (ie in actuality Ginsberg and William S.
I first tried to read "Town and the City" when I was 21 and I couldn't get into it because I wanted (and expected) it to be like "On the Road" and "The Dharma Bums" and his other Beat writings.
T&C is such a wonderful family saga (much like "East of Eden") and I have found as I've gotten older that I enjoy Kerouac's tales of growing up in Lowell versus his peripatetic novels that he's most famous for; however, T&C beautifully portrays the growing of a family in the small mill town of Galloway, Massachusetts (based on Lowell) and how WWII and the aging of the eight children transform the Martin family, which can be seen, in a way, as a microcosm of America of the early 20th Century.
And then took my time doing so.I've been reading it for almost a month now, and I have seldom loved a book so much.Kerouac's timeless story of a small town American family coming to live in NY through circumstance and misfortune is as beautiful as it is sad, and deserves to be celebrated much more than it is.
My favorite parts of the book, though, are the scenes of Galloway, drawn by Kerouac liberally drawing from his own Lowell, and the happiness of life in an American small town, in the shadow of a perennial river flowing by - friends and family and good food and hard work and the smell of mountain rain.
I didn't read it for a long time.
I re-read work very sparingly.
Anyway, I decided to read this finally after reading about it in a biography of Kerouac called Memory Babe.
There were passages quoted in the biography that I thought were quite beautiful and rather consistent with my sense of Kerouac's poetics.
The poetics were forming at an early stage, and the sense of the world, of sadness and of human frailty, were consistent.
Their rhythm and lyrical quality were definitely at times sublime.In a way, I am glad it took me this long to get around to reading it.
Il meccanismo narrativo alla base di questo romanzo è incredibilmente affascinante.
Poi, però, intorno alla parte terza (con la comparsa della guerra), il libro si trasforma.
Da occuparsi di tutti i personaggi si concentra su uno in particolare, Peter, che sin dall'inizio appare come il protagonista più interessante.
Ed è incredibilmente affascinante scoprirne l'evoluzione, seguire la crescita dello scrittore attraverso quella dei personaggi.
È un libro da leggere, anche perché è uno di quei libri che "fa primavera", come amo ripetere, soprattutto nella prima e nella seconda parte.
Kerouac can write about anything and capture such an incredible shared human experience within his pages, something that is even more apparent because he writes about the things that are burning in his mind and heart.
He writes about them all in such a way that you ache with his aches, and your mind becomes his in an altogether lonesome, and threadbare world.
Although his way of living, writing, and processing always seemed somewhat slapdash, he has, at the same time, some of the most well-versed and clarity-filled articulations I have ever read.
Overall The Town and The City is worth the praise that it receives though I'm surprised that many Kerouac fans claim it to be their favorite when compared to his other works.
What I enjoyed the most was were the moments where Kerouac's writing in the nevel exists somewhere between the style he would become famous for and what was clearly the heavy Thomas Wolfe influence he was under at the time of writing this.
It's a fantastic, heartfelt and honest debut novel that anyone who loves Kerouac - correction - that anyone who loves literature should read at some point in their life.
and reading this was like sticking my head right into the lost, forlorn, desperate, burning soul of Kerouac... and knowing I'm just where I'm supposed to be. and knowing there's some way to expel all the heartbreak and beauty out of ourselves.... the realness of being... that thing that heaves so often in my chest. and a book can be that. Truman Capote never read this...
It's an amazing, thorough, engrossing novel about a family that collapses as it moves to New York.
It's amazing in that it runs contrary to everything Kerouac embraces in his later novels.
Really a fascinating novel for anyone who thinks he or she knows Kerouac.
Slow going but really interesting to see how Kerouac wrote before he switched to sketching as a writing style.Now I'm about 190 pages in--it's really good.
He's a memorable character either way.Just a really great bunch of tales about Kerouac growing up in Lowell (Galloway in the novel) and what war-time America was like for a kid.
A unique book in Kerouac's canon, The Town and the City is ultimately a rewarding read.
Despite the slow start, the novel picks up after the first hundred pages, hitting full steam as the brothers start moving to New York.
It is in these moments of lucidity that Kerouac seems to channel something universally human that touched me - despite the occasional plastic character or overdone American sentimentalism.
and why you should read it.While it certainly is overlong and a touch unoriginal, The Town and the City was a pleasant surprise for me.
Kerouac's touch still oozes through the pages...
It's one of those books with a very simple plot that is simultaneously about everything.
It also grapples with the definition of home and why importance is placed on it.When you're a little kid, you think your dad has all the answers.
I think adulthood is learning that your dad is a man just like any other and he is just as lost in this world as yourself.
There's this contempt father and son have for each other.
The father for the son because he can't understand how the youth and the world are changing or why.
The son for the father precisely for that misunderstanding.
The bebop, drug culture, and New York City elements are a great contrast to the small town beginning, and the ending rural reclamation and reconciliation on the old family home.
Kerouac ends the book off with Peter, the lonesome child, starting off on a hitchike across America which echoes forward to "On The Road" and other works to come.Some of the prose, and plot development, was awkwardly done.
You can see it was an early work, but you forgive it when he gets this whole idea of individuation as a family.
He portrays the father as brother, and son with a real facility.Great read.
Definitely, the most traditional of all Kerouac's novels.
You can see (read?) the influence of Thomas Wolfe, which annoyed Kerouac.
For me, the Thanksgiving football bit (which closes the first major section of the novel) is one of the best parts.
Kerouac does a great job of describing a high school football game and what it feels like to be a part of it.
Another precursor to future Kerouac books.Definitely not his best book (and a bit cliched in parts) but very enjoyable, very nostalgic and lots of great little bits of Kerouac-iness.
I absolutely love this book. I thought I had a decent idea of Kerouac character, but after reading The Town and the City I really do know him. Written from a multi-biographical perspective, Kerouac tells of his life from several characters, which all serve as part of his own personalities. An absolutely inspiring, sad, funny and honest account of a true Beat prose genius. I highly recommend it to anyone who is interested in American Literature. Oh, and try to figure out the authors from Kerouacs character descriptions.
This was my first book I read of Kerouac.
It was his only novel before he descended into his free verse drivel.
I have only read this book once but I keep wanting to give it another read.
I really liked it the first time I read it.
It starts off with the family that lives in the country and follows all the kids for a few years as they go out into the world.
They each grow differently despite similar origins.
I thought a number of the characters were very interesting.
If I was to recommend 1 Kerouac book, this is it.
The Town and the City is Jack Kerouac’s first novel and it can truly be described as a great start. The portrayals of characters and places are brilliantly described and the story has all you could hope for in a great novel: it's touching, infuriating, entertaining and heart-wrenching all at once. The Town and the City is written in a more conservative mode than Kerouac’s later works. However, you can start to see his distinctive style coming out in this book.5 Stars
An amazing book, though very different from later Kerouac. Moments of cutting clarity laced through a sea of vague emotional upheaval. Hard to formulate in words since there's little plot, but insightful of the range of human feeling and need.
Before Kerouac established his stream of consciousness style of writing, he wrote this linear narrative. Wonderful.
Has to be the BEST KEROUAC BOOK ever. Rereading it...
No one appreciates the love of their family and small town life until they find themselves out of it and making their way in the big wide world.
Adventure awaits the Martin family as the older boys, Joe, Peter, and Francis leave their small town of Galloway to go to college.
I really thought I would like this one because Kerouac is such a well known author and I grew up in a small town and thought I could relate.
Amazing. I wasn't sure I would enjoy this book but I did. I found myself thinking "I want to re-read this again someday soon" even before I was finished.
I'd heard this book was a lot different compared to later Kerouac classics, and true it is different in lots of ways especially his writing style.
The world was wildly different after the war and Kerouac goes a great length to show it by the actions of the 'hepcat' kids in New York, getting a glimpse of the early 'Beat Generation' with characters such as Alan Ginsburg and William Burroughs in the mix.
A truly fascinating and enjoyable read that I would recommend to anyone, especially pre-existing Kerouac fans.
Leí The Town and the City luego de haber pasado por las obras más conocidas de JK (On the Road, The Subterraneans y The Dharma Bums).
Personalmente, me gustó mucho.
Narra toda su adolescencia y juventud de una manera muy llevadera, con la cual empatice en muchos tramos.
Los contrastes que se dan entre todos los hermanos Martin me parecieron muy genuinos, tanto que parece que el tipo sopesó todas sus posibilidades a cada momento, y terminó siguiendo el camino que más lo contentó.
Tambien disfrute conocer mas acerca de su padre, al que JK hace alusión en las obras que leí.
Indecisione che riflette una lettura scostante, tra sentimenti contraddittori, una lettura lunga e lenta, allontanata e poi ripresa più volte.La città e la metropoli, prima opera pubblicata di Kerouac, ma non la prima composta (sarebbe il quarto romanzo o giù di lì), è sì acerba, ma non troppo, il che non giustifica certi suoi difetti.
Come romanzo di formazione sarebbe troppo lungo, eccessivo nella sua irruenza verbale (che però è aspetto tipico di Kerouac), e privo di spina dorsale, privo, cioè, di una qualche direzione che dia senso al tutto.
