https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1734596.The_Letters_of_F_Scott_Fitzgerald
Such a lovely neurotic man. I love his novels and his letters, as well. He's flawed, talented, spoiled and a drunk -- but, oh, the words!
Utterly incredible, and the letters to his daughter were filled with unshakeable wisdom and love. A stunning, intelligent collection, and a must read for any Fitzgerald fan.
As I expected, but even more, the standard display of rich eloquence by Francis. I was surprised on how little he wrote Zelda in comparison to others. Or, maybe not, come to think he probably never left her side.
It's a good reference book for the shelves of any FSF fan. It goes well with a copy of his Ledger. A reading of just a few of the letters will lead one on an extensive Google search for other books and authors.
Las idas y venidas de Scottie, sus líos (llegó a ser expedientada en Vassar, aunque nunca llegaron a expulsarla), sus suspensos, su pereza a la hora de entregar los trabajos y de leer la enorme lista de libros que le impone su padre… Todo esto provoca en Fitzgerald una frustración tremenda, la típica del padre que sabe que su hija “vale más que eso”.
Y así, estas “Cartas a mi hija” se desvelan como un precioso tesoro que nos sirve no sólo para conocer cómo era Fitzgerald en las distancias realmente cortas sino para presenciar una bonita relación entre padre e hija que confirma en todas las casas cuecen habas… Aunque sea a ritmo de jazz.
A marvelous collection of F. Scott's letters: to his daughter Scotty at college; to Zelda; to Maxwell Perkins, most of them begging him for money. Fitzgerald is as perfect as a writer in his letters as he is in his fiction. It's so sad to see a genius fall from the heights & have to inform a "B" Hollywood producer: "I'm a good writer -- really I am."
A beautiful collection of letters written by F. Scott Fitzgerald to many people, including Zelda, his literary agents, and Scottie. Definitely for the FSF fan base because it could seem boring to someone not into him as an author. I do wish we had some corresponding letters. It was difficult to figure out what he was addressing at times because you don't see both letters.
Very well organized. Hysterical and deep at depending on which letter you are reading.
Thrilling opportunity to read his own letters. Like a stolen look into someone's diary. I devoured this book!
For the library's program, The Big Read: The Great Gatsby
Oh, to have a Maxwell Perkins......I loved these letters!
