https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28541.Dragonsong
Fortunately, Dragonsong is also a very good book of its type.The best friend of my childhood was different from me in many ways: middle-class to my trailer-trash, older, weak where I was strong (he suffered from a heart condition that would kill him while still a teenager), and part of a large and functioning family.We both lived in religious households that discouraged "worldly" reading but, while my folks were strict, his were lax.
I should've read it when I was a prepubescent girl.
Clearly young girls are the target audience for Dragonsong.
The less-than-thrilling story revolves around a girl musician.
Now she's lost, but a dragon rider comes to the rescue.
Oh, aren't dragons ever so beautiful?
I felt forever floating in a limbo world with a couple of other mildly interesting characters.
The foreword to Dragonsong was quite informative and set up the framework of the fantasy world in a way that I could readily grasp the basic laws.
It's not that Dragonsong is bad, it's just not for me.
I've read Dragonsong several times over the years and it continues to be one of my favourite Young Adult novels of all time.
Menolly is neither bad-ass warrior nor shrinking violet, but rather someone whose passion for music in all its forms combines with a strong sense of decency to carry her through the trials of living in a place where she's not wanted, and having to make a place for herself outside her familiar home.Dragonsong neither fits the contemporary notion of Young Adult nor Middle Grade but is instead a kind of timeless story that appealed to me both as a teenager and as an adult.
While it does sit within the massive canon of Pern novels, it works perfectly well as a standalone book for those who've never read any of the Dragonriders books.
Just reread this for the first time in years.A bit heavy on the "Menolly is a girl, oh no!" and things don't really pick up until the fire lizards show up, but even so ... good stuff. And still the comfort read it was 20 years ago. :-)
For me, this book transcends the plane of existing merely as a book. It is a dear memory wrapped so closely to my self identification for when it was introduced to me and by whom, my father.For a preteen growing up on a small island Menolly's fate was so easy to identify with and I wished for my own dragonets. The story is magical. And I love it still.
The plots still as riveting, the world-building still as thrilling and the characters still as good - well, maybe just a tiny bit more teen angst than I look for these days, but otherwise just as good!In Dragonsong we follow the adventures of Menolly the youngest daughter in a sea hold where everyone works brutally hard and which has no appreciation for music.
She impresses fire-lizards, small wild, relatives of the massive dragons and then she teaches them to sing.Still as good as when I read it years ago, as good as when it was written in the 1970's , I wonder a little if it could be as amazing to a young girl reading it today as it was to us all back then?
However, her father does not support her in her talent and in fact tries to hamper her since she is a girl.
Menolly is such a lovely character that I loved the first time I read these and that warm and fuzzy just came back again on the reread.
She runs away from the hold and is caught out in threadfall.
She ends up impressing nine of them to save them from death.
She finds herself out in threadfall once again some time later.
She has run her feet raw, so she spends time in the Weyr healing.
Her father has little time or patience for such frivolous activities as music and is very conscience of propriety and everyone's proper place in the social structure of his sea hold.
When the sea hold's harper, and Menolly's musical mentor and friend, dies, a replacement is not expected for many months.
Menolly's father has a duty to fulfill in the education of the sea hold's children so he reluctantly agrees to let Menolly assume that responsibility temporarily until the new Harper arrives.
As they hatch, the hungry fire lizards leave the cave only to be destroyed by the Fall outside.
This is the book that led to my discovery of both sci-fi and fantasy as genres, it opened up the world to me, at the time I was eleven but a decade (+) later I still enjoy it.The book was written for an arguably younger audience than any other set of books in McCaffrey's Pern series.
I think it says something that I have read this book over a dozen times, but still find myself longing to relive the events therein.Do yourself a favor if its raining out, curl up with any of your favorite books, but I do hope you'll give this one a try.((Read as #100 book of 2012 in celebration of being able to read at all after a few trying years of little time for literature))
The first Anne McCaffrey I ever read, and still a favorite. Menolly is a great character, and her adventures are timeless and instantly engaging.
The Game of Thrones helped redeem adult fantasy for me and Dragonsong has totally redeemed my love of ya fantasy.
It set around Menolly , who lives in the Sea Hold.
After a accident renders Menolly unable to play music, she runs away from the oppressive Sea Hold and discovers the fire lizards and sets the course for an adventure that will bring her close to the dragons she sings about.
I loved Menolly.
I felt like I was taking the journey with Menolly.
I love the world of Pern that Anne McCaffrey as created.
I am a little confused about the order in which I have to read the books of this series because there are different approaches.
So I have to break the Dragonriders of Pern trilogy to begin this.In the Harper Hall trilogy we are at the same time as the previous book of the series but we follow a different story.
The protagonist of this story is the sweet and sensitive Menolly who goes against the strict conservative beliefs of the region that was born expressing her love for music, which in their opinion is a purely male affair.

Dragons were my ponies, Koivu
I read these later than the first 3 Dragon books but I enjoyed them. A little "younger" audiance in mind here but a nice read.
I had previously read one short story in the Pern series, and it was intriguing enough for me to buy this book for 50 cents.
But I didn't realize that not only was this the third book in the overall Pern series, it was the first book in the Harper Hall trilogy.
Reading it, I was like, "Menolly who?
Give me dragons!" But like I said, that's not really the book's fault.
If you want dragons, go to the Dragonrider trilogy, not the Harper Hall trilogy.Anyway, the book is decent.
Alien prejudice is a favorite trope for sci-fi fantasy writers.
Presumably, reading about strange discrimination teaches us that all discrimination is strange.
Thoughtful writers like Iain Banks can use alien prejudice to comment on the dynamics of power and on cultural relativity.
That makes for an interesting read.In Dragonsong, Anne McCaffrey has done something else entirely.
Does Menolly in any way subvert our expectations of what a female fantasy character should be?
That's good, and it does get better, kids--even if you don't conform to bigoted Western cultural expectations.Also, this is some bland-ass prose.
The injustice finally becomes too much and Menolly flees, only to discover a nest of fire lizards, a new life, and a destiny that will take her far from anything she has ever known.Oh, this book.
And then, after I was swept into the world of Pern and dragons and fire lizards, I discovered it was the first in a trilogy and had to read the next two immediately.
It’s an effective narrative to be sure, but I now also think of it as a metaphor for all sci-fi: leaving the repressive, traditional world of the past and pressing on into the future and new and greater heights.But I mentioned dragons!
It introduced me to the world of Pern and was one of the few things I have ever been able to give back to my Aunt Debbie to repay her for her kindness in introducing me to science-fiction/fantasy, Isaac Asimov, John Bellairs...Dragonsong serves both as an introduction for young adult readers to the Dragonrider series, an examination of gender roles and tradition in their society (and perhaps in ours), as well as a loving celebration of music and poetry.
It is followed by Dragonsinger and Dragondrums.New readers may take some effort to adjust to McCaffery's Pern dialect and the strange apostrophied names of the male Dragonriders, but this gets easier with time and is an excellent language learning tool.
Recently engaged with question "What is your favorite fantasy?" Don't read much fantasy nowadays.
The Harper Hall series is a favorite.
Would like to re-read Wrede.
The character McCaffrey created for her Dragon song was a favorite ...
When I explored, many of the libraries I visited had copies only in the Young Adult section, while in other libraries only SF shelving, and not in YA.
For me, a fun read, and reread, and a chance to see whether YA or SF copies got borrowed more.
(SF copies more borrowing, but also shelved with McCaffrey's SF array.
(McCaffrey's love for music shines through.)
Dragons and music on a different planet, with a likeable heroine to boot! Where has this book been all my life? I can't wait to read more. Luckily there are many.
Marisol and I are rereading and reviewing Pern. Our Harper Hall trilogy review is here: http://fablecroft.com.au/miscellaneou...
She Impresses (with a capital "I" because Important World-Building Concepts are Capitalized in this World) all nine of the lizards who live through the hatching, and spends many happy days singing to and feeding them.Menolly finds her way to one of the dragon Weyrs when a dragonrider rescues her from another Thread attack.
It isn't McCaffrey's fault I read this almost 40 years after it came out.*I'm not entirely on board with the current notion that prose pruned of all adverbs and adjectives is superior, but here things have gone too far in the other direction.I'm kind of sorry that I ignored Dragonsong, or even found it boring, when I was of an age to appreciate it, since my cynicism makes me unable to connect with ultra-talented Menolly and her adorable little pets who somehow understand human speech and gestures from birth.
But it's tried and true for a reason - its a warming tale for anyone who's ever felt that way, who's felt that some special aspect of themselves wasn't really appreciated, and of course the second-hand triumph when the character is ultimately recognized and finds their place.I've never read any Pern before, and some of what was going on was a bit of a mystery to me - if it remains so at the end of this trilogy I may have to look into other arcs in that world to learn more of the history and culture of the world.
I read a lot of her books as a middle schooler, (devoured them more like) but I always had a sort of snooty attitude toward them.
No one sings while fishing?)The misogyny I can sort of accept, but it makes very little sense to tell a girl that, because she's a girl, she can't make up any new songs-- even though everyone likes them, and also can't teach any kids to bang a drum, either.
And I'm afraid the irony and self-parody is lost on McCaffrey herself-- that Mennolly Actually Is repeatedly shown dodging work.If that was deliberate, McCaffrey's literary skills have long been severely underrated.(less)
I just reread it, partially because I remember liking it, and partially for a reading challenge here.
Finally, unable to take being barred from what she loves most, she flees the Hold and lives on her own.
I think this book struck such a chord with me because music is a big part of my life as well, and even when I was young, I remember feeling such outrage at how her parents treated Menolly.
It's a simply written book, probably just fine for the YA audience, which is what I was when I first read it after all.
Over the years I have heard great things about this series, but just never got around to it.
Pern has lived in fear of the Thread for centuries.
The main thing that can stop it is fire.
So the dragonriders mount up and stop it every threadfall.
Living in her sea hold, Menolly doesn't worry much about the thread.
All she wants is to become a Harper and create her own songs to sing.
But, girls can't be harpers.
This book was great!
I love Menolly and wanted to kick her dad's a** for the way he acted.
I'm not usually a fan of dragon stories, but when my aunt bought me this book, within the first few pages I was hooked on it. Menolly is a memorable character and the book has themes of friendship, bravery and kindness without getting too preachy about it. The author's writing style is amazing and all in all, this is a great book for all ages, I highly recommend it.
Well, once you get past the gratuitous abuse this is a pretty cute story.
After finding her new friends, things begin to look up for Menolly who realizes that anything is possible if you aren’t afraid of going after what you want.There’s more to the plot, of course, but all of that is better learned by reading the book instead of this review.“Dragonsong” is written in what I would call an understated style.
On the other hand we have the story of a girl finding her own way in the world as she discovers that she’s a much stronger, smarter and more vibrant girl than her parents would have her believe.You can find this review and more on my blog Miss Print
