https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16307.Hallowe_en_Party
''The past is the father of the present. The ''crime'' writers who write like Christie are few. The ones who try to write mysteries similar to her own are non-existent. I may sound harsh, but those who struggle to imitate her should take a step back and reconsider. And why is that? Because she understood, embraced and elevated to a whole new level the implications of the past when facing the present. As horrible as a present situation may be, the roots of all evil lie in the deeds of the past.
In my opinion, ''Hallowe'en Party'' delivers this notion in a highly atmospheric manner and presents one of the most elaborate crimes Agatha ever delivered.13 year old Joyce, a little busybody who wants to be in the centre of attention, is found murdered in a tub filled with apples, in a twisted apple-bobbing game on Halloween.
In this work, sexual passion and obsession are the motives that guide each suspect and there is a plethora of fascinating stories of people attracted to beauty, vice and a twisted notion of love.
And, naturally, the ITV film production was perfect, despite some deviations from the novel.If you want to experience Halloween through Crime Fiction, don't look further.
You might read this book and think that Agatha Christie writes mysteries with predictable plots and too large of a social agenda.You would be right if you based your judgement solely on this novel.
That might explain the travesty that is this novel.Yet, I look at the date of this novel—1969—and realize that perhaps one of my favorite mystery authors was simply getting tired of her characters and writing to meet a deadline.
She holds off on revealing who-dun-it until long after the reader has any doubts, making the denouement simply a relief that the book was almost over, rather than a delightful surprise.Agatha Christie writes wonderful mysteries.
A fan of Agatha Christie, I've had this one on my TBR pile for too long.
For the last three years I have checked this book out for Halloween with grand plans to read it.
I used to read Agatha Christie so long ago and frankly, I'm not sure why I moved away from her books.
Which is odd as I'm not a huge mystery fan but always make an exception for Ms. Christie.
Not being a mystery fan....but found it shocking that I pegged the culprit early on in the story.
A highlight of a read, eh listen for me.
When the Halloween party is over, Joyce is discovered dead, but only Mrs. Oliver connects the earlier boast to the death–the rest of the village is prefers to blame an anonymous unstable person.
Whatever was the matter with her, she would no doubt spend a very long time pouring out her grievances, her woes, her frustrations or whatever was ailing her…The things that excited Mrs. Oliver were so numerous and frequently so unexpected that one had to be careful how one embarked upon a discussion of them.”The atmosphere is sinister, and the setting feels fully realized, although I still don’t understand why snap-dragon would be the capstone to a children’s party.
10/23/18: Still trying to find that perfect Halloween read?
Maybe you aren't a fan of horror or don't want to be afraid but still want the feeling of the Halloween season?
If this is the case, than this may be the perfect book for you!
This is one of the Hercule Poirot books and if you are a fan of him, his calm and efficient manner in solving mysteries, than what are you waiting for?
Perfect for fans of Christie's classic 'whodunit' formulaic (not meant as shade, I personally find them relaxing) mysteries!
Read for my IRL book club. Based on the publisher's blurb that Dame Agatha's sales are exceeded only by Shakespeare's and the Bible, my failure to appreciate what the entire reading world cherishes no doubt speaks to some dark blot on my soul.
What started out as a unique and interesting mystery soon turned into a rather tedious read with bland characters and a repetitive storyline.
I was left feeling like there was absolutely no way I could have figured it out, like the clues were never given.
Maybe they were there though as I found the book to be so disjointed that I was never interested enough to try and figure out the clues.
I chose this as a Halloween read but other than the murder occurring on Halloween, there is no Halloween element to the book.
They believe in your tale of dastardly deeds and murder, the tale that brought you to such an untimely end; their quest for vengeance will lead them to all who once stood in judgment of you.
Unfortunately, your legacy remains that of an unrepentant liar and even your avengers soon grow weary of your string of lies and deception.
But wherever shall you go?If you decide to follow the demented authoress on a path filled with psychics, séances and black magic, choose http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...If you decide to follow the mustached weirdo in his never-ending quest for crème de cacao, choose http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
3.5 stars!I had my hunches and finally figured out most of the mystery, with a 1/4 of the book left.It can happen friends but is very rare with AC books! It’s so rare, it’s kind of like seeing a yeti for the first time. 😂This was a fun book and an interesting ending.Not one of her best books but still highly entertaining.
While helping to decorate for an upcoming HALLOWE'EN PARTY a contentious thirteen year old comments that she once witnessed a murder, but when no one believes her, she high-tails it for home, and only a few hours later, after the party, she is found drowned in the apple-bobbing tub........hence another murder mystery to solve for ole Hercule Poirot with his manicured to perfection mustache, too tight patent leather shoes and never-ending search for the truth.Really enjoyed this one!
(Note: No Spoilers here, summary of drowning on back cover of my edition)
Mrs Oliver, a crime author, had been visiting a friend and helping with the organisation for a joint Halloween/11+ party for some children.
There is a little personal complaining from the author about the modern world – boys hair, children’s behaviour and a little repetition, which does show that Agatha Christie is not quite at the peak of her powers.
As such, it is an interesting novel for Poirot fans, as a glimpse of Christie’s views of the permissive society and, as such, of how Poirot viewed the modern world.
Amid the preparations, she brags about having witnessed a murder once.
Most that hear her simply suppose that she is trying to impress Adriadne Oliver, a noted murder mystery author that is in attendance, so they pay litte mind to her.
Its Mrs. Oliver that contacts Hercule Poirot.
There were some concerns that, since this is one of the later titles in the Hercule Poirot series, it was not going to be as impressive as the earlier ones.
Once there, he learns of the murders Joyce could have seen and these served as the red herrings.
Another block buster from the queen of crime writing. Once again Poiroit teams up with Mrs. Oliver to solve a crime where the characters have a sinister past. Slowly and skillfully the ace detective unravels the plot. Compared to her other novels, this is relatively shorter but not short on thrill
The ending, while it seemed a little out there when compared to the two novels I previously read, was certainly plausible.This being the third to last Poirot book, you could tell that Christie had begun to wind him down.
I tried doing a little light research into Hercule’s age and given that many believe he is 62 in the first novel, that would make him 115 in this book - so that can’t be right.
It will probably take me a long time to get through all forty of the Poirot novels, so I’ve got many happy reading years ahead of me.
3.5Feeling a bit torn about this one.
The mystery was a good one, suitably horrible with the death of a child, and for once I got the identity of the killer (yippee - but not the exact motive).On the other however, I found the many references to this contemporary time quite jarring.
I expected one type of vocabulary and got sometimes something quite different.
I'm sure I've read many of her later books but I don't recall ever feeling like this.Another important factor for the pros is of course Ariadne Oliver.
«Voi volete la bellezza» sentenziò Hercule Poirot.
«La bellezza a ogni costo.
Sempre.»Cara Agatha Christie, ormai riesco a capire quasi subito l’assassino.
😂Questa volta rincontriamo un’amica di Poirot, Ariadne Oliver, già protagonista di Carte in tavola, libro che ho apprezzato tantissimo, soprattutto per tutte le discussioni di argomento metaletterario che compaiono di tanto in tanto.
Durante una festa di Halloween una ragazza viene uccisa, affogata in un secchio d’acqua.
A questa festa partecipa anche la signora Oliver, famosa scrittrice di gialli, che subito chiama il nostro eroe a sbrogliare la matassa.
Come sempre, il libro è scritto bene, intrattiene e fa riflettere.
3.5 stars Ariadane Oliver should really stop attending parties or planning any special events because once again Hercule Poiriot was needed.
This time to try and solve the murder of a young girl that hours before her death claimed that she "had seen a murder once." Turns out this English village has more than a few missing people, forgers, accidents, and murderers.
My head was spinning!
I love the relationship between Olivier and Poiriot as they have these "downtime " moments in the midst of crime solving where we can easily see the mutual respect each has for the other.
In my preparation, I was also listening to Christie’s ‘Hallowe’en Party.’ It is a book I have not read by an author I consider an old friend – even if I never met her.
At the request of his friend the famous murder mystery writer, Ariadne Oliver, he has come to help solve the death of a young girl.
It sounds a touch dangerous to me but it definitely fits as a fun Halloween game (even if it usually took place at Christmas time).Small town politics and gossip, as is tradition, help Christie’s characters find their murderer.
The cast is vast, their interconnections vague, and the motive for the murder was (while the same in both versions) significantly less well explained in the book.The filmed version is superior, as one would expect from work coming from the inspired pen of Mark Gatiss.
He is, after all, one of the geniuses behind the stellar re-imagining of Sherlock Holmes, Sherlock, among other television delights.The primary benefit the story has on film versus page is the opportunity to clean up the clutter.
The story's essential horror comes from untrammeled greed in both versions, but the film's pace and slimmed-down cast make the experience hugely superior.
Murder seems to follow you to parties; what a bad guest!A girl is murdered at a party and a shaken Ariadne pulls Poirot into the case, which I partly figured out with my own ‘little grey cells.’ I really enjoyed Ariadne’s presence, which, though not large, still entertained me.
And really, Poirot!
Patent leather shoes in the country while you walk from location to location during your inquiries?
Though you are intelligent when it comes to figuring out who’s a murderer, your desire to look good instead of sporting sensible shoes makes me grin and shake my head.
كالعادة: ممتعة، مشوّقة وغير متوقعة
I had little expectations except to be happily surprised at the cleverness of some aspects of the ending, as I always am, and in that respect was not disappointed.Hostile 13-year-old Joyce, known to be a compulsive liar, tells everyone at a Halloween Party for “Plus Elevens” that she once saw a murder; when no one believes, she leaves in a huff and is promptly drowned in the tub for bobbing apples.
She's a lively character, the best thing that came to the imagination of the later Christie.Hallowe’en Party is quite good in places, it really is, overall, but it is uneven, including long passages of near irrelevance and boredom after a promising energetic and amusing opening, though it has, I’ll admit, a pretty satisfying conclusion.
They deliver more than a mindless hobby, which reading can sometimes be and really gear me up and make me alert for clues, suspects and provide with great satisfaction when I find myself on the right track.
Overall this was a great read but it made me think more that other Poirot books, of course the answers were right there but I was often mislead by Christie's many red herrings.
The murderer was evasive and I was surprised to discover who it was but it made for a great read.
Knjiga je solidna, mada možda ne vrhunska, i kao i uvijek kod AC nepredvidljivo se krije unutar predvidljivog. Zabavno štivo, i još jedan ugodan susret s malim detektivom.
Here's some free advice: If you want to impress people at a party, choose some topic other than "when I was a kid I saw a murder but I didn't know it was a murder and I just figured it out and isn't it awful and aren't I clever."Cracking good mystery, what what.
I was SO SURE the guy with the fake beard would turn out to be THE KEY TO THE WHOLE THING.Some of these Agatha Christie books are quite old, and even the later ones seem old to me because of their phrasing and expressions and emphasis on social classes .
A boastful 13-year-old girl, Joyce Reynolds, brags about having witnessed a murder during the preparations for a Halloween party later that evening.
Mystery writer Ariadne Oliver (a send-up of herself that Christie inserted in quite a few of her novels) doesn’t think so — and neither does her good friend, Hercule Poirot.
While the ending was a bit of a let-down, I’m not the least bit sorry I read it.
Still, despite having already appeared in print for nearly 50 years when Hallowe’en Party was released, Poirot hasn’t lost his touch in this novel.
— it pains my to rate a Christie book so low after that one) and my first foray into the Hercule Poirot series and even though I’ve been told that they all manage well as stand-alones, that you can jump right in at any point, Hallowe’en Party was clearly a poor starting point.
I started reading this in print and was at first enjoying it but once Poirot began his investigation I kept wanting to put the book down in favor of more interesting things like laundry and vacuuming.
And you can't say the plot is not somehow complex with all those different theories being brought up to the reader's attention...I loved most characters and the way Christie describes them + liked the very English tone and irony.
However, I don't know how to feel towards some of the views (on justice, murders related to mentally ill people, youth, etc) expressed in the novel.
I sometimes felt like they were outdated ways to think about those subjects, maybe because the novel was written in 1969?
Or maybe these were the views of Christie herself, and as she was growing old, her ideas were too..?I haven't had time to reflect on that yet!
It also features Mrs. Ariadne Oliver at her absolute best--one sees so much of Christie in her fictional avatar, especially her wonderful sense of humor.
Mrs. Oliver is allowed to express many thoughts on the trials of writing mystery fiction--no doubt Christie's own experiences.
Mrs. Oliver is put right off of eating apples for the time being, and Poirot is called in to help.
The solution makes perfect use of Christie's ability to conceal the crucial clue in plain sight.Hallowe'en Party is an elusive novel.
Poirot, I felt I had the basis of the character and was quite comfortable jumping in at number 36 (!) of the Poirot mysteries.I really enjoyed getting a contemporary look at the late 1960s in Britain in this novel—the young men with their sideburns and their fancy fashions!
She includes all the types that I would expect to find in a small town: the catty gossips, the one woman who seems to organize everything and is simultaneously appreciated and resented for it, the cads, the bounders, and the decent men.Probably not the strongest entry in Christie’s canon, but it filled a very enjoyable evening.
