https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10464963-the-buddha-in-the-attic
Some of us will like the book.
Some of us will cancel their RSVP to this week's book club because the last thing they want to do is give this book any more of their time.
Some of us won't like it because the lack of an actual plot or timeline.
Some of us won't like it because of the total lack of any charachter development, since there are no actual 'characters' in the book.
Some of us find this topic interesting, and wish the book could have shown me more about this hideous time period in our nation's history.
I read The Buddha in the Attic by Julie Otsuka as part of my women's history month lineup.
A well researched, historical fictional account, Otsuka depicts life for Japanese American immigrants to California over a span of thirty years in the early 20th century.
Hoping that life in America would yield a better future than that as a rice farmer, the women as young as twelve willingly left behind their families for husbands they only saw in photographs.Life in America, according to Otsuka, was not the American dream depicted in letters.
The issei- first generation Japanese immigrants- worked backbreaking jobs as migrant farmers.
the reader can't help identify with this large group of women; therefore, offering the reader some scope of how much and how many of these women suffered.*Otsuka does a wonderful job of spanning the extremes of the women's experience on the boat, in California as new brides to men they didn't know, working for White folks, having children and ultimately imprisoned in camps during World War II.
The reader can't help gleaning the fact that each experienced these events differently.Now the flip-side:*Otsuka clearly has researched, read her history of Japanese emigration, interviewed obsessively to come up with detail, words put in the women's mouths, etc.Sometimes, the book sounds like research rather than a novel.
It begins on a boat in the early 1900s, with dozens of young Japanese women who were being shipped to husbands in San Francisco to begin new lives.
The book gives a breathless, kaleidoscopic account of the women's hopes and fears and the hard-working lives for which they settled.I will share the opening paragraph because I think it is gorgeous: "On the boat we were mostly virgins.
Some of us were from Hiroshima, which would later explode, and were lucky to be on the boat at all though of course we did not then know it."After the sea voyage, the stories progress to how the husbands treated their wives, and the children that followed and the hard work they endured.
Some of us had nothing but rice gruel as young girls and had slightly bowed legs, and some of us were only fourteen years old and were still young girls ourselves." (Come, Japanese!)"That night our new husbands took us quickly.
They took us downtown, in second-rate rooms at the Kumamoto Inn. They took us in the best hotels in San Francisco that a yellow man could set foot in at the time..." (First Night)There is no traditional story, no traditional plot, no individual well-defined and developed characters.
The premise is very simple: told in the first person plural, the stories of the women who were brought over from Japan before WW2, generally to miserable lives they had not anticipated, is related.
There is a lyricism that is touching, some phrasing of ideas that is striking, some chuckle worthy ignorance about white people that mirrors the ignorance of white people about Japanese and so on.
It is a passage excerpted from a history book titled the struggles of Japanese women in the new world and puffed up with fancy prose.
When we talked about World War 2 the only thing he said was that the American Government's treatment of Japanese Americans was one of the most shameful things we had ever done as a nation, at least in his life-time.
While he was alive, one of his good friends was another retired Colonel named Yamamoto who served with him in World War 2 and beyond, which probably accounts for how deeply he felt about this topic.
I thought of Col. Yamamoto and his his son, my friend, David, when I read this book, as I did when I read When The Emperor Was Divine---which I have heard is now required reading in high school in some places, as it should be.
هذه الرواية هي وثيقة تاريخية للمسكوت عنه إبان حرب أمريكا مع اليابان وتتحدث بروح النُّون النسوية بإمتياز كاشفة النقاب عن التمييز العنصري الذي عانينه بتهجيرهن من بلادهن تحت تأثير الدعاية الكاذبة لعيش رغيد إتضح عكسه بمجرد وطئهن أرض تلك البلاد التي ومنذ عهد نشوءها الى وقتنا الحاضر وهي سباقة لكل ماهو مناف للإنسانية التي تروج لها جورآ وبهتانآالم العيش وشقاءه يتمثل في حياة هؤلاء النسوة اللاتي اغتصبن وهجرن وسرقن تم استغلالهن أسوأ إستغلال.... رواية تتحدث عن إختلاف الهوية وصعوبة اندماجها بإسلوب قلما له مثيل ....... رائعة
Otsuka enjoins the reader to flow with the voices of Japanese women from their sea passage to San Francisco as mail-order brides in the 20s to the time of internment in camps during World War 2.
Otsuka’s placing of voices side by side while speaking in a communal “we” evokes a tribal plurality, sometimes conjoining, sometimes contrasting, with the wonderful feel of conjuring the women into life by incantation.
And when you are prepared to follow the voices into the internment camps, the book leads you instead into the perspective of people in the towns left wondering where the Japanese have gone to.
The Buddha in the Attic What a mesmerizing reading experience this was. I don't recall reading a historical novel as emotionally intuitive and empathetic as this one in a long time.I was moved to read Buddha after watching George Takei's Ted Talk in which he describes what he and his family experienced when they were rounded up and taken to a interment camp after the Japanese attacks on Pearl Harbor.Although a work of fiction, this short novel focuses on the psychological and emotional suffering
I don't recall reading a historical novel as emotionally intuitive and empathetic as this one in a long time.I was moved to read Buddha after watching George Takei's Ted Talk in which he describes what he and his family experienced when they were rounded up and taken to a interment camp after the Japanese attacks on Pearl Harbor.Although a work of fiction, this short novel focuses on the psychological and emotional suffering of the people (particularly the women), whose rights were flagrantly violated and who in the blink of an eye, were forcefully taken to those interment camps during Word War II.
تاريخ الناس البسطاء، تاريخ النساء المنسيات اللائي كن فى الباخرة مجرد أنفاس مكتومة في العالم السفليوفي العالم الجديد أصبحن مجرد حضور باهت يعملن في الحقول والبيوت وحول قوارب الصيد.قول الأمهات لبناتهن قبل الرحيل:" النساء ضعيفات لكن الأمهات قويات."يرسم بوضوح التصور الذي اعتنقته المرأة عن التحول الإجتماعي، إذ تخرج من دور إلى آخر،متمثلًا فى امتحان قاس واختبار الألم والتحمل والجور المعنوي والجسدي.يُقدّم هذا العمل صور لا متناهية،لا تهمل تسجيل كل تجربة، ولاتغفل أبسط تفصيل من تفاصيل الصورة.
كنا نضع كلّ قوانا فى العمل...يسكننا هوس قلع شعبة طفيلية أخري....أخفينا مرايانا....أقلعنا عن تسريح شعرنا..نسينا التجميل..نسينا بوذا..نسينا الإله....تجمدنا من الداخل..ولم تتخلص قلوبنا بعد من جليدها..أظن أن روحي ماتت....لم نعد نكاتب أمّنا..فقدنا وزننا وصرنا نحيلات..لم نعد نحلمكل رواية قرأتها أريد أن أصل لنهايتها لمعرفة النهاية او مقصد الكاتب الا تلك الرواية ورواية الأفلام لم اريد ان تنتهي تلك الرواية أبدأ ..رواية تعيش معها ويصلك معاناة تلك النساء فى كل سطر..أسوب سرد رائع بصيغة الجمع تتحدث به الكاتبة عن معاناة حقيقية ليابانيات هاجرن من بلدهم الى امريكا ليتزوجوا من رجال من بلادهم ويعيشون فى أمريكا..يهاجرن الى حياة أفضل ولكن كل ما مروا به لم تكن إلا معاناة..معاناة من أزواجهم..من العنصرية..من العمل كلإماء..من تجنب الناس لهم ولأطفالهم..حتي تصل الى الحرب العالمية الثانية ويعيشوا الرعب من تهجيرهم ..من قتلهم ..من التبليغ عليهم أو اتهامهم بالخيانة ..عن اللوحات المعلقة التى تريدهم أن يتركوا منزلهم وحقلهم وكل شئ....واخيرا تقوم الحكومة بتهجيرهم الى الجبل ولا يعلم أى أحد معلومة عنهم بل تم نسيان وجودهم فى ذلك المكان..
بعيداً عن الضيعة فيما يقال توجد بيوت بيضاء فاخرة....
بعيدا عن الضيعة فيما يقال حيث ذهبنا ....
بوذا في العالم السفلي هذه قصة بلا أبطال، كتبت بضمير الجمع لتعبر في البداية عن ملحمة النسوة اليابانيات وهن يتركن بلادهن ليصلن إلى أمريكا كزوجات للرجال اليابانيين المهاجرين، ولكن الضمير يتوسع مع الوقت ليضم المجتمع الياباني في أمريكا في مرحلة تاريخية مهمة قبيل الحرب العالمية الثانية، عندما تنامى العداء لليابانيين في أمريكا وتفجر مع بيرل هاربر، ليقود لما صار فيما بعد وصمة عار في تاريخ أمريكا، عندما تم التشكيك بولاء آلاف الأمريكيين من أصل ياباني وتم تهجيرهم إلى معسكرات خاصة في الصحارى الأمريكية، الرواية مؤلمة كأي رواية تكشف لنا عذابات البشر المتكررة على مر التاريخ.
Within this slim volume the history of 20th century Issei and Nisei - first and second generation Japanese immigrants to the western hemisphere - is told by Japanese women, who must "blend into a room", who must "be present without appearing to exist." Otsuka gives these women fearless, tender, angry, sorrowful voices and dares you to not hear.
They were ill from the long voyage at sea and desperately homesick - although most had been sent to America to relieve their families of financial burden; they knew their only future is before them, their only home the one they would build with their stranger-husbands.
Life is hard for these women, to say the least, and like an experimental documentary, we are allowed to follow hundreds of these characters through the early years of thier marriages, child bearing and rearing years, and the endless work that consumes their lives either cultivating fields on the West Coast or in domestic service.The final segment of their stories ends with the onset of World War II, and the months leading up to the internment of all citizens of Japanese descent.
There are many historical fiction books about the experiences of individual Japanese picture brides, and I've seen a few great films as well, but to attempt a book that collectively mingles in so many women's contrasting experiences into a short volume is impressive!
A generation, lost in time and space, of a handful of Japanese girls, women, and children who are shipped to a distant land with a distant dream.
And, she has done it so powerfully in these 129 pages that it leaves an impression of having sifted through a hundred lives in a very short span.In eight sequential sections, Otsuka has convincingly laid out the chronicle of these Japanese women who came to America in 1900s, made it their home, and were forced to flee with their families in the hinterlands during the world war.As soon as they reached shore and came across their fates, they had to immediately draw themselves out from their premonitions, their dreams, and their identities and be on their toes to succumb and submit.
They took us even though we hit them...And on...and on...and on....and on....and on....and on...An entire chapter's sentences started with They took us...By this time I knew this promising love affair with this book was over, and WE were only hitting chapter two.So yes, although I switched off like a light bulb, I still wanted to know about OUR experiences.
I have read several books about this part of the Japanese history, which, in my humble opinion, captured the essence of these shameful events much better.
I wanted to read this book for a very long time, and I am very glad I finally did it.
Das Buch hat mich von der ersten an Seite mitgerissen und ich konnte es nicht aus der Hand legen.
Das Buch ist sehr interessant und ich konnte viel von diesem Buch lernen.
Die Autorin schreibt nicht aus der Sicht von einer, zwei oder drei Frauen - sie lässt eine ganze Generation für sich sprechen und von ihren Wünschen, Träumen, Erfahrungen, Schicksalen uvm erzählen.
Neben den offensichtlichen Informationen, die mir diese Geschichte gegeben hat, konnte man so viel zwischen den Zeilen lesen und ich war komplett in dem Buch gefangen und habe auf jeder einzelnen Seite mit den Frauen mitgefiebert.
I adored When the Emperor Was Divine and was looking forward to this next book. There was a time when it seemed that all I was reading was about the plight of Japanese Americans during WWII. Another shameful part of American history. Otsuka didn't add anything new, but her writing is so eloquent that emotions and heartache were bleeding from the pages. The downfall for me was the style of telling this story. The repetitiveness didn't resonate with me and was distracting. I would absolutely read another book by Julie Otsuka.
What a fabulous read!!! From the journey from Japan to San Francisco of Japanese mail-order brides to the onset of Japanese Americans sent off to internment camps during WWII, I was spellbound by Julie Otsuka's "The Buddha in the Attic." Narrated from first person plural and told from the POV of a group of women, this is a powerful story, for it allows the reader to see multiple perspectives yet still see the women as individuals. This would be a terrific selection for a book club.
Ovo bi bila novela iz žanra istorijske fikcije ispričana kroz vinjete sa zajedničkim okvirom i tematikom, ali kroz stanovišta i poglede više likova, nekad neimenovanih, nekad imenovanih, nekad i više likova govori zajedno, ali ne u formi dijaloga, već u formi njihovih misli - koje su usmerene u podjednakoj meri i na faktualne događaje i na njihove patnje, taman da se drama izmeša sa istorijom i onda čitalac može reći da je nešto i naučio o jednoj malo poznatoj istoriji, a i u stil se utkalo toliko neke poetike, tipično japanske, tako tihe i mirne uprkos svemu što opisuje, da će onome čijem senzibilitetu odgovara haiku poezija gotovo sigurno dopasti ovo.Negde su misli i rečenice tako poetične, dugačke, rasplinute; negde se čitave godine sumiraju sa jednim ili dva zapisa, da bismo zatim preleteli kilometre, upoznali drugu osobu, njenog poslodavca, i tako u krug.
Otsuka's story of the Japanese picture brides of the early 20th century is an unusual novella, written from the perspective of the group "we", the multiple experiences of the women who came to America for a "better" life for themselves and, in some cases, to help families left behind. The style is evocative of, perhaps, the repetition found in Native American poems and song. Here it isn't so much repetition as the format of lists of expectations, fears and experiences. Amazing. And this also mak
Otsuka's story of the Japanese picture brides of the early 20th century is an unusual novella, written from the perspective of the group "we", the multiple experiences of the women who came to America for a "better" life for themselves and, in some cases, to help families left behind.
Here it isn't so much repetition as the format of lists of expectations, fears and experiences.
The primary difference from other cultures is in the closure, the forced relocation of the Japanese out of their homes, their work, their schools, sometimes their marriages, for relocation away from California during World War II.There is much to think about here and, to my mind, the form this story takes adds to the impact.
Buddha in the Attic is a fictionalised account of the Japanese picture brides who arrived at San Francisco in hope of a better life than the one's the had left, a life better than the ones that their mothers had  Were they still walking three steps behind our fathers on the streets with their arms full of packages while our fathers carried nothing at all Once in the USA, many had been cheated. Their husbands were older and poorer than their photographs suggested, even the letters they sent were
Buddha in the Attic is a fictionalised account of the Japanese picture brides who arrived at San Francisco in hope of a better life than the one's the had left, a life better than the ones that their mothers had 
The Buddha in the Attic aims to fill all the gaps of this suppressed dark history of the Japanese Americans, that were not addressed in WTEWD.
Otsuka speaks about several aspects of their lives with the exception of their stay at the internments camps and their return.Reading this book made me realise that a lot of the caricatures of Japanese(and possibly several other ethnic groups) that I have been exposed to come from the west.
As with most short stories or novellas, this almost 'prose-poem' of a book is probably best if you can read it straight through, in this case, to get the full effect of its incantatory prose.
Though it's mostly told in first-person plural, it reminded me of the style of Tim O'Brien's The Things They Carried, another treatment where what seems like 'just' a list of things is so much more.
It does what I feel literature does better than 'knowing the facts': reminding us, showing us, that behind the 'numbers' are individuals.Be sure to read the author's note at the end to see whose words she uses for her fictional mayor's.
It’s a searing insight into an entire community of innocent and naïve Japanese women who arrived in California after World War I, with dreams of their new American life that would soon be cruelly shattered.Each of these women – whatever fate decrees for her – is also connected to the larger body of the sisterhood, women who move from the ship to the farms, the Japanese laundries, and the servants quarters in fine houses…women who obey and often secretly (and not so secretly) hate their husbands, are forced into becoming lovers to their employers, bear children, watch the children die or shun them because of their foreign habits.The style is poetic and haunting.
Le spose in fotografia Una voce collettiva, quasi sussurrata ma implacabile- originale questa modalità narrativa e assai efficace- racconta in modo ipnotico e avvincente la storia di tante giovani giapponesi, inesperte ,piene di speranze, tenaci e coraggiose, immigrate in America all'inizio del novecento.
Ci presero con goffaggine ,e noi non ci lasciammo più toccare per tre anni.Ci presero con una maestria che non avevamo mai conosciuto, e capimmo che li avremmo desiderati per sempre.
Ci presero mentre gridavamo di piacere e poi ci coprivamo la bocca per la vergogna.
Ci presero rapidamente, più volte e per tutta la notte, e il mattino dopo appartenevamo a loro.
The second sentence of the novel: "We had long black hair and flat wide feet and we were not very tall." This voice is not just for the set-up of the book, like I'd originally thought.
No. Throughout the entire novel, Otsuka maintains this impersonal "we," referring to the Japanese women who move to the United States in the late 19th/early 20th century to marry men they've never met.
The entire time I was picturing someone reading these lines, intoning them low and serious, like the backdrop of a religious ceremony.
It is almost as if Otsuka, in wanting to tell these womens' stories, diminishes their lives even further.
Ogni tanto una voce, un assolo che ricorda a noi che leggiamo, a noi che ascoltiamo, che quel coro è fatto di singole voci, di singole storie, di singole donne, che quel noi è fatto di tanti io, un plurale che diventa singolare.Attraverso queste voci la storia delle spose in fotografia, le donne giapponesi che all'inizio del Novecento arrivarono negli Stati Uniti per sposare i loro connazionali espatriati in cerca di un lavoro.
Attraverso queste voci, la storia della comunità giapponese, che un giorno, dall'oggi al domani, come una folata di vento spazza via le foglie secche, scomparve dalle città della California dove aveva vissuto e lavorato per essere trasferita nei campi di concentramento del Arkansas, dell'Idaho, dello Utah.
I don't believe that I have ever read a book that was written like this, one that is written in the collective "We" and "They." So creative, lyrical, and heartbreaking.
They were Japanese mail order brides of almost a century ago that believed that they were coming to a good life in America, even to good husbands.
They also believed that they would make good wives for they knew how to cook, to sew, to make tea, and to please.
Some babies were delivered by their husbands who knew nothing about delivering babies.
We stopped writing home to our mothers.
We stopped dreaming.
A narrative about the experience of Japanese women in the 1920s-40s who came to the USA as "mail-order brides" for Japanese men.
For me, the concentrated way in which Otsuka conveyed a wealth of information and experience was both challenging and satisfying.
I was not surprised that it was a fine foundation for a good discussion on many levels including: the roles of women (in Japan, in the USA); the way that immigrants are viewed in America; what constitutes integration into American culture and society; various survival techniques and their relative success; and, what people will do when they think they can get away with it.
