https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66678.Exile
For this reason I cannot give any big details about plot as they will spoil the ending of the first book.
Sufficient to say Drizzt is still alive which is not a big surprise as this is the second book of the series about him featuring 15 more.
I saw too many trilogies with interesting world building in the first book, exciting conclusion in the last one and throwaway filling in the second one.
I am eager to start the last book of the trilogy, especially considering the way this one ended.
However, as any reader of Salvatore’s book’s knows, his plots and characters are not cookie cutter.
His friends Drizzt and Belwar try to find a way to save him but can’t.
Another image that comes to mind is Drizzt, who after ten years of living in the underdark wild and devolving into a primal and savage “Hunter,” shows up at the gnome city.
They know they do not matter to the world at large, like Drizzt.
But they also know they want the best life has to offer.
Drizzt Do'Urden has spent a long time (we are told) becoming "The Hunter", an (apparently) epic persona, or alter ego, wandering the cavernous corridors of the Underdark with an insatiable bloodlust (except when he's nice, which is most of the time).Despite my making fun of it, I really enjoyed the second book of the Dark Elf trilogy, even more so than the first.
This sequel has a more well-constructed plotline than Homeland, and despite the unfortunate fact that most of it is remarkably predictable and self-evident, it is an immensely enjoyable story to read.Bonus points for more Jarlaxle and Zaknafein, two drow who are quite a bit more interesting than Drizzt.
The story picked up 10 years after the final events of Homeland and found Drizzt hiding out in the Underdark trying to avoid the murderous vengeance of his family.
It actually started a bit dull as Drizzt was very gloomy and his plodding from place to place in the Underdark meeting random monsters was not all that exciting.
We did get to meet a few interesting new characters in this installment.
The most interesting character we meet along the way was Drizzt's second companion Clapper.
They must fight the usual political scheming while also trying to find and kill Drizzt to appease the Spider Goddess.
Aunque soy una fanática de la literatura fantástica, las novelas de este género normalmente las leo en forma más pausada, poniendo tranquilamente mi marcapáginas cuando tengo otra cosa que hacer… pero con este libro era imposible parar.
Está tan bien narrado que se te estruja el corazón con cada una de las situaciones que debe vivir Drizzt y, lo más importante, la forma en cómo las enfrenta.
Este proceso está tan bien retratado que es imposible no empatizar con él y su sufrimiento, así como su increíble capacidad de esperanza.
However, he realizes that he is turning into what he hated to begin with without the communication with other thinking beings, so he goes to the gnomes where he makes a friend with Belwar Dissengulp, whose life he once saved.
This puts the little gnome community in danger, because the evil matriarch of Drizzt's family is hunting him and wants him dead to please the wishes of the Spider Queen.
“In my stubborn youth, I believed that I could stand alone, that I was strong enough to conquer my enemies with sword and with principles.
“Magga cammara, panther!” the deep gnome growled.
“Magga cammara, cat!” Belwar roared again.
This was light on plot (middle book syndrome?) - unless you consider Drizzt's wanderings through the Underdark a great plot - but it was a quick read.
As a result of this environment, the kind, gentle Drizzt has become a killing machine, a survivor, a bully's worst nightmare.
Worst of all, Drizzt has suffered abuse at the hands of his own sisters and mother.
Enter Belwar, a svirfneblin that Drizzt encountered in the first book, Exile.
Three buddies, all trying to help Drizzt overcome his evil inner self.If that's not enough, let's throw in some foes.
Of course, there's Matron Malice, Drizzt's mother.
What really pushed this from a 3 to a 4 star book, however, was the intrigue between the drow themselves.
Frightening and fantastic sequel twisting and turning through the wilds of the Underdark, Exile is a tightly wrought tale of humanity, with Drizzt fighting for the values he holds harder than ever. As always, R.A. Salvatore's action is fierce and his world-building flawless, and Drizzt's philosophical reminiscence at the beginning of each new section the rueful highlight of the book.
Buddy read with Chris.I didn't find this quite as good as the first book in the series but it was still a good read.To many fight scenes that we could have done without if you ask me and less of depth. I loved the ending though and will continue with the series.
Rtc
[3.5 Stars] I really enjoyed this fun romp, but it wasn't anything I was extremely invested in.
There was an awesome side character that I enjoyed a lot.
He added a lot to Drizzt's personal journey.
I also don't even try to memorize any proper names in this series since they're all so long.
I'll definitely be reading more in this series because it's just so fun, but I do hope we get some female characters that aren't the worst, most evil beings in existence soon.
I still liked it but to be honest I enjoyed the Menzoberranzan (yeah, totally looked that up) sections more than the Drizzt ones.Drizzt has escaped from his family and has been hiding out in the underdark for the last ten years (too long in my opinion).
With the panther Guenhwyvar as his only companion he has lost touch with who he was.
Collect companion.
Battle boss character.
Drow.
Evil.
No degrees of evil.
Most of the characters were much like another.
The opportunistic Drow mercenary leader.
If you liked Homeland but not this one I'd still continue.
A bittersweet ending, but still absolutely amazing. I am so in love with this series.
After really liking the first book in the Dark Elf Trilogy, Homeland, I was looking forward to reading this...and I was disappointed.
The first book took place almost exclusively in Menzoberranzan (the City of Spiders) which I thought was fascinating and very well described, especially the social and political aspects of Drow society.
The parts in this book that took place in Menzoberranzan were also very well done and were my favorite part of this book.
That said, the book still had some interesting characters and concepts and I will likely read the last book in the trilogy in the not too distant future.
Οι περιπέτειες του Ντριντζ, του θρυλικού dark elf συνεχίζονται, καθώς προσπαθεί να βρει τη θέση του στον κόσμο, κρίνοντας όσα βλέπει και όσα συμβαίνουν γύρω του. Παράλληλα, αντιμάχεται το καλό και το κακό, αυτά που πρέπει με αυτά που θέλει, αναζητώντας το φως!Περιπέτεια με κοινωνικά-πολιτικά μηνύματα, για κάθε φαν του φάντασι!
Just finished this on the train, so RTC!
This is book two of Drizzt’s back story—wherein he lives by himself in the tunnels of the Underdark until he can’t take the solitude anymore and seeks companionship with mixed results.As one of my cousins pointed out to me, Salvatore writes great fight scenes and they are very much on display in this installment.
In fact, the book is basically a series of fights, stitched together with a very little bit of plot.
I will also give Salvatore credit for inventing some great Underdark creatures and cultures for Drizzt to fight with.Book number 274 in my Science Fiction & Fantasy Reading Project.
Actual 4.75This is such a good series and bloody addictive. RTC
The books follows on from Drizzt leaving his home and setting out on his own. Drizzt meets some unlikely friends just when he thinks he has nothing to live for. Its a great story of friendship and the power of companionship. But no Drizzt story would be complete without monsters, battles and the internal struggle of a conscious.This is my third or fourth read though of this book and I still get the same enjoyment and level of suspense as the first time.
Because of this development, I felt for some of the characters more deeply (because they were innately good), which made the fact that most of them faced some sort of wrong against them (Drizzt, Clacker, and Belwar) more intense.On top of the emotional connection I felt to many of the character, I also really enjoyed the budding friendship between Drizzt and Belwar.
Although Clacker is a new character that enters and exits the story relatively quickly, he can also be counted as a good friend to Drizzt.
Both Clacker and Belwar help Drizzt to see that there are indeed good friends to be had.I thought the villains (and ‘villains’) in this book were well done.
It feels like a boring, cookie-cutter hero was neatly punched out of some other book and pasted on top of Drizzt.First of all, he remains morally impeccable despite being raised surrounded by horrible people.
Only after he leaves them and goes off on his own does he become a savage killer?His "high morals" are also completely messed up, and he actually comes off as a coward.
Fantastik kurgu okuma isteğim hala canlı bir şekilde devam ediyor olunca yarım bıraktığım serileri de okumak için fırsat bulmuş oldum. Anayurt'u genel olarak sevsem de beklediğimi tam bulamamıştım ama seri için umut vaat eden bir başlangıçtı. Sürgün ise daha çok geçiş kitabı gibi, bu kitapla bir sonrakini bağlayan köprü görevini üstlenmiş. Geçiş kitabı olmasına rağmen severek okudum, Drizzt'in dünyasını yeniden hatırlamış oldum, seriye ara vermeden devam etmek istiyorum.  Drizzt'i yurtsuzluğun, yalnızlığın ve içindeki kötücül duyguların pençesinde buluyoruz ve yazar kitap boyunca bu ruh hallerini çok güzel yansıtmış, bu kısımları daha büyük bir ilgiyle okudum.
Almost a 3 as there were large portions of the book that felt like filler. I had to go with a 4, however due to some great friendships and character growth. I'm also super excited to finally be out of the Underdark. Wasnt a fan of that place.
While I enjoyed “Exile”, I can’t say I liked it as much as Book 1 of the Dark Elf Trilogy.
However, I couldn’t help but feel that the second chapter of the Dark Elf Trilogy was too dark for its own good, but more on that in a moment…What Salvatore does well in “Exile”, he does very well.
Also, I’ve always said one of Salvatore’s greatest strengths is his incredibly detailed action sequences, and he does a great job with that here (sometimes TOO good a job, as some of the gorier moments are definitely not for the squeamish).
I can barely stop yawning and/or barfing long enough to write a proper review. R.A. Salvatore books suck. Drizzt sucks. 'Nuff said.RECOMENDATION: Skip it. Hard.
3 stars.Drizzt Do’Urden has been wandering the tunnels of the Underdark for ten years after fleeing his home city of Menzoberranzan, alone save for Guenhwyvar, the magical panther.
Drizzt spends a lot of time wandering around the tunnels of the Underdark, killing monsters and angsting about his lonely life.
Things pick up somewhat when he goes to Blingdenstone, but to be honest the ‘meanwhile, in Menzoberranzan’ sections showing Drizzt’s family dealing the fallout of events in the first book are far more entertaining.I hope that book three will move up into another gear and Drizzt will get into his stride.
I loved the introduction of other races that weren't evil and I loved Drizzt's interactions with his new friends.The meat of this story was amazing but there were a few too many fight scenes for my taste.The battle scenes had me skimming pages which I really don't like to do, but I knew if I didn't skim I would never get through them.That ending was great and I'm excited to see what happens next.
Unpopular opinion: I could barely finish this book. If it wasn't for a buddy read challenge I never would have finished. Boring from start to finish. Bad writing style. 2 dimensional characters smeared with lots of angst so you won't notice their flatness. I think me and this series need to part ways.
I found it hard to visualize many of the supernatural creations because of vague description.I plodded through this volume because I like the concept of Drizzt, and I wanted to get to the next book where I know he leaves the underdark and I wanted to see how he fares on the surface world.
But like I said above, my suspension of disbelief is callused, and even more so is my ability to wade through bad writing and presentation.Of course, what do I know?
