https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1018838.The_White_Deer
Another charming, and extremely weird yet funny story that reads like a parodied classic fairy tale. Thurber really has a gift for wordplay and for weaving odd plotlines that don't fail to be hilarious. This is one of the best Animal Bride type of stories that doesn't focus entirely on the couple, here the king is practically the star of the tale as much or more than the prince, and I ended up liking him more.
In this book, Arthurian legend blends with Lewis Carroll or perhaps Edward Lear. This has all the elements of the quintessential fairy tale (magical lands, three brothers vying to see who will be first to fulfill their quest, an enchanted lady, knights, dwarfs, etc.). And yet there is something whimsical, knowing, satirical about all of it, as if the author is enjoying himself hugely and winking frequently at his audience to signal the approach of a funny bit. The illustrations are also humorous and add a nice element to the story.
Πρόκειται για ένα μικρό βιβλίο φαντασίας για παιδιά, που διαβάζεται και σαν παραμύθι.
Οπότε, όπως είναι λογικό, δεν μπορώ να το κριτικάρω και να το βαθμολογήσω σαν ένα κανονικό βιβλίο.
Όπως αρμόζει σε κάθε παιδικό βιβλίο και παραμύθι, η ιστορία έχει μπόλικη φαντασία και κουφές στιγμές.
Κατά βάση έχουμε ένα πανέμορφο άσπρο ελάφι που μεταμορφώθηκε σε πριγκίπισσα, όταν αυτό βρέθηκε ανάμεσα στα τόξα τριών αδερφών-πριγκίπων.
Πλάκα είχε η ιστορία, πολλή φαντασία, ωραίες εικόνες και κάμποσες κουλές στιγμές, με τα ηθικά διδάγματα να μην λείπουν.
Και η γλώσσα είχε πλάκα και χιούμορ, αν και δεν ξέρω κατά πόσο θα γίνει πλήρως κατανοητή από μικρά παιδιά (τουλάχιστον ορισμένες φράσεις και προτάσεις).
I love James Thurber and the illustrations, alone, almost make this book worth the read.
But combine them with Thurber's love of rhyme, alliteration, and paragraphs like: "She never wed, but sat with owls by day and cats by night, peering far and near and crying, 'Hark!' Her true love came in every form, in dust and wind and roses.
Her voice grew high and shrill and wild and wilder.
And in the end she brewed an evil brew of mice and woad and cocatrice and rue, and over this she cast a spell in metaphor.
. ."So much fun to read!
Another novel by jams Thurber, who is my new favorite author.
I was entertained by the notion that a person could know so many synonyms for so many words (the Royal Recorder) and I was a little confused because King Clode disproves of sorcery but keeps a wizard anyway.
I loved all the wonders of the enchanted forest (the Grove of Artanis, the Seven-headed "Dragon" of Dragore that guards the Sacred Sword of Loralow, the random woods wizards making everything more confusing for eveyone).
I especially loved that a hunter-prince almost won the hand of a lady who used to be a deer.
I have been in love with James Thurber ever since I was given a copy of "The Thurber Carnival" back in my teens. (That copy literally fell to pieces, it was loved so much!)I came across this fairytale recently in a secondhand book shop, and it seemed to be just the right thing to read after the horrors of Barbusse's "Under Fire". Delightful, quirky, full of wordplay that children would love, but with plenty of quirks for adults as well.
reviews.metaphorosis.com 4.5 starsA king and his three sons encounter an enchanted deer/woman, who sets each of the sons a challenge.I was looking for something light and fun to read after finally finishing Michael Moorcock's The Whispering Swarm.
Happily, I ran across James Thurber's The White Deer, which I had set aside a few days earlier to read.
It makes no great pretense at deep analysis - it's just fun, and a wonderful mix of Thurber's wit and beautiful writing.
Thurber is having fun with the genre while still being part of it.If you haven't read Thurber, pretty much any place is a good place to start, including this book.
This is a book for those who love fairy tales and the English language.
And almost as soon as you start reading, you can easily see see how this wonderful tale influenced Peter Beagle.
Here, you have a princess transformed into a white deer.
In Beagle's classic, Last Unicorn, the eponymous magical being must take the form of a fair maiden in order to survive.Thurber has fun with the tropes of fairy tale .
and does love to play with words and bring them together in expressions not quite eloquent, but certainly sonorous.Well worth your time.
Probably worth even more if you read it aloud!
Jorn is the youngest prince of three, and unlike his brothers, he prefers poetry to hunting.
The deer, however, transforms into a woman who cannot remember her name.
Prince Jorn is determined it shall be him, but his father is not certain that this strange woman is all that she seems.I don't even know how this book came into my life, years ago.
But it feels fun, up one side and down the other.The story itself is very simple, a fairy-tale with princes and princesses, witches and wizards.
This fairy tale is not as good as The Thirteen Clocks, but it's still very good.
His cartoons are amusing as well, half-bad and all-appealing.Some bits I read aloud several times, glowing with mirth:"The old man moaned and maundered, murmured, muttered, mumbled odds of this and ends of that, bits and pieces, shreds and edges, full of ifs and whens and theres and thens, amounting in the end and all to six times less than nothing.""The tale that Tocko tells is torturous and tortured.
It has its balances, its noes and yesses, its this way, that way, its 'tis and 'tisn't, its can be, can't be, its six of one and half a dozen of the other."
If you've never read the five books James Thurber wrote for children, I recommend them.
Thurber's writing would make a great read-aloud because of the similar sounding words and intermittent rhyming.
"In the forest of Willbe a song is three large emeralds."These books were written around 1950 (this one is copyrighted 1945), and I was impressed by how clever they are.
I had just read 13 Clocks when I started this, and I admit I didn't get into it immediately.
After a while, the memory of 13 Clocks had faded a bit, and I was better able to appreciate this book as it should be.
Is this a perfect book? Well, quite possibly. A modern fairy tale that satirizes without skewering, this is largely an exercise in enjoying the English language to the fullest extent possible. The characters are simple but not simplistic, the dialogue complex and exciting. Thurber has limited aims with the book, but he achieves and exceeds them brilliantly. I honestly can't recommend it enough. This is the perfect volume for a lazy afternoon when you need a pick-me-up.
Αυτό που με τράβηξε στον James Thurber ήταν το χιούμορ του. Άκουσα πρώτη φορά για τους μύθους του, στο μάθημα της δημιουργικής γραφής. Εκεί γέλασα με Το Κουνούπι και Τ' Αστέρι. Το βιβλίο δεν με απογοήτευσε και μάλιστα βρήκα Το άσπρο ελάφι ένα πολύ όμορφο παραμύθι. Ειδική μνεία στα πολύ όμορφα εξώφυλλα του βιβλίου απ' τις εκδόσεις Ερατώ.
Wonderful! Had everything a fairy tale should have - a king and 3 princes, a magic curse, a princess, quests, an enchanted forest, the lot. It takes an adult reader to read it, so that's a bit of an enigma I guess.
As with "13 Clocks," this was a forced march (book club pick): I enjoyed numerous witticisms, but NOT the story...nor did I particularly like any of the characters. Fairy tales are just NOT my genre.
Presume not that I am the thing I was, For God doth know--so shall the world perceive--That I have turned away my former self.  --William Shakespeare, Henry IV, Part II, Act V
For some reason it has taken me an inordinately long time to work my way through this short book.
Maybe it's just timing, or maybe it was because my reading of that book was such a serendipitous surprise, but I think it's mainly because in this book the marvelous play of words and ideas takes a bit of a back seat to the story.I can't believe I'm actually complaining about the story overriding everything else.
In The Wonderful O the word play CREATED the story; that's what made it so brilliant.Now, there's still some great word play in this book.
A little fantasy story by Thurber, not silly enough to be really funny, yet definitely not a serious story, either.
A king and his three sons--two hearty hunters like their father and the youngest a musician and poet--corner a white deer who changes into a beautiful princess.
The princess cannot remember her name or family, so she sets the three sons on quests.
Everything becomes clear in the end, like all good fairy tales, and Thurber gets to have a lot of fun getting there.
I found this to be a little too similar to the humor of Norman Juster's The Phantom Tollbooth for me to enjoy it wholeheartedly.
This one just doesn’t quite pop in quite the same way.
Still good, though, including these excellent lines:“The old man moaned and maundered, murmured, muttered, mumbled odds of this and ends of that, bits and pieces, shreds and edges, full of ifs and whens and theres and thens, amounting in the end and all to six times less than nothing.”“This heavish sweety fragrance,” Thag muttered to himself, “that rises, or that roses, isn’t fit for human noses, and it tricks the minds of men.
Three times two is eight,” he said, “and one is ten.”
This is a cute and silly little book. I was half asleep so I'm not sure what the program was, but I woke up just in time to hear two men alternately reading something by James Thurber on NPR a few mornings ago. My interest was piqued and I picked up a couple of his books at the library later that afternoon. I can't remember the other title, but I enjoyed them both. They were quick and easy to read ... entertaining without requiring much thought or attention. I liked the books, but didn't love them.
strong points are counterbalanced by silliness squared. a decent story, worthy conclusion, interesting characters and paced to completely read the short story in 90 minutes.on the counter side, the alliterations are out of control in a few places. some are clever, more are even grim worthy but the excess volume drains ones patience because the task overshadows the interpretation. and don't get me started on the names...The illustrations in my version are worth two more stars.worth the 1-2 hours to read through..
A charming little book that I rescued from a used books shelf for two bits. The wordplay in the chapter about Prince Thag's labor is amusing. Thurber's modelling-challenged drawings are part of the package: one gets the impression that he wrote a story around the three animals for which he could render a reasonable likeness. How is it that this volume hasn't been picked up by one of the Thurber anthologies?
A magical and wonderful fairy tale filled with princes princesses and Peculiar words. A fairy tale from the wild imagination of the great James Thurber and as the newspaper The Sphere once wrote ' A fairy tale for the young in heart of all ages '.
This was a pretty peculiar book. It was interesting and I did finish it, but I just wasn't really into it. I read it in a few hours. It was very short. At first I was paying attention but I started to glaze over. It was alright though.
A charming little fairy tale full of Thurber's signature wit and wordplay. The side characters are a real high point here - the royal recorder and doctor are delightfully silly. It's got a sort of mocking tone that you can tell comes from love of the genre, not distaste.
This was the one book my whole family coveted. It was given to my mother by my father. best darn fable everrrrrrrrr I used to take turns with others in my family rereading it. This was also a favorite of ours to read aloud by the fire. I am pretty sure I could recite this book by heart.
Wonderfully weird.
This is a cute, imaginative story. There's some of Thurber's word play and alliteration. I really enjoyed the doctor character who was his own patient. Pretty funny.
Oh Thurber.
