https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/977178.Dark_Laughter
This is think is still a popular childhood activity in most parts of Indiana.(Trailer!)In a future review (for Poor White), that may be written when you come across this one, but as off 11:11 on 1/2/11 has yet to be written, I will discuss the similarities between Sherwood Anderson and the anti-semetic uber-capitalist Ayn Rand, a discussion that would fit in this book too, but for now I will tackle the much more pertinent topic of Hipster-dom!(end Trailer!)HIPSTERS!Almost everyone in the world agrees about one thing, Hipsters suck.
Anderson is clearly under the influence of Joyce--even name-checking the Irish writer throughout the novel--in a baffling attempt to portray multiple perspectives, psychological turmoil, and the "inner journeys" that reflect characters' outer journeys.
(I could hear in my head the voice of Keanu Reeves from Bill and Ted: "All we are...is dust in the wind, dude.") It pains me to be so harsh on Anderson, since I loved Winesburg, and I know many young writers like Faulkner and Hemingway turned on him during this period.
I went into this reading experience hoping that Dark Laughter would be an unjustly dismissed lost gem, but soon discovered that Hemingway's parody in Torrents of Spring was, sadly, right-on-the-money.
I am old enough now to realize what a self-aggrandizing asshole Hemingway was, so I figured giving Sherwood a read first felt appropriate.Even though the author or characters or whomever repeat their thoughts over and over, the device somehow serves a purpose to propel me deeper into the darkness of the river deep.
The novel is floating down a river with only its memories and thoughts but when it looks behind or ahead of it, all it sees is darkness and all it hears is laughter.
Great, sparse, Hemingwayesque use of language.
Great character studies, especially the secondary characters like Sponge and the Parisian set.
Aline is a very interesting character too, while Bruce remains confused about his identity throughout and we also don't get a good sense of who he is.
Too bad we get no hint of Bruce and Aline's future in the end, and that their voices are silenced and instead we get pathetic Fred who is well described but one-dimensional.
One last point: interesting how to Aline, Bruce is a handsome savior figure, but to himself he is confused and aimless.
She may end up being disappointed again.
The story is made more interesting by including women in these occupational roles.The central character, Bruce Dudley (an alias), decides to "drop out" and pursue a "hands-on" profession that has more honor and satisfaction.
Regardless, neither he nor women in general feel any compunction about leaving their current relationship to pursue another.Flashbacks reveal the pasts of various characters that explain why they are the way they are today, and how they got there.
Obviously they have a different perspective on the trials and woes of the white "masters".Ernest Hemingway took great offense at the favorable reception that Dark Laughter received.
Racist, inept, dull. I gave up.
I suppose in 1925, the sex and race themes might have appeared rather racy.Bruce Dudley has left his wife, walked out on a journalism gig at a major Chicago newspaper because he thinks he's meant for better things.
A writer who never puts a word on paper, and we readers are condemned to swimming around in his unexpressed mind while Anderson indulges in Joycean/Whitmanesque prosody:The whole Middle American empire--swept by frequent and delicious rains, great forests, prairies on which early spring flowers grow like a carpet--land of many rivers running down to the slow strong mother of rivers, land to live in make love in, dance in.
It's in Paris after WWI where she meets her husband and decides to settle for becoming the wife of a rich and prominent small-town factory owner.
But it is no longer Sherwood Anderson's best remembered work, which is Winesburg, Ohio Today, it is probably best known for being what prompted Ernest Hemingway to write a highly critical parody of it, The Torrents of Spring.
When read alone, Laughter seems like an exercise in meandering time line and character confusion.
Scott Fitzgerald and Gertrude Stein, Hemingway in Torrents went out of his way to attack Anderson with his obvious parody making fun of his pretentious style and name dropping.
Hemingway may have been out of line but I do recommend reading both books for a good picture of what was happening to literature in that time period.
It's probably why I like him so much.CHAPTER TWO: Prior to reading this chapter ...
had read a review where someone stated it was a racist book ...
it's probably because of some of the wording in this chapter ...
however, you have to read this as if you are in the era it is being written where racism wasn't even a word yet ...
However, you can plainly see, if you so choose, that Anderson is not a racist or he could not write a line such as: "If you ain’t never been loved by a brown skin you ain’t never been loved at all." This is a great chapter to begin seeing the demise of America through the justified cause called "progress."
A rather convoluted story with a lot of racial slurs in it. I really didn't care for it.
I was finishing up reading Hemingway and found one last one called The Torrents of Spring that he wrote as a parody of Anderson's Dark Laughter.
They shared the same publisher at the time and Hemingway was trying to break his contract to move to Scribner to publish The Sun Also Rises.
At the time Anderson was their biggest name author so to force their hand he wrote his "next" book as a parody of the just published Dark Laughter which he knew they would not publish and would therefore force them to break his contract.
I had always assumed that “Winesburg, Ohio” had been his most successful, but, it turns out, that book received relatively little attention from the reading public when it was issued.
It is really more of a slate upon which Anderson wrote about the new freedoms and lifestyles available to man during this period after WW I.
It tells of Bruce Dudley’s escape from his boring life and wife in Chicago as he takes off to a small town in Indiana where he had originally grown up.
He was here one day and gone the next, with no information left with his wife, Bernice, as to where he was or how long he would be.
3.5 stars.I liked the story alright, a cheating tale in the 20s! but some of the stream-of-consciousness styled portions bordered on being unreadable (for me). This could have been a 5 star short story with some serious(!) editing. It has been interesting to see some of the major themes that Anderson was grappling with through his writing up to this point. Other Anderson work has said a lot more with a lot less words...
Anderson imitates Faulkner (and does it better), writing about a young newspaper reporter who chucks it all. Then there's the wife of the town tycoon who is vaguely dissatisfied, can't put her finger on what's wrong with her. Maybe you can see where this is going. Still, no cow patties in this book.Dark Laughter was Anderson's best seller, though the critics liked his Winesburg Ohio best. I've liked everything I read by Anderson. I like visiting his slower era, but I wouldn't want to live there, unless they had GPSes and blow dryers and pizza that Anderson forgot to mention.
Leggendo Riso nero non si può fare a meno di notare quanto il personaggio di John Stockton sia il risultato di una rielaborazione delle vicende personali dello scrittore americano. Pensandoci, anche uno dei protagonisti della raccolta Winesburg, Ohio – il giovane George Willard – ha questo ruolo. Sembra che Anderson abbia scritto sempre della stessa forza: quell'istinto di sopravvivenza che ti prende quando non riesci più a fingere di essere altro da quello che sei.Continua qui: http://www.scratchbook.net/2016/08/an...
The book got better with pages read. I have read some of Anderson's short stories and this seemed to be like a long version of one. I think his perception of human psychology was wonderfully accurate. I don't know if there are racial overtones of Anderson's output or if they were written in as a part of the characters times and prejudices. All in all, a worthy work. I couldn't detect the least bit of humor or lightness. Maybe again Sherwood's intent of story.
Oddly enough this was the only best seller during Anderson's career. Odd because its been for mostly out of print for the past 40 years. Its actually a fairly weak effort on his part, and has some serious racial overtones. Read Winesburgh, OH and forget this one.
It almost seemed like it couldn't have been written by Sherwood Anderson.
A good introduction to Sherwood Anderson as it is very autobiographical.
