https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/724693.St_Mawr
What the Hell was my library thinking.I remember, when I was younger, complaining to my mother about a stomach ache.
There it was - the feeling of impending doom descending on me as my mother reached for the bottle of Castor Oil. Now - I don't know if you've ever had the misfortune of actually tasting Castor Oil, but my understanding was that oil belonged in engines, not in human stomachs.
Maybe it was for mother's benefit, for while I had many stomach aches after that, I never complained again.So it was with D.H. Lawrence.
Loved this. Very evocative. Some massive themes tackled in a short novel: life, death, belief and so on, but the most compelling take-away is the beauty and cruelty of nature. The evocation of the powerful St. Mawr is most chilling."In the inner dark she saw a handsome bay horse with his clean ears pricked like daggers from his naked head as he swung handsomely round to stare at the open doorway. He had big, black, brilliant eyes, with a sharp questioning glint and that air of tense, alert quietness which betrays and animal that can be dangerous".
It's crazy to me how racist you can be (I guess this was in 1925) and still be considered great literature by the white men of today. Amazing. Anyways, St. Mawr had some really interesting things to say about women and male relationships that I think was probably super topical for the time, especially w/regards to casual sexual relationships and how those can potentially be empty etc etc but god damn was it racist. Oh and she totally wanted to have sex with her horse. Totally.
This is an interesting story that paints an emotional picture of a deteriorating marriage and other personal relationships between people in the aristocracy of 19th century Britain. This is combined with the magical presence of nature, embodied by the horse St. Mawr. I did not understand the ending, although that's often the case when I read Lawrence. I keep coming back for more because of his ability to describe things with such vivid realism, and combine that with elements that could be considered magical and surreal in a way that is wholly unique.
When Lou finds herself in the presence of St. Mawr, the beautiful and emblematic horse, she begins the process of pinpointing just why she is so unhappy.
In contrast, Lou finds that she can only find this inner vitality/genuine self in St. Mawr, and perhaps a bit in Louis and Phoenix, the groomsmen.
St. Mawr is the antithetical Rico; Lou’s husband is a handsome, nice, perfectly suitable (in his society) man.
He was afraid of himself, once he let himself go.” Lou’s realization that her relationships are pointless because they are artificial, compels her to follow her mother to America, where she begins to withdraw from society altogether.
Being by D.H. Lawrence is what drew me to the book, as I've been a fan of his since I heard his poem called Self-Pity.
"I never saw a wild thingsorry for itselfA small bird will drop frozen dead from a boughwithout ever having felt sorry for itself"After picking up the book, the following line made me want to read more of it."She, with her odd little museau, not exactly pretty, but very attractive; and her quaint air of playing at being well-bred, in a sort of charade game; and her queer familiarity with foreign cities and foreign languages; and the luring sense of being an outsider everywhere, like a sort of gipsy, who is at home any-where and nowhere: all this made up her charm and her failure.
She didn’t quite belong."I related to her (she says, narcissisticly).
Why should every book do that?
This book was similar to cider with Rosie, the book didn't need to go anywhere.
With st mawr I loved the new aspects approached on life, it was slightly disturbing but the ride Lewis, st mawr and lou's mother towards the end of the book was fascinating.
It was a little hard to read as the two women in the book were constantly searching for something and analysing the world of their day and it's faults; but it was a bit of an eye opener in a way
A masterful short story that explores the complicated Victorian relationships between men and women, as well as the animalistic streak in us all. His insight on human nature is extraordinary.
At times admirable, at times you wonder what Lawrence is after.Sad girl Lou, no illusions left, her mother Mrs DeWitt (Rachel) is quite a zestful creature for a long while and then exhausted and illusion-less as well.Phoenix is an interesting character who keeps himself to himself and more or less understands St Mawr.Rico is a dandy and almost a pansy.Then there is the farm in Texas at the end- a long and poetic evocation of wild and indomitable nature.
Lou got a little tedious. Typical Lawrence with beautiful descriptions. St Mawr is described as a marigold at one point.
Painful reading, only read it for our book club's upcoming September meeting in honour of Lawrence's birthday, 130years ago, Sep. 11, 1885.I remember loving Lady Chatterly's Lover and Women in Love and Sons and Lovers and The Rainbow about 40 years ago now...what has changed?
I think that my level of ennui, world weariness and cynicism was a match for DH Lawrence in my teens.
The book is very dated now and no longer shocks.
I found the 4 other short stories that accompanied St Mawr, equally evocative of disease: The overtone (again about a boring marriage) and The Willful Women and the Flying Fish (neither of which were completed, happily).
Enough Lawrence for me for lifetime!
The title is the name of a horse, bought by American heiress Lou for her husband, Australian and baronial heir, Rico.
After a stay in London, with much riding in Hyde Park, the couple decamp with Lou’s acerbic mother to the wilds of Wales, where Rico seems to be more interested in a female friend who lives nearby.
When St Mawr, who is very spirited, throws Rico, he ends up bed-ridden, and Lou decides she’s had enough.
There are also a pair of grooms, a taciturn Welshman who came with St Mawr, and the mother’s, who is a Native American.
I cannot really get into D H Lawrence. This is my third attampt at reading something of his. I did managed to get to the end of this one but it was actually quite a short story!!!I didn't have much interest in any of the characters apart from the mother of Lou. She started out very abrupt and softened later which made me want her to find the happiness she was looking for.I thought the ending was peculiar, it wasn't an ending, it was like the ending of a chapter and I wanted more.
Wacky story about a lady who buys a horse and is obsessed with him. My first D. H. Lawrence, and perhaps not his best. The thematic ideas of the text are certainly interesting and worth thinking about, but there is a lot of repetition that aggravated me (enough that I felt okay skimming, something I never condone). Looking forward to try some other Lawrence in the hopes I like it more.My rating: 3/5
The over-the-top emotionality and spirituality of nature as well as the quite racist descriptions of minorities compared to horses was a bit much for me, but the writing style was simple and, at times, beautiful and Lou's mom was a really interesting character, starting out as almost a caricature of a tough, smart woman and turning into a character with real depth.
The first half I really enjoyed. The story, the character setup, the ideas being introduced... but I found myself getting quite bored as I neared the end of the story. And I found the ending bizarre, a twist of plot that needn't have happened.
The stallion St. Mawr is half-wild, half-legend in the eyes of those who are sensitive to his being. Others think he'd be better if he were turned into a more manageable horse.
Thought-provoking, beautiful, with a typically insightful gaze into the human consciousness.
Beautiful.
For those like me who yearn for mountains and thunderstorms and untouchable beauty.
Bizarrely reverent, interesting use of place, strange use of sexual imagery
Pleasantly surprised.
Not the best of plots, nor the most consistent of works, but nonetheless beautiful and terrifying and profound.
can't really remember this except that it was about a horse.
This is a Lawrence book that takes several readings. Very complex but short and to the point. Thoroughly enjoyable and worth reading.
Ugh, read this in college and hated it (and that was before the all-nighter end-of-term-paper on it). I like horses and all, but the characters all make me want to slap them upside the head.
