https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/513828.Fish_is_Fish
كتاب الأطفال الذي يصنع الجدل هو المفضل عندي.
این کتاب، در ایمیل هفتگی متمم معرفی شده بود. داستانی است برای کودکان ولی خواندن آن خالی از لطف نیست. پیام جالبی دارد.
This is a cute little book. My only complaint is that it might be difficult for children to discern what the "moral" of the story is. I believe the author meant for it to be something along the lines of "do what you excel at rather than trying to be what you're not" but this could easily be misinterpreted as "don't pursue your dreams or you might die." Heh.
The moral seems very much that you should stick to your pond and to what you know - that the wider world is not for fish, only frogs.
The fish's desperate struggle for breath and his realisation that he is not allowed to partake in the exotic imagery his friend can hop freely to admire is not something I would want children to end a book on.
I want children to believe they can achieve and do and visit whatever they want.
Yes, we are all what we are and have the talents we have, but we can also visit and understand so much more than our own little pond.
Fish is Fish or Fish, know your place
A sweet book! Loved the illustrations!
There is a LOT of skill involved when you want to do those things and also tell a story that doesn't bore the everloving Pampers off of the target audience.
At first, when the tadpole is transforming and the minnow stays the same, I thought that the book would be a story about different life cycles.
Maybe this is a story that focuses on how sometimes our friends grow up and move away (appropos since we are coming to the end of the year and some kids are graduating)?
If you want a good children's story about fish, I recommend "The Rainbow Fish" or "Swim!
If you only look at this book as a prescriptive moral that teaches "know your place in this world and stick to it" then yes, you will give it one star.
However, if you look at the bigger picture here, and see it as a fable that shows how we tend to look at the world through our own narrow understanding (see previous sentence all those of you who have been disapproving of this book, haha) then you will see that we don't always understand that there is so much more out there to understand.
A story that tells grown-ups about how people learn. I've used it to illustrate how wrong the "peoples are blank slate" myth in education; instead, people come with their own understanding and misconceptions which they use when feeding new information. In the end, this is a book about constructivism.
As a literature teacher, it's important to always remember that a student doesn't always have the background knowledge to fully understand concepts and in this case, frame of reference is extremely important. The book was recommended by my principal who is a former kindergarten teacher and I enjoyed it with my 10 year old.
A sweet story about the world outside of our own pond. It's a bit philosophical and speaks to being content with your own life. Our girls really enjoyed this story and we read it together a couple of times.
My professor in my cultural diversity class read this to us in class. He used it to show us how we look at different cultures through the lenses of our own, which impacts how much we understand.
If we aren't thinking too hard, or attempting to be charitable in any way, we might interpret the message of Fish is Fish to be "know your place." Not very uplifting for children, sure.
Of course not.But here's the message I discuss with my students: learning about and experiencing worlds outside your own help you to appreciate the one you're coming from.
He doesn't linger on Fish's new appreciation for the pond.
So the first thought that occurs to the adult reader is that the outside world is dangerous and we should all know our place.
Fish is jealous of his friend, Frog, because Frog gets to go out into the big world.
My son kinda got bored with this story.
I love this tale of a fish and a tadpole who start life together in a pond.
When tadpole becomes a frog and moves onto a new life on land, fish is left alone until one day when the frog jumps in the pond for a visit.
He tells fish all about life on land, about birds, cows, and people.
But, fish imagines the birds, cows, and people in his own image because that is all he has ever known.
I especially love the drawings of the birds as fish imagines them, fish bodies with large, feathered, colorful wings and legs with feet.
I appreciate the fish using his imagination to create fish-birds etc which was beautiful and fun to look at.
Whilst reviewers seem to disagree over the author's intent, I am one of those who feel this book fails to be inspirational to children.A fish is a fish.
Moral - stay in your small world and make the most of it.
Whilst this is true, children reading this level of book shouldn't be told that their small known world is enough for them.
They should be told that they can think outside the box, they can explore, use their imagination but also venture out and the whole universe is open to them.
Fish and Tadpole are best friends, but when Tadpole becomes a frog and goes to shore, Fish is left alone.
Ever the faithful friend, the frog happily returns to regale Fish with stories all about life on land.
The intrigued Fish is determined to go to shore, too.
This reprint of the 1970 tale is formatted for young readers.This is a lovely story of friendship and making the best of a situation.
I particularly enjoyed the part where the frog described people, birds, and cows -- all of which fish pictured as being, well, fish-like.
Could be used to introduce and practice imaging (visualizing) - the fish sees all the different creatures that the fog describes as fish with added features - discussion of how our view of the world is determined by what we know. Classifying different types of animals - as LA skill (semantic mapping) to develop word meaning and as a science-related skill.Also could be used to develop beginning number sense in pre-K, K students by counting the number of legs, wings, etc. of different animals. Connecting the number to concrete items is very beneficial in developing that beginning number sense.
As a Life Skills teacher this book has come to mean so much to me and my students. The way the fish interprets frog’s adventures from his own schema is amazing as vividly portrayed in the illustrations. All of my students have very different schema from their peers. Their experiences with hospitals, the challenges their disabilities afford them, and the list goes on and on. I am amazed at what they do with the information I provided them in class. It’s is as beautiful as the fish’s imagination!
This is a great book about the ocean that includes lots of beautiful illustrations. The illustrations show a lot of texture, so it could be used before an art lesson to teach textures. It would also be a great tool in a science lesson on the stages that frogs go through from tadpole to adult frog. This book could also be used to illustrate how all people are different, and those differences are what make you special.
I love this book for many reasons, but mostly for the message it portrays ... that experiences in life are context dependent. Those may seem like big words for a kid, but the book does a very nice job of illustrating how our understanding is guided by our own experiences and life. And the pictures are well done, cute, fun, and funny.As an educator, I use this book in professional development to succinctly depict context dependency for students in learning environments.
This is a great topic starter for science in elementary school or even a concept overview in writing; how one's perspective may be different based upon where they have been and seen in the world. There are numerous ways to use this book in a classroom!
우물 안 개구리로 살아야하는거야?흙수저는 흙수저로 계급을 유지하라
A reread for me in preparation for a read-aloud.
Adults know that friendships don't last forever, but children do not, and it's very difficult to prepare a child for the fact that friends will change in ways that will alter or end a friendship.
The frog warned him that attempting to do so was beyond his physical limitations, but this way something the fish had to discover for himself.
The frog grows into full form and isn't seen by his minnow friend for a very long time, when the frog returns he explains to the fish that there are cows, and birds, and people outside the water.
Thr fish is gasping for help and luckily enough, his frog friend is nearby and helps him back into the water.
The cow, birds and people were all drawn as fish, very funny.
I think this is great for elementary age students particularly 2nd-4th grade, it tells a good story, while being humorous at the same time.
While I quite liked it, I'm of two minds about this story.
While frog is able to go out and explore the world, fish nearly dies when he attempts to leave the pond.
Is the story then telling us that some are fit to go out into the world and have adventures while others need to stay in their place?In the end, fish rationalizes this by saying that his world (the pond) is the best and most beautiful.
This could be read as simply sour grapes, since fish had previously been so excited about the outside world that he lost sleep.
This book is about a fish and a tadpole that become friends.
As they get older, the tadpole begins to turn into a frog and the fish is very confused becuase he was basically just a fish.
Once the tadpole becomes a full fledged frog, the fish jumps out of the water becuase he thinks he can do whatever the frog does, not realizing that he is a fish and has to be in water to survive.
This is a book about a tadpole that turns into a frog and gets to explore the world.
His friend the fish feels bad because he is not able to explore the world the same way as the frog.
He tries to jump out of the water to see what the frog sees but needs to get right back in the pond because he cannot breathe.
Once he gets back in the water, he sees that the world he can see is the most beautiful world for him.I gave this book three stars because I feel the story line was very basic and they could have done more with it They could have had the frog and fish talk about how their world are the same but different, etc.(Picture Book)
