https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61551.The_Open_Society_and_Its_Enemies_Volume_Two
The future will be inevitably worse, part of the predictable degeneration from the original ideal thought Plato, a pessimist, while Hegel and Marx, optimists, thought improvement was the rule.Hegel is all but entirely dismissed by Popper as a pretentious windbag writing difficult if not unintelligible prose about a world spirit moving through the ages coming to fruition in the the glorious Prussian monarchy by which Hegel was employed to philosophize for the state.
Where Marx falls down, Popper writes, is in his prediction of the inevitable demise of capitalism at the feet of the proletariat (the working people) and his far too simplistic view of society as composed of only two classes, the workers and the bourgeoisie (the employers/capitalists).
Popper fled the Nazi takeover of Austria, and set out to write a book that would somehow fight bad ideologies.
Popper argues that we need to realize that Plato chose Sparta over Athens, and every other vaguely cosmopolitan city.
Popper then moves on to show Plato worshiping that lifestyle in The Republic.
Popper links this belief of Plato The heart of Open Society is the criticism of any philosophy or theory of history that claims to know the future.
Branding these philosophies ‘Historicism,’ he argues that Marxism by arguing that history moves in stages (feudal, capitalist, communist) makes itself unable to choose a better world.
كما كان ماركس، يعتقد بأن النبوءة التاريخية هي الطريقة العلمية لمعالجة المشكلات الاجتماعية وهو ما ينتقده بوبر.هو أحد رواد حلقات عصبة الهيغليين التي انشق عنها فيما بعد مؤلفاً فلسفته الخاصة به.ماركس الذي لا يرى وجوداً للدولة بل يؤسس لزوالها.* هيغل هو أحد أهم الفلاسفة الألمان، حيث يعتبر أهم مؤسسي حركة الفلسفة المثالية الألمانية في أوائل القرن التاسع عشر الميلادي.
الأكثر من هذا، حدسه وبصيرته الباطنية بطبيعة الأشياء وليس تعقلها، هو الذي يجعل منه عالماً عظيما ً."‏-كارل بوبرختاماً:يؤكد بوبر في ( المجتمع المفتوح وأعداؤه) على مدى بؤس الفلسفة التاريخانية التي تدعي أنها تمتلك مفاتيح التاريخ أو ما سيؤول له.كذا أراد من خلال الكتاب إبراز حق الفرد أمام حق الدولة، والتأكيد على حقوقه كفرد واعٍ مستقل ومتحرر من كل تبعية قصرية أو عمياء .
"إن الأصرار على أقامة الجنة على الأرض لم ينتج سوى الجحيم"في ظني أن العنوان الأدق للكتاب هو"أعداء المجتمع المفتوح"،كون الكتاب قائم على تخليل أبرز الفلسفات التاريخانية(أفلاطون في الجزء الأول،هيجل وماركس هنا) وبيان تهافت بناءها المنطقي واللذي هدد مشروعها كله ليس فقط بالأنهيار بل بالضد التام لنتائجه.....
We need an ethics which defies success and reward.
And such an ethics need not be invented.
It has been taught by Christianity, at least in its beginnings.
We must be taught to do our work; to make our sacrifice for the sake of this work, and not for praise or the avoidance of blame.
(The fact that we all need some encouragement, hope, praise, and even blame, is another matter altogether.) We must find our justification in our work, in what we are doing ourselves, and not in a fictitious ‘meaning of history’.History has no meaning"
From Plato to Hegel, the philosopher king is the summit of socialism everywhere, a system in which the "good" thinker knows what is best for all individuals.
Karl Popper prefers the free society and counts neo-Platonism among his enemies.
Having been raised in an authoritarian Communist culture in Austria, Popper rejected "historicism" in ascertaining that the growth of human knowledge is a causal factor in the evolution of human history, and since "no society can predict, scientifically, its own future states of knowledge", it follows, he argued, that there can be no predictive science of human history.
For Popper, metaphysical and historical indeterminism go hand in hand.
While Popper's critiques on the dangers of total ideas can be helpful, but ultimately this is a fairly vapid critique.
The result was a book that I labored to get through, as opposed to Vol. I, which I was consistently thrilled to pick up.Although not an integral part of his criticism, Popper's treatment of Hegel's dialectic theory left me scratching my head.
Marx was right in insisting that increased productivity is the only reasonable hope of humanizing labour, and of further shortening the labour day.
Throughout the book, Popper uses language that implies an act of violence toward the natural world.
This is, after all, one of the main points of his rationalism, that we use reason to cooperate with our fellow humans.
Well written, and some interesting insights, but generally disingenuous towards Hegel and Marx, and I think unfairly and quite incorrectly attributes 'methods' to them that are not quite right, but which become convenient anchors for Popper to "deconstruct" them and show their inherrant weaknesses.In this regard he is dishonest and disappointing. But like many conservatives, his criticisms do apply to a certain clique within the left, and no doubt has won him many admirers.
- thinking in the solving problems need logics or an experience? - are we should trade one way? - are we all search for many answers at same time? - is there an answer without a question?
Popper bunun ırkçı bir yaklaşım olduğunu söylese de orta çağın soylu-ruhban-köylü ayrımına veya kast sistemine daha çok benzer.
(Bu Hegel'in ahlak anlayışına oldukça benzer.)Platon ortada bulunan bir soruna bir çözüm üretme amacındadır.
Popper sıfırdan bir düzen tasarlamaya karşı olduğu gibi devleti bir makine ve bireyi bunun dişlisi olarak gören sisteme de karşı.
Popper'a ve Hobbes gibi aynı geleneği takip eden filozoflara göre devlet, bireyler arasında bir anlaşma olmalıdır.
Bu anlayışla hareket eden ulusların olduğu bir dünyada hiçbir zaman barış ve huzur olamayacağı da açıktır.Büyük ölçüde Hegel etkisinde kalan Marx ise tarihi bir sınıflar mücadelesi olarak ele alır.
Marx da Platon gibi var olan bir soruna çözüm üretmek amacındadır.
بفرض هم که توانسته باشیم منطقا صحت فلان شاخص مطلق یا مجموعه دستورهای اخلاقی را مبرهن سازیم به نحوی که بر مبنای منطق بتوانیم به دیگری ثابت کنیم که چگونه باید رفتار کند، باز هم او ممکن است اعتنایی نکند یا در جواب بگوید: ((من کوچکترین علاقه ای به بایدها یا قواعد اخلاقی شما ندارم، کما اینکه براهین منطقی یا نظریات شما در ریاضیات پیشرفته کمترین تفاوتی به حال من ایجاد نمی کند.)) بنابراین، حتی برهان منطقی نیز تغییری در این وضع نمی دهد که فقط کسی تحت تاثیر دلایل اخلاقی (یا هر دلیل دیگری) قرار می گیرد که حاضر باشد اینگونه امور را جدی تلقی کند و چیز تازه ای در این باره بیاموزد.
I know that many people have taken issue with Popper's treatment of Hegel, but from the (admittedly little) familiarity I have with Hegel's philosophy my sympathies would have to lie with Popper.Popper also provides an excellent and lengthy addendum detailing his theory of knowledge, which was an unexpected but welcomed addition.My one criticism is that Popper praises Marx's anti-psychologism in sociology as one of his greatest contributions to modern social theory (that is, the position that sociology is not ultimately reducible to psychology).
Both positions are critiqued, and one is the better for reading Popper's excellent work.
Atacând aceste "profeții" marxiste, Karl Popper denaturează doar o parte a acestei complexe mașinării sociale, căci în ciuda revoltei sale împotriva punctelor slabe, acesta evocă și unele puncte forte ale lui Marx dând exemple cum o parte din ideile sale se regăsesc la baza societăților moderne.
Karl Popper merită citit nu pentru a căuta răspunsuri stabile ci pentru a căuta modalități de supune criticii ceea ce se acceptă de la sine, ideile platonice, aristotelice, hegeliene și marxiste au fost în cea mai mare parte a derulării istoriei niște idei larg acceptate fără fărâmă de îndoiala asupra adevărului lor.
So when in a book store, i search it out but ended up buying this one .
Now here was a philosopher who didn't need to use big terms to impress you.
And he ask the really important question-how open in terms of individual rights does a citizen have within a society.
When he gets to Marx it is almost humorous how he does maybe a 40 page disclaimer that he is really on his side, but couldn't predict allot of things that might have shaped his thinking.
I have since read a couple of his books and always walk away thinking better than when i went in.
Still reading currently. Will definitely have more to say about it when I'm done. Given the time frame this is written in, Popper is talking about issues between liberal democracy and the communism-based totalitarian states. But really, a lot of what he's talking about is also applicable to religion and tribalism-based totalitarianism and is, thus, still pretty relevant today.
I thought that this book was great (both Volume 1 and 2, although people more frequently refer to Volume 2, likely since it discusses Marxism which seems to be more near and dear to people's hearts). Popper wrote The Open Society during World War II when he thought that Europe might soon be under a totalitarian regime.
don't agree with the angry man at all, but a good read.
It changed my mind about old good Plato. About Marx and Hegel, my mind had been changed beforehand!
This is the second part (the cover isn't correct, but oh well), and it's equally good. You should read this if you're uninspired to read anything else.
very plausibly skips over 25 centuries to tie marxism directly into plato.
A book to learn more about marxism and democracy
Volume 2, dealing with Hegel and Marx, with an in-depth critique of the moral theory of historicism and whether history has any meaning, in light of oracular philosophy and the revolt against reason.
In Vol 2 of The Open Society, Popper describes how the historicist approach of Hegel forms the foundation of facism and how the historicist approach of Marx - never mind its good intentions - led to immense suffering.
According to Popper, Marx makes two mistakes: (1) the revolution hasn't come to pass and it is perfectly possible to alleviate the sufferings of the poor by social piecemeal engineering (creating rational, fair institutions) instead of violent revolutions that will lead to new oppression.
It is equally important that institutions are not aimed at providing a better life for people - this leads inevitably to enforcing one's view of "what is good?" on society as a whole (i.e. totalitarianism).

Modern totalitarianism is only an episode within the perennial revolt against freedom and reason. From older episodes it is distinguished not so much by its ideology, as by the fact that its leaders succeeded in realizing one of the boldest dreams of their predecessors; they made the revolt against freedom a popular movement.
Interesting but uneven. I'm not overly familiar with the material than Popper is critiquing but as ever a lot of it may be an idiosyncratic interpretation or very focused take on certain aspects. Popper feels on safer territory when he turn to a more general discussion of historicism towards the end of the book.
Must Read! Intelligenr, witty, important.I finally understood the reactionary philosophy of Hegel leading to two world wars and how the profound analyses of Marx could turn (or be turned) into the totalitarism of Stalin.
actually read Logic Scientific Discovery. Referred by Soros. Historic theory.
The greatest work, in any field, I have yet read.
