https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6777616-the-weed-that-strings-the-hangman-s-bag
With book two I picked it up already convinced I would like it and I wasn't disappointed.
Her sisters Daphne and Ophelia known with a bit of venom as Daffy and Feely are in an on going conflict with Flavia.
The problem for the sisters is Flavia has more than an interest in poisons bordering on an obsession.
Flavia is over the space of the first two books in a battle with herself over whether she should just get it over with and poison her sisters.
This story meandered way too much to keep my interest, and I thought the plot was dreadfully thin.
Lots of window dressing and trying too hard to be cute.
It felt very much like a 70-something-year-old man trying to sound like an 11-year-old girl.
And of course, that's exactly what it is, but it wasn't so noticeable in The Sweetness at the Bottom of the Pie. You have to read nearly half the book before the actual mystery is introduced, and then the story continues to wander hither and yon.
Am I the only one who noticed this?
The fun of these books is the delightful fantasy of Eng-er-land post-WWII seen through the eyes of eleven-year-old Flavia, daughter of decayed privilege.The murdered man, a puppeteer/drug dealer, *richly* deserved killing, which always makes a mystery more fun for me.
His relict, of sorts, is of course a suspect, but her Delicate Condition (which Flavia suspects, and confirms by a chemical test that I'd never heard of before) ends up eliminating her...and shortly after she is in the clear, she buggers off somewhere...but I suspect that she'll be back.The murderer, when identified, made me smile.
Flavia returns! Oh, delicious young poisoner Flavia de Luce, cousin to Wednesday Addams, Sherlock Holmes as an 11 year-old girl. A delight.
It's summer in Bishop's Lacey, the little village outside of which eleven-year-old Flavia de Luce lives with her father and two older sisters in the old family manor, Buckshaw.
(p 112)I like the little world of Bishop's Lacey, and I feel like Bradley's writing is better in this book than the last one—or maybe I was just paying better attention—I really enjoyed the descriptions of, say, the cool damp forest and all its plant life, or the wonder of looking down from above at a well-constructed puppet theater, the magic of it.
I love this series, especially the feisty 11 year old Flavia deLuce at the centre of it all.
Of course things might be different if her mother hadn't died at her birth and it was left to her distant father and two hateful sisters (who Flavia may end up poisoning before the series ends) to bring her up.
Her obsession with poisons and vast knowledge of chemistry also makes her exceptionally good at picking up the forensic clues that the police miss.
This is a stronger plot than the first book in the series involving a puppeteer, some illegal substances and the death of a small boy some years previously.
And, thinking of ways of killing people with poisons..especially her sisters.
Her love for chemistry shows through the book and she is especially fond of poisons.
But of course, she is still just eleven and even though she is clever there are moments when she doesn't understand things, grow up things like secret relations between grown-ups and I love Dogger when he tries to explain that it's when two people are really good friends.
And, in this book her aunt Felicity shows up, but I think that Flavia, in the end, came to appreciate her visiting, especially after they had a talk alone.
I liked the first book a little more.
I think the mystery was better crafted in the first book.
I think they are jealous because she is more like their mother than they are.
I think her obsession with poisons became a way to deal with the loss of her mother and the de facto rejection by her family (more out of her father's preoccupation and her older sisters' treatment of her).Small town English life in the 50s is fascinating.
As with any small town, lots of dirty little secrets.
I am looking forward to more Flavia mysteries.
The Weed That Strings the Hangman's Bag is the 2nd book in the Flavia De Luce series.
I liked the novel less than the first one as I could not connect with the characters in the beginning and I was a little bit annoyed by Flavia.
For those who do not know this series, it is about a 12 years old girl living in an old English mansion with her father and two sisters after the 2nd World War. Flavia is very curios, attentive to details and has a passion which is not so normal for young girls, namely chemistry, and specializes in poisons.
I think I liked this second book even better than I did the first book in the series, even though I didn’t get to experience the same novelty of Flavia as a character.I love Flavia and Flavia’s narration.
It helps to have a very warped sense of humor to enjoy this mystery series, and I am the proud possessor of a warped sense of humor, which allows me to enjoy all sorts of humor.I knew too much about the mystery too soon, sort of, but the whole joy of this series is Flavia as a character and her highly entertaining and hilarious narration.
This series is growing on me. Flavian is such an engaging, quirky character as are the rest of her household. The mystery to be solved was a good one. The idea of an eleven year old running rings round the police force and inspector works well.and although she's so feisty and independent, we still see how affected she is by her mother's death as well as the horrible things her sisters say to her. I loved the family's first experience with the one eyed monster too ( the TV)- an historically accurate snippet.
Even better than the first one, "The Weed that Strings the Hangman's Bag" was so lovely!!!
These books are so unique because what Alan Bradley does is takes his readers through layers of imagination.
When I read his books I literally see everything and I'm transported to a different time.
He is so great at writing characters and setting its so fun and fantastic!
Little Flavia is one of the best written characters in any book I've read and I can't wait to read more!!!
This series is starting to become one of my favorites of all time and one I'm hoping to pass on and on....
Flavia's older sisters Ophelia and Daphne constantly taunt her by telling her she was adopted or that her mother did not love her, which almost brings poor Flavia to tears.
But she puts her chemistry skills to use for revenge by mildly poison them with sulfur dioxide in the chocolates suitor Ned left for Felly.
The family cook, Mrs. Mullet with her poor culinary skills nearly poisons the entire family daily with her English cooking.In this second book in the series, it is 1950 and a popular BBC puppeteer and womanizer, Rupert Porson, master of Snotty the Squirrel, comes to town to give a puppet show.
(And yes, I do sometimes select a book to read by its cover which is the main reason I picked up "The Sweetness...It had a crow on the cover and I am a huge corvoid fan!).I just learned that there is a new Flavia book out and an totally looking forward to reading it.Anyways, how can you not like a writer who pens: "If you remember nothing else, remember this: Inspiration from outside one's self is like the heat in an oven.
But inspiration from within is like a volcano: It changes the face of the world." (from "The Weed that..." pg 203)and then there is:"Seen from the air, the male mind must look rather like the canals of Europe, with ideas being towed along well-worn towpaths by heavy-footed dray horses.
Give me resistance, give me marching in the streets, and then give me books about an eleven-year-old chemist who rides her bike around the village solving crimes and threatening to poison her sisters for the end of the day when all I want is to try to take my mind off of how fucking shameful & reprehensible my country is.
I have heard good things about this series from others. I decided to finally give it a chance. Unfortunately my library didn't have the first volume, but they did have the second volume and that is where I started. This feels like a stand alone mystery, so I didn't feel like I was missing anything. Flavia is a likable character. It is hard to remember she is only 11 years old. She is a great detective and chemist and is sure to do good things as she gets older. I think this will be a fun series for me.
3.5-4/5
I skipped the other 2 books I have out from the library to dive right into this! One of my favorite lines in this book, "Take myself, for instance: I am often thought of as being remarkably bright, and yet my brains, more often than not, are busily devising new and interesting ways of bringing my enemies to sudden, gagging, writhing, agonizing death." Oh Flavia! Such a funny, smart ass. And she's only 11! Another delightful murder mystery in which Flavia de Luce is miles ahead of the police. Very enjoyable.
Another lovely and funny Flavia de Luce mystery.One afternoon Flavia stumbles upon a traveling puppet show van at the local church's graveyard.
Of course, Flavia doesn't hesitate to befriend the famous puppeteer Rupert Porson and his beautiful (and pregnant) assistant.
And if it's a murder, who would have a reason to kill a traveling performer?
Naturally, only Flavia is able to untangle this mess.This book is simply a pleasure to read.
It takes quite a few pages to get to the murder (almost half of the book).
It took me a little while to get into this one, which surprised me, because I liked the first book in the series so much.
He’s good at managing a large cast of supporting characters and endowing them with the same sense of authenticity (and eccentricity, which is where the real fun is).This story had Flavia encountering her family quite a bit less, which is fine with me as it’s not yet clear to me why Bradley feels it’s so important to have her sisters be so cartoonishly mean.
Oh Flavia, you and your poison...This second installment in the Flavia De Luce series was a bit slower than the first (the murder doesn't even occur until half-way through the book!) but more revealing of the De Luce family background, which made up for the slower start.
The mysteries are told from the viewpoint of a very precocious, highly intelligent child.
As a child, she's still somewhat invisible, therefore she's "safe." People talk.
The charm of the Flavia mysteries lies not in the complexity of the story, (because it's not very complex,) but in the way she's such a strange little outsider, living her mostly unsupervised life in a somewhat fractured and detached family.
Jo Alan Bradleyn ensimmäinen, suloisesta myrkynkeittäjästä Flavia de Lucesta kirjoittama teos Piiraan maku makea hurmasi, ja sarjan toinen osa Kuolema ei ole lasten leikkiä jatkaa samalla tasokkaalla ja koukuttavalla linjalla.Bishop's Laceyyn saapuu kuuluisa nukketeatteritaitelija Rupert Porson.
Flavia on pikkuvanha, mutta ei ollenkaan rasittava sellainen.
Tyttöjen isä Haviland on taloudellisissa ongelmissa ja hänen sisarensa Felicity saapuu paikalle selvittämään tilannetta.
Flavia ei pidä tädistään, mutta saa kuulla tältä yllättäviä tietoja äidistään.
Teksti virtaa eheästi ja pysähdyinkin usein lukemaan joitakin kohtia uudelleen, sillä niin taidokkaasti hän on pystynyt välittämään alkuperäisen teoksen sanoman.
Kirjoitin parhaita kohtia A4-kokoiseen sitaattivihkooni neljän ja puolen sivun verran, mukana mm.
I don't read many mystery books, but I am hooked on this series--and have gotten my mom hooked as well.
In this second book, 11-year-old Flavia continues her adventures in the British countryside where she roams wild with her unhealthy interest in murder and poison.
In this book, a visiting puppeteer is murdered, and the cast of suspects is wide.
Not only does Flavia set out to solve the puppeteer's murder, but that of a local young boy who was found hanged several years before.
[return][return]I will continue to seek out books in this series.
I can't tell you how much it bothers me to have an eleven-year-old thinking things like "As if they had been sucked in through my pores by osmosis, I knew even as they swept over me that I was hearing the bitter words of an old man to a love far younger than himself." How can she know that?
Nothing about her home life suggests she could possibly know these things, and "Daffy read that book to us that one time" is used far too often as a justification for her worldliness.
It was too meandering, full of far too many coincidences, and the big reveal fell flat for me.I'll probably read more, but Bradley really does need to get Flavia's character sorted out.
I have to say, Alan Bradley's ability to evoke a time and place is simply amazing.
Whether I enjoyed the mystery or not I would probably read this series just for the opportunity to escape to these small towns in 1950s England.IF you adored the SWEETNESS AT THE BOTTOM OF THE PIE I hardly think you need me to urge you on to read Flavia #2.
First, there's the time-and-place enjoyment as I mentioned.
But I would add to that that I thought the mystery was better done in this book.
Flavia de Luce is one of the most delightful characters to come along in contemporary mystery fiction in some time.
Introduced to this charming character in The Sweetness at the Bottom of the Pie, she continues to entertain and engage the reader in this second novel of the series.
Bradley in his writing, full of wit and humor, is able to spin tales that are totally absorbing, literally the kind you don't want to put down and can't wait to pick up again.
The reader is definitely left hungry for more, and this reader is thinking it will be a long year waiting for the next Flavia novel.
Their van having broken down there, puppeteer Rupert Porson decides to put on two shows at the Vicarage Hall, a matinee for the children and another in the evening for everyone else.
All is not right between Porson and his assistant (also girlfriend) Nialla, and Flavia soon finds that while the van breaking down may have been accidental, Porson is not a stranger to Bishop’s Lacey.
The matinee show is a great hit, but when Flavia and her family return for the evening show, Rupert is killed just as he is ending the show.
Flavia is searching for clues to solve the murder of Rupert Porson who met his untimely end thanks to a current of electricity during a puppet show.
Surprisingly that wasn't the only shocking thing to happen at the show.
The puppet for Jack and the Beanstalk had an uncanny resemblance to Robin, a young boy who died tragically in their small town a few years ago.
Puppet and puppeteer both leave the people of Bishop's Lacey shaken.Is there a connection between the puppeteer and the death of Robin?Leave it to Flavia, history's greatest fictitious 11 year old detective, to solve the case!
Splendid. Better than the first part, which was already really good. Flavia is a lovely character, but the other cast is full of interesting people. The crime that has happened is a curious one, with lots of fuzzy detail, but the little chemist Flavia manages to figure everything out, as usual.
The characters in the book are quirky and eccentric enough to keep a smile on my face and the story flows really well.My only reservation is that Flavia at times is a bit too precocious for an eleven year old.
While in may ways she is a child and acts as one, she seems to be a bit too wise when it comes to solving a crime, and, this stretches the imagination the most, understanding the motivations of adults.I personally could also do with the at times very elaborate descriptions of chemical experiments and compounds.But, despite these two, minor, issues I do enjoy these books and the character of Flavia a lot.
