https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12557.The_Kitchen_God_s_Wife
Amy Tan writes about women (complex women!) and I think that’s one of the things I love about her books.
I found this closed women’s world wonderfully refreshing, especially after reading so many books where men are the main focus.
They were from two different worlds, and this separate view reminded me of Winnie, the main protagonist in The Kitchen God’s Wife.
The love and pain they feel is universal, and I found myself quite choked up at the end, thinking about the friends and family that are in my own women’s world.
If you’ve never read a Tan book, you’ll be instantly transported to a new world.
Winnie, Pearl's mother, faces this dilemma.
Winnie's dearest friend Helen is threatening to tell Pearl all of the secrets of Winnie's early years in China.
So Winnie decides to tell Pearl her life story before Helen does.
Because of course Helen would not tell it correctly anyway.But Pearl has a secret of her own.
Will hearing her mother's secrets give her the courage to share hers?This book was sometimes quite painful to read.
I promised my mother that I would take her this book in May. She recently discovered Tan's work when she read The Bonesetter's Daughter.
great story about a relationship between a mother and daughter.
we all, to some degree, struggle with our relationships with our mothers.
this book made me look deeply at my own relationship with my mom and got me thinking about how much about my mom and her life that i still don't know.
my mom is reading this now and we've had some great conversations about this and what it means to our own relationship.
this is a wonderful story about (1) the incredible love of a mother; (2) cultural assimilation and native cultures; (3) the rise of communist china; (4) a woman's fight for self-determination and empowerment; (5) surviving domestic violence.
I read this book for the Goodreads' Book Club: Diversity in All Forms!
If you'd like to join the discussion here is the link: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...This book is an extremely short read.
The story takes a huge turn when Winnie shares what her life was like in China.
This is a sad, but eye-opening story that is definitely realistic fiction!"Winnie and Helen have kept each other's worst secrets for more than fifty years.
And so begins Winnie's story of her life on a small island outside Shanghai in the 1920s, and other places in China during World War II, and traces the happy and desperate events that led to Winnie's coming to America in 1949."
The book starts out in contemporary America, and is narrated by Pearl – a second generation Chinese emigrant, who is trying to balance her own 21st century American family life with the needs of her Chinese mother and her mother’s friends.
From the third chapter on the narrating is taken over by Winnie, Pearl’s mother, and it transforms into being the story of her life – told against the background of her living in Shanghai in the 1930s and 40s, under the Kuomintang, but with the Communists already making their presence felt, and her experiences with the Japanese invasion of Shanghai .
What I learned from this book--my favorite part:"Isn't that how it is when you must decide with your heart? You are not just choosing one thing over another. You are choosing what you want. And you are also choosing what somebody else does not want, and all the consequences that follow. You can tell yourself, That's not my problem, but those words do not wash the trouble away. Maybe it is no longer a problem in your life. But it is always a problem in your heart."
Finally, both Winnie's and Pearl's life stories are interesting and worth reading, even if I think that on Winnie’s side of things there was some exaggeration.
Not in the sense that these kind of terrible things described in Winnie’s life story didn’t use to happen to women, and probably still do for that matter, but in the sense that it felt excessive to include that amount of trauma and put it all on the shoulders of one character.This novel seems better developed and more mature than Tan’s first, yet somehow I still liked it a bit less than The Joy Luck Club.
The WWII in China is merely a backdrop for the protagonist's personal drama of epic proportions; suffice to say that when something very bad, but not exactly cruel, happened (view spoiler)[(one of protagonist's children dies, quite straightforwardly, of plague) (hide spoiler)], I felt relief.Winnie (the protagonist's new, American name) was married to a psychopath.
Throughout the book, she has to cope with humiliation, degradation, and a plethora of personal tragedies (view spoiler)[: she is repeatedly, regularly raped, humiliated by her husband in private and in front of their friends, loses children because of her husband's violence and cruelty - directly and indirectly (hide spoiler)].
Maybe its because I just finished it, but I really liked this book.
As with many of the books we read, Winnie has had a hard life, almost horrific in some respects but the reason I love her is that the story isn't tragic, she doesn't complain about it (too much), or make herself out to be a hero, well except maybe in her own mind.
The things they go through, the love/hate relationship, its like a dramatic or disfunctional version of I love Lucy, its makes it so much easier to connect to these characters and a much more enjoyable read.
I get it......but I had to suspend my disbelief a bit at the end in a plot involving a final confrontation with the villain......
Some loose ends didn't quite get tied up.
But this is worth diving into headfirst -- Tan is a writer who's conversational style of narrati0n is so good, she takes you directly to the villages and cities in war-torn China so well, you're totally immersed in the story.
The novel works as an inter-generation immigrant story as well as historical fiction and family drama -- if you like these types of fiction, you'll probably think this is worth a read.
As most of Tans books, this book deals with family history, relationships, some cultural history of China, the life of women in China and assimilation to the United States.Winnie and her friend Helen have a kept a secret for most of their lives, Winnie's daughter Pearl also has a secret she has been keeping from her Mother.
Winnie decides that she will tell her daughter what she has kept secret from her.Winnie's story is set on a small island outside of Shanghai in the 20's but she moves to other locations in China prior to coming to the United States in 1949.Winnie's story is a sad one, born to a beautiful mother who one day disappeared she is sent to live with a distant relative, he way of life changes drastically.
I read this book years ago (okay decades). As with the other books I've read by this author, a lot of untold sorrows with a sort of redemption at the end. Good book.
This is my favorite of Amy Tan's books. I loved it!
I adore the way Amy Tan intertwines more than one story line into her books, at first glance it seems that the tale centers on Pearl, the daughter of a Chinese immigrant, who has morphed into the modern American culture and who finds her mother annoying and old fashioned at times.
Once the reader gets familiar with Pearl the story then turns back to her mother, Winnie and her childhood friend Helen.
It was a story about family and secrets and interaction - but then the interaction stopped and with no segue a woman is talking about her history and the abuse she endured and war and infant mortality...
it's not clear if she's having 'an episode', if she's talking TO someone, or what.I began forwarding through random (long) chunks to try to get past this depressing and (so far) pointless wander down the lane of memories not happy - but it seemed to never stop!
Past the halfway point of the (abridged) book, I finally had had enough.
I'm sure someone is enlightened or enriched or empowered by this kind of story.
Acesta este un roman care mi-ar fi plăcut să nu se termine prea curând. Este un volum care mi-a predat despre viață și femei puternice în 598 de pagini, care mi-a facilitat incursiunea într-o țară ce pare că a rămas cu aceleași mentalități prezente și în secolul XX (perioada în care este plasată acțiunea acestei cărți), un roman care m-a înduioșat cu grația autoarei de a prezenta momente triste și clipe luminoase deopotrivă, un roman care și-a câștigat cu siguranță un loc în topul celor mai bune citite în anul acesta.https://ancasicartile.wordpress.com/2...

I love this book. Winnie is so brave. She was stuck with an evil, horrible husband. She went through WW2. Her daughter didn't know all of this about her so she tells her all that she went through. It's a great book about revealing secrets and her daughter learns to admire her mother's strength and find the same in herself. Also, why do so many folks have to marry horrible, awful people?
Most of the book (all the chapters narrated by Winnie) almost feels like a letter, as there is no dialogue.
It allowed Winnie to tell her story in her own words, as well as sharing Helen's opinion with us, which showed us what other people thought was going on.
I will be reading more books by this author.The Story: Pearl Louie Brandt has a terrible secret which she tries desperately to keep from her mother, Winne Louie.
And Winnie has long kept her own secrets - about her past and the confusing circumstances of Pearl's birth.
(I feel as if I know that feeling well!) And the keeping of secrets and divulging of withheld knowledge and history...such a fascinating practice amongst us humans toward one another!
More and more I realize that no one person knows every little thing about any of us.
We choose to share certain things with certain others, but I'm sure no one person has shared every little thing about themselves with any one other person...we spread ourselves out amongst those we know, as it were.
And really, what do our grown children know about us?
Especially with regard to our prior history before raising children?
Winnie has secrets she has kept hidden since her youth in China, secrets she wants to tell Pearl but is afraid to.Pearl Louie, now in her 40s, has secrets too.
Most of the novel then switches to Winnie's narration and the story of her life in China.
Her story is both tragic and painful to read about.
Amy Tan does a wonderful job of making her characters realistic and every word from Winnie seemed believable.
The first section was a little slow, but once we go back to China with Winnie, I couldn't put it down.
I thought I had read this book many years ago, but knew that if I had, I would notice right away.
A story of secrets held for many many years.
Of a Mother and daughter from not only different generations, but cultures and continents.
I find the stories of new immigrants and their American born children fascinating.
There is then such a huge gap between the parents and children, and lack of understanding, unless stories are shared.
The threat given, of secrets being exposed, sets the story up for a history that the mother shares with her daughter.
The Kitchen God is recognized in traditional Chinese culture.
His wife is ignored.
She does all the chores, suffers all life's hardships, and is never recognized as a deity.
The mother-daughter relationship between Chinese-Americans, Pearl and Winnie, is a bit strained.
They are from different generations.
The Americanized younger generation does not adhere to the subtle rules of social interactions.
They don't communicate well with the family's elders.
Secrets from from the past remain deeply buried.
Amy Tan, using her substantial story-telling talent, delves into the long ago and far away times of the old country - pre-Revolutionary China.
So tragic and difficult to read, yet so powerful. Any Tan’s writing is captivating and engaging so that Winnie’s pain feels incredibly real. Beautiful story about a mother and daughter, yet there is also elements of romance, friendship, and self discovery.
This is probably in my top 5. So good.
Beautiful and poignant. Loved it.
A friend of mine who teaches with me also admitted that she got tired of teaching the Joy Luck Club, so she started teaching this one instead because many of the same themes are explored.I'd agree it's every bit as satisfying as the Joy Luck Club, although if I had to choose between the two books to be stranded with on a desert island, I'd pick Amy Tan's first novel.
In fact, Amy Tan has written nothing I didn't like EXCEPT for her last novel, Saving Fish From Drowning, which was a total disaster.
But when her Aunt Helen believes she is dying from a brain tumor, she insists that Pearl tell her mother the truth about her illness, and Helen also pressures Winnie into telling her daughter the truth about her past.Thus begins Winnie's story as a young girl growing up in China, then entering an abusive marriage, suffering the loss of three babies, and living through the horrors and privations of World War 2.
We learn how she met Pearl's father and how she came to live in America shortly after the war, where she builds a new life while concealing her past.This was a mesmerizing story about the relationships between friends, and mothers and daughters, a life in prewar and wartime China.
It starts out with a mother/daughter relationship, but the story quickly turns to the mother's story of an abusive first marriage in feudal China and WWI.
The characters are one dimensional and the story is just not original.
Her husband is just absurdly bad and most of the characters are flat and uninteresting.
At the end, it tries to tie back into the mother/daughter relationship, but just falls flat.
It's just a typical woman beating the odds and finding true love story that just happens to be set in China.
The bulk of this story takes place in war time in China.
With that being said, I liked how this was NOT a story or retelling of that historical fact.
It truly was a story of a woman who was torn oftentimes between traditonal China and wanting a better life.
Her life had so much tragedy I was sad to read some of it.
But it was all told for an important purpose and not just to be told for the story's sake.
I always feel like I know her characters so well, both the flaws and the strengths.
