https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90229.My_Early_Life_1874_1904
Published in 1930, it covers the first 30 years of Churchill's life (1874-1904), and packs in more adventure than most of us could ever expect in many times those years.
Churchill tells war stories in which he was a participant ...
Apparently he barely survived many times, before rushing off to India to play in an army polo tournament, where he scored the winning goal, despite an incapacitated shoulder.
And it was surely a superb preparation for the time, 35 years later, when Churchill led Great Britain through the war against Hitler.
There are many interesting tidbits, such as Churchill's meeting with Mark Twain during Churchill's tour of America (Twain gives Churchill a hard time about the Boer Wars) and Churchill's fear of extemporaneous speaking, which led him to write his speeches beforehand and commit them to memory.
And Churchill takes pains to emphasize the difference between him and the Oxbridge crowd (Churchill having gone to Sandhurst).The dominant theme of this book is the break that Churchill sees between the waning Victorian age and a 20th century of technology and greater democratization.
Wonderful telling of Winston Churchill's early years. From reading this I understand how he turned into the man he was. I would recommend this one.
I once visited "Churchill's Picket" on a hilltop in Pakistan's Malakand district,where he remained holed up for a week.Picking up this book,I was reminded of that place.The story of the early part of his life is very interesting and full of adventure.It includes the story of the Malakand field force and his time in the army.I am not a fan of his political views and his policies in India,but still enjoyed this book.
It did take me a long time to read this book, since I read a lot of other ones in between chapters. I think it was a great book however, and wish I had known Mr. Churchill when he was young. I enjoyed his insights about hiself and his views of the Boer War.
It is filled with both adventure and misadventure, as he becomes an officer in the army and starts his writing career.
What many forget is that he wrote countless books and supported himself as an author.
He was in South Africa during the Boer War, stationed in India, went to Cuba and ran for office, switching parties from conservative to liberal and back again!
A fascinating read. I so often forget that Churchill was a real Victorian. If I could have done half of the exciting things that this man did in the five years after he turned 20, I should be satisfied for life.
In 1930 Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill, then age 56 and destined to live another 34 years, looked back on his first 30 years. One would think this hubris, for what can be achieved in one’s first 30 years? But in fact, unlike some modern politicians who write their autobiography at a young age before any achievements, Churchill had a lot to report. The result is “My Early Years: 1874-1904,” perhaps one of history’s most entertaining autobiographies. Churchill documents his childhood as the neg
Churchill documents his childhood as the neglected son of the American Jenny Jerome and Lord Randolph Churchill—both of them monumentally self-centered and unnurturing: she was focused on society and on her numerous affairs with highly ranked men; he on a career in politics (as a Tory he was an MP and, briefly, Chancellor of the Exchequer) which he trashed by refusing to follow his Tory party’s line (once, when Winston was reported to have been badly hurt playing Follow the Leader, a Lord remarked “That will never be his father’s fate”).
After a few chapters about his schooling and his distaste for educational institutions, he writes about his years as a young cavalry officer.
He made a name for himself both as an officer and as a correspondent to British newspapers, fighting and writing about it to the world.
He writes vividly of the times, but still manages to acknowledge a detachment from his earlier, 19th century imperialist viewpoint, having seen the world changed forever by the first World War. We modern-day readers have yet more ironic detachment when we look back at his text, written in 1929.
The first thing to say is that the quality of writing in this book is outstanding.
By way of example as to the quality of his writing, this passage is about having to learn maths as a child:“We continued to toil every day, not only at letters but at words, and also at what was much worse, figures.
Somewhat unexpectedly, the sections which fascinated me were those detailing ordinary life (using the term loosely, given that he was the son of a lord), and the sections I found dull were those detailing his military exploits.
This book was an interesting look at Churchill's formative years, education, army experiences, and early political life.
Churchill did not come up through the university system but went into the army instead.
Much of the book chronicles his experiences in the 2nd Boer War, a time when he romantically viewed war as more of a sport with glamorous uniforms and beautiful flags flying.
I'm sure war buffs appreciated the detail with which Churchill described these campaigns.
Churchill wrote this book in 1930.
By then the horrific effects of advanced weaponry caused him to take a different view of war and its effects.
And, World War II was yet to come.
This was the first biographical work I ever read just because of my own interest.
I found it on the bookshelf at the old Henry County Public Library - What a great place!
As a young teen, I would ride my bike down and spend hours reading - books, magazines, everything!
The librarians, especially Mrs. Mastin, helped so much.
She introduced me to the topical files - and a great way to do research.
I loved it!The book was inspiring to a 12-year-old kid!
It was written before WWII, so Churchill was not known worldwide at its publication.
Great book; Churchill is quite a surprise in a lot of ways. His personal history was interesting and a bit sad, too.
A "ripping yarn" about Churchill's early years from earliest childhood to the end of the Boer War, leavened with self-deprecating humor.
After listening to this, you understand that Churchill was a product of the Victorian age, and a thoroughgoing colonialist who enjoyed war (he complains in an aside that WWI ruined war).
His views are definitely not PC today, but to his credit he is self-aware in the book that his views were outdated at the time he wrote the book (1930).It is also apparent that he rather shamelessly used his connections (his father was a prominent politician, and his mother pulled strings behind the scenes) to advance his army/journalism career (he carried out both simultaneously, which caused a change in Army policy).
I preface my remarks with the fact that I am a fan of all things Churchill.
Two of my favorites are William Manchester's three volume biography of Churchill (third volume with Paul Reid) and Churchill's own six volume history of World War II.
In my reading, My Early Life stands out in three respects.
First, it is biographical in the first person and thereby adds personal details that are absent in other accounts, second, its narrative pulses with Churchill's command of the English language in its descriptions and details, and third it tells a thrilling story of a truly exceptional man of his time, even if was an early time.
Churchill pulls off a masterly stylistic effect for a memoir, approximating the perspective of his chronological self with subtlety and conviction.
Second, his early life is very eventful (son of Lord Randolph Churchill, a leading conservative, a young officer who visits on leave the Cuban revolt, sees action in India, the Sudan, and South Africa—young men of privilege at the start of the century behaved very differently than young men of privilege in the latter third of the same century, cf.
My Early Years is, as Roy Jenkins claims, one of the best memoirs written and likely one of Churchill’s best works.
This book is an example of Churchill’s command of English language.
“So they told me how Mr. Gladstone read Homer for fun, which I thought served him right”), his repeated forays into those “inhospitable regions of examinations”, his experiences in India, his role in the wars of Soudan(Sudan?) and South Africa are all told in an style and with a sense of wit which one hardly finds in writings of present day politicians.
The book also reveals how Churchill, born in an aristocratic family and because of his connections, bent many a rule in the army to don the dual role of “subaltern officers and widely followed war correspondent".
О том, что Уинстон Черчилль писал свои речи сам, я знала давно.
Но каково же было моё удивление, когда из сериала "Корона" я узнала, что он еще и книги писал.
Он настолько стал силён в английском, что даже книги начал писать, в итоге получил Нобелевскую премию Читаешь его, и понимаешь, что этот человек действительно мастер слова.
Даже в переводе понятно, что он хорошо пишет.
Он настолько хорошо писал, что смог обеспечить себя на долгие годы плодами своих творений.Во всей книге чувствуется его ум, проницательность, способность оказываться в нужное время в нужном месте, его уважительное отношение к людям.
This autobiography of Winston Churchill covers the period from his birth until his late 20s.
While I read it as part of the Goodreads Ultimate Popsugar Reading Challenge for the “political memoir” prompt, it really was more a book about Churchill’s formative years and the wars that provided a foundation for his life.
Particularly, the book covered Churchill’s participation in the Indian, African and Boer Wars.Churchill has an easy-going writing style which made this book highly readable.
I found this period of his life to be quite interesting and the insights he provided about himself were illuminating.
It was pretty awesome to hear about the early life of Winston Churchill.
There hasn't been a leader with this great enthusiasm throughout our history like Winston Churchill."My Early Life" is something that he wrote prior to World War II.
Great sentence structure and great arguments for his time and you can see the outline shaping of his memorable speeches in this book.
Churchill needed to get things off his chest and what better way to do it than writing a book on his complains.
In my opinion, there is no one that delivers like Winston Churchill.
I've long been an admirer of Winston Churchill, but had only the image of the unforgettable WWII persona in mind.
It was fascinating to hear the author's own account of his upbringing and critical young years.
Amazing how much (and how little :) the world has changed in the last 100 or so years as well.
The narrator really sounded the part and Churchill, obviously, as winner of the nobel prize for literature, is an excellent writer.
Might've been three stars but for all the detailed descriptions of the military maneuvers, which I find rather boring. I am, however, fascinated with him (especially his role in WWII) and the wildly changing times he straddled. I think I'll enjoy The Last Lion 1: Visions of Glory 1874-1932 more. I prefer the more neutral reportage of biography and history to the first person narrative of autobiography and memoir. Still, fascinating stuff, and I'm glad I got a sense of his voice before I embarked upon the very long Last Lion series.
After reading Herman’s ‘Gandhi and Churchill’, I thought I’d see what Churchill wrote (in 1930) about his ‘Early Life’ – 1874 to 1904, from Harrow, through Sandhurst, Bangalore, Malakand, Omdurman and South Africa, to Westminster.
It is a remarkable story through which Churchill makes full use of his elite family connections to get where he wants, and do what he wants – a young cavalry officer desparate for military action, and finding it, repeatedly.
An ‘action man’, taking huge risks, with some of them paying off to give him fame and fortune (and none, by some miracle, ending his life early).

Only Churchill! Pompous, egotistical, self-absorbed. All true. And yet - brilliant, intuitive, entertaining, insightful. You've heard it all before and this self-serving retrospective of The Great Man in his own words is all of the above...and more. Idiosyncratic. Impatient. But always the center of any stage...of any age. Really wonderful. Come listen to a true voice of the Victorian and Edwardian Ages, a brilliant and beloved dinosaur describing his own age.
Churchill's first 30 years in his own words: an interesting and clear picture of the British political world at the close of the Victorian era. Reading Churchill is simply a delightful experience of the English language.
The book turns on Churchill’s experiences as a soldier, war correspondent and aspiring politician at century’s end in India, Sudan and South Africa at the time of the Boer War. I hadn’t realized that at the time of the Boer War, the European powers had not fought one another for some fifty years, and popular indeed was the claim that civilization had progressed beyond war!
There are wonderful portraits of Englishmen here (though none of women, except tantalizing glimpses of Churchill’s socialite mother), and many fine passages describing military action during the Mahdist war.
We were considered such dunces that we could learn only English."Page 53 |"Was there not always more error than malice in human affairs?"Page 57 |"‘You have seen us tear down these barricades tonight; see that you pull down those who are responsible for them at the coming election.’"Page 98 |"The [Indian servants] world became bounded by the commonplace articles of your wardrobe and other small possessions.
His depictions of war and action are as good as I've ever read and the author's capacity to succinctly summarise, whilst simultaneously painting by flowing description the order of a battle is mesmerising.Apart from the entrancing style and clarity with which Churchill writes, the author also reveals personal details about his childhood and education that I had not come across before from the many other materials I have read on W.S.C.In summary, this is a first class read and I would recommend the book to anyone who has an interest in the great man.
In my opinion, the sections where he describes playing polo while stationed in Southern India and his nail-biting account of his escape from a Boer prison camp would each alone justify reading the book in it's entirety.

