https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12816644-siblings-without-rivalry
When I am done, I want to hear what is important to you."-	When kids name calling or hitting:-	“You sound mad, but I expect you to confront your brother without using names, or hitting.-	Rather than hitting him, go his this pillow, or show me on this dall, or draw a picture.-	Insisting on good feelings between children leads to bad feelings.
The book is written to be followed like a parenting workshop.BROTHERS AND SISTERS NEED TO HAVE THEIR FEELINGS ABOUT EACH OTHER ACKNOWLEDGEDChild: I’m gonna kill him!
Tell him, ‘I don’t want my skates used without my permission!’”RESIST THE URGE TO COMPAREInstead of comparing one child unfavorably to another, (“Why can’t you hang up your clothes like your brother?”) speak to the child only about the behavior that displeases you.Describe what you see “I see a brand new jacket on the floor.”or Describe what you feel “That bothers me.”or Describe what needs to be done “This jacket belongs in the closet.”Instead of comparing one child favorably to another.
September 28, 2011At the rate we're going, some of us won't make it out alive.
Desperate times.
Hoping for a miracle here.October 4, 2011I don't know how many stars to give this book, because I haven't fully put it to the test yet.
I've tried a few little changes and they've actually helped tremendously!!!
This is the kind of book I have to read through once, then go back and go chapter by chapter, adding changes a little at a time.
At this point, I'm impressed and I can absolutely see how a few changes will make a huge difference.Favorite sections of the book:- Siblings in Roles.
It's written in a pseudo-narrative format including dialogue, told from the point of view of the leader of a group of parents who are learning how to help their children get along.
The dialogue sounds canned and repetitive.
The note at the beginning makes it clear that the whole narrative is fictionalized -- based on true experiences of real parents but after awhile it all starts to feel canned.
Though I found the book helpful in many ways, it is clearly a product of its 1980's origins.
This book could offer some help to any parent who has more than one child.
I was reading an older copy and maybe this is fixed in newer editions, but this book advises the reader to ask their child to show their aggression to a surrogate object (such as by punching a doll in lieu of a sibling).
However, psychology studies have proved by now that letting out anger by venting or punching a pillow does not actually diminish or dissipate aggression and anger, but rather strengthens those feelings and draws them out longer.
Therefore, on this topic, the book is completely wrong.
Just reading/hearing the words coming out of parents mouths from the examples in the book, from parents around me, and from myself and then seeing the contrast described in the book was an indescribable experience for me.I would wager that the vast majority of us have specific issues, big or small, because of the labeling whether implied or said outloud, from our parents.
However, she also didn't know how to encourage us to be ourselves and the things she/they didn't say makes a huge difference.It's one thing to avoid comparing, it's great in fact!
However it's a completely different thing to pro-actively say things to encourage children to be who they are and to be the best at that as they can be.
I know I said I liked it, but it's really because it did what it promised to do - gave me a few things to try in my home to help my children get along better with each other.
I'm sorry, but I don't feel guilty for having four children and I'd prefer a perspective that helps kids feel grateful to be part of a wonderful family instead of one that has parents trying to figure out how to compensate for the sorrow that is another child.
This was a really easy read and I got a lot out of it.
I think the biggest challenge for me is to stay out of my boys fights and not create a triangle.
This book helped cure me of that.
This topic is a work in progress!
It reminded me that sibling rivalry is a natural part of growing up.
This book is filled with anecdotal evidence and stories from people that are parenting through the scars left with them since their own childhoods.
It was a very interesting read.
"let me see, Jimmy needs the crayon for homework, Amy wants to finish coloring.
But Jimmy if you want to work something out with Amy, that's up to you.")Random unorganized epilogue advice:1.
talk about how isn't it funny that "the best toys are the ones that someone else is using" then every time she wants to grab something, wink at each other and recite that line like it's an inside joke7.
make sure each child gets alone time with you several days a week.
don't talk about the other child during that time.8.
("Instead of this....try this")Again they structure the book as telling you about a parenting class they're teaching, and they use the people in the class to offer discussion and examples of challenges and how to handle them.
Many parents in the book gave examples of how their parents always treated their siblings different than them, or how they fought with their brother or sister so much - to the point that as an adult when they looked back, they still have very strong feelings about those years.
But it's really interesting now as a parent of children myself to look back and see how I feel when I think about myself as a kid dealing with sibling challenges.
Written as a piece of narrative, instructive non-fiction, Siblings Without Rivalry discusses how to deal with your kids when they fight.
Faber and Mazlish preface their work with a note that this book is an outgrowth of a larger work on general parenting topics.
That is, the fictionalized members of the parenting group all tell their own stories so that you can find someone or something to identify with.I had a few problems with the text overall.
That is, Faber and Mazlish use the technique whereby they tell a story, usually dramatic and heartening, and allow you to draw your own conclusions.

In "Siblings Without Rivalry", she shares her materials from classes that she conducts to help parents deal with siblings who fight or don't get along.
She shares the basic concepts, which are fairly straightforward, along with some great stories from parents who have made use of her suggestions in their own families.The core idea of dealing with kids who fight with each other is to reflect back to them what they are saying, helping them to verbalize their emotions.
The most helpful points I found were illustrated in cartoon form.
If you got the book and just read the cartoons, you'd have about 90% of the meat of the book.
The strongest advice is accepting the children's feelings, even bad feelings toward one another, and letting them know that they are understood.
Also, avoiding comparisons and casting the children in roles, even if they are positive roles (i.e. don't continually say to one child that they are a great artist, because all the other one hears is that he is not a great artist).
I know this won't fix every problem my kids have with each other. I know that I have to keep praying for them and help shaping their hearts with God's Word. But I like the way this book made me re-evaluate how I react when my kids squabble, and I like the suggestions and examples of how to get the kids thinking towards positive solutions they come up with themselves. I hope that I can put these ideas in to practice and enjoy some peace from time to time.
Though I found the book’s central conceit – that it retells the exchanges of one composite parenting workshop – perpetually annoying, the actual advice specific to fostering healthy and happy sibling relationships has proved invaluable in my household.Since I wish the authors had presented their wisdom in a straightforward manner, that’s just what I’ll do:“Brothers and sisters need to have their feelings about each other acknowledged .
This book is absolutely going on my shelves.
I wanted to highlight the whole thing, except I listened to it as an audiobook.
The examples, the classroom sessions, they are so useful.
I love that it's not JUST Faber and Mazlish's experience as parents, but those of their students as well.
And I love that the updated edition includes additional information and letters received after the release of the book.
This is a MUST for any parent that has more than one child.
And I almost want to give it as a new baby gift to anyone having their second child.
Someone from my mom group mentioned this book as being helpful identifying certain things we are doing or saying that may contribute to the sibling rivalry.
Some of my notes - Children don't need to be treated equally.
Children should be encouraged to share, and for very practical reasons.
- When one sibling hurts another, tend to the victim instead of giving attention to the aggressor.
I immediately went to her sister and said "oh are you ok baby, I know your sister shouldn't be pushing you down like that." I could feel my oldest watching this unfold.
Çocukları arasındaki problemlerden yorulup seanslara katılan ebeveynler, kendilerini çocuklarıyla değil çocukluklarıyla hesaplaşırken bulurlar ve pek çok ilginç, düşündürücü ve sarsıcı hikaye ortaya çıkar.Evde kardeşlerden birinin 'iyi çocuk', birinin 'kötü çocuk' olarak yaftalanmasının, 'iyi çocuk' için bile nasıl yıkıcı olabileceğine ilişkin bir hikayeyi kısaltarak alıntılamak istedim:"...Seanstan çıktığımızda annemin Drothy'yi hep benden yukarıda görmesini ve Drothy'nin üstünlük taslamasını hatırlayıp yeniden sinirlerim bozulmuştu.Birkaç hafta sonra çocukları rollere hapsetmenin pozitif roldeki çocuk için bile yaralayıcı olabileceğinden bahsettik.
Ama öyle olmadı, Drothy çok mutlu oldu ve ona annemin bizi rollere hapsedip hapsetmediği konusunda ne düşündüğünü sordum.Başta 'sanmıyorum' dedi ama çocukluğundan bahsettikçe hep örnek çocuk olmanın baskısını hissettiğini kabul etti.Sonra inanılmaz bir şey söyledi.
Maybe it's because I'm a regular reader of nonfiction, but I would be fine with a dry nonfiction text over this "class" format, dear lord.-This book positions children with disabilities as children with "problems" -- problematic to say the least!
The book presents this as a positive thing!
It's so unnecessary.-The end of the book where the authors self-congratulate themselves with thinking about how their methods will, if adopted by the whole world, would bring about world peace between all cultural brothers and sisters.
To say that the authors think very highly of themselves regarding their methods is an understatement.
AMAZING book!Adele Faber and Elaine Mazlish have wonderful, practical ideas for dealing with kids (and in this case, siblings).The way their parenting books are designed/laid out are functional, organized and helpful.
it was a nice touch to show adult siblings reconnecting after having a hard time in their childhoods, and maybe this book can help you have a better relationship with your own siblings too!As always, a true gem from Faber & Mazlish.
I have enjoyed listening to the audio CD editions of the parenting books by Adele Faber and Elaine Mazlish.
And I have found that their advice, their anecdotal stories, as well as their reassurance about what behaviors are considered age-appropriate, have helped me greatly in my parenting journey.
So I found this book to be a great help in not only seeing the benefits of sibling relationships, in learning how to compromise, negotiate and yes, even fight fairly.
I would like to think that I was a naturally good parent, but I know that I have learned a lot from their books and they have helped me to become a better one.
I don't know if its because I had the paperback copies or if the content is just so relatable, that this was such a smooth fast read, which would have been even faster, had I not been distracted at times by the internet, since I was free most of the day.Though this topic has been broached in a few of their books already, they really fully expanded on all the issues and it seems they updated the book further as I had an extra chunk of new material.
The overall format still included the introduction to the topic, parents frustrations, cartoon examples of scenarios, reminders and also further follow up questions from parents.
It takes for granted that our children have no minds of their own, and that as parents we are almost entirely responsible for who our kids grow up to be.
- The early chapters use a ridiculous polygamy metaphor to try to illustrate how children feel about siblings, depicting jealousy as the only emotion two people loved by the same person could feel for one another.
Kids will act in ridiculous ways whether they have siblings or not, and owning up to the consequences of their actions is part of growing up.
I read it before I had my second child and there are a lot of pretty awful stories about how mean siblings can be to one another.
It then occurred to me that most people will only read this book if they are already having problems with sibling rivalry--so it would not scare them!My main takeaway (that I can already implement with my toddler and newborn) is to never compare the kids to each other.
John, can you put your shoes on like Sarah?" is a comparison that could backfire.
Instead, just ask John to put on his shoes--no need to drag Sarah into it.
My rating doesn't refer to effectiveness of book's proposed approach. However, it's certainly an inspiring and uplifting one. Again, like with "How to Talk so Kids Listen and Listen so Kids Talk", authors focus on giving as many examples as possible, with similar short comic stories which I find terrific as mnemonics. Some dialogues feel a bit odd, sometimes I found myself thinking "hmmm people don't talk like that". Anyway, the ideas of how to deal with conflicts between children seem pretty convincing and reasonable. Time to test ;)
I did like the practical ideas and what exactly to say in certain situations.
But at the same time, I felt a little overwhelmed that I could never (not that I would, but unconsciously) compare my children, show favoritism, say anything positive about one child in front of the other, etc.
All the stories about grown-up children having problems with their siblings and why made me nervous...
I hope my kids will grow up having good relationships with each other.
Interesting to read about how siblings can affect your life SO much, even as adults.
Overall message and content was good though.
Very helpful tips, but I think it's geared more toward older children.
It is a very readable book and story-based, which is helpful.
It's also pretty sane parenting and the advice is practical.
I have been trying some of the ideas with my toddlers, but the suggestions are all about talking through issues and it's harder to do that with a 3 and 1 year old than I thought it would be.
It is a huge issue though and I would love recommendations on how to stop my girls from fighting (or more specifically from stopping my older one from hitting the younger one).

I’d say an alternative title to this book could be How to be Respectful of Your Kids and Their Feelings While Trying to Help Them Work Out Their Sibling Issues.
But that’s a little long so how about How not to be a Jerk to Your Kids.
Because I’ll be honest as a parent these are reminders I need sometimes, especially as a parent of an extremely sensitive child.
While the delivery comes across as a little condescending there are a lot of good new ideas in here as well as reinforcement of things I feel I am doing right.
And in parenting reassurance often means a lot.
