https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/831916.The_Moving_Toyshop
If you like vintage British mysteries and vintage British silliness, The Moving Toyshop (1946) is a book for you.
It has transformed itself into a grocery instead.Cadogan seeks out eccentric Oxford Don Gervase Fen, amateur detective and professor of English, and together they set out to solve the “mystery of the moving toyshop.” Since the two main characters are a poet and an English professor, the dialogue is studded with wit (“this is a book everyone can afford to be without”), obscure allusions (“Empedocles on Etna”), and literary games (“Unreadable Books”).
This is a golden era classic comic crime novel set in 1938 Oxford from the series featuring Gervase Fen, an Oxford professor, who has a penchant for investigating the strange and the odd.
Poet Richard Cadogan is on vacation in Oxford, and is walking around at night when he spots a toy shop with an open door.
His curiousity overwhelms him, and he finds himself going into the toy shop.
There is now no toy shop and no dead body.
A perplexed Richard calls on our amateur detective, Gervase Fen, and the two of them start pulling at the threads of this bizarre mystery.
#10 Favourite Read of 2012By my paws and whiskers this was quite simply brilliant.Listed in Keating's 100 Best Crime and Mystery Books, Moving Toyshop is "a froth of bubbling spirits, a sparkling example of the donnish detective story", at its heart is the absurd disappearance of a toyshop visited in midnight Oxford, which is explained with perfect plausibility by the time of the denouement.
This is very much a light hearted, Golden Age mystery, with liberal literary quotes and references to the author - at one point Fen is making up possible book titles for 'Crispin' for example.
It is set in 1938, but was written in 1945 and contains a magical and unreal storyline which does require a certain amount of 'joining in' with the sense of the impossible and madcap qualities of the novel.The story begins with poet Richard Cadogan, a poet, who goes to Oxford for a holiday.
Cadogan goes to his old friend Gervase Fen for help, who happily helps him in a madcap investigation concerning eccentric wealthy ladies, legacies, a sinister lawyer and lots of chasing various people around Cambridge.
In 2006, P.D. James picked it as one of her five most riveting crime novels but I read one of his novels and did not find any trace of Crispin's ingenuity.The story is about a lost toy shop.
In both instances, I had no idea, even a remotest one, who could be the culprit but in this case by Crispin, the mystery of the lost toy shop (replaced by a grocery), was even more intriguing that its whodunnit.Masterful handling of the plot.
The rest of the college is away at lunch, and with no one to rescue them, they must amuse themselves with a game called "Unreadable Books."'All right.
Mostly, it's just pure entertainment, a rambustious farce so well larded with literary allusions and aspersions that you will spend more time wondering about "Who said that?" than about "Who done it?"If you read and enjoyed Milne's Red House Mystery for it's wit and occasional silliness, then by all means pick up this seriously comic crime classic.
You'll enjoy its zany characters, slapstick humor, and self-incriminating tone.So, let's play "Unreadable books" ...
I haven't started yet and already I like it:"NOTE None but the most blindly credulous will imagine the characters and events in this story to be anything but fictitious."
It has taken me many years to begin to undo the habits authors like Edmund Crispin set me into.
So when Edmund Crispin trots out words like "steatopygic" or "suilline", I'm content (even if I have to look them up).
And "Wordsworth resembled a horse with powerful convictions".And I don't read like anyone else I know, not in "real life" at least.
That's why blogs and book-centric sites are so valuable – I know there are people out there whose standards are – well, Edmund Crispin high and not Stephanie Meyer high.
El excéntrico Gervase Fen es todo un hallazgo: profesor de literatura inglesa en el ficticio St. Christopher’s College de Oxford, y detective aficionado, se mueve en el terreno del humor británico más clásico, delirante por momentos, pero siempre divertido y entretenido.‘La juguetería errante’ (The Moving Toyshop, 1946), sigue el patrón de averiguar quién es el asesino de la historia.
Ante tal misterio, Cadogan decide acudir a su amigo Fen.A partir de aquí, se nos muestra toda una galería de personajes a cuál más peculiar, aderezado de diálogos brillantes, referencias literarias, citas, persecuciones delirantes, burlas sobre el pedante ambiente de Oxford, etc., todo desde el humor más british.En resumen, una gran novela de misterio, muy entretenida, que prácticamente se lee sola.
He (or, rather, the narrator) often speaks to the readers directly, as when the attractive sleuth, an Oxford lit prof, Gervase Fen mentions he's inventing book titles for Crispin.
At his weakest he is flippant, at his best he is witty, but all his work shows a high-spiritedness rare and welcome in the crime story." I simply love this book, and that's not solely for the brilliant locked room mystery (in the Dickson Carr style) but also for the wonderful personality of the sleuth, Gervase Fen, and his staple comments, such as "Oh, my paws!" and "Oh, my furs and whiskers!" (Those derive from the expostulations made by the Cheshire Cat in Alice in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll.) It is a wonderful mystery novel, highly exceptional and most enjoyable.
This has always seemed a peculiar way to go on, but having read this book, I have to admit that if someone did disinter the author to give him a slap, I'd see their point.
It's basically an entire book about how people who went to Oxford are charmingly eccentric and marvellously superior to everyone else, strung on a truly shitty and predictable murder mystery with which the author can barely be bothered anyway because it's more important to go on about how great Oxford alumni are in their delightful oblivious selfishness and hilarious privileged twattery.
'If there's anything I hate, it's the sort of book in which characters don't go to the police when they've no earthly reason for not doing so.''You've got an earthly reason for not doing so immediately.''What's that?''The pubs are open,' said Fen, as one who after a long night sees dawn on the hills.
The Moving Toyshop is a fun, quirky romp with a few unexpectedly dark shadows.Richard Cadogan is a renowned and therefore slightly broke poet who wheedles a fifty pound advance out of his publisher so that he can go on holiday to Oxford.
So, for that matter, is the toyshop.Enter Gervase Fen, an Oxford don and old friend of Cadogan's.
Crispin makes it possible to solve a mystery and have a lot of fun while doing it.I loved the mad caper that our detective Gervase Fen led us on in the university city of Oxford.
The premise of the story is that a body is found by the protagonist- Richard Cadogan, in a toyshop.
Fen was as eccentric and funny as ever - I did appreciate that I had been introduced to him already in the Gilded Fly before I read this book.One of the most enjoyable mysteries I have ever read.
If I had more this would be a book that would get it.
Not unnaturally, the police have difficulty believing his story after this, so he turns to his old friend, the amateur sleuth and university professor, Gervase Fen...This is one of those crime novels that goes way beyond the credibility line, but makes up for its general silliness by being a whole lot of fun.
Due to an unfortunate mistake, Cadogan is soon wanted by the police for stealing from the grocer’s shop, so all the time he and Fen are racing round Oxford pursuing their investigations, the local police are racing around too, pursuing Cadogan!
If you enjoy funny mysteries, this book is for you, and even more so if you like them set in twentieth century England.
This is my first time reading a book by Edmund Crispin (pen name of RR Montgomery) and I doubt it will be my last.Poet Richard Cadogen has found the apparently strangled body of a woman in a toyshop late one night when he saw a shop door left open.
No, not five stars for me (it is a mystery, for one thing), but I have no doubt it is for others.
This is the third book in the Gervase Fen series, but my first. I don't think I missed anything by not having read the previous ones. This mystery is definitely all about the main character, Fen, and how he goes about his investigation. The revelation of the murderer didn't particularly shock me, nor did i find the method for the murder particularly novel but no matter because this was a very enjoyable read. Lots of great characters, cheeky dialogue, a Jane Austen fanatic and some fun fourth wall moments. I really did enjoy my first Edmund Crispin novel.
Su detective es el ingenioso Gervase Fen ("El excéntrico comportamiento de Gervase Fen, profesor titular de Inglés y Literatura en St. Christopher, no se ajustaba en absoluto a los modelos tradicionales del profesorado") que recorre las calles de Oxford ("el único lugar de Europa donde un hombre puede hacer cualquier cosa e incurrir en cualquier excentricidad y no despertar ningún interés ni emoción en absoluto en nadie") sobre su deportivo que él llama Lily Christine III.La premisa inicial de "La juguetería errante" es tan ingeniosa como retadora: una juguetería con un cadáver en su interior que aparece y desaparece para consternación del poeta Richard Cadogan, amigo de Gervase, y que desencadenará todo el meollo.
What a piece of misogynistic nonsense! Since this book saw it fit to do some Jane Austen bashing, I think it is fit that I point out the beautiful ironies that would have made that lady laugh about this very book (though irony not in the literary sense but in the situational sense):1) According to Edmund Crispin the ladies in Jane Austen are not very well constructed, while his own view of women is as follows: when Fen asks a womanising undergrad how come he is so successful with the ladies, he
Since this book saw it fit to do some Jane Austen bashing, I think it is fit that I point out the beautiful ironies that would have made that lady laugh about this very book (though irony not in the literary sense but in the situational sense):1)	According to Edmund Crispin the ladies in Jane Austen are not very well constructed, while his own view of women is as follows: when Fen asks a womanising undergrad how come he is so successful with the ladies, he says, and I quote: “I quieten their fears and give them sweet things to eat.
All you'll care about is getting to follow these two brilliant characters around as they make wisecracks, argue with one another, and get into trouble.I learned about Edmund Crispin from P.D. James, who wrote about him in her book Talking About Detective Fiction.
One proposes that they play "Detestable Characters in Fiction." The rules: both players must agree, each player has five seconds in which to think of a character, and if he can't, he misses a turn.
Top with beer, garnish with orange, and go be British and witty with Mr. Crispin.
I can't write a better review than GoodReads Librarian "Cissy Mermaid" did.
She nails the charm this golden-age mystery has, and then writes a wonderful review.
slang: 'God help us!'9) Cachinnation: loud, convulsive laughter; hideous grimace10) Disapprobation: expression of strong disapproval11) Suiline: of or pertaining to a hog or the Hog family12) Debouches: to march out from a confined spot into open ground13) Bowdlerized: to expurgate, as a book, by omitting or modifying the parts considered offensive14) Expurgated: having material deleted15) Parturition: the process of giving birth16) Illimitable: incapable of being limited or bounded; immeasurable17) Saturnine: bitter or scornful, a brooding ill-humor18) Insuperably: incapable of being passed over or surmounted19) Argal: a ludicrous corruption of the Latin word, ergoLord how I love a well-written British book!
When it comes to mysteries, I think I began with the creme de la creme -- a friend introduced me to Dorothy Sayers, Edmund Crispin, Ngaio Marsh, and a few other select authors in my mid-twenties -- I'd never read any mysteries until that time.
The Moving Toyshop is a favorite mystery, and one I've read several time.
It's fast-paced, witty, and chock full of the eccentric English characters that have become stock-in-trade for such writers a Martha Grimes and other "cozy" mystery writers -- but this was the original deal, done with inimitable panache.
Oh, and the "mystery" part is quite clever, too.
What can be better than a detective story in which the characters play "terrible lines from Shakespeare". I am not a fan of detective stories, but I loved this delightful romp. Apparently it is a "surrealistic detective story". I think that might be an oxymoron. The detective story side of the plot has a lot of holes in it, like lace, but like lace it is very frothy and lovely and the Oxford setting is just a dream.
This is a mystery where the conundrum is very much by the by - the joy of the story is the banter between Cadogan and Fen. Discussions include the most unintentionally loathsome characters in literature and the most unreadable books of all time and occasionally the pair of them have to do battle with an angry Janeite.In many ways, The Moving Toyshop is a love letter to Oxford.
It would be too far to label the novel nostalgic, but with its pre-war setting there is the real feel of a Golden Age thriller.The Moving Toyshop is a larger-than-life mystery with heavy helpings of farce.
Fen to the rescue, along with several Oxford students, an aged professor, and of course a pretty girl.As an Oxonian prof of Eng Lit, Fen spouts literary quotations in the best Wimseyite manner, and he and Cadogan engage in Radio 4-type games such as "Unbearable Protagonists of Literature" and "Horrible Classics" (my titles, I can't remember what they called them).
Only one real quibble; authors at this time could not resist the temptation to say things like, "That sort of thing only happens in books" or "If this were a novel, such and so would happen, but this is REAL LIFE."Of course it is.
Goodness. This WAS silly.Oxford. The amateur detective is a Don, with a poet sidekick. The crime is improbable and the solution is less important than the preservation of a milieu. Lots of literary references (mostly snarky). A fun read.
I read this more years ago than I can remember (along with the rest of the books by this author). I loved it at the time.
This book was great fun and good exercise for the little grey cells. It's dripping with literary allusions. I didn't know whodunnit till the very end. Note to self: Find more Crispin.
"I'm going on holiday and I need money," [said Cadogan]..."Perhaps you'd like to stay with me for a few days at Caxton's Folly?" [said Mr. Spode]"Can you give me adventure, excitement, lovely women?""These picaresque fancies, " said Mr. Spode.
Cadogan decides to holiday in Oxford, happens upon a dead woman in a toy shop and so begins his adventure....This story read sort of like a farce.
For example - "A constable standing on the opposite pavement was watching their antics with some curiosity, but Fen was so oblivious of this important fact that he had opened a window and was climbing in before Cadogan could stop him.
Poet Richard Cadogan is bored and looking for romance and adventure, so he heads up to his old university town.
An odd set of circumstances brings him there much later than he anticipated, and he finds himself in a deserted toy shop along one of the main roads.
When he comes to and is able to escape the toy shop, he seeks out the police.
It's a grocery, without any sign of ever having been a toy shop and certainly no sign of a dead body.
I'll be looking for more of Edmund Crispin's books when I'm in the mood for a mystery of this type.
This book was completely unbelievable from the start to the finish, but such a lot of fun.It involves the discovery of a body, which vanishes (an old trope) but also the entire venue vanishing (hence the title). Very enjoyable.
