https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169524.Twenty_Thousand_Streets_Under_the_Sky
He was in love with himself.And a man successfully in love desires above all things to sing.Twenty Thousand Streets Under the Sky trilogy is the three interconnected moody and beautifully written novellettes of unrequited love.Nevertheless, the gas-lit walls and objects around him were heavy with his own depression – the depression of one who awakes from the excess in the late afternoon.
The late, dark afternoon, with an evening’s toil ahead, affords no such palliation.Love is the most desirable and entrancing thing… But an unanswered love may bring much anguish and sadness.
here is a man who understands the impositions placed upon women; and how difficult it is to be polite while also discouraging further involvements from overeager men. you know who you are...
The  Twenty Thousand Streets Under The Sky  trilogy is an amazing achievement, originally published as three separate books: The Midnight Bell (1929), The Siege of Pleasure (1932) and The Plains of Cement (1934).In 1935, these books were first collected in one volume as Twenty Thousand Streets Under The Sky. The Midnight Bell (1929) Patrick Hamilton’s protagonist Bob, the waiter at a Euston pub called The Midnight Bell, has saved £80 (worth several thousands of pounds in today's money) in the ba
trilogy is an amazing achievement, originally published as three separate books: The Midnight Bell (1929), The Siege of Pleasure (1932) and The Plains of Cement (1934).In 1935, these books were first collected in one volume as Twenty Thousand Streets Under The Sky. The Midnight Bell (1929) Patrick Hamilton’s protagonist Bob, the waiter at a Euston pub called The Midnight Bell, has saved £80 (worth several thousands of pounds in today's money) in the bank through prudence and maximising his tips.
ConclusionWhilst Hangover Square may be Patrick Hamilton’s best-known London novel I think that Twenty Thousand Streets Under The Sky trilogy (in particular The Midnight Bell) is a key book in understanding his world view and the way he used his own life to inform his fiction.
You know that feeling of giddy pride you get when you feel like you have discovered an author?
Such a "discovery" is, of course, ridiculous.
Still, I feel like I just discovered Patrick Hamilton for myself.
Nick Hornby compared his discovery with chancing upon a new best friend.
Writing in a Woolfian era, Hamilton is not that kind of stylist, but he captures character like few writers I've ever read.
I've been struggling to put in words what I love about Hamilton, but I have fallen for him, and I look forward to reading more.
It's three novels in one telling the stories of three characters that exist in and around a pub called The Midnight Bell in 1930s Central London - one's a waiter, one's a prostitute and t'other is a bar maid.It's pretty harsh stuff and is like watching your friend fall in love with an idiot, but its so well observed and inside the bits of us that we try and hide that it just blew me away.
Also, if you know London at all and like a drink, the recognition element is a huge part of the enjoyment.Anyway, probably the best thing I've read since Underworld.
My favourite section was always Ella's, but when reading the novel Bob's struggle when he falls in love with a prostitute is very affecting.
I had dismissed his section as a stupid and vain man looking for someone to control, but in the novel you see how much his obsession is motivated by loneliness, just like Ella, and they bookend and mirror each other perfectly.
I have so many pages bookmarked with wonderful quotes on love and loneliness from this book, but I don't want to spoil anyone who wants to read it, so I won't post them.
One of the regulars is a writer, of poems and letters to the newspaper of such banal verbosity that I couldn't help feeling grateful that the Something he was working on at home never saw the light of day.Bob develops an obsession with a beautiful prostitute, Jenny, who often stands him up, always spends his money and generally leads him a merry dance.
We feel sorry for Bob, he is a nice man, but can't help feeling that it mostly his own fault for being so blinkered."The Siege of Pleasure" is Jenny's story and pre-dates the meeting with Bob. It is much shorter because it is intentionally a simple and predictable one.
I was so excited when I bought this book at Hatchards. Can not wait to get stuck in. See you later.Brilliant . I will never ever forget this book. I could not put it down, yet again Hamilton has blown me away. Every Londoner should read this book. Hamilton is a master story teller.
the first book is longest, introducing bob the waiter at the pub so named, and his pathetic relationship with prostitiute jenny, avowedly the most autobiographical story, not too different than hamilton's 'hangover square'.
hamilton has, throughout this trilogy, admirable sympathy, irony, compassion, for all his characters, though this is in comparison with the dickens just read...the third book follows ella the barmaid at the pub, whose unrequited love for bob and awareness of her poverty lead her into a tentative courtship with a man who promises her security, financial, class, if only love she must argue herself into.
If you’re a Londoner, the great thing about Patrick Hamilton is that his novels are almost entirely geographically accurate, meaning you’re getting that ‘1930s in Colour’, box-of-ghosts feeling (that I get from the New York non-fiction of Joseph Mitchell) and a strong sense of social history.
There are pubs that are still there today (e.g. the Green Man at Great Portland Street) and there’s poverty on Whitfield Street (this is a time where to be poor in London means living in Camden and Pimlico).
I have done it again by rating this Patrick Hamilton novel five stars, despite being very stingy with five stars. I am filled with admiration for Mr. Hamilton's gifts as a storyteller and his marvelous style. I am unable to put down his novels. This exceptional work is actually a trilogy, with each part about one of the characters and their experiences at roughly the same time frame.
I found this to be a good read overall, but not nearly as good a read as the novel that introduced me to and left me in awe of the brilliant mind of Patrick Hamilton: The Slaves of Solitude.
While I quickly added TSOS to my list of favorite books, I found the individual novels in this trilogy to be more of a mixed bag.
The characters and the setting come vividly to life and I strongly related to Bob the bartender's story.
The characters felt more like caricatures and it's more of a short story than a novel.
The author of "Gaslight".“Patrick Hamilton is being revived again.
And it looks serious this time… JB Priestley was an early supporter.
Hamilton's book The West Pier was generously described by Graham Greene as "the best novel ever written about Brighton".
He was John Betjeman's favourite contemporary novelist.
Biographer Michael Holroyd has written numerous essays and introductions.
Nick Hornby recently described him as 'my new best friend'.” —The Independent [UK]“I've gone Patrick Hamilton crazy.
I was blown away by the superbly excruciating Twenty Thousand Streets Under The Sky , and I'm going to track down some of his out-of-print novels.
I've read The Midnight Bell in another edition, and returned it to the Library. So to the second book, The Siege of Pleasure, to pick up the story again of Jenny.Well, The Siege of Pleasure wasn't what I was expecting, that was a pleasant surprise. How wonderful to see this character from another perspective. Now to Ella, in The Plains of Cement.
Not a flawless book by any means but a multi-layered one that is so passionately and evocatively written that it seems churlish to award any fewer than five stars.
The other two, focusing on the prostitute Jenny and the barmaid Ella, feel less authentic but are nonetheless devastating.
Jenny is a particularly interesting and enigmatic character who reminded me a lot of Sarah Woodruff in the The French Lieutenant's Woman, which was written the best part of half a century later and considered a fairly challenging book even then.
A poignant, working-class epic. Heartbreaking, gripping and with a gaze so focused, so evocative and so incisively applied to the anxieties and mannerisms of a small cast of characters in 1930s London, that it is the closest thing to time-travel you'll ever stumble upon. Above all, regardless of their sorrows and frustrations, the author's devotion and love for his players surges from the pages and somehow redeems and resurrects them and the generic lost souls they represent. Devastating.
Oh genre porn, thy name is longwinded stories about British laborers in London living small lives, dealing with small issues and somehow breaking your heart in the process. The amount of tragedy that human beings can cope with never ceases to amaze me especially when treated well by an author with a flare for wry-statements-by-omniscient-narrator. My NYRB edition had a great foreward by Susanna Moore.
I've read The Midnight Bell. Five stars. Next to read is The Siege of Pleasure and The Plains of Cement.Returned to the trilogy 26 June 2017 in another edition, The Siege of Pleasure to resume the story from Jenny's perspective.
Drains ran, the reflecting mud on the pavements was bright blue, bicycles were skidding, the wind smelt keen and bashed you in the face, slates glistened, and everything was washed and beginning again."  There is humor, and it is a distinctly British, Kingley-Amis kind of satiric worldview; a set of pratfalls is almost always preceded by the protagonist's unerring recognition that just that is likely to happen.
And without doubt, Hamilton knows the score with alcohol, at a visceral level: "...
It was like the effect on the body of good news, without the good news-- a delicious short cut to that inconstant elation which was so arduously won by virtue from the everyday world.
Hamilton has a gift for characterization, and each of the three vertices of the failed love triangle display his virtuosity at getting into the heart of each character.Hamilton's side characters are something to behold: the denizens of the bar where Bob works, the two spinsters who employ Jenny, and Ella's pushy suitor feel like people Dickens might have written about, and the humor they bring relieves some of the bleakness of the main stories.
I’d suggest that for the real horror version of Jane Austen, readers had better turn to Patrick Hamilton.
You feel that it might have conveyed what it had to say in half the number of pages.Also I don’t entirely agree with Michael Holroyd’s 1984 introduction, in which he writes:The fact that this should not depress the reader is a tribute to the power of Patrick Hamilton’s storytelling and the exhilaration of his humour.
Hamilton writes some terrific scenes, and his portrayal of misdirected passions is very convincing, especially in the first and last parts of the trilogy.
By the end of the first chapter I'd already envisioned the tv adaptation and which pub would feature as the Midnight Bell - Yorkshire Grey or Fitzroy Tavern, clearly.
(When I discovered an adaptation had in fact been made and watched it, I'm fairly certain it was the Yorkshire Grey that featured, so perhaps my screen-writing career still has legs...)Anyway - the book, or trio of books really, is a wonderfully-observed story and while the three main characters are all extremely strong, I feel the fourth character - London itself - is just as important in dictating the plot.
I fell in love with the title ;p This trilogy contains three seperate stories centred around a London Pub in the 19th Century called 'The Midnight Bell'.
The first story, 'The Midnight Bell', is a story of Bob the Waiter and his obsession with Jenny, a 'lady of the night' ie a prostitude.
There's much more to Hamillton than the flair for titles though - and boy, do I love his titles!
The language is friendly and the description of the people as well as the 19th century pub surrounding so true I can't help but smile ;p
This is extraordinarily good in a stealthy quiet way to start with then before you know it you're drawn in to the insanity of behaviour of each of Hamilton's characters.
Bob is infatuated with Jenny and like a car crash in accurate slow motion, and even though you can see far better than Bob how it will all end somehow you can't put the book down.
As with Bob, Hamilton stealthily shows you her weakness, her rationale for doing what she does and her inevitable and particular personal failure of personality as well as her betrayal by others.
An intriguing story set in London in the 1950s.
At its centre is a pub, a bar steward, his female assistant and a streetwalker.
The book is cleverly crafted with the story written from three different angles i.e. the three main characters.
The bar steward wants to rescue the prostitute from her entrapped environment.
The female assistant wants to be loved by the bar steward.
The prostitute is readily distracted by offers of travel to Paris and doesn't want rescuing.
Each person has little to live on, all have dreams and in the background a very realistic setting of a city struggling to come to terms with post-WW2 strains.
A wonderful read. Depicts post-WWII working-class life and love in the U.K as experienced by three denizens of a particular seedy bar in London - two women and a man - each competing for, and losing, the objects of their dreams. Plainspoken, hard-edged, tragic, amusing, unflinching, well worth a read.
Great portrait of London society in the late 1920s. Three novellas each concentrate on one of the frequenters of The Midnight Bell in between Euston and Great Portland Street. Set in the West End, Regent's Park, Hampstead, Chiswick, Twickenham and Richmond. Some very astute Marxist analysis of characters in this.
Heartbreaking and haunting, all punctuated by tremdous humor, and profoundly human insights. Oh, how wrong so many loves go! How cruel it can all turn. Hamilton is a tremendous talent, Britian's John Fante.
The Midnight Bell:http://gracialouise.typepad.com/high_...
Alarm bells begin jangling inside Bob's head from the moment she first stands him up on a date (she does this a lot), but he rationalises this and every subsequent discovery that he makes away - and as he repeatedly visits his bank to withdraw first a fiver, then a tenner and finally a fair bit more, the narrative takes on an air of helpless inevitability, made all the more tragic thanks to the fact that Bob is fully aware that what he's doing might be, to quote Sergeant Wilson, not altogether wise.The central story is queasily gripping enough already, but where the book really shines is in its powerfully Dickensian evocation of late 1920s London, both geographically (it spans roughly Hampstead down to Piccadilly, catching the character of every square mile along the way) and socially.
