https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91244.Beezus_and_Ramona
Ramona is that annoying four year-old, seeking her own independence and annoying a much older (9-10) and mature Beezus, in this collection of short stories.
Perfect for young readers who are learning to discover the passion of books.I remember reading these books and watching the associated television program in my youth.
This first in the series is sure to open the way for many adventures that the young reader can discover, seeing how Beezus and Ramona tackle some of the issues that seemed to face young people at the time.
Beezus and Ramona (Ramona, #1), Beverly Cleary This is the only book in the series written from older sister Beezus' point of view.
In the book, Beezus is struggling with her feelings for her annoying younger sister Ramona.
The Ramona books are a series of eight humorous children's novels by Beverly Cleary that center on Ramona Quimby, her family and friends.
یکی از ماجراهای داستان، درباره ی کتابخانه رفتن «رامونا» و «بیزوس» است.
He thinks Ramona needs a spanking, and I am inclined to almost agree.
Perhaps not quite a spanking, but certainly something stronger than, "You may go to your room." I think the mom gets stricter in later books in this series, but she is wishy-washy in this one.In a Battle of the Brats, my son couldn't decide whether Fudge or Ramona would win.
And actually, I started to admire her when she gives the excuse, "Because I wanted to see what would happen." Usually in books it is the boys who are scamps, but Beverly Clearly makes a little girl about as naughty and mischievous as possible.
Bottomline: Started to read this to my 5year old....
neither of us were impressed, so we stopped.I remember reading this series when I was little...
and my daughter loves (and very much relates to Ramona's antics in) the movie remake that came out a few years ago...
so we were both very excited about starting this book.
But not very far in (maybe half way through the 1st chapter), my daughter just couldn't seem to get interested...
and frankly, I found myself *disgusted* with the way they talked & treated Ramona just for being the "little kid/sister".
I recently found a copy of Beezus and Ramona at the local used bookstore, and I picked it up to relive a bit of my childhood.
I now have a younger sister and she is a lot like Ramona, so I can definitely see why Beezus gets so exasperated with her so often.
This is a timeless story about the differences between sisters and the love that they share even when they don't like each other.
This book, while heavily featuring Ramona, is more about Beezus and is told from her point of view.
I'd recommend this book to young girls who have sisters that they feel like they just can't stand.
My own once-annoying little sister ran her first 5K this morning and texted me afterward to tell me she had done it, how happy and accomplished she was feeling.
This is the perfect book to read on a day when I am thinking about her, since we certainly weren't always the sort of friends we are now.
I can't believe this book has been around since the 50's (aside from the fact that 9-year old Beezus spends her time playing checkers and making potholders).
It's OK to admit that.These books are good stuff.
As a read-aloud, young children will relate to Ramona, and older, independent readers will feel Beezus's pain.
This is my favorite Ramona book, because of the episode with the library book (I'm a librarian, see).
Ramona, being only four, colors in the steamshovel book Beezus checked out for her from the library, and they have to pay for it.
If they give the book to Ramona, she will learn the lesson that any book you want to keep from the library, all you have to do is color in it!
The book is given to Beezus, not Ramona, and a crisis is narrowly averted.
مادر به آرامی فر اجاق را خاموش کرد، دستگیره ای برداشت، عروسک نیم سوخته و بقیه کیک را از داخل فر بیرون آوردبئاتریس خشمگین گفت: رامونا جرالدین کوییم بی!
جدا وحشتناکی ببین چه به روز کیک تولدم آوردی!؟رامونا اعتراض کرد: خودت به من گفتی خیال کنم گرتل هستم!
خب...مگر گرتل ، جادوگره را توی آتش هل نداد؟خواهر کوچیکم عاشق مجموعه راموناست .
من برای پیدا کردن راز این همه علاقه، به قفسه کتاباش دستبرد زدم و نه تنها پشیمون نیستم بلکه میخوام این کار رو واسه بقیه جلدهای رامونا هم تکرار کنم.شیطنت ها و خوشمزگی های رامونا خنده به لباتون میاره.
I was delighted when Isabelle told me that Beezus and Ramona was the "read aloud" book at school - which means her teacher reads it aloud during snack time and after lunch.I really love this series!
:P I like that it highlights the relationship between two sisters - they love each other, of course, but they don't always like each other, and that's okay.From a kid's standpoint, Isabelle says she likes this book because when Ramona wants to get a library card, she tries to sign her name as a series of i's and t's.
هنوز هم از خواندن این کتاب ها بینهایت لذت میبرم... هر چند درک نمیکنم که بیزوس چرا برای دوست نداشتن خواهرش احساس گناه میکنه... من که هیچ وقت برای دوست نداشتن خواهرم این حس رو نداشتم! هر چند این کتاب باعث شد که خواهرم برای داشتن من شکرگزار باشد... ولی متاسفانه نفهمیدم این کتاب چه مطلب آموزنده ای برای بچه ها میتونه داشته باشه به جز اینکه "شما هیچ چاره ای به جز تحمل خواهرتون ندارین!" البته یک چیزی گفت که به دلم نشست و اینم اونه که مجبور نیستید همه رو همیشه ..دوست داشته باشید
I know I read some of the Ramona books as a child but I don't have particularly strong memories of them, so listening to the audiobook was an interesting experience.
Stockard Channing narrates this Listening Library edition and I was disappointed with the results.
I wonder if I would have liked this more with a different narrator or reading it in standard book format and I'm certainly interested in reading at least one more to see if they're more like what I half-remember.
And man, did I hate this book.Ramona is one of the most annoying, aggravating, stupid, idiotic characters I have ever seen (and I read a lot).
The parents are pretty strict, but I think in in many of the cases they could (and should) be way more stricter.I hated her a lot, and that was already at page 1 or 2.
And sure at times she was justified to cry and be negative, but a lot of times I was just thinking she could be a bit more positive.The book is done in short stories.
I don't think I have read a Beverly Cleary book since I was in 3rd or 4th grade.
I did read her autobiographies when I was in 7th grade for a book report.
I always loved Beverly Cleary and I am excited to return to this great children's classics.9 year old Beezus, who always seems so level-headed, is dealing with the antics of her "creative" 4 year old sister, Ramona.
I guess her character stands out to me more now that I am a mother and not a pesky little sister anymore.
July 2017: I just finished reading this book aloud to my almost-three-year-old and I can see so much of him in Ramona.
I'd forgotten that this book is actually told from Beezus's point of view, but Quinn still really enjoyed listening to the story.
I'd completely forgotten about the ridiculousness of the chapter where Ramona invites everyone she knows to an impromptu party, or when she acts out Hansel and Gretel, so it was wonderful rereading them.
We don't actually own all of the books in the series, so I'm going to have to get hold of the next one as Quinn is demanding "more Ramona stories".
Възмутена съм! Аз съм направо въмУтена и огОрчена от факта, че детството ми е било лишено от тази велика поредица на Бевърли Клиъри! Че не съм имала толкова голямо разнообразие от вече измислени пакости,които да пресъздам в домашни условия.Чувствах се толкова неразбрана, а сега!! Сега виждам, че съвсем не съм сама - аз съм една истинска пораснала Рамона, която само се чуди какво пакост да извърши.Утешава ме единствено факта, че поне сега тази поредица попадна в ръцете ми. Ако беше закъсняла с още някоя или друга годинка, не знам как бих го преживяла!
Ramona is simply the best. I'm so pleased that my kids love these books as much as I did.
I did, lol, love how Miss Evans handled it *more laughter*LOL, yep, been there, tried to figure that out:”Ramona’s pictures, in fact, were so full of imagination that it took even more imagination to tell what they were."It’s a series of vignettes with Ramona acting up throughout the events of the day: going to the library, walking down the street, temper tantrums when she doesn’t get her way or no one is paying attention to her, the impromptu “party”, wanting to be read to...from the same story...over and over, and more.Cleary uses third-person point-of-view from Beezus' perspective, so it's easy to see her points.
Even though the stories and characters are not exactly timeless, the books receive new editions every generation, with updated illustrations, but the details and dialogue remain entrenched in Baby-Boomer vocabulary.There's not a lick of technology in this first book in the "Ramona" series, except the occasional telephone call conducted in the kitchen, because that's where the telephone lives, be it rotary or maybe even push-button(??!), and thus any member of the household can pick up the receiver and "phone" their family and friends.I feel sorry for 9 year-old Beezus.
Ramona drove me crazy! On the plus side, Stockard Channing did a wonderful job narrating the audiobook
We started out reading it, and then switched to listening to an audiobook during the commute to school.The thing I personally found interesting was how different 4 year olds were treated in the 1950's versus now.
I found myself amazed at how much freedom a 4 and 9 year old had: Walking to the library.
Where I was allowed to play outside by myself at age 4 as long as I stayed on the block.
Or when I was allowed to take the bus to the library by myself at age 9-10.
I never cared, but recently, I thought I should try out the classic stories for cultural knowledge and appreciation.
Ramona is an absolute brat, and even though some of her antics were merely childish, her overall behavior was dreadful and her parents made little to no effort to discipline or train her through any method other than "go to you room until you want to be good." Everyone treated her like a pest and interruption, but instead of training her, encouraging her to behave, and giving grace as she grew, the family thought they should just tolerate her rebellion, selfishness, and inconsiderateness until she "grew out of it." Yeah.
I have an amazing, beautiful, old copy of Beezus and Ramona that I scored at a library book sale.
I adore it, and decided to give it a reread, as I haven't visited with Ramona in forever.
Can you believe this--I completely forgot the first book in the Ramona series is told from her older sister's point-of-view.
Beezus is so sweet and patient, sometimes getting understandably frustrated with her little sister, but usually just showing her love for Ramona.
And since we all love Ramona, that's such a sweet place to start this series that I can't wait to read the rest.
Read this years ago, but decided to read it to the girls aloud. After the first chapter, I feared they wouldn't enjoy it because it's a little outdated and not as funny as the Bunnicula series we just finished, but I was wrong. They totally loved this first book and are chomping at the bit to have me read the rest. And that makes me happy because I really enjoyed this series when I read it the first time. (Though I think little Ramona needs some more serious punishments at times than just being sent to her room) :o)
I loved reading this series as a kid. Walk down memory lane...the books that began my love of reading.
เพิงไดมาอานตอนแกราโมนาแสบมากคะ เปนเดกประเภททีถาเจอในชีวิตจริงคงรักไมลงเหมือนกัน (แตถาเปนลูกเปนหลานกอีกเรือง) พฤติกรรมเรียกรองความสนใจบางทีกนาสงสาร แตแบบทีลงไปนอนรองกรีดๆ นีกไมไหวชอบความสับสนของบีซัส พีสาววัย 9 ขวบ ทีเวลาเจอราโมนาทำตัวรายกาจใสกจะคิดวา "ไมรักราโมนา" แตอีกใจนึงกรูสึกผิดวาพีสาวควรจะรักนองสาวสิ ตัวเองใชไมไดเลย นารักมากคะ
เพิ่งได้มาอ่านตอนแก่ราโมนาแสบมากค่ะ เป็นเด็กประเภทที่ถ้าเจอในชีวิตจริงคงรักไม่ลงเหมือนกัน (แต่ถ้าเป็นลูกเป็นหลานก็อีกเรื่อง) พฤติกรรมเรียกร้องความสนใจบางทีก็น่าสงสาร แต่แบบที่ลงไปนอนร้องกรี๊ดๆ นี่ก็ไม่ไหวชอบความสับสนของบีซัส พี่สาววัย 9 ขวบ ที่เวลาเจอราโมนาทำตัวร้ายกาจใส่ก็จะคิดว่า "ไม่รักราโมนา" แต่อีกใจนึงก็รู้สึกผิดว่าพี่สาวควรจะรักน้องสาวสิ ตัวเองใช้ไม่ได้เลย น่ารักมากค่ะ
I loved these books dearly when I was younger. I'm delighted they hold up though my perspective is very different. I laughed and laughed and felt so bad for Beezus. I don't remember Ramona being so spirited, but she is an absolute delight.
I even understand how Beezus can say that sometimes she doesn’t love her sister because I’m an older sister too.The only thing that kind of disturbed me was that the chapters were really long, but I still liked each chapter.My bottom line: I recommend this book to the other girls in my class and maybe some boys.
I would definitely read more books about Beezus, Ramona, and Henry.MOM SAYS:What I liked and disliked about it: There is a reason that a book written in 1955 is still as well-loved today as it was back then.
This series was a favorite when I was a child. It's the series I think of when I think of my earliest reading. I really enjoyed this version from Audible. It was narrated by Stockard Channing. She did such a good job giving each character their own voice and personality. I highly recommend... especially for family listens. :D
First real classic read-aloud with almost-5-year-old. Great illustrations, hilarious stories, and real talk about feelings.
Now they get a whole book of their own.It is a story of a nine-year-old girl whose biggest problem is her younger sister, four-year-old Ramona.
Beezus is often called upon to watch her little sister and has to take her out in the neighborhood.
Being a good obedient girl, Beezus finds her special day spoiled by the guilty feeling that she just does not love her little sister the way she thinks she should.I never read this when I was nine, but I wish I had.
