https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76742.Indiana_Jones_and_the_Raiders_of_the_Lost_Ark
**Mild but fun spoilers that shouldn't hurt your enjoyment of the book**This, the original novelization of Raiders of the Lost Ark, has to be one of the strangest movie-tie-ins I've ever read.
It is so different that one might initially think Black had an early Lucas draft of the story to work with; but then he uses bits of dialogue that match the movie, suggesting that he might have used Lawrence Kasdan's screenplay as a guide (which is actually what is claimed in the book's frontispiece).
Still, all my curiosity aside, the differences between the movie and Black's novelization make his version of Raiders of the Lost Ark worth a read.
Because, simply stated, even the very first paragraph of Campbell Black’s novelization of the legendary film pretty much blows away anything the other authors – McCoy, MacGregor and Caidin (“others” from here on)– have written, at least regarding Indy.For a start, you have a description of Indy.
For example, Black likes to use this particular construction: “The [object/person/location] was [adjective 1], [adjective 2], [adjective 3]” as in “The jungle was darkly verdant, secretive, menacing.” Thankfully, it’s not overused to the point of it becoming a nuisance and mostly appears, again, in the opening chapter.Black is also several steps ahead of the “others” in pacing his story.
El profesor Jones, más conocido como Indiana, un joven y valiente arqueólogo, escapa por poco de un templo en Perú tras las peligrosas argucias de un arqueólogo rival sin escrúpulos llamado Belloq.
De vuelta a los Estados Unidos, es contactado por representantes del Ejército para que les ayude con un telegrama alemán interceptado que habla de unas excavaciones en Egipto.
Indiana Jones reconoce los nombres del mensaje como relativos al Arca de la Alianza, y el mayor experto en ella es el profesor Ravenwood, con cuya hija, Marion, tuvo una relación en el pasado.
Of the Indy novelizations, Raiders of the Lost Ark is probably the most different from the final movie.
Changes are inevitable since the author of the novel is writing from the script at the same time that the filmmakers are shooting from it and divergent paths arise that cannot be reconvened.
The novel is a fun read for those willing to accept the differences and in some ways an interesting way of studying the minor changes made on set or in the editing room that can dramatically change the entire feel of a story.
I read only one Indiana Jones book before this one, and had a hard time liking it, but this one was really good.
I like the fact that these books take place in the 1900s because it wouldn't have been as good if it was made in present times.
One thing I didn't like was the fact that it was hard to get into.
At the beginning of the book, I found it hard to get myself to read it like I do with other books.
However, after a few chapters, I found it really appealing and couldn't get myself to stop.
Jacob just decided to read this one day when he finished his superhero book. He is really into explosions and adventure genre right now..krb 1/24/17He was a little worried to finish this book and not have another one to read after it. However, we found the 2nd and 3rd book in this series at a thrift store yesterday!!! He was over the moon happy...krb 2/1/17
Great novelization. To the point but with more insight into the psyche of one of my favorite on-screen heroes.
Truly a 3 or at most 3.5 star book, but because its Indiana Jones, I had to bump it up.
If you love novel where the dialogue is scant, but there are passages upon passages of internal dialogue always prefaced by "he thought" or "she thought", this is the book for you.
The worst part is there is something missing from Black's writing of Indy, some lack of a soul or something I couldn't put my finger on...
he just doesnt feel right.
Most Star Wars authors get Han Solo correct, have down that perfect Harrison Ford-ness that this book lacks.
So what did you like about the book though?Miloš: I liked that those sillies tied Marion and Indy on that thing because they tried to kill them, but they didn't die did they?Papa: NopeMiloš: And I also liked that in the car, Indy didn't really give up.
And also I like that the plane got destroyed and Indy saved Marion really quick and then Sallah found them.
Indiana Jones is one of the many movie franchises I grew up watching, along with Star Wars, Batman, James Bond, and so on!
Raiders of the Lost Ark is about Archeologist Indiana Jones who travels the world searching for long lost treasures or artifacts in the 1930's/40's and in the World War II Era. Armed with a Bullwhip, and wearing his trademark Fedora and brown leather jacket.
Indiana Jones gives adventure a new name and remains one of my all-time favorite movie series, have the whole set on DVD!
My 10 year old self thought this was one bad-ass book.
Yet another action movie that did not translate well into book form. Faithful to the movie but ho-hum.
the plot was able to highlight strong events such as when he gets the idol from the temple thing.
this book was an easy read the way the plot was able to be simplified.\one cause and effect was when Indy wanted the broach and the girl had it so he found her then since he found her her place got burned down.
this is just some of the things that are cause and effect but the ones that i showed were most important to me.this was a good overall book and a fun read but it was still some parts that i had a hard time understanding.
They tell him about some Nazi archaeological activity near Cairo, which Indy determines to be the possible resting place of the Ark. The Ark is believed to carry an incredibly powerful energy that must not fall into Nazi hands.
There are poisonous snakes in the Ark's resting place, and that is one of the things Indy is super scared of.
Belloq gets the ark, and Indy & Marion are determined to get it back.
After that, Marion ends up blowing up a plane and Now the Nazis must drive the Ark to Cairo, but Indy gets control of the Ark by destroying the vehicles one by one.
A weak novelization. Although the South America sequence (the first part of the film) is handled well, the rest of the adaptation loses its momentum and is a pale reflection of the finished script and film. Obviously written from an early draft of the script, it has many discrepancies and leaves out much of the humor and adventure of the film. Very little extra information or insight into the characters and their background is found (like one finds in a few other novelizations of movie scripts).
This is an example where the movie is better than the book :) this book is what we call 'small coins' : simple, superficial, 'loud' (full of actions), but the words contained are not deep enough to convey proper excitement. While I love the movie, this book is barely decent to be published. If you hadn't watch the movie or read the book, please do yourself a favor. Steer away the book, just watch the movie.
What's not to like about a novelisation of one of the best films I've ever seen? Indiana Jones is locked in a race with Nazi artifact hunters trying to track down the Ark of the Covenant. Basically the movie plot, with a few extra (and interesting) scenes added for good measure. If you liked the movie, you'll like the book.
El libro es muy entretenido desarrolla mejor a los personajes y la historia que la versión cinematográfica, pero en la versión cinematográfica se desarrolla mejor las escenas de acción que en el libro.
I have thoroughly enjoyed the Indiana Jones books - find them so much fun to read - a treasure for all of us kids at heart that should be shared with everyone! I especially enjoyed the fact that they don't have to read in order!
бомба е :)
I watched the movie first and then I wanted to read this. I was surprised how close they are to the same. For example they have a lot of the exact same and close to the same dialogue.
Avoid at all cost. This is not the Indiana you are looking for. Fake and tricksy this book is.
A great retelling of the original story, and actually better in some regards since it expanded on secondary characters and events and gave context to many unexplained plot holes.
Odpočinková kniha - dle mého názoru lepší než film.
One of those novelizations that are basically a direct copy of the script. It is nice that the author describes the scenes vividly.
hi
The Book That I Just Read For the past 5 Days is about a guy named Indiana Jones That Loves Adventuring And Traveling around the world.
One day, he went to a library trying to find books that had information of ancient relics from the past.
After time looking for some books, he came across a bookshelf, he saw a strange book, he pulled it and the bookshelf started to turn around, he went inside and found a map.
I Give This book a 4-star rating because it talks about a man named Indiana Jones traveling around the world to find ancient relics that was from the past.
In one part where Indian sees a picture "There are great jets of light emanating from the Ark piercing the ranks of the opposing army surrounding them, representing them in various states of agony or death." One thing that i really didn't like about the book was that the book should have at least several picture between a chapter.
Indiana Jones put his life on the like to look for this statue and it was taken from him.
Also he didn't stop his journey either because of the dangerous things he was going through.
Like an old archaeological treasure, I recently unearthed a yellowed, first-edition paperback of the Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark novelization from my childhood closet and reread it.Solid, well-written adaptation of the movie.
In addition to all the familiar scenes, we get cutaways not featured in the film -- like Belloq in Berlin and Indiana Jones' arrival in Nepal, in which he has to track down Marion's bar (as opposed to just showing up on the doorstep as he does in the movie).
I think this book is very complete compared with how books use to be written back then, so the story is about Indiana Jones, who is an archaeology professor and adventurer, that has found many ancient treasures.
But now the very future of the world depends on him, by finding one special relic.The Characters are also well developed:Dr. Henry Walton "Indiana" Jones, Jr.: The main character of the book, is an archaeologist and college professor who leads a double life as a fortune hunter seeking out for rare antiquities.
