https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1246526.Der_R_uber_Hotzenplotz
Lustige spannende Kasperlgeschichte mit niedlichen Zeichnungen.
Ich habe noch nie eine Kasperlgeschichte gelesen und kannte auch den Inhalt des Räuber Hotzenplotz nicht. Ich war wirklich positiv überrascht wie gut es mir gefallen hat. Als Kind hätte ich es sicher geliebt.
The plot is of two boys – around eight or nine year olds – who are best friends – Kasperl and Seppel and of the robber Hotzenplotz who works very hard to hide in the woods and wait for his next victim.
NYRB Children’s Classics plans to change that I hope with the publication of such classics that more children will read from different countries and know more.
“The Robber Hotzenplotz” is a funny read for both children and adults and I highly recommend this one.
I do not remember reading the Hotzenplotz books as a child (or listening to them being read to me).
But I don't like Kasperle-stories and so I was not that enthusiastic when my 4 year old son insisted we lend the first book from our public library.But it was fun!
I love the writing.
The language is simple but beatuiful, it has a melodic ring.
And the story is exciting but never frightening.Great book for children of that age, maybe especially for boys.
We bought the second book and my son got the 3rd one for christmas.
This is an excellent story for children to be read aloud.
The chapters are just long enough for the child to be interested, but not too long that they squirm.
The storyline is equisitely fluid and the two main characters are lovable from the start.
Unique though is the situations and the character motivations from typical Disney plots, and strangely enough represents a true "page turner" for children - it excites the imagination with it's distinctiveness (and while hard to find), should be on every child's bookshelf.
I read the books by Otfried Preussler when I was just a little girl, but I enjoy them to this date as much as I did as a child.
I think this is probably one of my most often listened to audio book that I own.
I generally play it at least once a month before I go to bed, sometimes even more often.The story tells of cunning, friendship and magic.
Of two boys that try to trap the robber for the police and who then experience their adventure of their life.
I can only recommend it.
If you love childrens' books this is the one for you!
Visi mes gimstame geri, tik kartais pasirenkame elgtis tragiškai, siekdami patenkinti / atliepti savo poreikius (artima Nonviolent communication filosofijai).
Žiauriau yra tai, kad šiuolaikiniame pasaulyje dažnai stipriai nusileidžiame Hocenplocui, kuris žymiai geriau suvokia savo poreikius, negu mes.
Juk jis paskutinėje knygoje labai gražiai įvardina, kad nori darbo miške, tik ne fiziškai sekinančio darbo.
Taip pat nuostabiai išreikštas Hocenploco liūdesys, kad jis nebenori plėšikauti „būti blogas“, t.y. plėšikavimu patenkinti savo poreikį gyventi gamtoje.
Norisi, kad mes gebėtume atpažinti savo poreikius kaip Hocenplocas.
Gebėtume pasirinkti ne aukso maišą, o tikruosius savo poreikius, kurie slypi giliau, po aukso maišu.
This is my favourite child hood book to which I must thank Mr Moore my year 3 & 4 teacher in my primary school who read this to the class and made me fall in love with reading, I've always loved story's but not so much reading I remember my excitement when my uncle bought me a copy, I still have that copy half a decade later and is a pride possession of my child hood. Every one who enjoy fun children's story's should read this!
The robber Hotzenplotz is one of my favorite characters. The stories about him are timeless and great to read for everyone.
Mein Sohn (6)hat es geliebt und richtig mitgefiebert ^^
Hab das Buch auf der Arbeit im Kinderhort gelesen. Fazit: "Die haben so viel im Buch geändert, dass er gar nicht mehr zum Film passt!"Traurig! An alle Erzieher: Bücher lesen!
I read this story to Elias (6). It's a super cute story, has a couple of curse words. but that was easily changeable as I was reading out loud.
Come on - The Robber Hotzenplotz? Preussler had me with the title alone. And it's a cracking good story, to boot, with amusing illustrations and funny asides from the narrator. This would make an excellent read aloud for boys in particular.
another book i read as a kid..
*Si te gustan las historias de aventuras, de humor, de fantasía y de misterio, ¡sigue leyendo!*La abuela está encantada con el nuevo molinillo de café que le han regalado Jaimito y Pepe, pero el bandido Saltodemata quiere uno exactamente igual y hace lo que mejor saben hacer los bandidos: robarlo.
Rápidamente, la policía toma cartas en el asunto, pero el sargento Matamicrobios les advierte de que hace años que persiguen al bandido y nunca han conseguido atraparlo ni localizar su guarida.Jaimito y Pepe no van a quedarse de brazos cruzados e idean un plan para recuperar el molinillo, pero nadie engaña al bandido Saltodemata así como así.
Kasperl and Seppel vow to track down the Robber Hotzenplotz after he steals the musical coffee mill that they made for Grandmother, but the Robber outwits them and kidnaps them instead.
The fairy tale is well-told in updated language with entertaining pen and ink illustrations that provide clues about the next step in the story.
This reviewer’s only complaints are about the pervasive use of snuff by the bad guys, and one instance of “damn it” by the Robber; these elements could have been removed in consideration of the young audience without detracting from the tale.
Otherwise, this humorous and entertaining story is a quick read that will appeal to a wide variety of readers.
This fast-moving story starts with the robbery of a musical coffee mill and from there becomes a rollicking tale reminiscent of an old world fairy tale.
As a matter of fact there is a fairy in this story, one who is under an enchantment that has turned her into a toad.
I think younger kids (probably 5 to 7) will enjoy the silly antics and fun word play in this zany story originally published in Germany in 1962 and now reissued by The New York Review Children's Collection, complete with the wonderful pen and ink illustrations of F.J. Tripp.
I love this book! It's hilarious both in text and illustration and includes elements of both action and fairy tale. It's a re-release of Otfried Preussler's 1962 story. Thanks to the New York Children's Collection it has a beautiful cloth covering and full-color illustration on the front. What a great way to re-enliven older stories that might appeal to this generation of kids. I want all of the titles in this collection but, alas, I would have to sell a kidney or something, which I probably shouldn't do...
داستان کتاب خیلی روان و ساده و دلچسبی از ماجرای یک راهزن و 2 پسر و یک پلیس دستپاچلفتیسریالش هم وقتی از تلویزیون پخش خیلی جالب بود مخصوصا اون قسمتی که بطری ها رو تو جیب اشون میزاشتن انگاری بازم جا داشتهینطور آهنگ خوندن آقا دزده ،وقتی کتابش رو می خوندم تمام صحنه های فیلمش از جلو چشمم رد میشداون موقعی که کتابها ارزون بود ازاین کتاب و کتاب برادران شیردل چند تا گرفته بودم وبه دانش آموزانم هدیه میدادم
I had this as an audiobook as a kid and listened to it over and over again. Re-reading it recently made me notice how well I still knew some parts. It's a sweet, exciting and funny adventure story based on the typical characters of traditional German puppet shows. As expected, it's not exactly profound, there is nothing in the area of character development and towards the end some bits could really be cut, but all in all I understand why it's a children's classic.
A fairy tale takes a turn for the bizarre in this German classic. Who knew that coffee grinders could be so important? Two boys reminiscent of Max and Moritz (see my review) meet fairies, frogs and wizards in their quest to reclaim grandmother's coffee grinder from the evil (but hilarious) robber Hotzenplotz. (Read in: German)
This is a fabulous book. It is a kid's book. I borrowed it from the library for my third grade grandson, but I also read it myself.This is such a fun book! Exciting and funny, and with colorful characters. The writer is from Germany, so you get a "German" flavor as you read. I really liked the illustrations, too. They were perfect for the story and the atmosphere.
Ich muss sagen.. beim lesen kamen keinerlei Erinnerungen zurück an das Hörspiel, als ich ein Kind war. Nichts! Ich konnte mich an gar nichts erinnern! o:Umso mehr Spaß hat es aber jetzt gemacht :D Die Zeichnungen sind wirklich super niedlich, irgendwie nicht schön aber total komisch :D Hat mir viel Spaß gemacht!
Das war ein gutes Buch für mich, um mein Deutsch zu üben. Schade, meine Enkelkinder nicht verstehen Deutsch, oder ich würde es gern ihnen vorzulesen. Ich sage auch schlecht, weil es eine Geschichte voller Spaß ist. Mein Enkel möchte besonders darauf.
Brala z Jonom!
Bana kitap okumayı sevdiren, benim biricik ilk kitabım <3
Really fun story!!
Very funny, enjoyed it!
Light and pleasant to read, perfect if you're tired from work but still needs to invest some moments learning German...
Çocukluğumda kitaplardan nefret etmeme sebep olan seri...
