https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/521198.A_Coffin_from_Hong_Kong
This book "A coffin from Hong Kong" is quite mysterious and leaves the reader to sit in edge till he finishes the book. James give hints then and there leaving readers to make conjuncture and atlast ends up to new edge. Only at the end part of the book it makes sense to the title .
Such is most of the CHASE books, it will hold you like a rock solid magnet.
Then starts the real roller-coaster ride, when Ryan realizes that he was double-crossed.
And then it is roller-coaster X 2.There is not much of a literary value in this (as usual in most of CHASE) but never think twice before going through it.
And there it was, JHC described Hong Kong that bad that even Alcatraz would be as a good holiday spot.
It should have been edited as Hong Kong plays a vital part in the book.
Good story, full of thriller and suspense. It was the simplest £3,000 Nelson Ryan had ever constructed - however abruptly he understood he was being played for a sucker. A phone call, apparently sufficiently honest, drove him to the murder of a Chinese call-young lady who talked excessively. It additionally pitched him straight into the overflowing, corrupt night life of bright Hong Kong. Starting now and into the foreseeable future, Ryan would stick at nothing to get the executioner who'd crossed him up.
Great novel. Couldn't put it down.
I'd completely forgotten about this book until I found it among my books yesterday. The only thing I remember from it is the recipe of chicken cooked in clay. I guess that was the most impressive thing about it.
An interesting read. It didn't really hold my attention. Definitely not the best Hardley Chase book.
Well, you can understand my excitement..... one of my first JHC novels :)
It was the easiest three grand Nelson Ryan had ever made - but suddenly he realized he was being played for a sucker. A telephone call, seemingly innocent enough, led him to the murder of a Chinese call-girl who'd talked too much. It also pitched him straight into the teeming, sordid night life of colourful Hong Kong. From now on, Ryan would stick at nothing to get the killer who'd crossed him up..
smuggling can be an interesting business,but if u find a dead body in your container...........
Not bad, typical james hadley Chase detective story/thriller
This is quite a book. I loved it. It was much exciting during the second half, couldn't keep it down.
A good page-turner.
Author has adroitly kept the suspense going till the very end.
But I couldn't digest two points of the plot.
1. Why couldn't the trail be followed with the courier to find the messenger who delivered the envelope with the fee for the detective?
This would have led the investigation to the perpetrator of the crime.
In the small city that the crime happened this wouldn't have been impossible.2.
I think airports must be having some ways to check and detect even in the 1970's.Thoroghly enjoyed the story but for these two issues.
As a foreign reader,I just use this for vocabulary building,spots are faint,and if this translated to my native laguage version,it just can be read by students in junior middle school.
I am not a fan of thriller but this book kept me engaged till the last page.
Another classic JHC mystery
bad
this was my first James Hadley Chase novel. written at a very languid pace the mystery unravels in the final pages. till then it was a whodunit. classic stuff. will read more of his books.
This is a fairly standard, but good, PI tale of low-rent investigator Nelson Ryan, a man who takes it personally when he’s framed for a murder he didn’t commit.Ryan gets a call one day from a man named John Hardwick who wants to hire Ryan to follow his wife.
Now Ryan, a man who it turns out does have a moral compass, feels obligated to take the job–in spite of the fact that something doesn’t smell right:I had been working as an investigator for the past five years, and during that time, I had run into a number of screwballs.
Πρωταγωνιστής του βιβλίου είναι ένας ιδιωτικός ντετέκτιβ, ο Νέλσον Ράιαν, που τώρα τελευταία οι δουλειές του δεν πάνε καλά, όμως μια μέρα δέχεται ένα παράξενο τηλεφώνημα από έναν τύπο, ο οποίος είναι παντρεμένος και επειδή λείπει συχνά πυκνά για ταξίδια, θέλει να μαθαίνει τι κάνει η γυναίκα ενόσω αυτός λείπει.
Και γρήγορα-γρήγορα ο Νέλσον Ράιαν δέχεται και 300 δολάρια, τα πιο εύκολα της ζωής του.
Και μετά από διάφορα γεγονότα, ταξιδεύει στην Ασία, και συγκεκριμένα στο Χονγκ Κονγκ, για να ξεδιαλύνει το μυστήριο.
Εξαιρετικά καλογραμμένο και ενδιαφέρον μυθιστόρημα, με μπόλικο μυστήριο, δράση, κυνηγητά, φόνους και πολλές εκπλήξεις στο τέλος.
It's my first Chase's book that I read. English is non-native languages for me but to read A coffin from Hong Kong wasn't difficult. Sometimes I used dictionary but not frequently. I liked the plot and protagonist's image and also I liked the place where story is taking place (Hong Kong). I've never been in Hong Kong and any place in Asia and this story gives me axcellent opportunity to discover Vietnam and life and people 50 years ago.
Another masterpiece from the maestro as soon as Private Eye Nelson Ryan receives a mysterious phone call things start to happen, the murder of a beautiful Chinese woman that Nelson Ryan is to take the rap for sets in motion a series of events that take him to the slums of Hong Kong, then follow all the twists and turns we've come accustomed to with JHC.....
My first JHC, after hearing and/or reading about the author a lot. Not only was the plot amazing, but also the visual imagery was outstanding: the dark night of Hong Kong. I am also glad because I discovered who the villain was halfway through the storyline, an aspect that really doesn't upset me at all. Now I am hooked with this writer.
Not too bad but I felt that this book lacked a character development. I think it needed a bit more interaction between the characters. the interaction felt a bit dry. writing style is alright but it didn't captivate me very much, I kept getting distracted .
Instresting
:) James Hadley Chase Books are amazing to read, just like Perry Mason. He manages to spin amazing Mystery, without complicating the plot much.
i want to read
Como todos los libros que he leído de este autor, una trama original, la historia bien contada, personajes bien delimitados y un muy buen final. Se lee solo.
Enjoy of thrilling
A good detective
