https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13413589-frost-burned
Re-Read. Still love ❤ Another awesome Mercy Thompson Hauptman book! It was really sad of one of the pack members, but that has to happen. The whole wolf pack is taken and Mercy has to help set them free, in which she did in a very cool way. I thought the book was going in a different direction, but Patricia Briggs put in a nice change of events. I thought it was great! I recommend this whole series to people that love werewolves, shape shifters, fae and vampires. But it is mainly about the werew
Still love ❤️ Another awesome Mercy Thompson Hauptman book!
The whole wolf pack is taken and Mercy has to help set them free, in which she did in a very cool way.
I thought the book was going in a different direction, but Patricia Briggs put in a nice change of events.
I thought it was great!
I recommend this whole series to people that love werewolves, shape shifters, fae and vampires.
But it is mainly about the werewolves, in which I love the most.
I also really loved the ghost element that was added to the book.
XDSo this was already the seventh book in the Mercy Thompson series and even after all those many books I still can’t help but have to love Patricia Briggs heroine.
*lol*Still, I’m very thankful that Patricia Briggs and the other authors wrote about those strong female leads and I think their stories influenced a lot of other young writers to do the same thing.
XDAnyway, like all of the books before it I really loved “Frost Burned” and I can’t wait to continue with the Mercy Thompson series.
"Expected publication: Spring 2013"*blinks**blinks again*HELL.NO!(╯°□°）╯︵ ┻━┻UPDATE:February, huh? *sniff*POST-READHmm.Still not sure how I feel about this one...
4.5 starsA few weeks ago, Patty Briggs and her husband Mike joined a chat room to discuss both Frost Burned and Patty’s previous books.
When I shared with her my opinion that Fair Game, her third Charles and Anna book, is the best one she’s ever written, she assured me that Frost Burned is even better.
In Frost Burned, she is truly the Alpha’s mate – she thinks as one, acts as one, and protects as one.
I certainly understand the need: Adam and Mercy spent most of this book apart and their mate bond can only be used so much.
Want to win a copy of Frost Burned? Want to read an interview with Patricia Briggs?!! Then click here! Check out this review and others like it at BadAssBookReviews Beyond typing “I loved it. I loved it. OMG I loved it.” over and over again, it is hard to write a coherent review. Why? Because I loved this book so much. It was an emotional and a fun experience reading it. I feel like I lived another life through the pages of this book!Patricia Briggs’s talent seems to increase with every book th
I feel like I lived another life through the pages of this book!Patricia Briggs’s talent seems to increase with every book that she writes.
Frost Burned brings a heightened level of complexity and character development to the Mercy world — in the same manner that Fair Game did for the Alpha & Omega world.
Frost Burned feels longer than previous Mercy books and is very meaty.
I live to read when he is frustrated with Mercy and yells, “Mercy!”I gotta say that I love what being an alpha and submissive means to Briggs.
Because yes, it is that fabulous.Frost Burned starts with Adam and almost his entire pack being kidnapped by possible federal agents (although everyone is pretty sure they are rogue, human radicals).
The three of them along with some help from Stefan (I love this vampire too) set out on a plan to keep Jesse hidden and safe and try to figure out where Adam is being kept and how to get them all out.I think the Mercy/Kyle/Ben dynamic is a really nice in here.
And I like the characters, but for this one the plot was....not weak, but the main protagonists, were more reactive than active.
I know, sounds strange - here's some examples: (view spoiler)[Adam and his pack don't escape, the mercenary captain gives him the key to his cuffs - having him kill everyone was a nice bit of revenge, but would have been even better for Adam to figure out how to escape.
(hide spoiler)]I have the next book and will be reading it as I do like the characters and world and there was a chapter teaser at the end about Adam's ex-wife showing up, which promises for lots of conflict!
Poor Mercy can't catch a break.
Hardly recovered from injuries suffered in River Marked, she's trying to distract her stepdaughter Jesse by taking her Black Friday shopping on Thanksgiving evening.
At first Mercy thinks it's because Jesse asked her when she and Adam were going to have a baby, but it soon becomes apparent that her Alpha werewolf husband and almost all of his pack have been abducted.
As Mercy scrambles to try to find Adam, protect Jesse, and rescue someone who's been left behind, it becomes clear that these problems, as terrible as they are, are just the tip of the iceberg.
This series is one of the best Paranormal/Urban Fantasy series out there. Patricia Briggs has a wonderful ability to create a world that feels real and is totally believable. Mercy Thompson as found her place in Adam’s life, even though there are few things that just get to her…  Frost Burned, the 7th book in the series starts a day after Thanksgiving and Mercy and her stepdaughter, Jesse decide to do some last minute shopping. Unable to contact Adam, they return home to discover that the entire
Patricia Briggs has a wonderful ability to create a world that feels real and is totally believable.
Mercy Thompson as found her place in Adam’s life, even though there are few things that just get to her…
It is now up to Mercy to figure out how she can rescue Adam and the pack.Because of their incredible bond and unique abilities they were able to do things that have not been previously done; she gets into Adam’s body and is able to see what he sees.
She will need all her resources, including her growing powers.I adore Mercy and Adam as a couple…have I said that before???
I was really missing the pack, the fae and especially Stefan but of course, we don't get any time to enjoy it.
(What in the heck happened to Samuel??) I really enjoyed catching up with Stefan and Mercy spending time with Ben but I missed having more Warren.
I think my one main complaint is that I felt PB over explained things.
Not only is this the seventh book of the series and we should know..and remember that by now but she explains it at least four other times.
I was pleased to see Stephan back on the scene and I also really enjoyed getting to know Tad a bit better but the best thing was a surprise appearance by Asil (who is a regular in the Alpha & Omega series).
He is completely crazy and more than a little dangerous but I've been fascinated by his character since we first met him so it was nice to see him out and about causing trouble with Mercy.I love these characters, I love this world, I love the fast paced stories full of plot twists and shocking surprises, I love how things are changing with the werewolves now they've come out to the public and I'm incredibly excited to see how the new situation with the fae effects things as the series continues.
I am a huge, and I mean HUGE, Mercy Thompson fan and I was expecting this book to be as awesome as the previous ones.
My expectations are, and always will be, high from the things that I love.
I cannot be a fangirl about this, I really can’t.Frost Burned’s plot is one of the most unoriginal and boring plots I have read in a long time.
It lacked the “danger” that I was expecting, and just brought up a way too serious and, yes this is the key word here, boring man.
Meh.I will be reading the next Mercy though.
I wrote this wonderful review and deleted it!
Yup, completely gone...
I need a vacation or at least a week of uninterrupted reading ;D...
So now I’m just going with a simple review.I loved Frost Burned.
I loved having some past characters back as well as a few new ones.
Since the pack has been kidnapped, Mercy is on her own making allies and connections to help her save her loved ones.
I’m a huge fan of this series and Patricia Briggs' writing.
I was thrilled with Frost Burned and where it might lead next.
This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life in Books.This was another great installments in an excellent series.
I wanted to listen to this book for hours at a time because I wanted to stay with Mercy and the gang and make sure that everything would work out for them.
She is able communicate with Adam through her mate bond so she isn't completely unaware of things that are happening.I really enjoyed spending time with some of my favorite characters.
She is quickly becoming one of my favorite narrators and I look forward to listening to more of her work soon.I would highly recommend this series to others.
Whether those characters are the main characters, the secondary characters or even the side characters, it doesn't matter, they are all great and truly help make this series so much fun and so addicting.It was so much fun to not only see all those characters this time around but to get some unexpected ones as well from her Alpha & Omega series.
I adore Bran and Charles and while they aren't new to this series, Asil is and I loved, loved, that he got to play a part in this book.
He is one of my favorite secondary characters from Briggs Alpha & Omega series.
NOTHING CAN HAPPEN TO ADAM!!!!NOTHING!I LUZ HIM!!MERCY BETTER KICK SOME SERIOUS ASS TO FIND HIM!GRRRR!!UPDATE: LOOK AT THAT COVAH! MERCY IS SO FIERCE!-----------------------------------------------------------------------I am at a loss for words even though it has been two days since I've finished reading Frost Burned, but let me just say that it. was. worth. the. wait. Patricia Briggs, you own me. Review to come later.
Each books shows the development of the characters. I enjoy each of these books greatly
But, I guess that gives me time to write my review now.I'm not sure I love it quite as much as my original thoughts below, but I do love this book still.
I love Adam, completely.There's not a whole lot of a chance to figure out who the baddie is in this book until it's revealed to you - and that's probably my only complaint.
Even if I never can figure it out (and there've been a few books out there that have thoroughly stumped me - I love those the best), being able to see the breadcrumbs on re-reads is a real pleasure for me.
I stopped reading this series years ago (I can't remember why) but it's time I picked it up again.UPDATE: I remember why now. I must be the only woman alive who doesn't like Adam. Sorry, Adam. It's not you, it's me.
Frost Burned didn't seem to move the series on very much either, I think this book seemed a bit like a filler, in the previous book we find out a lot about Mercy's past and in others we have been finding out about the different races and watching Adam and Mercy get together, this book I feel like we could have skipped it without missing out anything too important.Wow this sounds like such a negative review when in reality it took me about a day to read this because I was so engrossed!
I don't mind the it was a filler book, I just enjoy reading about Adam and Mercy and the rest of the Pack, but my expectations have become really high for Patricia Briggs and I think I just expected more.
*Buddy (re)-read with Glass and V <333**Review without spoilers* Coyote never loses, Coyote told me. Because I change the rules of the games my enemies play. What are the rules of your game? Unlike many other sequels that have disappointed me over the last year or so, this book didn’t. The only reason I didn’t give it 5 stars is because of the lose ends Patricia Briggs left in the plot. That being said, if you are a fan of the series you shouldn’t be disappointed by it. I also would like to s
A thing I love in this series, and this book didn’t disappoint, is that even though trouble seems to love her, Mercy isn’t a reckless heroine nor a damsel in distress.
In the pack, I was just Mercy- but if ten more people called me the Alpha's mate, I was going to hit someone.
Another thing I love in this series is Adam-Mercy relationship.
And icing on the cake, for the first time in the series, in this book we have 2 chapters with Adam POV.
(hide spoiler)] That being said, I really appreciated that Patricia Briggs didn’t compromise on what Adam had to do.
A lukewarm meh...I feel like I'm losing interest in this series..
Here we go again motherfuckers. Goddamn i love Mercy and just this series so much “He bit his tongue because he’d look like an idiot if he yelled at her for not arguing with him” Nah i get it Adam knows Mercy is being herself when she argues and bites back. Otherwise she is broken and weak. She always fights, what do you do when she doesn’t bother to fight back?  “Zee taught magic the way he taught mechanicking—by making Tad do all the work while he stood behind him and made acerbic corrections.
Goddamn i love Mercy and just this series so much
“He bit his tongue because he’d look like an idiot if he yelled at her for not arguing with him”
Nah i get it Adam knows Mercy is being herself when she argues and bites back.
Adam showing up to try and save Mercy from the idiotic trouble she’s gotten into He literarlly roars at her like ~bitch what the fuck are you doing???
we suppose to be relaxing~and Mercy is just like ~sorry love i gotta~I love their banter, it’s just so real and well-done.
I skimmed through most of the book, skipped entire chapters, and read only the first 15% and last 5%. Since doing that alone took me over a month, I think it's safe to say I'm done with this series. I'll only reconsider reading the rest of these books if the focus shifts from the boring plot to Adam the characters.*Buddy read with Jenny. Read her review here.*
I love Mercy. She's not your typical stock UF character. So, here are  15 questions  about Mercy's age, ancestry, beliefs, occupation, etc. Frost Burned  is set in the Yakima Valley of Washington State, not far from Mercy's home in the Tri-Cities: Kennewick, Pasco, and Richland. This is a fae-rly satisfying urban fantasy involving werewolves, a coyote-shifter, a few fae, some vampires, a witch or two, and humans. I very much enjoyed the bulk of it, but... Who is the informant? Is the money man
Most moving scene in the book was when Adam confronted his identity, remembering his past as a child in the church and now wondering if God could love -- or even make -- a monster.
Also, the scene when Mercy drew the silver from Adam's body (but that scene went down too easily, and Briggs didn't adequately portray how the whole pack felt as it healed miraculously).
Loved the ♥ scene in the garage, with Adam and Mercy getting some tender time.
She's cool, keeping Jessie safe (but I didn't agree with the location), finding and protecting the remnants of the pack (loved Ben and Kyle), and doing what she can to help Adam.
4.5 Kick Ass Stars!The Hauptman’s: Adam and Mercedes   This is the 7th book in the Mercy Thompson series- I feel like I have been waiting FOREVER for this book to come out! I was so happy to get more Mercy and Adam!  FYI- If you haven’t read books 1-6, there may be a few spoilers... We start out with Mercy and Adam’s daughter Jesse out Black Friday shopping. Mercy wrecks her beloved ‘rabbit’ and tries to get ahold of Adam. She can’t reach him. Or anyone in the pack for that matter. The pack, Ada
Mercy wrecks her beloved ‘rabbit’ and tries to get ahold of Adam.
Decision three- make the ones who took them regret it.Mercy must first make sure that Jesse is safe, along with Kyle- Warren’s mate who wasn’t abducted and Ben, the only one in Adam’s pack to get away (I <3 Ben!).
“But Adam, good and evil are real- you know better than anyone.
If you like Urban Fantasy/PNR type books full of werewolves, shape shifters, skin walkers, vampires, faes, and many other supernatural beings with a kick ass heroine and sexy , tough alpha male- these are for you!!!
It was up to Mercy to find a way to hide Jesse, helped Kyle (who was not kidnapped but held hostage nevertheless), rescued Adam somehow, in addition to find out who was behind the kidnapping.-------------It was the testament of how AWESOME this book (and to that extent, of course, Patricia Briggs) was, that I didn't even feel that it had been two years since the last time I read about Mercedes Thompson -- back in 2011.
However, just within the first few chapters, Briggs brought me back to the world of Mercy Thompson, Adam Hauptman, and the rest of the pack ...
Spring 2013 for the next Mercedes Thompson? I really hope that date is wrong! I'm already waiting till Winter 2012 for the next Alpha and Omega, Fair Game. Now it's 2 years till more Mercy. There are no words to describe my level of frustration!!!UPDATE: Worth the wait :)
Re-read March 29th 2017
Then they get the book and it’s like “Oh, I am disappointed.” Well, fans of Mercy Thompson, you will not be disappointed with “Frost Burned.”First of all, I loved this book.
Mercy and Adam were on their honeymoon and so there was no four-letter word Ben, no fierce Kyle, and barely a glimpse of the crotchety Fae mechanic, Zee. I’m happy to say the cast is back and Mercy Thompson is as entertaining as she’s ever been.This book reminds me of earlier installments, but it isn’t repetitive in anyway.
Bad things definitely happen to the pack in book seven.Mercy can’t find Adam or any members of the pack.
