https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28553.Dragondrums
[2.5 stars] In it's defense, I'm also reading Oathbringer, so everything else seems more lackluster than usual. It was, however, my least favorite of the trilogy.
You had done a brilliant job with the first two books in this "trilogy", so please do explain why you felt compelled to switch your focus from our beloved heroine Menolly to her rambunctious sidekick, Piemur?
Do you think that you can write a slow-moving, rather repetitive adventure story that lacks the resonance of the first two books in this trilogy, and we won't notice?
Piemur is not even close to being fleshed out as a character and, due to this, does not have enough weight as a driving force for this story.Why this final book jumps gears so completely is beyond me.
This book follows Piemur.
You first meet him in the first two Harper Hall books with Menolly.
He is Menolly's first friend in the Harper Hall.
Piemur has a beautiful Soprano voice as a young man, but his voice begins to crack as he begins to go through the change to becoming a man.
Piemur is a good boy, but he does get into trouble.
This makes him a great asset to the Harper Hall, but in ways that others can not know.
He becomes a drum apprentice, but while there he is treated really poorly and ends up pretty badly hurt after a fall caused by others.
The plots still as riveting, the world-building still as thrilling and the characters still as good - well, maybe just a tiny bit more teen angst than I look for these days, but otherwise just as good!Dragondrums is the third of the "Harper" books and though it also works fine as a standalone, the previous two books did initially establish Piemur, the main character in the book.
This work accidentally brings him to the Southern continent and his adventures there are significantly different to any others as McCaffrey uses this story to explore a continent that is entirely different to the world of the North, so well established from previous books.At first I was a little miffed - I really wanted more of Menolly, to be honest.
Why couldn't she have stopped at two? Why does every fantasy series have to be a trilogy or longer? This mediocre book drags the whole Harper Hall trilogy down with it.
This was one of my first "adult" fantasy books and I LOVED it!
I just started writing little bits for a mid sized daily in our area (or at least trying - I got a couple little mini features in - but I was only in 9th grade!).Being so moved by this strange (to me) book, I decided to write Anne, never expecting to hear back, but sure enough, a great little handwritten letter found it's way into my parent's mailbox a month or so later.
imaginative).I wrote her a couple more times and each time she responded.
Now this - this is interesting, because it's so clearly a book meant to be read with information from other books in the series, information that the first two Harper Hall books don't have.
There are a lot of political machinations that are only referenced - so much of what's going on in the southern weyr is confusing to me!
- and the choice to switch protagonists is an interesting one, too.The resolution is less satisfying.
But that's a problem I have with this entire series: there's no standard conflict and resolution.
Like many who read this book, I felt disappointed when I started it. I was expecting to read a continuation of the story of our dear Menolly but curiously the author chose to leave it aside and tell us the story of a less interesting character. The only good thing I can find is the fact that, through the story of the central character, we are following some interesting developments like the further maturation of Menolly, beyond that could not find anything interesting. The median rating comes with the utmost leniency.
Each Pern novel can be read as a stand alone, but Dragondrums is the third book in the Harper Hall trilogy so if you want to read the books in the order, head over to Dragonsong (book 1) and Dragonsinger (book 2).The story starts at the end of Dragonsinger where Menolly is made a Journeyman.
I thought that my favourite books would be the first ones because they are told by Menolly and because they focus on those gorgeous little things named fire lizards but Dragondrums is such a special story of someone trying to find himself.
When I picked this book up to read, I was a little disappointed that it wasn't a continuation of Menolly's story.
I wanted to watch Menolly and Sebell develop their relationship!
Piemur has never been thrilled with singing female parts, but he'd hoped this one would bring him to the real Lessa's attention.
Piemur's story is fun and adventuresome.
When we met him in the previous Harper Hall books, he was a young scamp, always getting into scrapes and causing mischief.
I wish there were a fourth book as I'm not quite ready to leave Piemur behind.
I enjoyed this conclusion to the Harper Hall Trilogy despite the fact that Menolly isn't the main character. I like Piemur and enjoyed reading as his story unfolded. There was enough of Menolly & other characters I enjoy to keep me happy.
Despite the change in focus from Menially to Piemur I still really enjoyed this book. When Piemur's voice broke rather than destroy his career it opened up a multitude of opportunities for him. Piemur soon finds himself using his skills to gather information for the Master Harper. Its entertaining reading about the situations he manages to get himself into and out of.
I really loved Piemur but I was so used to see things through Menolly's eyes that I thought I wouldn't be able to like the book.
He has such a great spirit that he sees the positive aspect of things.I really don't want to spoil the story by telling you what sorts of mischief he conjures up in this book, but I can promise that you won't be disappointed.
I thought that my favourite books would be the first ones because they are told by Menolly and because they focus on those gorgeous little things named fire lizards but Dragondrums is such a special story of someone trying to find himself.
I liked this one almost as much as the first two. I think I would have understood and liked it a little more in the context of the whole series; I was reading the Harper Hall trilogy, but it looks like there's another book—The White Dragon—that comes between Dragonsinger and Dragondrums. Dragondrums included a lot of political stuff that I didn't understand, and I assume that is explained in The White Dragon. I am liking these books enough to possibly go back to the beginning and read all the Pern books.

He's a pretty entertaining character usually so you'd think that's a good thing, but in this installment he manages to take a personal journey similar to Menolly's in Dragonsong, and frankly he gets a little boring.We do get some updates on Menolly, but she's older and established within the Hall hierarchy, and McCaffrey's decided to explore other bits of the Pern landscape using Piemur instead.
It's just not as engaging, and the plot's contained to this book, so you might not even notice the omission if you do read the rest of Pern without this one.
I remember distinctly not liking this book as much as the other two of this series when I read it back as a child (oh, yes I was doing a reread bit for a couple days), but it turns out that it's actually a fun book!
I think it was just that Ms McCaffrey changed the focus of the story from my beloved friend Menolly and moved over to a newer face with Piemur.
There is some fun with the politics of Pern in the background and I found it to be as always a sweet and short read.

The focus shifts from Menolly to a young imp who is at the Harper Hall but doesn't take his skill as seriously as Menolly: Piemur. This is another delightful adventure. I think this book proved so popular that McCaffrey almost had no choice but to include him in further stories about Pern. Again, as in the first two books of this series, these are suitable for kids unlike the regular Pern series. I've reread this series over and over and must remember to do so again in the near future!
The finale of the trilogy focuses is set three turns (years) after the events in the previous two books. This time the book centres around the young Piemur as his life changes due to his voice breaking.The opening chapters of this book are a little clumsy as McCaffrey tries to weave in the essential parts of the previous two books. However it still remains an absolute favourite.
And Piemur gets the spotlight he deserves. I love Piemur, but in this book I have a few more issues regarding reactions to something huge Piemur does and the relationship between two characters. Still an old favorite though and I appreciate being able to come to it with a new light.
I like Piemur, but I don't LOVE Piemur. And I felt like I just was reading for more snippets of Menolly and Sebell mostly.
This is an amazing series and I'm so glad I discovered them again on Audible!
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 3/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 2/5This final volume of the children's/young adult Harper Hall trilogy shows a McCaffrey more in control of the writing than she was when she started the Pern books but struggling to do new things with the saga.
Dragonsong had added something new to the world by letting us see the life in a sea hold, and Dragonsinger built up the lifestyle of the craftsholders, but Dragondrums only gives the briefest introduction to a new place, opting to tantalize the reader by foreshadowing future books rather than satisfying us in this one.With the initial two adult Pern books, McCaffrey's done something with the standard trope of women as objects.
Also I think this book works better if you've read enough of the Dragonrider books to understand what's happening on the Southern continent and what the problems are between the Oldtimers and the rest of Pern.
So save this one until you've read the other early Pern books and be prepared for a different kind for story than the first two in the series and you'll be OK.NB - You can get the rest of Menolly's story in The White Dragon, which I think can be read before this one if you're feeling impatient.
Finished the third in the Harper Hall trilogy which switched points of view from misfit Menolly to one of my favorite mischievous boys in literature: Piemur, the undersized soprano and con man with a sharp wit and kind heart. When his voice breaks, Piemur needs to find his new place in the world. Another satisfying read, recommended for high school and YA.
Dans ce tome, on s'intéresse à Piemur, qui doit changer d'affectation, parce qu'il est en train de muer. Il se voit enseigner l'art des tambours. Il va se rendre dans le continent méridional pour savoir ce que manigancent les anciens, qui deviennent un peu suspects...Je commence à vraiment envie de revoir le cycle principal. J'ai trouvé un peu long, sauf la fin (avec Farli et Stupide), ahhh ces paysages, ça fait rêver et j'ai envie de continuer mon exploration.
Mais une nouvelle page démarre pour lui car il devient en quelque sorte un aide du Harpiste en chef en étant à l'atelier des Tambours, utilisés depuis toujours pour faire passer les messages les plus urgents et les alertes.Personne ne s'étonne donc de le voir partir en mission régulièrement et Piemur est bien décidé à avoir sa part de l'aventure, elles sont nombreuses.Ha Piemur, quel changement !
Out of the three books, this one is the best even though the main character switches from Menolly to her best friend.
I found a lot of similarities in the rivarly of Peimer and the drum hall boys (as Menolly struggled with in the 2nd book with the girls), but overall I found this one a more exciting read with more world of Pern things going on.
I felt that more could have been done with the book and characters which left overall a little dissatified with the series.
In the end, I think it is a good series for tween girls to read.
I have been reading her books since the fifth grade and have loved them always.
I miss those days) I would read her books just once as they came out.
Reading Dragonsinger in the 5th grade began a lifelong love of sci-fi and fantasy and even though it kind of made me a fist class nerd (picture nose always buried in a book) I wouldn't want it any other way.
Hope to review all of these books individually in time but I want to devote the proper attention to it and with my two little monkeys--climbing around that would be difficult!
