https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24807186-wolf-by-wolf
There would be no dressing up as a maid. No cyanide slipped into his crystal glass of mineral water. The Fuhrer’s death was to be a loud, screaming thing. A broadcast of blood over the Reichssender. This book is an action-packed adventure, but it cannot be denied that a lot of its strength comes from one of the most fascinating premises I've ever read. Two, really. Though this may have been done by other authors, it was the first time I'd read anything like it. Wolf By Wolf imagines a reality b
And it is damn compelling.Almost everyone knows about the atrocities committed by the Nazis during World War II, and most people will know of some book or movie that explores the possibility of a world where Hitler won the war.
What fewer people know is that medical experiments were conducted on concentration camp prisoners - painful, genetic alterations, attempts to cure homosexuality, injections of dyes to create blue eyes, etc.Graudin takes the "what if" of Hitler winning the war and pairs it with the "what if" of an experiment that resulted in something else.
4.5, really enjoyed it
This book, even though at times difficult to read due to the subject matter of the holocaust (and it continuing), was an exceptional read! Highly recommend, truly unique!!
"She-wolf. An interesting choice.""I didn't choose it," she told him. "It chose me." In the 1940's Yael was living in a Nazi death camp where she was selected for an experiment. She starts receiving injection that are suppose to help erase her Jewish traits. They wanted to turn her into the perfect Aryan specimen. What they didn't expect was that it would turn her into something more. Yael is now someone she doesn't even recognize. A girl who can't even remember her own face. She goes from livi
Yael is one of the most unique females I've ever read.
The side characters in this book do a good job of adding angst without overshadowing the true message of this story.
Felix is the kind of brother most wish for and Luka is the mysterious hooded bad boy that we all love to read about.This is what leads me to what was truly amazing about this book...
I also thought that I was going to love the action packed race moments (I really enjoyed those moments), but I found myself looking forward reading about Yael's youth.
You are special. You can live. You are going to change things. 3 1/2 stars.Adolf Hitler won World War II. He is one of the most powerful men on earth. Experiments on human beings to make them pure – blue eyes and blond hair – are conducted on death camp prisoners. To honour the Great Victory, every year a motorcycle race is held for teenagers from the Hitler Youth and the Great Japan Sincerity Association.Yael, a victim of the experiments, decides to impersonate last year’s victor, Adele Wolfe,
To honour the Great Victory, every year a motorcycle race is held for teenagers from the Hitler Youth and the Great Japan Sincerity Association.Yael, a victim of the experiments, decides to impersonate last year’s victor, Adele Wolfe, and kill Adolf Hitler in hope of sparking a revolution from the population.
Killing Adolf Hitler is all she’s thinking about, making the world a better place is all she’s thinking about – or so.Come in Luka and Felix, the two boys who are putting her plan to risk.
According to the stories, when the führer first announced his vision of an occupied Africa and Europe to his generals, some of them had laughed. “Impossible,” they’d said. “It can’t be done.” But the word impossible held no sway over a man like Hitler. What if World War II had gone differently? What if the Axis powers had actually won? And what if that awful human experimentation done at concentration camps had actually amounted to the creation of something?Set in an alternate history our story
And what if that awful human experimentation done at concentration camps had actually amounted to the creation of something?Set in an alternate history our story is with Yael, a seventeen year old with the remarkable ability to change her appearance.
It doesn't exactly go as planned instead leaving Yael with the capability of changing her appearance at will.
Teamed up with the resistance, a plan has been concocted.Every year since the end of the war, there has been a motorcycle race across continents through the land both Hitler and Hirohito claim called the Axis Tour.
"Once upon a different time, there was a girl who lived in a kingdom of death.
Wolves howled up her arm.
A whole pack of them -- made of tattoo ink and pain, memory and loss.
It was the only thing about her that ever stayed the same.
Her story begins on a train."  If you haven't read this book, then I'm tell you right now: DROP what you're doing or what you're reading and pick this book up.
As soon as I read the synopsis for a Wolf by Wolf, I just had to read this story.
Although I did pick up
If you haven't read this book, then I'm tell you right now: DROP what you're doing or what you're reading and pick this book up.
As soon as I read the synopsis for a Wolf by Wolf, I just had to read this story.
by a plot twist that bad since I read Red Queen and oh man, the ending to Wolf by Wolf 
At first, I was a little worried that a story about a motorcycle race would 
since interests in motorcycles and automobiles weren't really at the top of my list, but this book just had me at the edge of my seat from beginning to end.
"She-wolf. An interesting choice.""I didn't choose it," she told him. "It chose me." I can already tell this is going to be a long one, I have so much to say about this book!Let me just start off by saying that I am no stranger to World War II historical fiction. I have an entire bookshelf devoted to the topic (both fiction and nonfiction) and have read my share. something about that entire era just intrigues me. This one is definitely right up there with my favorites :) it surprised me and exc
This one is definitely right up there with my favorites :) it surprised me and exceeded all of my expectations (and I've seen nothing but five star reviews among my gr friends so my expectations were high!) But while I've read so many books about WW2, this one is so different because it's alternate historical fiction: what if Hitler had won the war?
The year is 1956 and the death camps continue, Hitler has conquered Europe, Russia, Northern Africa, the Middle East, and into Asia, and he's more powerful than ever.This is the story of Yael, a young Jewish girl who is sent to a camp when she's about six years old.
Once upon a different time, there was a girl who lived in a kingdom of death. Wolves howled up her arm. A whole pack of them-made of tattoo ink and pain, memory and loss. It was the only thing about her that ever stayed the same.  This book is fabulous. Absolutely fabulous.It’s one of those rare occasions where I can honestly say I wouldn’t change a thing about it. For me, this book was perfect. I loved every second of it. For once, I picked up a book not because of a review by one of my GR fr
This book is essentially, Ryan Graudin’s take on those two questions.
The result is an exciting and compelling story that follows one of my new favourite female characters.Yael is part of the Nazi resistance.
Yael believes that her biggest challenge will be handling her bike, an assumption that quickly proves inaccurate, as she comes to realize that even those she hates, those she believes to be blind followers of the Hitler regime, have more to them then meets the eye.To make things even more interesting, the author also added in a sci-fi element, which takes the premise from cool to extraordinary.
Extraordinary. Prepare to hear me gushing about this book closer to release. But if it's not on your radar GET IT THERE.
I wrote this book. I'm pretty partial to it. ;)For every 1000 adds WOLF BY WOLF receives, I'll be posting a teaser!1k teaser: https://instagram.com/p/1pBu04lIkP/2k teaser: https://instagram.com/p/47JEFnlIlf/3k teaser: https://instagram.com/p/7Vq7qOlIjq/4k teaser: https://instagram.com/p/8esry5lIos/I'll be posting another teaser at the 5k add point if it is before the release date!!ALSO, for those of you who are curious, WOLF BY WOLF is the first book in a duology! The sequel is tentatively scheduled for Fall 2016!
This book was amazing
They sing a song of rotten bones.”One girl with a thousand identities on an impossible mission with a single goal: Kill Hitler.3.5/5 stars.Cover and title had me hooked the minute I first saw this on Goodreads.
I can't quite pin it down, but I feel like there was not enough character depth to actually bond with Yael or any other characters.
And while three of them (Yael, Felix, Luka) had lots of moments, I would've loved to know more about some of the many side characters.But there is still hope, so let's see what the sequel will bring!Find more of my books on Instagram
I think it's an understatement to say  I am disappointed. The premise of this sounded pretty neat. Skinshifting? An International motorcycle race? A Jewish girl's sole purpose to assassinate Fuhrer Hitler?That sounds badass. Honestly though, I was really bored for an overwhelming majority of this book. I kept hoping that with a little patience this story would take off, but for me it just didn't.Literally the only interesting sections in the story dealt with the main character's past. Yael has a
Between those little glimpses of her past we have a lot of internal monologue about personal identity, which was relevant but boring.
And overall a very uneventful race to the finish line.I am not someone who often predicts endings or twists.
When I am able to guess one of the only twists in this story without even a moment of concentrated effort, that is a problem.I'm giving it a 2 stars because the premise was interesting, and there were some small parts I actively enjoyed.
I was expecting to like this book just not love it! It blew me away! With the plot twists and the history and the added slight element of sci fi or paranormal (not sure yet!) I fell in love plus a motorcycle race?!To say I am desperately wanting the sequel right now would be a vast understatement!
I guess I would say that she was pragmatic, a realist who allowed herself little glimmers of hope.One of my biggest gripes about single POV books is that we, as readers, rarely get the full sense of the world the character inhabits.
Which allows us to get right to the meat & potatoes of the story of Yael, her mission, and the people she interacts with along the way.We do get interesting side characters, even though most of the other racers are window dressing, there for plot and occasional interaction, but not really coming to the forefront of the tale.
I DNF this like a month ago and I'm making it official now.
Like, I was so confused throughout the 150 pages I read....what the fuck was happening????
It's like when you're watching Pewdiepie videos and non stop laughing and you're little brother takes your thumb to unlock your phone password and YOU DON'T EVEN FUCKING REALIZE WHAT THE FUCK IS HAPPENING.
You're just reading a bunch of words and not processing what the fuck they mean and I'm so fucking clueless to this day as to what the fuck was happening in this book.Not to mention I was bored as fuck.
It has been 10 years since the Third Reich and Imperial Japan won the Second World War. As a young child, Yael was experimented on in Auschwitz and she developed the incredible ability to transform her appearance.
Wolf By Wolf seamlessly moves between the Yael's heartbreaking backstory as a frightened young girl to her exhilarating and dangerous present as she pretends to be Germany's most famous female rider.As the race progressed, I was on edge to discover whether Yael would complete her mission, especially as she began to develop relationships with her fellow riders, and make enemies of some.
I had no real inclination to pick it up and I honestly didn't know what the hell this book was about.
I decided randomly yesterday that I would finally read this book and man I wish I had picked it up sooner!
This book wasn't what I expected - although, to be fair, I didn't know what to expect.
I'm so blown away by this book and I can't wait to read Blood for Blood!
Yael is an amazing main character and I totally fell for Luka throughout this book.
2016 Genre Challenge: Historical Fiction Pretty freaking awesome book! I loved everything about it, the characters, the plot, the action. The idea of this type of story is not original, but this was written in a way I could enjoy it. Being one of Jewish heritage and born in the USSR, I could relate to the story of Yael's life as these stories have been passed on to me during my life.... This was a great book. A very strong recommendation from me.
I loved this book! It was so different and interesting. I loved the characters so much and the plot was so fast paced. I've never read a book like Wolf by Wolf before and I read the whole book in just one sitting.
Original Read: Nov. 6th - Nov. 14th, 2015Re-read: May 28th - June 4th, 2017 I loved this just as much the second time reading it. My original review and thoughts remain the same.*******************************Original Review:4.5 stars"Once upon a time, there was a girl who lived in a kingdom of death. Wolves howled up her arm. A whole pack of them -- made of tattoo ink and pain, memory and loss. It was the only thing about her that ever stayed the same."What if the Axis had won World War 2?It's
An audience with the highly reclusive Adolf Hitler at the Victor's Ball in Tokyo.Yael, a former death camp prisoner, has witnessed too much suffering, and the five wolves tattooed on her arm are a constant reminder of the loved ones she has lost.
"Her bullets and blade were for three things: defense, coercion and the Fuhrer's chest."A survivor of painful human experimentation, Yael has the power to skinshift and must complete her mission by impersonating last years only female racer, Adele Wolfe.
I loved that through it all, Yael never lost who she was in the way that mattered, though she feared that she had lost herself long ago when her ability to skinshift led to her forgetting her true appearance.
Wow...this book is definitely something else! A historical alternative universe, an action packed race to killing totalitarian evil, interesting and layered characters to explore, a great cliffhanger..The author could've used "Scheiße" a bit more grammatically correct, but all in all a fantastic read!
Fast-paced, engaging, and a unique alternate history story. The characters, other than Yael, lacked a bit of substance and the writing was clunky, relying heavily on repetition to a fault (she repeats words, words, words like this, this, this all the time, time, time)—but I enjoyed reading it and it made me want to pick up the sequel.
Grant it, she doesn't really change mass or anything so guys are harder for this small girl to take form, but she can still try.After a series of events, Yael ends up in the hands of The Resistance, a group trying to kill Hitler and crumble his reign, and they have a plan: disguise herself as Adele Wolf, the only female to win the Axis Tour, and kill Hitler at the Victor’s Ball.
Or the history she has with another Axis Tour winner Luka and the complicated relationship Yael forms with him as Adele.
** 4 “I NEED THE SECOND BOOK NOW !!” **I don’t understand why I waited so long to read this, especially because the synopsis had always appealed to me, but I don’t know, I never came around to read it in the end until now !
And what an amazing read this was !!
Loved it !
The story and world-building :   • Basically, I loved the whole concept of the book : writing a story about our world as it could have been  IF Hitler had won WW2.
Just this aspect alone was fascinating and had a way to make it
•	I also really enjoyed the back and forth between the present, meaning the race, and the pastof Yael, what happened to her in the camp that gave her the ability to skinshift and how she lost all the people she loved and cared for leading to her absolute hatred of Hitler and giving more  meaning to her mission  of killing him.
I liked how the author dealt with the issue of identity through Yael’s character and her skinshifting : Yael’s constant fear of losing herself and who she truly is inside behind the faces and identities that she stole and used.
HOLY GOODNESS GRACIOUS I FEEL LIKE I JUST RAN A MARATHON. This book was so amazing!!!!!! I have never read anything like it before. I love alternate histories and this was just phenomenal. The writing, characters, plot, execution, everything was so so so well done. I recommend this book to everyone everywhere GO READ IT!! So excited to see where this story goes from here!! Can't wait to get my hands on the next book when it comes out!!
Original Post:  Wolf by Wolf  at FLYLēF (www.flylef.com)HISTORY IS REVIVED to magnificent effects in this moving and haunting novel. Ryan Graudin’s Wolf by Wolf shines a light on one of the darkest, most terrifying chapters in our past and spins a remarkable tale of an alternate history. The what-if’s set in motion by one courageous girl—Yael Adele— had me racing along, and rooting for her to change history as we know it: Win the Axis Tour. Assassinate Hitler.Or Die Trying.Graudin’s writing is v
The what-if’s set in motion by one courageous girl—Yael Adele— had me racing along, and rooting for her to change history as we know it: Win the Axis Tour.
You are going to change things.” My fondness for Yael grows with every flashback that the author takes me on, and I had this aching need to hug her.
She is an incredible story of fortitude, identity, and destiny.As Yael sets her eyes on winning the Axis Tour, twenty contestants stand in her path.
Personally, I’m really not fond of dirt-bike racing, so I ended up skimming those parts; however, I did gain a greater appreciation for it.
this review was originally posted on twirling pagesi don't know why i waited this long to read Wolf by Wolf.
probably because it's no longer a loud NEW RELEASE and probably because it's not very hyped, but BUT this duology is so so wonderful.the world is the first thing that caught my attention; it could've easily been our actual world.
for one thing, our main character is a shapeshifter??
which brings the question of...who is your real self?
Wolf by Wolf almost had 0 romance – which i was fine with since it was more about the plot and other things – but MAN, Blood for Blood was so slow it physically pains me.
I’m so impressed with how much action is packed into what could have been pages of tedium over the course of this long journey, but the story turned out to be as twisty as the road to Tokyo, full of unexpected surprises and memorable experiences.This book would have been a quick read had real life not gotten so busy lately, and believe you me I had a difficult time putting it down when all I wanted to do was to curl up with it for a few undisturbed hours, learning all of Yael’s secrets.
