https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/885349.Carrie_s_War
Like the four Pevensie children in The Chronicles of Narnia, Carrie and Nick Willow were evacuated from London to the countryside during the German bombing blitz at the beginning of WWII.
But the story is mostly set in a neighboring farm, Druid's Bottom.
There Carrie and Nick will meet Albert Sandwich, Hepzibah Green, and Mr. Johnny, and their lives will be forever changed.There were well over a million people, mostly children and mothers, evacuated during the Blitz in 1940 and 41.
This had to have had a tremendous affect on these people.
I'm surprised there aren't more novels and stories written about their experiences.
This book was a trip down memory lane for me - it was one of my favourites growing up.If Carrie's War does nothing else, it teaches you a few lessons and it makes you happy and thankful for your lot. And if you have siblings, it makes you appreciate them more.Carrie and Nick are children, and the story is told from Carrie's perspective. It was never going to be amazing and insightful in an adult way, but reading it as an adult has helped me better understand it.A great read and a modern classic.
3.5 Stars.
Carrie's War is set during the World War, and contains little details that place it well in that time -- the gas masks, the trains, the rationing -- in a way that's pretty matter-of-fact.
I liked the way it was framed by the adult Carrie and her children -- there's realism in the sense of continuity.It's also very obviously a more modern children's story, since there isn't some big moral front and centre.
I always found magic everywhere like that when I was Carrie and Nick's age.
What a lovely story!
Good, an interesting tale of life in wartime England, interwoven lives, the drama of families

It's interesting how much longer books seem as a child – I guess because your reading is so much slower – but I'm always surprised to go back and find books I remember spending weeks on were only a couple of hundred pages long.I think Carrie's War suffers from that foreshortening; the name itself suggests a story covering years, but it's hard to sink into the world and lives of the characters when you can rattle through them in a few hours.
They run down towards the lights of the old house….Episode 4:Carrie and Nick arrive at Druid’s Bottom and meet the housekeeper Hepzibah Green, who looks after Mr Evans’ sister Mrs Gotobed.
Hepzibah tells them a magical story about the curse of the screaming skull.Episode 5:Carrie and Nick return to the town with the goose and Mr Evans asks about Hepzibah, and about his sister Mrs Gotobed.
Carrie and Nick become regular visitors to Druid’s Bottom, they help Mr Johnny with the milking and Carrie meets old Mrs Gotobed.
Carrie's War is about the war, but it's so much more than that. Ultimately is a story of beloved friends separated, the way they deal with their circumstances and the way they reunite.
Really loved this old children's book which, reading as an adult, has not lost its charm. Short and sweet. Give it a go!

I read this book when I was very young, probably about eight years old.
Then in Year Five in primary school the teacher read it to us.
I was obsessed with this book, renting the audiobook from the library (even though I could read the book no problem) and watching the film nearly every weekend.
In secondary school we had to read it again and the teacher was so impressed about how much I knew about the novel.
We used to have English on a Friday afternoon and my teacher would read the book aloud to us - even putting on half-decent Welsh accents where necessary.
A timeless good read for all ages.
On to Wanda in GA---This has just opened in the West End and you can watch a snippet about it here:http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/wa...Condition: Used - GoodSold by: World of Books Ltd £0.01My cover:There are lovely little drawings at the beginning of each chapter.
Carrie’s War tells the story of Carrie and her brother Nick who are evacuated to Wales from London during the Second World War. Despite Carrie anticipating life in Wales to be extremely boring and dull, she encounters many different characters and becomes involved in numerous adventures during her stay there.Carrie and Nick stay with Mr Evans and his sister Louise, whom they call Auntie Lou. Whilst Lou tries to be a surrogate mother to the two, Mr Evans is not so fatherly and is very strict and stern.
An interesting thought provoking book. I remember reading it a few years ago and not understanding it but now it is clear. The character that stood out the most to me was Albert their was something about his character I found interesting:a very deep character who I would like to know more about.
I've seen some spoilery blurbs in my life but this has to be hands down one of the most spoilery covers.Nevertheless, this book was devastatingly good. And that ending. So sad yet so beautiful in execution.
Boring book
Lovely to re-read a childhood favourite!
My old English teacher, Mrs W, almost murdered this book for me at school. However, years later, I reclaimed it when I read it to my own Y6 class. Loved it.
The main characters, Carrie and Nick Willow, like many children their age were evacuated from London to the countryside where they were considered safe.
Carrie and Nick to me, seemed to be very privileged as The Willow Children came from a household who had a maid and so I feel going to a small house in the country must have been a bit of a culture shock for both Carrie and young Nick who were clearly wealthy enough for slippers!I have no real opinion of Carrie, I liked her sometimes and other times, I found her a bit of a snob.
Whilst Carrie was clearly carrying out her own private war with Mr Evans and the spooky happenings at Druid's Bottom, readers interesting in wartime evacuee stories may be left a little disappointed.
In Wales, they end up living with a bullying, miserly shopkeeper, Mr. Evans, and his weak, oppressed younger sister, whom they are told to call Auntie Lou, eventually adjusting to life in this strained household.Some months after arriving at the Evans home, Carrie and Nick are sent to fetch a Christmas goose at Druid’s Bottom, home of Mr. Evans other sister, Dilys Gotobed.
Arriving at Druid’s Bottom, they discover that Albert Sandwich, a boy they met on the train to Wales, is living there, along with the seemingly magical housekeeper Hepzibah Green and Johnny Gotobed who has cerebral palsy.
The story is Carrie retelling her evacuation story to her children whilst visiting.Through the story you view her evacuation experiences, with the changing nature of her relationship with the brother and sister who take them in, a mix of pity, anger and love as they are forced into a position uncomfortable to all.
You all see the friendship build between Carrie and her brother Nick with fellow evacuee Albert and the lady that takes Albert in (Hepzibar) as well as a brewing romance between Albert and Carrie.
This story provides twists and turns that capture the reader, and it is also made more compelling in the fact that the story shows Carrie going back to Wales in her later life with her own children to re-tell the story.
This story provides an example of what life was like around World War 2 and is recommended for the end of key stage 2 and the start of key stage 3 when trying to get children to imagine what it was like to live in the war.
As the children adjust to the strict rules of Mr Evans house they both fall in love with suppressed Auntie Lou, and whilst Nick hates Mr Evans Carrie begins to feel sorry for him.The day before Christmas Eve they get to visit Druids Bottom, the home of Mrs Gotobed (the Evans' estranged sister), and meet Hepzibah Green, Mister Johny and fellow evacuee Albert Sandwich.
Carrie and Nick enjoy being at Druids Bottom, being spoiled with Hepzibah's stories and food, and they feel they can be more like themselves.A heartwarming story highlighting how children lived during the war, their feelings towards the families they stayed with, and how they believe in stories.
Carrie's War by Nina Bawden is the story of Carrie and her little brother Nick during World War II.
I'd bet you $55 million dollars you could not show me a children's story with characters more real and more human.
The children are placed with an absurdly cheap shopkeeper and his mousy sister for the war's duration, and they are very unhappy there, suffering from the shopkeeper's frugality and the sister's inability to stand up to her brother.
Very complex characters, and that's the great strength of this story.
A book I was put off reading as a child, because I thought it looked scary! I finally summoned up the courage and, although not scary, it was a bit unsettling and sad. The story was gripping and the language put me right there with Carrie and Nick on their adventure. I found the characters very realistic (even the generally unpleasant Mr Evans had some redeeming qualities), and I wanted to read on to the end to find out what would happen to them, but I won't be rushing to read it again! An enjoyable, but slightly uncomfortable read.
First read aged about 11, and still have the old tv tie-in paperback we had in school. Teaching it is definitely not the same as discovering it as an impressionable child. The story of the two evacuees Carrie and Nick sent to a strange Welsh valley and their experience with the odd Gotobed family as well as the evangelical Councillor Evans is still an enjoyable if, in retrospect, an ultimately sad story of love, loss and regret.
Read this when I was a kid and read it again a couple of years ago, because I found a copy in a second-hand shop. I really liked it. The setting in the Welsh valley, I believe, the description of how the kids find the house on the side of the valley, away from the village is so real.
Overall it was an enjoyable read and I think my children would enjoy it. The biggest disappointment was that the kicker at the end was so random and so little of a shock that it didn't do the rest of the writing justice. Worthwhile book and a good read.
