https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76649.Tether_s_End
4 1/2 starsI took Hide My Eyes  on a three-day vacation with me, never having read anything by Allingham before.
I knew that this wasn't a whodunnit (my favorite in the mystery genre) and I wasn't sure what to expect.The story follows for the most part one day in the life of the murderer, whose identity we learn right from the start, and a group of innocent people who are lured one by one into his net, each of them unknowingly playing their part in a game that he devised.Let me tell you something: reading this alone in my hotel room at night, 1.
Poor "little Albert", dragged in kicking (literally) and screaming (or at least complaining loudly) to assist the remarkable newly Superintendent Charlie Luke in the investigation of a number of killings.
He only wanted to go on vacation – and shortly found himself left unsure whether he was more likely to be kidnapped by the bad guys or the good guys.
The plot was handled nicely; since the reader pretty much knows the villain is the villain it's more a matter of suspense – is he going to hurt the old lady or the girl, or the girl's beau?
going to find him?
I liked this one a lot.
When I finished the book, my thoughts immediately were simply, "wow".Margery Allingham has written several mysteries with Albert Campion, the hero private investigator, always able to rise to the occasion and solve each particular crime.
The young vulnerable girl just up from the country and needing a protector on her first real visit to London, the perpetrator of the crimes himself, hiding his cycnicsm and creativity with cover-ups beneath a respectable exterior, the nosy neighbor who is so helpful to police investigation, the good friend who makes promises (against her better judgment), and then calls the police anyway, the naive elderly lady who can't stop believing in the ultimate goodness of mankind."There's some good in that boy or you couldn't love him, dearest," she said.
Definitely one of Allingham's best (of the works that I've read), the action starts as a man pulls up in a bus into a cul-de-sac in London called Goff Place.
It is this thought which sparks an investigation into a most curious series of crimes by Campion and Scotland Yard.
In truth, Campion does not play a very active role as he has in most of Allingham's previous series where he is usually the main character, but it is a chance question that he asks which sets the climax of the story into motion.
Most excellent; highly recommended.Even if you don't follow the Campion series, you won't be lost reading this one, even though it's quite late in the series.
A very good Campion novel with no Amanda or Lugg. One that kept my attention to the end, not because of knowing who was the villain but whether he would be tracked to earth or if he would escape justice. I will not give away the plot.
3-4 stars. Thrilling! Although very different to her earlier books, Allingham still knows how to get you hooked in the first few pages and the suspense is kept up all the way through.
It opens on a rainy night with an old, country bus driving down a London avenue with two elderly, sleeping passengers aboard.
There is also a killer on the bus and he alights to a nearby phone booth.
We learn early in the novel the identity of the killer and we see him in every detail.
The elderly, trusting lady, Polly Tassie, who looks for the best in everyone, the young, beautiful girl, Annabelle, needing guidance and the understanding, helpful solicitor Matthew Phillipson were all wonderful characters and I cared about them.
Allingham's details of London streets, the inhabitants of Garden Green, and the odd little house and museum which are at the centre of the story - are brilliantly evocotive.
When naive and beautiful Annabelle Tassie goes to the house in Garden Green - the reader is instantly worried for her, Annabelle's childhood friend Richard, knows somthing is not quite right about the man he sees coming out of the house and sets out to find out more.
Campion and Inspector Luke are not that far behind in unravelling the various strands of one man's horrible misdeeds.
I found a few copies on the library give-away pile recently, and read The Tiger in the Smoke, which was truly one of the best I've ever read in the series, with much more depth and a much better plot than many of the early Campions.
This one, like Tiger in the Smoke, is written later in Allingham's career and has much more depth and a much more interesting plot and characters than many of the early Campions.
A late entry in the Campion series and it is a dandy; however, Campion barely makes an appearance and has about 8 lines of dialogue.
Regardless, the story, set in the eccentric neighborhood of Garden Green, is an intricate tale of a young man without a conscience who carefully plans crimes for minimal amounts of money and couples those crimes with murder.
He is a mystery to his acquaintances to whom he appears to be many things.....a retired Major, a man about town, a car salesman, etc.
Mix in some additional characters who are involved in his life and you have a fascinating tale for the mystery lover.
The driver alights, makes a phone call, does a good turn for an elderly lady and goes off to carry out a murder.Eight months later, Albert Campion visits Superintendent Charles Luke who has evolved a theory about the criminal which links him to several crimes and to a place in London called Garden Green: there is no evidence to support his hunch.Soon we are introduced to Gerry Chad-Horder whose psychology is explored extensively.He expounds his philosophy to Richard Waterfield who he is trying to involve in one of his elaborate alibis."I never let anything tear the skin.
A beautifully written suspense thriller in the mode of the tiger in the smoke.While this book lacks the fog laden atmosphere of that book, this has a better sketched villain than Jack Havoc.Infact the story unfolds from the point of view of innocent normal people who gets to know Gerry Hawker in the course of a day unware of what he is.
There is no genius personality to solve the mystery, just solid detective work; no neatly assembled character list confined to set locations, just people introduced in dribs and drab across the sprawling city of London; we know the murderer right from the outset, the question is whether he will be caught.
Psychologically minded and sinister in tone, the narrative digs into what drives someone to commit murder, beyond colourful motives and convenient conclusions.
Much of the murderer's history is still shrouded in mystery by the time the book ends with only hints as to what drove him first to kill.
Though it's presented as a mystery, it's really more of a suspense tale.
True, he does some sleuthing, but the interaction of the main characters with the villain is much more fun to watch, especially when the protagonist gets drawn further and further into the bad guy's web of deceit, even as the former begins to realize that something is very wrong.
Which brings us to the second distinction- that this is a tale of suspense.
You really start to wonder if and when the protagonist (or anyone else) is going to stop the villain.
Book 16 of an Albert Campion mystery - Campion doesn't play a major part here but he does take note of some vital clues and is helpful to Inspector Luke.
In the beginning, this was one of those books that I thought was a very odd story.
The story takes place in England in the 1950s in several small villages and in London.
But by the middle of the book, I could see how each incident was related and would eventually converge in a way that could not end well.
There is something about the old British mysteries that takes the reader into another, long gone world.
Then we find Mr. Campion with Inspector Luke, who is convinced that a serial killer exists and has mapped out various areas leading him to believe that the murders somehow center around an area called Garden Green.
The scene then shifts to Annabelle and Richard, a young couple.
She has come to visit a distant relative she calls Aunt Polly, although it was her older sister who was actually invited.
The aunt runs a museum of odds and ends collected by her late husband, and she is very fond of a rather shady young man who she thinks would be improved by matrimony.
Margery Allingham created one of my favorite fictional characters: Albert Campion.
But, I missed Albert Campion as an active participant in this novel.
The book holds up very well without him, and he is so seldom present in the story (and plays so slight a role in the plot resolution) that I am not sure why he was included as a character unless it was for marketing purposes.My advice to readers is not to select this book as part of the Albert Campion series, but to choose it as a well-written work by a master of the classic detective genre.
her best after mourning, i think. Shows her versatility again with a brand-new format: the thriller, for the whodunnit was then still ill-formed and flexible. This is one of the 'it all happens in a densely-packed short tight span of time' type thrillers, like '24 hours' or '13 days'. Very well written. Campion is at best an observer and is absent from most of the action and causative in almost nothing.
Like all of Margery Allingham's books, this one easy fascinating to read. Is it fair to call it an historical mystery if the time frame (1950's) is within my lifetime. It's so entertaining, set in London, so there are some cultural and historical markers. I especially liked the way the plot unfolds, with the different characters gradually coming together into the solution.
Another fine book by Allingham. She is great.A crime novel but not a whodunnit. We follow the bad guy. An all time great bad guy. Walking evil. Heartless. Is there any humanity left in him? Polly and Annabelle are great characters.
I love Margery Allingham. Hide My Eyes is a tale of murder and betrayal. Margery Allingham is up there with the Writers, Agatha Christie, and Dorothy L Sayers. I enjoy her plot, setting and characters.
There is a thread of tension running through this book from beginning to end. It's almost like a modern thriller. Campion is not featured as prominently as usual but that seems to hardly matter. This is one of the best in the series in my opinion.
Even though Campion barely made an appearance in this outing, I found the story very compelling and extremely well-written. The thought of a stone cold serial killer and his one link to humanity was very thought-provoking.
Where's Campion?Not much of Campion's presence in this book. He's an afterthought in this novel. I missed his musings. Not a satisfactory ending.
Good stuff.
I didn't like the pace of the novel. In some places it seemed to drag on too long and in other places it jumped too quickly from scene to scene.
A departure from previous Campion mysteries. He did not add much to the plot at all, actually. This book was more of a thriller and not a murder mystery.Well written and a nice change of pace.
I know I said that The Beckoning Lady was Allingham’s best Campion novel of all, but this one surpasses that.
There is a distinct difference between Allingham’s post- and pre-war Campion.
The point of this tale isn’t figuring out clues in order to solve a mystery; it’s Allingham’s examination of a twisted soul, in a manner reminiscent of Patricia Highsmith’s The Talented Mr. Ripley, which was published three years before this book.
But those are minor points; this is an excellent Campion novel, even if he himself plays a very minor role in it.
All the suspense--what there is of it--comes from wondering if/when this murderer, pitched as a sociopathic charmer, might kill the nice, sweet secondary characters you've just met.
I find charming sociopaths quite boring and disgusting, particularly if/when they might kill nice characters, so I skipped the last 60 or so pages and just read the end.
Probably this was innovative for 1958, but it feels like the emerging section of a forest trail that leads us to terrible James Patterson novels where women get slashed to bits in parks.
This is one of the best of Allingham's Campion books, although Campion himself is not the central character.
The man at the centre of the story is the murderer, and it is not a classical "whodunnit", because we know from the very first page who he is.
Around his story are those of the others whose lives touch his, all believable characters with complex and varied motivations and actions.
Charlie Luke is at his very best here, and I particularly love Richard, the young man with a love interest, who seems to be a standard character in many of Allingham's stories.
