https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25111004-november-9
•	For instance, there’s this entire scene where Ben wants her to wear this really revealing dress and she doesn’t want to but he keeps pressuring her to and finally Fallon is about to have a panic attack and cry and she’s squeezing her eyes shut because Ben is running his hands along her shirt and unbuttoning it (WHICH DEFINITELY MEANS FUCK OFF SHE DOESN’T WANT YOU TOUCHING HER FUCK YOU BEN FUCK YOU) and he finally takes off her shirt and looks her over and it’s so uncomfortable and nonconsensual and totally inappropriate having only met a few hours ago.
Because I’m curious.”•	Every sexual advance after that wasn’t because “you’re beautiful I love you,” it was, “let me take off your clothes so I can see the scars you keep trying to hide.” So disgusting.•	I think the saddest thing is Fallon never stops Ben from doing anything.
::: FULL REVIEW NOW POSTED. SPOILER-FREE :::   “If she’s not careful, I might just fall in love with her. Tonight.”  WOW. WOW. WOW!!!! November 9 blew me away!!! I read it in one sitting with my heart racing the whole time!! The story was SO unique and unexpected that it took me completely by surprise over and over again!! I swooned, I fell in love, my heart was broken, and then healed again. And THE TWIST!!!!! Holy hell, that twist!!! Total shocker but I LOVED it. This book was perfect from cov
To me, that’s a sign of damn good writing!!In the final hour of reading this book, I went from full on freaking out, angst-filled, stomach dropping rage to sitting with the biggest silliest, happiest grin on my face basking in all the warm happy feels.I really found it to be amazing how these two characters could literally spend only a matter of hours together over the years and still have me wholeheartedly believe their love for each other.
“Why would a girl care to find herself when she’ll never be able to make herself feel as good as a guy can?” I've said this before, but I'll say it again: I like Hoover's writing, I like her concepts for novels that differ from the standard format of NA romance books, I really enjoyed Never Never and I also liked Confess. This book, however, reminded me of all the reasons her stories and characters have annoyed me in the past.The relationship between writers and the truth is something I find fa
The book tries to make excuses for itself through the use of Ben being a romance writer.
Which, as the book shows, actually isn't true, and also: get your controlling hands off her mouth, douchebag!So, those are the characters, but there were other things I didn't like.
Like the fact that Ben quotes poetry when he sees her naked and they're about to have sex (eww) and he says this cringy line:
And can we stop saying that the guy over there can't possibly be gay because he forgot to shave today?
"You'll never be able to find yourself if you're lost in someone else."  COLLEEN HOOVER YOU COLD HEARTED SHE DEMON!!! HOW CAN YOU DO THIS TO PEOPLE!?! I must seriously love abuse because I keep coming back for more of it when it comes to your books!  This could be the last book I read all year and I would be perfectly content with it. November 9 is stunning. All us book nerds have one serious thing in common when it comes to reading... We love book quotes! We love to say them, we love to share
Fallon is this character who is struggling to find her footing again in life, and Ben who knows what direction he wants to aim, but needs the arrow guided.
Vague I know, but if you've ever read a CoHo book (if you haven't where the hell have you been?!?) you know the last thing you want is to be spoiled on characters.
I wanted to lay a book worthy kiss on Ben so hard, because that moment is pure perfection.
You know a book is good when you're so jumbled and have so many emotions that it's physically hard to get all of them down.
5 stars! There is nothing quite like a Colleen Hoover book. She is one of those authors that leaves a stamp on her work. Her plots seem to have this special twist, her story lines are always unique and her characters are witty, wonderful and flawed. When I read November 9 I expected greatness. This is a CoHo book. And I wasn't disappointed. November 9 is a day on the calendar. One day out of 365. It’s a day that I’ve never really thought about, but from now on, I don’t think this date will pass
There is nothing quite like a Colleen Hoover book.
When I read November 9 I expected greatness.
November 9 is a day on the calendar.
It’s a day that I’ve never really thought about, but from now on, I don’t think this date will pass without me thinking of Ben, Fallon, and their story.
When I read the blurb for this book, I was intrigued.
It’s one of those you don’t want to know to much about.
November 9 is the perfect mix of humor, twists and turns, love, angst and it has that Colleen Hoover stamp that is unmistakable.
"Give up on NA/YA, Maura!"As others have said, it is hard to write this review without giving anything away so I won't say too much.Too cheesy for me.Too much drama.Too many coincidences.Her books are a hit and miss for me.
Most loved it and those of you still to read it will probably love it too.Hoover's writing is strong but the whole storyline/plot just did not work for me.
Suspension of disbelief often applies to fictional works of the action, comedy, fantasy, and horror genres.
Cognitive estrangement in fiction involves using a person's ignorance or lack of knowledge to promote suspension of disbelief.
Once upon a time, I was a die-hard fan of Colleen Hoover.Things change. She laughs and focuses on my eyes for a beat, but then her focus falls to my mouth and God, I want to kiss her. I want to kiss her so bad it hurts and now I can’t smile because I’m in too much pain. It’s like that all story long.I’m not saying that I have a cold heart and can’t appreciate “romancey” passages. It just doesn’t fulfill my definition of true, honest and realistic love.In other words, this book is extremely chees
Once upon a time, I was a die-hard fan of Colleen Hoover.Things change.
It’s like that all story long.I’m not saying that I have a cold heart and can’t appreciate “romancey” passages.
I’ll make sure you’re following through with your auditions and I can write a book about the days we’re together.”
Not because it’s a Colleen Hoover book, not because of the cover or even the hype.
Because you survived when a lot of people don’t get that lucky.
So from now on when you think about your scars, you aren’t allowed to resent them.
Huge disappointment :(. I love everything CoHo writes, but this one didn't work for me. Let me start from the beginning: I really liked the premise of this book and it was one of my most anticipated reads of the year, I was really excited when it came out and wanted to love it! I've read some really great reviews and my hopes were high! But oh, it didn't meet my expectations. To explain myself, let me give you an actual quote from the book.  "Why would a girl care to find herself when she'll nev
Let me start from the beginning: I really liked the premise of this book and it was one of my most anticipated reads of the year, I was really excited when it came out and wanted to love it!
There are also good things in this book, as I said, there are some funny quotes that really made me laugh and there are also some really nice quotes that I loved...
"I'm never going to meet anyone who makes me feel the way he does.
The truth is I love Colleen Hoover and even if this book disappointed me, I'll still read everything she writes.
I’m amazed at CoHo's ability to deliver a unique story with each and every one of her books.
After I was done with November 9 I spent a good hour or two discussing it with Kara.
There’s so much I want to say about it but really you can only do that with people who have read the book so not to ruin the story for others.One thing that surprised me was when a certain couple made a cameo.
I'm so use to CoHo not following book trends that it was pleasant surprise to see the crossover.
He asked Fallon to date around while she was in New York for a year so she didn't 'miss anything', and he sounded like an inspirational coach half the time while the other half he said some really cheesy shit.
Fallon tells Ben early on that she hates insta-love and when she explains to him what insta-love is and he says that it sounds like what they must have, she quickly dismisses it.
It felt like Hoover used the fact that Ben was an author, and Fallon was a reader to shut down any problems.
Ugh, I hate NA. Basically CoHo books are the only ones I can stand in the sea of clichés that is this genre. But after Confess and this new novel I seriously think I should stay away from New Adult books forever.  And somehow, with the way he’s looking down at me, I even believe I’m beautiful.  @ NA AUTHORS please STOP with the bullshit of the girl with low self-esteem and the guy who's hidding a secret. STOP writing insecure girls who fall for the douchey "you don't know you're beautiful, that'
STOP writing insecure girls who fall for the douchey "you don't know you're beautiful, that's what makes you beautiful" boyfriend.
Not only are Ben and Fallon walking clichés but the plot-twist is something you would find in -you guessed right!- any other book of the genre.
Nice try but it was too obvious, honey.So Ben lied about everything and instead of telling her the truth about the accident first-hand, he made her fall in love with him and wrote a book about their beautiful story blah blah blah.
I know I should be angry that he’s lied to me for so long, but being in his head is somehow justifying his behavior to me.
“When you find love, you take it.
You grab it with both hands and you do everything in your power not to let it go.
You can’t just walk away from it and expect it to linger until you’re ready for it.”  “She’s not the kind of girl you choose your battles for.
She’s the kind of girl you fight to the death for.”  I loved Ben and Fallon!
I loved the book!!
Fallon and Ben had an agreement that they meet up every year on the same day for five years.
Only for a day because Fallon would move in another
“She’s not the kind of girl you choose your battles for.
She’s the kind of girl you fight to the death for.” 
I loved Ben and Fallon!
Fallon and Ben had an agreement that they meet up every year on the same day for five years.
By finishing this book I can say that I have read all Colleen Hoover's books!(view spoiler)[1)Why I gave 4 stars!
So, i didn't like that Ben had a relationship with Jordyn( his dead-brother's wife).
At first, when Ben said that had a brother named Ian, I didn't realize that he was the "Ian" from Ugly love!
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It's Colleen's best, most exciting book to date.Colleen Hoover’s one-of-a-kind style of storytelling shines with November 9—a story about a boy and a girl who fall in love, one day at a time.
For Ben, he begins to fall for a girl who hides behind the cards she’s been dealt, but whose feistiness, verve and beauty, win him over all the same.
Ben and Fallon’s story is irresistible—I couldn’t help but fall in love with them from the very beginning.
I dare you not to fall in love with Ben and Fallon.✦ ✦ ✦ ✦ Follow Vilma's Book Blog:  Website | Facebook |  Twitter
Now that I've had a couple of days to think about this one, I need to lower my rating. Some of the things that Ben said/did weren't okay and shouldn't be shown to be acceptable in books.
2 1/2 to 3 StarsI loved the first 70% of this book. Loved it! Unfortunately, the last 30%, which consists of the plot twist, didn't work for me...at all. I felt the story lost its credibility. That said, I'm in the minority, as most readers seem to really love this book and the twist.
Fallon and Ben were perfect, scarred, and healing together but perfect.
Everyone makes mistakes and sometimes the consequences stay with you your whole life and plague you with guilt, like it did for Ben. But then one day, what you expect to be the worst thing ever turns out to be exactly opposite and your world aligns itself and puts your priorities in order, that's what happened to Ben. Fallon, having gone through a traumatic incident 2 years ago, meets someone outta the blue on one of the worst anniversaries of the year and that changes everything.
"You left with my soul in your fists and my heart in your teeth, and I don’t want either of them back."   Colleen Hoover, what did you just do to my heart? You just turned me into a crying mess! Now I'm in a full on sob fest.I don't think this review of mine can give justice to this amazing novel but let me just tell you that November 9 is simply beautiful! And beautiful does not even begin to describe it. It's BOOK-WORTHY. The kind of book that will hook you, consume you, and OWN you from the
The kind of book that will hook you, consume you, and OWN you from the very beginning up to end.November 9 begins when Fallon O'Neil and Ben Kessler met at a restaurant in Los Angeles on the 9th of November.
Despite having an instant connection with each other, Fallon thought that she's not yet ready to fall in love and commit herself into a relationship, thus she told Ben that she'll start dating him only when she reach the age of 23-- which will be five years after their first meeting.
What especially made me love the book were the main characters.
I got 30 pages from the end and I refuse to finish.
I hated this so much I thought Owen from Confess was the worst male love interest, but Ben has him beat.
He was awful.
And the big plot twist infuriated me to no end.
It was ridiculous and such a cheap shot.
At this point I am questioning whether or not I will continue reading Colleen Hoovers books anymore.
How can someone who wrote my favorite book ever, write my two most hated books?I need to cool off before I write a full review for this...
sometimes people are better at reviewing than me.
shocking, but it happens.) i can't say anything about this book that hasn't been perfectly stated already in Whitney's review.
her review, that is, not this god-awful book.(thanks @may for linking this in your most recent blog post)---------cookies are my favorite food.
i am capable of eating probably dozens of reese's peanut butter cups in a sitting.
rather than just eating dessert after every meal, i often have sweets for dinner.
my teeth are, at this point, 99% made of sugar and thus incapable of being damaged in any way.and still this book gave me a cavity.(& at that moment, emma officially gave up on Colleen Hoover.)
4 ”It’s November 9th or nothing.”STARSI can always count on Colleen Hoover to deliver a story that is impossible to put down.
Both characters are eighteen years of age and young Fallon is on her way to New York to pursue a career on Broadway.
Going back to my tough mutter scenario, things aren't smooth sailing and Colleen Hoover goes for several crushing and WTH moments.As always, I loved the flawless beauty in the writing, as well as the characters connections, and just like Confess, this book didn’t need the drama or reveals for me or readers on a whole, to have slapped a 5-Star Favorite on either book.
The writing is so poetic and addictive that once you start reading the book you can't put it down until you finish it!I start it yesterday and I read it so fast because I wanted to know what was going to happen to Fallon and Ben!
Ben and Fallon are the most adorable and cute couple I have ever read!!They are so sweet, funny and lovable characters that you can't stop yourself from falling in love with them and their story!
Overall it was a beautiful story that you should everybody read it!!Colleen Hoover as always did an amazing job!

I just loved every single word, every good / happy / sad / bad moment in this book.
And right now I'm not capable to write the summary of the book for you so pls forgive me for that and I don't want to give you spoilers etc so you just have to read this book.
I cry like a fucking baby.”“You left with my soul in your fists and my heart in your teeth, and I don’t want either of them back.”“When you find love, you take it.
Every November 9th I’ll wait for you, hoping one day you’ll be able to find enough forgiveness to love me again.
4-4.5 Stars!!Once again Colleen Hoover delivered a unique story that will stay with me for a while. This book like some others I have read from her, it made feel, really FEEL. It made me smile, it made me shed a tear or two and it made me care, really care for these two endearing characters. “November 9” was original from start to finish, it was beautifully written, with a fantastically executed plot and a love story that melt my heart.  “I thought I was stronger than a word, but I just discover
“November 9” was original from start to finish, it was beautifully written, with a fantastically executed plot and a love story that melt my heart.
Both Fallon and Ben were flawed characters, very well portrayed in such a great way.
Fallon was an easy character to like from the start.
At first she was portrayed as a vulnerable young girl, but as the story progressed we get to know a different Fallon – much stronger and more confident and I have to say I loved the ‘new Fallon’.
Ben was a wonderful character and I fell in love with him from the very beginning.
I hated this book!I wanted to rate it one star last night.
How can I rate it one star?
The story is amazing.
CoHo uses and combines words in such a beautiful way as if to create harmony.
Her characters are simply beautiful, inside and out, flaws and all.
She describes them in such an amazing way that even their flaws seem perfect.
If that makes sense at all.Overall rating: 4 starsWriting style: 5 starsStory: 4 starsFlow of the story: 4 starsCharacter development: 5 starsHero: 4 starsHeroine: 4 starsSecondary characters: 4 starsTone/mood of the book: 5 starsEmotion evoking: 5 starsOriginality: 5 starsEnjoyment: 4 starsEffect on me: 4 stars
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Yep. 2 Stars. Barely . . . .  I read the first 100 pages of this book in like 17.2 seconds. That's not to say those pages were perfect. There were plenty of things that can ONLY happen in a romance novel and be okay. Some examples are the Fallon/Ben meet cute was him overhearing a father being a real dickwad to his daughter at lunch, infiltrating said lunch as her “boyfriend” and then spending the rest of the day together. In real life
I read the first 100 pages of this book in like 17.2 seconds.
There were plenty of things that can ONLY happen in a romance novel and be okay.
Some examples are the Fallon/Ben meet cute was him overhearing a father being a real dickwad to his daughter at lunch, infiltrating said lunch as her “boyfriend” and then spending the rest of the day together.
By the end of it all I wasn’t sure if I had read a book or listened to Taylor Swift songs on a loop for several hours.
I decided to start late on Friday night so I could finish it on Saturday morning.
I think that’s why I immediately fell in love with Ben.Ben is a college student and overhears the conversation between Fallon and her dad.
I also love all of the romance/book references and how Fallon gets Ben to read multiple romance novels to help him with their novel.Ben isn’t perfect, but he makes Fallon feel invincible and worthy.
I loved that.This story had me in complete knots and unable to breathe at points.
I loved the reading references and how it added a lightness to the story.
It's live!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 5 stars!  First thing I am going to say is you need to go into this book blind. I'm dead serious. I'm actually a lover of spoilers but this book is the exception. I'm not going to post any spoilers, but I'm giving you a moment right now to really think about your reading experience of this book and urging you to go in blind........Still want to read the review? Don't say I didn't warn ya. So when I saw on Facebook that many people were finding copies of November 9 e
I'm not going to post any spoilers, but I'm giving you a moment right now to really think about your reading experience of this book and urging you to go in blind........Still want to read the review?
On this day Fallon is having lunch with her dad when she meets Ben. The two have an instant connection, but do not call it instalove.
It's why I loved this book, because I cared what happened to them.
I will say that I actually predicted a couple of key plot points (and those of you who read it know which ones) but it didn't take away from my overall enjoyment of the story.
DNF @45% I can't believe I am actaully DNFing CoHo's book..
it breaks my heart.
The answer is I'm just not feeling it.
It's too perfect...
boderline unrealistic to make me pay attention and care about the characters.
The whole plot seems silly to me.
How can someone truly fall in love with other person when they meet for few hours per year and then go on with their lives while basically idealising the other person in their's heads?
Don't you love the image created in your head then?
Maybe the story gets better.
Maybe it's beautiful and romantic.
No rating.
Usual disclaimer:  This is a negative review. If you loved the book, that's great! Sadly, I didn't, so please respect my opinion as I respect yours.A "NOVEMBER 9" POEM:I "cringed" in quotationsI hated it in boldI WANTED TO DNF IT in all capsIt was finally over with an ellipsis...... welcome to November 9. This book will make you want to claw your own eyes out because of the horrible writing, yell at the idiotic characters and look horrified for the rest of your life because of the terrible plot
But such things do not happen in the realm of Cheesy Romance and Cringe-Fest!In fact, Angsty Girl meets Creepy Boy, and since they immediately feel drawn to one another, they decide to spend the whole day together, because the next day Angsty Girl is going to move from LA to New York.
And then there was the whole business of Creepy Boy not being able to finish writing his book if they were to stop meeting only once a year, which actually helped Angsty Girl make up her mind and decide that she (view spoiler)[had to leave him (hide spoiler)].
FULL REVIEW NOW POSTED:   “It took four years for me to finally fall completely in love with him. It only took four pages to stop.”  There’s a very rare feeling I get every time I open a Colleen Hoover book, a cross between trepidation and elation, because I know she is not only going to run my heart over with the plotline itself, but also blow my mind with its uniqueness. And once more, she did just that. In her true fashion, Ms Hoover has given us another terrific page-turner, a multifaceted
A former teen actress whose acting career came to a standstill when she was sixteen years old due to an accident that left her scarred and emotionally broken, Fallon meets aspiring writer Benton on the eve of a cross-country move that is meant to give her back control over her own life, and a chance to follow her dreams once more.
But one smile is all it takes for Benton to pull Fallon from the shadows in which she’s been hiding for the past two years, and only a handful of hours in each other’s company to turn the anniversary of the worst day of her life into a day she will look forward to for years to come.
