https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1327508.A_Little_Maid_of_Old_Philadelphia
when I first read this book as a child I would have given it five stars plus.
I think I read all the Little Maid books in third grade.
I loved them.
The perfect blend of sweetness and danger, family, friendship and hero worship.
They are steeped in sexism but I'm sure that since the child heroines all contribute to the war effort (in this case, saving General Lafayette from capture while encamped at Barren Hill), the author was trying to resist the "timid girl" stereotype.
Still, it's most definitely a girl book and it brought me vividly back to my childhood.
I just finished reading this to my 94-year-old mother. She loved this book as a child. When I was a child we had her copies of this series at home and I loved them as much as she had.This one is quite well written and features a spunky, independent, and quite believable 10-year-old girl. There are some references in the book which date the writing, but these are easily edited while reading aloud to avoid any offense to someone else who might be in ear shot.
A fun adventure story for young girls I'm an adult, but thoroughly enjoyed this fun little story, geared toward girls between 10-12 years old. Being written in 1919 I thought this was easy to read and was a solid plot full of adventure! The ending was rushed and could have had a few more pages added to do it justice, but other than that I think it's a great book!
*I read the Kindle edition*This well written, wonderful book is set in 1778 at a time when Philadelphia was in the hands of General Vowie and the British army. It features an independent 10-year-old girl named Ruth Pennell.I don't want to spoil much, so if you want to read it.. get the paperback or Kindle version!
MCL. It's about a girl named Ruth and one of her aunts comes to stay with her while her mother goes to visit her grandmother.
Fun!Owen really enjoyed this story. I read it to him at bed at night. He likes it because it has America's cause in it.
