https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/332775.Incarceron
How can you rate it without even finishing it?"To that, I have a simple answer: I wasn't impressed.This book, like many fantasy novels I've ignored for the past few years, follows the Hero's Journey like a bible.Of course we have a mystery revolving around the hero's past.
Incarceron follows Claudia, the warden's daughter, and Finn, a prisoner of Incarceron.
As we know, Claudia doesn't want to marry Casper because he's an idiot.
I actually think him, Casper, and Claudia would make interesting love triangle material.We have some other characters who's names I can't remember how to spell.
So he reverted the whole world to a pre-regency era and forced everyone to act out his weird fantasy.Okay, first of all, this worked SO well when China did it a few hundred years ago.
Okay, totally not going to answer that...No, Australia is great.
Really, I do.Okay, so other than these two stupid and ridiculous premises, Incarceron is actually a pretty great book.
I stared open-mouthed at the end of the book muttering, "Well, flippity-doo-dah-day, you got me there, Fisher!"Characters are pretty good.
The two main characters and the big "romance" aren't really that great.
maybe I'm getting harder to please?Having just gone through the Percy Jackson series and found it disappointing and reading a book by Tamora Pierce which I found mostly stultifyingly dull, I was rooting for this one.
I know you don't ask for "reality" in a fantasy story, but there has to be a certain "reality" a form of logic within a book's own reality.
Time and time again Claudia does things that had she really done them, the story would have ended early in some form of disaster for her and/or her tutor.
Maybe you won't see the book this way but I just didn't like it.
Maybe I'm really weird, but I've always thought prisons were kind of...cool.
The POV is switched mainly between Finn and Claudia, but also jumps to the secondary characters like Jared, Keiro, and Attia.
At first, he questions whether or not his two companions actually care about him at all, thinking they're using him only as a means to escape the prison etc.., but over the course of the novel, as the characters grow,he realizes that they really are his friends--they may not be perfect, but they do care about him.
Instead, I was on a wild goose chase to find out the overall point of the story.Other Things I Want to Touch On: 1)I really liked the concept of the self-aware prison that had developed its own ecosystem and many generations of inhabitants.
I would have liked her as a romantic interest for someone, be it Finn, Keiro, or even Jared (since I get the feeling he's not that much older than Claudia.
I do think he cared about Finn, and that was his saving grace in my mind.Overall, I can't really cheer for this book.
I love science, I find it fascinating, but I’m not very good at it… kind of like this reading experience!
I think, though, that the fast-paced action comes at the expense of character and story development.
There’s so much action in this story, but it seems like you learn things in fragments.
:D I really liked the two main characters, Finn and Claudia, and I thought that their respective storylines were pretty interesting.
Incarceron seems like a very psychological novel, and I honestly could have done with more in-depth character exploration.
Incarceron is an awesome plot with great characters, but it could have been better explained and explored.
Abandoned at about page 90.Reasons: general disinterest in the story, the fantasy world and the characters' fates; unappealing writing style; strong suspicions that Finn is the "dead" prince; painful flashbacks of The Maze Runner, Matrix, Robocop and some apocalyptic B-grade movies whose names I can't recall.Lessons learned: science fantasy might not be my cup of tea.


Αυτός ο κόσμος μου άρεσε πολύ. Όλοι οι ήρωες, μαζί και οι δευτερεύοντες, μου φάνηκαν πολύ ενδιαφέροντες και καλοφτιαγμένοι, μου άρεσαν. Αυτό όμως που με ενθουσίασε ήταν ο κόσμος, τον βρήκα πολύ πρωτότυπο και φυσικά πρώτη φορά διάβασα σε ένα βιβλίο να έχουν ενσωματώσει τόσο πολύ, τη steampunk κουλτούρα την οποία λατρεύω. Τέλος, διάβασα πολλές κριτικές που το βρήκαν βαρετό και "μια από τα ίδια" δεν έχω ιδέα γιατί, είχε δράση πάρα πολύ περιπέτεια και μια φοβερή, φυλακή με νοημοσύνη που δεν έχει σκοπό να αφήσει τους φυλακισμένους της να αποδράσουν! Πολύ καλό.
I have a good feeling about rereading this; it'll be even better than the first time.
Although, my first read was pretty awesome: it gave me nightmares and all.
Not the type of nightmare that will have you waking up screaming, or soaking your bed sheets with sweat, but more like an annoying dream.
I dreamed I was in Incarceron and I had to pee really, really bad; but the prison kept shifting and I couldn't find a bathroom.If I dream of Incarceron again, it better have a bathroom close by so I can take care of my peeing business to then explore the setting.
Gaya bahasa Mbak Fisher ini kayaknya sulit, dan itu diperparah dengan segala macam detail yang bikin perhatian saia meleng dari apa yang sebenernya tengah terjadi, dari hal utama yang ingin dia sampaikan.
Nah. Kalau pake teknologi, saia ga bisa ngebayangin kenapa manusia, yang sudah menguasai teknologi anomali spasial untuk mengerutkan sebuah dunia, mau-maunya MEMILIH untuk hidup di dalam era Victorian, dengan protokol-protokol untuk mengekang diri sendiri dan segala macam kepalsuan, dan plot device yang aneh?
Balik ke alasan kenapa manusia yang udah hightech mau-maunya berpura-pura hidup dalam era victorian: penulis ngasi alasan, katanya ada sesuatu yang bikin itu terjadi, hingga akhirnya mereka mengambil pilihan mengorbankan kemajuan untuk perdamaian.
Basically, it's Escape From New York, except with fantasy instead of post-apocalyptic trappings.
I never got a visceral—or even bare-bones visual—sense of what the living/mechanical/whatever prison of Incarceron is supposed to be like.
And, as with far too many YA/fantasy/sci-fi/action/adventure books I've struggled through, it takes itself far, far too seriously—there's not a single joke in the whole 400-page slog.Wait, that's not true: I found it pretty funny that Fisher expected me to believe that the great legendary hero of Incarceron is called Sapphique.
That's not a hero's name, it's a Vegas revue.
"Now playing at the Bellagio—Cirque de Soleil's Sapphique!"
I really like the idea of a sentient prison. The mystery of Claudia and her relationship with her father is something my mind worked on through the entire book. Claudia's tutor was my favorite character.
אבל אלפי שנים דירדרו את האוכלוסיה והכלא , ישות תבונית ולומדת בעצמה, הפך לגיהנום ממנום מבקשים 4 אנשים לברוח: פין הרואה בכוכבים, בעל חזיונות שאין לאו עבר אבל הוא זוכר עולם אחר עם ריחות אחרים.
קלאודיה חייה בעולם בחוץ, עולם שתקוע במאה ה - 17 ובו אסורה טכנולוגיה כי קיימים כללי התקופה הנאכפים ע"י שושלת הבראנה.מהרגע שקלאודיה רואה את פין, היא מאמינה שהוא הנסיך האבוד והיא מנסה להציל אותו בכל דרך.
היא נעזרת בג'רארד הספייאנט האישי שלה כדי לפענח את צפונות המפתח ולנסות לאתר את הדרך להציל את פין.במסע מסתברים גילויים מרעישים על הכלא, על ישותו שהתפתחה עם השנים.
For a long time I've been excited about the premise of this book and ordered it from my library being very excited to read it.
I also felt that we didn't see enough of him, that his asshole "oathbrother" Kiero stole nearly all the light plus the revelation about him hardly registered at all as his character was so dull.
So for me, I felt that hardly anything happened in this book and I had long since lost interest in it and perhaps people who like really slow going mysteries would like this?
Incarceron is a self-sustaining prison experiment that is in a secret location and sealed off from the rest of the world.
The idea is interesting, but I have a hard time accepting the fact that any society would put so much effort into a prison if those sent to it are never meant to be released to normal society again.
What is the purpose of the experiment and why is it necessary for regular citizens to volunteer to enter Incarceron as well?
Both Finn and Claudia happen to be experiencing an incredibly tumultuous time and that does make for powerful reading.
This prison is alive.That pretty much sums up Incarceron's selling point.
At least with "This prison is alive," you have a pretty good idea of what's special about the book and why you'll want to read it.It's a really cool idea and the prison Catherine Fischer builds in her story is worth exploring.It's just too bad the rest of the story isn't as awesome as the premise of a prison that is basically a person.
(Sapphique?) All the novel's surprises are telegraphed in such a way that the reader wonders why Fischer even bothered making them surprises, as if she included them reluctantly, having heard somewhere that stories required twists and turns but all the while thought better of it.

He lives on the Outside and is thrilled that his daughter, Claudia, is about to wed Caspar, heir to the throne.
After years of scheming and social climbing, he will finally have the power that he craves.Claudia, while groomed since birth to be a queen, is not merely her father's puppet.
An investigation was never officially undertaken, but Claudia has always suspected that the new queen, Sia, played a role in Giles' death so that her son, Caspar, could ascend to the throne.Refusing to be pawns in a royal power struggle, both Claudia and Finn are determined to uncover Incarceron's secrets.
Finn from the prison Incarceron, and Claudia from 'Outside' who also happens to be the daughter of the Warden of Incarceron come into contact through a communication device in the shape of a crystal key.
Each are running from something - Finn from the horrors of the prison and Claudia from the horrors of an arranged marriage.
The secondary characters provided a lot more insight into the story that Finn and Claudia - namely Kiero, Jared, and the Warden.
I spent more of the book agonizing over whether or not both Kiero and the Warden were really bad or not!
In particular, I loved the character of Claudia’s father – the cold, immutable, powerful Warden of Incarceron, Lord John Arlex.
Other characters, however, are not so generous, as Keiro is seen as a rogue, out only to use Finn to get him out of Incarceron, no matter the cost.
In any case, Keiro is a character that isn’t easy to peg, and I’m excited to see what happens with him in the next book.With its breathtaking world-building, admirable characters, and exceptional plotting, Incarceron is a dystopian, sci-fi gem.
Bullet Review:If there is one thing I've learned over the years, it's that life is too short to spend on books and things that you aren't enjoying.DNF @ 19%.Some people will love "Incarceron".
And I can understand why - it's a pretty unique concept and (so far) doesn't rely 100% on insta-love, romantic plot triangles, and stupid characters.
I'm not quite sure what the plot is other than "Incarceron and the Queen are evil!
Plus, a book that DOESN'T feature our female viewpoint character immediately getting wet panties over a boy is worth recommending.
I thought the ideas in this book were rich and innovative, and the plot twists near the end were what made me round the rating up to 4 stars instead of rounding down.
(Update: I recently moved my rating down to 3 stars because as time has gone by I stopped caring about reading the sequel!
Also, this author apparently likes to write poetry, which makes sense because there are some parts that are cheesier than my kid's dairy drawer in the fridge.
First couple of pages, "La La La, this seems all right, don't know what the fuss is a- WHAT THE?!" This was a wild and crazy book.
(So very, VERY claustrophobic.) Basically, in a future where even the moon shows the scars from many wars, peace has been made by taking all the unsavory elements and putting them into a giant, sentient prison.
But Incarceron, the prison, was supposed to be a paradise to keep the inmates pacified.
. .I mean, really crazy stuff.
And then at the end, stuff that made me scream, "You mean I have to wait until DECEMBER for book two?!"
Wow! It was VERY imaginative! It took me a little bit to figure out what the heck was going on. But then I got into it. It was a bit long but fun.
Finn muốn trốn thoát, và cùng với người anh em kết nghĩa Keiro, Thầy Thông Thái Gildas và cô bé nắm giữ nhiều bí mật Attia, cậu đã vượt qua muôn trùng khó khăn để có thể thực hiện kế hoạch Trốn thoát của mình.Đối lập với Bên Trong là Bên Ngoài, nơi thời gian không được phép tồn tại, nơi được vận hành bởi máy tính nhưng cuộc sống lại như thời thế kỷ mười bảy, với Nữ Hoàng Sia tàn bạo trị vì - người được cho là đã thực hiện kế hoạch ám sát người con riêng của chồng là Hoàng tử Giles để dọn đường cho con trai mình là Caspar lên ngôi.
The story follows Claudia, the present Warden's daughter, who has been promised to the unfit Crown Prince to be his future bride, on the "Outside" and gang member Finn, who woke up inside the prison at the age of fifteen without a proper memory, on the "Inside".
He claims not to be one of the prison's recycled products, but to be imported from the real world - where he wants to return to.Also lined up are a handful of interesting side-characters including Claudia's tutor Jared, the ice-cold and scheming Warden and the evil Queen on the one side, and Keiro, Finn's oathbrother and two other travel-mates (Gildas and Attia) on the other side.The story kept my attention all of the time.
It's all about Finn, Claudia and of course Incarceron.Finn is a prisoner with no memory, sure he came from Outside though the prison has been sealed for centuries and only one man has ever escaped.
More than anything he wants to know who he is and where he came from, but can he ever be sure?
They meet, bond and are united in their fight for freedom and truth.Incarceron is alive, sees and hears everything and is, like Finn and Claudia, also looking for a way out.Can't wait to read the sequel: "Sapphique".
This book was okay - I kept waiting to get sucked into it but that never happened. While I could imagine the intimidating world of Incarceron, it never really struck me as altogether terrifying or mystifying. There was a lot of action, almost too much at some points. The characters weren't defined strongly enough for me, and I never sympathized with any of them.Overall this book just wasn't for me - I would recommend it to fantasy or science-fiction lovers, however. Not exactly a fan of Catherine Fisher's writing but I am considering checking out the sequel to this one.
