https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1413941.Admiral_of_the_Ocean_Sea

Columbus tried to insist on treating the natives kindly, often keeping his rapacious crews confined on board ship ship when they would rather be off getting gold or sex for trinkets or threats.
A lieutenant made the three-day crossing to Hispaniola by canoe, but the governor there disliked Columbus and it was about a year until rescue came.
Meanwhile, Columbus convinced the natives to provide sustenance by producing a lunar eclipse (with the help of a good almanac) as evidence of the divine will.Columbus was a master mariner and he transformed the world, but it was all a mistake.
Many of Morison's passages are quite moving, others gripping, especially in his telling of how Columbus and his crew contend with the weather on the homeward leg of his first voyage, almost delivering his great discovery to the ocean floor instead of to Spain.
One of the things that Morison focusses on is Columbus's devout Catholic faith and habits, which I found not only critical to truly understanding his motivations and actions and historical importance (the voyages led to probably the greatest expansion of Christianity in history), but also personally inspiring.
This is a great book.
This book is large, but very readable and the author manages to keep things interesting through all four of Columbus’ voyages of discovery.
One of the things we struggle with understanding today is the fact that Columbus (and Magellan, along with many other explorers) had no idea where they were going.
It takes unbelievable courage to plunge headfirst off the edge of the map and most people now simply cannot understand what it took to face this complete uncertainty without hope of rescue while being responsible for the lives of the crew and property of the crown while doing it.This is a terrific book, well researched and full of interesting details.
Knocked my socks off in high school. Recently, I read Isabella: The Warrior Queen, and found she relies heavily on Morison. Am tempted to reread.
This is a fine biography of Columbus and his voyages by the man who, during his lifetime, was the foremost naval historian of the USA. Notably, Morison made a point of personally retracing what can be reconstructed of Columbus' journeys to the Americas.
not good at all. more epistomology of columbian research than a good story. author seems more fascinated by his own researching skills than he does by his subject.
But while the question of whether American cities should have monuments to Columbus remains a matter of debate, his historical importance is not; and the reader who wants to know more about Columbus would do well to turn to this epic biography by a great naval historian.In Admiral of the Ocean Sea -- a book published in 1942, 450 years after Columbus’ first voyage across the Atlantic – Samuel Eliot Morison brought his academic expertise, and his practical knowledge of seafaring life, to the task of recounting Columbus’ story.
Morison & his friend through Harvard school decide to trace Columbus' routes across the ocean in a similar sailing vessel in 1939.
Morison then tells Columbus' tale as they discover everything from sailing, rigging, trade winds, navigations, currents, islands, hurricanes, provisions, etc...
It felt good to read truth about this amazing Admiral, & to separate the real story written in existing documents from the rumors that fly so rampant about Columbus today.
While I plan to read more in the future on Columbus, I feel this book gave me a more accurate view of Christopher Columbus than I could find on the internet today, where opinions don't necessarily equal truth.
Probably the seminal and most detailed account of Columbus's voyages. Morison treats Columbus with perhaps a bit more gentleness than more recent history has done, but the book is nevertheless extraordinarily complete treatment of the journey, including extremely interesting details on the state of the sailing, ship rigging, and navigational arts of the time. It was an extremely useful resource for me in conducting research for my own historical novel about the first Columbus voyage.
This novel has lots of fascinating stories about columbus, and the voyages. I especially enjoyed the story of Cao Nabo and his capture at the hands of alonso de ojeda. Some parts were pretty boring, especially at the beginning.
5 stars for research; 3 stars for enjoyment
Morison is a navigational Harvard historian. He did a lot of his research by recreating Columbus's voyages. Very interesting.
When coupled with the author's scientific re-visitation to nearly every site he set foot, it is mind changing.Along the way though this marvel of ~680 pages and exquisite charts, often nearly as fascinating to me as the adventure was to those explorers over the past 500+ years, we discover that Columbus was a MODERATE for his time and class of discoverer.
Set aside 1-2 weeks in a good chair with "Admiral of the Ocean Sea: A Life of Christopher Columbus" and you will know far more about this species Man than just the discovery of the New World when you finish.
It's almost as if the conquistadors and their Renaissance overlords financed it inspite of themselves.You have to hand it to the man, he navigated on instinct which was just spectacular.I loved the bit about Ovando refusing to let him into the port on the 4th trip, CC warning about a big hurricane brewing, Ovando mocking him then sending out a fleet of, was it 25 ships, just for spite, and all hands immediately going down to Davey Jones' locker as they rode directly into the maws of a big one.
What I really liked was learning more about Christopher Columbus and the four voyages he took to the New World.
At the same time, I was very grateful I listened to the book on CD as there were so many details about sailing and discoveries that I could not assimilate them all.
I have come to appreciate what Columbus contributed to the discovery of the New World.
Columbus' initial motivations were to glorify God. I learned that colonizing a new area of the world where the culture is so remarkably different that your own would be a difficult task.
Briefly, this book is filled with stories of sailors and ‘discovered’ natives, eloquent descriptions of the challenges of navigation in the 1490’s, the miracle of discovery (and, perhaps, equally, of finding one’s way back), tales of the European social and political context within which Columbus’s voyages took place – wealth-seeking, territory-claiming, colonialism; royal and religious rivalries and motivations; greed, intrigue, jealousy.
It is the story of a man of skill, ambition, perseverance - a skilled sailor, extraordinary navigator, able political fighter (although not always a victorious one), a man who devoted a life to building his place in a hierarchy of titles, grants of exploration and ownership.
In Spanish for the benefit of SpaniardsUn clásico que sigue siendo un referente en cuanto a la vida del marino, a pesar de haber sido escrito en la 1ª mitad del siglo pasado.Narración casi novelesca de la vida del gran almirante.
Reacio a admitir posibilidades interpretativas fuera de las oficiales y tradicionales, lo cual deja sin aclarar el por qué de tanto misterio en relación a la nacionalidad de Colón.
La historia se lee con tanta pasión como se intuye que ha sido escrita.
Seguimos, codo con codo, las idas y venidas del héroe.
Y ante los fallos, las debilidades del hombre, nos compadecemos.
Una biografía escrita por un marino admirador del mayor marino de la historia.
There is very little original source documentation regarding Columbus so it might be hard to see how a 650 pg book ( I read the 1 volume condensed edition) can be filled up with anything but speculation.
The book has nice maps and thanks to the internet's access to everything you can follow the story easily.
Also he writes of the Islands as he saw them in 1939 and it leads one to speculate on how they have changed since then.
Morison gives Columbus his due as an immensely skilled navigator and undeniable visionary, while avo
For better and for worse, Christopher Columbus changed the world.
This book went too far, I think, explaining all the nuances of the sailing side (the author actually recreated his multiple sailing voyages, visiting all those islands and coves).
In the end, I came to see that Columbus was a truly great sailor and sadly sloppy leader.
For example, he truly did want to bring civilization to the natives.
But when his men (sneaking off on their own) stirred up trouble by their violence/theft, he decided to back his men in order to preserve the sailing voyage.

Until I read this book, I had no idea the horror and bloodshed brought to the American continent. It was sickening to read what so called christian men could do to other human beings. I nevertheless have a much greater admiration and respect for Christopher Columbus and his listening to that inner voice telling him he was meant to discover "The New Land". He was an incredible man of strength and vision, when around him at times were those with no scope or vista of the nose on their own face.
I've been through the major biographies now, from Washington Irving (1828) to Laurence Bergreen (2011), with stops at Cecil Jane, the admirable Salvador de Madariaga, Rebecca Catz, William Least Heat Moon and others along the way, and while the dust-jacket blurb is right that 'Columbus has become a more controversial figure today than he was when Morison wrote', this Pulitzer-Prize-winning work of 1941 seems to me still the best scholarly treatment in English.
It's long and very academic with regards to navigation, but if there was any document existing that referenced Columbus or his voyages I am sure that Morrison studied it. Then he actually tried to replicate his voyages with modern naval craft in the 1930. The scholarship is amazing. I love learning more about these historical figures, and gaining an understanding of why they made the decisions they did. Fascinating.
The best book of 2011. This one is not a light read. This one is a book you will be glad you ate. The best part is the night they spotted land and the day they made landfall. I went around feeling personally triumphant after I read that. Bravo Columbus! Way to have faith, patience and persistence and skills.
I like that he states on page 18 of the preface that there is not "authentic" biography of Columbus. This book almost reads like fiction in the easy way with which the research falls from the page. It even includes the "egg story" on page 361. I love the maps and diagrams and day-by-day accounts of his voyages. I highly recommend it.
The best history I read was the old-fashioned Admiral of the Ocean Sea, written by the youthful Samuel Eliot Morison, in part based on a Harvard-sponsored expedition that retraced some of Columbus’s journeys. - Saul Levmore
Audio bookPedantically, stultifyingly boring, although filled with interesting detail. The reader's voice is beyond supercilious & makes me want to punch him!Definitely goes on & on!In to the 4th & final voyage.
Ok, I only read the Readers Digest condensed book, but it was good enough that I wish I had gotten the complete book, or at least maybe a "half condensed" instead of a 1/4 book like the RD edition is.
