https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1853145.Sarum
I expected maybe a couple 4 stars and mostly 3 stars, but that is not what I found.
It was so poorly written and the short stories were becoming so boring that I found myself choosing to not pick the book up before going to sleep at night and that is just unheard of for me.
Maybe Rutherfurd should have concentrated more on the quality of his writing and his stories instead of trying to simply write big books.
This was my first Rutherfurd, and definitely my last.For those who are fussy, like me (I admit it) I don't think this book is for you.
Now this is a good Stonehenge book.
This is one of those books that you have to say is 'sweeping in it's scope.' This book starts with neolithic man arriving in the Sarum area and follows certain bloodlines all the way to present day.
The man also knows a ton about how they have cultivated and changed the land throughout time.
The chapter on Stonehenge was great.
I came away thinking 'yeah, that makes sense.' Whats really amazing is how time changes culture throughout this book and yet in each era we are given a completely believable and sympathetic set of characters.
Sarum is one of the most amazing books that I have ever read. It was almost magical reading. It was a book that just stuck with you so much that I actually dreamed about it. It was one of the few books I wished would never end and I felt almost lost once it was finished. It was like coming down off a high.
What had been a book about people who lived through the changing fortunes of their world began to be more of a vehicle for historical presentation that made a sometimes too occasional use of characters as cover.Further, the final third abandoned the previously mentioned delightful recurring device, and the reader feels cheated as it had been set up as a device that one expects to see again and again.
It took me a long time to read this one, it's huge but worth it.
It's a history lesson disguised as fiction, and it's gorgeous.The book follows five families from prehistoric to modern day, jumping through some of the most important moments in the history of Sarum and England.
The last two chapters were the most heart wrenching for me, but there are a lot of moments like that.
Rutherford doesn't try to make it happily ever after, it's real life and believeable.I can't wait to get started on his others, but I'm going to pick a slightly less meaty volume to work on next!
All the way into the 20th century, where things became a bit rushed, covering the passing of time from World War I to 1985 in as many pages as earlier were spent on a single generation in the medieval era.Stylistically, Edward Rutherfurd is a plain and unembellished writer and he often relies on cliches and tropes, particularly all the women with their "firm young bodies" from paleolithic times onward, and the aforementioned repetition of family traits, from the Wilsons' "long-toed feet," dating back to the Ice Age, to the precise fussiness of the Porters, dating back to their Roman ancestor.
Finally, there is Rutherfurd’s authorial style, which is preachy and intrusive, especially in the early chapters, where he feels the need to step into his fictional world and explain in sometimes lengthy paragraphs the science or geography behind what a character was doing, as if to assure the readers that he’d done his research before popping back behind the curtain again.
Why not just tell the thread of the story from that earlier point, or have the characters refer to the slow changes that came before?
Historical fiction works, and works well, when it can be lingered over, savored; when it can be read, then re-read, as the author's glowing accounts of historical events come to life right off the page.
Set in the author's hometown of Salisbury, England, this is a novel that tells the rich history of the valley where five rivers meet.
Over and over, Rutherfurd tells a rich, compelling, absorbing account of the history of the Avon Valley--the history of England.
SARUM: THE NOVEL OF ENGLAND does what historical fiction is supposed to do: entertain and enlighten.

Sarum is my all time favorite book, coming from the south west of England myself it is my history and so much research has gone into it. Many if not all of the great structures are still standing. A great read
Starting at the end of the last Ice Age, Sarum follows the generational paths of five families through time to the modern day.
The highlights of the book are the grisly Stonehenge chapter (nearly a novella in itself), the building of the Salisbury Cathedral and the horrible chapter on the Black Death, followed by the Revolution and the Cavaliers in the Civil War. Of the five families, two are the main focus of the book: the horrible decedents of Tep, the river man who has always been there since before the Ice Age ended, and the Shockleys, decedents of a Saxon Thane whose fortunes rise and fall with England's.
Nobody does English history epics like Edward Rutherfurd!Sarum is his first novel taking several English families from hunter/gatherers to 1985.
Through the BC era to the Middle Ages it is a bit slow and each chapter time period is a like a series of novellas but it does all come together with some interesting chapters in the Tudor/Stuart and Napoleonic Wars eras.
Intersecting the families through the ages is what a Rutherfurd novel is known for and he definitely must have learnt some lessons in writing this the family connections becoming more cohesive and streamlined in his future books.
Kindle copy received as gift Christmas, 2017, from Trent and Tim
If the pace of the first 3/4 of the book had continued, I think the book would have been a couple of hundred pages longer.I'm glad I read it and would definitely recommend it if, like me, you like to know where things have come from, but never took to studying history - and you have some time on your hands...
Through an amazing 4,000 years span, we follow the days and lives of five families - the Wilsons/Forests, the Porters (Porteus), the Masons, the Shockleys, and the Godfreys - as they intersect, sometimes for the best and other times for the worst, and very often times ironically without their even knowing it, while the quiet city of Salisbury runs its course through time.
At the end of the book, though no one could claim having become an expert in the history of the locale, one cannot help but feel that they know it a little more or a little better than they had.
Starting in pre-historic times right through to modern day, this book reads as a series of novellas, but still focusing on the same 5 families through the generations.It took me two months to read this, not just because it is so HUGE but also because the style made it difficult to engage.
Once a chapter was done, the next chapter would jump forward in time with little continuity so that is why it felt like a set of novellas and made it difficult to keep reading rather than being distracted with other books!This wasn't my favourite of his, but I'm glad to have read it and would recommend it to any history buffs.
Well, I think finishing this mammoth 1350 page tome in just 9 days testifies as to how amazing it is!This is an incredibly informative yet entertaining book which concerns itself with the history of the Sarum (Salisbury) area of England, from prehistoric times to the nineteen eighties.
Each of these characters are succeeding generations to those who feature within the first few pages, and the author consistently uses the genetic characteristics of each generation in order to describe where they fit in.
The author went into more detail with regard to events, description of landscape, and building up the characters; I actually 'gelled' with those early people much more than I did with the later heirs/heiresses.
I love historical fiction, and for the avid historical fiction reader (especially British history, or European history in general), Edward Rutherfurd is the guy for you.Cons: Like I said, after about 400 pages, I started to lose interest fast.
It seemed SUPER boring to me, and I could only read about 10 pages at a time before I practically tossed the book aside to reach for another one.Judgement: If you have a LOT of spare time, and love historical fiction, then I totally recommend this book.
I would recommend his shorter novel, "Princes of Ireland", or maybe just another author with shorter books.
A really marvellous read -this one follows the format that the author uses in all his work so far, he tells the story using ordinary folk who go through the momentous times in history.In Sarum , we go back further into the past than ever before with Rutherford.
we go right back to the end of the last ice Age and meet the people who get cut off from continental Europe by the rising sea levels.We also watch as the first farmers arrive and make contact with the hunter gatherers already here.
This book was suggested to me after I reviewed Ken Follett's Pillars of the Earth and World Without End, both of which are set in the fictional (I think) English town of Kingsbridge.
Like the Follett books, Sarum is also set in an English cathedral town, Salisbury, but that's where the similarities end.Sarum sweeps across the history of England, from the island's physical break from the continent through WWII.
Five main families are followed throughout the novel, and as names and circumstances change incrementally, some physical and personality traits carry across thousands of years.
I could see using certain pieces of the book as a supplement to a World History class.
To call this 900+ tome a saga is selling it short because this ambition undertaking by Rutherford encompasses the history -- from the last iceage, Michener-esque style -- right up to the 1980s of present day Salisbury, England.
Generations of the same handful of fictional families are traced and through them, Rutherford gives what is perhaps the most comprehensive history of this area that includes ancient Stonehenge.
And don't expect a family-saga just because the same families are traced through the years....frequently family lines disappear, only to reappear multiple generations later.
Take your time, read it slowly and enjoy.
Not a great book, maybe not even "good." But I found it an interesting way to absorb the history of England.
Unfortunately it assumes you already know the significance of 1066 and a few other important events in English history.
It's told as personal stories, following the fictitious families of different classes of people, their rise and fall from prosperity and society.
Religion and class (wealth) play a huge roll, bigger than I appreciated before, and this is to the book's credit.
I will probably read other books by Rutherfurd, even if somewhat grudgingly so.
This gem was picked up in an airport just before a very long flight.
It's epic - eons of time and generations of characters and yet it is a flowing story, rich, satisfying, and full of historical detail.
I became a Rutherfurd fan on that flight and the heavy book made the return trip to sit happily on our bookshelf.
Discover the story of England from prehistoric times to the present as centered on the area where Salisbury Cathedral now stands.
If you love characters, passion, history, and a good read, then try Sarum.
Nadia May is a marvelous reader-aloud; I'd like her tucked inside my head from here one out reading everything for me; I'm definitely finding out audio books narrated by her.
The subtitle is "the story of England;" perhaps another subtitle could be added: "including murders, attempted rapes, pedophilia, adulterous affairs, theft, burning, hanging, and at least one case of witchcraft, with various other human depravity thrown in for good measure." But admit it - it's those exact incidents that usually make a book delicious.
Towards the end, I did get a bit bored - to be perfectly honest, witchcraft and Cavaliers and even cathedral building are more interesting than changing farm practices.
I spent a fair amount of time in and around Salisbury in the early 1980's, one of my favorite areas in Britain.
While I was (and continue to be) fascinated by Stonehenge, I particularly recall being totally transfixed by Salisbury Cathedral the first time I visited as an American tourist.
I vividly remember not wanting to put it down, and read nearly non-stop until I reached the end.Rutherfurd was brilliant at bringing the history of the area, and particularly the cathedral's history, to life.
I was transported through history and felt as though I had witnessed the construction of Stonehenge, and then much later, the actual building of Salisbury's magnificent cathedral.
I enjoyed the novel well enough, but I was expecting something of the caliber of James Michener, and this certainly didn't deliver.
The writing is wordy and overly passive.
The character are rather flat.
And his research fell short in developing his ancient culture of England.
He uses corn as one of the first crops farmed on English soil, and even has it as such an intricate part of their culture that there is a corn festival and princes.
Michener would never have made such an egregious error.
Michener also gets you, the reader, more into his characters.
This is undoubtedly one of the best English historical novels I have ever read.Rutherford covers the history of the Sarum/Salisbury area of England from the Ice Age to the Present Day through the eyes of five families. He moves from generation to generation with effortless skill , capturing the mood and colour of each period brilliantly. As fortunes change and new challenges are dealt with ,we share the lives of many remarkable men and women .All of this is woven into a rich tapestry which is a must for anyone who likes historical novels
This is my favorite author. This is the first book that I read from this author. I love this genre. I found it fascinating how Rutherford takes really believable characters and reinvents them in every chapter. I love how the characteristics of each family are passed down through the generations. I also love how the stories tell the tales of how history changes an area throughout the centuries. This is a must read book!
I did it, finished this book before the weekend ended today. I love this author, previously having read London and Paris. I enjoyed the New Sarum section better with the family stories reflecting back. I particularly enjoyed the story of Jane Shockley and how she fell in love. This fiction just makes you want to read more non-fiction on the History of England. In fact, Rutherfurd credits Dr. John Chandler who wrote Endless Streets for opening the doors on the history of Salisbury.
It made me wish that America had the same sort of history for me to feel connected to - too bad the Native Americans had no written language to record our country's early history and then they all mysteriously died out, just like the noble buffalo.Some things I read about in it I had to look up just to learn more about them because they were so interesting.
I didn't feel too bad about it though, because the people in the book (like most of us in real life) had also lost track of their own history and generally didn't know anything about their family farther back than their grandfather.
