https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557106.The_Mystery_of_the_Stuttering_Parrot
This, not Nancy Drew, was my favorite mystery series when I was a kid.
Was she just killing time solving mysteries until Ned graduated from college and married her?
Now, the Three Investigators, they were kids like me, without a car, without much money, and with very human failings.
But I am skeptical that the introductions were actually written by Alfred Hitchcock himself.The Investigators solved mystery puzzles kind of like Scooby-Doo but without the lame endings: something supernatural seems to be going on, and the boys uncover the real, human agents behind the phenomena.
Except for this one, no supernatural here.
I recently finished reading The Mystery of The Stuttering Parrot by: Robert Arthur.
My dad introduced me to this fast paced mystery book series that he loved when he was a kid.
As soon as I opened this book I was immedatly hooked.
This book is about three young dectives who promise to find a famous actors missing parrot.
I can relate to the charactors in the book because they always help people when they need it and I feel like I do the same.
This fast pace book is a pleaser to any audience.
Jedna z najkrajsich z detstva, ktoru si rada precitam aj dnes.Zamotany pribeh o papagajoch, z ktorych kazdy vie rozpravat zdanlivo uplne nezmyselne veci z klasikov vedie k neuveritelnemu pripadu, kde mame tajomne poklady, zahranicnych zlocincov a znamu trojicu patracov, ktori aj teraz vsetkemu pridu na koren.Carovne namixovany detektivny pribeh pre mladych citatelov je mozno dnes uz trosku staromodny, ale napriek tomu ma nezamenitelne caro.A pre zasvatenych - "to je iste ako olovena rura" :-)
Three Investigators is my favourite childhood series.
Not one of the favourites, is is THE favourite series.
What can I say, the audio version was 10 times better than the printed version.
I could hear each character speaking in a different voice and I could FEEL the story more than ever.
The moment I heard the voices I realized that these are the voices of Jupiter, Pete and Bob ( Bob is almost missing in this story btw)!!!
Sadly, only two books are available as audio books.
But if you are a fan of the Three Investigators, you must give it a try in YouTube.
Toto bolo strašne super :D! Ako tak pozerám... opäť ma zrejme začína chytať mánia Troch pátračov. Kedysi som na tom riadne fičala, nuž uvidíme ako ďalej O:).
That is the question." said the stuttering parrot.
But can a parrot stutter?This is the best of the Three Investigators, according to me.
The trail to a treasure, hidden in the cryptic sentences taught to seven parrots.
Jupiter outdoes himself.I still remember some of them:"Little Bo Peep has lost her sheep and don't know where to find them.
That is the question.""You know my methods, Watson.
Three sevens lead to thirteen."And the last one:"Never give a sucker an even break, and that is a lead pipe cinch!"
This is a book I found in a carton in the dorms, in a place where old things are usually left for any one who would like to take.
It looked familiar and when I looked at it I realized it was part of the 'Alfred Hitchcock' series which I used to read in elemetary school.
The reading was fun and smooth, the only thing that bothered me was the dozens of typos in the book, but I was highly amused by the number of the psychometry words which were there (a test I had to take a year ago).I finished it in two hours.
Had fun.6.3.07
I did not read this edition.
I read the silver covered 1973 edition.
I know that Hardy Boys were edited after the 1950's quite a bit, I am not sure if the same is true for this series.These books just hit me when I was a kid.
Three boys, a junkyard full of, well, junk that any boy can do anything with.Alfred Hitchcock, mysteries, spooky houses, it's all there!I much prefer the older editions.
Nostalgia I guess, but the pages themselves (for a book lover) are perfect.
This had a great mystery and riddle to it.
I read serious books.
Ich fand das Buch gut und konnte mich, ganz ehrlich, nicht daran erinnern, es letzten Februar bereits gelesen zu haben - das spricht allerdings irgendwie wiederum gegen das Buch.
So richtig spannend fand ich den Fall nicht, aber das liegt natürlich auch daran, dass ich das Hörspiel inn und auswendig kenne.
Ich war ein wenig überrascht, wie Hugenay beschrieben wird.
Das ist doch Meilen entfernt vom Gentlemen Meisterdieb, wie Marx ihn zB beschreibt.
Das ist einfach nur ein fieser französischer Kunsträuber.
Insgesamt ein schönes Buch mit hohem Nostalgiefaktor, aber die Darstellung der Mexikaner und das langsame Tempo ziehen es ein wenig hinunter.
This was loads of fun. The riddle of the parrots and the real threat and stakes of the book made this a lead pipe cinch!I probably knew this before but had forgotten how delightful the old hardcover art is. While some details could be more accurate (like the parrot should have been yellow-headed not red) there are so many of them tucked away that I can look past that. Also the nice Hitch cameos on each cover are an excellent touch. I’ll keep an eye out for how long that is maintained.
Éste libro ya lo leí cuando era adolescente y a pesar del paso de los años sigue haciendo que me meta en la historia y viva la aventura igual que la viven estos jóvenes investigadores."Misterio del loro tartamudo" de Robert Arthur
I enjoyed the interplay and the deductions and the willingness of Arthur to look at the less-well-off, but the treasure was found a little easily for my liking and where, exactly, does Carlos go after this book?
“It looks like a house full of locked rooms that shouldn’t be opened.” With this taking up so much space, Bob doesn’t actually appear until a quarter of the way through and misses the ending altogether, which is a shame (especially since it’s revealed that The Ghost-to-Ghost hook-up was his initial idea).
Sebelum saya mengenal Sir Arthur Conan Doyles dengan Sherlock Holmes-nya,..saya lebih dahulu mengenal sosok tiga detektif cilik karya Alfred Hitchock ini. Buku yang dalam bahasa Indonesianya klo gak salah 'Misteri kakaktua gagap' inilah yang memperkenalkan saya dengan sosok Sherlock Holmes (for God's sake bukan Detektip konan yang nonsense itu). Klo gak salah ada adegan dimana sang kakaktua mengucapkan kata 'to to to be or not to to to be,..that's the question'. to to to be adalah kode untuk alamat Baker Street 222B, yeah,..familiar dengan alamat itu?
This is a re-read - thought I would read it again after I listened to an audio dramatization last week.The book holds up great (I grew up on the Three Investigators) but it is what it is...juvenile 1960's detective story written for teen boys about three friends that hook up with Alfred Hitchcock, have a Rolls Royce on hand, have a great clubhouse in Jupiter Jones's junkyard and run a detective agency. Not realistic in the least but it's not supposed to, it's supposed to be escapist for teen boys.
I didn't like this one quite as much as the first volume. Still a big fan of the series. This one seemed a little more formulaic, but I think that's typical for these type of YA mysteries. This one has parrots, art thieves, and of course Alfred Hitchcock. Still a good read for any fan of the Three Investigators.
Beruntung saya tetap nekat membaca lembar demi lembar buku ini karena ternyata isinya sangat membuat ketagihan.Secara teknis: buku ini tidak diperuntukan bagi anak yang masih dalam tahap belajar membaca karena font yang digunakan tidak besar (standard).
Dari awal cerita, saya sudah merasa pasti rasanya mirip dengan Conan atau Kindaichi yang njelimet.
Tapi baca TD ini saya malah mikir dengan sukarela: pasti kegagapan si nuri itu petunjuk untuk menemukan sesuatu, pasti ada lebih dari satu nuri yang terlibat, pasti ucapan para nuri itu teka-teki, dan sebagainya.
Dan senangnya ternyata ada tebakan saya yang benar hehehe...Yang pasti: saya merasa sangat senang saat membacanya <3
I loved the Three Investigtors books as a kid and, inspired by Karl Ove Knausgaard's "Boyhood Island", I'm going to re-read it to see what, if any, childhood memories it unlocks.Well, that was unsuccessful as a memory-evoking experiment but I'm glad I reread it nevertheless.
A fun little book with nothing particularly objectionable in it.
I'm sure that some today wouldn't be happy about the almost complete lack of female characters, at least any that are in any way necessary to the plot.
I certainly would have no qualms about letting children today read it.
This is one of my all-time-favourites - in the radio play version of my childhood. This is my first time reading it. The story unfolds around a stolen parrot and quickly turns into one of the typical riddles that the ??? have to solve. The radio play is very close to the book - I knew a lot of the scenes and sentences by heart. But some scenes were a bit more detailed and the characters of Carlos and his father were given more room which I liked.
This was one of my favourite books as a child. A refreshing mystery.
two two two be or not two two to be that is the questionFamous wisdom :P
We follow the boys as they hotfoot it around the Rocky Beach and Hollywood areas, piecing the clues together and trying to locate the missing birds, while also staying one step ahead of the crooks who include the famous art-thief (and re-appearing character in the series) Hugenay.
It is in this book that the characters of Bob and Pete really step out of Jupiter’s admittedly large shadow, and we get a head-scratcher of a riddle which requires a lot of investigation and research to solve, as well as some instinct in the face of danger.
The second in The Three Investigators series, this is every bit as good as the first. After their stunning success as investigators in their first case, Hitchcock unbends enough to send them on another. Finding a lost parrot doesn't seem very exciting, but the number of lost parrots grows by leaps and bounds, and the three investigators find themselves caught up once more in a mesh of intrigue, tantalizing clues, villains of every hue and even a lost treasure. Jupe's ability to make sense of seemingly senseless clues shines out once again. A really good read.
Excuse me my bad English :)Well, now I know why I remember it most from the childhood from the adventures of Jupiter, Pete and Bob - it's certainly the best part of Three Investigators stories!Very interesting story, original, captivating adventure for lovers of literature, such a Sherlock Holmes and Treasure Island.
There is - as usual - a lot of humor, and we can smile under our nose on the way of speaking of Jupiter or comments of Pete.Besides, it is practically one big treasure hunt - how can you not like a treasure hunt?
Druhý príbeh zo série o troch pátračoch je pre mňa lepší ako prvý diel, má viac napätia i akcie a i keď som ho už čítala, predsa len niektoré veci som si nepamätala a tak som pozorne som sledovala dej.V centre diania sú traja chlapci, Jupiter, Peter a Bob, hľadajúci stratených papagájov z čoho sa vykľuje vlastne pátranie po stratenom obraze. Dej má dobrý spád, udalosti sa odvíjajú plynule držiac tempo udalostí a čitateľov pevne v hrsti až do poslednej strany.
My first reading experiences! And the first book of The Three Investigators series i read. Then I get addicted. Go figure! Each central character of the group has his own unique ability, job and duty, and rich characterization. Just love it.
I remember the line from Hamlet said (said?) by the parrot, "to to be or not to to be" which shows location 22B. This book amazing! I read this book when I was a kid and now I keep thinking that it's amazing coz it's indeed a good book to read.
Το ξετρύπωσα σε μια παλιά οικογενειακή βιβλιοθήκη. Θυμάμαι ότι μικρός το είχα λατρέψει. Σαν ενήλικας, μου φάνηκε αρκετά πιο αδιάφορο. Μάλλον 3 με 3,5 να αξίζει πραγματικά, αλλά λόγω... προϊστορίας θα πάρει το 4ρι του!
Kisah paling keren dari semua seri Trio Detektif....Ke tujuh nuri yang saling berhubungan..yang sengaja di ajarkan untuk menyembunyikan suatu misteri..temukan ke tujuh nuri & kalian akan menemukan jawabannya....
(Hörspiel)
For me the best part of the book was certainly when the parrots were saying their quotes. Haha I really like the connections between everything. Maybe its predictable but .. :D
For me the best part of the book was certainly when the parrots were saying their quotes. Haha I really like the connections between everything. Maybe it´s predictable but .. :D
