https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16697.The_Mysteries_of_Pittsburgh
Like most stellar first novels, this one has that autobiographic vibe that perhaps the writer's future novels will only bravely hint at.
The protagonist is gay, bi, experimenting.
There are overly-masculine (gay) symbols throughout which obviously take no great psychoanalyst to pry open: mysterious men in motorbikes, gangsters, gaming, the faraway suburbs seeming faraway dreams that'll never be.
The world so fully inhabited by BRET EASTON ELLIS is likewise the playing field in "The Mysteries of Pittsburgh," though in this case the end of college (and not high school, or during college, like in Ellis) is marked by booze, drugs, sex...
Appalling.) Or, to be honest, imagining myself as the lead character in the movie of the book.
Or, to be even more honest, imagining myself as the lead character in the real-life version of the book.
(I'm fairly certain I could have figured this out even if I had read an essay to that effect once.) Chabon makes it clear, I think, exactly how aware he is of all this, with passages about "the will to bigness," and the narrator's closing admission about his tendency to exaggerate.
Like, for example, how one of the main characters is a girl named "Phlox." Really?
On the one hand I really enjoyed reading the book and found myself invested in the characters and absorbed by the story, but on the other hand there were plenty of times where I was really turned off by it and thought "This is total bullshit.
Why is this here?"Ugh. I hate how I hated Arthur's indecisiveness and now I can't even decide how I feel about this book.
seems very little like the book I just read.
Michael Chabon can write one hell of a novel. This one is his first but has so much poise and wisdom. And it has the added bonus of being immensely readable and not bogged down with super obscure words like some of his work. I gobbled it up.
The main character here was a whiny, douchebaggy, lying, pseudo-witty, insecure, recent college grad trying to "find himself." I just wanted to constantly slap him, not to hear his semi-clever little jokes and his oh-so-tedious struggle with "deciding" if he was gay or not gay.
It's books like these where they teeter between contrived details to create believability and "quality" writing (yes, he's not incompetent as a writer) where I become most disgusted by realism, feeling the author is just attempting to trick the reader into believing his story.This book's premise seems dated (it literally is, being set in the 80s) and besides the point.
I've read this book three times.
I love that this book takes place over one summer, just like Gatsby, which is its obvious inspiration.
I love how 1980's the book felt.
Mysteries of Pittsburgh almost feels like a period piece reading it now, and I mean that in the BEST possible way.
I love the Pittsburgh references and Chabon's obvious attachment to that city, as my husband is from Pittsburgh and we love to visit once a year.
But my love of this book makes my thoughts all jumbled and it's the only way I could get it down....
When I came across the following lines I had to stop reading, flabbergasted by what must be the best paragraph I read in years:"Before she committed suicide, when he was seventeen, Cleveland Arning's mother, a laughing woman, taught her son to joke and to ridicule.
Cleveland senior was a psychiatrist."A complete novel in a few lines only.The story itself is moving, complicated as a result of the ambiguity of Art's feelings about his life and the world of his father as well as about his sexual orientation.
I was visiting a girlfriend who was living there, and shortly after my arrival I was unceremoniously dumped.Browsing the street of the unfamiliar town I was supposed to spend the next 3 days in, I stumbled upon this book.
I imagined myself sitting and reading for days at a bench on the Monongahela, forlornly pondering life's intricacies.
It somehow seemed more cathartic.Anyway, I finally read this book, and sorta wish I'd read it back then.
It truly captures that agonizing/exhilarating/mysterious time of post-college youth when you're trying to decipher love and life and your place in the future.(The bender was fun, though.)
A contemporary novel about a young man who graduates from college and spends a summer wandering about Pittsburgh.
The flow of the story felt like a summer exploration, with Art meeting new people and engaging in ephemeral relationships that end up affecting him forever.
The book showcases his journey to find himself, but I found Art's purposelessness a bit confounding, especially when it came to his relationships with Phlox (his female lover), Arthur, and Cleveland.
His lack of conviction made me question the depth of his connections, and as a result I felt less of an emotional pull when each of his relationships came to a crisis point.Overall, recommended to those searching for a well-written, somewhat directionless read about a young man's self-discovery after college.
At night I lay in bed and coolly informed myself that I was gay and that I had better get used to it.”“It was as though she had studied American notions of beauty from some great distance and had come all the way only to find she had overdone the details: a debutante from another planet.”“… listened for accents of friendship: the banality, relaxation, and lack of style that characterize a conversation between two friends.”“‘Let’s drink something cool and refeshing,’ Phlox said, bobbing her head, widening and then narrowing her eyes like some lustful and wily biblical queen.
‘Can I smoke?’ ‘May I,’ said the bus driver.
As this novel opens, two contradictory worlds quickly coalesce around Arthur Bechstein, freshly minted college graduate.
Lecomte introduces Bechstein to a world where people affect fluid identities and go by dadaist nicknames like MauMau (Phlox), Momo (Mohammad), and Riri (that might actually have been her real name).
How does Bechstein resolve his attraction for Phlox and Lecomte?
The book is narrated in the first person voice of Art Bechstein.
The first-person voice seemed too conducive to self-indulgence on the part of the author.Chabon is a talented writer, and his observations about inebriation are some of the most memorable lines in the book.
And isn't Chabon's trump-card the fact that the reader WANTS to read about the utilitarian monuments which house his characters?
WONDER BOYS would be the book I'd give to someone from another country who might want an idea of what it LOOKS like to live here.There is a Michael Chabon masterpiece which more people should seek.
I haven't checked it out in three years.) [Note added Feb. 6th, 2008: An article which I think is the same one I'm thinking of appeared in THE NEW YORK TIMES on September 26th, 1993 and is called PRAGUE: LOST ERA'S LAST SURVIVOR.
Oh my. I could read this again and again. I've been saying this tons of times, but I'm certain that the reading experience will always change, will always morph into something else. Every sentence breathes. It's so beautifully written, and many times I find myself pausing just to savor the beauty of it. Here are some quotes that I like: “I saw that I'd been mistaken when I thought of myself as a Wall, because a wall stands between, and holds apart, two places, two worlds, whereas, if anything, I
Until, one day, he stumbles upon a person who eventually leads him to meeting more and more people, like a chain; people who will inevitably make a massive impact on his life, forcing him to make decisions he never would have bothered himself with before, forcing him to accept everything that comes with such choices, even if it meant heartache and a whole lot of sadness.
Sounds like your typical coming-of-age story, doesn't it?
Sometimes he acts all strong and mighty, sometimes he’s weeping like a kid.
Chabon plays it like a coward, and Art sounds like a boring crybaby who we end up not liking that much because, well, he can't write fo shit.Not that the characters were really that good, either.
Art basically said that Phlox was fake, with her lack of humor and her pretend mannerisms and her constant attempts to change the way she presented herself to the world.
What he neglected to tell us was that everyone else in the book was fake in their own special ways, too.
I was interested in Art's life, which is good.
This is what I call the "It was summer and we were young" school of youthful indiscretion and confused attempts at living the Full Life.
The story is filled to the max with sexual confusion, societal yearning and emotional tug of war between what the protagonist calls his beautiful god-like people -- all put together in a sleepy, yellow-warm and lyrical package.
I didn't need to like the people, or the events to understand the whys behind all the emotion and hows and things.The writing is smooth, clear and very pretty.
What a stupid book. The writing is uncreative and dull, the plot is close to non-existent, and sweet jesus do I ever hate these characters. All that, and an unsettling number (well, three) of sudden and sloppy accounts of buttsex. I will give credit to the early scene of the party at the Iranian woman's home and the final few paragraphs, but the ~270 pages in between are simply not worth the time.
Suckered in from the opening sentences:At the beginning of the summer I had lunch with my father, the gangster, who was in town for the weekend to transact some of his vague business.
This is an author who loves every one of his characters and therefore we cannot but love them too.A booky extract for goodreaders:I’d wanted to work in a true, old-fashioned bookshop, crammed with the mingled smells of literature and Pittsburgh blowing in through the open door.
But that’s what made this frustrating for me; having read Chabon’s best works first (Kavalier & Klay & Final Solution), seeing how unpolished Mysteries is alters how much I enjoyed this book.
Pacing-wise, Mysteries spends way too much time (in my estimation, about 4/5 of the book) shaping the main characters, developing their interactions, and setting up the book’s climax so that when it wraps up in the final few chapters, it feels rushed.
Rather, Mysteries takes place in one summer in 300 pages; I feel like Chabon could have shortened much of the set-up and expanded the ending to even out the timeline of events.
Take a dull boy in a dull city during a dull, liminal summer. Not an adult but soon-to-be, not really anything yet but certain he will be. The Mysteries of Pittsburgh begins at this doorway and records Art Bechstein’s quest for a summer of whimsy and profundity that will change him for the better. June finds Art making fantastic new friends who all seem to know how to live better than he does. Inspired, Art sits atop a hill in Pittsburgh and thinks this: I smoked and looked down at the bottom of
The Mysteries of Pittsburgh begins at this doorway and records Art Bechstein’s quest for a summer of whimsy and profundity that will change him for the better.
June finds Art making fantastic new friends who all seem to know how to live better than he does.
What does it mean to be “big”?Each character approaches bigness differently, and Art finds something to envy with every one.
Every character starts out big but pops at some point, floating downwards towards the blue-collar streets of Pittsburgh.
And maybe there, like Art, they’ll learn that bigness doesn’t come with living; it comes with remembering.
De la mano de este grupo de amigos obtenemos una visión inteligente y emocionante, quizás algo ingenua, de lo que significa el paso a la madurez, y del que Art aprenderá a disfrutar del placer de una conversación, de la amistad sincera y del amor.Una parte fundamental de la novela es la ambigüedad sexual del protagonista, que duda constantemente entre el amor por Arthur o Phlox.
Así mismo, también es importante en la vida de Art la difícil relación que mantiene con su padre, el clásico gángster, con el que cena eventualmente y de cuyo cariño y reconocimiento tiene absoluta dependencia.En resumen, ‘Los misterios de Pittsburgh’ es una novela muy bien escrita, que no hace más que apuntar en lo que se convertiría Chabon con los años: uno de los mejores escritores norteamericanos actuales.
The only other Michael Chabon book I have read is The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay, but that was enough to put him on my radar in a big way. In picking up this book, I was going back to his very early work, a coming-of-age-in-a-hot-summer tale of sexuality and transgression.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here. In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
An amazingly fast and fun coming-of-age novel about sex and friendship. Perhaps I speak in hindsight but it almost feels like Chabon is forcing himself to write Realist/Respectable Fiction instead of Good Fiction, and has to suppress his skills here and there. It's still an enriching and entertaining book.
She has been betrayed into the study of French, heedless of the terrible consequences, by her enchantment with this language, which has ruined more young American women than any other foreign tongue.==========Some compulsiveness inherited from my father, and also a kind of unnecessary delicacy, had always driven me to keep friends separate, to shun group excursions, but for this calm couple of weeks at the eye of the summer I felt free of the guilt that usually accompanied my juggling of friendships, and free of the sense of duplicity that went along with pushing the people I loved into separate corners of my life, and once in a while Phlox, Arthur, and I would eat our lunches on the same patch of grass.==========Just then-at the very instant she turned a fairly calm face to me-all the cicadas in the trees went ape, who knows why, and their music was as loud and ugly as a thousand televisions tuned to the news.
Art soon finds himself in a relationship with Phlox (who he was introduced to by Arthur), a girl of questionable fashion sense who seems to think she's living in a French New Wave film, and in a possible courtship with Arthur, who is gay.
Thrown into the mix is the charismatic and aptly mysterious Cleveland, a childhood friend of Arthur's, who is somehow connected with Art's father's dubious work.
Chabon's writing is right on the money, and there are paragraphs, passages and chapters that so conveyed some of my own experiences that I was often moved to tears, particularly in Art's dissecting of his friendships with Arthur and Cleveland; 
I saw the awful adaptation of this book recently and was so impressed by the tone of the piece and what lay at the heart of the mess they made they I immediately decided that the book should be moved to the top of my to be read list.
Now I can safely say that it was an adaptation in names and places only yet the tone and heart was lost in a different type of mess.Perhaps mess is too strong a word for describing the book, I just couldn't connect with it and didn't really care about what I was reading.
I mean, it's really comfortable to believe that greatness is something separate, inherent and unchanging; that it is emergent, changable and the outcome of (shudder) work is far more awkward.The Mysteries of Pittsburgh is a great example of this bubble-bursting, but an even better example of the growth of an author.
And while that is fantastically impressive, it's not an excuse.A lot of the novel's strength, its perfect render of the intensity of youth, are due to Chabon's age when writing it; if he gets the praise for age-related pros, he can take the criticism for age-related cons.
The characters are slightly quirky but lack substance, and eventually you figure out that the main concern of the story is the protagonist's confused sexuality (which culminates with a haphazard homosexual relationship that doesn't really change anything about him, or his life, or anyone else's life...including the reader's).
A book like this almost NEEDS an anticlimax, in fact--to suddenly drop some action in at the end would be totally incongruous and probably give the sedated reader a heart attack as a result.
In Pittsburgh, the choices are ambiguous (like the protag's sexuality, I guess...) and once made fail to change anything--at least, anything that counts.
The way the book is written reminds you of just how much literature is one of the greatest forms of art.
As usual, I'd like to quote many things from this book.
Some are things that provide glimpses of each character and how screwed up they are, others are relatable quotes about life.
I've decided against that, however, and instead I leave this very simple quote which, although isn't something you read and stand up to grab a pen to underline it, I find describes Art better than anything I could write about him: "Finally I reached into my pocket and flipped a quarter.
Heads was Phlox, tails was Arthur.
I don't know. I guess i'm not particularly taken by coming-of-age stories written from the p.o.v. of rich white kids. This doesn't imply that Art Bechstein's life had no conflict, but the Real characters in this book for me were Arthur & Cleveland. I felt really trapped behind Art's dribble ESPECIALLY as he describes his job at "Boardwalk Books" & i cringed with loathing during nearly every paragraph about his stupid girlfriends.This book was compared to  A Catcher in the Rye , a book i
I guess i'm not particularly taken by coming-of-age stories written from the p.o.v. of rich white kids.
I felt really trapped behind Art's dribble ESPECIALLY as he describes his job at "Boardwalk Books" & i cringed with loathing during nearly every paragraph about his stupid girlfriends.This book was compared to 
, a book i found equally forgettable for the same reasons.It was nice to see such a unique city described in a majestic way.
The narrator's voice won me over with his description of female French students.This book was like knowing a neurotic spoiled rich kid who possessed a tad of charm.

