https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14848936-killer-in-the-rain
This is a collection of short stories most of which were later developed into Philip Marlowe novels.
It is easily recognizable as a base for classic novel The Big Sleep.
The middle of the story repeats The Big Sleep verbatim at times, but the end is quite different and more violent.My rating of the collection is 4 stars which is mostly due to their influence on Raymond Chandler classic books.
The stories are entertaining enough to read if you are a fan of the author, but read all Philip Marlowe novels first before starting on these.
Killer in the Rain, Raymond ChandlerKiller in the Rain refers to a collection of short stories, including the eponymous title story, written by hard-boiled detective fiction author Raymond Chandler.
عنوانها: قاتل در باران؛ قاتل در باران و دو داستان دیگر؛ قاتل زیر باران؛ نویسنده: ریموند چندلر؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: پانزدهم نوامبر سال 2010 میلادیعنوان: قاتل در باران؛ نویسنده: ریموند چندلر؛ مترجم: امید نیک فرجام؛ تهران، نشر چشمه، 1388؛ در 115 ص؛ شابک: 9789643624033؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 معنوان: قاتل در باران و دو داستان دیگر؛ نویسنده: ریموند چندلر؛ مترجم: کاظم اسماعیلی؛ تهران، خجسته، 1387؛ در 227 ص؛ شابک: 9789646233874؛عنوان: قاتل زیر باران؛ نویسنده: ریموند چندلر؛ مترجم: محمد قصاع؛ تهران، قدیانی، 1393؛ در 112 ص؛ شابک: 9786002516206؛ عنوان: قاتل زیر باران؛ نویسنده: ریموند چندلر؛ مترجم: سیما زائررفیعی؛ تهران، روزگارنو، 1393؛ در 88 ص؛ شابک: 9786006867281؛ این داستان بعدها زمینه آفرینش رمانی کلاسیک با عنوان: «خواب عمیق» را پدید آورد.
Raymond Chandler's work is always worth reading, so I picked this up in my local indie bookshop when I was somewhat at a loss. The story from Killer in the Rain is essentially the one he uses in The Big Sleep, but here you can read it without all the elaborations, which makes it a bit more focused and easy to understand.Mostly, though, I read Chandler for his use of language, and he does not disappoint in this short story.
Muy buena recopilación de relatos (dos de ellos del gran Marlowe) que vuelven a demostrar que el maestro lo era por algo, hasta en las distancias cortas: un orfebre capaz de hacer verdadera poesía del relato policíaco.
This book was published by Hamish Hamilton London 1964 and has the dust jacket shown in the picture.Contents:vii - Introduction by Philip Durham001 - Killer in the Rain039 - The Man Who Liked Dogs073 - The Curtain107 - Try the Girl143 - Mandarin's Gold187 - Bay City Rules241 - The Lady In The Lake283 - No Crime in the MountainsThe copyright states: First Published in Great Britain 1964
Eight short stories in this book, written before Chandler wrote his novels.
They are all reused and amended in his more popular novels - and developed into his Philip Marlowe series.The main characters in these are all the basis of Philip Marlowe, but go by the names Carmady, Dalmas and Evans.The introduction does some analysis - which was cleverer than my own which consists of "...
Basically a short story published in novella form. A quick, fun read. I tried to study Chandler's style as I went through it. Very simple, not poetic really. Quite a lot of description of physical locations, but mostly focused on the man-made things in them rather than on the natural world. Interesting characters, though.
Un breve racconto per conoscere Raymond Chandler e posso dire che l’esperimento è riuscito, continuerò senz’altro a leggere i suoi libri. In poche pagine Chandler riesce a fare una descrizione dei personaggi così minuziosa, che riesci a vederli come in un film, mi è dispiaciuto finirlo così presto.
A collection of eight stories not previously reprinted, because Chandler had re-used much of the material in later novels (for some reason, he felt compelled to abandon material that had been thus "cannibalized") (according to the Introduction).
Now, Chandler is one of those amazing writers who lies in the background of a lot of later fiction - especially detective fiction - in part because of his material and in part because of his style.
That shows strongly in these stories.And then there are the amazing descriptions, and the way he rarely bothered to directly describe how his characters felt.
Maybe not fair to the book since I picked this up during a reading slump when nothing was really working for me.
One of those books that I thought I liked more than I did.
Which is to say, I would read a story, think, "that was pretty good," and then put the book down for four days without ever thinking of picking it up again.
Only read 4 of the 8 stories, which was enough for me to conclude that they're pretty much all the same.
Marlowe, under different monikers, talks and fights and drives through Los Angeles in a time before history began.
Eight short stories, two I'd read before--sort of. One of the short stories is The Lady in the Lake which Chandler later reworked as a Marlowe novel. The other I might have read as a short story, but I didn't remember all the details. None of these stories was a let down. They had all the classic Chandler ingredients--the language, the characterisation, and the twists. Am up past my bedtime because I couldn't put the book down.
من داستان های جنایی دوست دارم بخاطر همین هم این کتاب رو خوندمیه داستان مِلو و در سطح متوسط از همه لحاظ
Read during vacation.
Let us just say that elements of ‘Killer in the Rain’ and ‘The Curtain found their way into The Big Sleep; for Farewell My Lovely, Chandler made extensive use of sections of ‘The Man Who Liked Dogs’, ‘Try the Girl’, and ‘Mandarin’s Jade’; whilst The Lady in the Lake was made from components of ‘Bay City Blues’ and of course the story of the same name.‘No Crime in the Mountains’ is the story least familiar to readers of those three novels, since Chandler uses very little of this in The Lady in the Lake.
Including the story in the title, there are eight short stories in this collection.
Two of my favorites, The Man Who Liked Dogs, and The Lady in the Lake are included here.
Ray Chandler had an ear for dialogue, and a talent for description that grab the reader by the throat and march him off into shamus territory.
Consider this little randomly-chosen gem:"I pushed her back into the house without saying anything, shut the door.
We stood looking at each other inside.
Then all expression went out of her white face and it looked as intelligent as the bottom of a shoe box."  p.
Killer in the Rain was an enjoyable piece of detective fiction. It was certainly not what one would term a whodunnit; its attention to the more sordid aspects of crime and its lacking in whimsicality separated it quite distinctly from an Agatha Christie-style mystery. The plot was cogent and I enjoyed reading it, but although its weary, melancholy style had some appeal, I never felt truly entertained or excited by the story. The lack of humour accentuated this. In short, Killer in the Rain was a good novella, but not one that I would fervently recommend to others.
Early short story but it still has plenty of Chandler magic. "He had a belted suede raincoat on. He tore it open carelessly and got out a wallet that was not quite as big as a bale of hay. Currency stuck out of it at careless angles. When he slapped it down on his knee it made a fat sound that was pleasant to the ear."
Just one of the best American authors. I need this writing as much as I need the music of the Doors and Jimi Hendrix (which is a lot!)
Nice. The action is fast-paced. Para kang nanonood ng movie.
Whilst most of Chandler’s short stories were re-published (in collections such as The Simple Art of Murder and Trouble is My Business, these stories were held back until 1964, after Chandler’s death, as the plots had been re-used by Chandler in some of his novels.The first story, Killer in the Rain (Black Mask, January 1935) **** is recognisable as the blackmail plot element used in The Big Sleep.
The story has lots of twists and action, but it again lacks the poetic prose style of Chandler’s later work.
In fact, one of the best features of Chandler's writing is the feeling that you share the eyes of the detective, which pick up all the details of the scene and nuances of human behavior, but very few of his thoughts that explain what it all means.
For example, there's a scene in one of the later and best stories in the collection "The Lady in the Lake" in which the detective watches a mentally disturbed suspect punch himself in the face, and blood trickles down his chin.
Immediately our minds are brought back to a murder scene earlier in the story, in which the detective observed a corpse with blood dripping from its chin.
Killer in the Rain is a collection of eight of the toughest and most interesting Raymond Chandler short crime stories.
Included in this collection are the following – Killer in the Rain, The Man who liked Dogs, The Curtain, Try the Girl, Mandarin’s Jade, Bay City Blues, The Lady in the Lake and No Crime in the Mountains.
These short punchy stories may not have the elegant flowing poetry and prose of Chandler’s full-length novels but they are violent, hardboiled and just as mesmerising.
The stories clearly show the roots and origins of the more famous and celebrated well known novels, such as The Big Sleep, that followed them.
These early stories have the linguistic panache and gritty realism of the Marlowe novels, but they feel like trial runs, sandbox trials rather than the real thing.
The most irksome element of these stories is how often the Tec stumbles on a corpse, obscures the evidence surrounding the crime, then sets out on his own to solve the murder.
That this doesn't happen so often in the novels is one reason why these shorts feel like a proving ground for ideas, as if Chandler was trying to find the best way to present this scenario.
Chandler definitely has some sentences that he borrowed from Hemingway.
The hero's always going to get knocked unconscious in the 3rd or 4th chapter.
He's never really going to get paid.
He's going to drink a lot.But there are moments of literary brilliance, where Chandler makes the California landscape come alive in a real nice way, and there are some beautiful phrases about stars or the shapes light makes at different times.
He had a bad habit of writing those sentences that are lists of only two things with a comma between instead of an 'and', but he cut it out after a few stories.
If you like the dark mysteries of the 20s and 30s — especially those of Raymond Chandler, these short stories which in large part were the first drafts of such classics as Farewell, My Lovely and Farewell, My Lovely, you will thoroughly enjoy these short stories. Even not having read Chandler's novels (but certainly having seen some of the movies), I can see the common threads and the beginning framework that would become those classics. This is great reading. I can't wait to start on Chandler's novels.
This is one of those hard boiled private eye stories that made Raymond Chandler famous, and though the book was published in 1964, after Chandler's death, the story was written in the 30s and published in a magazine, Black Mask.As a literary work, read today, it is really nothing special.
The silent, strong, violent hero (or anti-hero) is quite common nowadays but being a long time reader of Child's Reacher novels, I can clearly see the line from Chandler to Child.This story is short, and can easily be read in one sitting.
Read it if you want a peek back 80-90 years, but otherwise there are better hard boiled books.
I was recommended Raymond Chandler earlier in the week, and this short little novella was a nice little introduction.Chandler’s style is punchy rather than prosey, mysterious rather than descriptive, and to the point. This allowed for fast paced, no frills action, and made for a good read.Books like this do have a place stylistically, but with little investment in the characters or their fate, it made this read feel a little pointless.However, as an intro to Chandler, I would definitely read a l
I was recommended Raymond Chandler earlier in the week, and this short little novella was a nice little introduction.  Chandler’s style is punchy rather than prosey, mysterious rather than descriptive, and to the point. This allowed for fast paced, no frills action, and made for a good read.  Books like this do have a place stylistically, but with little investment in the characters or their fate, it made this read feel a little pointless.  However, as an intro to Chandler, I would definitely read a longer book of his soon!
These are short stories Chandler wrote before his novels and in fact he used parts of the stories in the novels. The stories, however, stand on their own. Even if in keeping with the milieu of the stories, the racist references by characters are quite jarring and readers need to be prepared for that. Chandler is, however, a masterful writer, brilliant at describing both scenery and characters and his use of similes and metaphors is remarkable.
Concise and evocative as ever. This was an interesting collection of some of the short stories that Chandler "cannibalised" for his later novels. Very interesting to see how he changed things. As always, finishing a Chandler story leaves me doubting the good in humanity, no matter how knight-errant his protagonists may be.
