https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/234934.Sassafrass_Cypress_and_Indigo
A tribute to black women trying to find themselves, black women who are trying to live outside the box, clearly not an easy feat.It’s a very honest book about three sisters, Sassafrass, Cypress, and Indigo from Charleston, South Carolina.
)I don’t think I can write a review that does this book any justice without a reread but I will say that as a black woman this touched me deeply, and it showed me how difficult it is sometimes to live outside of the box particularly when so much is expected of you.
"So Cypress learned to see other people as themselves, and not as threats to her person." This line, and this novel, changed the way I conceptualize relationships. I'm still learning.
This was very different. Magical realism? Fantasy elements to the story for sure. I thoroughly enjoyed this very different look at the lives of these women.
“There wasn’t enough for Indigo in the world she’d been born to, so she made up what she needed.
What she thought the black people needed.”Steeped in sensuality, this is all about the magic of womanhood.
We’re given the distinctive characters of the varyingly wild sisters Sassafrass, Cypress, Indigo, and they appear in stark contrast with their sensible mother.
Our mama’s voices are like that.
We never stop hearing them, and they always seem to call us home.
“So, as I was saying, if you are in trouble, you just come right on home, quick as you can.”
This is exactly what I was hoping to get from the challenge - the discovery of a great book that I otherwise would never have chosen for myself.SC&I tells the story of three African-American sisters from the deep South, with the legacy of slavery still very much present in everything that surrounds them.
The book follows three highly spiritual and spirited African-American sisters, as they grow from girls to women, finding their sexuality and their place in the world post-slavery....
It's so easy to fall under this book's spell.Tell you what - why don't you just read it?
Three sisters grow up in South Carolina during the 1970s. The chapters are interspersed with letters from their mother, recipes, poetry, journal entries, etc. Black power and female power are common themes. Recommended by a fellow librarian.
Fill a glass that sparkles in sunlight with pure spring water.
Take your middle finger gently round the curve of your lips as you imagine your beloved might.
Kiss the edges of the finger.
Take a breath so deep your groin senses it.
Hold your breath while envisioning your beloved’s face.
Release the breath still picturing your beloved.
Then with the kissed finger, make a circle round the rim of the glass 12 times, each time repeating your beloved’s name.
Each time seeing your beloved filled with joy.
Let your beloved fill your heart.
Bring the glass to your lips.
But it is through the sisters' stories that we see the woman who has guided and molded them, a mother's love and wisdom, and a mother who tries to keep their father involved for a little bit in their lives at Christmas she hides a gift for each daughter from their father, another from her and then one from Santa.The author uses recipes, music and poetry to share the scents, tastes and sounds that surround the artistic sisters.
Love binds them and while their mother understands they must each find their own way in life, she also makes it clear to them that no matter what they do or have done, they can always come home.
Part of the reason I'm giving this book 3 stars is because I just can't get into magical realism.
My distaste for that genre is odd, since I enjoy fantasy books so much."Sassafrass, Cypress & Indigo" confused me at least 1/4 of the time and I frequently had to go back and re-read sentences to understand what was going on.
I felt for the characters, rooted for them in their struggles, and wished for them to get some damn sense when it came to their relationships.
I only wish we could've had a bigger focus on Indigo, it felt like her story was cut too short.
I really didn't like it. Very disappointed. I liked the beginning with Indigo and then it went downhill. The rest of the novel focused more on Sassafrass and Cyprus. I most definatly won't be picking up one of Ms. Shange's novels again.
This book was awesome. Not always what I expected. The book is vibrant with descriptions. I also got a kick out of the letters written by the mother, Hilda Effania. I think many of us know someone like that.
Excellent coming of age story telling by Shange. Delicious recipes included, and vegan-izable.
This is one of my most favorite books ever. This book transformed me. There's a passage about a flock of wild red birds that is forever stamped in my memory ...
I listened to this in two parts because my original library hold expired. It was a hard read for me. I’m not super into poetry and it’s verybpoetic. I’m not fond of writing about music or art and this is basically all about those things. But the stories of the sisters (and their mother) were interesting and it certainly was worth the time it took to read.
Not at all what I expected and I absolutely loved this book! I loved the recipes, journal entries, spells and letters. There were hints of magical realism and at time you had to slow down and figure out the puzzles. I don't always like that, but Ntozake made it makes sense. I loved reading about Cypress the most! I want to know what happens with these beautiful sisters.
Ntozake Shange shows five of many possible enchanting art forms - fibers, dancing, music, cooking and the white magic women of many cultures, races and ethnicities practice - that women around the world have been passing from one generation to the next for hundreds, probably thousands, of years.
Mama's three daughters are each named after a botanical species of the South: Sassafras and Cypress are trees, strong and long-living; Indigo is a plant, less permanent, though it is a perennial, but has historically left its mark when used as a dye and even a medicinal.
"Where there is woman there is magic." How could I not love a book that begins with that sentence?
I've been drawn to Shange's work for a very long time since I first read "for colored girls" more than a decade ago and I love her blending of poetry and narrative.
I'm generally drawn to the writing from women who came of age during the 60s and crafted their art during the 70s.
I love the sensibility from which Shange develops the sisters Sassafras, Cypress and Indigo.
I love this work because it's not just about getting to know these characters for me.

There is nothing that I can say that fully expresses how effing fantastic this book is. All the stars. Immediate re-read. And again and again. If I could I would read it everyday forever. I guess I can but that's obsessive. Obsessing will also ruin the magic of the writing. And the writing is magical. I've been dying to read "something beautiful." This book is everything that I needed it to be.  I'd recommend it to: People who also read and liked For Colored Girls but wanted so much more. People who liked Eve's Bayou, the film. And so on.
I really wanted to like this--African American female characters, sisters. But I think I've been spoiled by Toni Morrison. The story has mysticism/magic in it, & I'm a mystic, but this didn't engage me much. It felt formulaic somehow. Sigh.
this book is like a literary jambalaya: poetry, prose, recipes, drama. plus, i really like how she explores the different paths three artistic Southern-grown sisters take as they grow up. And sisterhood.
This is lovely, especially if you enjoy magical realism.
i wish it had focused on all the sisters stories equally but this is a really beautiful book. i love the way she writes!
2.5.
I experienced this story on audio. What a delicious treat!
*3.5 stars*I loved getting to know these daughters and how they interpret Geechee culture as they go off to make their own lives amidst the Civil Rights Movement.
While I did come to know each daughter as completely separate and unique women, I didn’t feel like I was able to follow their individual stories for long enough nor was I able to see enough of how they relate to each other.
Even so, I adore Shange’s writing style (it’s an experience for all of your senses) and still know her to be such an important Black female writer.
Book club pick that i was happy to read because I was woefully unfamiliar with Ntozake's work...however...I didn't really enjoy this one. :( May she rest in peace.
3.5. Really good first half. Second half not so much.
My first impression of her had been that she was an angry young spoiled brat living too fast.
Then, after we talked about Ntozake Shange, and this book, we shared a little about the traumas we’d each overcome.
Did people think so little of our outrage over atrocities that they also labeled me as a bitter spoiled brat?
In any case, this book, her writings, her willingness to expose the ugliness of tragic humanity to highlight the beauty of strength and love, have all had profound impact on my life.
First published in the early '80s this a marvellous piece of African American feminist writing that unpacks the richness of Geechee cultural backgrounds (see also Julie Dash's novel and distinctively different movie Daughters of the Dust) in the context of the '60s and '70s counter cultures, women's crafts (weaving plays a big role), and the politics of Black nationalism.In various of her essays Michelle Wallace justly celebrates Shange's writing (more so the play For coloured girls who have considered suicide when the rainbow is enuf) and this novel – with its multiple forms including blank verse, recipes, and poetic imagery – is eloquent and beautiful.
Shange's cultural knowledge is potent and a rich character in itself: she draws on multiple black art forms – textiles, dance, various musical forms – to celebrate women and both new and traditional knowledge.
