https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32388712-the-ministry-of-utmost-happiness
Perhaps it was a mistake to put it off and opt for Roy's newer release instead, but all I can say is my expectations have significantly lowered after reading The Ministry of Utmost Happiness.At first, I thought the story was slow, dense and hard to follow.
When it finally came back to the main issues, it took me a while to get back on track.The Ministry of Utmost Happiness is a book without a plot that simply explores the perspectives, past and present, of many characters.
That's not necessarily a bad thing, but it's also not the kind of book I enjoy reading.
It is a story about our contemporary world, of India, and Pakistan, delivered through the microcosm of individuals living through the never ending and harrowing conflict in Kashmir, and the fringe communities of outsiders in Delhi.
It begins with the observation of vultures being eliminated through poison, a metaphor for the way Indian society has been poisoned by a history of corrupt and venal politicians, religious hatreds, and the overflowing rivers of blood and death denied justice.
Amidst the carnage, Roy paints a picture of hope and love through her eccentrics and misfits for whom India offers no home.
Full of luscious prose and distinct story telling skills, Arundhati Roy expertly tells her readers a story of life in newly partitioned India.
The Ministry of Utmost Happiness can best be categorized as contemporary literary fiction containing Roy's prose in many forms including poetry, letters, composition, dialogue, and her expert story telling skills.
Her story begins in the graveyard Jannat Guest Home of Anjum, although we do not find out the setting or full cast of characters until much later.
The group develops a unique comradeship and it is amongst these people that Anjum lives for the rest of her life, either in the Khwabgah or guest house, which she builds for herself later on.
2017 Award for the Read I was Most Afraid to Dislike I can't go on. I have spent hours getting to 50 percent. I can't do it.This book is draining me despite a few passages of immense brilliance.My Infinite Jest of 2017 and because I can't finish it...likely my worst read.A new title for me is :The Ministry of Utmost Frustration !!
That is why the book by A Roy has become a dramatic monologue of the ideas and innuendos that she often offers off the books.
Reference to the past events are always the best way to write a novel; however, a subtle mechanism behind recalling the events of the past and making them sound like one wants to does call for a scrutiny!
All the things, except the heart-rendering protagonist and her/his plight to a genuine level, seem genuinely verbose and breast-beating against a certain line of idea.
I could do best by rating this novel one but did not do because I respect the 'author of fiction'!
464 pages of utter garbage (organic as well as inorganic) against the Indian state as well as the popular belief, this is what the book offers you. Unless you are an ardent follower of the ideas that Arundhati Roy usually offers as a perfect example of hired gun by the people with vested interest, there is nothing in this book for you. So, don't be a reader like many including me who have wasted our money and time reading this unworthy material. You can read more about this book on the link below: The Ministry of Utmost Happiness Review
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
This is one of the trickiest books to review because it is good and bad at the same time; likeable and non-likeable at the same time.
Fans of Roy should expect a novel that is so unlike its predecessor.
The writing is beautiful, (more grim and dingy compared to The God of Small things) and Roy has managed to fit in almost all the problems of India, both political and social.
Also, this is a book that will grow on you after you finish itRead the complete review to decide if the book would suit you - http://www.thebooksatchel.com/ministr...
The three friends, all of them men, who walk in and out of Tilo's life, represent the various facets of the societal fabric Roy wishes to highlight - Biplab is a senior officer in Intelligence Bureau, Naga is an incendiary journalist and Musa, an activist or terrorist (depending on the way you would like to see).

Inner dialogue while reading The Ministry Of Utmost Happiness:This is funOh this is sadThis is boring This is boring Who is this?Skip ahead to the part about the interesting character Shit now I don't know who they're talking aboutGo backThis is boring Skip ahead againSkimSkimSkimOnly 48% through?!It's a Man Booker keep goingSighThese judges always do this to meFinish reading in my carIt's hotI'm doneNext...
I was very late to one novelistic Roy party and relatively early to the next.
In 2014, I finally read The God of Small Things, Roy’s award-winning and (then) only novel, published nearly 20 years earlier.
See my review HERE for why.News that she’d finally written another novel (this) filled me with joy and excitement.
This is what Roy has devoted herself to in the years between her two novels.
By standards of a conventional novel, this is a failure.
It is one of the most interesting failures I've read.
It's a sprawling, ambitious novel with no plot.
This is bound to piss off far-right patriots and nationalists of every stripe.
Maybe my quibble is that she doesn't go far enough.
So that's my biggest issue with the book: at heart it's about radical politics, but it acquiesces to conservative notions of art and what a novel should be, maybe?
But if this is what failed fiction looks like--attentive to the dispossessed, the marginalised, and the oppressed; fractured, broken, and sprawling--then I'll take it over polite, well-mannered, perfectly-executed fiction any day.
DNF - No ratingSeveral days ago I posted that I was considering giving up on this book.
I rather enjoyed Roy's previous novel, The God of Small Things, and I am always drawn to books that will teach me something about another culture.
However, at the one-third point in this book, I felt like I had to wade through too much unknown territory in order to make some attempt to connect with the people with whom I was becoming acquainted.
This book, sadly, was not either of those things.
Should Ms. Roy decide to pen another novel in the future, I will not discount it.
And I tend to judge people often by whether they like the book or not.So this 20-year wait for her next novel has been excruciatingly long.
Readers strongly opposed to Roy's political views might have a more difficult task at their hands with this book though, because the novel covers the whole gamut of issues dear to her - Kashmir (the main plot), naxalism, capitalism, casteism, Gujarat riots, 1984 riots, rise of Hindu nationalism, and maybe more - and generally takes a stand not conforming to the widely held middle and upper class, 'mainland', view prevalent these days in India.
The effects of new imperialism, exploitation of people's lands, corruption of governments, people divided by religon, effects of invasion of Afghanistan, constant war as a way of money-making is given in the stories; fragment by fragment, motif by motif, through experiences from both sides..The story begins innocently, much like a fairy-tale from 1001 nights.
In the end, all the characters gather in a graveyard (one way or another) and in/through death all is erased and equalized; all the lost pieces of the soul are buried, and innocence starts being restored for the people in the story.
And at the same time it lacks so much that I really struggled to follow what was happening.Having previously attempted to read Roy's debut (and Booker winning) novel, The God of Small Things, and not finished it, I'm actually quite surprised I ended up completing her second (and longer) one.But this book had so much potential.
Roy's truly an excellent writer, I just wish she'd had a better editor.I won't complain about this book's length because 440 pages isn't necessarily too long.
Sadly, it became a story that, while I didn't want to put it down in the moment, will probably not stick with me for very long.
Tilottma, and her story winds through the second half of the book.Tilottma, or Tilo, is born to a Syriac Christian mother who fell in love with a Dalit.
The story of Tilo and Musa thus - circuitously, tortuously - winds back to Anjum, her home, and the baby.
Some incomplete thoughts - Roy treats identity as a liberating factor, but also a prison.
When gender and identity are built into language?Roy portrays India as a storm of chaos, and the authorial depictions range from the grotesque to the magical.
Little communities like Anjum's resting house in the graveyard, little islands in the vast sea of humanity and time.
4 stars for the prose2 stars for enjoymentI’ve heard so many wonderful things about Arundhati Roy’s “ The God of Small Things ” that I was really looking forward to reading her latest - despite a few less than shining reviews. I was still looking forward to reading “ The Ministry of Utmost Happiness .” What can I say about my actual experience reading this? I was occasionally awed by her prose, lovely. This is a moving story filled with the horrors of man’s inhumanity to man, not a new topic, bu
4 stars for the prose2 stars for enjoymentI’ve heard so many wonderful things about Arundhati Roy’s “
” that I was really looking forward to reading her latest - despite a few less than shining reviews.
I was still looking forward to reading “
And yet, even though I read lovely, thoughtful, perhaps even inspired sections, there were very limited times when I felt anything.
I feel the air.’And Mr. Karp turns to me and he says, ‘Okay, Morales.
It ranges across the Indian subcontinent with a special focus on the conflict in Kashmir.
Not all the din of their homecoming fills the silence left by the sparrows that have gone missing, and the old white-backed vultures, custodians of the dead for more than a hundred million years, that have been wiped out.
Diclofenac, cow aspirin, given to cattle as a muscle relaxant, to ease pain and increase the production of milk, works—worked—like nerve gas on white-backed vultures.
Roy does see the inherent tension in her position as well as one of the characters writes.
Arundhati Roy is here to save us all.
I have not been to India but she makes me feel as though I know it well with her beautiful descriptions.There is a small army of characters, some with difficult names, but the important ones are drawn well and their lives are quite extraordinary.
Definitely original.This is a book from which we can learn a lot about India, about war and poverty and what it does to people and of course how these people still live and love and survive.
Definitely worth reading!
It is a novel without a story.
And not knowing this sooner formed much of my early discontent with a novel that defied its own noun's traditions at every possible junction.Beautiful penmanship trumps all, for me.
And yet in a book that seemed the very definition of what that means, I found it hard to appreciate when there was no substance to back up what it was detailing.
It was like this book was written with water for ink and the the reader is encouraged to squint their eyes and detect whatever details they can from it and formulate this into a semblance of an original, complete thing.
It is big a book with a great many characters, incidents, issues; it primarily tells the story of Anjum a 'Hijra' (transgender) from Delhi.
The child is called 'Aftab', at the threshold of adolescence, Aftab becomes Anjum and leaves home to join a group of 'Hijras' in old Delhi.The first part of the book is its best.
Just like the city of Delhi, the Hijras are often loud, vulgar and unforgiving.
I'm giving up on this one. It has flashes of her brilliance, but it wanders too far and too often from the path.
(The lack of tough editing of a follow-up novel to a best-seller reminded me strongly of Donna Tartt's Goldfinch, where my review [https://www.goodreads.com/review/edit...] began	"It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a famous writer in possession of an over-long novel, must be in want of an editor.”)One of Roy's assertions - via a character, but it is one of several places where she indirectly justifies her style is:I would like to write one of those sophisticated stories in which even though nothing much happens there's lots to write about.
This year's Man Booker longlist announcement is due in a couple of days, so now seemed a good time to catch up with the only one I missed from last year's list.
I was deterred by the high price of the hardback edition and some pretty negative friend reviews, which lowered my expectations to the point where I was pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed it.As Roy's first novel in 20 years it is hardly surprising that it has a lot of ground to cover.
I spent weeks listening to Roy read her new book to me.
And that, I argue, is the reason to read this book.
Roy is more of an activist than a novelist.
Roy writes very well indeed, and if you open her 444-pg book anywhere you are likely to find a description you want to remember for its clarity and exactness, for making you want to book a ticket immediately to see if you can find that, too.
At the time, her youth, beauty, and passion influenced many reviewers, which I gleaned from their own words.
Set amongst the internal social turmoil of India and the cultural conflict with Pakistan, Roy’s writing is at times wonderfully poetic and often political.An eagerly awaiting mother praying for the safe delivery of her son Aftab finds on inspection that he has female parts.
But you can only hold secrets like this for so long and eventually, once revealed, Aftab at 15-years-old enters the Khwabgah (a transgender centre) in Delhi, to live amongst the community of Hijras for more than 30 years.
People also make lemonade out of lemons, as we also say in America.The book opens and closes following the Delhi life of Aftab/Anjum, a Muslim hermaphrodite, who is identified inaccurately as a ‘Hijra’ - a transfemale trapped in a male body - by most neighbors, who initially are tolerant of her sexuality since India has an ancient cultural history of acceptance and acknowledgement of LGBT communities, as did China too (not kidding).
This novel is without question a literary telling of actual facts mixed into fictional tales of true recent history, not an activist’s polemic.How it must annoy some religiously observant immigrant Indian Sikhs, Muslims and Hindus that they are perceived by their new neighbors in foreign western countries as being all of the same culture and appearance!
