https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/421056.The_Complete_Memoirs_of_George_Sherston
As you would expect from Sassoon the poet, the writing is beautiful, and accompanies you along the progression from the tranquil picture perfect Suffolk village of Butley, where young Sherston is imprinted by fox hunting loving groom, the main male role model as a youngster; to the horrors of war devastated France.The first volume,Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man is absolutely crucial to "get" Sherston and his background, and as a byproduct get a precious insight in the qualities that make English country life quintessentially English.
An atmospheric trip to a more innocent age, followed by the "war to end all wars". Beautifully written, and highly readable - two characteristics that don't always co-exist.
2)The first two-thirds of the book were mainly about fox hunting.
Really almost every page was about fox hunting.
3) What wasn't about fox hunting was about cricket or (in the later sections of the book)golf.
Unfortunately I think I was so exhausted and beaten down by the aforementioned first two-thirds of the book, that I wasn't able to fully appreciate the last section, which was about the Great War and his part in it, including his eventual anti-war stance and some time in a hospital with a psychologist because of it.
Maybe I should have just read that part.
The combined volume that includes Memoirs of a Foxhunting Man and Memoirs of an Infantry Officer.
Read together, the trivial, rather amusing Foxhunting Man foreshadows and underscores the horrors the Infantry Officer was to experience, putting a modern reader as close as one may ever get to the shocks and upheavals a soldier on the Western Front experienced.
Unlike his friend and protege Wilfred Owen, Sassoon lived through the War. Pat Barker's famed trilogy drew on Sassoon a great deal.
This book is well worth hunting up and it's more real than Barker (which I loved).
its a corker
Sassoon's pseudo-memoir is the standard for the genre of the WWI personal memoir. A view into a different world. Pat Barker's trilogy owes much to Sassoon.
To watch the day break from purple to dazzling gold while we trotted up a deep rutted lane; to inhale the early freshness when we were on the sheep-cropped uplands; to stare back at the low country with it's cock crowing farms and mist coiled waterways; thus to be riding out with a sense of spacious discovery - was it not something stolen from the lie-a-bed world and the luckless city workers - even though it ended in nothing more than the killing of a leash of fox cubs?Sentiments that I myself, with the exception of the fox cubs, share in far from idyllic C21st England.Next, comes the war service, promotion to Commissioned Office, dead friends, acts of heroism and eventually a bullet through the lung.
Many survivors were damaged psychologically beyond repair by their trench experiences, Siegfried Sassoon essentially writes out his attempts to come to terms with it and integrate it into "normal" life.
There were some reviews that mentioned that the first of the three books in this trilogy was boring.
As I progressed through the Complete Memoirs, I could see that George grew up in about four years of War. He went from a rather shallow individual with little to do except play cricket, hunt fox, and race horses to a person who joined the Army with a gung ho attitude.
The final book was very enjoyable following George's return to the service and his stints in Ireland, the Middle East and Africa, and finally back to France.
I'll keep this book permanently on my shelf.
I thoroughly enjoyed the first book in this trilogy but found the later two especially the last one quite heavy going. Despite that, there are some interesting parts such as Sherston's meeting with Dr Rivers. The charterer of Sherston is so thinly disguised that anybody wanting to know more about Sassoon couldn't go wrong by reading this book.
Although this is a fictionalised biography, it feels like an honest description of 'Sherston', he is at times infuriating (especially towards the start of the first book where he comes across as rather privileged and indulged) but this honesty is what makes the character descriptions so rounded and therefore believable.
It also shows just how much Sherston matures throughout the book, from the spoilt young man to the decorated officer of WWI, respected by his men.Probably my only criticism of the book (and it feels like a harsh one) is that the honesty doesn't extend to his relationships.
It is an important collection, especially if you are interested in the literature and the experiences of the First World War. Warning: the first volume, Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man, largely concerns fox-hunting, which Sassoon loved.
In the course of his accounts of his foolhardy bravery and his deep concern for the lives and deaths of other soldiers, you come to enter into a complex experience of a chaotic time (and you wonder whether guardian angels do sometimes exist, because it is astonishing that he survived 1914 to 1918, particularly given some of the things he did).
The book Regeneration, by Pat Barker, draws upon Sassoon's time in a military hospital for shell-shocked soldiers, where he had been sent after he published a protest against the continuation of the war.
Our book group read only the middle section "Memoirs of an Infantry Officer" and responded with mixed reviews.
I don't think that does justice to the book - you need to read the whole trilogy to put it in perspective.
Some of the criticism leveled at it was that he dwelt too much on his observations of the countryside instead of focusing on the details of trench warfare.
Given that he grew up in, and had a love for the countryside, it made perfect sense to me that he should be aware of his environment.
I think he managed to convey enough of the brutality of the war without getting into gory detail.
Along with Robert Graves, Sassoon wrote the best memoir of World War I that I have read. Sassoon, a British officer, differs from Graves in that his writing seems more detached and more focused on not just the war, but on life in Britain before, during and immediately after. "Sherston" is a fictional name and the book is a clearly an autobiography. I'd read Graves' "Goodbye to All That" first and if you enjoy it, try this next.
I have read both Memoirs and am disappointed. Sassoon makes one of histories most interesting and powerful events drier than old crusty bread. The trilogy is saved, if only slightly, by the last book.
There is no one who has successfully combined the drama and quotidian nature of life to such effect. Following the footsteps of many reviewers before, the past has never been no present and another person's experiences so well expressed as to be my own. Read it. (And weep)
