https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2425371.The_Gladiators
I've been on an ancient Roman kick lately, and I liked Darkness at Noon, so how could I resist reading Arthur Koestler's The Gladiators? Especially when I found a used copy of it with this incredible cover. There are scantily clad dancing girls in the background and half (mostly?) naked men going at each other with swords and tridents. Plus an oddly Old Western font for the title. Unfortunately, the book does not live up to the promising cover art. Koestler's tale covers the slave rebellions of
I've been on an ancient Roman kick lately, and I liked Darkness at Noon, so how could I resist reading Arthur Koestler's The Gladiators?
Koestler's tale covers the slave rebellions of 73-71 BC, led by Spartacus, a gladiator.
The army of slaves, eventually growing to more than 100,000, survived events such as a siege inside Mount Vesuvius to defeat Roman legions and capture several towns.
He uses this theme to tie together a trilogy that includes The Gladiators (published in 1939), Darkness at Noon (1940), and Arrival and Departure (1943), three books on different topics, but all about aspects of revolutions gone wrong.
But it reminded me of how tiny is the number of slaves of whom anything whatever is known.
I myself know the names of just three slaves—Spartacus himself, the fabulous Aesop, who is supposed to have been a slave, and the philosopher Epictetus, who was one of those learned slaves whom the Roman plutocrats liked to have among their retinue.
Spartacus, I suppose, is much the most widely known slave there ever was.
“Apronius dá de ombros, aprendeu a lição e sabe que a política não é nada mais que uma conspiração sinistra de forças invisíveis com o objetivo de roubar o homem comum transformar sua vida numa miséria. A razão foi uma bússola tão defeituosa que ao guiá-los por um caminho tortuoso e cheio de meandros, o próprio objetivo acabou desaparecendo no meio da névoa.”
Una novela histórica interesante por muchos motivos, te traslada a 21 siglos atrás y tiene la virtud (como tantas que reviven el mundo romano) de demostrar que el elemento humano de la historia no ha cambiado prácticamente nada; los mismos sentimientos, anhelos, envidias, conspiraciones y dudas...
Según confiesa el propio Koestler, tardó en escribirla 4 años y...
vaya 4 años: desencanto con la "religión" comunista, guerra civil en España, condena a muerte en Sevilla evitada in extremis, repudio del comunismo y ostracismo intelectual...
Con tantas peripecias vitales no me extraña que la novela parezca escrita por distintas personas.
Lenin's favorite character in history is said to have been precisely the gladiator of the school in Capua, Spartacus, who emerged as the primary commander of the slave forces; however, the real leader, in Koestler's novel, is the gladiator without ambition or ideals, 'the man with the seal's head', Crixus.Crixus is the expression of vengeance as justice and indulgence as the compensation for privation and exploitation, understanding that the rich and the powerful always win in the end so the only sensible response is to take everything you can while you can.
-Con los romanos como excusa, repaso a ciertas tendencias de los “ismos” en nuestra historia.-Género.
Novela histórica (pero bastante especial, sigan leyendo).Lo que nos cuenta.
El galo Crixus y el tracio Espartaco lideran al grupo de gladiadores que se han levantado en armas contra el dominio de Roma, uniendo a su causa a otros esclavos según avanzan por la Campania, aunque no todos los siervos se unen a ellos.
El senado de Roma resuelve enviar tropas para sofocar la rebelión que, en ese momento, no es demasiado grande.
Libro también conocido como “Los gladiadores”.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
- éditions Calmann-Lévy, collection pourpre, 1945 -Ah bon sang, mais quelle déception !
Spartacus est très loin d'avoir les traits d'un héros ou d'un leaser.
L'écriture est morne, dans une vague tentative d'imitation du style antique pour certains passage.
Je sais que cet ouvrage a été écrit dans la première partie du XXème siècle.
L'une d'entre elle est presque évoquée dans les dernières pages, en tant que sorcière ou prophétesse.
Une bonne grosse déception, pourtant Le sujet était prometteur.
Mais peut-être me suis-je trop attachée à la série, très romancée il est vrai, mais beaucoup mieux fournie en termes d'actions et de héros.
Pessimismo senza margini: anche alla religione, nel libro ritratta attraverso il simpatico vecchio esseno con la testa a pallottola, Koestler non fa sconti.Non cercate quindi in questo libro l'epica del film di Kubrick, la figura di Spartaco non è quella del campione della libertà, quanto quella molto più tragica del fallimento della ricerca della stessa.Un chicca a parte è costituita dalle pagine in cui Licinio Crasso compie una lucida (Koestler la chiama cinica) analisi marxiana dell'economia romana nel 75 a.C.: grandiosa nella sua semplicità.
Koestler'in süper anlatımıyla yazılmış bir kitap. Tarihsel araştırması iyi yapılmış ve güncel dizilerle pek alakası yok. Eğer Spartacus dizisini izlediyseniz bu kitaptaki olaylar, kişiler ve mekanlar size değişik gelebilir. Fakat Bu konuda farklı kaynaklar okumuş biri olarak Koestler'in eseri epey derinlikli ve gerçeğe daha uygun bir şekilde kaleme alınmış. Koestler'in daha önce "Geliş ve Gidiş" isimli kitabını okuyan biri olarak, Spartacus destanını onun satırlarından okumak epey iyi geldi. Azınlığın çoğunluğa savaştığı, imkansız olanın mümkün kılındığı bir hikaye okumak isteyen herkese naçizane tavsiyemdir.
Llegaban del campo y la ciudad; artesanos, holgazanes, andrajosos doctrinariosEspartaco y su gente (100 mil esclavos, locos y ladrones) es lo que hoy llamamos "tribu de zombies", protagonizan una historia que a pesar de lo histórica es ficción y sirve para hacerle unas preguntas a las revoluciones y a las democracias.
Es una radiografía de por qué fallan los intentos de derrocar la injusticia y las violaciones de derechs humanos en masa.Espartaco no era más que el común denominador de todas las esperanzas y deseos contradictorios.No es espoiler, porque todas sabemos que la revolución de los gladiadores, muy violenta y a veces sin sentido, no funcionó, pero demostró que Roma, republicana o imperial, era vencible...
En 73 avant J.-C., en plein c ur de l empire romain, une troupe de soixante-dix gladiateurs conduite par le Thrace Spartacus s échappe d un cirque.
Pendant deux ans ils vont tenir en échec le pouvoir de Rome, détruisant des villes entières sur leur passage, avant d être vaincus par Crassus.Scrupuleuse reconstitution historique d une révolution tragique qui frappe encore aujourd hui les esprits, ce roman est l histoire d un homme et de son combat, vaincu car il n a pas su être impitoyable.
Tells the story of the Spartacus rebellion in Koestler's dry yet gripping style. Philosophical / sociological / dare one say dialectical considerations are well spun out in dialogue between main charcaters. Koestler's vision on the doomed-to-fail nature of armed rebellion, no matter how just the cause as well as the chronicle of the demise of the idealism that fuelled it are classic. Far more enjoyable a read than Darkness at noon.
Read this book in the Spanish version published by "Circulo de Lectores" ages ago. It's a terrific book about the development of social ideas and movements (revolutions), the politics involved, etc. It could be considered a premonition of the failure of Communism and the reasons behind it. And it not only applies to Communism but to any other political structure from the past and as things go by, from the future.
Interesting take on the story. Now to re-read the next one in the trilogy - Darkness at noon - which I read in college. So many of the factors that Crassus mentions are very applicable now. This made me wonder when the wage slave rebellion will start and how will it end?
A polemic imagining of the Spartacus wars, written fron within the rebels' camp. It drips with sweat on parched skin, cut and slashed with swords and bringing the Iron Age to the twentieth century amud revolutions and world wars.
COVERhttp://pictures2.todocoleccion.net/tc...
J'ai beaucoup aimé le mélange d'éléments historiques et de réflection sur la quête de la liberté. C'est très prenant.
شاهکار آرتور کوستلر نویسنده شهیر فرانسه/از مجموعه صد کتاب از صد نویسنده بزرگ دنیا
The Gladiators is a philosophical novel focused on Spartacus and his failed uprising. A thoughtful read, with a strong political commentary that unsurprisingly relates very much to issues of today.
Set in the Roman Republic, it tells the tale of Spartacus’s revolt and search for utopia.
