https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85491.The_Villa
I usually try to avoid Nora Roberts because she's written so many and a lot of her books tend to be series/trilogies but I was recommended this one and as someone who has been to the vineyards of Napa Valley, I was much intrigued.And this story was perfect.
But mostly, I loved this book for the strong sense of family that runs through, of loyalty, of love for each other.
The three generations of Giambelli women are very strong and sexy and loving and I adored that.
Cumple perfectamente su función. Entretenido, ligero y ameno, por lo que es ideal para leer entre libros más densos.
Still good one :)Great descriptions, steamy love scenes and mystery...Recommendations ;)
This is my only Nora Roberts read thus far. Since more of her works are part of a series, I wanted to try out a stand alone novel of hers. The Villa is a story of three generation of strong women and the courageous struggle they go through to secure, advance and manage their flourishing family business. Nora Roberts has a simple and easy writing style; her characters, both main and supporting are believable; and the plot was interesting enough. Although I could not say it is a great write, somehow it got on well with me.
Yiiiiiiiiiikes. There's a lot of plot here, and a lot of craziness happening at the same time, and in a way I wish there were less, and that Tyler and Sophie got more time. This is engrossing - it really is a complete world - but I just didn't like that world as much as others Roberts has created.
This book was like a 80's soap opera, and I couldn't stop reading. The beginning is a little overwhelming with the background and casts, but once the storyline gets underway, I devoured it. Tyler, like all NR heroes is amazing. I also appreciate the role reversal of Sophia and Tyler. I continue to love all things NR.
No se por donde empezar,me ha encantado,No quería terminarlo!!!Una historia bien contada,que no solo
I was really itching for a solid romance novel with a good plot and good character and this delivered!!!
Italian family dramatics, shady business drama, murder!, family dramatics, two really good relationships that are developed and explored, a family where the women run things!
I almost wanted more from Sophie/Tyler, because their UST was so good, that I wanted the same for RST, but that's honestly the smallest of personal quibbles I have.
It was a really satisfying read.
A good read that'll probably stay in the comfort read pile.
Now I'm not generally one to complain about being stuck in a library, but my job was to sit there and field questions for 3 hours from girls who were interested in joining Girl Scouts.
And the library only had 5 books.One of which was Nora Roberts "The Villa," so I grabbed it and started reading with very little expectation of great goodness.
The last Nora Roberts books I read some years ago was a trilogy about some neo-pagan witches who all meet devastatingly handsome men to fall in love with.
Nora Roberts has obviously never been to a pagan festival.
Good story.
As a wine-lover with a sister who lives in northern California, I was naturally attracted to the Napa Valley setting of THE VILLA, my first from Nora Roberts.
Sophia Giambelli and Tyler MacMillan have known each other since they were kids, their family's vineyards as the other's backyard.
The formation of Giambelli-MacMillan Wines throws them both into each other's hair, work and hearts.THE VILLA has triple-romance, conspiracy, lies and deception, murder, and, well ...
The characters didn't need to be constantly involved for this marvelous story to captivate me.
I could "see" the vineyards of Napa Valley and the streets of Venice.
Lo peor: A esta novela le sobran como 150 páginas.
Es como ver un telefilm de antenta 3 de los domingos pero de los que aburren.
Al final tiene un pequeño punto de imprevisibilidad pero en general es super líneal, llena de tópicos, unos romances emapalagosos y con muchos aires de telenovela venezolana.
El personaje que más me ha gustado: Por decir uno, digo René, es la mala pero es la qua pone algo de intriga y emoción, gracias René por tus momentos e imperfecciones.
El personaje que menos me ha gustado: Tyler....
I liked the book because it's not formula Roberts; it's a complicated story with a large cast and the plot unravels in a way that manages to not be too predictable.
You know early on who the villain is, but the mystery is in his motivations and who he talks into being his accomplices.
My only complaints: I didn't really like Sophia that much, which is a problem given she's the primary heroine.
abrasive.
It's possible to be a strong woman without being bitchy, you know.
I thought also that some of the wine-related imagery was a bit heavy-handed.
It's very rare for me to find a Nora Roberts novel I don't like, but this is one.
I didn't like the female lead character, Sophia, at all.
Tyler was okay, but Sophia really grated on my nerves.
;o)Then there was Sophia's mother, Pilar, who remained a pale, flat character for most of the book.
He was good with his kids, but when he was with Pilar I just thought he behaved too agressively.
Normally, characterization is one of Nora Robert's strong points but she somehow missed her mark with "The Villa" ...
Nora Roberts, me has decepcionado.Me esperaba muchísimo más de Las viñas de Napa Valley, sobre todo porque me he acostumbrado a que todos los libros de Nora Roberts me encanten, que la sinopsis no pintaba nada mal y que el tema de los vinos me resulta interesante.
Cuando se introduce al personaje de David y este muestra interés en ella, Claudia lo rechaza una y otra vez por motivos como "Es que soy muy vieja para volver a tener una relación", "mi cuerpo no es atractivo", "uy, ¿cómo voy a tener sexo con él con mi edad?
Claudia, después de todo el por culo que da con las infidelidades de Tony, a esta no le presta ni la más mínima atención.
Odio puntuar tan bajo un libro y puede que el problema no sea la historia, puede que sea yo, pero algo ha fallado. Nora Roberts me gusta como autora y sus libros no me decepcionan, pero en esta ocasión no he conectado ni con la historia ni con los personajes y mira que la trama era buena, pero no sé porque no ha podido ser. De todas formas seguiré leyendo a esta autora, necesito reconciliarme con ella en un futuro.
It’s hard to like a story when I am irritated at the audiobook narrator.The story would be better if reading the physical book.
Most of the time the narrator would draw it out like Geeum-bellllllllll’-ee.
That might be ok if an Italian person were speaking, but the narrator would say it during 3rd person narration and when U.S. born characters were speaking.
Too many U.S. characters said the name as if they were Italian like Ta-rrrrrraaaayt’-za (rolling the r).
It didn’t always fit.I did not like the Bela Lugosi style accent the narrator used for ethnic Italians.My favorite narrator Frank Muller read with a sense of wonder.
Ugh! The Villa is not the best work by Nora Roberts. The main characters, Sophia and Tyler, well, I would not be interested in sitting next to them at a dinner party. Perhaps it was all the information about vineyards, but I felt like I was reading the script of a 1980's mini-drama! Well, you win some and you lose some!!Go Cards! L1C4!!
creo que este hasta los supera.
Tiene todos los ingredientes para ser una gran obra suya: suspense, intriga, romance, buena ambientación...
La relación entre los protagonistas se fragua de forma natural y paulatinamente, sin forzarla o las típicas noñerías que suelen darse con otras autoras del género.
Y, ante todo, es una historia de segundas oportunidades, donde los vínculos familiares, el proceso de la cosecha, la transición de una generación a otra...
No sé por qué, cuando visualizaba a Sophia, la protagonista, veía interpretándola a Julia Roberts...xdLa autora me ha sorprendido una vez más, todo dentro del tipo de historias que suele escribir.
UAU!! Eu adoro a Nora Roberts, mas ela consegue sempre surpreender-me! Que história espetacular!!
Gosto de ler este tipo de livros, pois por mais que por vezes as histórias sejam semelhantes ou por vezes mesmo iguais (mudando apenas os nomes das persongens) a autora tem sem dúvida o dom de contar histórias e se quero ler um livro que não puxe muito por mim, os livros da Nora são os ideaisEste "A Villa" é um livro que enche perfeitamente as meididas que qualquer leitora que goste de um bom romance.
Foi um caso bem pensado, com lógica e não acabou abruptamente como tem acontecido nos livros anteriores que li.
The matriarch, Tereza Giambelli, calls her family together to their winery in the Napa Valley to announce big changes in the governance and structure of the company.
Not everyone is happy with the changes as some are promoted, some are demoted and a new COO uncovers embezzlement and fraud.There are two lovely romances that happen during the course of the book.
The other romance is the more volatile one between Pilar's fiery daughter Sophia and Tyler MacMillan, a partner in the winery who just loves being in the fields with his grapes.The suspense plot of the book works very well as well.
The "Hero" was okay, but generally dull; the "B Plot Hero" was better, overall, but unattractively aggressive when it came to his "B Plot Heroine", who was dishwater.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[The main deal breaker for me was that "twist" ending - not only was it unsettling, but completely impractical.
(hide spoiler)]I like Roberts' works, and will continue to snap them up, but this one wasn't for me, for several reasons.
I can't complain for a few random missed shots over the years, though.
For me, though I finished it without too much pain, this one was a miss, for sure.
With him, came his grandson who has also carried on the MacMillan family business, working in the fields.
Tyler has little need for the business side of winemaking while Sophia, an advertising exec, spends as little time in the field as possible.
But they are thrown together when her grandmother and his grandfather decide that they are going to ensure that their legacy is secure by shaking up the company and making both Sophia and Ty work in each others fields.
Nora never disappoints!
Loved the romance between the couple...loved Ty's character, especially.
The action/intrigue was excellent in this one and the side characters were also very strong.
Maddy was so cool!
Only Nora can be so vague in a love scene but still make the couple hot.
I think it's so sort of weaving of emotion with sensuality thing.
Then you add in the actions...little touches, verbal sparing, etc....outside the bedroom and you end up with a satisfying love story within an well woven plot fraught with danger and suspense.
I learned interesting things about wine making without the 'lesson' being tedious.
Maddy made this a 4* for me, and she's not even one of the 'heroines'!
Nora Roberts at her finest.Though it was contemporary, it was everything I love about epic 80s romantic suspense miniseries done really well. It was a lush, full world with interesting characters, steamy romances and friendship. Ahhh, I loved every word.
Wine making dynasty and what happens when someone tries to sabotage their business
Into the mesmerizing vineyards... Vintage villa.... An empire of wine business run by a proud family... A plot of suspense, romance, scandal, murders, embezzlement, arson... Indeed a good read ..
Um dos pontos mais positivos nesta estória são as personagens femininas fortes, três mulheres de negócios aliadas a homens que as apoiam e complementam: Tereza (La Signora), a matriarca e chefe dos negócios da família em conjunto com Eli, seu marido há muitos anos, um amor duradouro assente na amizade e honestidade; Pilar, uma mulher vítima de traições e desgostos mas que apenas quer esquecer o passado e encontrar o seu lugar na empresa, encontrará em David uma razão para voltar a acreditar no amor; Sophia, uma jovem inteligente e independente que encontra em Tyler o seu absoluto oposto e, no fundo, o seu complemento perfeito!
