https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/289644.Even_Now
A+; Emotions ranging from heartbreaking to triumphant in this lovely novel. If you've ever doubted the power of one moment, you won't after reading this. Ms. Kingsbury is without question the best in Christian fiction, delivering a powerful message that does not come across as preachy or ignore the realities in life. No goody-two-shoes characters cripple her prose. Real people struggle with their faith issues and come out closer to God and each other because of it.
Generally, I don't especially like Christian fiction.
This book is an example of why I don't like it.
The story felt contrived and forced, like the author tried to imagine everything that could possibly go wrong and made it happen.
But worse was that I felt like the author was trying to make a political statement that I was neither going to appreciate nor agree with.
So I ended up giving it 3 stars because the author showed a broader sense of tolerance than I thought she would.
If you're not a Christian fiction fan, I would steer clear of this one...
I had a couple of issues with this story line:1.The parents of these two teenagers conspire against them by taking deliberate steps to separate them from each other.
My issue … the author wants us to believe that after all that has transpired these seven characters will reunite and fall into each other’s arms full of forgiveness because they now have God in their lives.
I am just saying I don’t think that the forgiveness could have come so easily without a little conflict and venting of anger first.
Even Now had me smiling and laughing and making some sort of sound in my throat that sounded like sobbing and choking all at once...
Once in a while, perhaps because my tears come hard when I read, I appreciate reading a book so beautifully written that it sends my emotions on a rollercoaster.
This book is definitely one of those books.
If you don't mind shedding a tear or clutching fearfully at your chest for the sake of the characters, this book is definitely for you.
I feel like I'm really going against the grain here by saying this book was OK since Karen Kingsbury is such a famous author. However, I just wasn't caught up in this book. It was very "average" for me. In my opinion, the characters were forgettable and the development was slow. There were elements of the story that were somewhat implausible - I found myself thinking "why on earth would she do that?" or "how could she not know that" a couple of times. There were definitely some stretches. I just didn't really feel it and wouldn't read it again.
Even now⭐Lauren got pregnant but parents being parents wanted her to keep her pure wanted her to get an abortion and forget the boy the impregnated her but she loved him and she would love this baby. She was told the baby died so she needed to find her boyfriend. The childs father, no one would keep them apart now. They would grow up and start a family again. But Laurens daughter Emily didnt die it was a mistake but Lauren didnt want to talk to her parents. Her parents were the reason she was mi
Even now⭐️Lauren got pregnant but parents being parents wanted her to keep her pure wanted her to get an abortion and forget the boy the impregnated her but she loved him and she would love this baby.
She was told the baby died so she needed to find her boyfriend.
But Laurens daughter Emily didnt die it was a mistake but Lauren didnt want to talk to her parents.
All the mistakes they made with lauren were lessons and taught them how to be great parents to Emily.
But even though emily had everything she still didnt have her parents.
Mainly due to disappointment.When I read self-published work, mistakes are common and expected.
However, this is a well-known author with a respected publisher, yet the mistakes in storyline and editing seem to indicate both are interested far more in the profit to be had and than in a quality story and book.A few examples:1.
I am not an editor and read fast, yet, was distracted by dozens of simple editing mistakes.
The reaction to the loss of a baby, the story of how they remain apart and unable to contact one another, and the actions of the parents to keep them apart begin the list of plot and storyline that simply could not happen.
3. The storyline has conflicting facts.
Spoiler Alert!!!!!! The book even now is about a girl (Lauren) and a boy (Shane) their parents separate them after they find out Lauren is pregnant. Lauren thought Emily died 4 weeks after being born all because of a miscommunication with the hospital after she leaves Emily there overnight. Lauren runs away and her parents take care of the baby 18 years later both of Emily's parents find out that Emily is actually alive. Her dad meets her for the first time, and her mom is reunited with Emily.
The book even now is about a girl (Lauren) and a boy (Shane) their parents separate them after they find out Lauren is pregnant.
The main characters are Lauren, Shane, Emily, and Angela.
The protagonist is Emily, she finds her parents and reunite them after 18 years apart, she shows her mother, Lauren, that God is amazing and miracles do happen everyday, and helps Lauren find her connection to God again.
Even though Shane wants to marry Lauren and help her raise the baby.
My favorite part of the book was when Lauren finally got to see Emily after 18 years.
It is a good thing that this is not the first Kingsbury book that I have read, because if it had been, I would not have read another and that would have been a loss.
The constant emotional pain that the characters in "Even Now" endure (most of it brought on by themselves) for a solid eighteen years and 333 pages left me wrung out and exhausted.
The beautiful thing about time is that it heals and softens our losses and sorrows, even if not able to completely erase them.
It was unrealistic that the pain of these characters (especially Lauren's) never dulled.
My first issue with this book is the fact that Shane and Lauren had no idea where the other was moving to.
My second issue was with Lauren running away after she thought Emily died.
My third issue was that there was no contact between Emily and Shane's parents, other than saying goodbye at the airport.
Shouldn't there have been a scene where they ask Emily for forgiveness and try to get to know their granddaughter?
I don't know what Ms. Kingsbury or her editor were thinking when they decided to publish this nonsense.
What can I say that I haven't already said while I was reading... Horrible editing, spelling mistakes nearly every page wherein a space was moved/added/removed, making the intended words into completely different words... but still real words, albeit ones that didn't make sense in the sentence. Continuity errors. Contrived plot points, characters lacking common sense. I was interested in the basic plot, but it could have been done SO much better. Though she's quite prolific and popular, I haven't read much by this author. This one doesn't give me a good feeling about seeking out any of her other works.
I fell in love with this story.
The characters were amazing.
Lauren and Shane's love for each other was flawless, even as kids.
They grew up without each other.
And their child little Emily.
Found them and tried to get them back together.
I love it.
Emily was adorable.
Her character was awesome.
Karen Kingsbury made a great contrast of characters.
Although it was in ways similar to one other book I read called The Chance.
But I overly enjoyed both books.
This book was Heartbreaking, sad, heartwarming, happy, loveable.
I cant wait to read the sequel to this book.
Not a huge fan of Christian fiction with a few exceptions. This was one of the most contrived story lines I've ever read. None of the actions made sense - all of the consequences were extreme. The outcome was just too neatly worked out. If you're looking for an easy read where you can just skim pages while people are whining or making dumb mistakes, this is it.
A man and woman separated by lies and long years.
With hallmark tenderness and power, Karen Kingsbury weaves a tapestry of lives, losses, love, and faith and the miracle of resurrectionEVER AFTERIn Ever After, the moving sequel to Even Now, Emily Anderson, now twenty, is attending college on a soccer scholarship when she meets the man who changes everything for her.
Lauren and Shane still struggle to move past their opposing beliefs about war, politics, and faith.
So she says a painful good-bye to her long-ago love and returns to her job as a war correspondent in Afghanistan.
Great Karen Kingsbury Story!
It starts out about two teenagers who fall in love and Lauren (the main girl) gets pregnant.
She decides to keep her baby instead of giving it up for adoption much to the dismay of her parents and her boyfriends parents.
They want to get married and raise the baby together because they are in love.
Lauren has her baby and somethings happen and she ends up leaving only to come back 18 years later to meet the daughter she didn't know was still alive!
Great book would recommend.
"A young woman seeking answers to her heart's deep questions.
A man and woman separted by lies and long years...yet who have never fogotten each other.
With hallmark tenderness and power, Karen Kingsbury weaves a tapestry of lives, losses, love, and faith--and the miracle of resurrection."Two families the Galanters and the Andersons - close knit with a son and daughter who grow up together, fall in love, and make a tragic mistake which tears the two families to pieces.
Karen Kingsbury has written a riveting tale of what happens when people follow their own will rather than God's will and the chaos it creates.
First off, I read this on my Kindle.
There were so many typos that it just drove me crazy.
They were real words, but out of context, such as "allow edit" instead of "allowed it".
It makes me crazy to see typos in books, there is just no excuse for that.
Overall, the story was ok.
Christian romance/drama.
I did get a little frustrated with characters who seem to have no common sense at all.
Parts of the story were unbelievable to me.
It was a quick read, and a page turner.
I am wavering between 2 and 3 stars.
I listened to it as an audiobook and didn't like it's production so maybe that gives me a dim view of it.
The woman reading the book read painfully slow, would mess up the meaning of sentences through her inflection and used annoying baby talk at times for an apparently smart college student.
About the book though, it was ok.
I found it predictable and frustrating when people who were said to be smart were so slow to do obvious things.I do appreciate the fact that there is fiction out there to read which is clean and promotes a belief in God.
Emily Anderson was born to teenage parents who were separated by their own parents as a result of her coming into the world. Emily is raised by her grandparents who have been searching for her mother, Lauren, who has been missing since Emily was just weeks old. Once Emily is old enough, she begins searching, too, only her search expands to find her father, Shane, as well, whose parents moved to California to keep him away from her mother. It is a story of lost love, but one I found rather predictable at points.
My mom loves Karen Kingsbury and has been passing them down to me... so I finally picked one up. Very nice story, just lacks character detail, suspense etc. Also thought very slow moving and somewhat cheesy. But easy read... all wraps up nice.
A very well written Christian novel about a teenage pregnancy and how it affected two very affluent families. The novel is written over a 19 year span ... what happens to the teens, the parents and the baby? I enjoyed this book very much. It was a little predictable, but good.
Well, at the time like this. I swear i hate goodreads rating system. I hardly give it 4 stars, but this book is too good for me to just give it 3 stars. I felt fond with the character, but the story became predictable. Well, that what's happen. 3.5 stars I enjoyed it,
I really liked this book. I hadn't read a Kingsbury book in a minute but I'm glad I picked up this book. I didn't have a problem with any of the characters and the plot kept me hooked from the very beginning. I'll be picking up the second one soon.
This is the very first book I literally loved! Loved of LOVED! I think teenagers and young adults will enjoy! I liked it very much! I always read it on my bed or something! Its good to now.
FamilyI love Kingsbury novels!! Always a joy to read about families,belief in prayer and knowing that no one is perfect.
This book was amazing! It made me feel at times, happy, sad, over joyed, shocked,etc. Above all, I established a relationship with every single one of the characters in the book.
inspirational.
This is the second Karen Kingsbury book I read this year. The first one was good but this one was much better. Not predictable so it held my interest to the end.
This book was really good because it showed how 2 families were torn apart because of 2 people who did not stay pure.
VERY GOOD. Page turning and in the end I felt like I knew the characters.. especially Lauren. My mother recommended this to me and I am very glad she did. Can't wait to get the next book!
