https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/595375.Annie_on_My_Mind
Annie On My Mind will always have a special place in my heart, it was the first lesbian themed book I ever read.
You may not understand the enormity of this, but just try to understand being 14 and every book you read involves a romance between a man and a woman.
Every movie, every TV show, everyone I know is straight, nobody knows I'm gay, I barely understand it myself, and I pick up this book and suddenly it's like I can breathe.
Suddenly I don't feel so alone, there's an actual published book I can relate to.
It is told from Liza’s point of view only, meaning that we do not have direct access to Annie’s thoughts, but that didn’t keep me from understanding and getting to know her almost as well as the main character herself.
This book was published thirty-six years ago, and yet, I would have believed you if you’d told me it hit the shelves yesterday.Because there are still too many LGBTQ+ people who do not feel safe bringing their relationship with their significant other into the open, and thus being their true selves.
Most important of all, it is a positive outlook on same-sex relationships, empowering LGBTQ+ people to trust themselves and not let anyone else dictate who they shall love.
“It’s all right with me,” she whispered, “if it is with you.”“I – I don’t know,” I said.It was like a war inside me; I couldn’t even recognize all the sides.
There was one that said, “No, this is wrong; you know it’s wrong and bad and sinful,” and there was another that said, “Nothing has ever felt so right and natural and true and good,” and another that said it was happening too fast, and another that just wanted to stop thinking altogether and fling my arms around Annie and hold her forever.
I've been thinking about audiobooks --and I saw a member notice this book a few minutes ago--and I just can't say enough good things about it.
Thank you **Iris** for this Audible book.
During that time I read -and was peaceful.
(cut into my reading time to boot).The third stage was the worse: I didn't feel I was getting better.
5.5 miles.Thank You you Iris...and my new toy...*audible*!!!
I can't wait to go walking again --and find another book to listen to as I 'practice' walking with my new ankle.THANK YOU SO MUCH, IRIS!
(it was like that for me a couple of times).
I'm not sure I'm qualified to write much of a review on this book, as I was never an adolescent lesbian.
Through the help of a teacher, she finds guidance in her love, but one thing leads to another, and when Liza and her girlfriend are caught between the sheets at the lesbian teacher's house, wheels are set in motion by society that end in somewhat maddening circumstances.The beauty of this book is its focus on the teenage crush and how it develops into love.
The fact that the relationship subject surrounds a lesbian couple, only emphasizes that orientation has nothing to do with it.
This book blows me away, mainly because it contains an honest exploration of emotions teens still face today - and it was published 13 years before I was born.The story focuses on Liza, a budding architect who aspires to attend MIT, and her growing relationship with Annie, an aspiring singer who wants to go to Berkeley.
However, their bond intensifies at a rapid pace, and they soon must figure out their feelings for one another before external factors their them apart.Nancy Garden's writing felt so honest in Annie On My Mind.
I wanted more development from Liza's family, from Garden's writing (which felt a little clunky at times), and from Liza and Annie's relationship as a whole.
"Have you ever felt really close to someone? So close that you can't understand why you and the other person have two separate bodies, two separate skins? I think it was Sunday when that feeling began." There is a reason that this novel was so groundbreaking upon its release in 1982. It is utterly beautiful and devastating. The teenage love story between Liza and Annie is nothing short of moving. It starts out so simply. Two girls that form a gorgeously written connection that blossoms so natur
"Have you ever felt really close to someone?
So close that you can't understand why you and the other person have two separate bodies, two separate skins?
The teenage love story between Liza and Annie is nothing short of moving.
Two girls that form a gorgeously written connection that blossoms so naturally and easily into an all encompassing innocent love that wrongly threatens the world around them.
And this is one of the most beautifully written love stories I have read.
Don't you know that it's love you're talking about?
Love is the victor.
Annie on My Mind is the story of two seventeen-year-old girls whose chance meeting at a museum and their blossoming friendship slowly turns to first love, self-discovery and the struggle to stand up and be proud of who and what they are.
Annie on My Mind is a beautiful tale of two girls, both wiser than their years, slowly beginning to come to terms with their emotions.Although it is often said that this is a “lesbian love story with a happy ending” and there is the promise of hope and the relationship flourishing, on the evidence of the attitudes of the era, I think that the optimism should be a little more reserved.
I'm sure there must have been though given it's 35 years (!!!) since Annie on My Mind was first published.And I think that's one of the greatest things about this book.
It's not often that someone defends us so fiercely in books and it really feels like a very much needed warm hug at the end of a hard day.
You can tell while reading that the book isn't new.
And teen sapphic girls can still see themselves in the characters and can still take courage in the characters' journey to self-love & acceptance.
Because like the dedication says, it's a book for all of us.
That made me mad; it was as if whoever wrote the article didn't know that gay people actually love each other.
Liza and Annie are only 17 year old when they fall in love, and this whole time, despite all their fears and insecurities and obstacles they faced, they refuse to believe that their feelings were anything other than wonderful.
Liza and Annie's feelings for each other were pure magic, and they knew it.On a separate note, I'm deeply sad that I can't read a whole book about Isabelle Stevenson and Katherine Widmer's relationship.
you know, this is just not doing it for me right now and I'm 45% of the way through. I don't know, it's fine, I think this is just not my genre of book and I was only reading it because of the lesbian classic thing? possibly will be returned to someday.I will say, though, that this quote stuck out to me: "What struck me most, though, was that, in that whole long article, the word 'love' wasn't used even once. That made me mad; it was as if whoever wrote the article didn't know that gay people ac

Fool me, I should have done my research.The author was apparently a lesbian herself and reading about the history of this book broke my heart a little (they banned it from schools and burned it publicly in a town somewhere - I don't remember exactly and I don't feel like looking it up again because I'm not ready to cry again).I was so surprised to see how well female homosexuality was treated and this is totally both a "book to educate straight people on the fact that gay people are normal" (I'm paraphrasing the author) and a book for young sapphic girls to see themselves represented and learn that it's okay and that they can get their happy ending.Yes, this book has a happy ending and it killed the tragic lesbian trope before it was invented.Besides its importance in lgbtq+ literature, this was also one of the best and most naturally developed romances I've ever read.
i didn't read this book until i was in my mid-twenties, though it is a book written for a teen audience.
it was published in 1982, but i never even heard about it until i was in a queer women's book club in dc.
we decided to read this as one of our selections (as well as "are you there, god?
it's me, margaret.") it is truly a beautiful story and perfect for teens struggling with their sexuality.
this book captures that but also reminds us that without those experiences, we wouldn't be the rockin' women we are today.
I think one of the things about this novel that struck me, even considering the simple structure of the overarching plot and contrasting elements that might strike a familiar chord in terms of the antagonism the protagonists face, was that it provides a sharp eye into Liza's coming to terms with herself and sentiments.
I wonder, perhaps, that this novel could've even delved deeper into exploring the complexity of those prejudices and knocking them down, but I think for the story that was told, it does very well.One of the most important themes I've found in young adult literature is the establishment of identity.
If you’ll have a starter pack for F/F books I think this one is a must. A safe choice. F/F-YA is very delicate genre especially if you’re just staring to figure things out. A lot of FF/YA can be a bit traumatic for me. But for this one, everything is just so light and balanced.Re-reading this for the nth time and like the very first time I read it, it always makes me smile.Now with the new edition. :))Highly recommend.
Thankfully that went away after a while.More importantly, Annie bothered me.
I realized the metaphor behind the Shakespeare, and eventually the two of them (Annie in particular) stopped doing it.
It didn't take me (too) long to know where that particular climax was headed, but it didn't matter.
I loved Annie and Liza together.
I loved Liza.
I do feel that maybe a few things went ignored, like Sally's character and transition, but I don't feel it affected the the integrity of the story too much.Despite being able to predict a few things, I never really knew where this story would conclude.
A bit of spoiler and lots of complaining about people.
-> (view spoiler)[ Some people in this book are so close-minded.
It’s not like we plan to destroy the world.
I like these people.
(hide spoiler)]Phew, feel a bit better.I am probably in a foul mood right now, sorry.
And to be honest, personally, i dont like the writing style.
Like you know what will happened.
All the time during reading this book, i just can’t wait for the story go back to the present and continue from there.
It just kind of ruined my mood of enjoying the story.
3.5 "Healthy teen relationship rep" Starsyes, I placed this in my classic shelf, what are you gonna do about that? Lesbian classic lit.RTC
It's Annie and me they're all sitting around here like cardboard people judging; it's Annie and me. And what we did that they think is wrong, when you pare it all down, was fall in love. -"If you two remember nothing else from all this," Ms. Widmer said, "remember that. Please. Don't - don't punish yourselves for people's ignorant reactions to what we all are.""Don't let ignorance win," said Ms. Stevenson. "Let love." There's one simple reason why I put off reading Annie on My Mind for so long
And what we did that they think is wrong, when you pare it all down, was fall in love.
Don't - don't punish yourselves for people's ignorant reactions to what we all are.""Don't let ignorance win," said Ms. Stevenson.
There's one simple reason why I put off reading Annie on My Mind for so long and that is because I knew what to expect.
The reason why I still continue to read these books is simple: As furious as they make me, they also make me grateful.
There's a reason why this book is considered a classic and why even after so many years, people continue to read it.
I did not realise this book would be so difficult to read.
It was a very prominent book in helping young gay people in the '80s, '90s, '00s, and now the '10s accept their sexuality.
The writing was full of cliches and it's definitely not the kind of book you would read for the writing.
Because the novel kind of reads like a diary, the readers get a very good insight into Liza's mind.
This allows the readers to understand her reasoning behind her decisions.I don't know if many lesbian young adult romance books have come before this one, but this one is considered one of the first.
Annie on My Mind is a beautiful love story about a friendship that blooms into love for two young women who are from different sides of the track.
I read this novel for the first time as a high school student in 1999, then again as an adult in 2016.
Over the years, the story has not lost its beauty, its meaning, or even its relevance in today's society.
Even as our society continues to progress, Annie on My Mind will be our reminder of where we were before, where we are today, and where we need to be tomorrow.
Two nice, intelligent seventeen years old girls, Liza and Annie, meet and fall in love.
There are not sex scenes in the novel, but the reader knows there is sex between them.What really works well in their relationship (and how it's described) is a mixt of friendship and spontaneity.I'm a big fan of friendship inside a love relationship, and Liza and Annie keep supporting each others as friends in every phase of their story.And then they are seventeen years old girls, they behave as such, doing silly and childish things among more serious, adult attitudes.
The two adult teachers, who generously help the two girls, sharing their past experience and problems, are wonderful secundary characters.Liza falls into a crisis and for some months she has to deal with herself, leaving Annie alone.
I was attending a homophobic high school at the time (they wouldn't allow a Gay-Straight Alliance club, or even a discussion about sexual orientation in health class), so the novel provided an escape for me.I remember sneaking into the library to read it at a corner.
About a couple years later, I bought a copy from a used book store(I was so nervous, although the cashier didn't seem to notice.) Right now it is a battered copy, and I'd read it a few times every year (mostly my favorite parts.) It inspired me to write LGBTQ fiction.
This book will always be in my bookshelf because of how it changed me.This is a beautiful lesbian love story with a hopeful ending.
“What matters is the truth of loving, of two people finding each other. That’s what's important, and don't you forget it.” I really wish I’d read this book earlier. I definitely still appreciated it as an adult, but I feel like this book could have been incredibly important for me as a younger teen. Being able to read a book about two girls in high school falling in love, a story about two girls realizing they like girls…a story like this one would have made a huge difference in my life. It too
Being able to read a book about two girls in high school falling in love, a story about two girls realizing they like girls…a story like this one would have made a huge difference in my life.
It took me a long, long time to figure out my own queerness, and a lot of that was due to the complete lack of any f/f relationships in the books I read, the movies I watched…the stories I was told in any form, really.This book makes me grateful for how far things have come in the last 35 years.
It reminds me of the ways in which my life is easier thanks to the struggles that the generations of queer people before me have had to endure.
The girls come from different backgrounds - Liza attends a relatively sheltered, private school currently struggling with financial difficulties, while Annie attends public school and is faced with drugs, violence, and other social problems public schools must deal with both then and now.
As the girls' relationship develops, the plot becomes more involved in Liza's role as student council president and her school's struggle with a fund-raising campaign.
Liza and Annie begin to accept the true direction of their friendship, and of course, as other people become aware, controversy surfaces.
Could their situation adversely affect a similar relationship between two teachers in Liza's private school?
Omg this book was amazing. I'm still crying over it, goddamn __________________________________Finally getting to read this book with this cutie!!
Maybe I'm too picky or I've read too many amazing books, but I just can't give this book more than 2,5. 3 is too much for it.Maybe it's because it's more for teens than people my age and I'm too old. Maybe 1980s it was great and so, but definitely not anymore. It's too slow and naive, I just couldn't believe it, I was longing for this book to end.I really feel bad about giving this book 2, but I can't help myself. I know it's not the book, it's me... Sorry
I got to read how things were back then, even when I knew things were more difficult for the LGBT+ community, reading a book on the subject gives me new points of view and ways of analyzing it.
The relationship between Liza and Annie is so cute, so pure, I really was craving for them to have a happy ending; they deserve nothing but good things.
I actually think I fell in love with Annie...
Also, one thing I really loved and think is important to remark is how fucking important literature and books in general are in this story.
I read this for Banned Books Week and this book was so wonderful and pure and beautiful and oh god, I loved it so much. 10/10 recommend. Sad that parents literally burned copies of the book because it depicted lesbian characters
I was provided an ARC via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.Annie on My Mind is a classic.
I’ve heard about it for years and was not disappointed in the least.Our main character is Liza, 17.
She meets Annie by chance and they fall for each other.
But the story is set in 1982 and I don’t think they even knew what homophobia was back then.I really loved this story.
It was a quick read but still made me feel so much.
The way Liza was treated by her school director was horrifying, and so unfair, both times.I also loved the way the story was told.This is a must read.
