https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2118577.The_Eye_Book
If the eyes are the windows to the soul, then these characters have some HUGE windows. This is a simple story about a boy and his rabbit and eyes. They see things. Imagine that. I like the soft, round art. This story is for young kids. There isn’t much here.The kids loved it. Both of them. They thought it was cute and had fun going through the story. They gave it 4 stars.
A very nice beginning read book. Great for students to practice reading.
All about eyes17 November 2012 Hey, this book is so simple that I can translate most of it into German without going to a dictionary.Das Auge BuchAuge, Augen.Meine Augen, Meine Augen.Seine Augen, Seine Augen.Zwinke Auge, Zwinke Auge.Rosa Auge, rosa Auge.Meine Augen Seiht, er Augen Seiht.Ich sehe ihm, er seiht mich.Unsere Augen sehen blau, unsere Augen sehen rott.Sie sehen ein Vogel, Sie sehen ein Bett.Sie sehen den Sonne, Sie sehen den Mond.Sie sehen eine Gabel, ein Messer, und einen Loffel.Sie
All about eyes17 November 2012	Hey, this book is so simple that I can translate most of it into German without going to a dictionary.Das Auge BuchAuge, Augen.Meine Augen, Meine Augen.Seine Augen, Seine Augen.Zwinke Auge, Zwinke Auge.Rosa Auge, rosa Auge.Meine Augen Seiht, er Augen Seiht.Ich sehe ihm, er seiht mich.Unsere Augen sehen blau, unsere Augen sehen rott.Sie sehen ein Vogel, Sie sehen ein Bett.Sie sehen den Sonne, Sie sehen den Mond.Sie sehen eine Gabel, ein Messer, und einen Loffel.Sie sehen eine Madchen, Sie sehen einen Mensch, ein Junge, ein Pferd, und einen Alte Zinn Dose.
This is an excellent earlyreader preschool book. The pictures are bright and engaging with the words at beginner level. I guess on average, most kids will have the book memorized after 2-3 reads. Books like this are essential if you want your children to have a head start in reading.
I hate this book.
Cute book....
Summary:This is a beginning readers book.
Each page has a different thing he sees.
This is a "Dr. Seuss type" book, therefore it contains many rhyming words.Evaluation: There are not many words per page.
On the other hand, it could be used as a great go to book for teachers to tell their students to grab when they are finished with their assignments.Teaching Tip:This book contains rhyming words, therefore it could be used as a hook in a rhyming lesson in Kindergarten.
Then, the students could make their own book page to add to The Eye Book.
Synopsis: ""My eyes see.
His eyes see.
A big-eyed boy and a pink-eyed rabbit cavort through the book, seeing everything there is to see: a girl, a horse, an old tin can, the sun, the moon--even pink underpants (which makes them both blush).
This is a friendly introduction to the wide, wondrous world of seeing and reading."My Review: This is a very cute book!
Munchkin loved the rhyming and the pictures and kept pointing at the rabbit, in fact he kept turning the book over when we finished and opened it to read again.
I like the rhythm of the book and the fact that it rhymes but they aren't crazy tongue twisters.
This is a Dr. Seuss book that has been written purposely for the prereader audience.
The illustrations target each vocabulary word to make it easier to remember the new words.
The illustrations are softer than Seuss' style yet contain plenty of Seuss humor and fun.I love the ease of learning new words this book offers.
It encourages a high level of success for every new reader.
I recommend this book for any prereader as well as any early reader due to its high success factor.
This is a great children's beginner book!
The illustrations in this book are very bright, and cute.
I also liked what was said throughout the book, it involved how important our eyes are to us everyday.
We use our eyes to see trees, people, and beautiful colors.
This book really made me thankful to have my eye sight.
I would use this book in my classroom to help teach my students how to learn how to read.
And I would also use this book as a lesson to my students on how to take care of their eye.
The eye book.
We got this book from the library - I'd never actually read it as a child.I started to read it to my son, and he insisted he was going to read the entire book to me instead.
He didn't need my help on a single word and he was SO excited to have done it all by himself.
Great book for early readers!The story is simple and similar to the nose book.
Actually, my son even giggled at the ending because it reminded him about the Chicken a la king from the nose book (that we couldn't smell without noses).
This book is written by Dr. Suess as Theo LeSieg.
It is a book all about eye.
It teaches kids that our eyes are different from other animals eyes, but we all see the same things.
We see the same shapes anyway, not all animals see in the same color spectrum.
Our eyes see colors like blue and red, they see far and they see near, etc.
I like the illustrations in this book because they are bright colored, but the main focus is clearly the eyes, as the eyes are the biggest feature on both the boy and the rabbit throughout the book.
The eyes have it in this book from the same Dr. Seuss publishing team that gave us The Foot Book. A rabbit helps a boy as well as the little reader to appreciate the eyes that see, and that see all sorts of wonderful things! Blind people may not be able to enjoy this one without feeling sad, so I understand. Seeing isn't always believing, but it's good to take care of your orbs. It takes vision to help kids learn and love life. All you have to do is look look, see see.
Dr. Seuss/Theo Le Sieg rhyming for young kids at its very best.The new illustrations by Joe Mathieu really work well.
This is one of the super simple Dr. Seuss books that I don't believe I ever read when I was younger. The illustrations by Joe Mathieu are ultra-cute. The boy and the rabbit each have large, bright eyes which make the eyes the focus of each illustration - as it should be in a book all about eyes and the things they see.
Who all has eyes? What can eyes see? This is a fun book for younger ages when they are learning about their eyes. I think children will love this book. It's an easy read for younger ages and I think they would love reading it because they get to follow a bunny around and see what the bunny sees along with what the little boy sees as well. This is a good read.
This book feels much different from the Dr. Seuss canon. It lacks the creativity and imagination of his other works. And there is nothing memorable or quotable from it. However, I found it a useful teaching tool for my two year old daughter to learn more about eyes. Other than a teaching tool, we probably won't revisit this book, and I doubt it will become a classic in our family.
Dr. Seuss captures the hearts and imaginations of both children and adults alike in yet another fun book about body parts. This one being about the eyes features an adorable rabbit and one cute boy. You learn about all the neat things you can see with your eyes.
A very easy to read book with cute illustrations and just a few words per page. Great book for when you are teaching the sense of sight. A quick book for children to read to feel the accomplishment of finishing a book.
This has been one of our favorites for toddlers, and Preston's just discovered it! Typical Dr. Seuss rhymes and fun illustrations. (Theo LeSeig is Theodore Giesel (spelled backwards) and also Dr. Seuss.)
The boys didn't like it. When I was about to read it a second time they asked if we could just return it to the library. A little too simple for them, but it probably would be a good book for them to learn how to read.
I really like these Bright and Early Books for Beginners for my Kindergartener, who is just learning to read. The words are simple, repetitive, and often rhyming, which helps her to pick them up more quickly, but the pictures are cute and colorful enough to capture her attention.
It is so fun because it says the same words a lot of times! It is funny to me. I like the book. It is not a scary book. It is a funny books. It has lots of words. Go check it out at your library! By Megan
My little one loved this book, and I can't wait to read it to him again when he's old enough to know what an eye is and tell me all the things he sees in the world around him. Love the illustrations that look like they were done with Prismacolor markers!
A great sight word book, using simple words. The illustrations are good to use for some more difficult words, such as airplanes. And obviously a cute rhyme to go throughout the book, since it was written by dr Seuss.
Fun! And I just learned that Geisel wrote as LeSieg when he was author but not illustrator. I should've known that. I digress. This easy reader is a fun collection of eye-related material. Lively.
As with many books written by Dr. Seuss that are targeted for kids even younger than those intended to read his more popular works, this one actually ended up boring me because it wasn't targeted for me. I see this pattern with most works written under his pen name as Theo LeSieg.
Similar to The Tooth Book, The Eye Book is everything Dr. Seuss fans expect in one of his easy readers. The Eye Book encourages us to take a fresh look at the world around us and enjoy it for what it is.
Very easy read for students who are just beginning. Cute characters and rhyming make it enjoyable to read. The sentences get slightly longer as the book goes on, but most sentences have about four words.
❝ So we say Hurraaaa for eyes!. ❞Bien, este libro se me hizo muy, muy simple, creo que este viene de una serie de los cinco sentidos. Y bueno, lo que más me gustó fueron las ilustraciones tan tiernas que contiene, son de lo mejor.
