https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16375.Jeeves_and_the_Feudal_Spirit
This time, besides the darts tournament and the 'Milady's Boudoir' woes, there will be of course the misunderstandings between young people in love, police chases from 'garrish' night clubs named either "The Startled Shrimp" or "The Mottled Oyster" followed by an appearance before a severe judge, a detective novel called "The Mystery of the Pink Crayfish", a spine broken in five places (the threat of), a cosh, a valuable pearl necklace, the cuisine of Anatole the volatile French chef, a visit from Bertie's old Nemesis, Roderick Spode and the by-now-expected-conflict between master and servant on the subject of fashion.
What, what?!Jeeves and the Feudal Spirit, aka What Ho, Jeeves, is a bit different from others in the Wooster/Jeeves line in that it reads like a play.
In my case, it listens like a play, because I ingested this audiobook-style.
Jeeves and the Feudal Spirit turned out to be a cracking good read!It's no different than any of the other 101 books (or however many there are) on the dynamic duo in this series.
I attribute this to the use of about three actors who've voiced the Bertie character in other Wodehouse books.
Then she told me the most wonderful thing – she said she started reading it and found she had finished three pages before she realised she had really been reading any of it at all.
If these books were written today I guess people would talk about ‘repressed homosexuality’ – but in the world Wodehouse has created there is a kind of innocence that makes such thoughts seem – what?
Yes, think of children in the bodies of adults and you are somewhere close to the world Wodehouse has created – although, even that view is too simple.I would love to study his comedy more closely.
Bertie is growing a moustache, and Jeeves doesn't like it.Bertie is pissed.
Jeeves does not object to David Niven's moustache, then why the fuss about his.
Jeeves says:"Mr. Niven's moustache is very becoming to him."This time Bertie is determined to hold on - but the problem is that Florence Craye, who has turned to novel-writing of late, also thinks the moustache is fascinating: thus inviting the wrath of Stilton Cheesewright, her fiance, who considers it a cheap trick by Bertie to steal his girl.Nighttime escapades in nightclubs with Florence (who is collecting material for her new novel), the presence of a Roderick Spode who no longer fears the mention of "Eulalie" (see The Code of the Woosters) and Aunt Dahlia up to her usual mad capers ensures Bertie has his plate full.
- Jeeves, who forgets differences and acts in true feudal spirit.
There was so much which didn’t work in that novel: the lack of Bertram Wooster, the third person narration in lieu of Wooster, B; the ostentatious 1950s setting, the unhelpful glimpses inside the hitherto imperial Jeeves mind.
This isn’t the best Jeeves and Wooster novel one could possibly find (Wodehouse set himself extraordinarily high standards elsewhere), but definitely this is a novel which will not only leave you chuckling, but make you feel decidedly gay and with a cheery song in your heart.“’Who was the man who sat with a sword dangling over him, suspended by a hair, wondering how long it was going to be before it dropped and gave him a very nasty flesh wound?’She had me there.

"'Did you ever read Spindthrift?' I asked, retrieving the soap.'I skimmed through it, sir.''What did you think of it?
Go on, Jeeves, don't be coy.
The word begins with an l.''Well, sir, I would not go so far as to apply the adjective which I fancy you have in mind, but it seemed to me a somewhat immature production lacking in significant form.
I read Ring for Jeeves shortly before Jeeves and the Feudal Spirit; while the first has Plum on a very rare off day, the latter sees him squarely on top of the wave of his singular craftsmanship.
A jolly good book this!
Jeeves and the Feudal spirit is a balm to the soul much like a well made English tea on a cold morning.Bertie Wooster wears a mustache that Jeeves does not approve.
He is in mortal danger of being affianced to Florence Craye who wishes to shape him.
Oh and also the slight danger of being pummeled to pulp by a pumpkin headed cop to who Florence was engaged.
Aunt Agatha is in trouble and needs all the help she can get.
All while Jeeves has to be away.Bertie must fend for himself.
Many disastrous and hilarious complications ensue, until Jeeves returns.
Jonathan Cecil again excels in this audiobook narration of Bertie Wooster's entanglement with Florence Craye, Stilton Cheesewright and his Aunt Dahlia's attempt to sell her magazine The Lady's Boudoir to Mr. Trotter. To add to the fun, Lord Sidcup (formerly known as Spode) appears at Uncle Tom's invitation to look at Dahlia's pearl necklace, causing consternation and confusion.Cecil's voice for the regular cast of characters was as always wonderful but his voice for Mr. Trotter, a Yorkshire newspaper magnate, wavered a little -- sometimes more northern than others.
Stilton’s jealousy gets a proper workout since, not only does he fear that Florence still has feelings for her ex-fiancé Bertie, but Percy Gorringe, a playwright who is converting Florence’s novel for the stage, seems to be mooning around after her rather a lot too.Meantime, Aunt Dahlia is trying to offload her magazine Milady’s Boudoir to a Liverpudlian newspaper magnate, Mr Trotter, so he and his social-climbing wife are in residence too as she hopes the wonders of Anatole’s cooking will soften him up and get her a good price.
Nothing like a quick few pages of Jeeves and Wooster to get rid of those Monday (or Tuesday) blues. In this one we find Wooster growing a moustache, getting betrothed (again) and getting his spine broken (again), and Jeeves rescuing him from all three. Absolutely delightful read.
Reading Wodehouse is pure bliss.
In his own words “I believe there are two ways of writing novels.
It's probably because you were born that way." "For a humorous novel you've got to have a scenario, and you've got to test it so that you know where the comedy comes in, where the situations come in … splitting it up into scenes (you can make a scene of almost anything) and have as little stuff in between as possible."Bandings castle and its characters is one the best of his creations.
Whilst Jeeves presents a decidedly cold shoulder to Berties' newly grown facial furniture, novelist and ex-flame Florence Craye is rather taken by it.
Not so her current fiance, the hulking, pumpkin-headed G.D'arcy 'Stilton' Cheesewright, a combustible chap 'who could give Othello a couple of bisques and be dormy one at the eighteenth'.At the same time Bertie is touched up for the loan of a £1,000 pounds by one Percy Gorringe.
Percy, as well as sporting an offensive set of side whiskers, has adapted a book by the imperious Florence, with whom he is also hopelessly in love.
Cheesewright and Gorringe too.It's got Jeeves, it's got Wooster, it's written by Wodehouse.
Another entertaining chapter in the life of Bertie Wooster and his man, Jeeves.Just read some (any) of these tales of England's finest as they drift through their lives of leisure and inherited wealth.What's that you say, "I don't think I will find it terribly amusing or interesting"?
G. Wodehouse was a master craftsman and in these tales we find him at his finest.
I like a good book on politics or cosmology or religion as much as the next chap, but one must have the frisson of life along with the chaff.Do yourself an enormous favor and read this book (and several of its brethren.)
Another one that draws the guffaws from a disgruntled girl. :) The greatest complaint I can make about these books relates to their titles: the notion of Jeeves' "feudal spirit" is referenced in other works, so it doesn't really help to distinguish this novel from the others. It might better have been called "Bertie grows a moustache" or "A lot of preamble about a darts tournament we never even get to witness", or "How Aunt Dahlia tried to sell off her magazine because she was tired of always begging for cash". A very funny book.
3.5 StarsVery enjoyable, but lacking a certain something found in the best Jeeves & Wooster novels. Not quite as laugh out loud funny. More of an occasional chortle. Good to see Jeeves back with Bertie where he belongs though. Bertie, not Jeeves, should always be the main attraction, but the more time the two spend together playing off each other, the better.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٢موقع القراءة : بريطانيا
While Jeeves has been on his annual holiday, Bertie has grown a mustache.
She had come upon the idea of hiring a top-tier female author to write an article for the paper, a way of "salting the mine" as she puts it; but to pay this author, she hocked her pearl necklace, replacing it with a fake.
She needs the sale proceeds to redeem the real necklace.Convoluted, yes?
Engagements on, engagements off, coshes, knighthoods, Anatole (will he never be safe from the machinations of covetous would-be employers?) - and of course, only Jeeves can make everything come out right, causing Bertie to shave the mustache in gratitude.
Jeeves saves the day...again.2018 - A book of your choice
The weedy butterfly gets saved by the Butler!
Orwell had also made the case for the defence of English cooking, so he was used to championing lost causes.
That Florence will be untied from Bertie once Jeeves gets into the psychology of the individual will not surprise anyone but how and to whom she becomes engaged to will.And so despite my reservations about Spode, Wodehouse manages in to turn in another classic Wooster prose.
I read them all so long ago and enjoyed them so much that I have given them all 5 stars.
As I re-read them I will adjust the stars accordingly, if necessary, and add a proper review.When I first discovered P.
I'm sure that through this great site I will joyfully find at least a few I have not read and be able to track them down.My records only began in 1982, so I do not have a note of any I read before then.
I’m sure I will enjoy re-reading them.
Gosh, folks, with some of the plot "summaries" here it's hardly necessary to read the book.
How about letting us discover what happens for ourselves?
But one doesn't read a J&W for the plot.
It's the language, which is as wonderful as always.
The plot is full of twists, but we expect them so we can't call them surprises.Jeeves is quite disappointing here, since he relies repeatedly on the knowledge available from his fellow butlers.
Without that, most of the J&W books wouldn't have a plot.
Not one of the better Jeeves stories, but still jolly good.
How lucky was I to find P. G. at an early age? Revisiting Bertie and Jeeves and the crowd is even better read aloud. I've discovered that I must have walked around with both English and French dictionaries back then. Some of this obviously went over my young head that I find hilarious now. No wonder I developed a strange sense of humor that has made people wonder about me for 50 years.
Hilarious! Typical PGW!
One of my favorite parts of all these Jeeves books is the banter between Bertie and his aunts and this edition is full of the stuff. All the commentary on mustaches is especially relevant living in the shadow of BYU. These books bring me so much joy and I'm always bucked up by them. It is with a heavy heart though that I near the completion of the series. Only three left to go, but as Jeeves always says, "Into each life some rain must fall."
This is the third book in a series of Jeeves and Wooster novels. The first is the “The Code of the Wooster’s.” The second, “Joy in the Morning” is considered Wodehouse’s masterpiece and is listed as number 66 on a list of the greatest books ever written in the English language. For me it was joy in the morning, afternoon and evening to read these three books in succession and observe how the characters and situations flow through all three books.
Any novel that begins this way is sure to be a fun read: "As I sat in the bath-tub, soaping a meditative foot and singing, if I remember correctly, 'Pale Hands I Loved Beside the Shalimar', it would be deceiving my public to say that I was feeling boomps-a-daisy."
I'm not even going to try to review a Wodehouse novel up in this joint.
Another excellent Wodehouse, though I will have to say I am beginning to detect hints of a pattern. Still laugh out loud funny as ever.
