https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/822.The_Confusion
I must have been out of my mind to think that I could write a trilogy set in the late 17th and early 18th century that used three main fictional characters to explore the political and religious intrigue of the time as well as the development of the first stages of modern science and economics.
Now, here’s what I need to get to in the second book:(*) Eliza needs to be essentially held hostage by the French nobility who know she spied for William, but they’ll still need her financial talents to help fund their war efforts.(*) I want to use that set-up to have Eliza run a complicated financial scheme to get revenge for what’s been done to her.(*) Since I flashed forward to an older Daniel Waterhouse at the beginning of Quicksilver, the readers will know that he ultimately survived having the stone.
“When a thing such as wax, or gold, or silver, turns liquid from heat, we say that it has fused,” Eliza said to her son, “and when such liquids run together and mix, we say they are con-fused.”- Neal Stephenson, The ConfusionPart Two of Stephenson's massive Baroque Cycle consists of Books 4 and 5 (Part One, if it isn't obvious, consisted of Books 1-3).
This volume continues with the major characters: Daniel Waterhouse, Eliza, Bob Shaftoe, & Jack Shaftoe, along with a host of other fantastic characters both real (Newton, Leibniz, Louis IV, Pepys) and imagined.
Usually, when Newton or Leibniz are discoursing, Stephenson is waxing philosophic about atoms, thinking machines, or currency.
I feel like a water-skier being pulled by a boat--sections have pulled me along thrillingly with wake-jumping stunts and all.
I can't wait, but I still have System of the World to go.Stephenson is able to simply relate, often something like a Socratic dialogue, descriptions of complicated material, glossing over just enough detail to not lose you but including enough that the uninitiated still understand important concepts--encryption in Cryptonomicon; the workings of computers in most of his novels; markets, trade, and financial mechanisms in this trilogy.
Some Wikipedia surfing is in my future--I am especially curious what parts of the novel are history and what parts are artistic license.

The Confusion is a typical second book of an atypical trilogy, and that is not at all a criticism.
When it comes to Neal Stephenson's Baroque Cycle, I am not sure which of these two models The Confusion follows, but it is, at least, one of them.
Which is precisely what makes The Baroque Cycle so "original" for today's audiences.
Anyone who loves a good yarn or just plain loves books should read the Cycle and revel in its sheer audacious brilliance.But don't tell me it has never been done before.
knjiga je mrvicu slabija od prethodne, ali i dalje urnebesna, nevjerojatna, sumanuta i na trenutke mučna, kao vožnja na rollercoasteru. 4.5
I should have been warned when I picked it up the first time after having finished reading a novel written by somebody with a more poetic sense of language and thinking, "Wow, this is ugly writing." I was continually frustrated by the long passages where plot points are explained by the characters to each other (and clunky dialog for that matter), where characters seem to have no inner life (for all the alleged intelligence of the characters, you never see somebody wondering, or imagining, or experimenting, or figuring things out for themselves; not even the ones who end up explaining things to others), and where there is no passion expressed for anything (not sex, nor research, nor discovery).As a discussion of some interesting concepts about math or financial dealing, it's not bad.
Druhý díl se odehrává na ploše nějakých dvaceti let a sleduje dvě linie, dva hlavní hrdiny (v podstatě to jsou dvě knihy v jedné, které se ovlivňují jen mírně), takže autor dost často základní situace prostě přeskakuje.
V jedné chvíli vidíme hrdiny v určité situace, v druhé už je někde úplně jinde, kupříkladu v zajetí a jen se zpětně vysvětlí, že je mezitím přepadli piráti a prodali do otroctví.
Pár akčních scén tam je, ale stejně se kniha víc věnuje odborným rozpravám.A i když to vypadá spíš, že tu knihu odstřeluju, tak se mi Zmatení dost líbilo.
Jak mě moc nevzalo Stephensonovo sci-fi Seveneves, ani čistý thriller REAMDE, tak tohle si mě zase získalo.
Fantastic book!
As long as _Quicksilver_, this book feels shorter.
There is less natural philosophy and more swashbuckling (including a complete circumnavigation of the globe).
There's a bit about the alchemical properties of King Solomon's gold and some pre-Enlightenment chemical engineering.
Additionally, there is a significant amount of banking, as many of the events in the book orbit the disintegration of the traditional feudal land economy of Europe and the rise to dominance of a market economy driven by international trade.
We also are clued in to the conceptualization and creation of the first computing machines.
Deeper into the wordy quagmire that is Neal Stephenson’s Baroque Cycle. As with  Quicksilver , this volume contains a considerable dose of magical moments dissolved in a nearly impenetrable sea of overdone gibberish. It’s brilliant gibberish, but not brilliant enough to make this book shine the way I typically expect from Stephenson. While enhancing the Baroque Cycle’s thematic strengths and moving the saga forward in promising ways, The Confusion is ultimately every bit as languorous as Quicksi
While enhancing the Baroque Cycle’s thematic strengths and moving the saga forward in promising ways, The Confusion is ultimately every bit as languorous as Quicksilver.This volume neglects the Baroque Cycle’s most interesting plot thread––Stephenson’s fictionalized account of the intellectual development and personal squabbles of 17th century Europe’s Enlightenment figures––for nearly 500 pages.
Save a decidedly moving scene in which he brings a floundering Isaac Newton to his senses, Daniel’s narrative is largely put on hold here.Our consolation is that the lives of Jack Shaftoe and Eliza of Qwghlm become more complex (if not always more interesting).

Co se týká Zmatení, oproti prvnímu dílu je v něm daleko více cestování, obchodu a ekonomie, nechybí ale ani humor, dobrodružství a intriky.S Jackem se podíváte daleko za hranice Evropy, ten je tu koneckonců na to dobrodružství, Eliza vás uvede do tajů mezinárodního bankovnictví, což je zase její parketa, a pokud by vám to bylo málo, je tu pořád i Daniel Waterhouse, Isaac Newton, Gottfried Leibnitz...Četl jsem to sice před pár lety v originále, ale byl to tenkrát těžký boj, přece jen to není žádná brožurka...
Pořádně jsem si to užil až teď, a doufám, že brzy vyjde i překlad třetího dílu.
Events begin some time (years for Jack, months for Eliza) after we left them in Quicksilver, and that proves to be something of a problem – after enjoying the previous novel more than I had been expecting to, I almost gave up on The Confusion because of the incredibly clunky way Stephenson catches up on what happened in the time that has passed.Stephenson is often praised as master of the infodump, but what we get here are a series of extremely clumsy dialogues that would have been cause of much eye-rolling even in a debut novel, but coming from someone who already has several novels under his belt and has shown that he can do better this is extremely annoying.
There were some fantastic moments in The Confusion, full of action, suspense, and surprise, but I felt like, to get to them, I had to read through chapters and chapters of descriptions--nautical details, explanations of economic theory, or complete prose maps of cities from the arches of famous monuments to the consistency of the gravel streets to the filth of the underground sewers--that slowed my reading to a halting and tedious speed that could only be compared to the speed of a frail woman wading through tar in a heavy velvet ball gown.
The infamous Bobby Shaftoe makes his first appearance.Then in 2003 came Quicksilver (the first volume of a trilogy, The Baroque Cycle.) These books are set in the 1600s.
Eliza has her tale of woes and triumphs centered in the court of Louis XIV; alternating chapters follow Bobby Shaftoe and his pirate adventures from Spain to Mexico to the Middle East to India and back to England.Though the volume is packed with action, adventure, sorrow, and history, it seemed just a tad slow compared to Stephenson's earlier books.
This tis truly a Brick of a Book, as was Quicksilver.
This book makes me wish I know more Math, more Science, more History, More Economics and more Languages.
But, I think at this time I am merely TIRED from this book.
ALL of his books seem to be bricks!) I think the next of his I shall read is Cryptonomican.
(A book of this title is referred to in these volumes)Back to Jack, who tis mid Pacific somewhere or the other as I sit here!Zounds, yet one more time!
This is the second volume in Stephenson's Baroque cycle.At the end of the last book, Half Cocked Jack was a Galley Slave off the Barbary Coast, Eliza was making a run with her baby from the continent to London, and Daniel Waterhouse had Joined the Royal Court and taken a Mistress.This book picks up several years later.
Eliza is captured and brought back to France, Daniel's Mistress died of small pox, and Jack has been cured of the Syph by some sort of extraordinarily high fever, although it has left him with some sort of amnesia.Jack joins a cabal of galley slaves with a plot to make themselves free.
I sometimes think Neal Stephenson novels are fit only for college professors, especially business professors, with a need for astronomic levels of excitement, but since this category includes *me* I love this series.
The form of the novels reminds me of a baroque and convoluted Candide - a picaresque in which philosophical speculation trades places back and forth with big-time all-star adventure - burning ships, mistaken identities, kidnappings, mounds and piles of gold, murderous Jesuits, etc.
The science makes the adventure more fun (a detailed chapter about how phosphorus is made becomes a chapter about how our heros win a battle with bottles of phosphorus).
Oh my god if I read any more tedious exposition I'm going to find you and throw this book at you. And it's big, it'll hurt. It'd be a lot smaller if you just told the story. Oh, and now you skip the part of the story with the action just so you can tell me what happened in more tedious exposition? Fuck You Neal Stephenson, I used to like you!
Po raz kolejny czytając powieść tego autora delektowałem się każdą kolejna stroną, a ostatnią przywitałem ze smutkiem, że to już koniec tego niesamowitego dzieła.Tym razem autor skupia się na dwóch postaciach - Jacku Shaftoe i Elizie.
Przez 3/4 książki w fabule nie ma większych przeskoków w czasie co tylko wychodzi jej na dobre (w porównaniu z pierwszą częścią), później niestety autor przyspiesza, zaczynają się przeskoki, co powoduje, że wydarzenia, o których można by napisać kolejną powieść, zawarte są na kilku marnych stronach (cóż za marnotrawstwo).
Hay varias historias simultáneas que se entrecruzan pero llega un momento que me cansó.
No le falta genialidad porque está muy bien pensado, pero se me hizo denso.En algunas partes me atrapaba y me leía 100 páginas de un tirón.
Por eso el avance se me hizo muuuy lento.
Reconozco que el interés en la historia de la ciencia, y de este período en particular no son para todo el mundo, pero a mí me interesan especialmente; quizá por eso disfruté más el primer libro.Es una pena porque el anterior libro de la trilogía me encantó y por supuesto que quiero saber cómo termina.
Both stories are equally compelling but in totally different ways: the swashbuckling adventures of a maritime cabal of pirates and slaves couldn't be more different from the sensitive and precise financial, political and scientific intrigues of the contingent of Natural Philosophers.
Unforgettable characters are forged, given rich stories, and sometimes discarded so many times that the reader can't help but get confused themselves at times, but it all contributes to the breadth and span of this Baroque epic.
Impossibly the two stories begin to converge - around Phosphorous, of all things - setting the stage for the much anticipated final act!
No diversion goes too far afield, no tangent is too barock or philosophickal, and no intrigue is too ornately improbable for me in this yarn. If it were written on a roll of Turing machine tape, extending infinitely into the horizon, I have no doubt I would continue reading as long as I breathe. Alas but there is only one tome remaining in the trilogy for me.
this review is for all 3 books, and i'll keep it short...
this trilogy is just a not-so-subtle way to get people to read and learn history!
the fictional parts of the books are rather dull, but the walk through history was interesting...
problem being i already ready history, as non-fiction, and these books aren't much from a fiction/fantasy/science fiction/historical fiction standpoint when the goings on of actual happenings are removed...
for me they failed as fiction, and only get 2 stars instead of one because i do love history and that was what kept me reading...
What’s the opposite of writer’s block?
Verbal diarrhea?
That seems appropriate given Stephenson’s fondness for infodumps and using 1,000 words where 1 would do.
This book, like all of his others, is bloated and irritatingly verbose, but damn good despite that.
It takes a long time to get into and, many times, I wanted to quit, but couldn’t.
What saves it in the end is the story which is, for some reason fascinating and captivating, and the dialogues, which move the story along at a brisk pace when they do occur.
One thing for sure: the title of this book is appropriate.
oh thank god that's over and done with, the writing is awkward after reading a lot of O'Brian, it's full of tedious 1) Libertarianism 2) over-detailed economic drivel 3) weeaboo stuff 4) every last word is exposition etc. etc. ... but boy other than that this was made juuuust for me, early modern period, hell yes fam, the sequence with the animal hospital in India is nearly as good as the ostrich chase scene from the first book; the good ending redeemed a lot of the finger-drumming before it
I love this series - but can see lots of people not liking it so much.
The history is fascinating - and I believe quite a bit of the exaggeration - and find it thought-provoking.
I find humor in it that may be subtle for those not looking for it.The first book in this universe took place during WWII - this 2nd book of a 3 book series has as one of its minor characters, Isaac Newton.
It follows some other characters in separate journeys.
Occasionally the detail may bog down some readers who don't care for that kind of thing.
I did mark a bunch of stuff that I wanted to share with you all though, that I thoroughly enjoyed:***Here's a slightly predictable but still enjoyable little exchange:"You shall amass some sort of capital, and lend out money...
and no money.""Just so, my lord."(p.486)***The Elector Johann Georg IV belonged to a sort of fraternity whose members were to be found in every country in the world, and among every class of society: Men Who Had Been Hit on the Head as Boys.
It also features some of the most satisfying death scenes I've encountered in a long time.
This is not the figure from Sir Walter Scott’s Kenilworth described thus, “The schoolmaster is termed, classically, Ludi Magister, because he deprives boys of their play.”In these sprawling novels, Stephenson seems to conflate the two identities ascribed to him on Wikipedia, author and game designer, and to give the reader at least some of each, novel and game.
In my humble opinion Stephenson often takes too many liberties with the historical personas and inserts too many fictitious characters - but perhaps the latter is more forgivable than making real historical characters do things that they did not.
Some characters which I happen to admire, he makes into villains.
But at the same time, Stephenson really does bring history to life, and pushes history with all its complexities into our faces.
That is the quality which Stephenson's works should be admired most for - his ability to make us see how complex and subtle society actually was in bygone days.
