https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29119.Doom_of_the_Darksword
I love the continuation! The introduction of Merilon and Lord Samuels and Gwen brought a freshness to the story, and the authors have exceeded my expectations with where they've taken the plot. The descriptions are richer than in the first book, and the narrative clearly illustrates a society that's perfect on the outside, but rotting underneath. The ending was exciting and I can't wait to read the final installment!
Years later when I started reading heavily again I started searching for this trilogy again but it was sadly out of print and unobtainable.
I have never been so happy re-reading a set of books.
The only thing that made this reintroduction to this universe again better was finding while I adored the original trilogy the sequel was even more amazing and I tore through it in no time.
and if someone hasn't read the entire trilogy they realy cannot even begin to speak to the truth of these books
Well this was a good book, but sometimes the descriptions in chapters just went on too long. At least there are 3 books in the trilogy though I found out a 4th book was written like 10 years after the 3rd book. I do think book 2 did a really good job of making me want to find out what happens to the characters. That is important in a series to me. Too often series go on for 10 books now and I tend to not even care what happens anymore. Hopefully the series ends with a bang!
A great fantasy epic - amusing, absorbing, imaginative and well-written what more can you ask for? So, onto the final book of the trilogy.
Enjoyed it! Loving Simkin! Can't wait to see what new problems he can cause! Already reading "Triumph of the Darksword"
Apparently sequel can be better than first book. More linear and less jumpy storyline makes it more convenient to follow adventures and also more error prone for author.
The trilogy that got me into reading as a teenager. My rating probably reflects this. It's a great one for teenagers just getting into fantasy books etc...
Sure, this is the volume where Joram falls in love (a flat, lifeleless love affair if ever I read one) and discovers his inheritance and learns of the possibility of War between Merilon and Sharakan but Weis and Hickman make some massive blunders in how these are revealed to us.For the first half of the book, Joram and company meet some guy Prince Garald who is inexplicably nice to them, has tea and cake and trains Joram how to use his sword better.
This is a lengthy episode and sortof takes the place of Lorien in Lord of the Rings, a useful interlude, not the backbone of the first half of the book.
Perhaps I just did not notice it right away.One component of this book was a developing love story between one of the main characters, Joram, and a new character.
I am not sure why fantasy books have such terrible interactions between love interests.
None of this has any real relevance to the way that anything in the story plays out, at least to this point, so it seems like a weird novelty in this series with a purpose only to draw attention to itself.Despite these minor gripes, I have enjoyed the Darksword trilogy so far, for the most part, and am interested to see how it ends in the final book.
It was an improvement from the first book. Hovering around a 3.5. The fact that i want to read the 3rd book makes it a solid 4.
The ugly spectre of discrimination6 February 2012 I read these books prior to reading the Xanth series so when I did read the first Xanth book my initial though was 'gee, this is a lot like Darksword, only much more light hearted'. Well, since Xanth was written first, it is more likely than not that the idea was taken from the Xanth book, but whereas Xanth tends to be quite light hearted, these books have a much more serious, and darker tone. What I want to carry on with this book is the idea of
The ugly spectre of discrimination6 February 2012	I read these books prior to reading the Xanth series so when I did read the first Xanth book my initial though was 'gee, this is a lot like Darksword, only much more light hearted'.
Many of us, at least here in Australia, scream out about reverse-racism: that is the idea that because we are white we do not receive the special assistance that others receive and as such are left behind and have a much more difficult time in getting to where assisted persons get to simply by being of a different race.
From the cover and the title and having read Death's Gate, I expected a sort of fantasy action adventure, and was really kind of perplexed by the treacle-slow first installment, which was a lot of character and setup and not a lot of happening things.Somewhere in the middle of "Doom," I realized that I was actually reading a sort of allegorical character study piece, and then it all started to make more sense.
There's still really not a lot of action, so if you want to read something actually about swords, this probably isn't it.
Our hero's story kicks into full gear here.
Not only is he someone who is Dead (born without any magic), not only did he create the Darksword (made of an ore that can absore magical energy), but he is the person that is mentioned in a very dark prophecy that marks the end of the world.Well since this is a "Trilogy" (that turns into 4 books) the real conclusion won't come in this book, but the cliff hanger is a good one.
One that makes you want to read the next book.
he really helps push the story forward.A good read.
The second book of this great trilogy follows from the first book and ends in a cliffhanger to the third book. The plot picks up its pace in this book and the motivations of the various main characters are starting to become clearer. There's a lot of suspense and action as the plot builds on deceptions and twists. It doesn't stand well enough on its own as it's obviously a bridge, but it's a good strong bridge.
Our doom-laden protagonist has to navigate his way through intrigue and plots while attempting to bring about the end of the world.Its funny. It smacks of a Greek hero. Everyone KNOWS what is going to happen. Hell, even the hero does, because of the Greek belief in predestination. But he soldiers on without pause. It's what they do.Well-written, just not breaking any new ground here.
Après "La naissance de l'épée", "La malédiction de l'épée" est le deuxième épisode du cycle "La légende de l'épée noire". Dans ce volet, une ancienne prophétie concernant un enfant royal qui ignore son ascendance semble sur le point de se réaliser. Original, non ? Pourtant, ce roman est meilleur que le résumé peut le laisser penser. Il serait dommage de passer à côté !
I enjoyed following the adventures of Joram, Mosiah, and Scary on, as well as the comical antics of Simkin. This author does a good job of weaving details into the plot--no flowery or long-winded descriptions here. By the end, I was so attached to the characters that I am really looking forward to the next book in the series.
Ok. I've read betterThis book was ok. The first book was better. I found myself skimming through the vast descriptions to get back to the story. I don't know if I will read the third. I'm not intrigued enough to care how it ends any more. My only lingering question is: Who is Simkin? If the next book would answer that I might be inclined to read it.
More complicated than the first book of the series, but more satisfying too as that the formerly powerless protagonist suddenly is a force to be reckoned with. His relationship with his childhood friend, and his courtship of a young noblewoman, were both charming, but it's still a somewhat bitter story.
This was the second complete trilogy we read by this author. It's a downer - almost Thomas Covenant depressing - but I remember liking it quite a bit. Like Tom the Leper, I never wanted to read it again, although I still have it around just in case.
This is the second book in a three part series, a series I did not like. The authors tried to make this series into a roleplaying game, and the writing suffered in the attempt to gear it towards a rules system. Also, the rules of the roleplaying game were terrible.
this sword may safe the world but its cost will cost the world.
It was okay, we finished it, but unlike some other Weis and Hickman works that I've read, this was overly emotional and over the top with some of the chest-beating and despair.
Chronicles of Han Storm Book Club Read
I'm still enjoying the series but.... i feel i'm missing something. - love LOVE Simkin.
Good book. If only the third part of the trilogy had been this good. Some bits were a little melodramatic, but that's to be expected in a fantasy novel I suppose.
Darksword
Truly awful. I'm not a big fan of Weis and Hickman, but I have read many of their books. This trilogy was really, really bad.
More Margaret Weis that I could not get enough of as a teenager. The Darksword trilogy was great filler in between the many Dragonlance novels. These are the perfect young adult fantasy reads.
rated four stars because nothing is perfect. loved this so much.
