https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/523518.The_Friendly_Persuasion
"The Friendly Persuasion" tells about an Indiana Quaker family in the late 19th Century in fourteen stories. The individual stories were first published in magazines, then gathered together as a book in 1945. Jess and Eliza Birdwell--a nurseryman and a Quaker preacher--live on a family farm with their brood of children. Jessamyn West based the main characters on her grandparents and great-grandparents. Some of the stories are humorous, and others are sentimental and full of wisdom. The writing is lovely with an old-fashioned charm.
The Friendly Persuasion is the story of the Birdwell family; Jess, his wife Eliza, and their six children.
I really would like to know what Jessamyn West was thinking of when she wrote this!
There were some weird parts near the end where I thought, "um...what exactly was that for?" but all in all, I'll say this is one good book.
"I ain't so far from those days not to know a man plowed the earth then with his heart as well as his hands.
I have seen bullet holes resulting from Morgan’s raid, where the Confederates reached up into Indiana during the Civil War. And although the Society of Friends were pacifists, many young Quaker men enlisted in the Union Army, to do their duty and to fight against slavery, much to the chagrin of their families.
I so enjoyed West’s take on the war in the context of the Birdwell family – it really made history (and those bullet holes) come alive.This novel made me laugh and sympathize and charmed me in a way few books can.
This book, along with the hard-to-find "Except For Me and Thee," offers up her paean for her own Quaker ancestory in a series of short stories that chronicle the Jess Birdwell family.
Jess, an Indiana farmer in the middle on the 19th century, lives his Quaker faith deeply but not without struggle when confronting its more puritan strains.
I rerad these books at least once every five years just to make sure that what I once found so good in America continues to live inside me.
Having just moved to southern Indiana, I thought I would give this book a try. Meh. Started out with some great stories, then it dragged. In one of the final chapters, I was so confused, I couldn't tell what was happening or who "Aunt Jetty" was. Good peek into quaker life in the mid to late 1800's, I thought.
I've watched it many times and there were many comparisons from the book to the movie.
Of course the book allows for a slower pace with this Quaker family and a more moving term of phrase.
I will admit I'm not sure I would have completely understood some of the stories for the subtle humor and joy that was portrayed had I not watched the movie first.
This book is a collection of short stories; each surrounding the Birdwell family.
My favorite stories were the happier toned ones.
There were a few melancholic lonely stories that I didn't enjoy as much.
Jeff makes the swap in compliance with the letter-of-the-law, if not the spirit - and come next First meeting Day, Lady leads the Reverend's Black Prince all the way to the Methodist meeting house and right on past it and up to their own Quaker church, with Jeff 'encouraging' Lady for all he's worth and even Eliza complimenting Lady for her efforts; much to their mutual embarassment.The family also has to contend with the ethical dilema of the Civil War, with Morgan's Raiders threatening them and their neighbors.
The story is about a Quaker family living in Indiana back in the glorious olden days, and once you get past the "thee" and "thou" language, it's just a delight to read the quick-witted chapters that give you a glimpse into each member of the family, with Jess, the father, being the focal point.
I found West's skill as an author most evident when I realized how very different the characters are, but she gets into each of their heads perfectly.
This is a book I'd love to own, and that would be fun to read aloud to someone else.
It was one that I recall bits of, long ago when my older sister was reading it and wanted to share what she'd enjoyed, but I didn't read it for myself until I was on vacation recently, and wanted something light but enlightening.
Even though the overall tone of the book was romantic, lighthearted and humorous, the author explores deeper emotions--fear, jealousy, grief, pride--through her characters, sometimes as witnessed through the eyes of the children in the stories.
One of the things I liked best was the author's ability to paint landscapes, from season to season, with expert choice of words.
I love the people in The Friendly Persuasion and would like to meet them and have them give me a little advice on how to meet my own life's challenges.I once read she based the novel on stories of her grandparents, and that makes sense because the people are drawn in such detail they seem real.
I wish I knew my own grandparents so well.I believe this novel endures the test of time because it is written with such love.
It is among my top 10 favorite books of all time and I am so glad Louise recommended it to me!
The story of a Quaker family in India in the days prior to the Civil War.The main characters are Indiana Quaker Jess Birdwell, his wife, Eliza and their children, Labe, Josh and Mattie, an 1850 junior miss.It is interesting to hear the men discuss politics and politicians such as Stephen A.
There is a scene I enjoyed where Jess and his wife take a neighbor to court over a goose.
As court begins, the judge tells the bailiff to swear the witness in.
Ezra says, "we're Quakers, we do not swear, Quakers affirm.

A surprising source recommended this as having really interesting prose styling. I think it was someone like Joan Didion . . . And she was right--beautifully written, with very interesting ways to convey things. The first chapter was off-putting to me, though after having read the rest I might be able to go back and enjoy it. But it felt too hokey. I loved the way West traces many seasons of a life (Jess's particularly) with a change of focus for each chapter, which is really a stand-alone story.
This is an amazing collection of stories about the Birdwells, a family of Quakers during the Civil War. The stories were written during WWII, and they start out light-hearted and funny, but get progressively sadder. What I liked best was that West wrote the different stories from the points-of-view of different family members. And whether she was writing from the father's POV or the teenage daughter's, she did it so well!Also, this is one of those rare occasions where the movie is just as good as the book.
I read this because I watched the film of the same name, never having encountered Jessamyn West before. She writes with enormous warmth and human insight, and with an ever-present sense of humour. These stories are so vivid and real, and I was sorry to reach the end of the book - and then delighted when I realised there was another volume of stories about the same family!
A light and funny story about family life. The main characters are based on the author's family growing up in the early 1900's as Quakers.
Friendly Persuasion, written by Michael Wilson, based on the book by Jessamyn West9 out of 10Notes and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... and http://realini.blogspot.ro/- “It will pleasure you in a hundred ways”This is on the poster of this great movie and it is a correct statement.Friendly Persuasion is a film about the war, the moral implications, religion and other serious themes that make it fascinating.It is also a splendid comedy.You can fin

West gained the background material for her stories when her mother, Grace Milhous West, shared with her childhood memories of growing up as a Quaker girl in southern Indiana, and particularly of grandparents Joshua and Elizabeth Milhous, who became the models for the Birdwells.While The Friendly Persuasion is often called “West’s first novel,” it is more a series of fourteen vignettes.
In 1969, West published a companion novel, Except for Me and Thee, whose stories filled in the history of the Birdwells, including how they courted, married, and moved to Indiana.
Originally published between 1940 and 1945 as individual stories in Prairie Schooner, Collier's, Harper's Bazaar, The Atlantic Monthly, the Ladies' Home Journal, New Mexico Quarterly Review, and Harper's Magazine, West had them reprinted in more or less chronological order covering a forty-year span of the Birdwell family's lives in the latter half of the 19th Century."I chose this book as my first book of the year because it fulfilled several reading challenges I'm working on for January.
Mostly reading even a good book can be tainted if not ruined by having first seen it’s movie version.
Yet the book enlarges and expands the incidents touched in the movie, and the casting of all the characters seemed exactly right to those in my later reading of the novel.
Let me just say both book and movie chronicle the happenings of a Quaker man and wife in a rural community in Indiana just before and after the Civil War. Doesn't sound so very dramatic or interesting to many, I’m guessing, but let me simply say it’s a profoundly moving story, full of all the humor and other emotion life brings to us all, whomever or wherever we are.
3.5 starsNot a novel, but rather a collection of loosely-connected stories about Jess Birdwell, an Indiana farmer; his wife and children. The title refers to their being Quakers (Friends). Most of the stories are about Jess. He has a mischievous sense of humour, loves nature and has a philosophical bent. An unusual book since there are very large time gaps between the stories, but very satisfying as a whole.
This book of vignettes of Amish life in southern Indiana at the time of the Civil War. Foremost among them is the story which forms the basis of the 1950s anti-war movie, Friendly Persuasion. That part of the book, somewhat different from the movie, is worth reading. In fact each of the chapter-long stories are full of humor and wisdom about the meaning of life. If you like this type of literature, this book is a complete gem.
A series of chapter and vignettes about a Quaker family in Indiana. Sometimes heart warming, sometimes incredibly disjointed and quite often very dated in language. Moments that could have been quite exciting were instead limited and quieted down to the point of boredom. Movie was by far better and given more humor and heart.
Something for everyone here. Humor, pathos, love, war. Jessamyn West has a powerful voice. My boys laughed all the way through some chapters. Others left us speechless. I imagine that West and Wendell Berry would have a lot to talk about.
It was a set of short stories centered on a Quaker family. I never got a real feeling for the makeup of the family other than the parents though several stories centered on the children. One or two stories did make me think but in general, it was only OK.
This isn't the sort of book I'm normally interested in, but it was exactly what I needed at the time.
We read this for our church club, partly in honor of Indiana's Bicentennial. I was surprised that it had been several years since anyone had rated this in Goodreads.It takes a bit of patience to read this, because the delicate prose requires a bit more reflection than much of today's straight-forward, "dumbed down" reading. There were times I had to look up words, re-read, re-read even a few paragraphs because it seemed I had missed something....I have not seen the movie, but do plan to watch it now.
The movie based on this is a favorite of my dad and his father.
Quaker stories infused with an Austin-like wit and wisdom. A very nice surprise, although I went in with little expectation.
A collection of short stories concerning the Birdwell family in 19th century Indiana. Basis of my favorite movie, "Friendly Persuasion," with Gary Cooper and Dorothy McGuire.
