https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14287.Almost_Transparent_Blue
"I put the thin fragment of glass, dripping blood, in my pocket, and ran out into the misty road. The doors and windows of the houses were shut, nothing was moving. I thought I'd been swallowed by a huge living thing, that I was turning around and around in its stomach like the hero of some fairy tale." Almost Transparent BlueA warning to any potential readers of this book. There is explicit, graphic sex in the first half of this novel. If you are prudish about group sex, alternative sex, or say
This book kicks you in the nuts and as your falling to the ground you catch a knee to the chin that stands you back up so Murakami can slug you a few more times before letting you fall into bloody heap wishing you could reach that syringe full of smack just beyond your blood dripping reach.
By the time they are done he is a mess.The blood smeared and dripping over the lower half of his face was a black mask.
With each generation more humanity is lost.I read Less than Zero for a second time a couple of years ago before I read Imperial Bedroomsand I thought about the Mangum concept then as well.
When I was a bit younger I had my fair share of teenage angst that led me to a path of abandon, partly because of hubris, I wanted to have experienced life and all it had to offer me if I wanted to write something that would matter, because somewhere I’d read that a writer is only the sum of his experiences, and partly because I craved the thrill.
And from the all of the colors of a psychedelic rainbow, to all the shades of intense darkness at the heart of an empty soul, surprisingly, a feeling of peace stems out.
And this feeling of peace has the hue of an almost transparent blue.

People from the hippie generation acting like drugged out assholes.
Even if the book is in Japan, some assholes different country.
This book did make me a little sad that because of some misguided decisions that I don't know nearly enough to really comment on, a country with it's own culture went into a war, lost, were occupied by a vacuous country that exported the worst they had to offer and undermine future generations.
Instead my disgust with the book made me remember this quote from one of the members of Born Against:"FUCK ROCK.
He's reading "A Clockwork Orange", his eyes peeled open by mechanical claws.I bring out those mechanical claws so that I can see once again the literary uses of bodily juices -- semen, vomit, blood, and bile of different colors, purple, brown, green...and Almost Transparent Blue?
I'm a fly trying to remember what it's like to be a 17-year-old contemplating the Almost Transparent Blue of love...I just hope that I can get through the other shades of bile to get there.I reach for a syringe with the latest drug of choice and find this book.
We, whether religious or atheist, have our moments where we feel as if life is without meaning, that we are simply an overly self conscious mammal that walks, talks, breathes and finally dies without feeling like we have accomplished much in our short lives.
All lead a nihilistic existence and Ryū Murakami writes with such intensive prose, beautiful in its darkness, dark in its beauty, where our narrator (a fictional Ryū Murakami as the character, also named Ryū) and his friends are stuck in a constant crop rotation of despair, hallucinations, paranoia, surrealism and misery.Ryū Murakami questions our existence through these characters, crushing their hopes of a meaningful life with violence, emotionless sex, heroin, cocaine, hallucinogens and every other mind or mood altering drug you can think of.
I acknowledge why it should be considered important for the Japanese literature but this alone is not adaquate.Short version: Drugs, sex, more drugs, more sex, promiscuous, dirty and disgusting.
Long version: First of all, this novel was plotless.
Half of the book was random sex scenes of any kind, even group sex, which is completely fine but it was vain.
The prose was gruesome due to the disgusting scenes and other times beautiful.
I think the writer tried too hard to shock the reader which was something that I disliked.
Shocking indeed.
Baskısı bulunmayan bu kitabı benimle paylaşan ArturoBelano'ya çok teşekkür ederim.Kitapla ilgili fikirlerimi, bir türlü anlaşılır bir şekilde aktaramadım şuan. Uzun yorumumu daha sonra gireceğim.Herkese iyi okumalar!7,5/10
With the highly manipulation of one's ability for imaginary visualisation Ryu Murakami manages to bring the reader into the reel of the damned, meaning that wherever you are you are with them, wherever they are you feel how the walls just compress you into their comradely hug, while the drugs just bump into your skin without you even notice: the struggle, the joy, the importance of friendship where everything seems like melting away.
Because this book has it all: callous true love, brutal sex, jealousy, chase of spirituality (e.g: Okinawa's covet of hearing Ryu again with his flute, with the aim of replacing the addiction by finding his lost self), desire, fights, friendship in the name of drugs and a guy that wants to see the life with another eyes (the writer).
And then the old, cut pineapple, its rancid odor; the blood on needles, heroin, hashish, mescaline, Nibrole pills dissolved in gin, Philopon, shooting up, vomit, spittle, saliva, unwashed smelly bodies, rock music, The Doors, Rolling Stones, Mal Waldron, James Brown, Billy Holiday, mouldy soup, rotten bean curd, dirty rooms, leftover roast chicken gone completely bad, old radio, black American studs with huge dicks, Japanese girls with small pussies, sex orgies--"Pressing her chin on the table, breathin hard, Moko attacked a crab like a starving child.
My rating doesn't have anything to do with all the dirty stuff this book had, and I'm not even looking for a plot or point. Some of my favourites are dirty, plotless books. While reading this book, all I could picture was horny Murakami. For one thing,Ryu Murakami is brave enough to write a dirty book with the main character called Ryu. In the miso soup still remains his best book for me.Perhaps it's just lost in translation and it isn't 1970s anymore.
La verdad es que no sé por dónde empezar, trate de leer este libro anteriormente y no logre engancharme, me animaba mucho el autor y que un amigo me hablo bien de él, le di otra oportunidad (tardé mucho por situaciones ajenas al libro).
Lo que en verdad ame de este libro y del autor en sí, es la forma de la escritura, esa delicadeza y detalle con la que describe cosas tan simples como beber de una copa, el cómo logra que cosas que podrían ser “incomodas” tengan algo sutil con un toque de belleza.
Seguramente volveré a leerlo, no pronto, pero si lo haré de nuevo.
3,5/5Una historia muy decadente. Pornográfica, violenta. escatológica e incluso delirante, puede parecer que no va a ningún lugar en concreto, pero a mí me ha gustado, creo que hay un toque bastante artístico y auténtico en todo esto.
i liked Piercing and i loved In the Miso Soup, but i found this book (his first) just mind-numbingly boring.
that was about the only moment in the book that seemed to show a little imagination (though let's be honest, not that much).
i'm all for pornography and psychopathic violence and whatnot, but i really do need there to be a story.
this book was not for me.think bataille's Story of the Eye, only 50 years later, in japan, humorless, muddled, and dull.
Good for students of Japanese wanting to expand their vocabulary around drug-taking, vomiting and rough sex.
I think it reflected a lifestyle which Japanese people of that age secretly envied, when they weren't too busy with their math homework.
Seriously, who takes drugs listening to the Rolling Stones these days?
The book is redeemed at the end by as good a description of drug induced alienation and confusion as anywhere, so is worthy of respect.At least I now have the vocabulary for a great night out in Roppongi: dribble (noun) – yodare/涎; nausea – hakike/吐き気; vomit (verb) –haku/吐く; vomit (noun) – outomono/嘔吐物; groan – umeku/呻く.

Δεν βρήκα λόγο να συνεχίσω αυτό το βιβλίο, πραγματικά.Τελικά, υποθέτω, κανένας Μουρακάμι δεν μ' αρέσει, δυστυχώς.
La historia fue dura, sucia y difícil de digerir. Amé el libro, odié la traducción de Anagrama.
The next 100-odd pages are packed to the brim with more of the same- violent orgies with American servicemen, madcap mescaline adventures that end with them crashing a car onto a runway, more heroin, flashmobs beating security guards senseless and other signs of impending armageddon.
At times extremely disturbing (I could have gone my whole life without reading the scene with the foot), Murakami still manages to paste together an interesting tale of cultureless youth emulating what they see as a stronger people, the servicemen who blow a mean sax, have the best drugs, and that suave intoxicating confidence of knowing you can do no wrong.
The first half was a drag.
The only factors that kept me reading were the shortness of the book and the author's skill, because these first sixty pages were deathly boring.In the second half, something like a story of a dark personal transformation begins to emerge.
This half of the book is wondrous enough to justify reading the entire novel itself.Additionally, I suspect the author is doing something or has a message.
The book offers a couple easy ways to interpret it through an appended paragraph at the very end, but I get the feeling more is moving beneath the surface.

The main character shares his personal name “Ryu” and certain places and situations reflect locations that the author was exposed to in these and earlier years.You could call the novel “decadent”.
No matter how much we in the US think that society and family conspire to control how we behave and interact (I am taking the hard view here), it is nothing compared to those pressures in Japan and many other Asian countries.The phrase, “the nail that sticks up will be hammered down” is a true insight into how conformity has been the overwhelming force in Japanese society for hundreds of years.
Especially the lower half of my body felt heavy and sore, as if sunk into thick mud, and my mouth itched to hold somebody's prick and drain it.
I wanted to take in the greased, shiny bodies of the black men and rock them inside me.
That is essentially the first half of this novel captured in one paragraph.
I wouldn't say that I am a prude or generally squeemish when it comes to literature; I have thoroughly enjoyed other novels from this author, especially In The Miso Soup, but this was a very difficult read.
Novela sórdida y desapasionada, enmarcada en la corriente del realismo sucio, que deja muy claras sus intenciones desde la primera página.
En ella, los personajes, adolescentes japoneses que viven cerca de una base militar estadounidense, se dejan arrastrar por un frenesí violento y brutal repleto de excesos, drogas, orgías y tentativas de suicidio del que ni siquiera logran extraer un modicum de placer.
Valoro la propuesta de Murakami, pero no tanto su ejecución.
Contiene, eso sí, algunas imágenes de arrebatadora lucidez y belleza que resplandecen en medio de tanta palabrería narcotizante, pero en líneas generales no parece que haya aquí mucho donde rascar.
John and Seth should not read this book. right this book is about sex and drugs and it doesn't really have a plot. But I mean if you like books about drugs and really graphic descriptions of violent psedorape are your thing I say go for it. There is also a fun lsd feel to the book if you can get over the other stuff.
En esta búsqueda constante del arte me complace saber que nunca podré terminar de conocerla en su totalidad...
O, al menos, eso me pareció que ocurrió aquí: la historia genera un contrapunto entre las acciones que se ejecutan y cierto sentimiento de insatisfacción (el "No future" más punkero, ese mismo que se logra ver de mejor manera en "Rodrigo D: No futuro", preciosa película de Víctor Gaviria) que se muestra como fuerza expresiva de un medio destinado a autodestruirse.
De alguna forma, siento que faltó algo más de desarrollo: para generar una novela atmosférica (como creo que aquí se trata de hacer) es necesario estimular el paisaje, construir de una manera no tan rápida los personajes (que aquí tienden a ser arque-típicos e intercambiables, arrojados a la potencia del "No futuro") y hacer de las imágenes recursos potentes que permitan tejer redes entre el medio y las acciones.
Հա, եկա ասելու, որ ինձ դուր են գալիս էն գրքերը, որոնք իրենց մեջ յուրահատուկ գույն ունեն, էնպես, ինչպես օրինակ ընկերներիցս մեկին ասում էի, որ լեհական կինոն մանուշակագույն է ու չէի կարողանում բացատրել, թե ինչի, ճապոնական գրականությունն էլ գույն ունի՝ մուգ կապույտ է, կարդալուց ուղղակի մեջս ավելանում էր էդ կապույտը, երևի գրքի վերնագրից ու ոճից էլ էր:Բայց հոգնեցնող էր մի տեսակ, լավ է գոնե կարճ էր, չձանձրացա, երկար լիներ, հաստատ չէի կարդա: Հա, մեկ էլ ամբողջ ընթացքում պատկերացնում էի, թե ի՜նչ սիրուն ֆիլմ կնկարեր էս գրքից Ֆինչերը, մի օր կարդա գոնե ու նկարի :))
El leer este libro ha sido una experiencia increíble y muy excitante para mis sentidos. Hay que dejarse llevar por la forma de narrar del autor que te absorve, te atrapa y te arrastra en la espiral de vivencias de los protagonistas.
Rate: 3/5Khá rối rắm và thấy cuộc sống của đám bọn họ thật bế tắc. Chỉ có nhiêu đó: ma túy, tình dục loạn cả lên, rồi lại rượu, lại thuốc, lại phát rồ lên, cứ thế xoay đều vòng xoay cuộc sống. Phải hơn một nửa cuốn sách tôi mới biết họ thậm chí còn chưa tới 20 tuổi. Vậy mà lại bế tắc như thế...
Plongée au cœur d'une bande de jeunes désœuvrés. Drogue, sexe et poésie clinique. Dépaysant.
