https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15863832-angelfall
This is my favorite book of 2011! This review may contain extreme amounts of gushing!I...I...I... -----The above was my immediate reaction after finishing this book. There simply were no words to describe how much I loved it, how it horrified me, shocked me, tore at my heart again and again. Brilliant.2011 turned out to be a great year for Angel books for me. I know that might seem strange when you think of the more popular horrible ones **cough* Hush, Hush*cough*Halo*cough*Fallen*cough**. But t
I'm not going to go in some extreme in-depth talk about how awesome this book is because there are a few other reviews that do that and I don't think I could do the book any justice even if I tried.
Instead, I'm going to give you ten reasons why you should go purchase this book RIGHT NOW.1.
There are so many quotes I could paste into my review, but I can't because I'd end up just pasting the entire book.
Angel books run the risk of not being true to their mythological "rules." I think you know what I'm talking about here.
Oh my goodness, I think this book might have just ruined the entire urban fantasy - and possibly dystopian too - genre for me. Because, where can I go from here? Does it ever get better than this? Please be warned right now that this review is going to be nothing less than gushing. I loved everything about this book, so much so that I may need to keep writing in italics. I can't believe I nearly didn't read this book. I've looked at the other rave reviews for it so many times and I kept coming
I've looked at the other rave reviews for it so many times and I kept coming back and re-reading the goodreads description, trying to talk myself into a book with angels.
In one eventful day, Penryn rescues an angel who is being attacked by five others, which results in her sister getting captured by one of the five.
With only the angel - an enemy - who can help, Penryn sets out to rescue her sister.Now Penryn may actually be my new favourite heroine of all time.
For my somewhat twisted sense of humor and enjoyment of creepy visuals, it was exciting to find an author who writes such dark and vivid imagery, however, and I'd say that if you're someone who's comfortable reading zombie books, you'd probably be okay with what happens here.
My quibbles are far outweighed by my rampant enthusiasm over this book, however, as the action-packed story, sharp and funny dialogue, macabre touches, unforgettable characters, and well-researched angelology all make for an incredible read.
This peculiar obsession lasted for years and so my pile of angel books read became real impressive.
Kissed by an Angel, Hush, Hush, Unearthly, Fallen, Daughter of Smoke & Bone, Once Dead, Twice Shy are some of the books/series that I would dive into.But hear me out: of all the stories featuring winged humans that I have had the pleasure to read, none was so… Obscure.
Relentlessly dark.And more.I can’t say that it renewed my love toward angels… because obviously this book wouldn’t be what it is if those creatures were the ‘‘good guys,’’ but I sure as hell feel like reading further.
A badass girl who can take care of herself, a hot ( I know we all say that looks aren't everything, but, come on, there's always a small part of us that wants a guy who looks like sex on a stick) guy who not only has the looks, but the personality and smarts to back it up, action, a plot that makes you beg for more every single page, and a relationship that you can actually look at and go, "God dammit that's  real  love!"This.
This book rocked my socks. Penryn. Raffe. The dialogue. Awesome.
4.5 freaking stars!It was a great story.I haven't read much angel books before and this one was quite good.Also the characters fit with the story quite right.There were some funny moments which I really enjoyed. The story: The book is about a girl named Penryn who lives in a world taken by angels.She has a sick mother and a younger sister on a wheelchair.While they try to escape , her sister gets caught by an angel , and he takes her away.Now Penryn is desperate to find someone who can help her
4.5 freaking stars!It was a great story.I haven't read much angel books before and this one was quite good.Also the characters fit with the story quite right.There were some funny moments which I really enjoyed.
Penryn One of the coolest badass female characters I have ever read about.Penryn has been through some rough times in her life with her mother and her sister and she always take the responsibility for taking care of thing.She is smart , caring strong (actually she is trained) and loyal to her family and friends.RaffeWhat I liked about this character is his sense of humor.He comes up some funny jokes even in the most thrilled moments.He is also a man of his word , caring , pretty strong and quite smart.
This main character...This world...This story...I’ve read this twice three times now, and I don’t know how to do it justice in a review.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest
I thought I was just embarking on a ridiculous bandwagon that was being indulgent of an unusually good indie fic.There are one or two issues I have with the novel but they are completely eclipsed by the brilliant story telling, characters and writing.I loved Penryn so completely; believed in her and championed her.
This book is a brilliant journey of great character and spirit.
Ee has a great imagination and a gift for story telling.I know after I finish writing this review I will go and hunt down my next read.
This  is how you write a book about angels.
This  is how you write a post-apocalyptic book.
Penryn, caught up in a raging battle for survival, must take care of her crippled seven-year-old sister and her mother who is bordering on the verge of complete lunacy.
Their relationship is a rocky one at best, but it is original, unique, and I find myself hoping against hope that it improves.Although Penryn was a completely kick-ass and self-reliant protagonist, she was no match for Raffe, the warrior angel.
This is hands down one of the best books I've read this year.
i love me some YA survival books, but the romantic elements of those books are the parts i myself am surviving, in order to get to the good stuff like "how to make a cozy fort out of snow" and "how to start a fire using a shoelace and a kumquat." useful information i am sure i will not retain when it comes time for me to need them.
You get the idea, I am sure.Everything I am fond of in novels of this sort is there: self-reliant, courageous heroine who loves her family and is ready to sacrifice everything for them - check; romance secondary to survival - check; action, gore and moderate violence - check; a unique, fresh and twisty mythology (Ee does something rather interesting with the angel lore here) - check.
Daughter of Smoke and Bone is a more literary, more complex and better written work, whereas Angelfall is a more commercial, easier to digest story, and I see nothing wrong with that.
HOLY CRAP, BATMAN!
:O➦An apocalypse - check!
✔➦A human heroine who can kick some serious ass - check ✔➦A brooding hot as fuck alien angel - check ✔➦A kidnapped little girl in need of saving - check ✔➦Forbidden love - check ✔Ok, so...
angels are wrecking havoc on Earth and nobody fucking knows WHY.
In fact I don't think the angels themselves know WHY.And then it dawns on me - they all are just hawt for some human pussy.
I need the sequel now!
Men with wings, crazy flesh eating things, scorpion angels (dafuq?).
INCREDIBLE.OH MY GOD.I'm, like, shaking from the utter epicness and badassery that is this gem of a book.
THE BOOK IS THAT GOOD.OH.
GOD.Okay.
Dx I mean, oh my God, you guys.
It pains me that there are a lot of books out there that are getting more hype than Angelfall, when this book would 110% beat them to a pulp with its epicness.Like, literally, this is the best PNR YA book I've ever read.
I can honestly say that.For those of you who haven't gotten this book, please get it.
For those of you who do have this book yet still hold off on reading it...READ IT!!!!!!!Okay.
Life's too short and I'm tired of trying to find a YA book I might miraculously like when I could be reading great books.►► YES everyone else in the known universe seems to love this book.
← = BAD TO AWFUL WRITING (view spoiler)[This kind of reminds me of the Red Rising debacle *shudders* (hide spoiler)].② Total and absolute boredom.
→ Note to the author: for dialogue 101 classes, please contact Ilona Andrews.④ I didn't give a damn about a single character.→ Character development isn't bad.
I think I can safely recommend this book to anyone who likes any of these genres or categories :Sci-Fi (post-apocalyptic world in ruin)Paranormal (angels and demons)Romance (okay, so there wasn't actually one yet, but there is the hint of something forbidden to come)Survival & Adventure storiesHorror, Gore and Macabre twistsYA books that DON'T read like a YA (no angst, no teen drama, age is irrelevant)Basically, Angelfall was all kinds of success.
I think I wish that I had been warned a bit first that the book was going to go from an action/paranormal/post-apocalyptic/budding romance (can I somehow combine these to make an entire new genre?) to a horror story taking place in a sexually charged nightclub.
If you haven't read these books run to Netgalley.
They have the first two up for grabs.
3-2-15I can not believe this book hasn't received more press.
One of the few books that I've read that creates a whole new approach to the end of the world scenario.
Angel driven apocalypse- Who woulda thunk it?
Angel books have never impressed me until I started this series.
I sometimes feel like an old woman reading these young adult books but this one made me not give a crapola.
Go read this!
Then you will be begging (like me) for more.
We all know it's one thing to have an amazing book idea like this, but it's a whole different thing when it comes to having it play out well on paper...
While running they stumble upon an Angel fight where Paige ends up kidnapped and Penryn takes in/hold hostage Raffe who is now a fallen Angel.As far as characters go both Raffe and Pen are super strong.
As far as sub characters go we have her mother, her sister Paige, and the Twins.
Besides our two main characters she was probably my favorite,and the person I'm most looking forward to reading about in the next book.
Penryn’s mom is most interesting mother character I’ve ever read about.I adored the slow burn and build of subtle romance between Penryn and Raffe.
Penryn has some interesting people in her life; an agnostic Angel, a crippled sister, schizophrenic mother, rebellion leader Obi (as in Obi Wan) and Tweedledee and Tweedledum.
I grew to absolutely love the dynamic between Penryn and Raffe along with the forbidden romance that might be forming there.I was wrapped up in this book the entire time, if you like a good adventure and are not faint of heart because some of the horrors in this book were devastatingly cruel it is a great read.
“I am not afraid of you, your kind, or your god.”  I actually really enjoyed this more than I expected to. I'm not a fan at all of books that have to do with Angels and/or Demons. In fact, the only other book I read that had to do with Angels was  Daughter of Smoke and Bone by Laini Taylor  and contrary to popular opinion, I didn't like it too much. Therefore, I was a bit wary about reading another book that involved Angels. But I had high hopes that Angelfall would change my opinion and I'm g
In fact, the only other book I read that had to do with Angels was 
Therefore, I was a bit wary about reading another book that involved Angels.
One thing that really surprised me about Angelfall was how DARK and GRAPHIC some of these scenes got.
Susan Ee did a great job at providing excellent details because I was definitely left cringing and creeped out after some of these scenes.On the other hand though, I loved the characters!
I loved the fact that she's literally trained in various forms of martial arts and self-defense.
And the tension between Penryn and Raffe...
A Badass Hidden Gem...http://badassbookreviews.com/badass-h... The. Perfect. Escape! A dark, gritty, gory, post-apocalyptic world is so beautifully represented by the author in Angelfall. Beautiful you say? Yes, beautiful! When you read a book, and in your head you can see the world as vivid as if you were looking outside your window, that is beautiful. I wanted to take the world building in this book and yell to some of the YA authors out there and say, “See, this is how you do it”. Nevertheles
I suck at writing.So, I’m sitting in this post-apocalyptic world and it is has been overtaken by angels.
And these angels, they aren’t even fallen!Ok, so to survive in this world, you need to have some serious skills.
So, angels come along and destroy Penryn’s world so she takes her learned survival skills and transfers them to this post-apocalyptic world she now knows.The problem is Penryn can’t do it all.
Therefore, to wrap up this review, I’m going to tell you what I didn’t like…Towards the end of the book, some of the characters seemed a bit science-fiction-ey (totally made up word).
Dear publishers,Why do you publish so many bad books (I won't even bother to mention them, you know there are plenty), while wonderful stories like this one have to be self-published for us to be able to enjoy them?All I have to say is that this book puts some of you at shame.I wonder if this book would have been better if edited, or if it would have been turned into a boring commercial story as many others out there.I usually don't pick up many angel-books to read, as I find then not quite ori
Maybe it is because I was sick of all the fluffy reads with the good shinny angels and I needed something  different, or realistic, or creepy in a complete awesome way; or maybe it is just the fact that the story was so full of surprises that made me like it even more.The fact is that I really loved every bit of it, and I have to give a big thanks to all my GoodReads book friends, because without them I probably wouldn't have found about it.
I'm hemming and hawing to myself in regards to how I want to rate this thing.On one hand, it was super entertaining and I really liked the main character, Penryn.
Nice.On the other hand, however, I felt like the world building could have been, well, better.
I never really felt like I had a true feel for the state of the world and how the Angels figured into all of that.
Also, I typically prefer a little more romance in my EVERYTHING; however, this book wasn't about that and I didn't expect it, so that didn't factor into my rating.
Thanks to ACOMAF (a court of mist and fury) trying to pretend that it's a YA book when in reality it's a NA book and then shove sex scenes in young readers throats, I've been asking my GR friends to add trigger warnings in YA books.Nudity: NoneGraphic sex: NoneGore and blood: (view spoiler)[ Some of it.
In this post-apocalyptic world some people are being fed to monsters and it's a disturbing scene  (hide spoiler)]Dark themes: Some but that's what I love about it.
(hide spoiler)]Violence: Some, it borders horror but it compensates with playful banter and action scenes so it's never depressing or too scaryIan Somerhalder as Raffe!
5 “Angels are not fluffy” Stars ”I never thought about it before, but I’m proud to be human. We’re ever so flawed. We’re frail, confused, violent, and we struggle with so many issues. But all in all, I’m proud to be a Daughter of Man.” ➽ FULL REVIEW NOW POSTED:  yes full, after gr deleting this, I was mad, so now I have calmed and edited this review to a masterpiece. or at least i tried making oneBuddy read with Katie💙 . A wonderful experience I can’t wait to continue. WARNING: OVERUSE OF THE WO
Predominant reaction through the whole book:So usually for my reviews, I go into sections and tell you what I liked and what I didn’t, but this review is gonna be different.
I will disclaim and say I love Penryn, for sure one of my top heroines of all time.
Like is unrealistic, let’s be real, and that’s why I loved Penryn.
I think these are my favorite action scenes in all YA, I usually get so confused and missed most of the description, but it was nothing like that in this one.8.Goriness.
5 snowy white-winged stars!Big reasons why I loved Angelfall:Penryn is a real teenager.
Angelfall didn't need a cliffhanger to have me panting for the second book as soon as I put down the first.
Raffe is stoic and Penryn is a healthy mix of pride and wariness.
Then there's the barrier of species and that whole thing where Raffe's race is trying to drive Penryn's race to extinction.
I have faith that Raffe and Penryn can overcome the obstacles in time.
Yet another reasons I must have book 2 now!Little Reasons why I loved Angelfall:Winged Man Candy.
I love the evil angels trope, can't get enough of it.
Loved this book! So excited for the sequel! Here's my booktalk with my full review: http://youtu.be/8yfCvwn2m0M
Angelfall isn't the best book about angels that I've read, but it has restored my faith (har har) in the genre.
Evil, destructive angels out to destroy the earth?
What's the difference between evil angels and demons anyway?
Kick-ass heroine.
Both can literally kick some serious ass, Alison through her experience living on her own, Penryn through her self-defense classes, and a lifetime of dealing with a paranoid schizophrenic mom has left her a little more prepped than most when expecting the unexpected.
Did I cheer when she kicked Boden's ass?
I really did not enjoy the second half nor the ending at all.
Maybe my expectations were too high, but this book just didn’t live up to the hype for me.My main disappointment was the Penryn/Raffe relationship.
I have no idea who this guy is or what his motivations are or why he’s so drawn to Penryn.
And I have no idea why Penryn feels anything at all for him, besides fear/loathing/disgust/revulsion.
(hide spoiler)] It all seemed like a very orchestrated way to get her back with Raffe, and to allow him to save her.
And I like heroines who save themselves.(view spoiler)[And what was up with that whole fighting/betting system?
I liked this book WAY more then I thought I would.Action packed from page one, with an extremely dark feel. Plus Raffie.
