https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99499.La_loba_de_Francia
But since Druon thinks that Philippe was a relatively good monarch, the series jumps over his reign, and we are to follow his sister Isabelle, who is the Queen of England.This novel then deals with a fascinating period, the one that led to the revolt against Isabelle's husband, king Edward II, in which she, together with her lover Roger Mortimer, had a hand – hence the epithet Louve de France (the She-Wolf of France).What I also found disconcerting at the beginning was dealing with England in French.
Give or take a shepherds' revolt or two and the slaughter of the lepers, it would appear that Philippe's reign was uneventful compared to that of his predecessors and followers, and not worthy of inclusion in these novels.However, this book is titled The She-Wolf, and so we skip over the reign of Philippe V and go straight to the story of his sister Isabella, queen to Edward II of England; she who was known as the she-wolf of France.
I was a bit disappointed with the portrayal of Isabella who becomes somewhat clingy and desperate to please her lover Mortimer.
Five down - two to go.I am really enjoying re-reading Druon's series about the French royalty in the 14thC.Quirky style, but a very entertaining read.
She is the daughter of Philip the Fair and sister to Charles.In light of the power granted to the Despenser family by Edward II (Hugh the Younger was his lover), Isabella goes to France for an "extended visit" fearing for her welfare and the life of her son- Edward III.
They begin an affair that will lead to Isabella gathering forces lead by Mortimer and dethroning Edward II in favor of his far more capable son-Edward III, after a period of Regency by Mortimer-Isabella (of course).An excellent addition to this great story about the conflicts of the French Crown.
***Contiene spoilers***En este quinto volumen de los reyes malditos, la historia se centra en la hija de Felipe el Hermoso, Isabel de Inglaterra, quien curiosamente fue un personaje fundamental en la primera saga y cuyas acciones junto con Roberto de Arteois, contribuyeron a las desgracias de la familia real (además de la persecución y ejecución de los Templarios.
Es interesante ver también como la propia Isabel reconoce, en su relación con Mortimer, la falta que ella misma tachó con tanta dureza una década antes y que la llevó a conspirar para juzgar a sus cuñadas y dejar sin esposa a sus hermanos.
3,5 en realidad, un poco mas lento que los anteriores y muchos nombres nuevos a los que acostumbrarse, pero diferente por conocer mas la Historia de Inglaterra que de Francia en esta ocasión, seguiremos con los próximos 2!
After all, she was Philippe the Fair's child, and had his strength and keen political mind… The fifth episode of the "Accursed Kings" saga takes us across the English Channel, to the court of Edward II.
Nor has he given up his dreams of loving the beautiful, cold Queen Isabelle, the She-Wolf of France… He escapes the Tower and runs away to France to recruit the help of her brother, King Charles.Mortimer and his followers felt that the Despensers used their influence over the King (via his lover, Despenser the Youngest) for their own gain, to the detriment of the kingdom.
2.5 stars.Definitely my least favourite in the series so far.
I am sad, not only because the book before this was my favourite, but also because, while I enjoyed all the previous novels, I struggled with this one.
I was also disappointed in Isabella's characterization: while I loved her when she defied her husband and the Despensers in her first scene, for the rest of the book she was portrayed as a woman in love, with little political acumen or shrewdness.
Despite my disappointment with this one, I will finish the series.
Hopefully I will enjoy the last two books more.
While readers have revelled in the actions within France, with its kings and their decisions, Queen Isabella of England remains solidly on the throne, beside the less than kingly Edward II.
Daughter to the late Philip IV of France, Isabella seeks to weaken the English power by encouraging her blood relations to strike while the possibility remains fruitful.
When Mortimer reaches France, he commences plans to take the English down, with the help of troops whose allegiance to the cause leaves little doubt, but that will keep blood from staining Charles' hands.
Druon's great narrative moves the story along and leaves crumbs for what is sure to be an explosive next novel.Kudos, M.
Je ne sais pas si toutes ses pages que l'auteur a ajoutées ont vraiment servi au récit et dans certains chapitres où il n'y a que des citations de lettres, l'envie vient de sauter des pages entières.Et l'absence d'un personnage comme Philipe V, Philipe IV ou Enguerrand de Marigny se fait vraiment remarquer.
Je n'ai rien contre les zones de gris, mais les personnes qui passent de tout blanc à tout noir m'irrite un peu.Tout de même, la plume de l'auteur ne m'achale plus autant que dans les premiers romans, les chapitres sur le décès de Charles de Valois étaient très intéressant et le lent avènement d'Edward III à la couronne d'Angleterre est prometteuse.
I love the entire series, but this one is about a Capetian female queen, Isabella, married to Edward II of England who prefers men.
I learn so much, and yet, this time, I want to know exactly how much is true and how much he added in to help us identify with the queen, or to further the story.When I am reading this book, it takes me back to campfire days, when a very good story teller would be telling us stories, a little scary, very detailed, and would hold us in the palm of his/her hand.
Este quinto volumen comienza con un salto cronológico de seis años, de 1318 a 1324, y un salto geográfico, de la corte del reino francés a la corte del reino inglés.
En el transcurso de estos seis años en Francia el rey Felipe V El Largo ha muerto y su hermano Carlos IV ha subido al poder.
Al interior de la corte inglesa la reina Isabel es deshonrada y despojada por parte de su esposo Eduardo II y su amante de turno, Hugo Le Despenser.Los reinos francés e inglés se muestran los dientes, se amenazan hasta llegar al conflicto bélico en Aquitania, teniendo como fácil triunfador a los franceses en cabeza del conde de Valois.
However, I really wanted to read about Isabella of France (the She-Wolf), and I was hoping for her to be the yang to Mahaut d'Artois' yin.
The She-Wolf actually jumps ahead and skips over the reign of Philip V, the one good king in a sea of incompetent, corrupted dicks in medieval France.
Instead of the ruthless, empowered queen we've come to know in the history books, Druon's version of Isabella is a tad too vulnerable, especially when most of her decisions were swayed by her hatred towards the Dispensers and her love for Roger Mortimer.
Written in the late fifties and early sixties, and translated from the original French editions. Book Five focuses on Queen Isabelle ( The She Wolf) sister to the French King and wife of the English King Edwards. It is best if you know a little about the time span that makes up the "100 Years War" . The writing suffers a bit from its age, but still a good tale if you want to learn more about French History.
I have enjoyed the Maurice Druon "Cursed Kings" series (though I must admit that my memories of the French TV drama warm my heart and drive my liking for the books).
This, "The She Wolf", the 5th in the series continues to be an easy yet entertaining read.
The book has its over-the-top melodrama that either dates the writing or Druon's ideas of chivalry, but the political machinations pile high and out heroes and villanesses in the French court continue to make their welcome appearances.
Talking about appearances, I cannot deny that from about two-thirds of the way in I was awaiting the red hot poker....
If you like The Song of Ice and Fire because it's nontraditional in that major characters die and it's awful and exciting and it keeps you on your toes, you'll like this book series.
In fact, George R.R. Martin has an endorsement on the new 2013 addition, calling this series "the original Game of Thrones." And before they die, each character is his own tyrant, with his unique story, and the ways that their lives intertwine are well described.
En este tomo, Druon nos lleva de Francia a Inglaterra, en donde las cosas no estaban mejor que en el continente.
La reina francesa Isabel, despreciada por su marido, se refugia en la corte de su hermano y se une a los rebeldes ingleses, entre ellos Mortimer, quien acaba por convertirse en su amante.
Una cosa me molestó: noto cierta homofobia en Druon siempre que habla del rey Eduardo II.
Y no lo hace en desde el punto de vista de Isabel, a quien eso no le importaba desde lo moral sino desde su orgullo herido de princesa francesa, sino desde una postura aparentemente conservadora y moralista.
De cualquier modo, un libro que se disfruta mucho.
I wasn't as enamored of this book in the series as some of the others.
Part of that may be that the intrigues were too diffuse, or that I know the story of Edward II, Isabella, and Mortimer too well.
Or that I interrupted my reading about half-way through and read 4 other books in the interim.Or it could be that I find the Capetian Royal House of France BORING.
Yes, yes, I know--how can I find all that backstabbing, petty jealousies, infanticide, and corruption boring?
And about a hundred other books in stacks beside my bed.
Although the read starts a bit monotonous, the progression of the novel becomes really interesting by shifting the focus of the novel from medieval France to medieval England. This comes as a breath of fresh air to the read which was risking falling into monotony after the previous 4 novels. Now the story takes an interesting shift and an heir to the late king Philippe le Bel emerges.
The title in English is "She-Wolf of France". I have read more than my fair share of books on Isabella and Edward II, but I was still engaged by this author's treatment of the period. This series continues to impress.
Eh, my least favorite of this series so far.
Me encanta esta saga! y hasta ahora este es mi favorito! a la Reina Isabel:
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
OK, it's a series about French history - but then why call this one 'The She-Wolf of France' when Isabella and Edward only appear in a handful of scenes?
When we see the Despensers, however, it's hard to imagine that they could even find their way to the privy by themselves, never mind plot to have the queen of England murdered.Druon tells us that Edward II is 'handsome', a 'fine-looking man, muscular, lithe and alert' with an 'athlete's constitution'.
Like most of this scene with Edward, Isabella and the Despensers, it makes no sense.
Un cinquième tome qui m'a moins plus. L'ellipse temporelle, même si je comprends tout son intérêt, et le changement de "camp" ( ce tome est axé sur l'Angleterre) ont rompu le rythme de l'intrigue.
Probable el mejor de los 7 libros
Bouville since the last book has thankfully become a widower and had been sent to England on some other pretext but had actually been charged to arrange the marriage of Edward, the Queen's son and the youngest daughter of Charles of Valois had been waiting for a reply from the king but had not received any reply yet.Elianor Dispenser, the king's lover's wife, an ugly petty woman that tries to spie on the Queen as she plays chess with, Edward, a timid boy of 11 and the Queen's son and heir to the throne.
Unfortunately, this book falls into the "I didn't like it" category.
Although, very well written and related to English History (which is ALWAYS fascinating), I didn't like Maurice Druon's narration for this particular volume.Isabella of France is meant to be a legendary figure, a strong woman, sometimes accused of being downright manipulative.
With Druon's novel she is more the "She-Pup".
In the book, she is a lovesick puppy, obsessed with Roger Mortimer, with no ideas or strength of her own.
No. This does not sound like the same Isabella that landed in Harwich with an army to retake England from the nefarious Edward II.
Una lectura entretenida acerca de Isabel hija del rey de hierro, que decepcionada de su esposo el rey Eduardo II de Inglaterra, quien tenía una conducta licenciosa, se enamora de Mortimer, un noble inglés, con cuya complicidad da un giro en la historia de la monarquía de Inglaterra, al deponer al rey ungido por su primogénito que en ese entonces era muy joven para gobernar y que posteriormente será recordado como Eduardo III, recomendable como todos los demás libros de la saga.
What a terribly sad book.
