https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16599.Vampire_Hunter_D
Excellent book.
Excellent translation.I'm confused.
Why is it that other reviewers think that 'something is lost in translation'?
They are persons who have worked for many, many, many years in the original language (Japanese in this case).
Unless your Japanese is better than theirs', or you comprehend Japanese on par with them, how can you EVEN CONSIDER making such a statement!?Have *I* read the original?
I enjoyed the Japaense original and the English translation.Fantastic work about the far future in which vampires have given Earth its greatest technological advances after normal humans destroyed the world.
Similar to King's Gunslinger world in idea setting.A fun read.
the main male character, “D”, is the best vampire/dhampir I ever find (I can tell you exactly what he is or will spoil the story)… the main female character has her stupid moments, but most of the time she is strong and really kick some ass… the little brother of the main female character is really cute… D's demon hand is so funny that your will laugh...
Ok, I know that this is a nerd thing to say but Amano is a genious.
I’m still buying this serie only to see the illustrations (I addmite that after 5 books the story became a little boring).
I actually couldn't finish this book. The writing is just horrible. I really want to like it, the plot and setting are very interesting, and I loved the anime (both of them). The text reads very awkwardly, with over explained obvious details, or something explained one way only to read: "Actually, it was like this...". It reads like a series of breathless explanations of cheesy actions scenes written by a 12 year old that is too in love with his own hero.
However, I do not like the narration style at all.
I really want to like the VHD stories, but after wincing my way through the narration in the first four, I've given up on the novels.
I find that if I imagine it's being read aloud by some unknown narrator, it's less irritating to me.
So I think that if you imagine that the story is being *told* to you by an unknown narrator, the narration works a lot better.
I still don't consider it "well-written," but I do really enjoy the story and the world.
The translator uses excellent grammar that I myself have to get a dictionary to understand some of these words.The book is no where as detail as the movie.
And you finally get to learn what that thing is in D's left hand.D meets a girl name Doris Lang, but she is different from the Doris Lang in the movie.
And you found out that D sometimes enjoys the company of his Left-Hand.In this book and through out the other books, the main villain points out in a very sudtle way that D is the son of Dracula.
This is the original IP for the Vampire Hunter D Anime.
I feel guilty with my rating because I really wanted to like this book more.
It almost feels like the book is written for readers with the attention span of a pre-teen but I wouldn't let my 11 year old read it with the amount of gore, and foul language in it.
The book has already answered a few questions about the Vampire Hunter D universe I have always been wondering about and it does give me enough to want more.
Ја и јапански аутори се дефинитивно не слажемо, додуше узорак ми је само Мурками и то Рју тако да и није неки узорак.Ужасни превод на енглески je за Дарк Хорс 2005 радио извесни Кевин Лихи.
Не знам шта и како, али човек мисли да све што је под једном одредницом у лексикону синонима значи апсолутно исту ствар, ово није ни Гугл транслејт у 2016, спушта се понекад на ниво Јахуовог Бабелфиша из деведесетих.Аутор обожава да покаже, каже, понови, па и коментарише оно што је већ показао и рекао и што брате видим, и иде ми ужасно на живце.
Са друге стране, ово је изворно објављено 1983, и идејно је и даље јако и прилично свеже, чак иако је много ствари у међувремену постало милион пута виђена фора у анимеима.
BOTTOM LINE: It’s a great book, not terribly long, but well-written and quite entertaining.Vampire Hunter D is a sci-fi/horror novel.
In this far distant future, vampires have ruled the earth for thousands of years, ever since a nuclear holocaust in the early twenty-first century laid humanity low and allowed the vampires to rise to social and military supremacy.
It is in this time and place that the novels start, with their hero, known only as D.The story of this first book concerns a young woman named Doris Lang who’s been bitten by a vampire lord named Magnus Lee who lives near her village.
I liked the cartoon movie, so I gave it over 50 pages & just couldn't stomach it any more.
Humans fighting vampires 10,000 years into the future, a medieval world in many ways backed by super science.
Unfortunately, the author tried to draw a direct line from our time to that one & I found his reasoning completely unbelievable.The characters were paper cutouts, no more believable than the setting they were in.
All told, I just couldn't stay interested in the simple story line.
I'm sorry that it turned out that way because I was looking forward to it, but I just can't handle such poor writing.
After watching the incredible film "Vampire Hunter D: Bloodlust" and finding out it was based on a series of "Light Novels", I had to check them out somehow.
Thank God there are translations for most of the books.
I swear to GOD...
if I have to read again that "D" is "Young" and "Beautiful" I will become a hunter of vampire hunters myself.
I will definitely keep reading and I hope someone does a new animated adaptation, it is the kind of world and story that works better on a visual level.
When I was a kid, perhaps too young to watch these sorts of films, I fell in love with the movie "Vampire Hunter D" when it used to air on The Science Fiction Channel (now called Syfy for some reason).
I love the pulp style that Hideyuki Kikuchi writes in, I see that some reviewers find it silly, but I read a lot of older science fiction, so this is right up my alley.
If you love Vampire Hunter D, gothic horror, post-apocalyptic fiction, or weird sci-fi, I'd check this out.
Can't wait to read more!
This book was published 25 years ago, but it could have been published yesterday and still have the same vibe. I like this kind if sci-fi/fantasy books that seem timeless regardless of when you read them.I watched the movie some years ago and really loved the main character, very pleased at the introduction and how much info not released in the movie made the world of D much richer and interesting. Of course the story and secondary characters are somewhat different that the ones shown in the movie.Can't wait to read the second book.
Vampire hunter d is a mysterious story about a half vampire half human who helps this person named doris who was bitten by the notorious vampire count lee.this story gives lost of room for action romance and scary unnatural paranormal things.by far a really great book although the movie seems better to me
The books have spawned 2 animated movies based off of them, and the series itself was running 17 books at last count (in 2007.) It’s pretty well lauded for being inventive and fantastic and well-written.The plot follows a young woman named Doris Lang who hires a Vampire Hunter named D to kill the vampire that bit her before she turns into one of them.
D aims to protect Doris and her brother Dan from not only the vampire that bit her, but his daughter, the group of supernatural bandits that have come to town, and the townspeople themselves.There are a lot of elements in this plot.
I never thought much of the first Vampire Hunter D film because none of the characters were particularly likable & the story wasn't very compelling, so I wasn't expecting much from the novel to be honest.
Not a whole lot to recommend it character-wise, to be honest.In the novel however, D is basically perfect, gorgeous, the best swordsman & fighter ever, & way more special & mysterious than everyone else.
That doesn't make her weak.The other character I really loved in the novel was Magnus Lee's daughter Larmica.
This book is pretty much what you make of it. It's pulpy, vampire action with a badass, unstoppable protagonist against evil monsters. The descriptions of the setting are amazing if a bit excessive, the descriptions of characters are some of the most vivid I've ever seen. The battle scenes are phenomenal, written in the style of action-packed, over the top japanese light novels. The dialogue can be very awkward and stilted at times, but as someone that has been reading manga my entire life, I've grown accustomed to that sort of thing. A very fun read.
Combined with Japanese elements, the author’s own unique style and vision, and a lot of manga/anime influence, this actually blossomed into what was quite a quirky, different, and fun style.The story is a very simple white-knight and damsel-in-distress tale, made more interesting by the unique world Hideyuki Kikuchi has created.
I understand that she would be tired and in shock after everything that happened, but I do prefer characters to grow with their experiences rather than become more helpless.Vampire Hunter D is an interesting and quirky book, and certainly worth reading for its weird and wonderful world alone.
For others it's the way Kikuchi perfectly combines; from fantasy to sci fi, horror to western, just about everyone's going to find something about the series they like.This first book features D trying to help a young woman who's being stalked by the local vampire lord who wants her as his bride, a classic in the canon of vampire stories, which makes it a good place to start the series at since it establishes it's place within the myriad of vampire stories, rather than as simply an origin story for D.
She disrobes in an attempt to distract the man before capturing him in the tendrils of her skillful lash, but when he miraculously frees himself, she knows he must be one of the heralded Vampire Hunters, and she confesses she's been bitten by a vampire and needs his help.With that, this outlandish and dramatic tale begins, and it continues to heap genres, battle scenes, and plot twists on top of its spry foundation all the way to the very end.
Vampire Hunter D is the first translated novel I have ever read from Japanese to English.
The novel sets in a place in the near future where humans are hunted by monsters and vampires.
Before I had read this book, I watched the animated movie and thought it was alright (provided it was released in the 80's).
I was fascinated by how Hideyuki involved some scientific explanations for things that occurred throughout the book, and he provides the basic background as to how to vampires became dominant in a future where humans and technology seemed to have flourished.
I've being buying these books since the first time they were published and not reading...
Sometimes I am afraid to ruin a book by reading.
It was very interesting to read about the character that I had seen a couple years back on a manga movie.
I am anxious to read another book...The plot is identical to the movie but the book is better I guess...
The only thing that I was a little apprehensive is the all un-defeated character he creates.
Why are the vampires in power (or were), why the humans can't defeated them, what the humans are doing and so on...The setting could be better, the all landscapes...
Will Vampire Hunter D be enough to save her and her younger brother?I don't know what I was expecting when I started this book, and I was pleasantly surprised by what I read.
Far from it, it's a dark world that Doris dwells in.
Humans may have won the war against the vampires, but they are still terrified of the ones that they refer to now as nobles.D is an interesting character for me, which is new because I don't usually enjoy the dark brooding characters all that much.
That for me is beautiful in a very hilarious way.Anyway, I loved it and I look forward to the next book.
One of my favorite anime concepts; gothic fantasy horror meets post apocalypse distant future science fiction. Enjoyed the book but loved the two English-forged movies made from the concepts.

I've never been so pleasantly surprised by a book, and it's been long since I've been not able to put down a book.First of all, for those worried that the translation from Japanese to English would diminish the literary quality of the book, let me just say that the English version is outstanding, with colorful use of voice, and expert use of literary technique.
It really is a pleasure to read.Speaking as a fan of vampire novels, and a fervent fan of Dracula, this book delights on SO many levels, acting in many ways as a loving homage Dracula, Carmilla, and the Hammer Dracula films of old.
I always find it difficult to review a book that is translated out of it’s source language because I don’t know what is the original author’s work and what is the translators’ embellishment.
It’s not the usual type of book I read (in case you haven’t noticed, I’m a big fan of the classics) but I’ve been trying to become more diverse.A still from the animated feature.The novel centers around a vampire hunter named D (okay, that may have been a little redundant) who is seemingly wandering the plains and happens upon a teenage girl and her younger brother who just happen to need his services at this time.
So many interesting concepts. past and future blend together so well. This is one of my all time favorite books.
This book was...
I also usually enjoyed the way the book was written.The way it was written...
This was kind of strange and fun, but at the same time, it could be confusing because he was trying to let the reader come to conclusions and connect some dots himself.
This book would have been equally good without any of it.
It's frustrating reading such an interesting book and then coming across all of that.
I mean come on, really?[image error][image error][image error][image error]
**Summary** Rating: 3A nice introductory story with amazing lore & settings! If you can get past the 'odd' storytelling style, you'll be hooked in no time.Why did I pick this book?A friend recommended it, and I was in the mood for a light read with a potential of having a series to enjoy.Overall reading experienceThe storytelling style is a bit odd as you have a narrator who acts as commentator sometimes —differs a lot from your expectations, but once you get used to the rhythm, it is refre
I can tell that he is setting the stage for a long epic story.- Characters felt real and were nice.- Many plot twists which are spaced out through the book to keep things interesting and introduce the "fantasy" element of the series step by step.Things I disliked:There isn't much to complain about, except maybe the many plot twists that somehow feel like a dues ex machina sometimes...I personally didn't appreciate this a lot, but it wasn't so bad to the point I had to put the book down, mainly because the author was smart enough to use them as a mean of introducing important concepts.
It was extremely hard to get the fact that D resembles a older teenager rather than the man represented in the anime, something I struggled with throughout the entire novel, and will continue to as I read this series.Now, I will say flat out, the language and writing style of this book can get really annoying.
There are things in the world building that were amazing and once I got the anime out of my mind, I really enjoyed experiencing.
Or, if you are interested in reading an interesting vampire novel set in a unique world with a fairly interesting storyline, I recommend this book to you as well.
