https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180133.Science_of_Being_and_Art_of_Living
Lays the groundwork for understanding the nature of life and living. You need to know your Self before you can know anything else fully or with any reliability. Shows why transcending thought and experiencing Being is the basis of living a useful and fulfilling life and appreciating the glory of God's creation. The world is as you are. Live your infinite potential.
Very repetitive and boring. There are interesting passages but they are few and far between as the Maharishi keeps repeating himself about infusing your mind with Being and accomplishing this through Transcendental Meditation. I read the first 150 pages straight through and then skimmed through the rest because there was so much filler. I normally will read a book all the way through no matter what, but this was an exception due to everything I already mentioned.
The Science of Being and Art of Living describes the Ultimate Life that can be lived. The final chapters discuss the multiple paths available to Divine Living. No one path is better than another, but each person is most suited to a particular path. An excellent book. I know that it has been translated into many languages, so is available to many readers or different cultures.
It felt really good to read this book. It is a lot to think about, with concepts that are new to me, so I read it carefully. I believe I will read it again in the future. I've been trying the meditation (using my own mantra), and it does help me calm down. The messages in this book are beautiful. We need more goodness in the world.
This was a delight to re-read. Precious and uplifting.
I definitely think you can only really 100% benefit from this book if you are a TM practicer, but Maharishi's basic philosophy is beautiful.
I never knew before I read his, that on my own I was practicing transcendental meditation. So although I found the book very informative, I didn't like that it tended to wander a bit instead of sticking to the point. I'm rating it right in the middle because I'm retry neutral on the book as a whole. I'm glad I read it, but it wasn't the best/worst book ever.
People spoke well of him, he gave credit for the ideas he was presenting to his teacher rather than taking all the credit himself, he had set up a charity organization in 2000, and he claimed that all of the money being made went to these TM schools, and that he had nothing.But then I learned about these cultish communities his organization ran, the ridiculous prices his schools and communities were charging to teach TM, and when asked about the prices, he made some lame excuse along the lines of "Americans only take things seriously if they cost a lot." That's not anywhere near the actual quote, but you get the idea.
Obviously there is a good deal of thought and personal reflection that goes into a book like this.
And, it is a good idea, taught through the use of transcendental meditation.
TM as it is otherwise noted, was my original interest in this book, and it requires taking classes to learn the secret chant and meditation process.
and through transcendental meditation you will be able to ...." About half way through I found myself laughing at this and started to wonder if this is an Amway product.
The book and ideas are good, it just begins to feel like a sales manuel after awhile
A magnetic work of tremendous good will, this is essential reading for all members of the human race. Reading it is like a meditation in itself, as the sensation of absorbing it is soothing and nurturing. It is dense but never turgid.
hated, hated, hated, hated, hated, hated, hated this book. one of the few books in my life i've read that i grew so disgusted with it that... i think at the time i was at a filthy punk dive bar on bowery st in nyc, and i think i dumped it in the trash can in the toilet.
EXTREMELY boring and repetitive.
If you are a meditator, especially if you do TM, this is a book to keep as a reference by your side. Jai Guru Dev.
This is just a sales pitch for TM so it came off spammy so I didn't finish reading it
While the practice of TM has been nothing but incredible in my experience, this book leaves a lot to desire. Maharishi Mahesh Yogi seems too intent on demonstrating that TM has nothing exotic about it and nothing  whatever to do with a particular religion *cough*Hinduism*cough*—somewhat understandable given the original 1962 context of the book's publication, but also ironic in light of the clearly cult-like appendices that have accumulated in the intervening decades.
Put simply, you have to be ready for it.
This book is my bible. Written by the most beautiful wise soul.
Yeh I know, Mia Farrow...
But even if the Maharishi got a bad rap & deserved it or not this book is rather important because he sets out to show how you can use a simple technique and find inner happiness and serenity.
It does work, you know.
Just that in the years that came after 1968, TM grew into a megamillion corporation, and a lot of innocent people ended up believing hopping around in lotus position constitutes "flying"...
that so many people set forth to foreign shore (India) in search of something they could easily have found inside themselves without the expense..
well, I suppose we have old Maharishi to thank for that, too...
A great book, very informative, offering a good framework for meditation and organizing ones life and mind. This was one of my first books on the subject of meditation and has shaped my own meditation process - although i dont specifically use their technique given my current location and cost. I would recommend this book for those new to the spiritual path and meditation. Maharishis insights into how the ego based mind works and how this relates to the unifying source of life offers a nice simp
A great book, very informative, offering a good framework for meditation and organizing one´s life and mind. This was one of my first books on the subject of meditation and has shaped my own meditation process - although i don´t specifically use their technique given my current location and cost. I would recommend this book for those new to the spiritual path and meditation. Maharishi´s insights into how the ego based mind works and how this relates to the unifying source of life offers a nice simple framework and gives a good basis for building on. Worth a read.
I found this book to be a massive advertising and teaser campaign to pay money and attend a TM course. It wasn't insightful or inspiring. A lot of big words and big talk yet saying nothing at the end of the day. Whenever anything is about to be reached, they refer to the TM course and how it will be better explained there.
Easily one of the best books to firstly obtain an appreciation for the universal flow of energy how one can use it in their meditation and to appreciate the importance of kindness, compassion and PMA.
I cannot read enough "how-to manuals" for discovering the true self and core of being. Learning how to make peace with the workings of mind and spirit is a lifelong challenge but a necessary one for a fulfilled existence. Wise words from Maharishi for how to understand divinity among the mundane.
The subject of TM is something that seems to bubble up in my conversations from time to time, year after year. After finding a new friend of mine is not only a TM practitioner but was also raised with the teachings, I'm taking a closer look.
Incredibly powerful book for me!! The insights may be a bit hard to understand for someone not familiar with Maharishi's commentary. However, once familiarized with that framework it is absolutely brilliant and transformational!
Read is slow but enlightenment comes page .
yOGA BOOK - READ AS TREAT MENT TO FIBROMYALGIA
Maybe I'll pick this back up again some day...
This is the type of book, that as you go on living in life, sometimes, it just seems to find you. Again and again. Inspiring for those who are looking for spiritual re-awakening. Love.
beautiful.
A very good primer on TM but appears to have gone overboard WRT its integration in the system
