https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46544.The_Shelters_of_Stone
So don't bother even READING the previous four books; at some point in this book, Ayla or Jondalar will tell you it.I don't know whether I should be p!ssed that I spent all this time listening to the book equivalent of a 90's clip show or I should laugh my @ss off at the ridiculous joke of this being published.
I can't believe we had to wait 12 years for this book.
I feel really committed to this series, since I really loved the first two books, and liked books 3 & 4 just fine, but I was so disappointed in this book.
I am not sure what happened- my guess is that Jean Auel doesn't really want to write these anymore, so procrastinates by doing incredibly detailed research (is this really necessary at this point?
She has done probably 20 years of research when all is said and done), and phones in the actual manuscript.
Total Crap.
Enough of "Pleasures" and discriptive scenes of ice age Europe.
The series has gone from one of my favorite books (Clan of the Cave Bear) to something I almost didn't finish.
The series started crashing with "Plains of Passage" where Jondalar and Ayla "Pleasured" themselves across the continent while righing wrongs, curing injustice and improving life styles in their spare time.
Can't remember a single scene from the book, nothing happened (I think Ayla got drunk once, puked, and swore never to do that again - it could hurt the baby - whatever), **snore**
Utter crap. Pretend the series ended with Plains of Passage and Ayla and Jondalar had a baby and lived happily ever after.
Auel uses the same phrases and descriptions so many times throughout all five books that it drove me batty.
How many times do you have to tell the story of how Ayla acquired her animals, found Jondalar, was raised by flatheads, etc.
The same sex scenes have been described repeatedly in the last four books and every time one came up it disturbed me and grossed me out.
I do not need to hear about Ayla's "folds" and "hard nodule" or Jondalar's "tumescent manhood".
I could go on and on but I think you get the picture that this series of books really annoys me.
Auel has written a beautiful saga about prehistoric man, and if I weren't so attached to her characters and their fate, I would have chucked this book long ago.
She makes the same detailed statement 4 or 5 or 6 times.
How many times can she tell us, in great detail, of Ayla's special language for the horses?
I love the first 4 books (tho they are also quite detailed and redundant to a lesser extreme).
I still want to know what happens to my favorite prehistoric family.
Auel leaves you wanting to know Ayla and Jondalar's future, and that's even with an obnoxiously boring book.
...hindsight being 20/20, I would have wished that Auel had spent an ADDITIONAL 12 years revising this book and gotten a better editor instead of dumping this horrible parody of our beloved Ayla on her fan kingdom.
It's obvious from the writing that she doesn't care about her characters or fans anymore.
It's also my right not to buy any more books from her - not that she needs the bucks.This book was an insult to her fan's intelligence.
I think she simply lost her momentum and interest for the story in 12 years.
We love Ayla's story, but are real disappointed in this offering.
Certainly, this book has some "fill" that could have be cut but it doesn't distract from what is overall, a great read.
Ayla and Jondalar cross a great glacier dividing northern Europe to return to Jondalars people who live in natural spacious stone caves.
We anxiously await the sixth, and final book in the Earths Children Series.
Despite people telling me the first book was the best and later ones were not as good, I could not disagree more.
I will surely miss her when the final book is out and I have read.
This is a wonderful series of books.
1. The Clan of the Cave Bear ★★★★★2. The Valley of Horses ★★★★★3. The Mammoth Hunters ★★★★4. The Plains of Passage ★★★★★5. The Shelters of Stone ★★★★★I was worried that this book would have more conflict. After reading the blurb I was scared it was gonna be more like The Mammoth Hunters, which was my least favourite in the series. But this book was great. I love it as much as the rest of them. But I am still looking forward to finally finishing this series. The books are so long!
This book is not worth reading unless you fell in love with Ayla in Clan of the Cave Bear and Valley of the Horses and are desperate to find out how her story continues.
Each installment in this series is weighted down with the retelling of all of the previous books in the series, plus all the description that Jean Auel heaps into her books, to the point that this monster advances Ayla's story by barely a year.
The first was Clan Of The Cave Bear, followed by Valley Of The Horses, The Mammoth Hunters, Plains Of Passage, and now The Shelters Of Stone.
In Clan Of The Cave Bear, I got hooked on the story of the main character, named Ayla.
The books are set in prehistoric eras when people were still hunting with spears, living in caves and dodging mammoths on the way home.
Slow cavemen.) The author has spent a LOT of time researching historical facts and theory about the life of people and the environment they lived in at that time.
I ran out of books and my husband had bought this because he has a stronger constitution than I.
I will save you the trouble of reading the whole book, here's the condensed version:Jondalar finally returns home to the Zelandonii, with Ayla at his side.
Ayla is introduced to his family and friends and as she gets to know them they love her as much as every other soul on the planet does.
Example: "I was a lesbian until I came in contact with his jondalar!!" I really hate how much I hated this book.
I would have liked to like this one more since I waited so long for it, but it seems as if the author just get lazier each book. The research is amazing, but the plot, the characters, all of that fails more with each book.
Unfortunately no one else ever gets a look in at their own sex scenes, so we're just subjected to Ayla and Jondalar's BORING sessions.This book had the great potential to have a lot of strife, confrontation and conflict, which would create an actual plot.
The birth of Ayla and Jondalar's long-awaited baby is supposed to be the big climax of the book, but it only takes up a handful of pages, and Ayla drops the baby easily and promptly names it the most dull and uninventive name possible, without ceremony.
Throughout the whole book, but especially during the last few chapters, I really found myself thinking about the whole idea of discovery.During the whole series the main character, Ayla, is always figuring out new techniques and discovering new ideas and possibilities.
Does she mean to say that Ayla is the beginning of discovery, of a new age?In the real world, no one person discovers so many things on their own.
I think that these are important questions that are and always will be asked often, but I strongly believe that they will never be answered.
Then on page 273 Ayla asks why Jondalar is so clean and someone explains to her, in the same detail, about cleaning up after the burial ritual!All that unnecessary padding dragged down a great story about Ayla struggling to be accepted and learning about a new culture, appealing to fans of drama, history, and soap opera alike.
If 200 pages or so had been cut, SoS would be a fantastic book instead of a mediocre one.As it is, the magic of Clan of the Cave Bear isn't lost, and Ayla's travels have plenty of life in them.
What I find most amazing about this book is that Ayla somehow is managing to invent everything known to modern man.
Fire, domesticated horses, dogs as pets, baby food, etc...you name it, and the perfect Ayla is doing it.
It's too incredible to make the book seem real.
And she's too perfect to make her seem like a real character.
Not to mention, I am bored by the pages and pages of descriptive text about every plant, animal and cave dwelling Ayla comes across.
Except, I don't want to miss where she invents the wheel, and I assume that's coming since she has not invented it...yet.
más llevadera que la anterior, pero repetitiva en muchas ocasiones.
Leo por ahí que pasaron doce años desde el cuarto a éste y supongo que por eso hay cosas que la autora insiste en recordar al lector, pero algunas son innecesarias: el acento de ella, sus ideas sobre la concepción, cómo domesticó a los animales...
Le pongo tres estrellas porque hay un trabajo detrás, eso se nota, pero no es suficiente para enganchar.
A veces la documentación volcada a lo burro hace tediosa la lectura y todo queda al final en un libro sobre cómo vivía la gente en esta época y poco más.
Valley of Horses has been one of my fave books for years and I have read it many times.
I dont just mean Ayla explaining to new people how she found the horses or the wolf, but as an example there was an explaination about how there would be too matrimonial ceremonies at the Summer meeting - one at the start and one at the end and why.
Dude i got it the first time!And this happens with many different things within the book.
The only break from the description and repetitiveness was when Ayla and Jandalar did it and that got boring fast too.
That and between book 2 and this book, the sex scenes were coming on so hard and fast that you had the feeling it was because she couldn't think of anything better to write.
Instead, in this book, Ms auel is at least ATTEMPTING to integrate detail reviews into the story line rather than simply dumping paragraphs from previous books on us yet again, and has begun developing some new characters...
although the repetitive nature of some of those with previous characters is a little annoying.Clearly, while a much better effort than her last two, this book is NOT on par with Clan of Cave Bear, although fans of Alya will be placated.
This book was the fifth in a buy-four-get-one-free at the library book sale.)Rereading February 2011 in anticipation of the last book in the series coming out this spring.This book does not need to be 800+ pages long!
If only Auel didn't have Ayla tell and re-tell the same stories every time she meets a new character - stories that readers of the series have already "seen" happen and heard retold in the previous book - it would be much more bearable.How many pages do you think got used up by characters formally introducing themselves with all their ties and affiliations?

Ayla gets to know Jondalar’s family and the others in the Ninth Cave.
By the end of the novel, when she has to make a serious decision about her future within the Ninth Cave, I was just eager for something to finally happen.
She should trust her readers to be at least half as smart at Ayla.The novel is mostly padding, however there is some interesting information about the painted caves in this region of current-day France and about basic survival tools that these ancient humans used.
Jean Auel’s characters are lovable and interesting, as always, and I can appreciate the amount of research that went into the story, as well as her vivid descriptions, but there were also entire sections of the book that I struggled to get through (the first couple of chapters filled with introductions paragraphs long per person were a mind-numbing bust) and the book left me with a feeling that this was a bit of a bland intro to whatever story comes next in book six.I’ve seen people say in reviews that certain books lack conflict, and I don’t think that’s true of most stories, nor in this one, but the conflict in this book is very mild in nature.
This novel is book five in the incredible Earth's Children Series.This is a series that really must be read in order.In this book, Ayla and Jondalar finally reunite with Jondalar's people, the people of the Ninth Cave of the Zelandonii.
She is also happy to make a friend, a woman who has knowledge of healing herbs just as she does.
When I read this series, it was a long wait between each book (8 to 10 years each), yet I remember all of the books pretty clearly.
To decide to read the entire series is a commitment, but one that is worth it.
The only complaint I had was that Ayla was such an 'amazing' woman, that it wouldn't have shocked me if the author had her invent electricity, the automobile and the computer since she invented everything else known to mankind.However, reading this book now really made me wonder if they were as good as I thought they were.
This book was 900 pages and probably could have been 500.
I still think the premise of the story is good, but having to get through all of the fluff detracted from the actual story and lessened the enjoyment of reading the book for me.
I was happy Ayla and Jondalar resolved their "issues." I was interested to see if Jondalar's people would accept Ayla and how they would react to her story.I was really happy to get through The Plains of Passage, which I found intensely boring.
Yes I get tired of contrived problems and people being stupid but sometimes that is what drives the plot and creates a story to tell.
Reading this book is like reading an ethnography.
They are not fiction.I wanted to like this book but I don't.
But I wish there had been an actual plot.
The series certainly continued on a horrible downward spiral.
But why oh why did I read all of it?
It couldn;t have been simply compulsion to finish..
And why do I find myself thinking about the story and the setting so much, could it have been because I have read nearly 3,000 pages of it over two months of my life?
I wouldnt recommend anyone to begin this series.
But if you are halfway through, you might as well finish.
Okay so I admit that I am looking forward to the 6th and final book of the series!
This book is the one I was worried about most. I had been told that it was boring and was just about Jondalar and Aylas new life with the Zealandonii. It is but it's much more exciting than I thought. At times I was living experiences with Ayla and could feel all of the confusion, heartache, loss and joy each character experienced.By the end of thus book I was so excited for the last novel but extremely upset that I would soon be at the end.
I just couldn’t finish this book. There is a limit to how little plot and how much repetition and never-ending description a man can take… and I’ve reached mine big time here. Period. Nothing more to say.
