https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8521879-the-annihilation-of-caste
The second part of the book is the text of the speech 'Annihilation of Caste' itself, following by an exchange of letters between Gandhi and Ambedkar, and then a short essay on the Poona Pact.
He refused to grant them a separate electorate, despite doing the same for less populous religious groups.
The forthright points of his essay are that the treatment of these untouchables - the religious and ritual approval of treating them as subhumans - is the great crack in the armor of any Indian nationalist or any Indian society.
Although caste, a necessary adjustment by the society to keep the religion intact, has been objected by many other forerunners previously to Ambedkar, from Raja Ram Mohan Roy to Mahatma Gandhi, it has always sprung back with a rejuvenated force, for it derived its root from the fundamental philosophy of the Hinduism.
For instance, his reply to Gandhi's argument that everyone should follow his own ancestral calling according to his/her caste, Ambedkar flashes back with fervor:
I have concluded that this is the most scholarly work I have ever read.It was very much intellectually stimulating for me.This book is for those who want to want to know how to put forth an opinion, how an ideal speech should be written, how to be objective but still stand firm against oppression & injustice.
But rather than embracing message of the book of building the house anew, they are busy plugging the loopholes.In this work, Dr Ambedkar quotes everything from Plato to Veda-Purana, from Indus to Roman civilizations.
Ambedkar is clear, uncompromising, unadulterated.
This speech, which became a book, was too clear and too uncompromising to even be delivered.
I read it more than 15 years ago and remember so many quotes - caste is a monster, you cannot have political reform, you cannot have economic reform, unless you slay that monster.
It is from 1936 but it is relevant today, and still sounds fresh.
What's more, it is relevant for more than just caste in India.
This is an amazing book by an amazing author, who is rightly revered by millions of people in India.
In the introduction to Ambedkar's famous undelivered speech (probably the longest introductory text to any writing) , she targets only the facet of Gandhi that is deeply religious Hindu adhering to the caste system of the archaic religion.
A mahatma can grow from truth to truth."Ms Roy also introduces (at least to uninformed like me) the prolificness of Ambedkar.
The Undelivered SpeechAmbedkar prepared this speech for his last call to the moderate Hindus to see the light, to bring in reform, by completely destroying the religious sects that upholds the caste-system.
One reason for this is that those who belong to the upper castes do not want to give up their privileged position in society.
When one looks at their correspondence, Ambedkar makes far more sense than Gandhi.According to Arundhati Roy, who wrote a book-length introduction to this book, caste is the engine that runs India.
He was the only one who provided the much-needed leadership to the vast Indian population which responded to him brushing aside differences that are intrinsic to a heterogeneous country like India.
Gandhi worked with 'Dalits' and cleaned lavatories that no 'Brahmin' will do even in today's India.
Moreover, without a conscious attempt to do so, Dr. Ambedkar justifies why he continues to remain Gandhi's most formidable critic till date.
This is a book which must be read by anyone who believes that- social reform is as necessary if not more, than political or economic reform; that religion and customs should not be rules of law free from logical reasoning; that liberty, equality and fraternity are paramount to the sustenance of any society, and any faith that compromises on these principles must be thrown open to criticism and modification or even extirpation.By the end of the book, you'll find yourself wondering why history or society could not be more kind to Dr. Ambedkar or more judicious about its own future.
As the audience, you periodically wince, but you also enjoy the systematic dismantling of the Other - in this case, Gandhi and Hinduism.In her excellent book-length introduction, Arundhati Roy takes on the Mahatma and exposes both his disappointingly racist views on South Africa's blacks during his two decades in the country, and his damaging doublespeak on caste."Ordinary politicians oscillate from political expediency to political expediency.
Now the first thing that is to be urged against this view is that the caste system is not merely a division of labour.
This is actually two books in one: Ambedkar's famous non-delivered speech to the Jat-Pat-Todak-Mandal (an offshoot of the more militantly anti-caste wing of the Arya Samaj, founded in Lahore in 1922: members pledged themselves to a program of anti-caste propaganda, coupled with interdining and intermarriage) and Arundhati Roy’s book length introduction to it.
So let me take each in turn.Ambedkar's book first.The Jat-Pat-Todak-Mandal was a society for communal reformation.
So far, the reform movements within the Hindu fold had been to remove caste inequalities and get the "untouchables" (Ambedkar was one) into the fold of the mainstream, without challenging the tenets of the religion itself.
This is an amazing book.How much I wish this book were taught in the school.Then the kids would have understood the real situation at a much younger age rather than studying half baked and flattering stories about Indian leaders and Indian History
ভারতবরষের ইতিহাস তার ভুখণডের মতই বিসতৃত ও পরাচীন। যে অংশটা আমাদের বিদযায়তনে পড়ানো হয় তা মূলত গত দুই শতকের বিপলব ও সবাধীনতার ইতিহাস। বৃটিশদের হাতেই দুটি ভাগে ভাগ হলো ভারতবরষ। তার পঁচিশ বছর যেতে না যেতেই পাকিসতান ভেঙে হলো দুটি দেশ। সবাধীনতাই যে এই উপমহাদেশের মানুষের একমাতর পরয়োজন ছিল না তা এতদিনে আমরা বুঝে গেছি। সুশিকষার অভাব এবং আমাদের বহুযুগের কুসংসকারের আধিকযে আজও এই উপমহাদেশে হীনবল। আমাদের সকল সমসযার মধযে সবচেয়ে গুরুতর আমি মনে করি সামপরদায়িকতা। এই বইয়ের বিষয়বসতু এক বিশেষ ধরণের সামপরদায়িকতা যা

This is one of the most well-researched and thought out speech I have read.
A must read, not only for the way he dissects the caste system and renders it meaningless, but also for the brilliant oration.
I picked this up right after reading Ta-Nehisi Coates' "Between the World and Me".
While we have surely come a long way from the society Ambedkar describes, we still have miles to go before we can become the ideal society he hoped for - based on liberty, equality and fraternity.
Liberty, as in the right to free movement, to life, limb and property and more importantly in this document to your profession.
For an average reader it may take hardly an hour or two to read this speech-turned-article.
The BSP and BAMCEF activism in political and social arena that has given representation and power to millions of Dalits in recent times has the inspiration rooted in this book.
This also forms the basis for hundreds of millions of Indian dalits escaping the folds of Hinduism and embracing a new faith, majorly Buddhism.
Each and every word of the article is radical, revolutionary and rebellions.
Some believed, like Mahatma Gandhi, that the caste system (or even varna system) is necessary for a "stable social order." Some like the Jat-Pat-Todak mandal agreed that it was an evil, but looked for less radical ways to solve it, through inter-marriage and inter-dining (which did not gain popularity).
Dr. Ambedkar beautifully challenged the entire spectrum of apologists of the caste system, by directly attacking the Hindu shastras.
Dr. Ambedkar reflects the thoughts of Bhagat Singh, "Any man who stands for progress has to criticize, disbelieve and challenge every item of the old faith.
We are now moving towards another political revolution, and to strengthen it, we have to read Ambedkar.
Although I disagree with a lot of what Arundhati Roy has to say, her introduction sets the stage for Ambedkar well.Few of the (many) things I found interesting:On Caste- Loved Ambedkar’s definition of caste in Hinduism: “Caste is like a multistoried building with no exit and no staircase.
India might have needed a structure similar to what the Romans had (separate consuls and electorates for Plebs and Patricians etc.), given its stratification of caste.- Socialism is built on the idea that the only form of power is through property.
But religious and caste also defines power in society.
Religion is the root of all evil...
Every Indian should read this masterpiece.
While I thoroughly enjoyed Dr Ambedkar's rational arguments and his invocation of scientific temper and principles of fraternity, equality and liberty in the later sections of the book and his scathing retort to the Mahatma regarding the caste question, still I couldn't help but feel highly disturbed by his arguments and reasoning put forward for the destruction of caste system, in the initial parts of the book.
But then Ambedkar corrects/contradicts himself later in the book, when he defiantly declares that you can't paint a whole community by a single brush and consistently puts forward rational arguments in favour of individualism and the need to reject religions as the centrepiece of morality.
The book is everything that you expect it to be, even accounting for the high standards to be expected from the man who literally wrote the Indian constitution.
At every point in the book, Ambedkar, remains coolly rational and impeccably logical; at no point, loosing control of his arguments or becoming emotional despite his undoubtedly strong views and experiences on the subject.
An unexpected plus was the insightful and well researched introduction by Arundati Roy. Powerful, intense and every sentence supported by strong sources, the introduction is a pleasure to read.
Most important book I had read. He tears into the malaise of caste in the Hindu society. Bhimrao's erudite synthesis of this reply to Gandhi has inspired veneration for him. The essay has simply opened my mind. He supports his title from all different aspects history and fall of Hinduism, economics, culture, unity and identity for Hindus, the scientific evidence against 'eugenics criterion for caste' etc. This a truly scholarly essay for every Indian to read.
Arundhati Roy writes a very fitting and rebellious introduction to what is an outright rejection of caste and Hindu sacred texts.Hope this new edition of Ambedkar's magnum opus reaches more young minds.S.Anand's meticulously researched notes add to the depth of the argument.
I don't think a work this important requires a rating
Very well-researched, scathing and rational arguments..a very thought-provoking write-up.
From the moment I read this book, I have been asking myself, "What makes me a Hindu?"Passive acceptance of beliefs?Indifference to religion?Not following other religions?Fearing the umpteen number of Gods/Goddesses?Worshiping idols?Importantly, embracing the caste that I am born into?To be absolutely honest, I do not consider myself very religious.
As a result,unlike a learned person or a academician or even a practitioner I am unable and ill-fitted to defend or explain the foundations of my religion or my religious beliefs.
But Ambedkar makes a point, very simple, reasonable yet difficult to wholly accept, that Hinduism is nothing but a collection of castes.
This book is the undelivered speech Ambedkar has prepared for a conference.
Exclude the appendix and the introduction and the main essay is well thought through.
In the introduction, Ambedkar speaks about why the speech was not delivered and in the appendix, he gives his reply to Gandhi's reply to this essay.I felt the book is bit outdated since the social-political landscape of the country has changed a lot since the book was written.
Caste has a direct correlation to the votes and I wonder if Ambedkar ever dreamt of such a day would come.
For someone like me who has been privilege-blind and caste-deaf all their life, and utterly impaired in Indian history (My only education in history was through textbooks and reading them gives you an impression that all India was one big non-violent mass coming together against the only problem it had - the British) without any fault lines which , the annotations explaining a few of the terms that might have gone right over my head were a great help.
In my Annotated Critical Edition of AoC, I would just add the phrase 'LAWYERED' at the end of every argument he makes.
It was not given because when the proposed text was presented to the Jat-Pat Todak Mandal, a Hindu reformist organization the governing members of whom had invited the already-prominent Lawyer-politician Ambedkar to address them, it was rejected, no doubt because it advocated the complete dismantling and annihilation of the caste system.
The West is becoming increasingly familiar with casteism and its evils, and a book like Annihilation of Caste will serve for a long time to remind us of the need for the radical reform of Indian society and indeed, for all inhumanity that hides itself in the guise of 'religion'.
This is by far the greatest academic pursuit I have witnessed on casteism in India.
In this book (read Speech, which was rejected by Jat-Pat-Todak Conference as the views expressed were unbearable), Ambedkar starts with the atrocities of casteism, moves to make a case of the inevitability of its abolition in the pursuit of political and social reform, dives deep into the origins of it, refutes the proposed solutions doing rounds at the time as worthless and then goes forward to propose a base idea and a step by step approach to annihilate the system of caste among the Hindus.I was blown away by the diverse lines of arguments Ambedkar has put forward - history, anthropology, religion, psychology, politics and humanitarianism among others.
The views and opinions are fierce and strong and speaks a lot about how deeply Ambedkar thought of casteism and craved for a graded class-free society.Recommended, very much!
Dr.Ambedkar logically and exhaustively argues why Hindus must do away with caste-system.
Let me just state why i have deducted one rating point.A) That Hindus (or Indians) do not constitute a nation has been proven wrong.
Infact, it has proved many thinkers wrong that we have a strong sense of Indianness and continue as one nation.B) Terrible discrimination has always existed in the name of nationality, language, race, sects, religion, gender in almost every nation.
In Hindus it existed in the name of 'caste'.So, this is not an isolated case as the author seems to imply.
Quite a nuclear bomb of a book.History is rarely black and white yet biased reporting always makes it so.This book shattered a lot of the notions I had about Gandhi, India's freedom struggle and the caste system in India; this should be necessary accompaniment to our history textbooks.Additionally, Arundhati Roy's seething yet coherent introductory essay and S Anands copious notes (which introduce you to Roman History and many more prior works in civics and politics) makes this a great read.
