https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/578283.In_the_Fifth_at_Malory_Towers
Gwendolyn and new girl Maureen are both desperate to be cast as Cinderella and are shocked when quiet, timid Mary-Lou is given the role instead.Meanwhile older girls Moira and Catherine have to retake the fifth form again.
Moira is given the role of Director and is very overzealous.
Alicia who does not like to be bossed around resigns from the play.The girls showed a nasty side towards Maureen.
To teach Maureen a lesson the girls ask her to design a costume and learn a speech.
The writer is thoroughly chastised and learns her lesson.As Darrell and her friends head for their last year, happy hols.
I enjoyed this book. The play was a very good idea and showed how the characters we love are developing.
Finally Darrell discovers her 'gift'- a gift for writing.
The Fifth are putting on a play for the end of term festivities, and Darrell is asked to do the writing.
Both Gwen and a new girl Maureen fancy themselves as Cinderella- but who will the Fifth pick to fill the role?
Someone's sending spiteful letters to the Fifth's head girl Moira, but she's made so many enemies that no one knows who is sending them!
The second to last story in the series, it has such a happy ending it almost feels like the last!
Love these books - I read the series over and over again
Mais um ano divertido no Colégio das Quatro Torres... A Diana anda atarefadissima e a Alice está cada vez melhor nos seus truques e a Madmoiselle decide pregar uma partida ás alunas (que acaba por ser uma catastrofe)... A Benedita finalmente percebe o que realmente é com a ajuda da sua própria mãe e da sua inimiga mortal... Mais iram descobrir se lerem este livro!!!
If you are decent and truthful you are a Brick and a Good Sort and you get all the friends and goals at lacrosse and sweets from the tuck box tins and usually a position such as Form Captain, Games Captain, or Organising Jolly Nature Rambles Captain.If you are not a good bricky sort you are a fraud, a cheat and a beast who will suffer a variety of punishments, from being Sent to Coventry, Expulsion, plus attack from your Newly Awakened Conscience which you can't help but have because you are surrounded by Bricks and Good Sorts who you realise, too late!, could have been your friends if you weren't so rubbish.Now that they are almost Grown-Ups heading for The Real World, the girls are given the task of writing, producing and staging an entire flippin' panto!
Won this one in a writing competition, and the first time I read this, I found it very good. But the second time, it kind of bothered me how the girls seemed to bully and single out this other girl of their class. That was my main issue with this book. Other than that, it was nice and kind of interesting, though it did got a little boring from time to time.
2.5 stars I haven't read anything written by an author who knows how to write youths like Enid blyton!Though this book was hard to read as it had many moments of bullying and how to justify it , I definitely liked the ending !
A lot of bullying and unkindness in this one but Darrell always makes me cry at the end.
Vain competition for the role of Cinderella between the fluffy Gwendoline Mary and her even more ghastly mirror image Maureen; clashes of power between the uncooperative but brilliant Alicia and the hard, domineering Head of Form Moira; and protagonist Darrell desperately trying to hold things together and make a success of the play she and the musical Irene have created.And then there are the anonymous hate letters Moira keeps receiving...It all comes together beautifully.
And the knowledge that Darrell will triumph beautifully in teh name of friendship and hard work keeps it all from being too dark.And of course, darling Mam'zelle Dupont plays the most marvellous trick on her bad, bad girls.Hold it Darrell, while we slip away.
Hello everyone!I read this book in 2007.It's fantastic, really superb!It's all about school life...suitable for all primary school pupils to read.There are many incidents, stories about the grade five pupils written in this book.The stories are tremendously interesting.Some pupils are mischievous and often play pranks on different teachers. Well,I would like to recommend this book to all Primary 5 pupils to read.
I must hand it to Gwendoline! Imagine someone dresseed in curtains parading around school reciting Juliet's lines! This one has to be the best book in the Malory Towers Series!
Will not spoil your read!G R A N D GRAND!
In the Fifth at Malory Towers is like no other book Enid Blyton has ever written...
ten for sticking together in the end.Darrell discovers that she has a flair for writing scripts and lyrics, thanks to the pantomime, Irene and Mavis find their dreams turn to reality, at least, it's their first step towards going big and becoming huge successes!
It is a must read for Blyton fans or any person who enjoys sensible living!!
First of all, I don't know why GR has the background colours on these cover versions different to the ones I have, but anyway...I remember first reading the final two books of Darrell's time at Malory Towers when I was about 10.
All of Darrell's hops, dreams, fears and happiness whilst writing, and the form performing, this play/pantomime, I'm now truly seeing take root with every word I write.
This reread, In the Fifth at Malory Towers has really brought it home to me that creative writing is something I really want to try and pursue- and that I'm going to always do it for my own enjoyment, if nothing else.
I feel like it didn't fully resolve everything, and although the girls were a little sorry for their bullying of Catherine, they really didn't learn anything from it and all continued to tease her except Mary Lou. We're meant to see Catherine as a weak character for how she is, but although there is weakness in that, and that's good for us to reflect upon, we also need to accept that we're not all the same.
We accept that Mary Lou is shy and timid, for example.
I thought bringing Maureen into the book was an interesting way for Gwendoline Mary to finally see how she really is.
For a children’s book the writing was pretty good, and whilst I found the characters a little 2D, I’ll excuse that as there was a lot to jam in the 200 page book.My main issue with the book is the amount of rudeness and bullying which was passed off as being for the characters “own good”.
I also quite liked Darrel as well, and very happy for her new found writing skills.This is the first book in the series I read, however, I personally didn’t find it inhibited the reading experience too much, as there wasn’t any specific references to previous books other than a few times with Gwen’s character.
And I certainly found it to be a children’s book, I’d suggest for children of around 8-12.
It's good, once again! Tapi ada satu yg bikin aq bingung. Setau aq pantomim itu khan ngga ada suara-nya yah? Ini ada lagu2nya lho... Maksudnya para pemain-nya nyanyi gitu hehehe Entahlah! Dan gigi muslihat Mam'zelle tuh Maksudnya gigi vampir? Well yah...
Topping!
We bewegen langzaam richting eind goed al goed voor de meiden van Malory Towers en ik vind het helemaal mooi
My favorite childhood read. It makes me want to go to school there.
4.5 stars. I really really love this series so much.
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.
Reseña completa en mi blog http://estanteriaencantada.blogspot.c...
Gwendoline datang terlambat, teman-teman membuat Maureen memuja Gwendoline karena merasa mereka akan cocok.Tantangan semester ini adalah menyelenggarakan hiburan Natal yang harus dikerjakan sendiri, mulai dari ketua penyelenggara sampai para pemain.Moira yang menjadi ketua kelas karena dia dianggap lebih dewasa.
Di sela-sela kesibukannya, Darrel harus berhadapan dengan June yang merasa tidak puas dengan keputusan memilih regu-regu pertandingan.Muslihat kali ini datang dari June, di mana dia menggembungkan diri sendiri.Gwendoline sebal dengan Maureen, mereka bersaing mendapatkan peran sebagai Cinderella, yah mereka memang terlalu pede, emraa bisa melakukan apa saja jauh lebih baik dari siapa saja.
Tambah teman baru bernama Moira Linton & "Santa" Chaterine, dan Maureen Little.Moira Linton dan Chaterine merupakan anak-anak kelas 5 lama yang terpaksa harus mengulang, sedang Maureen harus pindah sekolah karena sekolah lamanya terbakar habis (Mazeley yang diucapkan secara salah oleh Madame Dupont menjadi Measley ^^, dan akhirnya populer di kalangan anak-anak dengan nama itu)Di kelas ini, anak-anak diberi kesempatan untuk memanggungkan pentas drama Inggris.
Moira pun menjadi berkurang sifat pemarah dan egoisnya dan mau terbuka atas usulan-usulan.Tapi satu hal yang menonjol di buku ini selain drama itu adalah Mam'zelle Dupont menjalankan suatu muslihat !!!.
Senyum seringai yang menyeramkan dari Mam'zelle Dupont mengejutkan anak-anak kelas 5, Ibu Asrama, Nona Linnie, dan.....
This book is about a girl's boarding school in England and all the fun part about it, from cheating the rules, pulling pranks, eating exotic and tasty dishes (maybe not for you, but I surely wanted to try them out) and games (boring!) to academia.
Also the ideal students were pretty good for a naive boy like me who thought that such people actually exist.Upon reading the book, I immediately wanted to go to a boarding school.
I, who hated every minute of my school life, wanted to go to a boarding school !
Pada buku ini saya belajar untuk bersikap asertif.
Ketika kita tidak senang dengan sikap orang lain atau kita merasa hak-hak kita tidak dipenuhi dengan baik oleh orang lain, cara terbaik yang bisa kita lakukan adalah dengan bersikap asertif.
Bersikap asertif adalah menyampaikan keinginan, pikiran, dan harapan kita kepada orang lain dengan cara yang baik, sehingga tidak menyakiti hati orang lain.
Nah menjadi penting untuk meluruskan niat, agar kita benar-benar tidak menyakiti hati orang lain.
Cara yang sangat hina adalah dengan menulis surat kaleng atau menjelek-jelekkan di belakang.
Ternyata surat kaleng itu menandakan bahwa penulisnya pengecut, tidak berani untuk menyampaikan pendapatnya sendiri dengan cara yang baik.
Working together presents many pitfalls, as Head girl Moira insists on getting her own way in producing the pantomime, and the universally hated Gwendoline Mary and her tag-along (and carbon copy)Maureen are chagrined to be relegated to parts in the chorus, when they had each hoped to be Cinderella.
As usual, Blyton does not shrink from exaggerating and mocking each girl's imperfections, and I was appalled at the way the "poison pen" letter writer was treated by the mistress.
For better examples of Blyton's school stories, see the Naughtiest Girl series, where the school is more progressive and allows sinners to correct their own errors.
It's odd that most people say that children these days grow up too soon in being exposed to all sorts of adult influences and mores perhaps before they are ready for them, yet, compared to the girls in these books, they are actually given very little responsibility at many schools.
Our team captains are seldom consulted on, let alone left to decide, who will represent the school; and even in schools I've worked at with a Head girl/Head Boy/Form captains etc.
Maybe it is a good thing that children are given more time to concentrate on what they are, after all, at school to do, but ...

