https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65345.Selected_Poems_of_Ezra_Pound
I would that the cool waves might flow over my mind, And that the world should dry as a dead leaf, Or as a dandelion seed-pod and be swept away, So that I might find you again, Alone." Similarly foreign were his most critical but eloquent stanzas regarding the abuse of political power and the horrific slaughter of English and American youths in WWI, which can be clearly seen in poems like "Hugh Selwin Mauberly": "These fought in any case, and some believing, pro domo, in any case...
some in fear, learning love of slaughter; Died some, pro patria, non "dulce" non "et decor"..." But still, the Pound that initially captured my heart, managed to shine even stronger with his Imagistic radical condensation.
I would bathe myself in strangenessThese comforts heaped upon me, smother meI burn, I scald so for the new,New friends, new faces, places!Oh to be out of this,This that is all I wanted save the newAnd you,Love, you the much, the more desiredDo I not loathe all walls, streets, stones,All mire, mist, all fog,All ways of traffic?You, I wold have flow over me like water,Oh, but far out of this!Grass, and low fields, and hills, and sun,Oh, sun enough!Out, and alone, among some alien people!

FrancescaYou came in out of the nightAnd there were flowers in your hand,Now you will come out of a confusion of people,Out of a turmoil of speech about you.I who have seen you amid the primal thingsWas angry when they spoke your nameIN ordinary places.I would that the cool waves might flow over my mind,And that the world should dry as a dead leaf,Or as a dandelion see-pod and be swept away,So that I might find you again,Alone.-Ezra Pound
The title of this collection makes it very tempting to write a one sentence review: "They should have selected better poems." While I do not entirely mean that, after all, which would be the better poems?, I kind of do mean it in that I don't think this collection is very good, nor do I believe that Pound was a very good poet.I don't blame Pound for four things: being obscure, altering the work of others and presenting it in versions of his own, being so allusive, or including words and phrases from other languages.
Lots of folks hate Pound for the worst of reasons. They love to throw around authorial fallacies and judge the content of his work by the way he had to live his life. Truth is, he was a selfish, evil man. Still, Pound gets me every time. After Ginsberg, he is THE poet in my book.The economy of his writing, the way he can express the infinite with what is utterly finite-- it's unparalleled. It is a pleasure piecing together the corroded fragments he leaves in his readers' hands.
Indeed, Pound was actually quite a talented poet when working with conventional meter and rhyme form, as this iambic section from Hugh Selwyn Mauberley attests:"The tea-rose tea-gown, etc.Supplants the mousseline of Cos,The pianola "replaces"Sappho's barbitos.Christ follows Dionysus,Phallic and ambrosialMade way for macerations;Caliban casts out Ariel."Displayed here is a subtlety of rhythm and agility of rhyme that is truly unique.
And beyond any technical aspect, Pound is voicing a deeply sour cynicism with a timeless wit that could easily have come from the book of Euripides.
For those of you doubtful of Pound's ability as a poet, please look up Mauberley on the Guttenberg Project site.
But was fairly disappointed.
There are a lot of things to enjoy in the book.
The shorter poems, the ones translated from east-asian poetry, or the ones created in that style.
The ones written in fairly ordinary english.
However, there is a LOT in this book which was just totally useless to me.
Stuff which had ancient greek references thrown in every 2 seconds, which I didn't understand, and I'm not even sure were real references or just gibberish.
Just random greek names which had to meaning to me.
Some of the east asian poetry has the same issue.
I thought I might enjoy Selected Poems by Ezra Pound, until I realized it was full of poems by Ezra Pound, which was both downer and drawback. I yield to no one in my admiration of Pound, except for his writing, which usually is unreadable, and his ideas, which usually are full of shit. Other than that, great stuff. And he did lend a helping hand to Yeats, Frost, and Eliot. There was a generous spirit swimming somewhere in all the bilge.
No notes?!
I hate Ezra Pound. The only good thing he ever did (besides translate Li Po) is edit the Waste Land. Il miglior fabbro my ass!
Unfamiliar as I am to many of these stories, I 'lost' some of the imagery Pound was attempting.
I thought the famous 'Cantos' were worthy of the praise they've received (these were the only works I'd heard of prior to reading) with (to me) Cantos XXXVIII and Canto XLV - "With usura" biting.
I read portions of the Cantos aloud to my daughter and felt Pound's work had a clarity when read aloud that was often lost (to me) when read silently.
I'm not a specialist in poetry, but I think that there should be a better selection of poems. It is very poor in comparison to The Cantos.
Industrialization and the formation of metropolises brought people together in different ways than had been seen before, and the effects of these changes greatly impacted Pound’s work.One of his earlier poems, published in 1916 in the magazine Poetry and also found in this conglomeration, Selected Readings, was On a Station of the Metro, a good example of Imagism:“The apparition of these faces in the crowd;Petals on a wet, black bough.”This poem highlights and begins to summarize the issues spoken of through Pound’s lens.
This is Pound as an imagist; he chopped down his poem to something that could most easily reflect his experience.In this case I think he did a good job, for the most part.
I like poems of Ezra Pound when they appear in anthologies mingled with others' work.
But this particular volume was too cerebral for me.
Almost every poem was based on some Greek or Roman or Chinese literature that I knew nothing about.
The reason I love TS Eliot so much, as I explained in my review of The Wasteland, is that even though his poetry makes no logical sense to me, I've always felt like that's not really the point.
Even though I don't understand a word of Eliot's work, I can at least recognize that it is beautifully and masterfully written, and that alone makes it enjoyable for me.
Pound, on the other hand, just makes me feel like a moron for not understanding poems like this: "The ReturnSee, they return; ah, see the tentative	Movements, and the slow feet,	The trouble in the pace and the uncertain	Wavering!
Always read about how important he was for modernism in England and America, so I just had to give him a shot.
It's important to know something either about the poetry of the chinese,japanese haikos,greeks,romans,traboudours, metaphysical elizabetheans- and others- and/ to know something of their language because, Pound is a multilingual and most of work will appear dense,foreign and confusing unless you have experience reading a lot.
Knowing only a decent amount of french and a table-spoon of latin, much of his verses are still engimas to me.
One day once I read more literature from around the globe, I'm confident I'll be able to see Pound's splendour much clearer.
Beautiful.The Tree"I stood still and was a tree amid the wood,Knowing the truth of things unseen before;Of Daphne and the laurel bowAnd that god-feasting couple oldthat grew elm-oak amid the wold.'Twas not until the gods had beenKindly entreated, and been brought withinUnto the hearth of their heart's homeThat they might do this wonder thing;Nathless I have been a tree amid the woodAnd many a new thing understoodThat was rank folly to my head before."
Not bad. Some I had no idea of what he was saying. I enjoyed the alliteration and rhythm of The Seafarer. A Station Of The Metro was quite vivid. Meditatio was clever and the River Merchant's Wife was exquisite.
Вълшебно се изразява този човек. И не е за един прочит, определено.
Was there ever a more overrated poet than Ezra Pound?
Приятен като полъх на летен вятър. Галещи, но и поучителни думи.
This was one of those books that makes me feel like a moron. I can tell there are probably brilliant things happening on the page, but . . . I don't get it.
only because it has the A River Merchant's Wife: A Letter -- the best translation of all. WCW and I think even Raymond Carver among others translated this poem from Chinese and Pound's is the best.
The stunning lyricism and rhythmic beauty of this stand out collection is truly breath-taking. A giant in poetics .
There were quite a few parts where there was like an old Greek lettering (I think) which I did not understand.
It seems that the collection was compiled from many different periods so as far as the book edit goes, it could have used some original publish dates or a time line in the foreword.
As far as ezra goes, it should be noted that a lot of his poems clearly sexually objectify women and it is said that he was anti-semite, but I didn't see much of the anti-semitism in this collection (as far as I know).
I found the foreword by T.S. Eliot very interesting.
He was honest and said the good and the ordinary about the poet.
Frankly speaking that was the most interesting part about this book.Sure there was a few works that I quite liked.
But Ezra Pound is just not my cup of tea.Not to say that his works are bad.
They are just not breath-catching.
They were not boring.
Just too ordinary and yet.
His style of writing was impeccable and shined in every piece he wrote.So I think this book for me is described in two words : stylish and ordinary.
Though antisemitic at times (for which he later apologized (to Allen Ginsburg in particular)), one helluva wordsmith.
Ezra was clearly a genius. And yet, somehow, I can't shake the feeling that in reading this, I've observed him having an orgasm.
3.5*
