https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16087857-wicked-ties
***2.5 Stars***Allow me to share my feelings on this book in one, concise gif.That's it.
This feels so good.
I feel a connection with her.
And then the inevitable switch is flipped, and you guessed it...everyone's in love.Also, I couldn't wrap my head around how all the characters handled the topic of cheating...whether reacting to it, having it inferred or participating in it.
As though the act can be so easily explained?PLEASE NOTE: There is no actual present day cheating in this book.
Not the handling of it.
Definitely not Jack and Morgan's initial getaway.So what was good about the book?
If you like your hero super sexy, smoldering hot, dirty talking and ready and determined to fulfill all your fantasies, you must read Wicked Ties!!
Jack Cole is sex on a stick and he’ll have you squirming and panting from the beginning to the end of this amazing book!!!
This is definitely one damn HOTTT and steamy read, but it’s also a really great and well developed story with amazing characters!
It is the one of the best written erotica books that I’ve read to date and definitely goes on my all time FAVS list!!
Warning: This book contains a whole lot of graphic sex, including but not limited to BDSM, menage and anal play.
A 5 star rating, on the other hand, means that the book really impressed me.
There was a lot of sex, naturally, but there was also a very touching development of love between two people.
Some will ask "how can a love story be found in BDSM?" But Jack doesn't see Morgan as inferior or weak...
It's a good love story and it's also very hot.
I can’t even put my finger on what it was about him that was so compelling, so demanding, so… perfect.When reading an erotic book like this I don’t expect much in the way of storyline or character development but I have to say that Wicked Ties has it all.
Fantastic story, amazing characters, incredible sexual tension… I couldn’t put it down and in fact, Wicked Ties turned out to be one of my favorite reads in a very long time and Jack Cole has a place of honor on my Top Heroes reading shelf.Sexual Content: Yes. That is to say, this book contains just about everything except m/m.
The constant, repetitive inner monologues about whether her relationship with Jack was a good idea or not and whether it made her a whore or whatever were *killing* me, especially after she had already had sex with him a few times - she really didn't have so much at stake at that point that it should have been quite such an agonizing decision each.
If she has red hair, she must be the woman in the dream!" Ack - I wanted to hurl this one across the room.
5+ stars - Romantic Suspense/Erotica/BDSM/MénageYOWZA! It's difficult to adequately review this book because author Shayla Black successfully weaves so many elements into the story. Anyone who appreciates well written erotica, especially with aspects of BDSM (D/s) or Menage should read this book. Wicked Ties is highly rated and recommended by/for erotica fans for good reason. This book is scorching HOT! It's definitely one of my very favorite erotica novels. I loved it! Be sure to have a glass of ice water nearby when reading this!
That would have been my sexual fantasy ;-) I wish he had been a little more sensitive than hulking and scowling--but I guess that is pretty much the norm for these brooding dominant male we tend to love so much...
When Deke was introduced to the story I started to get back into the story b/c he brought some of that playfulness, coddling and sensitivity I was yearning for.✳✳ Reviewed on I ♥ Bookie Nookie Reviews___________________________________________________If you like this type of book, you might enjoy one of these groups.
Check us out!Menage ReadersErotic EnchantsBookie Nookie's Erotic Lending Group
2.3* I wanna change Massachusetts with Romania, works here as well...Wow... This was like a bad Z-movie, a bad porn, Z-movie(and I am claiming artistic license for any repetitions or pleonasm :D)! The hero is a bully who doesn't know what he wants and the heroine kept along with him... He's an a-hole to her, fu*ks up the D/s concept and send her supposed fiancé((view spoiler)[actually, her half brother (hide spoiler)]) a sex video with them. After that he thinks she won't understand why he wants
After that he thinks she won't understand why he wants revenge on her "fiancé", as though it's normal to lure a woman to you, f*ck her, lie to her and change her perception of herself, but she should just go along...
Furthermore the word choices were just WRONG: who the hell says "his stalk", or another great example "muscle slabs"; yes, both of them in regard to sex, I don't find them sexy or alluring or attractive, just the contrary!
On a side note, this was a good way to let go of my stress.
Wicked Ties is probably one of the better BDSM books that I’ve read.
It was scorching HOT, but still had a lot of heart in it too.I don’t usually care for heroines in a lot of erotica romance novels, but I found that I really liked Morgan.
It definitely made her submission in the end worth it.
Yeah, Jack is definitely a Dom who knows what he’s doing.
I love him!In addition to the scorching hot sex scenes, I loved the whole stalker investigation and the ending was GREAT!
What a way to end a book!
Wicked Ties has more heat than the fire from an erupting volcano.
This erotic tale of Jack Cole, ex-Special Forces soldier and experienced dom, and Morgan O’Malley, TV show host who denies her submissive nature, brings new meaning to the word SEXY.
As Jack encourages Morgan to embrace her fantasies, he pushes her to submit in ways that will probably make you want Jack to say “Good girl” to you too.
Wicked Ties is a lush, provocative and enticing story that is a must-have for every erotica library.
This made me get more books by Shayla Black from the library because that woman can write one steamy sex scene.
Not to mention a whole book full.
Not to mention her hero is hot and sexy as all get out.
This is one steamy book that deserves a rereading on a cold winter's night.
I liked knowing a little bit about him in this book first before I read that one.
(And he is worth knowing - yummy!) This book has quite a bit lighter S&M (nothing too scary but more than just blindfolding) and a threesome near the end.
I'm not sure about this one...It had all the characteristics of a classic romance novel with the added twist of the D/s relationship between the main characters and a dose of crime/thriller just to make things a little more interesting.
The sex scenes were scorching hot and I enjoyed them profusely, the BDSM elements believable and well rendered.But I found myself wanting to skim through both characters' page-long internal dialogue and tormented thoughts, Morgan's constant "he-loves-me/he-loves-me-not" and "does submission make me a slut" moments.
This book is definitely in my top 5 favorite erotica novels. I LOVED it! Im not going to review this book. I don't think I can do it justice ;D Just know that I LOVED THIS BOOK. Everyone who likes erotica especially with a BDSM theme should read this book. HOT! Read it. Now.xoxo
2.5 starsOnly one thing could stop me from liking Jack Cole and that is his petty attempt to get back at Brandon Ross, a good guy, as it turns out, (who is Jack almost stupidly seeks vengeance from) but hell...that is the main plot of the book, and though already a flimsy premise, it is weakened by a subplot of a stalker being after the heroine/damsel in distress, Morgan, and another subplot that just screams that this story is doing way too much.
So the plot goes on.It isn't very believable that this heroine is audacious enough to be a talk show host(aka: serious, investigative reporter/researcher) because she abandons her goal quite handily when faced with Jack Cole, and of course having to be protected from a stalker doesn't help.
Le había puesto 3 estrellitas pero después de un tiempo (y varias relecturas) le subo una porque, a pesar de que la historia es como de coña, siempre disfruto y el aljagfjakdgfalkjsdgflaksjdf (a pesar de que el bdsm no es lo mío) me encanta.
Me ha pasado una cosa curiosa con este libro. Y es que las escenas eróticas me han gustado mucho, entre otras cosas porque no puedes quedarte impasible ante el amo Jack. Sin embargo, la trama es de lo más absurda, sin sentido, no hay por donde cogerla.Es innegable que esta autora escribe muy bien las escenas de alto voltaje, pero flojea muchísimo con respecto al argumento, desarrollo y ritmo. Todo esto me pareció un tanto cómico.Solo por Jack y sus momentos guarronacos le daría las 4☆ pero tengo que ser honesta así que se queda en 3.
This story was ok... I found the characters 'reflecting' too much, reiterating what they were thinking ALL THE TIME ..to the point where the story was getting boring for me. It took me a lot longer to finish this story than it normally would have, had the story had a better pace I would have gotten into it more. I loved Morgan and Jack together, and the whole idea of the stalker..but the writing was kinda lame for me. I so wanted to like this book!
parfavarrrrrrrr Jack Cole, loca me he quedado
What do we know, Jack is also a bodyguard,which at first I didn't buy it,I just thought he was yet another male trying to get in Morgans panties for a present......I was wrong (well sorta),it was a darn shame too cause he is mighty fine!The sensual heat index between this couple was boiling, enfuego(crazy-hot)in my undies!
I want you to scream my name when you come." *SWOON*LUV, LUV, LUV this book!!Morgan is hiding out from a stalker and happens on Jack Cole, a super hunky body guard that awakens her submissive nature.
Jack Cole is one HAWT cajun!!
Your privacy, your body, your pleasure." (Jack)"If you want something, cher, drop the towel.
I'd confess that I dreamed about you before I ever met you, and that the first time I got deep inside you, I think I knew that you were meant to be mine." (Jack)"Your wish is my command...sir." (Morgan to Jack)
#RetoIntimo6Relectura disfrutadísima. La historia, pues bueno.... lo que más me gusta es la aceptación de Morgan sobre lo que siente y le gusta. Pero, señoras mías, las escenas de sexo son.... AWWWW, no tienen desperdicio. El amo J es da bomb. HOT HOT HOT y muy muy intenso. Las 4* son para Jack, absolutamente. Qué ratos me has dado "Señor". AMÉN a todo
Oh, my gosh...Really??? Mildly spoilerish--discussing events of the first two chapters of nineteen.Early in Wicked Ties, Morgan O'Malley, TV sex talk show hostess, is having her first face to face meeting with Master J, a respected local Dom who has a bodyguard company, at an outdoor café as a prelude to having him on her show. Even though she has a successful sex-themed talk show, Morgan is completely out of touch with her own desires and needs, and she doesn't know what Dominance and submissi
Mildly spoilerish--discussing events of the first two chapters of nineteen.Early in Wicked Ties, Morgan O'Malley, TV sex talk show hostess, is having her first face to face meeting with Master J, a respected local Dom who has a bodyguard company, at an outdoor café as a prelude to having him on her show.
Even though she has a successful sex-themed talk show, Morgan is completely out of touch with her own desires and needs, and she doesn't know what Dominance and submission really is (sure, that is credible).
Quick review:Cover: Interesting Rating:  NC-17Steaminess:  HOT Thumbs Up:  3.5Overall: Had to stop rolling my eyesCharacters: SolidPlot: A bunch of events tie together that cause chaos for the female leadPage Turner: Sure Series Cont.?
Not Sure Recommend:  YesBook Boyfriend: JackSUMMARY (50 words or less)Okay, the set up in the book had me rolling my eyes.
Even though those are tied up in a messy bow towards the end, it was hard to enjoy throughout because of that.For a full review and yummy pic, see my blog post at:http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2...
Audio ReviewLexi Maynard did a good job with the narration.
I’ll listen to another book with her narration.
THIS IS NOT A GENRE FOR ME, lol.
I really did try to like it as so many other paranormal romance fans seem to enjoy it, but I just can't get to appreciate them.
I made a mistake picking this book to read, I had no idea what it was about.
I'm not saying it's bad, don't use my review as an excuse to don't read it, just know that not because you enjoy paranormal romance or contemporary romance you will like this series as well.

Every so often I need to scratch my itch and read a good erotic book.
I like erotica but I don't read them that much and I've now figured out why....It's because there is barely a storyline.
I get that erotic novels are mostly about sex, but is it that hard to have a storyline to go along with it??
This plot was too weak for me.
I find that I enjoyed Shayla Blacks writing and would like to read more of her books, preferably this series.
I just hope her plots are a little more in depth.
4 wicked stars!!The story in this book is actually pretty good!
A stalker is after Morgan, a talk-show host, and she ends up in the arms of Jack, a bodyguard who also happens to be a Dom. Jack has a plan to dominate Morgan, she is willful and resistant but in her mind Jack's game is exactly what she wants.Morgan has some secret fantasies and Jack is more than capable of making all those fantasies a reality and it left me with my mouth hanging open!
I like an ending that is just a bit more warm and fuzzy, but that being said it didn't ruin the whole book for me, just left me panting for more...
This review was posted at Under The CoversHave you met Jack Cole yet?
Ms. Black will transport you to the swamps of Louisiana with these two, especially with the hot cajun Jack Cole.
She needs protection and only bodyguard Jack Cole can offer it.
But Jack doesn't want just a lover, he wants Morgan's submission, total and complete.
He wants to be the one to see to her needs and to her pleasure, to have her complete trust.
That she wants it, even needs it?
He does have hidden intentions, and when he finally figures out he has true feelings for Morgan, nothing will keep him from her.
I know its erotica and menage is perfectly normal for this gender, hence, I was feeling uncomfortable reading it because it was evident that Jack did not wanted to share Morgan with another man, although he did it himself in the past.
But in this case Jack was emotionally involved and wanted Megan to keep to himself and I wish the author would choose that route..the book itself was hot enough to carry without the menage element..for me it took away something special between Jack and Megan..,I know i am very picky and selective but even my erotica has some boundaries and menage is something I do not enjoy especially when a hero is head over heels with the heroin..I just felt cheated..WHY the author had to spoil this book???
WHY MEGAN would want another man when she already had sexy delicious Jack?
some parts of this book had me blushing.This is the kinda book that you almost have to read in one sitting, because once it starts there literally is no good place to put your bookmark in and say "I'll come back to this later"....seriously even if your house was on fire, you'd probably not even notice.
hot, hot, hot...The connection between all of the characters was very believable, Morgans struggle with the situation with Jack seemed pretty realistic as far as her struggles with what was happening.BUT.....I'm giving this book 3 1/2 - 4 stars for the "soap opera" drama that occured towards the end of the book.
