https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65474.Love_s_Unending_Legacy
Loved this book in the seires, back at their home. I loved seeing the characters all again and Marty's little plot twist. <3 Can't wait to read book six!
I enjoyed this story. It chronicles the life of a growing family and has a small amount of romance. The story is clean, easy to read, and touching. My only complaint would be that some of the problems are overcome too easily. I love that the book talks about relying on God, but even when you are able to rely on Him and accept that your trials are for your good, there is heartache and struggle. Nandry in particular struggles for so long, then is able to completely accept everything after one conversation.
In this book, Marty and Clark return from their long visit out west to see Missie and family, after a terrible accident that left Clark with only one leg.
Marty takes a long time to recover from the journey, prompting her family to worry about her.
Only Ellie is left at home, and when Ellie falls in love she can't imagine how she could ever break her mother's heart by leaving too.It's very light Christian fiction, but the characters somehow get under my skin and I found myself with tears in my eyes two or three times as I read this book.
This is probably my favorite in series, because this book is about Clark, Marty and their children that are still at home. When I was reading the books that were more about other family members, I found myself wondering, What is happening at Clark and Marty's house? Not that I didn't like the other books, I just missed reading about Clark and Marty. I love how Clark and Marty are so in love, because at first, Marty didn't even talk to Clark. I LOVE the movies, but I LOVE the books more.
Finally getting back into this series; I had missed it.
She went to visit Clare and Kate who had moved into the old house to see what changes they had made and she was waiting to meet Arnie's girl.
Marty felt guilty that she wasn't very excited about her new baby but learned to love it after it started moving.
Marty thought it might be that Ellie was afraid of leaving home.Clark had a talk with Ellie and told her that her mother would rather have her happy and Ellie was relieved.
Marty felt guilty for having prayed that God take her child rather than Clare & Kate's.
Book 5 in the Love Comes Softly series. Marty and Clark has just returned home from their long stay out west with Missie. A few surprises are in store for everyone. Including births, unexpected deaths, marriages, kids leaving home and someone receiving quite an inheritance. The moral of the story is that the best gift you can leave your kids is good values. It was neat to learn about some of the other family members. I truly love Ellie and Lane!!
Beautiful series of Christian fiction.
4.5 stars.
Nandry says "Does Kate feel God has a right-- thet He was fair to do what He done?" (my emphasis) and "Ma, we know thet God could have saved thet there baby fer Clare an Kate iffen He had wanted to--just like he could have saved Pa's leg iffen He had put himself out some." My first problem is the statement that God did what he did or put differently, that God caused it.
Somehow God is Sovereign and ultimately has control, but I don't believe that it is right to say that God causes the harm that comes to people.
So with this in view, I think it is wrong to question what God could have done to prevent a specific tragedy and it is even worse to ever imply that God caused it.
The LaHayes go out to visit Willie and Missie and someone comes to stay and care for their farm - Lane, Willie's ranch hand.
Lane spends a good amount of time with the Davis family and falls in love with Ellie.
After talking with Clark and Marty, Ellie is at peace with going west, so she and Lane can marry.
Clare and Kate are expecting baby and so is - Marty?!
But Clare and Kate grow closer to each other and God through the trial and are even more thankful for Marty's new baby.
Nostalgia Book- I read this series as a girl and I enjoyed following Clark and Marty's family as they change, grow, marry, and have children of their own. This book is the same. As Ellie finds love of her own and as she is leaving the nest, God finds a way to heal Marty's hurting heart. Again this book is full of faith and christian principles. The family is relentlessly upbeat due to their faith so it could be a very encouraging story for the reader.
As always, I have read a nice story in a series that makes the reader feel good. I love the characters and the calmness of the writing and how it shapes every chapter. I felt very happy with how things turned out between Ellie Davis and Lane Howard.
On my quest to read every book in this series..Loved this book. It was rather humorous when Marty found she was expecting again and got super embarrassed to even let Clark know. I was nice when Ellie ended up with Lane.
Loved this one more than some of the earlier books in the series! Good, clean, uplifting read!
Bit monotonous at times, but loved that you didn't really know what was going to happen next.
Jannette oke is exceptional. I'm rushing to read the next book in the series.
My, my.... the story continues The story continues with the love, faith and lessons of a life time... sure wish we had the faith of that generation......
Great examplesThe characters in this series are all great examples of the legacy I would want to leave my family. Thank you for sharing them
I loved this book. I honestly fell in love with the characters even more. They seemed like old friends. Beautiful story you need to read.
I have enjoyed each book in the series. On to the next one so I can keep up with the family. :)
I really enjoyed reading this book, although the begginning dragged by a little bit. 5 stars for sure!
Oh, where does the time go?Clark was, of course, the same strong, wonderful, compassionate, sweet, drop-dead gorgeous, perfect guy that is too awesome to be realistic.
If I was in there, I would love to marry any one of Marty and Clark's boys!
They are all so sweet and loving!There was one other part that I thought was a little strange in there.
All I know is her name is Melissa Joy and all the ranch hands love her.Baby Belinda is such a sweet little thing.
But I know that Clark and Marty will raise her to be a kind, God-fearing young woman.
yes!" However, I was disappointed because her doubt was mentioned a couple of times in the beginning of the book and then not at all until one chapter near the end.
Marty doesn't want this child because she's older than when she gave birth to her other children, and she's concerned about her health.
Marty worries for a couple of chapters, thinking about how she doesn't want the baby, worrying about how others will perceive her, worrying about appearance when she gives birth at the same time as her daughter-in-law.
Again, these are all fair concerns, and I was invested in Marty's journey to love and accept her new child.
Clark and Marty return from their western visit to a family where life has gone on and many changes taken place.
Nandry's family continues to grow.
So when Marty discovers she might be bringing a new life into the world she is embarrassed and upset.
Can she ever love a child she had not planned from?
Clarks injury fades into the background against the joys and sorrows of everyday life.
I love reading of Marty and Clarks growing family and getting glimpses of their never fading romance, their love for one another.
In many of the books I feel like you miss big chunks of time (especially #2 which covered more than a decade and would skip years at a time).
One thing that kind of surprised me though is I did the math and Luke would have been born when Marty was 27/28 years old.
I suppose the reader is to assume she had issues, but one thing I would have liked to see in this series is more talk of child loss/ infant mortality since it was at a high percentage.
And although there are more books in this series this technically is the last that follow Marty and Clark closely.
The couple in the book instead of getting bitter about their loss, mourn their baby daughter but know that God still loves them and holds them during their sad times.
This book was very nice to read and every time I read this series I'm so glad I did read it 'again'.
This book isn't as good as the first few but it's still a good one to complete following Clark and Marty and their family.
And although there are more books in this series this technically is the last that follow Marty and Clark closely.
The couple in the book instead of getting bitter about their loss, mourn their baby daughter but know that God still loves them and holds them during their sad times.
This book was very nice to read and every time I read this series I'm so glad I did read it 'again'.
This book isn't as good as the first few but it's still a good one to complete following Clark and Marty and their family.
(I didn’t read all of these in large print, but the cover art is the same.)The first book, Love Comes Softly, was the first I ever read by Oke, my introduction into her sweet, warm, and simplistic style of storytelling that would make her one of my all-time favorite authors, up there with Henry James and L.M. Montgomery.
Yes, I love my classic authors with their legendary works, but there’s something to be said for an author who just tells a plain story that gets at readers’ hearts.The first three books of the series are my favorites, but the series is well worth reading in its entirety.
