https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8559047-magic-slays
This series gets GOOD at book three.Unlike most people though, I didn't mind it at book one.
It really, really happened...Ever since then, I've been in love with Kate Daniels, Ilona Andrews, and her Edge series.
It happens to everyone."Andrews, like Neil and unlike most of the Urban Fantasy authors, actually seems to LIKE women.
It's a breath of fresh air to have a female protagonist who actually gets along with other women.Over all, if you're a fan of this series, definitely read the latest installment.If you're not a fan of this series - please don't shoot me but...It gets good at book three.
⚔  The Grand IAA™ KD Buddy Rerererereread Extravaganza  (GIAAKDBRE™), aka the yellow brick road to Magic Triumphs ⚔Presenting Episode 5, or How Kate Daniels Learned that Morgue Steps Can Have Very Entertaining Uses Indeed.»  And the moral of this particular rererereread is: Mutant attack poodles who chew on plastic guns + 15-year-old sex fiend/pure chick magnet + Roman the hidalgo pirate lookalike (aka Roman the Riveting Russian Rake, aka R) + duck-bunny kitties (or is it bunny-kitty ducks? Or k
+ having the enemy for lunch + mostest coolest spiky red-haired weremongoose nanny ever = let's dance the night away and stuff.[July 2016]❣ KD is the Cure to All of Life's Problems Buddy Read (KDitCtAoLPBR™) with my dear wife Ange, and the poor IAA souls who have fallen into our deathly KD Surprise Reread Trap (KSRT™).✎ Previous rating: 8 stars✎ New rating: I don't know anymore.
But hey, nobody's perfect.⑬ You know how to have fun:✔ Play with trolls✔ Attend ant parties✔ Pet mutant cat-rabbit-ducks✔ Visit houses on chicken legs✔ Meet lovely people with supersonic whistles⑭ Roman the Riveting Russian Rake is part of your extended family.
“Put your badass faces on and follow me.”   Studying Intellectual Property Law or following Kate Daniels' new adventures that include slavic gods,domestic terrorists and my favorite knight in furry armor.Let me think.  “Starting the day with a philosophical debate with a priest of the Embodiment of All Evil.It could only go downhill from here.”   Kate Daniels is now the Beast Lord's mate and she has her own business that investigates paranormal problems and life would be perfect,if only someon
1.Addicted to action.While reading Magic Slays I wasn't sure whether I would give it 4 or 5 stars.Of course I loved it,but I didn't find it as intense as the previous ones.And then the final pages happened and battles and bombs and ancient rituals and massacres occured and everything fell into place.2.Addicted to sarcasm.Sarcasm here,sarcasm there,sarcasm everywhere!Kate is the queen but every single character has a witty retort ready to strike and make you snicker until you sound like Squidward Tentacles.It's not pleasant for the people around you but don't be ashamed,things could always get worse!
Welcome to the Reader’s Court of Literary Grievances The courtroom was alive with the buzz of conversation. Today’s case had drawn so many spectators that it was standing room only. Behind the judge’s bench, high on the wall, hung an unimposing, standard-issue clock. As its hands ticked down the minutes, the excitement in the room rose and the buzz of the crowd slowly turned into a low level roar. Fifteen minutes before start-time it was so loud that people had to raise their voices when speaki
As its hands ticked down the minutes, the excitement in the room rose and the buzz of the crowd slowly turned into a low level roar.
“Will the prosecution please begin its opening statement,” the bailiff ordered.In response, a tall man with thinning grey hair moved sinuously up out of his seat and strode towards the center of the room, placing himself in full view of both the judge and the crowd.
The same snake of a man that gave the opening statement for the prosecution spoke again, addressing the judge this time, instead of the crowd.

Kate has some angst about both of those things, but it soon gets overshadowed by a particularly difficult, and dangerous, case that Kate is offered.
It's especially difficult when her ward, Julie, absconds from the private school where Kate had sent her and makes her way back to Kate, and danger, and Curran has major issues every time Kate walks into peril … or too close to another man.As usual with books in the KATE DANIELS series, you get lots of ass-kicking, sarcastic dialogue, conflicts and makeup scenes with His Royal Furriness, and freaky dangers - and this is a good one.
It is not as bad as Ilona thinks, all and all it is not terrible.
ALSO--try not to kill it.Kate captures the rogue vamp (b/c awesome), but the cops (PAD) show up anyway, and they're feeling trigger happy, which is Bad. B/c Ghastek, who has also shown up and retaken control of the vampire, passes out, loses control of the vamp again, and PAD starts shooting.
This installment of KATE DANIELS is awesome per usual.
This installment shows you what a lot of those characters are made of, and it makes you proud of them.
Magic Breaks (Kate Daniels, #7)
Magic Binds (Kate Daniels, #9)
Iron and Magic (Kate Daniels, #9.5) 
Magic Triumphs (Kate Daniels, #10) 
Reread.Again an enjoyable addition to the series.
IA certainly knows how to spin a tale.
IA just threw everything in the mix in this book i.e. vampire and shapeshifters going mad, a secret society who has it's minions in almost every big organisation in Atlanta giving this group all the inside scoop.Despite my grumblings about the story, I loved Kate and Curran in this book.
The things she came to know about her past, her doubts about her future, and how Curran reacted to all that, that alone made this book worth reading.
Since I'm a fanboy, it's super easy to write reviews because I can usually just do a gonzo.Suffice to say, it's really fun to be getting into the characters.
like there ain't hiccups in all of them...
but it's nice to see the interplay.I can't believe that Derek is actually growing on me, at long last.
It gets rather special for me, though, when we get a who's who of mythology showing up, like Greek gods overcharging for body bags and large refrigerated units, or Baba Yaga giving cute little gifts to little girls.
:)The switchover back to tech comes at a very nice time for me.
I love mad geniuses.
Total popcorn madness.
Therefore, I’ve developed a cunning plan: I’m going to buy four more copies of this book.
(hide spoiler)] I’ll send the second book to Chloe Neill, though I’m afraid she may already be beyond all hope.
In addition to that, the Beast Lord and his Consort (who hates to be called Mate) have other problems: Kate finds out the truth about her mother, which brings out a series of very difficult questions regarding her relationship with Curran, Andrea’s retired and not at all herself, a very important person gets mortally wounded, the boudas are creating more trouble than they’re worth and there’s even a pregnant Alpha in the Keep.
Yes I am reading this again....3rd time is a charm. I even found some lovely people to read it with me at  Ilona Andrews Addicts (IAA) I always find something in these books that I missed or forgot in-between reads that makes them great and new again. Always a fun time reading the banter, the story and just the feel of IA's worlds are fantastic.Read #2 review Sept 20144.5 stars. I love re-reading this series. I’m having so much fun the second time through. My real review is below this is just me
(hide spoiler)]Real Coherent Review from Sept 29 2013 Possible minor spoilers books 1-4Kate and Curran are finally together as a couple and that means she is struggling to learn what it is to be not only a member of a pack but also half in charge of it.
Nanny/adviser to Kate he is trying to help her become more like the alpha for the pack she needs to be.
I really liked the plot of this book and the interactions of course between Curran and Kate.
Kate really comes into her own in some respects in this book.
Coming off the high of the spectacular ending of Magic Slays, I've been staring at the computer for 10 minutes, trying to figure out why it took me a little while to really get into this book.
And I think I've finally come up with the answer.As the story begins, Kate is running the new agency that Curran set up for her since she has left the Order.
But just as her best friend Andrea returns from a two month absence, Kate is hired to find a missing man and the mysterious device he has built.
I now count myself among the Kate Daniels super fandom.
I especially loved how authentic the relationship was between the main character and her bff.
They argued like real people, and it’s the kind of back-and-forth bickering that’s fun to read about.
In fact, all the relationships are great, and I especially love how many interesting side characters get their own spotlights in some of the short stories (yup – it’s good enough to read all of the extra novellas that go along with it!).
I’ll probably be doing a Kate Daniels short story blitz once I get through them all.Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.nikihawkes.com
Your books are too good for these corny covers.I want to start my review with a message for Ilona Andrews.
Yes, I used to love Cat and Bones a lot.
I didn’t want this to happen to Kate and Curran.Curran’s absence from Kate’s little adventure is a breath of fresh air in the world of urban fantasy couples.
Andrea makes a good Watson to Kate’s Holmes.I’m so curious about Andrea, Roman and Raphael.
Hell, I want to see Roman again.
I actually would like Andrea to dump Raphael’s ass (for good – I know she still has perverted thoughts towards his furry behind) and go for Roman.
“Shapeshifter parenting motto—if your kid slits somebody's throat, always have a backup plan to make the body disappear.”  Book 5 in the Kate Daniels series and I'm still loving it!
This was the book I never made it to the first time I was reading the series, so I'm glad I got to it and finished it!
It becomes a race against time to save thousands of lives and Kate has the help of the pack.
“Did he just rip out the engine?" I asked."Yes", Saiman said.
As always, I love Kate and Curran.
I loved seeing all my favorite characters return and some new ones thrown in.
She is a failure as an interesting character.The ending felt rushed and the resolution felt kind of on the easy side, but when you think about it, this was the most logical thing what would happen as the forces in the fight were nowhere near being equal.In the good parts I liked the appearance of some very colorful characters from Slavic (Eastern Slavic?) folklore.
I did not expect for Baba Yaga to appear the way she was described here, but let us call it artistic liberty.The biggest reason for high rating was a moral of the story.
Another thumping good read, but that is not what impressed me most because I expect no less from this series.
No, what impressed me was the development of the world building as the series progresses: how the long term effects of the magic and tech shifts continue to break the remains of the old world apart.
We see how Kate will sacrifice everything for Julie and how Curran would give everything up for Kate.
We learn more about Kate's mother and backstory with Roland and watch Kate struggle with all her insecurities.
Fab read!
It is time for Kate to put on her grown-up pants and act like an adult. It is essential for her to deal with a number of things that need an adult attitude. So:1. For the first time, she has a business to run with employees and bills to pay. For a variety of reasons she keeps adding employees to her business and all these people have needs, i.e. better weapons, food, food and more food, extra chairs etc.She has to be cautious about her budget and her earnings, but I am not sure she is very succe
It is time for Kate to put on her grown-up pants and act like an adult.
She needs to learn how to trust Curran and this is hard.
Kate has to learn to be a parent and to provide parental advice.6.
It is about time to embrace and practice her magic!A strange machine with unknown use and a secret anti-magic society are going to keep Kate and her friends on their toes and they will add complexity to the book.Everyone who knows the secret just runs away and you have a constant feeling that the city is doomed.
Pure awesomeness.I truly love how the relationship between Curran and Kate develops, how their emotions deepen and explanations are given about how much they mean to each other.
Last review of a Kate Daniels book for this year. By the time I reached the middle of this book I already began to get a bit bored of Kate Daniels as it was the 5th book in a row that I read from this series. I still enjoyed it but I started to feel the need for a break. What is this book about? Kidnapping, witches, Russian volhvs, power play between Curran and Kate, fights, love.
The fifth book in the Kate Daniels Series, MAGIC SLAYS is just as AMAZING as all the rest.
Yes, the book where we get to see how Kate and Curran are as a couple, not just as a couple, but as Beast Lord and Consort.
And yes, for those who will be begging to know, there is more Kate and Curran in MAGIC SLAYS and all I have to say is after this book, I want to steal Curran for myself.
..There is a lot of change going on in Kate’s life in this one; navigating a new relationship, trying to rein in her street-savvy teenage ward, the start-up of her new business.
We get to see some of Kate’s insecurities in this one (which is a refreshing change) as well as learning a little bit more about why you don’t want to fuck around with the Beast Lord.
(hide spoiler)] There’s lots of snark on display, as per usual, but there is quite a bit more camaraderie and politics going on than in previous books.
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
But as you know, I have real issues with the relationship between Kate and Curran.
When I say between, I mean on Curran's part, because I know Kate adores him.“All those years, all those women, and you are the one he mated with.
A war is coming and Curran has the best weapon to confront Roland.
I get to see what Curran thinks about the pack and the war, and I liked him for what he said, but then BOOK #6 happened and I was back to disliking him.
This book was more about Kate and her relationships with the people who helped her growing up.
It's such a deep, vivid, layered world with complex characters around every corner.I liked the reality of Kate starting her own business.
What starts as a job quickly becomes possibly the biggest threat that Kate has faced yet.
There are some mind-blowing bits of Kate's history revealed in this book.
I laughed out loud more times than I can count, and teared up just as often.The last few chapters of the book are a wild roller-coaster of a ride, that I'm going to be reading again right now for what I'm sure I missed.All in all, great book, great story.
Ilona Andrews just tells a good story, there's all there is to it.
If you love this series, I don't think you'll have any reason to be disappointed in this book.
Lots of Kate and Curran goodness here!
It kind of epitomizes how I feel about Nicholas Sparks books, or series where the author kills off a main character.
It's an easy emotional reaction the author doesn't have to work for.
***"Did he write tragedies?""No. Comedies.
Good ones too." Doolittle drank his tea.
"I don't trust tragedies much.
It's easy to make a person sad by showing him something tragic.
It's no secret anymore that I'm madly in love with Kate and that I'd totally marry her.
Magic Slays is another favorite book of mine in her series because it is action packed, fast paced and has SarcasmI did some thinking.” “That is a very dangerous pastime,” Ghastek said.
Surely the apocalypse wasn’t far behind.A lovely character castI nodded to the boy wonder and the sex fiend.Derek, Ascanio, Jim, Saiman, Aunt B.
Fun politicsKate, it’s not personal.
People get upset over many things.
The anger builds and builds and if there is no outlet for it, pretty soon it transforms the person.
So much for taking a break from these books...Review to come.
AKA I love this series and want its babies...August 2018 Reread: Oh man, the feeeeeels in this book.
In the last book it was left with Kate and Curran finally getting their freak on and becoming mates, and Kate starting up her own PI business with a little assistance from the Pack.
They were perfect for eachother!I really loved this book, not only did it have a fast action packed plot, but it had my favourite couple in it and it has left me waiting very impatiently for the next book!
These books just keep getting better!!
Kate has opened her own business, Cutting Edge Investigations.
Of course her first customer would be part of a cult built on ridding the world of magic.
Even though without magic most of the population would die.
Kate is battling a group of terrorists with sleeper agents everywhere.
This book made me laugh, it made me cry, it made me shudder and it made me feel the warm fuzzies for the romance between Kate and Curren.
If they ever do a poll looking for the most romantic couples in literature, they would be on it.
*romantic sigh*
whatever.I tried to resist. mama always says: all that matters is that I do my best.this is me doing my best not to keep reading these so-so mashups of horribly clunky prose and terrific action set-pieces.i started the next book before i even finished this one.STFU
