https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/197084.Are_You_My_Mother_
We were told we were adopted because in class we had to write down where we inherited our facial features and hair from.
I couldn't say where I got my curly hair from and when my teacher told me I had to get curly hair from someone in my family, I came home from school on a mission to discover where it came from knowing that I was the only one with curls.
The idea that I didn't look like the rest of my family, was difficult but this book helped me deal with my differences.
When a Mother Bird leaves the nest to find food for her yet-to-hatch egg, little does she know that the Baby Bird will be on a mission to find his mother right off the bat.
With no one in the nest, Baby Bird begins a search around, seeking out his mother.
and on goes the search for his mother.
Further explorations prove fruitless, but Baby Bird is soon reunited with his mother and finds all the happiness he could want.
He thought it funny to see all the different mother possibilities that Baby Bird had before locating his rightful mother.
3 Are You My Mother? ★'s “You are not my mother. You are a scary Snort!”  I may not have loved this book but I can still appreciate it :) It's an okay book especially to introduce to young children to as it is a very easy read with very simple words. The illustrations in the remakes are very colorful which is good because it holds the eye. There's nothing worse than a good story with absolute boring pictures! It just kinda felt a bit long for what it was. But my little niece seemed to enjoy it w
3 Are You My Mother?
“You are not my mother.
I may not have loved this book but I can still appreciate it :) It's an okay book especially to introduce to young children to as it is a very easy read with very simple words.
The illustrations in the remakes are very colorful which is good because it holds the eye.
The message I got out of it is this, It helps children learn we should be thankful for our mothers and also the friends around us.
That's a pretty good message though that's for sure.
A cute, little, tiny tiny bird is out and about to explore the world. What is she searching? Whom is she looking for?Of course, it's her mother, whom she wants to find out! Funny and innovative!
A baby bird is look out for her mother.No, her mother is not missing! How can adult go missing? But this baby bird has decided to go on an adventure and until it finds its mother, there's no stopping her! Sweet and cute story![image error]
I absolutely love this book!!!!
And this book is how she first learned that animals EAT other animals..
But it wasn't until I asked her what the baby bird was going to DO with the worm that I realized she didn't know.
She said the worm was going to live in the nest with the baby bird.
He's going to EAT it!
She said "Look!
He's going to climb on his back!
Like I climb on yours!" The truth is a little more reality than I want her to have...
Just like you climb on mine!".
Mother Bird wears a kerchief on her head because of femininity.
It at first seemed as though it would be a breath taking story started with the age old question.
It also contributed to my fear that this newly hatched bird, had mental retardation brought on by his fall from the nest.This book also brings up another sad topic, chick abandonment.
The process of an adult bird leaving a new born ALONE in the nest for hours at a time a risky and dangerous thing to do to say the least.In short this story is not (despite popular belief) a children's story.
un lindo libro para niños (o para aprender y mejorar el español:)y de hecho la ilustración es adorable.
A startling exposition on the morality of snorts.
The digger lifts him high in the air, frightening him terribly, then drops him back into his nest where he meets his mother returning home.This is a great read-aloud for preschoolers, who will identify with the baby bird's fear at being separated from his parents.
Its pacing is wonderfully predictable, with not-very-scary tension building to an exciting climax with the "Snort," and transitioning quickly to a deeply reassuring ending as the baby bird snuggles into the nest with his mother.
It's also a good easy reader, although a student who has had the book read aloud in preschool may view it as babyish.
This is a wonderful story that I absolutely adored reading over and over again to my kids. It has great sonorities to the words and is lots of fun. It is a great way for especially small kids to learn that just because mommy disappears for a little while, she will always come back - and sometimes with a tasty treat - yummy worms!! :)A must for kids!
This was my nephews favorite book growing up.
It had special meaning because I was raising him during his own mother's issues.
It broke my heart that maybe this little boy was confused about which of the women in his life was actually his mother.
Maybe it is why this story meant so much to him.
All I know is that he would crawl into my lap, with his battered copy of this book, and ask me to read it to him, over, and over again.
Imagine my surprise when over a decade later, this book is mentioned in 
The second book I ever read to my daughter, and the first (and one of the only) non-rhyming books she enjoyed.It's a book of traveling and education, meeting others that are different from you.
Baby bird, as they're known to do, falls from the nest and wanders aimlessly for the mother it has yet to meet.
Tons of danger narrowly avoided.Like most Disney movies, the father figure is curiously absent here.
Because this whole situation definitely warrants a call to Child Protective Services and could have been avoided.
Fortunately luck is on baby bird's side.
This has become one of my daughter's favorite bedtime stories. At the moment she calls the book "Baby bird". She really enjoyed this book since the first time I read it to her. Throughout some parts of the books she laughs and gets sad when baby bid cannot find his mother. She loves it so much she will even attempt to try and read it to her baby doll. I would definitely recommend this book to toddlers and young children. I remember enjoying this book myself when I was younger. It's just an all around great little story.
Apparently this is a popular theme, as we've seen it several times in many books. I thought it was a little long for the topic, or maybe I just wasn't that interested. But it looked like my kids felt differently. Both my preschool and school aged kids enjoyed it and were engaged throughout.
How could the mother bird leave while the egg was hatching? T______T
A new baby bird is about to hatch.
Knowing her baby will be hungry, the mother bird goes looking for food for him, but he hatches while she is gone.
He immediately sets out to find his mother.
Will he succeed?This is a book my whole family remembers with fondness from when I was a kid.
The pictures are fun, and the story is straightforward and funny with a heartwarming ending.
Most of the words will be very easy for early readers, and a couple of the more unfamiliar words they should be able to sound out with a little adult help.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
My grandson, Gauge, and I read this book together recently. He is only 4-years-old and I noticed that this book is a little hard for him to follow. It also doesn't engage him as well as other books in the same genre have in the past. I still like the book, but for the real young ones it might be a skip.
Eastman not only wrote but also illustrated Are You My Mother?
D. Eastman and Theodor Geisel (Dr. Seuss) are one and the same, thinking P.
D. Eastman was another pen name of Theodor Geisel.
Eastman created animation for training films and was a writer and storyboard artist on the Private Snafu series for the Army-Navy Screen Magazine.After the war, he worked as a writer and storyboard artist for United Productions of America (UPA).
He was involved in developing high profile projects, including the cartoon character Mr. Magoo, and also adapted Theodor Geisel's children's recording "Gerald McBoing Boing" into an Academy Award-winning short film.
However....now that I'm going to be an adoptive mother, this book can simply not be in my household.
And now that I am looking at it from the view point of an adoptive mother, this book is almost ruined for me.
A story about a baby bird trying to find his family, but other animals can't be his "mother" or family because they don't look like him.
And yet part of my adoption mentality wants to make it lower than even the 3 stars.
For other people this book might remain a beloved classic, and I am fine with that.

Marg bought 4 of these books for the upcoming grandmonster & asked me to mail them. They're in a nifty 4"x6" thick cardboard format, unlike the ones we had for our kids. Hopefully harder for little fingers to tear. I had to read them first. I remember this one well. Pretty good, although not the best. Cute pictures, though.
especially delicious when read by mark miller!
I used to LOVE reading this book to my daughter! I read it to her SO many times, and she loved it every single time. :)
Love that the kitten just stares. Dialogue phrasing cracked me up. Snort!
Very cute.
A Little Bird's quest for identity16 November 2011 You can probably tell that I am currently back in Adelaide since a bunch of children's books are now appearing on my read list. As my brother has kept all of the books from our childhood (and since I did read them at the time) I thought it might be good to go through them again and write commentaries on them (as I did the last time I was in Adelaide). Okay it does end up inflating my list of books that I have read, but as I said, I had actually
A Little Bird's quest for identity16 November 2011	You can probably tell that I am currently back in Adelaide since a bunch of children's books are now appearing on my read list.
As my brother has kept all of the books from our childhood (and since I did read them at the time) I thought it might be good to go through them again and write commentaries on them (as I did the last time I was in Adelaide).
This is the story of a young hatchling going on a quest to find his mother.
It is written by P.D. Eastman and is told by a baby bird who falls out of his nest.
While she is gone, the baby bird falls out of the nest and encounters a bunch of different animals to try and find his mother.
This book is told in first person by the baby bird.
There are also some other animals that are only mentioned when the baby bird is trying to find his mom.
The baby bird gets upset when he has asked two animals if they are his mother and they all tell him no.
The baby bird wanted to find his mother because he was hungry.
She wanted to be prepared for his arrival and it was her maternal instinct to do so.
“He will want to eat”.
When the baby bird hatches he automatically thinks he is alone and sets out to find his mother.
The fact that he hatched early shows how much of a persistent and determined bird he is.
Repetition, simple sentence structure and animated illustrations are at the right level for beginner readers.
This book is suitable for those in the early years stage and for those aged between four and eight who are beginner readers.
