https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/699641.Silver_Canyon
What a good book! I read it during The Big Vacation and ended up really enjoying it. The romance annoyed me at first, 'cause it was 'insta-love' on the guy's part, but by the end I was really shipping Matt and Moira. <3 The story was interesting throughout, with some GREAT characters (and excellent villains) and while it wasn't as brilliant as To Tame a Land (and I didn't love Matt as much as Rye), it was still very, very good. One of L'Amour's best, I think.
My husband is a fan and I generally think he has good taste, and the book was slim and looked like an easy enough read.
(That sounds like I'm joking but there are only three or four women in the book and this is exactly what they do.) The romantic scenario was kind of forced -- love at first sight and Matt's idea of wooing Moira is telling her how many babies she's going to pop out for him, and amazingly it works!
I liked Silver Canyon but I entirely agree with the reviews that said this is a romance novel for men.
Louis L'Amour create a pretty terrific range war in Silver Canyon and then he plops his knight-errant, Matt Brennan, squarely in the middle of it.
Brennan is young and brash, but like a medieval knight his chivalry marks him as a worthy hero.
And since he is fighting for the hand of a beautiful young lady the stakes are raised a bit higher for the reader.
Like all romantic literature the tropes are present and yet they don't feel hackneyed here.
In addition L'Amour explains to the reader about building campfires and tracking horses and living off the land.
I read this for my read harder challenge. Now I know what it means to be a man.All joking aside, there is a lot of talk about the nature of gender. Strangely there is also a lot of romance in this novel--not only in the mythology of the West/open country/gun slingers life but straight up boy falls in love with girl. And because he does, he gives up fighting and society is restored. There's a bit of Unforgiven here. If you care about grammar and correctness, the pulp-y nature of the book will kill you
"Εκδίκηση", εκδόσεις ΒΙΠΕΡ.Δέκατο τρίτο γουέστερν του Λουίς Λ'Αμούρ που διαβάζω και αυτό με την σειρά του μου πρόσφερε δράση και όμορφες εικόνες.
Όμως πρώτα θα πρέπει να βρει μια άκρη στον πόλεμο που έχει ξεσπάσει στην περιοχή ανάμεσα σε μεγάλους γαιοκτήμονες και να ανακαλύψει κάποια μυστικά που κρύβουν ορισμένοι επικίνδυνοι άνθρωποι.
Μπορεί να μην πρωτοτυπεί ιδιαίτερα με την ιστορία αυτή ο Λ'Αμούρ, όμως μια η γραφή του με τις εξαιρετικές περιγραφές γεγονότων και τοπίων και μια η δράση και η ενδιαφέρουσα πλοκή, είναι πράγματα που δύσκολα θα αφήσουν ανικανοποίητους τους λάτρεις του είδους και του συγγραφέα.
Εξάλλου, δύσκολα θα βρεθεί βιβλίο του άρχοντα του γουέστερν που θα με απογοητεύσει.
This was a hard book to rate because I loved it!
I haven't really read many books like it - it's a mass produced western that you would probably find in the grocerie store next the romance novels.
It's like a dudes version of a romance novel.
It was classic.Given to me by a friend who is definately a westerner and raised that way, these are his favorite books, and I think I liked it more because of it.It's dangerous, dramatic, and talks about a country that I miss a lot - in a time that maybe I was supposed to be a part of.
Loved it.
Mmm. . . it was ok. I'm not particularly a fan of Westerns, but I wanted to read one to see what I was missing out on. I found it pretty cliche, but then I figured Louis L'Amour probably came up with the original material that everyone else turned into cliches. The fist fights and main plot were enjoyable, the romantic subplot much less so. I guess I find it hard to believe that rootin' tootin' cowboys would fall in love at first site and get all mushy and want to settle down.
Louis L'Amour is the man's Danielle Steele
A little hokey-ness with "I gotta live like a man"/"she's my woman" type lines, but overall a fun, exciting read.
It took me 36 years to read this book of under 200 pages.Let me explain...In 1982 I received a leather bound hardcover copy of Silver Canyon.
I read the first few chapters, and when a friend asked to borrow the book, I loaned it to him right then and there.
I never got it back.
Recently, I started getting interested in reading westerns again, and I thought of this book.
I bought the paperback copy and finished reading it on my lunch breaks at work.
The mystery kept me guessing till the end.So, here it is...a review 36 years in the making.
One of L'Amour's earlier published books.
Most L'Amour fans know that his books locales are reported to be real.
It said that if he describes a watering hole or stream at a particular location, it either is or was there.
I found myself exploring Google Maps to identify canyons and mesa's mentioned and they were all there as described.
He either walked the land itself or poured over topological maps to ID the areas.
Given that several other books of his take place in the same canyon system in Utah, i guess it is an area he had walked and was intimate with.
A good easy read. He’s a rough cowboy. When his friend is hurt and killed, he plans for revenge. He loves this girl named Moria. She likes him to, until she sees how much he fights. When her own father dies, she must have thought he was party to it, because she wanted nothing to do with him after that. Just so violent. I guess that’s what you expect from a western.
I loved this book because it was action packed and stayed suspenseful. This story is about a few guys who set off on an adventure to a different town. They travel a canyon figuring they can stay hidden and will have resources but they find their selves in bad situations many times. If you are one who loves to read about adventure and like suspenseful books I would highly recommend this book.
Read in the 80s
My favourite L'Amour book yet.
Not my favorite of the Louis L'Amour books, but still a quick and fun read.
I rated this a little higher than I had been others because this hero tried so hard to broker a peace among the antagonists. He is attitude was definitely "go big or go home."
exciting western book, lots of great characters and a mystery as well
Good book.
Great book. Good solid story and characters are personable!
I really love this book!!!!
My first western book. Dad always trying to get me into Louie L'Amour books. Was a good fast read. Fun to read how the old times might have been. The love story was pretty corny though.
It’s dispeckable and-“ “I think you mean ‘despicable’ dear, and it is only a name.” “I know how to talk, Mother and I know where that word comes from and I also know that slavery was outlawed in the Old Country and it is-“ “Gwen.
She’d put the mercurial Gwen in her place while simultaneously keeping me away from Pa. Minutes, hours, eons passed and then the wagon came to a gentle stop, rocking softly on the tracks like a cradle in an old fairy tale.
“See why we are stopped, Roland,” Mother said and Blink!
The subtlety of his authorial voice is in its flavor, and not in its themes, after all.I had completely forgotten the things that set L'Amour's writing apart from the many other authors whose works I've consumed, like the sparse but evocative tone, the straightforward presentation, the salty language of the genre, the stark characterizations, the compulsive motivations, and the primal, almost atavistic themes that seem to stir something in the reader almost against one's will.
On the other hand, the limited palette is evident in the manner in which L'Amour inspires stereotypes, and in fact his most colorful characters become stereotypes unto themselves, more remarkable for the strength of a couple of sharp details than for any depth or complexity of construction.
He finds out the land they both want is owned by an old man, all alone, being harassed daily by the ranch hands and gun fighters of the two big ranches.
He decides to throw in with the old man.
This stranger, Matt Brannon, gets beat in a fist fight, shot at from ambush (more than once), false claims are made against the land, and while he's gone for supplies the ranch is attacked, the old man killed and the house burned to the ground.
He faces so many challenges, will he stay for his promise to the old man, and to make good on his marriage proposal?
Typical western action of ranchers fighting for access to water.
Someone is secretly stirring up the ranchers, but he's after more than water.Western - "You're not wanted in Hattan's Point," Matt Brennan was told moments after arriving in town.
"There's trouble here and men are picking sides." But Matt decided he wasn't going anywhere.
She considered him nothing more than a drifting ranch hand, but Matt was determined to prove her wrong.
To do so, he'd have to solve a mystery that was at the center of the growing violence in Hattan's Point--a secret that could make a man rich...or dead.
Probably dead.
My first foray into the genre, and purely because L'Amour was a big influence on David Gemmell.
I see that influence clearly -- the setting up of rivalries and conflicts, the types of setbacks facing the hero, and the tidy and satisfying denouement.
Characterization is strong -- minimalist in terms of description, but masterful in that the reader gets a clear picture from the hints, mannerisms and dialogue.There were some editing issues, surprisingly, including a paragraph that had been inadvertenly left in from an earlier draft, which was in third person, whereas this version is in first.
This was the 2nd book of his originally published in 1956.The hero of this story Matt Brennan rides into the town of Hattan's Point and forms a partnership with a ranch owner named Ball who's land is being fought over by the two other large ranches in the area.
Thrown into the mix is the daughter of one of the opposing ranches that Matt falls in love with, a young brash gun fighter, and a mysterious third party using a shyster lawyer from the neighboring town also maneuvering to take over Ball's ranch.Another fun fast read.
This book was very good. The book was about a gunslinger coming into a town where there was fighting going on between three ranches. After he was there, he knew he had to stay because he saw the girl of life that he wanted to marry. He went to the one ranch where he was against the two main ranches. The rancher died so he took over the ranch. Along owning the ranch, he dealt with gunslingers, thieves, and many other obstacles. After he took care of all those he finally owned the ranch for good and married the girl.
This is the second western I have read. Both are books by Louis L'Amour. No vampires, emos, wolves, witches, spells or wizards here. Just good, grown up reading. With all the hype over fictional characters with super powers, it's nice to read about people making their way without the aid of the supernatural. Remember when our heroes used to be cowboys? Remember when a man was as good as his word and right and wrong were clearly defined? Neither do I. Which is why I'm reading westerns.
