https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/341166.Madame_Curie
Madame Curie: a biography, Eve Curieتاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه ژوئن سال 2007 میلادیعنوان: مادام کوری؛ نویسنده: ایو کوری؛ مترجم: منیر اصفیا؛ تهران، بنگاه مطبوعاتی افشاری، 1319؛ دز 352 ص؛ ا. شربیانی
‎Madame Curie: a biography‬, Eve Curieتاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه ژوئن سال 2007 میلادیعنوان: مادام کوری؛ نویسنده: ایو کوری؛ مترجم: منیر اصفیا؛ تهران، بنگاه مطبوعاتی افشاری، 1319؛ دز 352 ص؛ ا. شربیانی
I must have taken this out of the library ten times as I was growing up..
My mother loved biography, especially biographies of great women, and recommended this to me as a sixth grader, at a time when the world was saying no to me a lot.
The biography of Marie Curie by her daughter Eve was one of my favorites, the story of a great scientist and the first woman to win the Nobel Prize, and she won it twice, once in Physics and once in Chemistry.
There is a gorgeous illustrated book about the love affair between Pierre and Marie Curie called "Radioactive" by Lauren Redniss, for those who become hooked on Curie and her story.
جمعة مباركة على الجميعأغلبنا إن لم يكن جميعنا لديه في مكتبته العزيزة كتاب أو أكثر يفخر بإمتلاكه نزل 
I’m glad I did; it is, quite simply, an extraordinary story, beautifully written.I’m a little embarrassed to admit that I knew nothing about Marie Curie before reading this book except perhaps the most basic Trivial Pursuit knowledge, vaguely remembered--she and her husband were scientists (right?), I think they may have won the Nobel Prize (right?), something about radioactivity or something...?This book tells the story, from the age of five, of a poor young Polish girl named Marya Sklodovska (better known by her adopted French first name, Marie, and her married name, Curie) who scraped together enough money by working as a governess first to help her elder sister Bronya through medical school in Paris, then to finally join her and continue her own studies, at the Sorbonne.
خمس نجمات كما كانت في نفسي يوم قراءتها زمن الصبا الأول
I thought I would never finish reading this wonderful biography depicting Mme. Curie's life, work and character as one of the great lady scientists in 20th century and beyond.
I think I would write more when I have time on her as a woman scientist of genius from Poland, the first famous lady scholar I have known and admired since my early teens more than five decades ago.As for her greatness famously awarded by her two Nobel Prizes, first in Physics (shared with her husband) in 1903 and second in Chemistry in 1911, the first lady and still the only one Nobel lady laureate, in the world, who has since been awarded the prestigious two Prizes.
Δέκα στα πέντε για την Μαρία Κιουρί, μία απίστευτη γυναίκα.Διαβάστε το.
Marie Curie is someone I greatly admire for her dedication to science, her incredible work ethic, her total disdain for material wealth, her love of her children, her love affair with her husband, her humility in spite of great honors, her dedication to help mankind.
This book taught me that to excel in an area many times means you have to dedicate much of your life to whatever that interest is - in other words, success comes at great cost in health, time, energy, personal interests, etc.
Marie Curie excelled in science because she loved it.
I didn't know who Marie Curie was and this book thoroughly described her.
Marie was a very strong and independent character in the novel.
She would do whatever she needed to get her studying done, and studying always came first.
Marie was also very passionate about her family and hometown, Poland.
She would step up to the plate whenever she needed to and even worked as a nanny so her older sister, Bronya could get an education.
Marie Curie not only was she passionate about her family but also with her daughter.
Eve Curie gets so close to her characters and puts us so squarely in Marie Curie's point of view that the book reads like a novel.
The book was published three years after her mother's death but I wonder how long it took Eve Curie to write.
I can only surmise that she had the idea for a biography of her mother before Marie Curie died as amassing this wealth of information in this book and making it so readable and compelling must have taken longer than three years.
I plan to re-read this book in French, the language in which it was originally published.
Eve Curie tried hard to depict her mother's life and did a pretty good job of it, but there's just too much hero-worship for my taste in a biography. I like them to be more objective.
طهر العلم
Marie and Pierre Curie were remarkable individuals with a respectful relationship of equality.
I found them to be inspiring with their humble givings to science, their aptitude and passion for physics, and how they raised their daughters.
I found myself awed by Madame Curie's ceaseless energy for caring for her family after losing her husband and continuing with her research in radium and radioactivity.
She was such a passionate individual who cared greatly for science, family, and country.
One can learn so much about this remarkable woman and find themselves inspired by her strength, determination, and courage.
None of which reflect on the eventful life of Marie Curie, all of which are related to the expectations of a reader in 2018.
Suffice to say: if you are only going to read one book on Marie Curie and her science (I have read a few) choose a different one, for a more full picture of the context and importance of her discoveries as well as a more well-rounded image of Marie herself.
A good read perhaps for those who like their heroes perfect, and good for researchers and completists, but a modern reader who just wants an introduction should probably pick something different.
Systematically, patiently, she attained each of the ends she set for herself: she passed first in the master's examination in physics in 1893 and sec on in the master's in mathematics in 1894." She decided to learn the French language perfectly...Of Pierre Curie: They had ..." one of the finest bonds that ever united man and woman.
Yes, the woman always has 4 times the work and burdens as a men--but Marie was a good example of how to deal with this--she did it uncomplainingly and tried to perfect her duties as wife and mother.).
She seems to be the sole woman who shows up in lists of historical science greats, and she was the first woman to win the Nobel Prize for her (and her husband's) discovery of radium.This biography is written by her daughter, Eva Curie.
Eva Curie loved her mother and admired her tremendously with very good reason.
That was okay with me, though, because the book gives something else: a close and tender view of a great mind and scientist who was also a loving mother and wife.Eva Curie is a good writer, and she held my interest the entire time.
I love reading about people like Marie Curie who have so much passion for what they do.
This biography of Madame Curie, written soon after her death by her youngest daughter, is lively, highly engaging, and a lovely book.
The collection of personal letters used to give voice to Madame Curie's personal thoughts combined with all the personal stories that family and friends were willing to share make this extremely readable.
I knew little of Madame Curie's personal story and had forgotten that her husband died so early in their lives (and with such tragedy).
I have no idea if this book has much to add to general knowledge of the scientists, but I found it both enlightening and heartwarming.
Highly recommended for readers of biographies.
Je to příběh o mladé dívce, slečně, domácí učitelce, studentce francouzské Sorbonny, mladé vědkyni, o matce, manželce, hlavě rodiny...S odstupem času se nám vše může zdát romantické, ale kniha popisuje události tak věrně, že se nám nad životem této ženy jen snad svírá srdce.
Život Marie Curie byl opředen chudobou, odříkáním, samotou, ale i velkou oddaností vědě a svému poslání, což Eva Curie zachycuje naprosto brilantně.Ve třech částech popisuje tři různé období Mariina života.
A přes všechny těžkosti které ji život připravil jde Marie dál, stěhuje se, stará se o děti, pracuje.
مِن أجمَل و أكمل ما قرأت كتاب يلامس شغاف القلب كتاب عظيم يتحدث عن إمرأة عظيمة
It took me twenty years to find a copy of this book which my school teacher recommended to me when I was about twelve. In this intimate and delicate portrait of a mother by her daughter, Marie Curie's unordinary determination and intense dedication to science (until her very last days) are even more remarkable than her brilliance and sharp mind. Her story demonstrates that passion is crucial to success. Easily one of the most inspiring books I have ever read. I wish I had read it before!
I loved the movie and was so moved by this woman's life, that I just had to read that book, so I immediately ordered it.This is one of, if not THE best biographies I've ever read, and I've read many.
She did this for 4 years.I took away from this biography a great respect and admiration for this woman of genius, who never gave up at and accomplished so very much in a time where women hardly ever even went to college.
Her daughter Eve was amazing at giving a personal, and factual biography of her mother who she admired and loved so much.
This biography was a load of information straight to my head. This book was recommended to me by the school librarian. I would recommend this to those that love science, and want to learn more about an iconic woman who helped shape the world of science.
I recently watched a documentary on Marie Curie and remembered I'd bought an old biography on a whim - what's a few cents when it might be an interesting book about someone I know very little of, other than the part of Marie Curie being a famous Nobel winning scientist who died as a result of her work.
So far many of my book purchases remain seated on the shelf, waiting to be read, but now I had the motivation to pick up Curie's biography and see beyond the details grazed in the documentary.Biographies written by family members have always made me a little wary.
Madame Curie is all that a biography should be. Raw, inspiring and intimate. The book had me both laughing and in tears (both from sorrow and anger) multiple times. Every woman should read this book at some point in her life -- the sooner, the better.
Marie Curie was a genius and with the determination to teach herself in the unfamiliar topics known at that time.
Her husband, Pierre, and herself were able to share their love of one another and of science with the world.
Marie endured the loss of Pierre and continue to remain devoted to accomplishing their dreams.
Science and the improvement of humanity was their focus.
Marie Curie was a person and her personality was unique.
She overcame many obstacles and encouraged women to contribute to science.
Women are able to contribute to the world as wives, mothers, daughters, and experts in the chosen field.
A bit "romantic" in the sense that her daughter wrote it as people talk about the deceased at funerals...as if she was nearly perfect, when in fact we can read between the lines and see that she was not.
One would think a daughter's biography would have included that.
But either the daughter wanted to focus solely on 1) Marie's work (understandably), and 2) her relationship with her husband...or the daughter didn't want to touch the subject of Marie as a mom.
But it was noticeably absent.
And I suspect Marie was noticeably absent as a mom as well.
I read this book in my residential semester at TARC.
I passed my afternoon after afternoons with this book in the library for 2 months.
This is one of the best books I have ever read.
I would love to say this is a must-read for women in STEM.
I loved the childhood part of the book most.
This book taught me a woman should not be guided by the social norms and prejudices about her but by her own determination and intelligence.
Thanks to Eve Curie for letting us know about this wonderful woman.
What a life she led, persevering through hardship after hardship in order to "live for the pursuit of science." The book was written using a combination of the in-person accounts of her youngest daughter, Eve, (the author), friends, family, fellow scientists, and the actual writings of Marie Curie. An intimate account of an extraordinary life that contributed discoveries that have had a great impact ever since her devotion to work in the laboratory and teaching in the classroom was initially commenced as a young woman.
A pleasurable read, but with too much romance and glamour, which Marie Curie's personna does not need. She is hugely impressive as a brilliant human character, and canonization does not contribute to improve what can not be improved. Understandable, though, since the author is Marie Curie's own daughter.
Příběh hezky ubíhá, je to čtivé a zajímavé bez zbytečných detailů o radioaktivitě. Jenom to na mě působilo hrozně "komunisticky" - Marie je nejlepší, nejchytřejší, nejnesobeštější, nejoddanější vlasti a prostě ve všem úplně nej... občas už mi to přišlo trochu přehnané, ale tím nechci nijak snižovat to, co Marie dokázala!
