https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81977.What_Has_Government_Done_to_Our_Money_and_The_Case_for_the_100_Percent_Gold_Dollar
Other theories, like the Keynesian-School, must use intensely complicated and ultimately fallacious concepts to explain common economic phenomena, making for a disinterested public, and an over-reliance on so-called experts to interpret conditions.
It's no surprise then, that Keynesian-School theory is the choice of most modern educational institutions, and the orthodoxy of public policy schools.
It's inscrutability and need for expert interpretation lends itself to use by the state as a lever of control.This book and "Banking", mentioned above, both by renown libertarian scholar Murray Rothbard, give an easy, ground-up primer on the monetary aspect of Austrian-School theory.
Excellent introduction to money and gold dollar.
I learned or rather rediscovered my passion for economics by reading Dr.Rothbard's book.
His effort here is a very short, concise, surprisingly easy one to read.
Rothbard suggests that it is government meddling and its monopolistic strangehold on the creation of money that is responsible for boom-bust business cycles.
He expounds on this sentiment in his narrative regarding the perfect storm of several interdependent events which drive the destructive hyperinflation of our currency.
The dissolution of the gold standard, fractional-reserve banking and the usurpation of the countries treasury by a handful of wealthy private bankers Rothbard asserts as the reason for such a disparity in arms.
Confused about how the Federal Reserve works, or why we need it? Can't figure out what causes inflation? Does the whole financial crisis have you baffled? This is a great place to start working through the muck. If you don't read anything else, read the section on money warehouses, though the whole book is worth a read.
Why do we consider that money, alone among all commodities, needs to be carefully regulated and controlled by a central government and cannot be left in the invisible hands of the free market?
What really is money, how it came to be and what is its price?
Can its creation and regulation be entrusted to the free market?
How did currencies such as the pound and the dollar cease to mean a certain weight of gold and become the fiat moneys they are today?Those are just a few of the questions answered in this book.
It is both engaging and extremely informative.
many people believe we can go back to the gold standard and that it would cause more monetary and economic stability which not possible today. this book provides excellent knowledge on money and the revolution of moneyits a good read. i'd recommend it to whoever is calling to go back to the gold standard,specifically the last two chapters, and what he said about world war I is an explanation on why it is impossible to go back to a gold standard today. NOTE: read the last edition because since the first edition many content changed.
Governments change, but policies rarely seem to.After all, when the creation of false dilemmas is deemed an occupational necessity, their perpetuation becomes an unspoken imperative.
is a cogent account of the evolution of money to facilitate trade, and of its subsequent appropriation by the states and their agencies, the central banks, that eventually led to the de-linking to the gold standard which kept the overall supply of money in check.How this in turn has fostered the now-familiar economic boom-bust cycles is also well argued; and economists from the Austrian school can feel vindicated for having predicted the current state of affairs on this basis.The second part of the book,  The Case for the 100 Percent Gold Dollar , is not as persuasive, even if it does possess theoretical merit.
After reading the essays, it'd be hard to think that, as is often assured, all is well in the world of finance.Rothbard concludes his essay The Case for the 100 Percent Gold Dollar with the following statement, aimed at those who would argue that the ideas he advocates are out of touch with the modern world, or even dangerous.'There is no gainsaying the fact that this suggested program will strike most people as impossibly “radical” and “unrealistic”; any suggestion for changing the status quo, no matter how slight, can always be considered by someone as too radical, so that the only thoroughgoing escape from the charge of impracticality is never to advocate any change whatever in existing conditions.
'What Has Government Done to Our Money' is considered one of the strongest introductions into monetary theory by many liberty-minded individuals.
Rothbard is a literary economist, rather than an academic one, and the unfortunate result is an exploratory work, and not a particularly rigorous one.
The only interesting part of this work is a modest exploration of the history of 'money'.
Unfortunately, Rothbard skips inductive or deductive methodologies, analysis of monetary data, and any semblance of quasi or true experimental design.
My point is not that Rothbard is mistaken (although he is), but rather that his work lends no justification to his claims, or to any claims, for that matter.
But by this last edition, which is still pre-European Union and pre-Euro, the dollar had become a completely fiat currency.
He also talked about our current state of fluctuating fiat currencies, which the author believes, like every other monetary fix, will not last; and, if central banks attempt to make it last it will only give us inflation in the long-run which will be of no benefit to anyone.If you have never read a book on economics or monetary policy, make this your first one.
I expected that a book by an actual economic professor would be much better.
And, yes this book is definitely better.
The usual narrative by mainstream economists is that the rise of the quantity theory of money is what killed the gold standard.
Not only is this not discussed at all in the book, one gets the distinct impression that either Rothbard has never heard of, or worse, dismisses the quantity theory of money.
This is an excellent overview of how and why government interferes with the proper use and role of money in society.
Governments that are too cowardly to tax their citizens the way they would like to, simply steal their money through inflation.
The hard truth here, is that our monetary system is totally screwed up, and all of the current 'ideas' to correct it will only take us in the wrong direction.
A proper cure to our monetary system will hurt, but it won't hurt as bad as the disease we currently have.
An excellent case for the gold standard with intelligent rebuttals to the claimed pitfalls of the same.
The essay at the end, Case for the 100 Percent Gold Dollar, is a great short read if you don't have as much time, or if you want to decide whether to read the book, but the book is far more detailed and perhaps even more reader friendly.
Why do even some otherwise free market types yet call for government regulation of money?
Is there a place for free market types that take the buck all the way to include even money?
Rothbard is ever the genius. This review will not do his book justice.He promotes a free market monetary system with no government control/meddling. He clearly favors a hard metal currency, and a single currency within a country. I am more of a believer in any currency (metal or no) that the free market determines. Thus, I would be more than happy to see concurrent currencies. However, Rothbard does not really broach that issue, he simply mentions it in passing.The book is good and finishes with a brief overview of the history of government meddling in money.
"WHERE'S THE GOLD? LET'S GO GET THE GOLD!!!" --ATHFEver wonder why gold's breaking $900 (Jan 2008), or "if our money isn't based on the gold standard anymore, then what is it based on?"Wonder why our government has rendered our money increasingly worthless for their own power and self-aggrandizement?This book is pretty damn good if you want to take the red pill and see why our government is leading us to financial ruin.As a bonus, you can download a pdf copy or read the html version off of the mises.org website. Just google, "rothbard government money."
Rothbard is the man. His brutally methodical and rational approach to what money is, and what it should be, make his case for a gold standard seem obvious, despite the majority of economists supporting government controlled, fiat currencies and condescendingly mocking 'goldbugs.'After reading from various sources on inflation, deflation, the gold standard, the merits and evils of saving (aka hoarding) and the role of government in creating and regulating money I am convinced that this is the book to go to. Any argument against a gold standard will have to answer Rothbard to remain credible.
If you've ever wondered how humanity went from a bartered system of trade to one that uses FIAT currency, you should read this book. Eye-opening and seriously scary stuff from Rothbard regarding our system of currency and its evolution.
And while I am no libertarian myself, I certainly understand that governments have screwed up monetary policy any time they have gotten involved in it, largely because governments are run by people who do not know what they are doing while seeking short-term gains at the cost of long-term suffering and misery for the very people they express a desire to help.This book makes for fairly grim and unpleasant reading, although I did read it mostly late at night, so I only have myself to blame for whatever nightmares it caused.
The author appears to be of the belief that the gold standard itself would stabilize currencies, although this is perhaps a first step to a larger goal of libertarian behavior.This book provides ample discussion of the fact that government cannot be trusted with a monopoly over monetary policy.
It is there that the unity stops and grave disaccords among various schools of economics - such as mainstream economics (think Krugman) and that of Austrians (think Rothbard) - begin.A MAINSTREAM economicst would finish it something like this: "And THAT IS WHY IT MUST BE controlled and regulated by the government." An AUSTRIAN would go on saying: "And YET, IT IS controlled and regulated by the government."I wonder how many of the world central bankers, as well as (mainstream) economists endorsing the necessity for central banks, have read this classic.
What Has the Government Done to Our Money directly assaults the fraudulent monetary system of fiat currency and reaffirms the sustainability in economic growth of free market currency based on an commodity such as gold and silver.
“The general atmosphere of a sellers’ market will lead to a decline in quality of goods and of service to consumers since consumers often resist price increases less when they occur in form of downgrading of quality.” Not only does inflation destroy business, but the compulsory monopoly of mint in the control of the money supply by central banks destroys free markets even in monetary terms.
Not a political diatribe but a historical panoramic examination of how the entities of government (even from the era of fiefdoms) influenced /polluted the sound principles on which the function of money operates in economic terms.
It is a relatively easy "connect the dots" type of exercise for the reader to then derive his/her own observations about the adverse social, political, and economic impacts of polluting the operational basis of money.
Whether such be instigated by government or private interest, detriment is the result.
Government manipulations however often cause a "double whammy" effect when polluting the principles.
I have been always puzzled by the mechanism by which the monetary system works, how it originated, who control it, and how it ended up so complicated.
This book nearly covered every respect of the entangled topic of money and the role played, and is still being played, by governments to manipulate and control this essential system in our life, and what is the future of our global economy under these conditions.In the upshot, I really do recommend everyone who don't, or superficially, understand the monetary system, specially those so immersed in making a living, to "Stop making money!
until they first understand what is money"
Um livro definitivo sobre como funciona o sistema monetário.Nesta obra espetacular, o economista "au
Rothbard argues that federal tampering with money depreciates the value of the dollar, thus increasing inflation.
More money in the economy is not necessarily good.
If I increase the money supply by 10%, then people have more money to spend on goods.
However, in order to make a profit (or not go broke), the entrepreneur must increase his prices by 10%, so we are back at square one.But it is more sinister than that.
The FED, by means of controlling central bank, can create wealth ex nihilo, sort of like God in Genesis 1.
The more money they create by means of fraction reserve banking, the less our dollar is worth.
The book describes how the banking system and fractional reserve system works. The author explains how the state moved away from the gold standard. He criticizes central banks and governments for destroying money, which is the lifeblood of the whole economy. I would recommend to anyone interested in libertarian economics.//polishKsiążka opisuje jak działa system bankowy oraz system rezerwy cząstkowej. Autor wyjaśnia jak państwa odeszły od standardu złota. Krytykuje banki centralne i rządy za niszczenie pieniądza, który jest krwiobiegiem całej gospodarki. Polecam każdemu zainteresowanemu wolnościową ekonomią.
For anyone interested in understanding the financial crisis in general, or the concept of "what is money?" in particular, I think this book would be a valuable read.The author takes the reader from the origins of commerce in barter all the way to the creation of fiat currencies and modern-day central banking. This book is well-written and easy to get through in one sitting.
I liked this book a lot because it focused on an area of monetary history that I am truly intersted in which is the post gold standard era. I like how Rothbard lays out the monetary breakdown of the western government's in a phased approach.
Rothbard's writing is top-notch - no one explains economics better. This book makes a great introduction to how money and inflation work, and is a good primer for the major points of monetary history in the last century or so. Highly recommended.
A thorough explanation of the tyrannical central banks in the world and fiat money. From gold standard to fiat money, history has showed us the disastrous effect it has on inflation. What Has Government Done to Our Money is the Francisco D'Anconia of anarcho capitalism.
Para indagar más sobre la historia del patrón oro, la comparación entre reserva fraccionaria el coeficiente de 100% y el origen del dinero, lo veo como un buen complemento a la obra similar escrita por Menger.
