https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1169442.Sam
This book was almost unbearable. It is so chauvinistic that it is on equal footing with Helen Andelin's "Fascinating Womanhood." I would give examples, but really, it's on nearly every page. I may have given the book 5 stars if he had died in the end. ;)
I don't really know that much of what's going on, but it's the sequil to charly by jack weyland, and in this book, his parents are trying to find him a new wife, and he doesn't seem at all interested until he meets this really nice girl. He has a six month year old son named adam (I think). I haven't finished reading it so I don't know much about it. But that's why I am reading it, so I can learn about it. But I can tell you I im really interested in it.
I never fall asleep reading books, so that tells you how bored I am.So, his wife's been dead for SIX WEEKS, and the Bishop tells him he needs to start looking for a new one?
Then, when Sam does decide he needs a mother for his kid, he pursues a girl he doesn't love and who is interested in another guy.
Him teaching people and not helping them was drawn out way too long, and it felt like his purpose in the book was to highlight how great Sam was at helping random strangers.Then there's Shirley.
I gave this book 4 stars only for the courtship between Sam and Lara, which was sweet and funny.
There were, however, several things that annoyed me about this book.
It's no wonder Sam was a borderline psycho in that first relationship.
I don't think so.
I also wasn't a fan of Sam's antiquated attitude about a man and woman's role in marriage, but I mostly gritted my teeth through those passages and moved on.
This IS a fairly antiquated book at this point, and I tend to think that most members of the Church know better at this point.
This book doesn’t really work in the 21st century. The entire dilemma in the storyline was the fact that Sam absolutely could not, under any circumstances, handle being married to a professionally successful woman. Also there was one cringeworthy part where Sam puts his son in the car by himself as punishment 🙈🙈 It was a fun story, but I just had to repeat to myself that it was written in a verrryyyy different time. Where both of these things might have been normal. It
I saw the Charley movie and read the book probably over ten years ago and liked it. I don't know if I read Charley now if I would like it. I have my doubts because I just read the follow-up book from Charley, Sam. The book was as corny as they come and it seemed there were some innuendos of how a mother should not work outside of the home and make sure not to drink caffeine, etc.
Good LDS novel, sequel to Charlie.
This book as interesting because it took place after Charly.
The book “Sam” (the sequel to “Charly”) by Jack Weyland is outstanding!
A lot of sequels to books seem to have a hard time staying true to their origin, but this one had no problems!
Luckily, it was hard for me to relate to most areas in this book, but it still seemed to mark me in a way.
Another big thing I learned is that people, including ourselves, need time when tragic events happen.
Pushing things along doesn’t help the grieving process.
With that said, I believe that the theme conveyed in “Sam” is that things will happen when and if they are suppose to.
Sam by Jack Weyland, is the wonderful sequel to the book Charly.
After Sam’s wife, Charly, dies due to cancer, he adventures out to find another woman to love.
Is she really the “one” or will Sam have to keep searching for the right girl?I enjoyed this book a lot.
I loved how Sam didn’t give up on finding another wife, but it wasn’t as exciting as I thought it would be.
Love stories are supposed to make the reader feel their love and connection, but I didn’t feel it while reading this book.
The book Sam by Jack Weyland Is Great!
Its about a guy named sam who lost his wife Charly due to cancer.
He is trying to date again and find another spouse to spend eternal life with him and his son Adam.
I really liked this book, but not as much as Charly.
I liked how he is such a turkey, and they both just kinda mess with each other.
I didn't like how It was not charley with him because they were so perfect together!
Also I didn't like how it ended so soon.
This book is about a guy named Sam and his wife has passed away.
Because he has been on s many dates to find a good mother for Adam.
They live in an apartment and Adam love Laura.The first main character is Sam. Sam gives the story a suspense he is always in a different mood and you don't know what he is going to do next, and what his plans are, and his thoughts.
But when he went out and talked to people and didn't hide away he met Laura.I thought this book was really good.
Less enchanted with this book as I was with Charly.
I didn't feel any personality difference between Sam, Jon, Shirley, Lara, or whomever we were reading about at the time.
As I realized this, I thought about the characters in Charly and found the same problem.
Perhaps everyone has the same personality because the entire story is told from Sam's perspective, but humm...
naw, that couldn't be it.Overall it was nice to see where Sam went after Charly since that book really didn't resolve, but it isn't a book I will reread nor recommend to my children to read.
After time went on he decided his new wife didn't need to be just like Charly.
When he starts dating he had some problems finding out what he wanted his new wife to be like.
He really wanted her and Adam to like each other.
When he got his answer he went on with his plan of finding a new wife.
If you haven't read the book Charly that would be a good one to read to.
It would be best if you read Charly before you read Sam. I would also recommend this book to anyone that would like a good love story.
It does get better, however, and it becomes wonderful.What a ride falling in love is.
I loved how Weyland handled it.
The pace was different than Charly's, not as much time passed, and the cuts didn't feel so drastic.
Of course, Charly isn't in this book either.
I love how Weyland differentiated Lara from Charly.
They certainly aren't the same type of person, but they both made Sam happy.I didn't like the ending very much.
I put the book down feeling like it wasn't quite complete.
Ah well, it still ended well of course.
I read this book as a teenager in the 70's.
This is my first re-read.
But I had an even more difficult time stomaching the 'husband ruling over the wife,' 'the wife follows her husband (rather than having her own relationship with God),' and the 'husband presides as the president of the family, wife helps out as the vice-president' dialogue that filled up the rest of the book.Anyway, sure felt like the book was a waste of my time to read.
I skipped the first quarter of the book where Sam is in his dark place after Charly dies.
He sruggled to find love again.
With a 2 year old son he thinks that he will never find love.
He was called to be on the young single adult committe.
He soon came to love this calling.
He loved doing that.
One night he was off the a young single adult meeting.
During the meeting Lara introduced herself.
After the meeting Sam decided to Introduce himself.
After a couple of date they were soon engaged.
As a normal married couple they had there ups and downs.
But after the downs they were ups.
They were a very happy married couple.
Although I like a lot of the meanings behind Jack Weyland's book, I find his writing style to be poor and rather boring, even more so in Sam. Sam was such a big jerk in this particular novel and bothered me a lot through out the book, as he also did in the first novel.
Sometimes Jack Weyland's little Mormon world settings are quite unrealistic and make Mormons seem like they find themselves to be perfect, never making any mistakes, which bothers me A LOT, since I myself am a Mormon.
The book could have been a lot better.
This is the second book of the series -- and for many years the final part of the story.
It was the "happy ending," that came after the tragedy of the first book.
Everything tied up all nice and neat ..
probably too neat which is why Mr. Weyland revisited the series recently with the final book in the now 3-book series.
I think now that I'm not 16 it rings way too neat and tidy.
There is always collateral damage when someone dies -- especially a parent.
I'm glad Mr. Weyland revisited the series with Adam.
I strong recommend this series.
Adam needs a mom and Sam wants to remarry but does not know at the same time and that chary will approve of he is put in the single adults and find the one Lara.I thought it was a good book it go with Charley I really liked Charley and so this was good liked it because it was happy but at the same time a sad book, it made me happy that he still loves Charley and that he found someone else, but it make me sad that he really miss Charley and when he talks about Charley to other people and him thinking about her.
I think anyone would like this book I they liked Charley they will like it.
Sequel to Charly, also by Jack Weyland. While both are a bit lightweight, I enjoyed both. Sam was, to me, a bit more enjoyable. After Charly's death due to cancer, Sam struggles for awhile and then meets his soon-to-be second wife. What ensues are the very typical, often funny, and occasionally tense adjustments whenever two people are married and must learn to build a new life together. Weyland is in typical form here...if you like his other books, you will like this one. if not, you won't.
I still thought this was a decent book but after Charly, it was really hard to get into it. I immediately fell in love with Charly and loved all of her antics. Lara was a complete opposite and Sam couldn't seem to get it together in this book so that was a little frustrating. Can't say it's not what I wouldn't do if I lost my spouse but it was too much back and forth emotionally for me. Will still read other Jack Weyland books though.
This book was one where you could just not stop reading... Sam is struggling to move on with life after his wife dies of cancer and leaves him with a little boy. Sam doesn't want him to grow up without a mother, so after a little while he got back up on his feet and started dating again after several dates with nice but not what he was looking for girls, he found this one girl who stood out to Sam. I would recommend this book to others if your looking for real life stories.
I didn't like this one as well as I liked Charly. Mostly because I didn't feel like Sam was a very good father. At one point in the book I felt like he was almost abusive. I guess that part in the book was supposed to be funny and maybe I'm blowing it out of proportion but I thought that Mr. Weyland had taken it just a little to far in this one.
Nice sequel to Charly. A book about second chances and just moving forward when life has let you down. The subject matter was heavy, but the dialog was mostly light and witty. I loved Sam and could always see where he was coming from. It's always fun for me to read a book with love as a main component that's been written by a man. It's so enlightening...
This book is a wonderful novel of a widowed fathers life... Jack Weyland keeps your interest by adding twists and turns to the story... even a new girl... but she could never replace charlie... could she? Find out!!! WARNING: i thought that it would be fairly lond and was dissapointed when it was nearly one hundred pages. ugh
Similar book to Charly. It is the continuing story. It was good book but once again very light and cheezy. I wish Sam would have talked more about raising his little boy all by himself. I felt like the little boy was not very much of the conversation. But I liked the love story. Sam finds someone very different than Charly, perfectionist, organized, healthy eater etc.
I felt the same way about this book as I did the first. Very short, underdeveloped, and I still think the main character had some sort of a mental issue. Sam was much stranger in this book than he was in the first. I understand that Charlie's death has taken a toll on him, but he just went off the deep end of craziness.
Re-read this after 25 years. Still a wonderful story with a nice ending. It's a little hard at times to determine if the characters are serious or teasing in their conversations with each other, but truly a "feel good" book with some fun twists. Of course, one can't read this until you've read Charly, but neither book is long or difficult reading, so there's no excuse to not give it a try.
Those who read Charly will definitely want to read this novel and find out what happens to Sam, Charly's husband. How does he cope with being a single father? How does he come to terms with re-entry into the single life pressures of family and church? Find out in this gripping novel.
