https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77289.The_Wind_s_Twelve_Quarters
This collection of stories is a chronological assortment of published work during the first ten years of Le Guin in publication; it is hard to believe she wasn't published until 32, but her enormous talent makes one feel like all those years leading up to the first story were spent in a literary chrysalis.
Le Guin is a master author, and whether or not sci-fi is a reader's preferred genre, her works are important enough to be read by lovers of the written word.Many of the stories in this collection are part of the Hainish cycle, giving great background and flushing out the edges for fans of the series.
Short stories 'The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas' and 'The Day Before the Revolution' elevate this collection of what is already an impeccable achievement of intelligent imagination, to a work of immense wisdom.
Çünkü elimde daha iyisi var.
Size tek bir soru soracağım ve sorunun cevabını yine ben vereceğim.Neden bu kitabı okumalısınız?1.
Karanlığın Sol Eli'ne aşık olduysanız, bu muazzam eserin temelleri olan Kış Kralı'nı bu kitapta okuyabilirsiniz.
Sonrasında bu hikayenin nasıl Karanlığın Sol Eli'ne dönüştüğünü varın siz düşünün.3.
Kitap boyunca adı geçen Odo'yu gözlerinizle görmek isterseniz Devrimden Önceki Gün öyküsü sizin için sürprizler barındırıyor.Evet, bu kitap tanıtımında da söylendiği gibi Le Guin'in ustalık öncesi öykülerinden oluşuyor.
İşte o öykülerden daha sonra nasıl bir görkem yükseleceğini ve şaheser diyeceğimiz eserlere dönüşeceğini bu kitapta görüyoruz.
Karşımızda gencecik ve usta olmaktan uzak bir Le Guin var.
So chronologically, they directly precede those in the later collection The Compass Rose (which I reviewed last week), and if memory serves, I also read this book first.
All three of these are excellent, and among Le Guin's best works, IMO.According to the author's Preface, the latter story, along with "the Word of Unbinding," were the genesis of what later became the Earthsea trilogy, while "Semley's Necklace" provided the inspiration for her novel Rocannon's World (which I have not read).
Reto #27 PopSugar 2018: Un libro ambientado en otro planeta A pesar de que Ursula K. Le Guin es una de mis escritoras favoritas de ciencia ficción, los cuentos de esta antología me han dejado más bien fría e imagino que por eso es que he tardado tanto en terminarla.Creo que se debe a que al ser relatos tan cortos (17 en total para 340 páginas), Le Guin no alcanza a desplegar esa visión sociológica y antropológica que materializa en culturas extraterrestres y que permite reflexionar, a su vez, s
Le Guin es una de mis escritoras favoritas de ciencia ficción, los cuentos de esta antología me han dejado más bien fría e imagino que por eso es que he tardado tanto en terminarla.Creo que se debe a que al ser relatos tan cortos (17 en total para 340 páginas), Le Guin no alcanza a desplegar esa visión sociológica y antropológica que materializa en culturas extraterrestres y que permite reflexionar, a su vez, sobre nuestra propia sociedad.
Por otra parte, me conmovió mucho el cuento Cosas y, a pesar de ser más fantasía que ciencia ficción y para un público más juvenil, me sorprendió mucho El poder de los nombres.
The best in this bunch are - The Masters and The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas, hard to explain what they are about though...Almost forgot, another good thing about the collection is that all stories are preceded by the author's introductions.
It seems to be a favorite of many readers, but I have absolutely no idea what happened in it.The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas - Hugo (short story 1973)The Day Before the Revolution - Nebula (short story 1974)
Le Guin's first short story collection, which includes: Semley's Necklace: A Story - 4/5 - prologue 
There are stars in the earth, he thought, if one knew how to see them.How can one come up with worlds so diverse and so convincing, when one must unfold their story in such short space and time?
Le Guin post mortem –for the first time, mind you- was a rather interesting and emotionally diverse experience for a variety of reasons.I was rather skeptical at first: I am not particularly familiar with short stories (Poe’s excluded) and The Wind’s Twelve Quarters was entrusted to me by my wi- *ahem* best friend as something dearly precious.
I've only read one other Ursula Le Guin book (The Left Hand of Darkness, which I loved for making me think so hard), so it was a treat to get a range of her short stories.
But after reading The Wind's Twelve Quarters, I feel like I know Le Guin much better and consequently, got a good insight in her creative process.
The stories also show Le Guin's impressive range--sentient trees, aliens, winter planets, time-travel, myth or however you want to categorize Omelas--arranged roughly in chronological order.
I loved Winter's King so much, especially the bit about abdegnation.
Her first collection (1975). Currently rereading ( 9/18/17). Opens with "Semley's Necklace", one of her 2 best shorts.Very nice cover art, uncredited, probably by Pauline Ellison:http://www.isfdb.org/wiki/images/0/08...
Las doce moradas del viento es un compendio de diecisiete relatos reunidos en orden cronológico y prologados por Rosa Montero que ofrecen una amplia perspectiva de los fascinantes universos creados por la autora a lo largo de su extensa carrera.
No sé si es por la disposición de los relatos, por su naturaleza altamente heterogénea o, como ya digo antes, por las altas expectativas con que afrontaba su lectura, pero Las doce moradas del viento me ha tenido deambulando constantemente entre una maravillosa sensación de efervescencia narrativa y un aburrimiento soporífero.
I enjoyed this overall and quite liked a number of the stories.
I didn't particularly like how curated this collection is by Le Guin.
Eventually, I'd read the story first and go back to her comments.
But it made the whole collection seem less about the stories and more about the author.
I was surprised that two of my favorite stories are set in the Earthsea world, as I really didn't like The Wizard of Earthsea.
The stories I enjoyed were: The Word of Unbinding, The Rule of Names, Winter's King, Vaster than Empires and More Slow, The Stars Below, The Field of Vision and The Day Before the Revolution.
Amazed...
compilación de 15 historias creo, unas me gustaron bastante otras no tanto, pero como alguien que siempre quizo leer algo de la autora pero estaba demasiado intimidada para hacerlo agradezco que exista esta libro.
The second half offers some more early stories and illustrate why Le Guin is one of the greeters American writers.
The Day Before the Revolution and Vaster than Empires But More Slow are both tales from the Hainish Cycle and are probably two of Le Guin better short stories; but The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas is possibly one of the finest examples of fiction illustrating the cost of Utopia and leaves each reader wondering if paying the price of utopia is worth the attainment.
I finished this book like you leave a welcoming country, hoping to get back some day.
Un imprescindible de Le Guin, bueno, como prácticamente todo lo que ella escribe.
Perhaps it buys into the myth of the solitary genius a little too much, but I'm not sure."Darkness Box": a fun and clever story:His bright, shadowless, windowless room was decorated on every wall with patters of gold inset with topazes, opals, crystals, and, most vivide of all jewels, candle flames moveless on golden sconces .
A little funny and with a powerful bitter finish."The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas": My very favorite story in the collection.
They leave Omelas, they walk ahead into the darkness, and they do not come back.
But they seem to know where they are going, the ones who walk away from Omelas.
🤐
The ultimate Ursula K Le Guin pick-and-mix; full of stories that don't really hold my interest (the medieval, Earthsea-ish stories), and the harder, weirder sci-fi stories I love (particular the Ekumen/Hainish stories). They are all beautifully written, but it definitely draws a solid line between my personal preferences.
I spent a long time looking for this short story collection without even realizing it.
I couldn't remember the title or author and scoured the web to find this story.
In the end, I asked around a few sites and was told that the story was the Hugo award winning short  The Ones Who Walk Away From Omelas .
Most of the stories collected here deal with loss, longing, and the understanding of ones place in an ever-evolving world.
There were some clunkers ("A Trip to the Head," for one, and "The Stars Below," for another), but they were nicely counteracted by some really great works like "The Ones Who Walk Away From Omelas," "Nine Lives," and "Darkness Box." Plus, it includes the two stories that were the first venture into Earthsea (and she notes in the prologue several inconsistencies one might notice), and the story that led her to write The Left Hand of Darkness.
All in all, it's pretty much like any short story collection by a single author - some great ones, some mild ones, and some mediocre ones.
Excellent collection of stories spread out over a substantial range of Le Guin's career.
Le Guin's stories are very much focused on the psychological and emotional consequences of distance, travel, and alien-ness.
Le Guin acknowledges as much in her notes (very insightful comments precede most of the stories collected here) and has much more to say about the later stories.
I was also very glad to discover Mr. Underhill from 'The Rule of Names', a story i read and loved more than 20 years back without recalling or maybe ever noting the author.Owe thanks to a friend for recommending this one, was quite a special collection.
Nakon dosta godina sto ova knjiga nije bila dostupna na nasim prostorima, eto netko normalan se nasao da ju objavi i to prosireno izdanje.
Ova zbirka prica me vratila u doba kada sam zavolio Ursulu citajuci Zemljomorje, Lijeva ruka tame, Ljudi bez icega...i sad shvacam da ju volim jos, i to puno.
Neke kasnije zbirke prica kao Ribar unutrasnjeg mora, Ruza kompasa...me nisu fascinirale i cesto sam se pitao, kako to???
Ali ova knjiga je predivna, niti jedna prica nije losa, doslovno od prve do posljednje.
Sad mi dodje da sve njene knjige ponovo procitam...
I'm very picky about short stories, usually preferring novels, but this collection is absolutely magical, in every sense of the word. Le Guin's variety of voices and styles is nothing short of amazing, and each of these is a completely realized gem.
I am a huge fan of UKL, especially her early work, so this was a real treat.
Generally, I found this collection of some of her very first stories a bit rough around the edges at times, though with glimmers of the greatness evident in her best work.
As with her work generally, these stories are often metaphors for something deeper, something real and meaningful, often some aspect of society or human relationships.

Also, although her stories contain imagined gadgetry and future landscapes that is secondary to the human and nonhuman emotion expressed (the blurb on the back cover states it better; "..all of them are concerned with human values, relationships, and survival under every kind of stress and turmoil." I don't usually read science fiction, but I've read her book The Earthsea Trilogy and loved it.
As a bonus, she has many other books I can read.
Sadly, she died at 88 this year so there will be no more books from her.
An overall excellent collection of stories, though some were a bit too experimental for my personal taste. The ones in which Le Guin explores the limits of science and ethics are the most interesting ones, particularly Omelas and the one with the astronomer. I’m glad BTS got me into reading this sooner because of their references to Omelas; now I can’t wait to delve into the author’s other works.
En general, me ha resultado una lectura bastante insulsa. Algunos cuentos me han parecido un sinsentido tremendo. Ha habido un par que realmente me han gustado y que además, forman parte de los mundos de otras de sus novelas, por lo que me ha picado el gusanillo para leerlos. Espero que en novela me convenza más que en cuentos.
