https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/930176.The_Burning_Court
I loved the mystery, but, sadly, the writing ruined it for me. To me, Carr's writing (having read none of his other works, I don't know whether this problem is peculiar to The Burning Court or, more generally, to Carr's style) proved unable to make each character's individuality stand out, resulting in confusion, boredom, and complete lack of interest on my part. I confess I skipped many parts and read with true attention only the last pages, obviously dedicated to the solution to the case—and what a (double-faced) solution.
I shall reserve the fourth half-hand for science fiction.John Dickson Carr was an American mystery writer in the mid-20th-century.
THE BURNING COURT is methodical, solid and educational.
The plot involves a detective doing his thing against a macabre and only seemingly supernatural background.
If that's a spoiler you'll hate this book anyway.
I love the sample sentence the dictionary provides, courtesy of Thornton Wilder: "They suffered the eternal pleasantries with stolid patience.")John Dickson Carr was quite a good writer.
John Dickson Carr was absolutely realistic.
But I can't muster a jot of affection for Gideon Fell, his detective.
This book has been ranked as one of the 100 top mysteries ever written. I can understand that. A very interesting book about a man who marries a young woman and begins to think she's the incarnation of woman who was burned as a witch in the 17th century. This after some strange goings on at his home. There are two impossible crimes: one in which someone sees the murderer walk through the wall, another where the body is stolen out of a masoleum just after everyone walks out.The ending is wonderful.
خب؛ صد و یازدهمین کتاب ثبت ده ر سایت گودریدز.لابد تا الآن دوستان عزیز متوجه سلیقه بنده در کتابها شدند و بیشتر از آن هم متوجه آسان نگرفتن اینجانب در کیفیت این آثار شدند.با تمام این اوصاف؛ جان دیکسون کار فوقالعادست!طراحی داستانی جنایی و معمایی با پیرنگ ماوراء الطبیعه، کاری بود که فقط از استاد بزرگ ژانر سر آرتور کانن دویل برمیآمد و دیکسون کار؛ در زمانی که استاد بزرگ، علاقه اش نسبت به مسائل ماوراءالطبیعه رو به فزونی گذاشت و وقت خود را صرف تحقیق و تفحص و نگارش کتابی در مورد احضار ارواح کرد؛ همچون شاگ
خب؛ صد و یازدهمین کتاب ثبت ده ر سایت گودریدز.لابد تا الآن دوستان عزیز متوجه سلیقه بنده در کتابها شدن
The set-up sounds like a standard "golden age" mystery plot: a wealthy man is murdered, apparently by poison in a locked room.
The author, the master of the locked-room mystery genre, surprises us, however, with different characters (his familiar series detectives do not appear), a different setting (rural Pennsylvania rather than Britain), and most importantly, a different type of logic in the case's solution.
Carr was a master of the mystery novel form, and part of his mastery was his ability to play with readers' expectations and then subvert them, often with stunning effect, as in this classic, one-of-a-kind book.
Widely considered to be the best non-series novel Carr ever wrote, this is a curious mixture of horror and intrigue.
On the one hand, Carr keeps a tight lid on the sensational plot, withholding full disclosure until the last possible moment, demonstrating his ability as a master plotter.
On the other hand, the air of supernatural menace (Carr's secret spice) is localized to a few key scenes, and never persuasively commingles with the traditional whodunit trappings.
Though Carr acknowledges the influence of M.R. James, he is, in the end, a writer of mysteries, not horror stories.
The ending makes the book.
found this on the karl edward wagner 3x13 list:http://miskatonicbooks.wordpress.com/...it's basically a 3-star locked room / impossible crime-type mystery until the epilogue, which explodes the whole thing into something much better. something which will maybe live forever? or not. a long time, anyway. forever is tough.but it's nice to see someone really nail an ending.
Дали заради високите очаквания или прякото сравнение с Агата Кристи, тази книга изобщо не ми хареса.
До един момент имаше заплитане на интрига и загадка за разкриване, включиха се мистични и магьоснически мотиви, които обещаваха интересна развръзка.
Описаното в него продължение на историята ме разочарова и съсвсем затвърди негативното ми отношение.Може да съм твърде крайна в оценката си заради високите си първоначални очаквания или пък заради желанието да прочета едно класическо добро криминале.
Вместо това все попадам на истории със свръх естествени сили като тази на Пол Дохърти, та живите мъртавци и поклонниците на Сатаната ми дойдоха в повече.Не знам дали ще дам повече шанс на този автор, но определено продължавам да издирвам добро криминале и се надявам на препоръки.https://prezprozoreca.wordpress.com/2...
Not surprisingly,"The Bourning Court" is truly a masterpiece, one of the greatest of Carr and of every time.It's a historical mystery, with a Locked Room, a case of reincarnation, and a setting learned in the times of King Louis XIV.The novel basically talks about the affair of the poisons ( the case of the Marquise de Brinvilliers and of her lover, the Chevalier Gaudin de Saint-Croix ): two hundred years later when a woman turns out to be the reincarnation (or should be) of the Marquise de Brinvilliers , with all that then ensues, among which a Locked Room.
This book surprised me from the first page, when I discovered that - unlike almost all of Carr's other works - it's set in America and features only Americans.
I'm not going to say much about the plot, but the twin impossible crimes featured here are lucidly explained at the end.I found the writing in this one to be the best of all Carr's books.
The tone in the others sometimes seems forced to me, with Carr reaching a bit too far to suggest menace or humor, but there are no wrong notes here.
I'm a big fan of Carr's series work, but I think this non-series book is probably his masterpiece.
An impossible puzzler with a distinctly Daphne du Maurier-esque ending, which is why I picked up the book, having read about it in The Fantastic (Todorov). Carr is a vivid and deft writer; one of the more curious and interesting aspects of his work was seeing the conventions of the British mystery plot (and personages, motifs, right down to use of clothes and stations/relations, town and house as shorthand) portaged over to the U.S. The Burning Court is set in the 1970s somewhere outside New York. Really a fun and informative read for students of mystery and the uncanny.
Almost gave this a 5. This is the first I've read by Carr, a prolific 1930's 'Golden Age' mystery writer, and I really enjoyed the detailed, intricate plotting (which I understand is his trademark). An impossible crime setup with great atmosphere and macabre coincidences. Toss the word 'supernatural' into the description and it becomes a little clearer why this was considered controversial when it was first released. Subverted expectations excellently executed (alliteration FTW).
After reading Sherlock Holmes, Agatha Christie, Patricia Highsmith , i was in search of an author who was as good. And i found one in Great John Dickson Carr aka Carter Dickson.Awesome story, gripping, unputdownable & last 3 pages sent a chill through my bones.One of the best i have read till date.
This book engrossed but puzzled me; it couldn’t seem to decide what it wanted to be, a mystery or horror novel. And rather than blend the two genres, it seemed to jump back and forth between them. This would make more sense if I could be more specific, but if I did that, I would create some howling spoilers, so I will refrain.
It is very well written; unfortunately, he does try to give a supernatural explanation for some mysterious occurrences. It will give you goose-bumps when you are hit with the strange "coincidences" and eerie atmosphere - especially the opening of the crypt in the middle of the night. The ending is completely satisfying.
John Dickson Carr is a master at creating believable solutions so seemingly impossible crimes that seem to have supernatural causes. One of the things that makes his locked room mysteries page-turners is the frightening atmosphere he creates -- in Burning Court there's witchcraft, a crypt, and a woman who's alive but who was supposedly put to death in the previous century.
Perhaps the spookiest of Carr's mysteries; highly recommended if you enjoy mysteries with gothic overtones. The usual warning applies, however: Carr's attitudes concerning women and what he would probably have described as the lower classes is quite dated, so you will probably want to skip this if those attitudes make you crazy.
Mystery filled with supernatural and witchcraft references and a ton of red herrings with some historical references thrown in. The first about 90% of the story is filled with information and explanations as to what happened and then things are made clear with the final explanation.
Sort messe, or "The Burning Court" is a novel (and radio play) I've gone through many times through the years, but I never seem to tire of it. Part murder mystery, part ghostly thriller, it's my favorite John Dickson Carr.
Excellent.. was this written so early in the century. Ending blew me away
Great book. Enjoyed it very much with the twist at the end.
This is a good tale for someone that enjoys clever writing. The ending is either a big disappointment or really awesome.
An enjoyable book, old but timeless. This one is considered one of the best mystery novels of all time, and it surely deserves that label. If you're a fan of the genre, this one is a must read.
Except for some words that don't exist in todays vocabulary, this was a great mystery. Didn't know they talked about paranormal back in 1937 when this was written.
Един ръкопис от доста извратен последовател на Поаро, опитващ се да изследва злата човешка природа от прекалено близо; една поразителна прилика със снимки от преди стотици години, и възмутително подозрително поведение на всички замесени в една малка стая, всеки с алиби и мотив едновременно, плюс кълба от тъмнина в миналото им – и коктейлът от безумие и нелогичност е готов.До последната страница няма да сте сигурни дали четете криминален или призрачен хорър роман, даже до последния ред, след който ще сте още по-малко сигурни – самозаблуждение, душевна травма, или нереалното те гледа с огнени очи от прашния ъгъл на тавана?
By the middle of the story, I would have rated it a 4; however, I felt uneasy towards the end and once I finished the book.
I'm uneasy with the proclamation due to my review: Does this mean, then, I may not find his other (non-series) books interesting?
As an aside, the back cover conveys a beautiful woman is seen, yet within the story the woman's face is actually not seen/visible, according to the witness (Mrs. Henderson)!
Also, the character who turns out to be that woman is described throughout the book as pretty, but I never got the impression that she was 'beautiful'.
Posso dire di averlo apprezzato più di La casa ma sicuramente meno di altri titoli di Carr quali Delitti da mille e una notte o L'arte di uccidere, quindi di certo non lo considero fra i migliori lavori che il maestro ha lasciato.
So che Carr ha esplorato diverse varianti del giallo (da quella basata sulla classica investigazione deduttiva a quella che si appoggia al sovrannaturale come in questo caso, appunto), probabilmente questa non è quella che fa per me, pazienza, i lavori che ci ha lasciato sono parecchi e sono sempre in tempo per scoprirne e apprezzarne altri!
Giallo dall'atmosfera raffinata, ma anche soprannaturale e macabra che fa tanto 'victorian style'... Interessante la 'doppia' camera chiusa. Peccato che mi son letta i capitoli finali ieri sera, con un sonno micidiale, e non ci ho capito niente. Stamattina li ho ripresi e mi son chiarita un po' le idee. Solo che, dall'Isola della paura in poi, i finali doppi, in sospeso, ecc... mi stan diventando 'indigesti'. Ne trovo da tutte le parti...
Først løses den vanlige detektivfortellingen, hvor alt spriker og enhver løsning er umulig. Deretter får du en logisk forklaring for så i epilogen å vri det hele rundt en gang til. En genial bok med en spennende historie.
Many have referred to this as Carr's "masterpiece." It has been called the "the best horror novel of the 20th century." I can add nothing to these words of praise, except, "Wow!" A surprise on every page, perfect in every way, and mystifying. Whew!
