https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6402364-superfreakonomics
Mostly more of the same as Freakonomics with riffs on Malcolm Gladwell's books thrown in.
The glaring difference is the chapter on climate change which attempts to go waaay beyond the author's expertise in behavioral economics and contains unfortunate misrepresentations of climate science.
For a detailed critique, I'd recommend: http://www.ucsusa.org/global_warming/...
Still, there's no denying that convincing the public to recognize the need to curb CO2 emissions is an almost impossible task.
Apparently, the authors had a deadline to meet and tried to predict that the Senate would behave rationally!
All in all, I'm starting to think that behavioral economics is better at explaining after the fact than predicting.
All the chapters in this book start with 'How is' and then two subjects are compared or contrasted, so in this spirit I ask, How is a follow-up book like a Shepherd's Pie?Because shepherd's pie is made with the bits of meat discarded or not finished at a previous meal.
And so it is with this book.
Chapters not good enough to make it into the superb Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything have been recycled into this book.
It's ok, but like anything that isn't first-choice, it's not got that wow factor, amaze me, tell me all these things about the world I'd never even thought of.
(They are still arguing over whether Franklin Roosevelt's policy moves quelled The Great Depression or exacerbated it.)It seems part of the human condition to believe in our own predictive abilities - and, just as well, to quickly forget how badly our predictions turned out to be.SPORTY WOMEN ARE SUCCESSFULBetsey Stevenson discovered that girls who play high-school sports are more likely to attend college and land a solid job, especially in some of the high-skill fields traditionally dominated by men.SELLING HOUSES BY YOURSELF ON THE INTERNET V SELLING VIA A REALTOR (ESTATE AGENT.)With the latter you pay a commission of about $20,000 on a $400,000 house, and research shows that there are very few benefits.
Ugh, pop culture trash masquerading as economics (in turn masquerading as hard science).There were so many glaring flaws in the authors' assumptions, "logic", and conclusions that within just the introduction they had already lost all credibility.Right up front the authors declare that fears about global warming are overblown because the issue will likely be solved by technological innovation and then offer as proof the fact that cars eliminated the problems caused by horse-based transportation.
So, you know, don't worry everyone we're sure to have a "solution" to global warming with even larger negative externalities any day now!
But don’t ever forget that people are not simple – they are always complex – and just because you think you have them down pat they are always, ALWAYS capable of surprising you either with how nice they can be or with how bloody appallingly they can behave.If this book had done this and been consistent in having done this I probably would have given it five stars.
Those renegade, cold blooded micro economists are back for more fun filled worldly observations and scathing attacks on the status quo. This time around the pair explore the economics of the worlds oldest profession and the myths and realities of global warming. Makes me want to consider the incentives of most every occurrence and transaction. Levitt is on to something pretty cool here.
Realtors (pimpact vs.
LoJackMt Pinatubo teaches a lessonthe obscenely smart, somewhat twisted gentlemen of Intellectual VenturesAssassinating mosquitoes"Sir, I am every kind of scientist!"an inconvenient truthinesswhat climate models missis carbon dioxide the wrong villain?big-ass volcanoes and climate changehow the cool the earththe "garden hose to the sky"reasons to hate geoengineeringjumping the repugnance barrier"soggy mirrors" and the puffy-cloud solution (over water)why behavior change is so harddirty hands and deadly doctorsforeskins are fallingEpilogue--Monkeys are people toomicroeconomics experiment teaching monkeys to use moneyprice shocks & income shocksgambling: loss aversioncrime paysprostitutionfear of damage to monkey social structure ends experiments
As a result, I had faith that the authors would stick more to their field.
As it turns out, they get more and more ridiculous as the book progresses, finishing off with a pair of shitshows.
What bothered me most about the global cooling chapter wasn't so much the views the authors develop but that they were trying to influence people on something they seem to know little about.
Why didn't they stick to the economics of global climate change?
That would have been just as interesting and more their field.
Yes. Interesting?
This book is even better than Freakonomics. The amount of insights and information (from different fields) you get exposed to is incredible. I am liking "economics" much more after reading their books (Levitt and Dubner).
if i took their chapter at face value, i would think that the solution for global climate change was simple cheap and without scary consequences, but a real easy (and fast) google search showed me the many mistakes that they made.
the story about cooling in the 70's is something you hear alot from global warming skeptics, which is concerning when you read it in a book by so-called "cold-blooded economists", a simple look at the meta-analysis will show you there was no scientific conclusion about the 1970's "global cooling".
That's fine if it's a book like Savannah Blues but this book demanded more concentration, especially since the writing style was highly tangential to begin with.Those who read “Freakonomics” are familiar with what the authors offer: a conglomerate of light, entertaining facts which offer new ways of looking at things, generally falling under the umbrella of studying the way people respond to incentives, a.k.a. behavioral economics.
An interesting dog's breakfast of apparently unrelated essays supposedly on microeconomics, though the chapter on global warming ended up almost entirely on "global" issues.
Oh. That's what they did!That global warming chapter "What to Al Gore and Mount Pinatubo have in common?" is the best in the book.
No, the answer is not because both spouted a lot of hot air; it's "Gore and Pinatubo both suggest ways to cool the planet, albeit with methods whose cost-effectiveness are a universe apart."The cost-effectiveness ratio of the $40 asking price is out of whack, too, but I found it on the "80% off table".
From monkey prostitution to raising a terrorist......I found this book interesting, frustrating, fascinating and infuriating (mostly at the same time).
The duo that brought  Freakonomics  with answers to why drug dealers live with their mothers and how the name that your parents gave you can determine which job you end up getting have now given us  Superfreakonomics.
To rogue economists or mad scientists this books meanderings may be make perfect sense, but to the likes of me I had a job trying to fathom how we got from one subject to another and then back to the original one at times.
When I read Freakonomics a few years ago I gave it 2 stars.
Some of the reviews on here about this book have said that the authors got this thing right and that thing wrong, and while that may (or may not) be true, the fact is this: they've included their research sources, so if you really do have an issue with them, then it's game on.
While they are using economic principles and methods to explain some rather unusual, non-economic things, they aren't trying to be the end-all source of wisdom.
While the chapters treated the topic at hand, they seemed to be much more scattershot in terms of finding a number of correlations in data that "swirled" around the main hypothesis of the chapter.As with many reviewers, I think that Dubner and especially Levitt have stepped a little outside their expertise with some of the topics in this book and with the ongoing Freakonomics "brand," particularly their podcast.
Of course there are the problems with the climate science in this book, but also there have been several episodes of their podcast that have seemed overly credulous, particularly when it comes to "rogue scientists" who fit well with the "rogue economist" brand.
I wanted to love it, because I loved Freakonomics.
I don't know if they really chose less captivating topics than last time, but it felt like it.
Also, if you happen to have read all or several of Malcolm Gladwell's and Atul Gawande's books, and even that Oshinksy book about the history of polio in the U.S., this book will feel largely like something you've already read somewhere else.
Perhaps if you haven't read any of those other books, this one might feel original and interesting.
But I bet it still won't feel as interesting as Freakonomics was.
I really enjoy reading books that challenge you to question conventional wisdom.
If you like Malcolm Gladwell I definitely recommend this book.
Also, many of the statistical conclusions are nothing short of outlandish, for example, telling me that statistically I could drive in a car continuously for 285 years before I would be likely to die in a drunk driving accident.
Also, definitely look up the group called "Intellectual Ventures", they are brilliant minds who believe the best solutions are cheap and simple.
I definitely recommend this book but read it WITH A HUGE GRAIN OF SALT.
Awesome read!
The book also indicates that if, by some miracle, such agreements were achieved it would be too late to make any meaning contribution toward preventing global warming.
Based on the above premise, the book suggests that the most effective way to reduce global warming is to use geo-engineering methods to directly address the amount of sun energy reaching the earth.
This type of transition will be pushed by true economic reality, not cap-and-trade rules.The following are some multiple choice test questions that cover some of the issues contained in this book.
This book (Series actually of freakonomics& super-freakonomics) helps the reader seeing the word from an economist (or homo economicus) point of view where everything is understood, explained and presented purely based on data.
The facts & data presented will educate you on various topics about which usually people have misperception, so 100% educating.3.
gets your attention and makes the whole read 100% fascinating.Am a big fan now of authors now.Full marks, 5 out of 5.2018: 5 Down 45 to go (or as homo economicus would say....
In which we discuss compelling aspects of birth and death, though primarily death.The worst month to have a baby…The natal roulette affects horses too…Why Albert Aab will outshine Albert Zyzmor…The birthdate bulge…Where does talent come from?…Some families produce baseball players; others produce terrorists…Why terrorism is so cheap and easy…The trickle-down effects of September 11…The man who fixes hospitals…Why the newest ERs are already obsolete…How can you tell a good doctor from a bad one?…“Bitten by a client at work”…Why you want your ER doc to be a woman…A variety of ways to postpone death…Why is chemotherapy so widely used when it so rarely works?…“We’re still getting our butts kicked by cancer”…War: not as dangerous as you think?…How to catch a terrorist.Chapter 3.
The fact that the privatized realm of prostitution is illegal, porn – mass distributed evidence of people getting paid for sex – clearly negates such stupid illegalities.
If the, no doubt, somewhat correct information on Wikipedia.com is any indication, any given organ transplant in the US costs between $100,000 and a cool million.
The discussions about Global Warming are most interesting with, of course, a certain scientific disregard for most of what floats the simplistic Gorisms that we’re constantly barraged with; those that elicit the inevitable flashbacks of the boiling frog, submerged Florida, and the only extant polar bear making cameos on Lost.
So does it follow that I should question absolutely everything I "know" to be true?
Some level of taking things on faith is necessary to function in the world, but it certainly makes me more skeptical of those who purport to have the single correct scientific interpretation of any set of data or events.A few years ago, Freakonomics set off a trend of similar books (some are even very good), with the result that this book doesn't have the sparkle of originality found in the first.
The structure of each chapter occasionally makes it hard to follow because Steven and Stephen like to set up all of their seemingly unrelated examples first before pulling them together and drawing the conclusion that links them all.
I loved the first Freakonomics, but since then, they've started a blog, and they inspired me to read/watch/listen to other economists who study popular phenomena or rational/irrational thought (Tim Harford and Dan Ariely are two favorites among them).
The sections on prostitutes and terrorists are as boring as anything about prostitutes or terrorists can be, and certainly not as interesting as the gang culture investigation, or the crime vs abortions parts of the first book.
I think this material is best suited for their blog - short posts about interesting studies/observations are more enjoyable.
Initially I found it amusing to see the absurd conclusions made through cherry picking outlier results based on correlational and/or poorly designed research studies.
The second book, SuperFreakonomics, didn't bore me or amuse me, it scared me.
Once again, statistics is used to over-rule proper research design and the requirement of all good research to provide support from literature reviews based on quality methods was ignored.
Unfortunately brash comments litter his second foray into popular literature from intro to the final page, hardly masking the lack of clever or quality research.
Levitt dwells on prostitution far longer than the topic merits (we get it: simple economic principles like supply, demand, and pricing tend to hold even in this unconventional industry), seemingly largely for a platform to make juvenile sex jokes.
A mere sentence on the hardships of the rank and file amidst pages of "research" resonates as insincere.Once Levitt gets around to matters of consequence like global warming, he dances around any meaningful conclusions and instead romanticizes doomsday geoengineering fantasies.
Meanwhile, the first book's popularity has generated a heady incentive for the two of them to produce a book more quickly, no doubt clearing a lower bar to reap the significant profit coming from their expanded readership.
A prime example of the effect of competition on this book is the mention of impact of birth month on sporting careers; the authors mention that they had been preparing a longer article on the subject, but Gladwell beat them to it.
High points such as the article about climate change remind me why "Freakonomics" isn't such a dismal science, but they don't qualify as a fully realized book.
This book, as its title assures the readers, is SUPER.
Freakonomics was a big success that made me an addict to the Superfreakonomics right away.
This has never happened before in my reading experience.Superfreakomoics, similar to its predecessor, simply outlines the relationship between incentives and human behavior.
This time however, the authors discuss even more interesting topics.The book is so well written because it uses the question-and-answer method, and not any question, and amazingly the anwsers are mostly freaky.
I just wish that this series would cover literally EVERYTHING there is in this world.Super interesting.
Super entertaining.
Can't wait for the next book in line.
Розумні люди - неймовірні, а ще краще коли ці розумні люди пишуть книги і змінюють світ. Книга про суперфрікономіку це надиво цікавезна статистика із непередбачуваними але міцними зв’язками, яка подається під соусом історій із життя сучасного глобалізованого суспільства. Я навіть не можу собі уявити жодної причини, щоб проігнорувати цю захоплюючу трилогію від Стівена Левіта і Стівена Дабнера.
3.5 stars, but the car seat chapter made me extra happy so I'll give it a boost.
I hate having this discussion with other moms because so many of them will respond with, "If it makes my child safer, it's worth it." I remember reading something from Tom Sowell about water purification.
It's obvious from the book--the test facilitators were terrified that the car seat companies would find out what the authors were doing.
Would you make any recommendations that would DECREASE the use of car seats if that's what your company makes?Anyway, this book is fantastic.
