https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12067.Good_Omens
Of course, that story is all explained in the appendix, provided you don't pick up an original printing of the book (if you do do that, however, you can probably sell it for quite a bit of change, so don't be discouraged by your lack of author interviews).But the real story at hand is, of course, the narrative of Good Omens itself--the tale of two friends, a demon named Crowley and an angel named Aziraphale who have spent all of human existence on earth and have rather come to like it, so when it comes time for the Apocalypse, they try to do whatever is in their powers to stop it.
So, in the spirit of granting a right of reply, here's What Good Omens Might Have Thought Of Madam Bovary"I saw this smashin' film yesterday on TV," said Adam, as the Them listened attentively.
"It was called Madam Bovver-Boy -""She was a lady skinhead?" interrupted Brian."No, stupid," said Adam.
Bovver-Boy. By Flow-Bear.""You mean Madame Bovary, by Flaubert," said Wensleydale.
"I read about it in The Encyclopaedia of World Literature."Adam gave him a withering glance.
Her tongue's hanging out and she's screamin' -""Why did she max out her credit card?" asked Pepper."She was buying presents for her lovers," said Adam.
Overall, this book was a huge disappointment for me.
This is going to be one of the most entertaining books I’ve ever read.” It was like reading The Hitchhiker’s Guide for the first time again.
I think that I was supposed to find them and their inane conversations entertaining, maybe even a little bit cute, but every time they came around, which felt like quite a bit, I thought that the book just screeched to a halt.Most of the other characters in the book were great fun to read—the demon and the angel and their strange sort of friendship was easily the best part of the book for me.
(A-) 80% | Very GoodNotes: Not as funny as I’d anticipated, and at times it’s a bit too absurd for my tastes, but a good ending and loads of charm.
In my personal hierarchy of books, this one comes a close second after Bulgakov's The Master and Margarita. What can I say - like (diabolical) father, like (infernal) son. "It may help to understand human affairs to be clear that most of the great triumphs and tragedies of history are caused not by people being fundamentally good or fundamentally bad, but by people being fundamentally people."In a way, I can view this book as my own personal therapy session - that is, in addition to it being a h
And so the unlikely allies decide to band together to prevent the end of the world."That's how it goes, you think you're on top of the world, and suddenly they spring Armageddon on you." Except things do not go as planned....(The lovely images above can be seen here and here).You see, the young 'Adversary, Destroyer of Kings, Angel of the Bottomless Pit, Great Beast that is called Dragon, Prince of This World, Father of Lies, Spawn of Satan, and Lord of Darkness', due to an unforeseen turn of circumstances, happens to grow up outside of the influence of either celestial/underworld force.
But it’s cleverly disguised as a madcap caper featuring angels, demons, the M25 motorway, Manchester, raining fish, dolphins, Atlantis, aliens, the Apocalypse, the young Antichrist, Americans, footnotes for Americans, tunnelling Tibetans, witches, witch-finders, whales, Hell's Angels, Queen and Freddie Mercury, junk food made of junk, nuclear power, a flaming car, satanic nuns, an inadvertent baby-swap, a book of prophecy, and more besides.
Unpleasant damp smells, glowering looks, erratic opening hours - he was incredibly good at it.”Near where where Pratchett spent much of his life, is a cottage given over to second hand books.
One of my all-time favorite books. Up there with Hitchhiker's Guide.
It all felt forced, like the themes and ideas were shoved into the narrative and that the plot had to adapt to fit them in.
Life is far too short for books I don’t enjoy.
It felt like it was written by two guys who had just finished school and were ready to explode their ideas into some creative project that could be a piece of brilliance or a real chore depending on the reader tastes.
This felt like a shadow of what each writer can do; it holds a mere suggestion of the brilliance and creative spark each would wield at his fingertips.
“DON'T THINK OF IT AS DYING," said Death. "JUST THINK OF IT AS LEAVING EARLY TO AVOID THE RUSH.”  The Apocalypse is not off to a good start.Ten years ago, Crowley (a demon) brought the  infant Anti-Christ to a group of Satanic Nuns who swapped the Anti-Christ with a human child. For ten years, Aziraphale (an Angel) and Crowley educate the child on the finer points of good and evil.   “People couldn't become truly holy," he said, "unless they also had the opportunity to be definitively wicked."
The Apocalypse is not off to a good start.Ten years ago, Crowley (a demon) brought the  infant Anti-Christ to a group of Satanic Nuns who swapped the Anti-Christ with a human child.
For ten years, Aziraphale (an Angel) and Crowley educate the child on the finer points of good and evil.
“People couldn't become truly holy," he said, "unless they also had the opportunity to be definitively wicked."
Then, when the Anti-Christ was supposed to come into his full powers, Crowley and Aziraphale realize that they didn't have the right child.Furthermore, they simultaneously realize that they rather like Earth.
[And again in the deep voice] Yes, this’n is me.Neville: This is just like in that old book by Terry Pratchett and Neil Gaiman, Good Omens, I mean JUST like it!Madam Tracey: [In the Geronimo voice] How you mean?Ron: I read that book, you’re right; there is a spiritual medium who pretends to be led into the spirit world by Geronimo!Madam Tracey: Eh, gentlemen, please, you must concentrate … Um, hey, wait a minute; I really am feeling a presence!Freddy Mercury: [singing] Can anybody find me, somebody to love?Neville: What??
*** 4.75 *** "... “God does not play dice with the universe; He plays an ineffable game of His own devising, which might be compared, from the perspective of any of the other players [i.e. everybody], to being involved in an obscure and complex variant of poker in a pitch-dark room, with blank cards, for infinite stakes, with a Dealer who won't tell you the rules, and who smiles all the time.” ..." Loved every second of it! A book about free choice and nature vs nurture, some good old pondering
A book about free choice and nature vs nurture, some good old pondering over what is good and what is evil, commentary on our values and all together sorry state of our perceptions, all bundled up in the beautifully hilarious and stingingly clever prose of the authors, who only cement there places as some of the best of our contemporaries.
I would be the first one to recommend his work, but I will also be the one to warn you to space his works good time apart in order to truly savor his wisdom and turn of phrase.
I actually feel a little bad giving this 2 stars, since I see so many reviews of people who loved this book.
It skips over about 10 years in a few chapters, and then camps out at 6 hours 'til doomsday for hundreds of pages.
I began skimming pages before giving up altogether on it a few chapters from the end.
I would say it's not my style of book, but that's not true: again, I like Pratchett's other works, and I'm a Douglas Adams fan as well.
That description doesn't really do the story justice, but that film definitely hits me in the same place as the book.
This book is funny, irreverent, and at times surprisingly insightful.
The characters, like any melodrama, are intended to be archetypal, so even the relatively predictable changes that occur seem appropriate in the context of the story.
To give you an example, the devil Crowly drives a car in which the tape-deck will transform any tape placed in it into a copy of "Queen's Greatest Hits" within a very short period of time after one hits the play button.
The 5 star rating stands!Original review 2009Good Omens is going to have to go down as one of my favorites!
Personally, I thought it was a great "coming of age" story about a boy named Adam Young.
Just put it down and grab something by C.S. Lewis.The story centers around an angel and a demon who have spent thousands of years on earth together, and have quite a good working relationship.
Once the deed is done, Crowley decides to enlist Aziraphale (the angel) to help him stop the coming apocalypse.
They have eleven years before the boy reaches his "full potential"...
While this could have been remedied by Pratchett's collaboration, his humor tends to be more groan-worthy than profound.It seemed to me that, by collaborating, both authors felt a need to simplify and de-personalize their respective styles, which for Gaiman meant an unfortunate loss of much of his dark charm, and for Pratchett that he was even more watered down than usual.I know a lot of people, especially fantasy fans, love this book, and I will admit that it is romp-y, easily digestible, and certainly doesn't betray the inclinations of either author.
I can't for the life of me understand the good reviews that this book has received.
Though I found Crowley an extremely enjoyable character, I could not bring myself to finish this book.
All of these characters thrown in and abrupt switches of storyline annoyed me and made me refuse to finish it.
This book tries way too hard to be "wacky".
Speaking of which, there is no naturalness to the pivotal character, "the anti-christ".
They write "Adam" and his three friends extremely poorly.
I would not recommend this book.
A great story that moves along very nicely, as Good and Evil (as represented by the angel Aziraphale & the demon Crowley) join forces to try & avert the apocalypse.
Another highlight was the 4 horsemen of the Apocalypse; Death, War, Famine & Pollution (yes pollution...I know, it’s supposed to be Pestilence - read the book:)) who make their appearance as Hell’s Angels.
Actually the book is loaded with great characters, there's even a cute little dog, The Hound from Hell morphed into a cat chasing mongrel.
You might find yourself contemplating some pretty deep stuff, like "the big ineffable plan"  or the murky line defining mankind as basicly good or evil.
I find if very difficult not to like a book about how plans for Armageddon hit a snag when a scatterbrained Satanic nun misplaces the Antichrist. Many of the reviews of Good Omens compare it to Douglas Adams. There are some similarities in that much of the story occurs outside the bounds of normal reality, it's genuinely funny, and very British. But I found the overall tone to be softer, less snarky, and more intentionally philosophical in nature. While the book is very entertaining, it also asks some exceedingly interesting questions. In particular: does the Antichrist have free will?
Sin lugar a dudas es un libro muy divertido; me lo he pasado muy bien con "el bien y el mal" y sus meteduras de pata jajaja...
Rating: the least annoyed three stars I can muster out of fiveThe Publisher Says: According to The Nice and Accurate Prophecies of Agnes Nutter, Witch (the world's only completely accurate book of prophecies, written in 1655, before she exploded), the world will end on a Saturday.
I loved it as street theater, and bought the book because I liked their energetic promotion of it.I chuckled several times, laughed out loud once, and put the book away from 1990 until it was lost in the move in 2008, and never once in 18 years remembered that I owned it or had read it.
This novel spoof of THE OMEN is absolutely hilarious. From the four bikers of the apocalypse to adorable hell hounds, it's my absolute favorite offering from Terry Pratchett -- his humor mixed with Neil Gaiman's is absolute win in my opinion. ***wondering why all my reviews are five stars? Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read. Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement. I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.****
The angel Aziraphale and the demon Crowley are each tasked with finding the Antichrist as a baby and swaying him over to their respective sides; heaven or hell.
The characters - Aziraphale, Crowley, Anathema, Newt, Shadwell, the Them - were all understandable, real (despite the fact some on that list aren't human), and just the right amount of ridiculous.Shadwell was especially funny.
Their characters are so similar!Some quotes in particular stood out as very "Supernatural"-Crowley-like: "Crowley had dark hair and good cheekbones and wore snakeskin shoes"or"Crowley had always known that he would be around when the world ended, because he was immortal and wouldn't have any alternative.
So that's okay.So we have the stars: Crowley and Aziraphale.
I love them so much.They're totally Cas and Crowley from Supernatural.
Many people, meeting Aziraphale for the first time, formed three impressions: that he was English, that he was intelligent, and that he was gayer than a treeful of monkeys on nitrous oxide.Crowley isn't the king of hell though, like in the TV series.
I loved his hellhound that turned into a little tiny dog because it's master unknowingly requested it.
Not very amusing attempt at biblical humor. It was a chore. I did not finish it, getting through 130 pages before casting it aside. It read to me like it had been written by two snarky twenty-year-olds.
Εντάξει, αυτό το βιβλίο μπορεί να μην είναι η γρήγορη περιπέτεια, με την έντονη δράση, αλλά είναι η πιο κεφάτη και αστεία εκδοχή για τον Αρμαγεδδώνα, που μπορεί να δει ή να διαβάσει άνθρωπος!Αυτή η ζωηρή, τσαχπίνικη, καυστική και φλύαρη αφήγηση που κάνει «μπαμ» ότι έχει βάλει το χεράκι του ο αείμνηστος Pratchett, θα μου μείνει αξέχαστη.«Πρέπει να το παραδεχτείς πάντως, ήταν λίγο φάρσα το πράγμα», είπε ο Κρώλυ.
Δεν είναι και τόσο διακριτικό, έτσι; Δηλαδή, γιατί δεν το βάζεις στην κορυφή ενός ψηλού βουνού, ή κάπου πολύ μακριά; Σε κάνει ν’ αναρωτιέσαι τι σχέδιο έχει στο μυαλό Του.»Quote by Κρόουλυ (Άγγελος που δεν Εξέπεσε ακριβώς, αλλά μάλλον Σεργιάνισε προς τα Κάτω) ήρωας του βιβλίου, σελ.
“It has been said that civilization is twenty-four hours and two meals away from barbarism.”  This was quirky and a little on the odd side but totally fun. Heaven and Hell have basically been in a cold war for well forever it seems. Ever since Lucifer  “An Angel who did not so much Fall as Saunter Vaguely Downwards.”  became the bad guy the final show down has been in the works. But now, finally Satan’s son has been born and the prophecies all say that when he is Eleven the end of the world wi
became the bad guy the final show down has been in the works.
The humor in this is really incredibly fun and I loved Aziraphale, the Angel who wasn’t necessarily all good, and Crowley the demon who really wasn’t that bad of a guy.
“Hell wasn't a major reservoir of evil, any more then Heaven, in Crowley's opinion, was a fountain of goodness; they were just sides in the great cosmic chess game.
I think it will be a good time and lets face it at the end of the world you might as well have a good time.Perfect for when you just want a good laugh and some ridiculousness in your life.
God.This was one of the funniest books I have ever read.
The writing was phenomenal and I could see myself and others I know in many of the quirky characters.Good and Evil's earthly representatives discover that the time for the Apocalyse has arrived and they're not too happy about it.
By the way, he ended up, after an unfortunate accident, calling himself People Covered in Fish.I was a little disappointed with the ending, though.
It seemed a little too neat and easy.
So that's why it didn't get that fifth star from me.Great book!
Και σίγουρα δεν θα απογοητεύονταν!!!Καταρχήν από το οπισθόφυλλο φαίνεται ότι τα πράγματα δεν πάνε πολύ καλά για το σχέδιο του Αρμαγεδώνα: Ο δαίμονας και ο άγγελος που είναι υπεύθυνοι στη Γη δεν φαίνονται να νοιάζονται και πολύ...
τελοσπάντων, κάτι δεν πάει όσο καλά θα έπρεπε.Κατά τα άλλα οι συγγραφείς δεν αφήνουν τίποτα όρθιο σε ολόκληρο το σύστημα και ειρωνεύονται τους πάντες και τα πάντα, είτε άμεσα, είτε έμμεσα.
Το τέλος αναμενόμενο για όσους ξέρουν τις απόψεις των συγγραφέων από άλλα τους βιβλία.Πρόσφατα έμαθα ότι γυρίζεται σε σειρά με David Tennant - Michael Sheen!!!
do yourself a favor and don't read this book 'cause you might end up really, really hating it.Now off to the real review.I can positively say that (at least in my opinion) this is one of the best books ever written (okay, maybe I'm being a little subjective).I feel like when reading Gaiman's books, there is always a positive and a negative thing (at least in my case).
I don't think that there's anything else to say, except that if you haven't read this book but you like either Gaiman or Pratchett, do yourself a favor and go read it.
It's really funny.""Cool," he said.A bit later I was busy making myself motion sick by spinning in my chair (because I am totally a grownup) and when I got bored, I asked him, "So how'd you wind up here?""Oh, [company we work for] recruits heavily from my school.""Where's that?""Brigham Young University."I had a sudden revelation re my chances of getting a date burst across the inside of my frontal lobes, but I still needed to come up with something intelligent to say to this.
