https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95887.Eat_That_Frog_
Don't worry about under-delivering; it's the reader's responsibility to change, yours is to get them all psyched up about needing that change.Step number three: Come up with chapter titles, and dig for random quotes to use at the beginning of each chapter.Step number four: Write small paragraphs of supposedly motivating and inspiring bunkum.
S.N.A.C.K. stands for Stare Nonchalantly At Cute Kid. Learn to identify people with the S.N.A.C.K. behavior, and you got yourself a certificate, delivered personally from me, on how to spot pedophiles.Step number eight: Tell people what to do.
I finished this book a couple of days ago..........and I wanted to put a review in right away to get it in at the top of the week, but there was the Super bowl, then Monday I had to make dog food (you did read that correctly), last night Justified was on.....and that needs your full attention.
I draw people for a living (from life), so when the author wrote about picking out the most difficult thing you would all day to do first, I imagined picking out the screaming two year old from the crowd first, followed by the stumbleing drunk......ect.So, I do plan to eat some frogs right after I beat a few people on Words With Friends.
I read this book and I think its not bad. It is full of useful tools and tips to get you to stop procrastinating. But there are better books out there. The best book I've read on this topic is the Procrastination Elimination Method by John Isaac. It's not really famous.. its like a hidden gem. It addresses the core experiences and perceptions that cause procrastination to begin with.I give 3 stars to Eat That Frog because the author seems to have put in a lot of effort.
It's a good reminder to concentrate on the most important task instead of getting mired down in the smaller, unimportant ones.The author gives 21 steps to getting things done:01.
Prioritize those and concentrate on the most important ones.02.
Select the key times of the day when you are most productive and work on your tasks at those times.15.
You're not going to be able to get everything done so put off the less important tasks.17.
Do the most difficult task first (eat that frog).18.
Create large blocks of time to get your work done.20.
Write down your goals, set deadlines, list steps to achieve goals, organize steps into a plan by priority and sequence, do something every day on your highest-impact goal.Do now: list 10 goals.
Pick your highest-impact goal, set a deadline, make a plan, take action.2.
Work on the 20% of the tasks that contribute to high value results first.
What do you do that positively affects the work and performance of other people more than anything else?Do now: focus your plans so that you're doing the things you're best at.13.
Back to work!"Do now: When you are given a task or responsibility, take care of it quickly and report back fast.21.
“لاتفرحوا يا بناتي وأبنائي بقراءة الكتب السهلة؛ لأن المرء حين يقرأ لا يفهم إلا ما يعرف، فإذا فهمتم ما تقرأونه فهذا يعني أنكم تعرفونه ويكون دور الكتاب هو التذكير ليس أكثر” يُذكرني عنوان الكتاب بالمقولة السابقة لـ دكتور عبد الكريم بكار :والعنوان أيضًا "ابدأ بالأهم ولو كان صعبًا" هو أفصح ما في الكتاب؛وما احتواه من أفكار تدور حوله؛وكلها تحاول اقناعنا بـالتركيز على الأهم؛ فـ حياتنا محدودة، وهي أقصر من أن نبعثرها بين الأهم وذاك غيرالجدير بأولوية أوقاتنا،ثمّ البدء فورًا بـ تنفيذ ما قررنا أهميته،وبالطبع نؤديه بـ اتقان.

at least, that's the theory.At first, I thought all of the ideas in this book sounded almost too simple.
But as the short audiobook continued, it became more clear just why Tracy is considered one of the leaders in his field of expertise.Taken altogether, this book gives someone the tools to turn their life around (if they're in a bad place) or take them to the next level, if they're already on their way.
It's not just about learning tools to boost your efficiency, it's also about discovering what you do best and then prioritizing doing THAT to the best of your ability.The most intriguing idea in here, to me, was "practice creative procrastination".
This book may be better for doers than thinkers.
I'm a right-brain thinker, so I probably should have just tattooed the saying on the back of my hand.
I've just started reading "The Now Habit: A Strategic Program for Overcoming Procrastination and Enjoying Guilt-Free Play" by Neil Fiore, and it's a better fit for me.
"Eat That Frog" is excellent, but it didn't sufficiently address the reasoning behind my not getting stuff done.
Yeah, so I'm just doing a little self-analysis on myself, and once that's done I'll be perfect, and I'll probably reread this book on occasion just to keep me on track.
You are literally swamped with work and personal responsibilities, projects, stacks of magazines to read....But the fact is you are never going to caught up.
I have an audio copy and I still listen to it every once on a while, whenever I feel I'm getting behind on some tasks, or whenever I stop practicing some of it's methods.
This books helped me a lot and it still helping me all the time.
From the ABCD method, the creative procrastination, developing plans, considering the consequences, and much more.This is my all time reference for better future, since I first read it.
I wish I was told about this book early in time.
Needed some extra motivation on getting tasks done recently and 'Eat That Frog' definitely helps with re-prioritizing things on the task list and making a plan to get them done.
20% of my activities are 80% of my results - and these are the tasks we usually procrastinate the most on.
Prioritize the task list, start with the most important.
Focus on my key result areas.
Always do the most important things first.
Figure out my high points of energy in the day and schedule my most demanding tasks then.
Do the most difficult task (frog) first thing in the mroning.
برای من 20 درصد اول کتاب بهترین قسمتش بود به نظرم بقیه کتاب جنبه ی تکرار داشت . البته جزو کتاب هایی که خوب ادم بعضی وقتها یه چند ورقی ازش بخونه واسه دوباره انرژی گرفتن

همه چیزایی که بقیّه میگن رو، اینجا در موجزترین و مفیدترین حالت اورده. دستش درد نکنه. :دی
همه چیزایی که بقیّه می‌گن رو، این‌جا در موجزترین و مفیدترین حالت اورده. دستش درد نکنه. :دی
Brian Tracey puts together a book full of useful ideas on how to be more productive.His chapter summaries on p113 are a good resource to review.1.
Plan the day in advance: Think on paper3.
Focus on key result areas: concentrate on results you HAVE to have8.
Prepare thoroughly before you begin: get set up to get things done10.
Leverage your special talents:do things are good at wholeheartedly13.
Maximize your personal power: work hard at your best times of day 16.
Create large chunks of time: to focus on certain things20.
Develop sense of urgency: move fast on key tasks21.
کتاب خوبی است برای کسانی که کتاب را فقط نمی خوانند، بلکه گام به گام نوشته ها را در زندگی محک می زنند.
چکیده من از کل کتاب :میزتان را مرتب کنیدبرای هر روزتان از روز قبل با نوشتن یک لیست، برنامه ریزی کنید اولویت و زمانبندی کنید و مهمترین کارها را اول انجام دهیدخودتان را تحت فشار قرار دهیدبه جای فکر کردن ، عمل کنید
قرابة المئة صفحة فقط .. إلا أنها تملأ الذهن بالوسائل الأهم للإنجازيركز المؤلف على أدق نقاط الضعف التي تجعل من الشخص مسوّفاًوأدق نقاط القوة التي تجعل منه منجزاً..أعجبتني الكثير من الاقتباسات التي أنوي الرجوع إليهاإلى جانب الرجوع إلى قراءته كاملاً مرة أخرى.....................ملاحظتي الوحيدة هي التكرار في طرح بعض الوسائلرغم انها كانت تكرر بطريقة جديدة في كل مرة، ممايعمّق فهم القارئ،إلا أنه كان بالإمكان جمعها في نقطة واحدة.....................سيرة المؤلف رائعة ، ومادفعني إلى اقتناء الكتاب هو استماعي لمحاضراتهوإعجابي الشديد بثراء طرحه، وازددت إعجاباً عندما قرأت سيرته الذاتية
بدترين رَآه استفاده از وقت اين است كه كارى را انجام دهى كه نياز به انجام دادنش نباشد...
Great book for anyone trying to tackle their personal obstacle that's keeping them from moving faster towards their goals, whatever those goals may be.
The book is based on the saying by Mark Twain that if the first thing you do each morning is to eat a live frog, you can go through the day with teh satisfaction of knowing that that is probably the wost thing that is going to happen to you all day long.
The book contains lessons on prioritizing, how spending a couple of minutes outlining and prioritizing what you need and want to get done will let you get double done that day.
Updated review 31 March 2016:If you follow the 21 rules, your life will be as productive as u wish.Though, I followed some of the 21 rules for a short time then I went back to my old Procrastination, maybe they have to be 'revised' from time to time ;)
Having just re-read the exceptional Getting Things Done: The Art of Stress-Free Productivity, by David Allen, this book felt poorly-written, poorly-organized, and poorly conceived.
Those are the ones you are most likely to procrastinate on, because they are the things that have the most weight to them, but they are not necessarily any more time-consuming than the rest of the tasks you have to do which will have less of a positive impact on your life.
But even that's not as good as Getting Things Done: The Art of Stress-Free Productivity.
اوایل کتاب همون حرفای همیشگیه برایان تریسی راجب هدف گزاری و داشتن تصویر ذهنی و قانون ٢٠/٨٠ و این چیزا هستش و بعد میره سراغ برنامه ریزی و مدیریت زمان.كلا دست و دلم نميره به كتاباى جناب تريسى بيشتر از ٣-٣.٥ ستاره بدم چون تكرار مكررات تو همه ى كتاباش هست و اين موضوع آزار دهندس.روش برنامه ریزیش هم خوبه اما من روش GTD از دیوید آلن رو ترجیح میدم.از هردوش برای مدت نسبتا طولانی استفاده کردم و به نظرم روش دیوید آلن کاربردی تره.
Wist alles al en had dit boek zelf kunnen schrijven; het zijn echt mega goede tips om productiever te zijn. Absoluut een aanrader. Vind alleen de herhaaldelijke tip dat iedereen alles kan leren onwaar, verder is alles in dit boek wél waar.
This book is talking mainly about being great on your job, but you can take it for other things as well.Tracy is teaching us 21 steps that (combined in a way or another) can help us manage the time we have, how to stop wasting it away and start right away with the things that actually help us in life.
I want to reread it and study it more.Tracy teaches us about the ABCDE method, about how to take big things step by step, how to cut the quest in slices and many other great advice.It is called "Eat the Frog" because when you have a big issue to solve and you feel like not doing it, it's like a big frog in front of you.As a conclusion, take a notebook, a pen/pencil/marker/whatever, this book and go study it.
You will often see me post online that today I have to "eat a few frogs". This is now a way of life for me! I think Brian Tracy is a genius!
کتاب خوبی بود. نمی شه گفت حرفهاش تازه بود ، در واقع بیشترش چیزهایی بود که خودم زمانی بدون اینکه آگاه باشم بهشون عمل می کردم ولی فراموششون کرده بودم. یادآوری کننده خوبی بود. به خصوص که نظم و شیوه بیان هم مناسب و موجز بودبه نظرم خوندنش ضرر نداره و می تونه به آدم کمک کنه
أذكره يقول إنه تخيل لما تصحى الصباح وكأن عندك مجموعة ضفادع لازم تآكلها ، يقولك دائماً شوف أكبر ضفدع وإلتهمه !
لإنه دائماً أصعب مهمة هي اللي بتعطلنا وبسببها ما نسوي ولا شيء بس نأجل في المهام والسبب هو الشيء الصعب واللي مثله بالضفدعه الكبيرة لما تنتهي من إلتهام أقبح وأصعب مهمة راح تشوف باقي المهام تافهة وبسيطة والأهم إنه إنجازك ذاك بيكون دافع كبير إنك تكمل باقي المهام بحماس وبسرعةالكتاب يستحق القراءة وتجربة بعض أساليبه وربما يكون أكثر كتاب عملي يتحدث عن إدارة الوقت بفاعليةقراءة ممتعة
U principu ne čitam ovakvu vrstu knjiga. Nekako sam mišljenja da su one više orjentisane na zapadni svijet. Međutim, savjeti nisu loši ukoliko se čovjek natjera da živi po njima. Doduše, ne mogu se svi primjeniti na našim prostorima. Npr. savjet "razgovarajte sa Vašim šefom o Vašim konkretnim zaduženjima". Ko god je radio u privatnom sektoru shvatiće apsurd ove rečenice. :)
چرت و پرت و یه مشت اراجیف فقط واسه فروش و سود چاپ میشن
