https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125009.Faces_in_the_Water
I used to think that knowing an author's background was unnecessary, but after I now realize how much of an author is put into even the fictional books they write.
Knowing the background of this author in particular made this an even more heartbreaking read than the subject itself garnered.
A powerful, and absorbing read, semi autobiographical novel.
4.5/5The author of this book was saved from a lobotomy by her first book winning a prestigious literary prize.Now, tell me, what do you say to that?
Or perhaps the 'prestigious literary prize' in conjunction with both, for what does that say about the prize, the judges, fiction entire when writing literally saved a person's existence from systematic excision?Those who say space is the last frontier haven't considered the contours of their skull in a biosociocultural context for nearly long enough.What are your verbs?
The "You've been in places like this before" made me so mad because how is she going to get past the fear and the shame to get better to live for herself if their criteria for "better" is some bull shit arbitrary rules like hopping to fast enough when some bitch ass nurse wants her floors scrubbed promptly enough?
Istina sees that the patients fill the hospital like that Bruce Lee water analogy.
I think it would be admitting something like that that would have landed me in Treecroft in a bed across from Istina's own.
While this is "fiction," the author herself spent time in mental institutions in the same time frame as her main character in Faces in the Water. I have her three-volume autobiography on the shelf, so hopefully I will have more insight soon. "I did not know my own identity. I was burgled of body and hung in the sky like a woman of straw." This book is impossible to put down. The writing is poetic, graphic and nightmarish all at once, with detailed descriptions of mental institutions where people
The writing is poetic, graphic and nightmarish all at once, with detailed descriptions of mental institutions where people are managed but not treated as very human, during a time where electric shock therapy and insulin shock therapy were standard forms of control, and lobotomies were used for patients who resisted shock therapy.
At times Janet Frame writes beautifully about New Zealand - the disparity in landscape between the north and south, and how about these disturbing metaphors while describing spring from the point of view of the "insane": -summer is impatient to striptease the sky-purple flowers like intimate folds of bruised flesh-slate-cold sea with its scratches-people danced with good reasonAt one point, Janet Frame describes this protagonist as noticing too much, of seeing too many details, and the world not knowing what to do with that.
Janet Frame is clearly a writer who closely follows the advice of Mark Twain -- "write what you know." And what she intimately knows is the mental splitting from reality, electroshock treatments, psychiatric institutions and those who fill them.
There are many floating alone on ice drifts and what this book accomplishes exceedingly well is the personalizing and clear "faces" that Frame attaches to her characters that stops them from being so foreign and instead humanizes these frail lives.
Cosa può desiderare un malato di mente, un pazzo? Essere come gli altri? Allentare la tensione della propria condizione? Non doversi rifugiare nell'angolo più remoto dentro di sé per non sentire la sofferenza? Forse, ma la cosa che più desidera (la più difficile da ottenere) è che gli si consenta di conservare la propria dignità di persona.
Despite this, Istina is still poignant and to the point - as well as unarguably chilling - when discussing the doctors and nurses who walk the corridors of the hospital: 'Every morning I woke in dread, waiting for the day nurse to go on her rounds and announce from the list of names in her hand whether or not I was for shock treatment, the new and fashionable means of quieting people and of making them realize that orders are to be obeyed and floors are to be polished without anyone protesting and faces are made to be fixed into smiles and weeping is a crime'.As readers, we are immediately aware of the never-ending, and frankly terrifying, cycle of waiting for Electroshock Therapy every day.
How must you live your life?If, like Janet Frame, people have considered you as touched in the head, and had put you in one mental hospital after another for years, and if there were times when you yourself had doubted your own sanity, then you need to look for something where you can find reassurance, something that would validated your existence among normal men. Frame found it in literature. She wrote. And people realised that inside this head, with its uncomely face, the wild uncombable hair, the bad teeth, are words which put on paper shine with rare exceptional beauty.
Though "Faces in the Water" takes place in 1950s New Zealand, I was struck by the overpowering sense that it could just as easily have taken place in the present-day U.S. Yes, some of the technical details of psychiatric management protocols have changed since the 1950s (e.g., lobotomies are rarely performed anymore), but the social dynamic among psychiatric patients, nurses, and doctors that Frame describes here is unsettlingly similar to that which I myself observed when I was a medical student not long ago.Frame is even more stylistically virtuosic and more compassionate in her perceptions of others than either Sylvia Plath in "The Bell Jar" or Joanne Greenberg in "I Never Promised You a Rose Garden." (Like Greenberg and unlike Plath, Frame overcame her psychiatric diagnosis and went on to live a happy, productive life.) (Spoilers ahead!) At the beginning of this novel, the narrator, Istina Mavet, is a passive and self-effacing observer of others; as the book progresses, however, the horrors to which Istina is subjected drive her to perform increasingly desperate acts, ranging from a half-baked escape attempt to an attempted suicide.
This theme seems to resonate from the distinction of the 'mental patients' from the rest of us 'people', with Istina slowly being convinced that she is no longer human as her psyche is effectively whittled away by the abrasive environs of the typical psychological ward.The story arc aligns with the increasingly invasive treatments Istina is receiving.
I didn't cry but I was very intensely moved.To me, this hands-down tops all of your classic mental ward stories because it is so much more personal and exposes all the psychological harm directly resulting from the nature of the 'help' that patients have historically (and still sometimes to this day) receive: it beats The Bell Jar, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Girl Interrupted...
Language and imagery mercury fluid so as to immerse the reader into the compelling experience of Istina Mavet- incarcerated in a mental institution in New Zealand in the 1950’s for 8 years (as had the author Janet Frame).
Frame describes the context of the few reading texts vailable to patients as “in spite of the gradual adoption of the ‘new’ attitude, the idea still prevailed that mental illness was a form of childish naughtiness which might be cured in a Victorian environment with the persuasion of ster speech and edifying literature.”Faces in the Water seems to lie so closely to Frame’s own experiences of being incarcerated in Seacliffe Hospital for 8 years in New Zealand 1950’s after a misdiagnosis of Schizophrenia.
And yet a particular pacing of harrowing experiences, reflections, and observations pushes the narrative forward in what feels like a real rather than structured, paced, or artificially constructed artistic play-world.
It's easy, then, to say, that Frame is merely writing from her actual experiences and that the novel is great because she had a particularly harrowing life experience and then just wrote about it honestly and yet, as a writer, I know that that's impossible.
A wholly invented plot, constructed already around the necessities of an artistic form are far easier to pace--and yet, this novel had no classic, time tested and true narrative arc.
e se... “...la corsia sette non fosse stata che una condizione subacquea della mente che imprimeva alle sagome temibili che vi erano immerse una ritmica distorsione di pace? E se, al mio alzarmi dal letto, la prospettiva fosse cambiata improvvisamente, oppure fossi stata attirata in una trappola dove un incendio divampando fra le pareti avesse consumato l'acqua e distrutto la pace esponendo alla cruda luce del sole le sagome sommerse in tutto il loro orrore? Come potevo saperlo?“ Mrs. Istina Mavet-Janet Frame
One of the most haunting books I have read. Janet Frame's language is so incredibly sharp, original and lucid that language itself becomes her clearest tool to hit back at a system that had her labelled mad. I am humbled by this book, her keen powers of observation and finding ways to express the inexpressible pain of being dumped, labelled, having all freedom stripped away. It is a deeply moving and human book , with many near heart stopping sentences, both for the content and her language.

Faces in the Water is a fictionalized account of the eight years that Janet Frame spent institutionalized after being diagnosed with schizophrenia.
Janet Frame successfully draws us into Istina’s mind so that her point of view becomes the reader’s, and her reactions (though pathologized by the book’s other characters) seem the only rational ones in a hysterical and threatening world.
Where Plath’s Esther felt as if she were enclosed in a bell jar, Frame's Istina expresses such complete isolation and withdrawal that she seems to be submerged in water, watching the refracted world from below.
Quite a depressing look at mental hospitals in the days when lobotomy and insulin shock therapy were in vogue.
molti che sono primi saranno ultimi e molti che sono ultimi saranno i primi " [ Mt 19,3-30 ]ma cosa si puo' mai scrivere se non questa citazione dopo aver letto un'opera del genere??Perchè ognuno di quei volti ricordati dalla Frame ha avuto quel destino di vita? Lo saprà Dio perchè, di fronte a tanto dolore e devastazione niente viene come risposta.....piccola perla preziosa questo libro
In the inpatient world of New York in the 1990s, most treatment for severe mental illnesses such as major depression, bipoloar disorder, and schizophrenia was delivered via short (a few days to a few weeks) inpatient stays featuring medication, group therapy and brief individual or family sessions followed by regular outpatient care in the form of ongoing medication and weekly psychotherapy and group sessions.
Istina Mavet, the narrator, is a young woman living in first one, then another, then the first, mental hospital in New Zealand.
But the reader feels for her--her own confusion about what she has done wrong and why she has to stay, why she is moved from ward to ward (leaving the reader confused too), why anyone is there (other than the woman who murdered her baby decades earlier—she would most likely be there for postpartum psychosis, still), her anxiety and fear caused by EST and the threat of another treatment.
Frame spent some time in NZ mental hospital(s), so had a unique perspective when writing this book.
Faces in the Water is amazing, so good I woke up early this morning to finish it.
The writing is just fantastic, I got chills.
Heartbreaking too.
Frame takes care to state at the start of the book that this is a work of fiction, yet it has so many parallels with the second volume of her autobiography, An Angel at my Table, that I can't help but think of it as semi-autobiographical.
It makes my heart hurt to think that anyone would be lobotomised, let alone one of our greatest authors.
Thank goodness Frame was saved.
Genel olarak soyleyebilecegim degisik bir kitap olmasi, kesinlikle okudugunuz baska kitaplarsan com farkli. Kendisi senelerce akil hastanesinde kalmis yazar "kurgu" olarak yazdigini soyledigi bu kitapta bir hastaneden digerine, bir kogustan digerine suruklenen bir yasami sunuyor kitabinda. Belki kitabin cevirisinden, veya belki de kitabin kendisinden, 3 yildiz bana uygun bir degerlendirme gorundu butun orjinalligine ragmen. Gene de okumaya deger bir kitap....
From the very first page I was in awe of Janet Frame's writing style...I kept saying: "Wow, this is fantastic!"...who would' a thought that a book about a woman's painful experience spent in an insane asylum would be so beautiful? I savored every page, and found it hard to put down. So what did I do as soon as I finished it...I re-read chapter 1! Yup, I'll definitely read it again!
Den här boken är klok och galen på samma gång. Kan faktiskt inte minnas att jag läst ett vackrare och mer fascinerande språk. Tack gode gud för att de inte lobotomerade dig! Janet in my <3 att du inte fick nobelpriset är fan bedrövligt!
Hon skriver underbart vackert, trots ett ämne som inte bara upprör utan skakar om en. Fantastisk läsupplevelse.
New Zealand writer Janet Frame spent years being admitted to psychiatric hospitals where she was treated with ECT and insulin.
While she was still a patient in hospital, Janet Frame’s first collection of short stories was published, and won a prestigious award.
While in London Frame was diagnosed with Schizophrenia and her psychiatrist encouraged her to keep writing.Faces in the Water, the second of Frame’s novels, takes us to the world of New Zealand’s psychiatric wards.
This heavily autobiographical novel has difficult themes, telling the painful stories of women like Frame.
Frame manages to build the tension never letting the reader off the hook, it’s as if we are bearing witness to her lived experience and there were times I wanted to stop reading because it was just so relentless: the daily life of the patient just lurched from bad to worse through no fault of her own.
She manages to write of all this so beautifully, her words poetic and hypnotic would not let me stop reading and in the end I felt like I had indeed been made to bear witness and in acknowledging the wrongs done to these women restore to them possibly the dignity of which they’d been robbed while locked up there in the NZ mental hospitals of the 1950s.
Akıl hastanesi, hapishane, mahkeme, suçlar, hastalıklar vs vs bu gibi konulara ilgim olduğu için kitabı oldukça beğendim. Ayrı ayrı hastaları ve hasta bakıcıları, hastanelerde dönen iktidar savaşları çok güzel anlatılmış. Ayrıca bir akıl hastasının duygu durumları ve hissettiklerine şahit olmak da baya sarsıcı. (Kurgu olsa bile) Yarı kurgu?Edit: Angel at My Table adlı filmi izledim. Janet Frame’in hayatını anlatıyor. Gerçekten akıl hastanesinde bulunmuş. Susanna Kaysen tarafından yazılmış olan Girl, Interrupted’ın filmini izlemiş ve çok sevmiştim. Sanırım onun kitabını da listeye eklemem gerek :)
This is a very intense, train of thought, account of life in a mental hospital during the 1940-50's.The book is beautifully written but it can be hard to follow. I also found myself doubting the narrator, especially towards the end.I found it more meaningful than the Bell Jar. There are similarities but it doesn't cover life before or after institutionalism, only the demeaning life within and the pervading fear of the place.I'd definitely recommend reading it.
