https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3400816-plum-spooky
Book Review  3 of 5 stars to Plum Spooky written in 2009 by Janet Evanovich. This book is the 4th "mini-release" in the Stephanie Plum cozy mystery series, an in between read set of books based on different holidays throughout the year, involving Stephanie and the mysterious Diesel, a character from another one of Evanovich's series starring Diesel and Lizzy.It's a great idea to combine two series with fan favorite characters, but Stephanie already had 2 men chasing after her (or is she chasin
This book is the 4th "mini-release" in the Stephanie Plum cozy mystery series, an in between read set of books based on different holidays throughout the year, involving Stephanie and the mysterious Diesel, a character from another one of Evanovich's series starring Diesel and Lizzy.It's a great idea to combine two series with fan favorite characters, but Stephanie already had 2 men chasing after her (or is she chasing them), as well as her mother's blind date fix-ups...
It's fun drama, cute romance and a good time.I enjoy them, but they're a quick / less than 2 hour read, and often the mystery isn't very big or complex.
I didn't, but only because I am trying to read different authors...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
More fun than a barrel of monkeys!! No, really, there were a hella lot of monkeys in this book.No, Mr. Monkey, I'm serious. You would love it!As is always the case in these half-books of the series, Diesel shows up in Stephanie's apartment. And, somehow whenever Diesel is around Morelli is only available by phone.  "How's it going?" Morelli wanted to know."It's average. Stole a truck. Blew up a house. Brought seven monkeys home with me. And now I have a naked man in my shower.""Yeah, same ol', s
You would love it!As is always the case in these half-books of the series, Diesel shows up in Stephanie's apartment.
And, somehow whenever Diesel is around Morelli is only available by phone.
"How's it going?" Morelli wanted to know."It's average.
Brought seven monkeys home with me.
And now I have a naked man in my shower.""Yeah, same ol', same ol'," Morelli said.
Morelli's pretty jaded at this point.
Ranger got out of the SUV, walked over to me, and looked in the Jeep."Babe," he said.I blew out a sigh.
I had five monkeys in the Jeep and two sitting on the roof....
And Evanovich is losing her grip on her characters I think.
I don't know, it's just gotten a bit old.The one good thing I found from Fearless 14, which was the possibility of at least one relationship of these series getting resolved (Lula and Tanks), is now not going to happen.
While I've loved the stories, and was glad that they continued, I think there's a time to tie up lose ends while the stories are still good.
It's aggravating to realize that Janet will continue to write this series into the ground because of some idea that her fans wouldn't like her to allow growth, answers etc.
I'm a BIG fan of Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series.
Not a big fan of the between-the-numbers/holiday novels.
EVER.If you are not familiar with the series, Stephanie Plum works as a bounty hunter in Trenton, New Jersey, for her sleazy cousin Vinnie.
Uber bounty hunter, Diesel, pops back into Stephanie's life (like birthday cake!) as he in on the hunt for Wulf Grimoire (who just so happens to be working with Munch in his quest for world domination).
My favorite part of this book: When Stephanie was kidnapped by Wulf to be used as Munch's sex slave.
Love these books! Easter bunny, Sasquatch, New Jersey devil, and more. The Fire Farter was truly imaginative. Next we're off to Salem for wicked stuff.Read again June 2016. Still love it!Ok, I've decided this book must be added to my yearly Halloween fair along with "It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown," and "Hocus Pocus."Reread May 2018 So much fun! Lula falling in the bog was one of the funniest scenes I’ve ever read! Add to that Carl the monkey and Tank with cats. 🤣💕
"Plum Spooky" is Janet Evanovich's latest hilarious trek through the life of confused, inept, and somehow lucky despite all that, bounty hunter Stephanie Plum.
Diesel is back, as are Ranger and Morelli, along with Lula, more monkeys that I could count, and a host of other interesting characters!Stephanie is after what should be a fairly easy recovery.
Of course, once Stephanie goes after anybody, it's never easy and Munch has apparently managed to hook up with a seriously dangerous dude.
So now Stephanie has to deal with Diesel while trying to track Munch.
While this is a pretty decent story I think she is really pushing the "out there" qualities of the characters. I could totally go with Stephanie, Lula and Grandma, but monkeys, global weather control and characters with powers are too much.
Another disappointing book!I used to love the Plum books, don't know what happened to JE.
This might very well be my favorite in between the numbers book yet! More Carl, I so wasn't expecting that! So darn funny. Full review to come.
These Stephanie Plum books were SO funny when they first came out, but have become SO repetitive and boring...I honestly think the author writes them during her lunch hour in one sitting...hard to believe it's #1 on the New York Times Bestseller List!!!
Ohhhhhh that was a good book.
You know it's good when you get to the end and you slow down to make it last and then when you see the last words you feel sad because you know it's going to be awhile before you get to read what happens with the characters you are so fond of.
I have to agree with so many other reviewers that this was one of the best between the numbers books in the Stephanie Plum series.
It was absurd and yet you didn't roll your eyes.
I think I missed a few Plum books along the way because I had to do a double take (make that a rewind) when Diesel, a fellow bounty hunter (who is drop dead gorgeous, wouldn’t you know?), drops in and makes himself all cozy in Stephanie’s bed.
I don’t know if I could stomach a steady diet of these Plum books but I do so enjoy reading them every now and then to cleanse my brain of the dreariness I usually subject it to.
I normally love Janet Evanovich/Stephanie Plum books.
I get so excited about her writing that I mark my calendar so I know about pending releases.Which is why I was so bummed about this novel.
I guess I should be grateful...
"Between the Numbers" novels are usually pretty short and this one clocked in at over 300 pages.
But I struggled through the entire book.
Normally the wackiness is fun.
This time it just felt forced.
BTW, a monkey that flips people off might be funny the first time...
by the 30th time it's really grating.I hope this was written by a ghost writer.
Ah yes, its Stephanie Plum, one of the most inept bounty hunters ever, again bumbling her way through a catch that proves to be much larger and more complicated then it should be. Reading the Plum books have always been sort of like enjoying a catchy pop song - you enjoy it for a bit, but once you move onto to something else, you don't think about it much. Sadly, the Plum books are starting to move towards the other problem with pop songs - after a while, they all sound alike, and become indistinguishable from one another.
Well, I usually enjoy the Stephanie Plum books, even these between-the-number chapters, but for some reason this book just didn't 'hit the spot'.
Because: I got tired of the monkey antics, the storyline didn't grab me, found it too easy to put down, and worse, felt obligated to finish it only because I started reading it.
Since the title is Plum Spooky, perhaps I'll pick it up again closer to the Halloween season and will enjoy it more.9/12-Well, I just finished the audio and found I really enjoyed it this time round.
I really love the Plum series, however this book was a big disappointment.
I just did NOT enjoy monkeys as a main character line.
And - even in a supernatural book - to give the monkey such a personality and communication skill was too much.
Plus, the characters seemed off to me.
That ruined his strong character for me.
And although my main man Ranger did have a decent role in this (considering it was a Diesel book), I didn't get the feel of electricity between the two.I'm looking forward to book 15 in hopes that it goes back to the series the way it used to be awesome.
Stephanie is dating Morelli, a Trenton cop, but is "friendly" with Ranger, another Bounty Hunter, who owns his own business Rangeman, and goes after big criminals.In the regular books, there is tension between Ranger and Morelli, but in these "Between the number" novels, Plum has been involved with DIESEL, a charismatic super sleuth who has odd powers that he uses to defend good guys from bad guys.
I liked the Carl parts.One of Plum's bounties is Marvin Munch who has run off with an evil guy named Wulf, a cousin of DIESEL.
One word: HOKEY. I mean, really. Monkeys, superpowers, rockets that create rain, disappearing in fire and smoke, etc. Was I reading "Stephanie Plum Meets Harry Potter"?As usual Lula had me laughing out loud, but that's about as reliable as the storyline got. I ALMOST put it down half way, and would've, had it not been for the Lula humor. Not at all impressed.
If the plot wasn't so weak I would give this three stars. I think it's the best of the "Between the Numbers" books, and better than book # 14, even if I still don't like Diesel as well as Ranger and Morelli. I snickered out loud several times, and that's mostly what I ask of a Plum book.
Ehn...I don't really care for the books in the "Between the Numbers" series. Evanovich should leave the supernatural world alone, she does just fine with Stephanie and her crew in New Jersey.
Carl, the monkey, was a hoot!
I haven't been a huge fan of the "Between the Numbers" Plum books, but this one was terrific - definitely as good as any Numbered book. Loved Ranger, *loved* Carl the monkey, and loved Lula (she had some awesomely funny moments). This book was vintage Plum.
This is my favorite of the half books. Stephanie sure gets herself in to a bunch of problems.
AUTHOR Evanovich, JanetTITLE Plum SpookyDATE READ 05/20/2018 RATING 4/B GENRE/ PUB DATE/PUBLISHER / # OF Mystery/Random House/2009/ 7 discsSERIES/STAND-ALONE 14.5 Stephanie PlumCHARACTERS Stephanie Plum/Bounty Hunter  TIME/PLACE 2009/NJ COMMENTS Considered a between the numbers book of the Stephanie Plum series. Features the usual gang in Trenton with the addition of Diesel, another bounty hunter also vying for Stephanie's attention when Ranger and Morelli are not in the forefront. Monkeys and more monkeys fill the pages.
I thought this book was ok but was not as good as many of her others
Janet Evanovich’s Plum Spooky is the funniest Stephanie Plum book yet!
In this Stephanie Plum installment all the characters make an appearance: Joe Morelli, Diesel, Plum, Ranger, Tank, and of course Lulu who use to be a ho.
Stephanie Plum, incompetent bounty hunter, is in search of Martin Munch, boy genius, who skipped his bond, and in searching for him she meets Wulf, Diesel’s cousin.
Diesel is looking for Wulf to put an end to his antics.
Wulf warns Stephanie away from Munch because he’s doing a job for Wulf.
Fans will not want to miss reading Plum Spooky.
Unlike other between-the-numbers books in this series, this book didn't have a strong tie to a holiday, usually referenced by the title.
While spooky things may be happening in the book, it isn't because it's Halloween.
Also, things didn't get that spooky.
Stephanie spent far to much time rambling around in the Pine Barrens without accomplishing anything, Stephanie depended an awful lot on the big strong men around her to keep her safe (even though they didn't and she did get some crotch-kicking in), and I spent a lot of the book not caring or even remembering what they were trying to accomplish.
I’ve become bored by this series which is why this book was so delightfully surprising.
For one thing, it wasn’t particularly funny.
I don’t mean that the jokes fell flat because there were plenty of chuckles to be had, but Stephanie wasn’t reduced to Three-Stooges-like pratfalls just because.
Instead, she was smart, resourceful and interesting.
This was a Diesel book but not a stand-alone Diesel book which meant that Diesel was inside Stephanie’s life rather than Stephanie stepping outside her life in order to do something weird.
This is no weirder than anything else she has to do.
I love Stephanie Plum. I can't help it. As horrible as her life sometimes is, I would still like to be her for a couple of days. And while Plum Spooky did cause me to laugh out loud several times, it is only so-so. As a rule I haven't enjoyed the "Between the Numbers" books as well as the original series and that rule continues to hold true. It isn't the additional of supernatural Diesel that bothers me. He is an okay character. It is mainly the somewhat sloppy storyline that disappoints me.
Wow!
I really don't care for the Stephanie Plum between the novel books.
I read them so fast, so I can be done with them.
I love the Plum Series but the between the novel ones fall far short from the leading books.
I'm just not into the whole Diesel/magic guy who just mysteriously pops into Stephanie's house wanting help.
It gets kinda annoying.
There's not enough Morelli or Ranger in the book.
And way too much Diesel and Stephanie interaction.
The plot was ok, buy got carried away in most of it.
Hopefully FINGER LICKIN' FIFTEEN will be much better.
