https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20829994-percy-jackson-s-greek-gods
FINISHED THIS AND LOVED IT! Here's my review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oBm6K...
4.5 starsReasons to read Percy Jackson's Greek Gods to your kids (or let them read on their own without any parental censoring):1.
The incest is bluntly mentioned, but Percy spins it by saying the gods don't view relationships the same way humans do, which is valid.
Veterans of the Percy Jackson series already know that Riordan is capable of creating strong, intelligent female characters and equally as strong and intelligent male characters who don't necessarily feel the need to remind everyone of his masculinity or top his female companions.
If you're a beginner at Greek mythology or eager to become someone's favorite aunt/uncle (and get crossed off their parents' Christmas card list), give Percy Jackson's Greek Gods a try.
SO FLIPPING GOOD!!! Percy is a hilarious narrator, as you would expect, and hearing about the Greek Gods from his perspective is so interesting! I listened to the audiobook and I HIGHLY recommend it!Note: don't read until you've read PJO and HOO - there are references to those that could be considered spoilers.
Pre-Reading Review:   (Real Review included below :D)Do I really need to elaborate how this book will deserve more than 5 stars? Because being a Percy Jackson and basically a Rick Riordan fan, we 'know' how awesome this book is gonna be. But if you really wanna know why, here are some reasons-1. Book Cover- FANTABULOUS COVER! Seriously, The cover says all! How can you not just get the urge to peek inside a little after seeing the cover of this book? 2. Percy's POV - Percy Jackson, who being a
Because being a Percy Jackson and basically a Rick Riordan fan, we 'know' how awesome this book is gonna be.
Honestly, I didn't know much about Greek Mythology (an understatement really :P) before reading Percy Jackson & Olympian Series.
Before this book, whenever I read Heroes of Olympus series and the Demigods would say that Gods are so dangerous and stuff, I would be like  Psshh...
All in all, this WHOLE book, Was a bucket full of AWESOME!So, once again, Thankyou so so so much Percy Jackson for writing this one (of course he gets the credit, right?).
Teacher: Does anyone know something about Greek Mythology?Me (after reading Percy Jackson's book): I wrote it many times, but one more time: You don't find better book about Greek Mythology than those from Rick Riordan. He should definitely write all text books, because he would turn studying in something you will enjoy. In this book you get to know main Greek Gods in a hilarious way, which can provide only Rick's writing style.  She (Tethys) ended up marrying Oceanus, which was kind of a no-bra
Teacher: Does anyone know something about Greek Mythology?Me (after reading Percy Jackson's book): I wrote it many times, but one more time: You don't find better book about Greek Mythology than those from Rick Riordan.
He should definitely write all text books, because he would turn studying in something you will enjoy.
In this book you get to know main Greek Gods in a hilarious way, which can provide only Rick's writing style.
'And where is your son Pelops?''Actually,' Tantalus said, 'that's him in the stew.
I thought it will be another boring book about Mythology, but no.I enjoyed every chapter, every page!
Rezension: https://youtu.be/Nm9lDT2X6zs

So this book was much like a teeny weeny encyclopaedia of the vast Gods of Ancient Greece with a perfect touch of Riordan’s awesome sense of humor.
I especially liked the way he (I mean, Percy) started narrating the infamous stories of the Greek Gods; like from the very beginning of this world…from Gaia and Ouranos and Titans and eventually leading to the GODS.
And there must be no comments made on Riordan’s writing style; it’s humorous (doubtless!) and quintessential (obviously!) and outstanding (totally!).Overall, this book was enjoyable and fast-paced and who could tell the stories of the ancient gods of Olympus better than a modern-day demigod?
I am an ardent PERCY JACKSON fan.
I will read them all.Percy Jackson telling the tale of the Greek Gods, or to be more precise, his sincerely powerful and definitely dysfunctional family is pure gold.
Percy tells it like it is.
A must-have for all Percy Jackson fans and a fun introduction into the world of Greek Gods.(And oh!....it had a tiny *WHEN Percy Jackson MET Carter Kane* short story at the end.
And definitely grist for the Riordan myth factory)
Adoré este libro. Percy contando las historias de los dioses fue una experiencia en sí. El humor y las referencias a la cultura pop fueron unas de las cosas que más me gustaron. Reseña completa en Gracias a los Libros.
Blog | Bookstagram | Google + | Pinterest | Tumblr ItalianoHo scritto questa recensione molto tempo fa, ma la sto postando solo adesso perché l’avevo scritta su un foglio di carta e io, uhm, sono una persona pigra quindi ho lasciato la recensione sul pezzo di carta invece che scriverla sul computer.
Personalmente io penso che questo sia uno buono che deve essere letto , non aggiunge niente alla storia, ma ti aiuterà a capire di più gli dei greci e saprai qualcosa in più sulla mitologia greca (che non è così male, sai).• È mitologia greca e Rick Riordan quindi è interessante e divertente allo stesso tempo!
Also, THE FUNNY CHAPTER TITLES YESSSS!
Words can't describe how much I miss the chapter titles in the Heroes of Olympus!
All the stories in this book were so well put together, which in itself was great, but they were so funny!
It doesn't get more charming than that!"You can't swing a cat in Ancient Greece without hitting one of Zeus's ex-girlfriends.""If you plan on living forever by sticking the god of death under your bed, you're out of luck."And the chapter titles!
SO MUCH!This book was so fun to read, and tided me over for a couple days during he AGONIZING WAIT for The Blood of Olympus.
Vale, pues esto lo acabé de leer hace unos tres días, pero se me había olvidado actualizar Goodreads, así que aquí va la reseña :)¿Cuándo un libro de Rick Riordan me ha decepcionado?
Yo soy una sucker para todo lo relacionado con mitología y, por lo tanto, estoy muy enterada de los mitos y sé en qué partes a Percy se le está yendo la olla contando algo, ¡pero eso lo hace aún mejor!
Es decir, claro, por los mitos clásicos nos podemos imaginar a Zeus como un tipo fortachón, serísimo y muy mujeriego, pero aquí Percy/Rick le da un tono muy propio de Don Juan, de esposo atemorizado por que su mujer lo agarre y, encima, un poco despistado...
So goddamn excited about this it's unreal.
I haven't laughed so much reading a book in a while. This was so refreshing. I love Rick Riordan, and Percy obviously haha
Han pasado ochenta mil años pero por fin he conseguido terminar este libro.
Y mirad que me duele darle esta puntuación a Rick Riordan, pero es que ha sido un coñazo.No sé, yo cuando leo un libro de este señor espero que sea algo ameno, ligero y que me haga reír.
Pero este libro era torrentes y torrentes de información que ni siquiera era gracioso.
Creo que sobran muchas cosas en este libro, idk.
Algo que haga que la cosa tire para delante, como en Héroes Nórdicos.En fin, que no me ha gustado este libro.
Already giving it 5 stars because I read the first chapter and it's hilarious xD You're going to love this so much.http://chbwiki.tumblr.com/post/801278... (Introduction)http://chbwiki.tumblr.com/post/801308... ( I )http://chbwiki.tumblr.com/post/801311... ( II )
Wäre es nicht in dieser schrecklichen Möchtegern - Jugendsprache geschrieben worden, wäre es ein glattes 5* Buch gewesen. Aber so MUSS ich 1* abziehen! :"(
I've read all the Percy Jackson books, and the Heroes of Olympus series, so thought I'd enjoy this.
Rick Riordan took on a mammoth task in compiling this book, with so many myths and legends surrounding Greek mythology.
By managing to stick solely to the main Gods, Riordan manages to keep the stories within the book on track, without getting bogged down by various side Gods, nymphs or hero quests.
I've read a fair few books now on Greek mythology, and although not the most comprehensive, this is certainly the most readable, and is easily accessible to readers on all levels.
By the gods, I missed Percy's narrative so much that starting this book I almost physically started hurting from the rainbows that developed in my tummy. I pretty much loved The Heroes of Olympus, but third POV just didn't suit Percy at all and I think he missed some of his magic that way.Seriously, could you imagine this: "...First I'll tell you how the world got made. Then I'll run down a list of gods and give you my two cents about each of them. I just hope I don't make them so mad they incin
I pretty much loved The Heroes of Olympus, but third POV just didn't suit Percy at all and I think he missed some of his magic that way.Seriously, could you imagine this:
Let's just say that the assembly of those powerful and wise immortal gods that people used to worship, weren't working so right in the head and they're definitely more stupid than we thought and, of course, deserve those little nicknames that Percy made for them, like Old Thunderbritches *cough*we all know who we're talking about*cough*.To end this crazy review (view spoiler)[that I've warned you was going to be quotes to convince you to read this (hide spoiler)], I'm just going to close it with Percy again, because I fucking missed him that much.
I NEED THIS. RIGHT THIS INSTANT. SERIOUSLY. MY HANDS ARE WAITING FOR YOUR CERTAIN HEAVINESS, BOOK.
It's been a while since I've laughed this hard while reading! I simply adored reading from Percy's POV again. In fact, I might need to find some time to reread all the PJO books! John's illustrations were gorgeous as well--especially the ones for Demeter, Hephaestus and Ares.
So, Rick Riordan strikes again. I knew it would be awesome but what I didn't know that it would be this AWESOME! And after a long time we got the whole package of Percy. Greek mythology always enchants me, but after reading this book, I am totally blown-away! It's just an epic masterpiece! I just gulped it! :D And the illustrations! They are just mind- blowing! Percy should write more often from now. It was a really really pleasant reading. I wish all my text books were written in this way.
The Percy Jackson-world is my second favourite book world of all time (after Harry Potter) and it was so fantastic to read this book. Greek mythology is one of my interests I'd probably make my job of. I learn classical Greek in school, which also teaches us about myths and gods so YES THIS WAS MY CUP OF TEA! I HAVE TO RE-READ PERCY JACKSON QUICKLY!
Rick Riordan's short story collections have made me fall in love with short stories again . Only if all other were this entertaining and funny .
I have been taken to a whole new level of story-telling.
I think it's a witty way to share the stories and legends of Greek myth because really.
Who would want to suffer oldies like Edith Hamilton's Greek Mythology?
Kidding.
This is a great way to encourage a lot of people, especially children, to be aware of Greece's history and beliefs.
This book hits two birds with one stone by being both educational and entertaining.
A very impressive publication, Uncle Rick!Also...
Percy!
I started this adventure with mostly Percy, and I'm so glad to be ending it with him, too.
“You're already married!" Hera protested. "To me!""Curses!" said Zeus. "Er, I mean, of course, dear.”4.75This was so good! I was always fascinated by Greek myths, but from Percy's POV the story gets even better. There was so much that I learned. And of course the humor and all modern day references were on point. Mentioning little details from the PJO and HOO just warmed my heart and made me realize how much I missed this world and the characters. However,some of them might be considered spoilers,so I would recommend finishing both series before reading this one.
Да съм казвала, че обожавам Рик Риърдън и че Пърси е мечтания ми полубог.
Как по-точно да не се увлечеш от начина на писане на Риърдън или как да не се влюбиш в хумора и смелостта на Пърси.
Знаете ли какво Пърси може да е реален и да си седял удобно с пица в ръка и да е разказвал на чичо Рик, а той като добър ученик да е записвал всичко или още по-добре, да е тренирал с меч в ръка например, че не мога да си го представя с неговата хиперактивност да седи часове на едно място.
My original review was deleted. This is because its an absolute trashy-fangirly mess written when I was 14! I may come to read this later and review it critically.
You know my buddy Percy Jackson, right?
I am a fiction myself, so I am allowed to be anyone.)So a few days ago I heard that Percy wrote a book.
Rick Riordan (*cough cough* who is not someone very important btw) created him quite well (I wish he had created me too, but well, I was brought to this world by a no name good for nothing all high and might stupid wannabee author) in that sense.
Poseidon had some anger management issue (Percy, forgive me, your dad was a Jerk, he shouldn't have done that to Athena or her followers).
She should totally read this book.
