https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/296125.Stormy_Misty_s_Foal
And therefore, even though the plot of Stormy, Misty's Foal is most definitely highly romanticised and fictionalised, it is still (and has definitely remained) very much a favourite reading experience for me, a joy and a comfort that bring together everything I tend to enjoy and appreciate in a good horse story for children (exciting, emotion-filled scenarios, nuanced both human and animal characters and a plot that while at times sounding a trifle over-the-top, still reads as something that could have happened, and in fact and in truth, even though the main characters are indeed pretty much different from reality, and the actual timeline is also quite a bit off, the events themselves, including Misty being stabled in the Pony Ranch kitchen during the storm, during the forced evacuation of Chincoteague, are in fact true, are in fact totally based on reality).
We make the perfect pair, as she can explain the horse-y elements of the plot and I can explain life in the 1960's.As Grandpa Beebe and Paul travel up to Deep Hole with their neighbor, the author refers to the fabric scraps that the neighbor has brought along to make flags.
(Luckily, she'd seen Seven Brides for Seven Brothers.)I am also able to translate all the countrified expressions used by Grandma and Grandpa, though a couple have mystified me.We both love this book, as we loved Misty of Chincoteague.
I love the Chincoteague stories as much as when I read them as a young child. I long to live there and watch the wild ponies running free.
I adored Misty of Chincoteague, but I just didn't like Story, Misty's Foal as much. It was okay, yes, but it wasn't amazing. I found it pretty sad and seemed to have no actual plot.
I love the Beebe's, but only in small doses.
It's so cute how the strongest support in times of stress is peppermint candy, and next is bacon or ham...
no spirits here!Fans of the horses themselves won't find much to satisfy, here, at least until the end.
It really is mostly an adventure tale of the storm.
And it's a bit of feminist manifesto, as the reader is more likely to empathize with Maureen's frustrations rather than Grandma's faith in "God's plan" for gender roles.Btw, I do wish I'd read an earlier version, as I cannot believe that the reproductions for Aladdin of Dennis' art are well-done, and the cover is just wrong.
What I mean is, there is hardly any continuity between Sea Star and this one.
Sea Star doesn't even seem to exist in this book; he's never mentioned.
They even mention a puppy they used to have (which was not there in either of the previous books) and don't explain why that one's gone.
And it isn't explained how or why Misty is back from her tour around the world.Other than those faults, the book holds the same quality as the others, so I couldn't rate it too low; the only reason I went as low as I did was because it was jarring to come into the next book with no connection to the last one.
The book is even signed by Billy King Beebe, who even though he is not named in the story because Marguerite Henry kept the names Paul and Maureen from her first book about the island, is the boy who these events happened to in real life!
We also got to see the real Misty and Stormy that have been stuffed and preserved for all posterity - rather creepy in a way but we can say we really saw them (and touched them too - oops - saw the sign after we petted them!).
As we read the story, I kept thinking of our vacation.
Molly says we should give this five stars, but I’m gonna stick with four. We are enjoying this series so much.
I have always loved the Marguerite Henry horse books, and one of the first Breyer horses I ever bought as a young girl was of Stormy, Misty's foal (probably because it was small so it was less expensive and I could afford it, but also because I just loved it).
I was surprised to learn that Marguerite Henry in fact OWNED Misty for 11 years, having bought her as a foal (she was foaled on the Beebe farm, and was not a "wild" pony).
Misty went back to live with the Beebe's in her older life and Stormy was one of her foals, but Clarence, Ida and Paul Beebe were all DEAD before Stormy was born, so that whole part was fictionalized.
Spoiler alert: my 7 year old daughter considered giving this 5 stars, but lowered her rating because the foal isn't born until 3/4 of the way thru the book. The story concentrates on a huge storm and how the people handle it. While animals are a part of the story, they are secondary too often too the people for my animal loving daughter's comfort.
I liked how the two female characters had differing opinions of female roles in society, with the teenage girl fighting against the grandmother's definitions of what a girl should do.
I also liked that this was based on a true story, it makes for a more in-depth story, even if written with simple language to appeal to early teens.
I less liked the single-minded obsession with Misty the horse (especially when there was a bunch of other animals).
Happy endingsThis a great story that demonstrates the people of a small island resolve after a disastrous storm nearly destroys their way of life. A real feel good story that leaves you feeling satisfied and content.
This is the grittiest and arguably the most fact-based book Marguerite Henry ever wrote, about the time of the great Ash Wednesday nor'easter of 1962 -- a storm so powerful that it permanently changed the shape of the Eastern seaboard.
Her previous two died of colic.) When I was a kid, it was a joy to find an old National Geographic article on the Ash Wednesday storm that contained a photo of Misty and Stormy.
Misty really did ride out the storm in the Beebe house.I get mixed feelings about this book because it made me happy to read it and yet it was based on very sad events.
In the book Stormy, Misty’s Foal, by Marguerite Henry, Paul and Maureen Beebe reluctantly evacuate their home on Chincoteague Island with their grandparents, as a huge storm washes over their island.
The worst part is that they have to leave their beloved pregnant pony Misty on the island.
As the days pass by, the Beebe’s have to be exceptionally strong, while their pony is trapped on the flooding island and when they finally return home, they find Misty and her newborn Stormy, unharmed.
I believe the theme of this book is that if life turns to the worst, it may get better if you believe it will, and remain strong and true to yourself.
In this one Misty is expecting a foul and the children are worried about her.
But in the mist of watching for the birth a major weather event comes in and people are asked to leave the island.
But the family doesnt' want to leave Misty behind.
But as usual the family put their thinking caps on and work together as a family and save Misty and her new foul.
Very nicely written.
Also listened to this on CD and the guy that read it did a really nice job at it

Stormy, Misty's Foal is definitely one of my favorites as well as other books my Marguerite Henry! This book was action-packed and made you not want to put it down. It told the story of Misty giving birth to her foal, Stormy, and then Paul and Maureen trying to save her from the wild hurricane that was going there way. It was very exciting and I really enjoyed it!
Hard to rate this one - I remember reading it as a youngster, and presumably enjoying it. Re-reading it, I found it rather dated, a bit condescending and the characters' obsession with Misty a bit hard to understand. Interesting to read the (fictional) experience of a community affected by a major flood, particularly as it seems little has changed.
I have no memory of reading this as a child, though I am sure I did. I am a little disappointed as so far this is very little about "horses" and more just about people. Also, frankly, the writing is just weaker.
spoiler alert: You don't find out that the mamma horse and her foal are safe until Chapter 18. That's a long time if you're 7 years old and this is being read chapter-by-chapter as a nighttime story. Excellent story nonetheless, and based on true events for the islanders.
As with Misty of Chincoteague, we listened to this on CD. For some reason, Logan, who is 5, didn't enjoy this one as much.
This was one of my favorites as a kid, but it doesn't quite hold up all these years later! It's a whole lot sadder than I remember too.
This is a lovely story of horses, of storms, of people, and how they weather the storms, and how they bounce back and work together to rebuild after the storms, and just all around a feel-good story.
If a children's author wrote a beloved story about an adorable puppy who was born during the Katrina hurricane in New Orleans, it still wouldn't be as cute as Stormy.
Not as good as the first, but still a fun one for horse-lovers
The book looks just like the one in the picture, but after I opened it I questioned the library edition description.
Maybe the pages are made out of recycled paper or something, but they look cheesy and are definitely not of the high quality that would stand up to library usage.For this reason and this reason only, I am giving the book 4 stars instead of 5, my apologies to the author's family.
My criticism regarding the quality of the paper the book is printed on does not reflect Marguerite Henry's legacy.
My only wish is that today's children have the opportunity to read this fine book whatever the paper quality.
Read this book with my girls as a bedtime story. They absolutely loved reading Misty together, so they were excited to continue on with the story of Misty in this book. The anticipation of the birth of her first foal - along with the build up to the storm on Chincoteague and its aftermath- made for an engaging read. It's always nice to find a book to read to my kids that I can enjoy as much as they do!
There is something so down to earth about the Beebe family, and so touching about the way they handle difficult times together, that I often had to read through a lump in my throat. There is something deeper to this simple story, and I am glad we read it aloud as a family to have the shared memories. My children begged to read this one night after night before bed or at meal times. They grew to love the Beebe family and Misty and her foal too!
In this book, a severe storm disrupts the entire town, forcing them to evacuate. This is very upsetting for the two main characters. They worry about how the town will be able to bounce back from this awful blow as they prepare for special events that the town hosts. I thought this was a good story.
Again, beautiful story-telling with very little plot. I love the "old-timey" feel of the series. What happened to Sea Star, the pony the adopted in the last book? For a book with no plot, it had an awful lot of plot holes...(breathe, Lindsay, it's a children's book).
