https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25937671-a-mother-s-reckoning
Over the years, after a long time researching the Columbine case, I'd learned to view Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris as human beings.
Since I was already treading this ground with the information that yes, Dylan was at some point just an ordinary kid, it wasn't hard for me to simply give into listening to her story as a mother who'd lost her child in more than one way.
In a post-Columbine world, it's easier for people to point the finger, although after reading this book, and hopefully with an open mind, they'd find that they no longer realize what they're pointing at.
I have to admit I felt a little hesitant to order this at first, until I saw  "All author profits from the book will be donated to research and to charitable organizations focusing on mental health issues." Now that I have finished reading it, I am very glad to have purchased and read it.
The story was not what I was expecting, and the heart break and anguish that Sue Klebold experienced, and was willing to share, makes me want to reach out and hug her.
Thank you Sue Klebold for sharing your story.
Audiobook, Library Overdrive,....read by Sue Klebold......SPOILERS INCLUDED...I haven’t felt this incredibly dissatisfied about a book, in the way I do, like this, in a very long time.A special thanks to local Goodreads friend - LisaVegan- for being a great support -discussing issues and battles I had - daily - hour by hour at times- with ‘my reckoning’: living with my thoughts and feelings in the aftermath of Sue Klebold’s memoir.It’s unimaginable the horrific devastating shocking pain - range of emotions a parent faces after a tragedy of this magnitude: denial, grief, loss, shock, fear, sadness, sickness, guilt, ashamed, etc., knowing your child killed 13 students - a teacher - and injured 24 others.
I think this audio hit me harder then I expected.
It took her many years to write this book.
She knows people blame her and her husband.
I wasn't sure what to expect when I started listening to this audio.
I respect Sue Klebold for writing this book.
I know there are many people that feel it shouldn't have been written, but I think we can all learn from her story and this terrible tragedy.
I was glad to hear that she is donating 100 percent of the money made from this book to mental health and suicide prevention research.
"Her book is a tribute to Dylan without being an excuse, and a moving call to action for mental health advocacy and research."A MOTHER'S RECKONING is a detailed and graphic account of the carefully planned massacre that occurred at Columbine High School on April 20, 1999.
(Having raised a son, I can attest that teenagers are often a difficult species to decode.)Final Note: Author profits from this book will be donated to research and charitable foundations focusing on mental health issues.
The description makes sense, but it bugs.) Dave Cullen made it abundantly clear in Columbine that both boys, Dylan and Eric, suffered from mental health issues and explained the ways that this manifested prior to and during the planning of the massacre.
(“We’ll just keep the parts where I’m trying to understand why my teenage son committed mass murder.”) The guns were acquired from unlicensed sellers at a gun show by someone other than Dylan and Eric, and it seems to me to be especially prudent for Klebold to have discussed the importance of gun control, whether it be gun show loopholes, background checks, or responsible ownership in the context of mental health issues in the home (see: Adam Lanza).
But having listened for the past few weeks to the audio version of Klebold’s book with rapt attention and a knotted stomach, I think it is probably more accurate to thank Klebold for openly sharing part of her journey in dealing with her son Dylan’s participation in the Columbine shootings.
(In fact, at times I felt ashamed of some of my own parenting lapses in comparison with hers.) She also spends much of the book suggesting that all parents should be extremely vigilant about any signs of depression in their children and teenagers because Dylan had done a very good job of concealing his true state of mind right up to the date of the shootings.
Sue Klebold seeks not to want to gloss over events or spend the entire book seeking pity from the reader, but to offer her own perspective of events and how she was blindsided by many of the narrative from April 20, 1999.
The early chapters offer a cogent narrative of the events of the day and the period that followed, a time in which Sue and her husband, Tom, were crippled with doubt and guilt for what Dylan had done.
As the book progresses, Klebold takes the reader back in time to depict Dylan as a loving boy who was extremely helpful and loving.
“Oh my son Absalom! My son, my son Absalom! If only I had died instead of you – Oh Absalom, my son, my son!” - The Book of 2 Samuel 18:33“Good wombs have borne bad sons.”- Miranda, in William Shakespeare’s The Tempest, Act I, Scene 2“On April 20, 1999, Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold armed themselves with guns and explosives and walked into Columbine High School. They killed twelve students and a teacher, and wounded twenty-four others, before taking their own lives. It was the worst school shooti
If only I had died instead of you – Oh Absalom, my son, my son!” -	The Book of 2 Samuel 18:33“Good wombs have borne bad sons.”-	Miranda, in William Shakespeare’s The Tempest, Act I, Scene 2“On April 20, 1999, Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold armed themselves with guns and explosives and walked into Columbine High School.
But then Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, students like me, walked into Columbine High School, a school like my own, and killed a dozen of their classmates, who could have been my friends.
It's truly one of the most haunting books I've ever read, especially considering Sue's detailed backstory of Dylan's "normal" childhood and upbringing.
But the way that Sue recovered from this tragedy and educated herself on suicide and school shootings, and the amount of research that went into this book was SO unexpected.
It's not just a self-indulgent story about how sad she is and her excuses about what could have gone wrong; it's a regretful admission that she could have done better, but also a call-to-action for others to recognize suicide and mental health and the ways to prevent tragedy moving forward.
I found Sue Klebold to be honest, empathic, and credible with the facts she gathered and presented them well, and willing to take responsibility for her son.
A Mother’s Reckoning is a sincere gesture in sharing and I thought Sue Klebold shared some very important information, messages and insight to living in the aftermath of tragedy.
Sue takes us from, denial to acceptance and then to some kind of comprehension of her life and the part of the tragedy committed by her son.
I think this is something you need to read for yourself if you have any questions or interest in what Sue Klebold has to share.
I think now more than ever in a time when the Internet and Social Media has become such a huge part of teenagers and children's every day life and parents struggle to know exactly what their kids are browsing or becoming sucked into, this book raises important alarms or even important discussions which as parents we need to be having. I had recently read   and when a goodreads member reviewed   by Sue Klebold I really wanted to read it to try and understand why a teenager could commit such horri
The book focuses on the aftermath of the tragedy and how the family tried to come to terms and understand what had happened to turn their son into a murderer and how they struggled on a daily basis with the stress and grief.The book is superbly written and you cant help feeling this mother's pain as she struggles to understand why her son who is precious to her and her family could do something so horrific and as a mother of a teenage son it just doesn't bear thinking about and to be honest I found the book at times quite difficult reading and yet Sue Klebold tells her story so well, never seeking pity and always trying to convey how regular a family they were and what signs she thinks she missed that Dylan was troubled.
This book reads like a taut justification defending how good her family is, while very subtly hinting at how "others" live: "I hadn't even been one of those cool parents who smokes pot with their kids or introduces them to their groovy boyfriends." (119).
I am one person, but my experience is that this book is an insult to a number of people: survivors of Columbine and other violent shootings; parents who have lost children to violence; parents who have lost children to any reason: and the field of mental health.
This book was extremely difficult to read at times, and I can only imagine how hard it was for Klebold to write.
It's a horrible story and one that we sadly see repeated year after year; and it's hard not to feel defeated, like things will never change and there's nothing we can do about it.
But amongst the more trivial things in this book—like Klebold's excellent writing for someone who doesn't do this professionally—I think what stands out most is Klebold's optimism and faith that we can change things.
and we look at people as fellow human beings struggling to make the most of their time on earth, we can change the world.
3.5 starsSue and Tom Klebold's son - Dylan Klebold - was one of the Columbine High School shooters.
On April 20, 1999 Dylan and his friend Eric Harris brought explosives and guns to school, apparently planning to cause mass carnage by blowing up the building.
She read widely, did research, and interviewed experts about mental illness, mass shootings, murder/suicides, school bullying, gun availability, and so on....to try to make sense out of Dylan's actions.Four years after the shootings the Klebolds were deposed by attorneys and the lawsuits were settled.
I think many people who read this book will empathize with Sue Klebold.
Sue Klebold's life as she knew it ended abruptly on that day 17 years ago when she not only lost her son, but was left behind to piece together a puzzle that could never be completed.
Having interviewed and spoken with countless professionals over the years, she shares in the second half of the book the studies and professional opinions that support a greater emphasis on understanding, removing the stigma around, and treating brain health issues.I didn't feel she ever attempted to defend her parenting, her family, or her son.
I'm giving it a 3.5 just in terms of the writing, readability and narrative flow but I am in no position to review the veracity of what happened here.All I can say is that I feel great sympathy for Sue Klebold and everyone affected by this tragedy.
She does a great job of giving readers insight into what it would be like to be in her position.
I think the real lessons of this book are twofold: to attempt to lead with compassion and withhold judgement as much as we are able, and two, to be much more mindful and watchful with our children.
The clueless parents who allowed Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold to prepare for a massacre under their very noses???Yeah, it's that last question of parenting (not that I'm a tragedy tourist) that compelled me to immediately put  A Mother's Reckoning on my tbr shelf after its publication announcement (where it remained for months, unsure if I really wanted to revisit Littleton, repentant mom or no.) Only the recent raves of my GR friends led me back to Sue Klebold's certain-to-be-harrowing memoir.Can you possibly imagine what it's like to be a parent of (what you believe to be) a well-adjusted, bright, intelligent teenager, only to find, mere weeks after his touring the University of Arizona (the school he was accepted to attend) and three days before attending his Senior Prom, his orchestrating his own death, the deaths of of 12 of his classmates and a teacher, injuring nearly two-dozen more, traumatizing a couple thousand more, and inspiring an untold number of copycats?
To say "I really liked it" is not accurate; but I am so very glad that I read this book (huge thank you to Dave Cullen for the recommendation). Ms. Klebold is honest and reflective in ways that I cannot imagine. It seems to me that she genuinely only bared her life and soul with the earnest hope that someone can learn from her "mistakes". Much of her story is scarier than Stephen King, but hers is a horror we can learn from and hopefully avoid in our own lives. I admire the courage, diligence &a
To say "I really liked it" is not accurate; but I am so very glad that I read this book (huge thank you to Dave Cullen for the recommendation).
It seems to me that she genuinely only bared her life and soul with the earnest hope that someone can learn from her "mistakes".
Much of her story is scarier than Stephen King, but hers is a horror we can learn from and hopefully avoid in our own lives.
I admire the courage, diligence & tenacity that went into every single sentence in this book and I appreciate the knowledge I've gained.
In retrospect, I'm glad she waited this long to tell her story as it will undoubtably help other parents of teenagers to recognize troubling signs in their children in time to avoid potential disastrous outcomes.
I'm really, really glad Sue Klebold wrote this story and I got the privilege of listening to the book, hearing her tell it in her own voice.
No one saw any obvious signs in Dylan's behavior to even imagine him ending his life, let alone the way he chose to do so.
Not a day goes by when I drive by the school that I don't wonder about and tear up for all involved.
In fact, I marvel at our community's ability to carry on.It would be easy to say the parents of Dyan and Eric were bad; that they caused that horrible day.
However, on almost every page of Sue's book I found myself nodding and thinking, I could see that in my own children as they made their way from teens to adults.
This book in no way defends the horrible actions.
Let me start off by saying whenever one of these horrific events happens, I always feel so badly for the family because I know they are going to be blamed and that is not fair at all.
However 80% of this book is her telling me what a normal family they were and what I normal childhood he had (and I believe it) and the other 20% that he had a brain disease and was suicidal (and I believe that too).
I am a suicide survivor.
There are tens of thousands to suicides every year and they don't take out a bunch of innocent people with them.
While there is certainly a possibility that these factors could influence a child to commit violent acts, the way Klebold speculates on these various topics in the book without citing very many examples of specific evidence (scientific studies, her own personal observations, statistics since Columbine etc.) tends to muddy the waters a bit.
I think Klebold is genuinely trying to be an advocate for people with depression, but she is doing it in a very misguided way and in some ways I feel like she's spreading a lot of misinformation.
Klebold also states throughout the book that she believes that Dylan was attempting to pull himself out of the darkness of his depression.
April 20, 1999 – Columbine High School – Littleton, ColoradoWho does not remember this day when Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold killed twelve students, one teacher, wounded twenty-four others, and then took their own lives?A Mother’s Reckoning Living in the Aftermath of Tragedy is Sue Klebold’s undertaking to describe what it is like to be the mother of the child who committed this horrible act, to give a portrait of her life, her family, before and after this mass killing.Sue Klebold had questions and she repeats them throughout the book.
This book deserves a more eloquent review than I can muster this late in the evening. For now I will say that this broke my heart with it's bravery, honesty and compassion. More to come soon. Update: Upping this to 5 stars because I haven't stopped thinking about it since I put it down.
Klebold wrote the book to apologize to the people whom her son had killed, but she also wrote it to shed light on mental health and how various factors impact a child’s mental health, including their ability to lead to a child having suicidal tendencies.
As a result of reading this book, I will as a parent be certainly more sensitive to the mental health of my child while understanding how difficult it is to be able to see when one’s child is suffering.
Maybe I was right, but I've spent so may hours regretting that prayer: I wished for my son to kill himself and he did.""I asked Tom and Sue what they would want to ask Dylan if he were in the room with us, Tom said, "I'd ask him what the hell he was thinking and what the hell he thought he was doing!" Sue looked down at the floor for a minute before saying quietly, "I would ask him to forgive me, for being his mother and never knowing what was going on inside his head, for not being able to help him, for not being the person that he could confide in."
I read this book because a friend of mine suggested it.
I had just read Columbine by Dave Cullen and learned a ton about the school shooting in 1999.
Through this book she hoped to help other families recognize when a child is in distress and is depressed.
She tells her story using her personal journals, the videos and writings that Dylan left behind, and interviews with mental health experts.This book was very honest and eye-opening.
As a Special Education Teacher I never want to blame the parent(s) for their child's mental health issues.
However, Dylan was depressed and best friends with a psychopath.
When we hear about the actions of murderers we always think to ourselves: "How could they've done that?
Poor victims and their loved ones!" But we never think about the killer's loved ones.
They had nothing to do with murders but people judge them and make their life a living hell.
Not only they lost a loved one if this is a murder-suicide situation, they don't get any sympathy from people for their loss.
His home was normal, his family loving, but he was depressed.
So many people struggle with depression, why is this still such a stigma?
Sue Klebold literally says countless times, I am not excusing what my son did, so for anyone to make claims that this was the tone of the book, either didn't read the book, or read so with a pre-disposed opinion of The Klebods and/or the Columbine tragedy.I was so incredibly enlightened by this book.
But by reading this book, you will learn how truly different killers can be, and that while no one knows for sure if Columbine could have prevented, experts are almost positive, that Dylan's specific involvement, could have been.
