https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6753.Brief_Interviews_with_Hideous_Men
They had a delightful propensity for going off on rants or lists or ranting lists in their books - these are from the present book :we called them Granola Crunchers or simply Crunchers, terms comprising the prototypical sandals, unrefined fibers, daffy arcana, emotional incontinence, flamboyantly long hair, extreme liberality on social issues, financial support from parents they revile, bare feet, obscure import religions, indifferent hygiene, a gooey and somewhat canned vocabulary, the whole predictable peace and love post-Hippie dictionorLying there helpless and connected, she says her senses had taken on the nearly unbearable acuity we associate with drugs or extreme meditative states.
That to read DFW is to transgress the very act of simply reading through and discover a newer way to commune with his chain of thoughts, to work your grey matter just a tad bit harder to truly grasp what he has intended for you to understand.
It's like making yourself a part of the virtual reality he has recreated through his words and believing in the truth of it without trying to compartmentalize his writing.Hideous men (and, occasionally, women) and the alarmingly convoluted inner workings of their still hideous minds string this collection together.
Usually when some undergraduate English major brings up DFW to me at a keg party I tend auto-file them under "douchebag." Because, let's be honest people - Infinite Jest was profoundly not good.
But everything that's irritating about Wallace's thoroughly self-aware postmodern writing style is somehow much more stomachable in smaller bites.
A good percentage of the stories use painfully self aware "tricks" to "challenge" the modern concepts of narration, character, structure, etc -- "tricks" that are now being replicated unendingly in sophomore fiction writing seminars across the world, I'm sure.
But in the Interviews, Wallace manages the dialectic narration style more or less beautifully, somehow capturing both the worst and best traits of his characters.
It's official: my heart is broken for David Foster Wallace. Anyone who thinks they don't like him is, I'm sorry, an ass. This shit is just not up for debate.
"It is the height of spring, and the trees and shrubbery are in full leaf and are intensely green and still, and are complexly shadowed, and the sky is wholly blue and still, so that the whole enclosed tableau of pool and deck and poet and chair and table and trees and home’s rear façade is very still and composed and very nearly wholly silent, the soft gurgle of the pool’s pump and drain and the occasional sound of the poet clearing his throat or turning the pages of Newsweek magazine the only sounds—not a bird, no distant lawn mowers or hedge trimmers or weed-eating devices, no jets overhead or distant muffled sounds from the pools of the homes on either side of the poet’s home—nothing but the pool’s respiration and poet’s occasional cleared throat, wholly still and composed and enclosed, not even a hint of a breeze to stir the leaves of the trees and shrubbery, the silent living enclosing flora’s motionless green vivid and inescapable and not like anything else in the world in either appearance or suggestion.
I mean I can see how it could be a very just guy-type of book given that all the perspectives are all men and they’re all like, you know, pretty masculine and occasionally degrading to women and I could get how that might not make for the most sympathetic characters, if you know what I mean and not to generalize too much about women or anything.’‘Sure man, but I’m not sure if you have to sympathize with the character to appreciate a good book.’‘Ah!
I mean, I do try to write, but it’s not like I’m an actual writer in any real capacity.’‘For sure dude, you’ve got it.
He’s got that twitchy way of winking at you in his footnotes (some of which go on for pages).
He’s got the long, winding sentences that often have a kind of manic quality to them.
The long sentences are actually pretty brilliant for the most part and lend his stories a qualitative edge that is unique to DFW and somehow just…works.
All in all it’s not a bad drive and even with those DFW-isms I hated while reading Infinite Jest, it was nice being back in DFW territory.Of course not every story in this collection worked for me, which is why I’m only giving it three stars.
But this every time I get moody or withdrawn you thinking I'm leaving or getting ready to ditch you - I can't take it.
It makes me feel like I have to, like, hide whatever mood I might be in because right away you're going to think it's about you and that I'm getting ready to ditch you and leave.
I knew it, that you'd think this means you were right to be afraid all the time and never feel secure or trust me.
Brief Interviews is the strongest short story collection from the affectionately acronymously monikered DFW in this reviewer’s eyes—Girl With Curious Hair falling too far into a sort of rat-escaping-the-fictional-labyrinth obliqueness, and Oblivion supersized with unstoppable novella-length formal flops.
‘Forever Overhead’ and ‘The Depressed Person’ and ‘Octet’ and the title stories are the formidable insulation of the book, caulked with little vignettes and cool experiments, giving the collection a clear-minded unity, purpose .
The mostly appalling ‘Tri-Stan’ and ‘On His Deathbed’ can be excused because they belong to the broader purpose of allowing the one-of-a-kind mind of DFW to expand to its fattest, happiest horizons on the page for us all to see.
non vuole essere uno scrittore che tratta il suo lettore da deficiente, con la scusa che la modernità tale lo ha reso.Non vuole lisciarlo per il pelo offrendogli un brano commerciale, una trama avvincente che lo catturi completamente e gli faccia dimenticare di essere seduto in poltrona; né fare narrativa "di qualità" per descriverci personaggi senz’anima e senza amore, come se stesso peraltro, e che ripete semplicemente all’infinito il concetto.
Il nostro non lo fa.Piuttosto, lui si chiede come mai qualche essere umano “schifoso o meno” possa continuare ancora, in questo mondo, a provare la capacità gioia e carità per cose che non hanno un prezzo.
Never understood it, but peeling back the layers of the storytelling to reveal the process of writing works amazingly with some of these stories in that it for example shows the inability to craft a powerful story in modern times without sounding like you're falling into cliche, and even reflecting our own angst in doing this when we talk to each other (I definitely do this and I'm worried you think that what I just wrote is pretentious.
En general, me gustó, en especial La persona deprimida (brillante de principio a fin), El suicidio como una especie de regalo (oscuro y muy poderoso) y todas las Entrevistas breves con hombres repulsivos (exceptuando la última: soporífera).Tengo que agregar que de esta novela es muy improbable salir sin haber aprendido algo nuevo, o al menos sin conocerse mejor a uno mismo.
El intelecto de Wallace es palpable en cada párrafo de sus mejores trabajos, en este caso, cuentos.
En este libro Wallace no se guardó nada.
Considerando al autor, es una obra amena, que recomiendo sin lugar a dudas.
I opened Brief Interviews With Hideous Men and bashed myself against the towering walls of his prolixity, his long meandering stories, the seemingly endless sentences.
You’ll need to take a packed lunch, and perhaps an emergency beacon for when you inevitably become lost in his deep jungles of words that stretch for half a page or more, with only the odd comma to mark the trail.For me, Foster Wallace is the kind of writer who has you constantly flicking a few pages ahead, trying to motivate yourself with a mixture of the thoughts ‘there really aren’t that many pages to go, I can finish this’ and ‘this is a test.
David Foster Wallace has long seemed to me to be a cultural marker in the reading world.
Ho iniziato con questo....certo è ancora un pò presto per farmi un'idea completa sull'autore, però è un inizio.Il libro è costituito da diverse brevi interviste a uomini che rispondono a domande di cui non sapremo mai il contenuto ma solo la risposta.È un libro doloroso e schietto; doloroso e a tratti spaventoso perchè ci mette di fronte ad un lato dell'umanità pesante: uomini feriti, deviati, frustrati, rassegnati alla vita.
Wallace in questo è un gran genio, riesce perfettamente ad immedesimarsi in queste vite, descrivendo ogni minimo dettaglio di tutto ciò che queste persone pensano, velocemente, come se fosse urgente dire certe cose senza però aver sempre consapevolezza di quello che si dice, in una valanga di pensieri brevi e non.
Recommended for: DFW fans, ppl who want to expand their vocabulary & their mind.Shelf: Postmodernism,metafiction,American writer,short stories.I have many DFW works on my shelf but i picked this particular book up as the cover really grabbed my attention: the male face; covered in burlap sack,reminded me of the Phantom from 'The Phantom of the Opera', but unlike the tortured,homicidal,musical genius whose passion,angelic voice & sad past,made him a tragic character, hence,easy to feel compassion for- the same can't be said of this gallery of "hideous men"(save case no 46 & 42): pathological characters of varying degrees & hues: self absorbed,neurotic,cunning,cruel & what's worse aware of their cruelty,these meta, post-structuralist men who speak in quotation marks; throw their readings of Foucault & Lacan at you!
Che DFW sia un genio assoluto lo hanno già detto in tanti, e dopo aver letto il mio primo e unico suo libro non posso che banalmente confermare.
In questo caso mi è sembrata solo l'ennesima inutile complicazione.Tanti anime mefitiche una a fianco all'altra che nelanche una bolgia dantesca, che tuttavia qualcosa in comune mi sembra che l'abbiano.
Non è il male in sè a rendere un uomo "schifoso", ma i patetici trucchetti (che cosa sarebbero se non questo il solipsismo, il vittimismo, il pregiudizio?) che mettiamo in campo per compiacerci del nostro male ed allo stesso tempo sentirsi buoni.Prosa faticosa ed involuta, fortunatamente per questa volta a servizio di un libro assai breve.
I understand what this book is supposed to be, and it’s very eye-opening to note what he is doing/trying to do/succeeding to do in any one of these stories, but it is simply not enjoyable to read.
Other sections– the first of the ‘Hideous Men’ sections, for instance, or ‘Church Not Made With Hands’, a story about a young family in a tragic situation– are wonderful also, but are, in the case of the first, not as easy to enjoy, or, in the case of the second, so buried into the abrasive unpleasantness of the rest of this excellently-written book that by the time the reader gets to it he or she is simply too mentally exhausted to even recognize that this story is well-done and pleasant instead of abrasive.
There were chapters where i'd start with "Eh, is he really going to write about this, i'm not necessarily looking forward to this one," and i don't know if i'd say that the substance of the story is what ended up winning me over, but the style makes me care about and appreciate the substance.
(And then in some cases the substance of the story itself IS winning.)And there were moments when i'd think "Okay i can see why people think he's probably an arrogant jerk and yeah i too could have thought of second-guessing my own pieces and then writing one that actually comments on that, easy way out," but no, he then knocks that idea, and then the idea of that idea, and so on, he's soooo many steps ahead, he always has the upper hand.

Originally posted this on Eyeshot.net way back in 1999: In all the reviews I read of David Foster Wallace’s recently published “Brief Interviews with Hideous Men,” I haven’t read a discussion of generosity.
(These signify “three strikes”; most of DFW’s reviewers would probably mistake XXX for pornographic content just as they mistook the book to be primarily about society’s “hideous” obsession with sex.) Allow me to extend a fishing analogy past breaking: reviewers of “Brief Interviews With Hideous Men” have been like shallowstream-running fishies that swallowed the lure and died belly-up rather than getting snagged and eaten by the author.
The thing is, it's as if he decided he had to use every trick up his literary sleeve and instead of relying on the ingenuity and originality of his stories, he mucks it all up by trying too hard to be "unique." There are the brief interviews, which in and of themselves are interesting (saving this reviewer from having to give the author of one of my favorite books of the year one measly star).
One day when I'm feeling particularly masochistic, I may decide to finish the last few stories, but until then, this book can collect dust on the shelf where it belongs.
First time I was reading DFW's fiction and I absolutely loved it.
Before this I only knew him as a journalist and essay-writer, but his fiction really floored me.
the "Depressed Person" short story immediately became one of my all time favorite stories.
the omission in the interviews, the fast forwards and sudden cuts and mistakes that remain uncorrected for a few pages until a new writing tool is introduced to ensure the reader of an underlying meta-narrative; it all showcases DFW's mastery of storytelling.
Looking forward to exploring his bibliography furthermore.
Ripensarci, dopo oltre un anno dalla lettura. Alzare il voto ( tanto, che senso ha? Ma facciamolo comunque ), perché La persona depressa è ancora vividamente impresso nella memoria, quasi come l'avessi appena letto. Un sasso letterario che continua a generare increspature.Peccato che il resto della raccolta sia così altalenante, a coprire tutto il range che va dal capolavoro assoluto all'irritante ostentazione della propria bravura ( indiscussa ).
David Foster Wallace may be my favorite author, but I have to admit he had his shortcomings: uneven short fiction.
He never wrote a collection of short stories that has affected me on the same level as Infinite Jest or Consider the Lobster and Other Essays, although this one is his strongest to date.
But where Infinite Jest argues the positives of taking on this mindset, this reveals the negatives of not taking it on, while at the same point using the form of fiction as a sandbox.
Sono più schifosi gli uomini che fanno outing nevrotico/psicotico scavando dentro di sè e giustificando i propri comportamenti o chi, invece, è impermeabile e refrattario, tutto ciò non gli appartiene e nemmeno lo sfiora? Wallace non discrimina, semplicemente racconta quanto siamo "schifosi" o potremmo essere "schifosi"; complice il contesto.Uno degli "stili" usati ricorda la ripetitività dei soggetti in campo, ossessiva come per le opere di Andy Wharol, più simile all'immagine della sedia elettrica che non alla lattina della Campbell. Altro: periodi lunghissimi senza punteggiatura dove la struttura narrativa è sorretta da una logica impeccabile.Capolavoro.
Yes, sometimes he gets a bit pretentious and self-important by hitting you over the head with the fact of his great-writer-ness.
I think he really took the old saying about "it's not the story that matters, but how you tell it"to heart.All of the blurbs on the book's cover reference his humor, and while DFW certainly made me laugh at points, I think "irony" would be more accurate.
It's HYSTERICAL!" There's a sort of savagery to Wallace's comedy that makes you feel truly sorry for both him and his suffering.Which brings me to my last point, which is that it is impossible not to read DFW without the fact that he took his own life in mind.
Much of his writing is executed with such exquisite, painstaking detail that it not only causes me to visualize the scenario more clearly, but often at the same time a particular scene will make me recall memories that were long ago misplaced.
This story is about a thirteen-year-old boy who works up the courage to tackle that youthful right of passage of going off of the high dive for the first time.
One section, however, outlines the life of an older black man who has spent a majority of his work life as the attendant in a swanky restroom.
"Soon, perhaps, respected & glossy high-art organs might even start inviting smartass little ironists to contemporize & miscegenate BC mythos; & all this pop irony would put a happy-face mask on a nation's terrible shamefaced hunger & need; translation, genuine information, would be allowed to lie, hidden & nourishing inside the wooden belly of parodic camp."What else more is there to say about David Foster Wallace?
Flavors upon flavors until all that's left is a sugar rush.I put the book down and lie giggling at my ceiling, not just because it's funny and hip but because it's painfully, brutally sincere and honest.
a great introduction to the author, particularly for those readers who quiver in fear at the idea of Infinite Jest and A Supposedly Fun Thing. the language is unsurprisingly brilliant, the ideas at times playful and at other times fairly heavy, and the various portraits fascinating and often repulsive. wonderfully repulsive! men who engage in misandry are often interestingly self-flagellating yet defensive, and wallace is no exception. perhaps the only drawbacks are some forced jokiness and the pervasive sense that wallace is laughing at your expense. and he probably is, somewhere. you're gone but you live forever, david!
The most insufferable of the self-reflexive miasmas really become especially tiresome once they fall into a worse and related trap, (1a) the post-modern literary self-dissection*, which really is a form of the first, but with Wallace himself stepping into his own cross-hairs.
The flipside is our narrative type (2), or maybe (1c), the exterior monologue, the Brief Interview, whose self-reference is typically in fact a significant layer of meaning.
No "mere" cads and insensitives here, Wallace instead finessing intelligent, self-aware interviewees who carry themselves with some combination of apology and self-justification, people who understand why they are being scrutinized and are hideous because they stand by questionable convictions and, worse, often reveal them to be extremely everyday.
