https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5854.An_Area_of_Darkness
O my God, did V S Naipaul get out of bed the wrong side every single day of his life?
("Not letting you out till you cheer up old boy!").
The next time VS Naipaul rings me up and suggests a swift half of Tetley's at The Gladstone I'm going to tell him to call round at my house first.
The last bit would be my homage to Hitchcock's Frenzy, which is his last great film.If that doesn't cheer him up, nothing will.
If you are an Indian, this book is one of the most difficult things you can read.
The difficulty arises from the undeniable truth in what Mr Naipaul writes.
You resist that truth but are forced to acknowledge it as well.
It is uncomfortable: that someone (an outsider?) can see that overwhelming reality of circadian Indian existence—and what lies beneath it—and articulate it so well is not easy to accept perhaps.
But one is moved to accept it.
Widely criticized for its negativity, this book actually shines in darkness.
Reading this book is a starting point of understanding India.
The Area of Darkness, when it was published in 1964, created an uproar among Indians and was intensely criticised for its unkind, deriding and supercilious view of India.Naipaul's literature, much like his personality demonstrates a certain extremism -where there are few or no grey areas.
The entire experience is a deeply personal one -- and Naipaul himself behaves like a rather fussy, ungenerous foreign-returned guy(he was just about 30 years old) who criticises the loss of his 'imagined world' without bothering to delve into the reasons for it.
There was a time when I loathed Naipaul, wondering how someone never born and brought up in India can pass such judgements on her so unabatedly, but of course I was naive.
Am older and less of a spring-chicken now in such matters.Now, If there is someone whose judgement on India I give a true fuck about these days it has to be his ( Well, may be along with Upamanyu Chatterjees).
I am sure the book is hated in India and by Indian journalists/reviewers ; surely nothing could speak better for the book.
If one can imagine the difficulties Naipaul suffers now in a period in which the principle of 'free speech' is being eroded by nice white people to 'you can say what you like as long as we agree with it', it speaks buckets for this book that he experienced the 'censorship of the offended' the very moment it appeared.
Banned in India and still banned over fifty years later.This sits badly with me, not only because of the issue of free speech, but also because he didn't look at all at the side of India which is truly dark.
I don't really understand why people who see this as only a personal critique of India, don't understand this.
Particularly amusing is his running relationship with the staff of a small hotel on Dal Lake, in Northern India, where he experiences the mutual dependency between masters and servants familiar to russian and ancient regime writers.
The backdrop is provided by the Chinese invasion and Indian defeat (this defeat is the last of endless defeats over the past millenium, and an emblem for them all).The book, although picturesque in some points is extremely bleak and really justifies Naipaul's famed ability to stare at reality in the face, and not flinch.
To venture among a people, to talk to them, to find out everyday drama, to unearth "suppressed histories" (a term used by the Nobel committee), and to ultimately look...
It helps that he has not matured in India, so that he can have a fresh approach to the country, and comes to uneasy conclusions about its people.
In Chennai, at the theosophical society a man is giving an important-sounding speech about occult and Annie Basant, and Naipaul tells us: two men in the audience were dozing.
Naipaul reads "an occasional impatience" in Aurobindo's response.
This book does not describe India as it is, but India as it looks, to him.
I would never want to read this book again, nor would I recommend it to others unless they knew what they were getting into--but the endless historical essays on caste and English colonialization did eventually end, and did lead into a really interesting place for Naipaul.
One of my chief complaints with the book as I read was that Naipaul kept himself aloof, that so much of the book was abstract historical essay instead of real stories of his travels.
The last 60 pages, however, were almost entirely of Naipaul's experience and dealt with the real people he met and the terrible misunderstandings he had.
V.S. Naipaul caustically spins out, at arms distance, in silky, spidery prose, his accumulated frustrations, bitterness and resentments. Born in Trinidad, the grandson of a brahmin immigrant, he exemplifies the constant, dull, poignant unease of flimsy, shallow postcolonial roots triply severed from a childhood in Trinidad, a garbled, crumbling heritage from India foisted on a child that knew no better and a half-hearted yearning for an England that never was:To me as a child the India that had
Born in Trinidad, the grandson of a brahmin immigrant, he exemplifies the constant, dull, poignant unease of flimsy, shallow postcolonial roots triply severed from a childhood in Trinidad, a garbled, crumbling heritage from India foisted on a child that knew no better and a half-hearted yearning for an England that never was:To me as a child the India that had produced so many of the persons and things around me was featureless, and I thought of the time when the transference was made as a period of darkness [...]And even now, though time has widened, though space has contracted and I have travelled lucidly over that area which was to me the area of darkness, something of that darkness remains, in those attitudes, those ways of thinking and seeing, which are no longer mine [...]I came to London.
it takes a special genius to damn a country for it's climate ALSO.
and the world never tires of telling what a special genius naipaul is.
lots of perfectly formed sentences in between.all of which are on display in this book that to me seems to be more about naipaul than about india.
someone with a salary of 600 rupees is a "600 rupees a month man." another is a "1200 rupees a month man." irony and satire are impossible in india.
after a point the book is a drag.
what is in it hasn't been my experience of india.
In the preface to the edition I read (from 2010) he lets his readers know that his bad mood during at least the first part of the book was due to a creative crisis he was going through at the time – this might be true, or it might be not; but in any case, it reminds us that, even though An Area of Darkness is a book of non-fiction, its narrator might still be somewhat less than completely reliable.Also, the Grumpy Traveller is a figure with a long tradition in British travel literature, going back to at least Tobias Smollett’s 
This is an extraordinary dissection of India, and Indian society.
Naipaul laments throughout as to how the Indians as a people are incapable of truly looking at themselves and society, as it exists in the here and now.
He seems to possess an uncanny ability to dive deep into the collective impulses of a complex society, and emerge with insights that speak directly, forcefully.Reading the book also made me realize exactly how little has changed over the past five decades since Naipaul first journeyed in India.
It is tragic that when the book was published, it was seen to portray India in an unsavory light, and therefore quickly banned.
This book is beautiful but also makes me really personally sad for VS Naipaul?
His scatological horror conception of India, though it's pretty arresting and incisive re: postcolonial trauma and personal self-loathing and horror, also made this a difficult book to get through, though I think worth it in the end.
But I'm not sure I'd recommend this to anyone as like--a great entry into What Is Good About VSN.Hits: "A Garland on my Pillow," "The Village of the Dubes," "Degree," and the suffocating opening.
Okay, so Naipaul is at best an arch miserablist, but I had forgotten just how negative and mean he is about Indians and the whole Indian experience.
However the middle section dealing with his time in Kashmir is wonderfully arch, with the previously-forgotten Aziz an amazingly Falstaffian character, simultaneously protecting the tourists, whilst fleecing them at every opportunity.
Also, I presume had I bothered reading this whilst I was actually doing my Post-Colonial Literature coursework, I might have done slightly better than a Desmond because there's plenty of theoretical meat concerning the Indian reaction and absorbtion to the English (and vice versa) to get your teeth into.
I read this while I visited India, and read about the Bhagirath only a few days after experiencing it in Delhi. The book is realistic but sympathetic. Naipaul sought to explore his roots, and warns anyone undertaking such a venture that roots, by their nature, grow in a particular environment. What is holy at the centre (bathing in the Ganges, rotted fish in Norway or Vegemite in Australia) may be disgusting to the naïve objectivity of the outsider.
a brutal criticism of India. probably very true too at the same time... the first time i've been exposed to Naipaul's opinions and i'm not sure i liked it all. in the end when he visits his grandfather's village, Naipaul sounds very like the Indian he has been loathing throughout the book. he has been very honest to say the least
i felt like I was trully travelling in india in the early 1970s...some of Naipauls encounters draw similarities with mine! he explains the modern Indian psyche very well!
Naipaul's arrogance drove me crazy. I was hoping for a portrait of India, instead I got a portrait of an arrogant, racist, insufferable man.
Naipaul writes with such contempt at times that I feel I might dislike him as a person, but as a writer --oh the depth of his thoughts and layering of personal/historical/analysis- I'm caught up in his mind and he's running through my mind and it feels deep and personal and true.
His contempt for others is woven with moments of tenderness and self-reflection "I am the monster, " he says, and I agree "I am the monster." And we are.In "An Area of Darkness," there is no peace with India, but there is a respect.
India he says is not one thing, and neither is Naipaul.
He spoke of his family, his upbringing on the island of Trinidad, his family's Indian heritage, all as though he were an alien who was making observations and taking notes to report back to his home planet ("species seem to believe in many gods.....caste system...certain cultural values differ from fellow inhabitants of the island...").As his journey progressed, for it was a journey on several levels, he became, if not more emotionally involved, at least interested.
He called in the clerk who took down his dictation to solve the problem."The secretary has many letters to write and she is backed up, so sorry.""What do you mean?
Naipaul offers a unique perspective of worlds beyond worlds.
As an Indian raised in Trinidad and educated in the UK, he planned a tour of his "homeland" that gives us the impressions of an outsider often invisible as an outsider to the people among whom he moves.
Of course the India of over a half century ago is different from today's, but in these pages we learn a lot about what it means to be human and about what we take for granted as "human" that is more cultural.
The episode at the end, when he visits his forebears' village, is hauntingly moving and, like the rest of the book, not quite what we expect!
As an Indian from a fellow colonial outpost, Naipaul is highly interested in the legacy of the British Raj. The author reckons that the British could have saved a civilization in decline, but they were too insular, too ensconced in the arrogant insecurity of an empire in its prime, too interested in creating an image of themselves as the 'stern Victorians', and lastly, too eager to get up and get out.
India's history, Naipaul notes, is precisely this history of being plundered and looted by invaders)The first chapter of the 3rd section of the book opens with one of the most scathing critiques of Indian art and literature that I have ever read, and the author manages to make a point that I myself had been wondering about for some time now.
It is not uncommon to find books overflowing with effusive praise about India.
But being an India, a patriotic one at that, I do know sometimes the praise is hollow.
India is a land of contrasts and complexities that one book cannot adequately describe.
This book is representative, sure, but it fails to encompass the whole nature of India.
There is a distinct self awareness in the bearing of India, a result of being a society in transition for centuries.
Naipaul is unapologetic about his views on India, his alienation from the culture of his ancestors.
So what is India?
But some observations about India struck me deeply.
After reading so much of his later stuff, it's a relief to turn to his earlier work, when he was funnier, more enthusiastic and more expansive.
The writing and the thinking aren't as tightly controlled, which risks melodrama.
I was surprised when Naipaul visited his ancestral village and found out they were indeed Brahmin, as I had been sure that his grandparents had switched caste somewhere on their way to Trinidad.There's a hysteria at the edges of this book, a barely-contained shock at the squalor, the hypocrisy, and the blank idiocy he encounters, but this is still (he was only thirty when he wrote this) somewhat balanced by his Mr. Biswas style affection for the little canoe-paddlers of the world.
I enjoyed the writer's in depth experiential record which defies categorisation.
In particular his descriptions of the people he comes across are a delight.
Verging on caricature, they do not quite tip over - there is usually some genuine warmth in Naipaul's response, even if it is frustration.While he is often aghast at the India (1963/4) Naipaul encounters which is so unlike the Indian experience of his homeland, Trinidad, by the end of the account he has achieved an equilibrium.For this reader the travelogue's strength, with its many, acutely perceptive insights, hinged on how much emotionally was at stake for Naipaul.
This could not be a better introduction to indescribable India.
V.S. Naipaul's first trip to India -- he's appalled by the filth, poverty, etc. etc. -- quite funny in parts, like when he's trying not to overpay Kashmiri tour guides. In the years since he mellowed out, and also India's socio-economic situation changed considerably. But it's entertaining to catch him here in his younger days. He's self-aware enough to find the humor in his constant disgust/snobbery/irritation, and he's good at choosing just the right details to convey the sense of a place. You really can't go home.
A year spent in India in the early 60's, by Naipaul - born in Trinidad to parents of Indian heritage - his grandfather emigrated to Trinidad.It is quite true Naipaul is incredibly negative, pessimistic and critical of India. It is difficult to expose anything he says as false however. Although negative, he has a wonderful writing style, and tells a good story, although some of his transitions leave me a bit bewildered, and there is a section of ranting I didn't grasp the point of in the middle there somewhere.
I read this book a long time ago, so it's hard to remember a lot of the details, but I remember being wowed by Naipaul's vivid descriptions of many areas of India. In this travel memoir, he journeys to his homeland for the first time (he's Indian but grew up in the West Indies). The book explores his conflicting feelings about his identity (belonging but not belonging at the same time). It's one of my favorite of Naipaul's books.
It's not possible to understand India with western lenses that Naipaul kept on during his first sojourn to India and ended up labelling it, wrongly in my opinion, as an area of darkness.When Naipaul visited India again during emergency few years later and wrote the second book of this trilogy, he saw the country in a different light but still could not understand the conflicted society where everybody was out fighting the system whether these were Naxal revolutionaries or Hindu fundamentalists or Muslim gang lords.
A great travelogue of a powerful and insightful writer returning to the country of his heritage. I find the Naipaul's greatest contribution to the world has been his travel books. His sharp observations and ability quickly place his surroundings within history, politics and culture cuts through a dozen visits I could make to the same location to get the same learning.
