https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49750.An_Abundance_of_Katherines
Things that I was sick of by the end of this book:1. Anagrams and tangents2. Use of the words jewfro, fug, fugger, fugging, kafir3. Colin's whining--actually, Colin in general4. Katherines
This was by far the worst experience I've ever had reading a John Green book.
I really always enjoy his writing and humor, but this one just didn't do anything for me.I don't think the book was horrible, but it couldn't hold my attention too long so I was happy it was very short.
She wasn't annoying like Colin, but I just found myself thinking they would hook up and that's it.To me this book was just bland.
Usually I feel lots of emotions when reading one of John's books, but with this one I felt nothing but boredom.
____________________________________________  “Books are the ultimate Dumpees: put them down and they’ll wait for you forever; pay attention to them and they always love you back.”   ____________________________________________ 2 DISAPPOINTING STARS! You can find the full review and more about this book on my blog!You don't know what expectations I had about this book.I have read other John Green's book like Looking for Alaska and The Fault in our Stars and really liked them especially the first
You can find the full review and more about this book on my blog!You don't know what expectations I had about this book.I have read other John Green's book like Looking for Alaska and The Fault in our Stars and really liked them especially the first one,also the hype about this book is insane so I thought why not.Guess I thought wrong.This book sure contains the marvel of John Green's smart writing,and it is so realatable,especially if you are a nerdy teen with tumblr,and that's smart and unique in a way,and I gave this book 2 stars just because of that.In the other hand it is boring,like ultimately boring.First I thought the idea with dating only girls named Katherine would be interesting or fun,but it turned out to be so dull and I really thought of not finishing this book.The only part of the book I did like was the ending and the famous John Green tumblr-ish positive message and to be honest was good.I really wanted to like this book.____________________________________________
That's nerdy and chic, and in no way like my last protagonist's obsession with famous last words."John picked up the letters, rearranging them in his head: 'Hem, arrow, hero.
I'd rather philosophize on Venn diagrams of octopi and dogs.'Putting the letters down, he paced the floor, dialogue and plot points bombarding his head like unformed constellations.
Quirky enough to get his jokes, but won't overshadow the main character, which is in no way like me.
That's not like Pudge and Colonel's emotional journey to find Alaska at all!'John laughed, clapped his hands together and sat down in front of his laptop.
I tried. I really did, believe me! But I can't do it, it's boring, it has no plot whatsoever and I don't like any of the characters. I'm not going to torture myself..
As a YA author, I'd heard the name "John Green" whispered in the YA wind for months, but I'd never picked up one of his books until I read a synopsis for AN ABUNDANCE OF KATHERINES online.
Even with flashbacks, the pacing never flagged, and though it wasn't the world's most unpredictable plot, I was never bored.The real charm in this book is both the characters -- larger than life, quirky people who don't quite fit into society -- and the dialog.
In John Green's hands, dialog is a weapon .
Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read.
Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement.
He doesn’t do drugs, his parents aren’t divorced, and he’s suffered no traumas unless you count being dumped by a slew (okay, nineteen) of girls named Katherine.
Colin has always been considered a ‘child prodigy’ and he’s thinking that maybe that isn’t enough to ‘matter’ or to make a mark on the world.
But, I’m learning to fight my biases… it’s one of those mid life crisis goals.
That was hard to swallow, I’m sure there are towns named that and all, but I’m taking baby steps here) Colin has many Eureka moments in Gutshot and each one makes me love him more.
ME MEO ENCIMA.Tenemos a Hassan, el mejor amigo de Colin, que aunque es UN intento de incluir algo diferente e intentar normalizarlo (es musulmán), se convierte en un personaje que vuelve a ser un plagio del resto de personajes secundarios de John Green y además se convierte en un cliché gigante, utilizando su cultura y religión para hacer la inmensa mayoría de sus chistes.
La trama no es clara (si es que podemos encontrarla), el hecho de incluir el teorema es absurdo porque no contribuye en nada, ni a los personajes ni a la historia, y en general, no hay nada que contar.
But it is Colin Singleton's life immediately after his graduation from high school.Given Colin's history with girls, you might not be surprised that John Green chose to name his second novel An Abundance of Katherines.
Thus, Colin begins to create a theorem of love in his attempt to understand his own rocky love life.Most of my friends who have read this book and Green's first novel Looking for Alaska agree that his second novel is not as compelling a read.
The "real" math behind Colin's theorem appears in the back of the book in an appendix and Green even has a website where you can use the theorem for your own relationships (if it doesn't crash your computer).
Had I been reading this on paper instead of my computer, it probably would have gone into the fireplace here: "She was incredibly hot--in that popular-girl-with-bleached-teeth-and-anorexia kind of way, which was Colin's least favorite way of being hot." And if somehow it had survived that initial immolation, I definitely would have shredded it for birdcage fodder (and I don't even own a bird!) here: "She looked prettier than she ever had before--Colin always preferred girls without makeup."This book was everything I don't like about John Green.
Basically this is the platonic ideal of John Green books.
Well, I enjoyed this one much more than I was expecting!
I read Green's Looking For Alaska and thought it was one of the best young adult novels I have ever read SO I was expecting this book to measure up to a higher standard.
It all just seemed a bit OCD and irrational to me, and it almost felt like he was trying too hard to come up with a unique idea for his sophomore novel.3) I was disappointed because I found huge chunks of the book to be pretty boring.
Katherines isn't horrible but I definitely would not go out of my way to recommend it and would suggest that you read Looking For Alaska instead.
There's so much John Green-ness in this book, I love it :)1. Love the footnotes2. Love Hassan3. Love dialogue4. Love the storyFuggin right.Check out my video review!
Our MC, Colin is struggling with two things: understanding his recent breakup and wanting to matter in the world.
Being a prodigy (not a genius!) he believes that he can create a formula that will be able to predict how long any given relationship will last by inputting certain factors.
Soon he starts to realize that maybe he had been looking at all of them in that same way.What resonated most with me about this story wasn’t the fact that Colin bemoaned his previous romances, but the fact that he wanted to matter; he wanted to contribute something to this world.
But then, I’m the kind of girl who cracks up at things that normal people don’t find even remotely funny so maybe there’s something wrong with me and not the book.AAoK has a nerdy, heartbroken hero (irritating), some cussing in Arabic (gets taxing after a while), jokes about man-boobs and fractured balls (not really my idea of humor), a lot of math (scary) that strangely looks interesting (I wouldn’t know for sure since I skipped those parts).Colin really got on my nerves.
Whining and theorem-making are not exactly things I’m fond of, and that’s all Colin does (in addition to spewing out random facts).
NOBODY TALKS LIKE THAT IN REAL LIFE.
At least not all the time.
Most YA readers see John Green as the best author ever, but his books are not that unique and his characters are the same with a few minor tweaks.
I just don't get the hype.However, there were some memorable parts of this book that makes it unique: Tangents and footnotes.
Instead, this just wasted my time.
I could have been reading a book more enjoyable than this one during my break.
I guess I expected so much but got a mediocre, predictable read from an author who is labelled as one of the best in YA.
I'm a huge John Green fan, so you can see why this is problematic.The Albuquerque library system is pretty bad.
Like Sarah Dessen, most of his protagonists are the same character with different hobbies and quirks.
While you may be unable to get a date with that hot, unattainable girl, Colin, Miles, and Quentin have dated enough hot girls to last you a lifetime -- or at least until John Green writes another book.His books are full of double standards.
Not only was I disappointed with the 3rd person narration, but I also felt like Colin lacked a soul.
We knew that Colin was going to end up with Lindsey.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I may be one thousand years old, but I still love John Green books. I read An Abundance of Katherines before I even knew who John Green was. Remember - I’m 1,000, so cut me some slack people! Over the past several years it has come to my attention that almost everyone else considers this to be the lesser of all of the Green works, which had me questioning my mental state (or whether or not I was intoxicated) the first time I read this
(*hooooooark* Ugh – just looking at that math gives me dry heaves)in order to be able to predict who will be the dumper (or dumpee) in any relationship and when said relationship will end is not the most exciting story to be told.And maybe Colin was a sitzpinkling anagramming weirdo who moped around feeling miserable about getting dumped by the umpteenth Katherine in his life, but without him I would have never had a chance to meet Hassan.
I love this book unapologetically and it’s still my favorite John Green – even if I’m the only one who feels that way.
1,5 stars just because I enjoyed the first 40 pages and because I can't help loving John Green.Okay if this book was like 500 pages long I would have quit.
This is the second time I've read Green and I cannot say I was impressed with this one.
I come across a book I like, I fall in love with the author and then I just go on to read other books by the same author.
Big mistake, but I never learn.
And it most certainly didn't help me overcome my Math phobia.
nah i laughed like a bull and almost choked on my water  -_-But really, I'm about a third of the way through and I honestly have no idea what's going on.NO IDEA.......NADAZILCHZEROBecause all there was in this book, was a love sick boy who just couldn't get his damn feelings in check.
And for some damn reason, THIS MC ONLY DATES GIRLS WHO GO BY THE NAME, KATHERINE.
-_-Uh......SAY WHAAAA?????!!!!Yeah, you could probably already tell by the title of this book.So of course, this book starts off with him breaking up with his girlfriend, Katherine.
Then I'm going to walk away from it forever and not look back once.An Abundance of Katherines follows Collin Singleton, who has a very specific type of dream girl.
Well, I guess not really since he only really likes girls named Katherine.
I have no idea why they did this all of a sudden but the trip didn't make me like his character anymore than I originally did.Yes, he sees and learns new things.
I also didn't like that I kept changing this review so many times.
If you are familiar with John Green, you probably already know his winning formula: a nerdy nice guy with a funny side-kick best friend, meets and falls in love with a mysterious popular but ultimately unhappy girl, then some kind of road trip ensues during which a life altering realization is achieved.
Only this time the nerdy guy (Colin) is not that endearing (unlike Miles in "Looking For Alaska" or Quentin in "Paper Town"), the funny side-kick (Hassan) is not that funny, and the mysterious girl is not that mysterious or witty (compare Lindsey to Alaska and Margo).
"An Abundance of Katherines" is a decent read, just not as good as other John Green's books.Reading challenge: #1 - A
Check out this audiobook! I received a hard-disc copy of this audiobook for free in exchange for my honest opinion. Full review to come. 3 of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below. I think listening to this book as an audiobook really enhanced my experience while indulging in the story. Because of that, I would really like to thank Brilliance Audio for sending me a copy of the audiobook, it made me enjoy the book so much more than I would've if I had physically the book. My favori
I think listening to this book as an audiobook really enhanced my experience while indulging in the story.
Because of that, I would really like to thank Brilliance Audio for sending me a copy of the audiobook, it made me enjoy the book so much more than I would've if I had physically the book.
Overall, I really liked the "finding yourself" moral/theme that the book took (I think by now that it's time that I realize that the "finding yourself" story is John Green's specialty).
It's not my favorite John Green book, but it was worth the listen/read!
I think I already said this in a review but I might just need a break from young adult fiction, because everyone I know who reads YA raved about this novel and I read it from cover to cover without once really engaging, and with far too many inward groans and eye-rolls.I mean, for starters, the quirky teenaged characters were, um, very quirky.
And hey, I LOVE Joss Whedon but it's a different animal altogether when you're reading it.
And by "different animal" I mean "sort of annoying after a while".
I'm not seventeen so these messages are, well, I'm a little old for them.
This book is ABSURD. The main character is some quirky prodigy kid who gets dumped by girls named Katherines. He goes on about some non-sense theory who might help him predict future relationships. He is smart, loves anagrams, and uses words no other teenager has ever heard of. You know what?
“How do you just stop being terrified of getting left behind and ending up by yourself forever and not meaning anything to the world?”Actual Rating: 3.5 starsMy first John Green book!Everyone has a type, a distinct quality or feature we are always looking for in a potential partner. Meet child prodigy Colin Singleton. He liked girls named Katherine. Not Catherine, Cathy, Kathy, Katrina, Kat, Cat, or any other variant. K-A-T-H-E-R-I-N-E.John Green’s  An Abundance of Katherines  tells the story of
tells the story of Colin Singleton, a boy who’s been dumped by nineteen Katherines, leading him to work on what he called the Theorem of Underlying Katherine Predictability, in which he aimed to foresee his future relationships.
I’ve been wooing math for years, but it never loved me back!The plot was very unique.
I’ve never read any contemporary romance like it.
Learning something new every time I read is something I enjoy immensely!The characters weren’t flat and it’s the aspect of the story that I liked best.
Colin was the kind of young man I rarely read about in books these days.
One of my roommates is a huge John Green fan, and after first introducing me to the series of videos he does with his brother (search "vlogbrothers" on Youtube or just watch this one), she told me that I should probably read some of his books.
And since I've been watching Vlogbrothers videos for at least two months now, it felt less like I was was reading some random book and more like I was reading something written by someone I actually knew.
And if that socially awkward former child prodigy happens to have dated (and been dumped by) eighteen girls named Katherine and insists at one point "Love is graphable!", so much the better.
Even John Green can't get foreign languages right *sigh in disappointment*
This book didn't really have much of a plot apart from focusing on Colin and so I just didn't like it.
Colin also felt very similar to John Green's other male protagonists.
I think characters are John Greens downfall.
John Green does have a way with words, I just don't think he properly utilised that talent with this book.
Another thing I didn't like was the way some of the characters were described.
I don't know whether that was down to John Green's writing or Colin's perception of them but I found it distasteful (particularly the way Hassan and a waitress were described).
I know that, I get that, I apologize to all whose lives I've destroyed with my hatredy.But, man, I did NOT like this book.I'm going to start by saying that from the outset of Colin's theory of dumpativity, I understood - and thought he would, too...like, immediately - that these things only work in reverse.
But instead of listing my many complaints, I'm going to link this review I found moments ago because, seriously, I totally thought I wrote it.
That is precisely what I was about to say!" so instead of duplicating the effort, just read her thoughts and know that my thoughts ran parallel.
