https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37730.Smart_Women
Basically, these are women who have cut themselves off from the priorities their mothers saw as fundamental, who took their college education more seriously (not just to meet Eligible Men) and who, finding themselves in stifling marriages (who often married the Wrong Man) embark on careers and a path of self-discovery, a search for the self that to modern, post-feminist women may at times seem rather similar to the search that control the lives of teens and not adults.
So these are women managing their lives and yet being anything but 'smart.' That's the point of the title, and the storyline.We've two adult leads, Margo and B.B (a.k.a Francine) and two girl teens, their daughters, Michelle (17) and Sara (13) respectively.
I own a tattered, aging copy of this book that I swiped from my mother as a teenager. This is one of those that I consider a "comfort book".Growing up, I read a LOT of Judy Blume...the Superfudge, the Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing..Blubber..Are You There God, it's Me, Margaret..an 80s childhood simply wasn't complete without her.This is one of her novels for grown-ups..and it's great. Sad and touching, but fun and light at the same time.
I remember reading "Are you there, God, It's me Margaret?" Which was such a pivotal book in my youth.
So, naturally, all these years later, I thought I would love to read the only book I hadn't read by my once-favorite author.
One written many years ago, but would fulfill my "I've read every book by this author" card.
Margo, the lead character was not very likable and loved her hot tub more than her ingrate children.
I suppose Soooo many other authors ive read since Judy Blume's Hay-Day have since taken her place in my life.
This book was not about any smart women.
It was about stupid women and their stupid mistakes.
The main character is pitiful and we're supposed to feel sorry for her since she's all on her own and going through a divorce but I just couldn't go there.
She made stupid decision which let to obvious consequences and a no-big-surprise-there divorce.
Loved Judy Blume's books as a kid and I'll continue to read them to my children.
She should have stuck to the kid books too.
This one made me want to tear my hair out and take the women out for a stiff drink and a stern talking to.
Although none of the women in this book ever actually prove to be very smart, they are normal, real women with great stories and personalities. I love this book, just like all Judy Blume books. Everything feels so honest and real. I love the many voices and points of view of all the characters and how they all tangle together. Great book.
It's been a really long time since I've read a book by Judy Blume. I've also read very few of her adult books. This was nice. It felt nostalgic, in the writing style and the characters and the setting. There was something comforting about it. I also thought that all of the characters (the adults, at least) were awful people, especially when it came to parenting, but I like reading about awful people, so it was fun.
This was a different POV take on a lot of characters.
I enjoyed the different POV and how what actually comes out of your mouth is rarely what you feel.
I think A lot of Margo's behavior was more than honest.
I think a lot of divorced woman hide their sex lives, boyfriends and tend to behave for the benefit of the kids.
So, what I appreciated about Margo was that she was out for herself in a lot of ways.
she and Andrew resist each other, I think Margo resisted more, eventually they get together.
All of them, every single one, both main and minor characters, were absolutely horrible people, who were incredibly miserable in their amoral, meaningless lives.
The main characters were selfish and self-absorbed, failing as parents in every possible way.
Their children were rebellious, undisciplined, and headed for equally meaningless, destructive lives.
Throughout the book feminism was hailed (it was set in 1980ish), but the women were just plain miserable!
Middle-aged, divorced, cheated-on, cynical...yet they were destructively sleeping around with every half-attractive man they met (by the dozen), only to be discarded every morning-after, and then spouting off about how horrible and unreliable men are.
My first Judy Blume book written for adults!
While spontaneously updating Goodreads with all the Judy Blume books I'd read in my youth, I saw that I'd read fourteen in total, and figured I'd give the adult ones a try now that I'm, you know, an adult.
This was an easy read, and it brought me back to reading Judy Blume books in childhood, as the writing style hadn't changed (when I was young I remember most noticing her plentiful use of ellipses in dialogue, and the way she often referred to items solely by their brand).
great grown up judy blume read. reminiscent of adolscent judy blume reads. if you liked her as a teen, you'll love her more as an adult.
Judy Blume has a special way about her writing that is so readable. She also captures humans, particularly women, in a way that is real. Even if you can't personally relate to their situations, Blume characters always have something about them with which you can understand. There may be no author out there today that just captures the complexity of being female. While this was not my favorite of her books, I enjoyed it quite a lot.
Oh Judy Blume. Seriously? What happened to the author I LOVED as a kid. To the energy and enthusiasm? This was just dreadful. I got to page 200 and then said to myself - why am I continuing to read this? It's about women my age who are all divorced and struggling and starting over. But it's written with so many stereotypes and so little energy. Blech.
3.5 stars--reminded me of an 80s soap opera.
How wonderful that the same Judy Blume who helped us make sense of adolescence is there to provide adulthood insight as well!
While this could be written off as a simple romance novel, the story covered a surprising amount of ground: in fact, one of the most compelling aspects of the book was its exploration of pressures and responsibilities women bear from their careers, children, parents, and society--and their sometimes tragic effects.
Finally, to add true Judy Blume authenticity, a girl even gets her first period.
I look forward to reading more of Blume's adult novels.
I enjoyed this book for the complexity of the characters.
I've seen a few reviews complaining the women in the book are not smart.
Stuart, Michelle and Sarah have very definite opinions about their parents' behavior and choices.
It is very clear how those choices impact the kids' behavior and relationships both in the home and with outsiders.
It is also sadly evident that the children are all looking for something they feel they are not getting at home.All told, I enjoyed this book for the story.
2.5 STARS"Margo and B.B. are each divorced, and each is trying to reinvent her life in Colorado-while their respective teenage daughters look on with a mixture of humor and horror.
But even smart women sometimes have a lot to learn-and they will, when B.B.'s ex-husband moves in next door to Margo..." (From Amazon) Once I reached about 14 I had read most of Blume's books and moved on to the adult fiction.
I love her children and teen books so thought I would automatically love these ones.
Smart Women seemed not so smart.
I was not interested in the storyline and the characters were a bit wooden.
Ahh Judy Blume...she's the reason I started recreational reading as a kid and why my 13 year old daughter does today.
The book is in 4 voices: 2 adults: BB and Margo and 2 teens: Michelle and Sara.
It's a story of love the second time around and the tumultuous relationship between mother and teenage daughter.
It places my current challenges w/ my daughter into a broader spectrum and gives me insight on her perspective as well.
What a nice surprise for me on a book that I thought I was buying for my daughter.
I love Judy Blume!! I grew up reading her young adult novels. I love that she has a couple of adult books, but I wish she had more. I liked the book, I love her writing style. I just kind of wish she would have let us see inside Andrew's head (3rd person). I really wanted to hear his personal take on everything. As far as B.B, I liked her and I wish everything would have worked a little more in her favor. For all my lady friends, my ex-husband is off limits!!
great book...good ending...every experience you could imagine a mother, teenager and ex-wife could might go through.
I don't always have to have a plot driven book, but it felt like this one dragged because the reader couldn't hold on to a point.
At the beginning of the book, I really found Margo and Andrew's banter very funny (especially in the hot tub), but they lost the banter until the very end.
Conversation I loved: "I like the way you look in glasses," Andrew said."I'm nearsighted," Margo explained.
I cried at the end when Andrew said, "And you can handle this [having Sara]?" he asked.
Reading the title and the description of the book, I was intrigued, especially because I loved Judy Blume's children's books and more recently her adult book, "In the Unlikely Event".
I was a young adult in the early 80's so I could relate to the time, if not the age or life experience of the characters.
They were supposed to be strong, independent, SMART women who, after getting divorced, work to re-invent themselves.
B.B.'s character, not surprisingly, suffered a mental breakdown when she could no longer control her life and environment after working so hard to do so.
I have real issues with plots where the problems can been solved had the characters actually TALKED to each other instead of pouring pages of inner monologue wondering what in the world they should do!?
But honestly, if they were such "smart women" they would've realized that their issues weren't with needing a MAN in their lives, but rather the lack of not knowing what they actually want.
The entire plot line of this book reminded me of The Sims *cue pixelated hot tub movements* and I will never, ever be able to get that out of my head.
As someone who grew up reading Judy Blume, it's nice that she has a few adult novels to read later in life.
This book was very cute and enjoyable to read.
Judy Blume is not necessarily suspenseful in her writing but she writes stories in a way that makes you wonder how these characters will end up.
I will say I can usually guess a lot of the chick lit book's story lines that I read but this one threw a couple curve-balls that I did not see coming which I found very refreshing.
This was a cute read and I would recommend to anyone who doesn't want to have to think much but still keeps you hooked,
I love Judy Blume.
Her books are like brain candy, and I need brain candy sometimes.
I did not love this book, but I enjoyed it.
The only character who was intriguing to me was BB (Francine), and I did not get to spend enough time with her, especially when her story line took a turn.
I wanted more of Francine's story.
I wanted the details of "that day" and the aftermath, that included the end of her marriage.
The title isn't really representative of the story Ms. Blume tells of family dynamics in blended families.
As a huge fan of her work for kids, I was very disappointed with this. Her characters were often unlikable in a 2-dimensional way, especially the adults. But even her teenagers were generally unimpressive. Only the youngest, a 12-year-old, had any believable depth. I do NOT recommend this book at all.That said, I did read an excerpt from another of her adult books, Wifey, and that immediately had more potential in just the few pages I read. If you're going to check out one of her adult books, start there I think.

Had it’s slow parts, but I had to read a Blume book as a grown up and so glad i did. I see the reviiews complaining that the title isn’t misleading, these women are actually dumb. While accurate, I think that’s the point, they made stupid decisions selfishly and simply because that was following the times, and mostly with disastrous results. Blume is great with coming of age stories, now we know kids aren’t the only ones with growing to do
I love Judy Blume, as a kid and an adult. This book was such a great story and shows how someone can be going through something on the inside but to most of the world you would never know it. I loved the story of Margo and Andrew but wanted to strangle Margo's daughter Michelle so many times. Easy to read and keeps you interested!
This is probably a 3.5 for me but I love Judy Blume so I rounded up - There wasn't really anything I disliked about it but nothing that really gripped me either. It's more of a daily life book than plot-driven and the characters are interesting and she does a nice job of keeping their speaking style and thought processes unique (except Andrew oddly enough).
My first re-read of this novel in 20 years! I still love it as much as I did when I read it as a teenager, and it is worth reading even given how archaic it is, written as it was pre-Reagan and pre-AIDS. I think it has lessons about communicating in relationships, whether with a significant other or child or parent.
