https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6261961-labor-day
His life takes a turn on the Thursday before Labor Day, when a bleeding man approaches Henry while he is in a store with his mother, and asks for help.Joyce Maynard - from NY MagazineHenry’s coming-of-age journey includes lessons on throwing a baseball, learning how to make a perfect pie crust, exposure to sexuality, his own and others’, admiration, jealousy, selfishness, selflessness, love and betrayal.
Maynard captured the essence of that curious time of life and adds a morally thoughtful dimension that gives added heft to her story.Kate Winslet and Josh Brolin in the film - image from Cmfilmcommentary.comI ripped through this book in near record time.
I'm a recent fan of Joyce Maynard and just want to read all of her books now.
The movie came out, and I never watched it, because I wanted to read the book first.
Labor Day tells the story of one long, steamy Labor Day weekend told from the point of view of Henry.
It's the story of longing, and wanting to be loved.
Henry is 13 and lives with his mother.
And also, how the smallest consequences can change entire lives of people.This was quite the slow, sultry read.
While I did like this one, I found her book After Her a much more captivating read.
I've met Ms Maynard too late in my life!This story would have been better for me, had I not watched the movie first.
But this is okay with me, it just changed the route to get to the ending, in a way.The author added a handful of pages at the end, entitled “Don’t Try This at Home: How I Came to Write This Novel”.
I like these added bits of gold, when the author gives their back story.
What I gleaned from this is that Joyce is a trusting soul, likes to see the best in people and likes to see a story unfold, whether she has weighed up every little pro and con there could be - or not.
When finally I reached the denouement I realized that I held in my hands a beautiful, evocative gem, which had brought me to tears.Labor Day is the tale of a fourteen year old boy, Henry, who lives in isolation with his long-divorced, emotionally fragile mother.
She has vividly portrayed the emotions of all her characters,especially those of this adolescent boy on the threshhold of maturity and sexual awakening.This was the first book that I have read by the uniquely talented Joyce Maynard.
If people saw the movie....Even 'with' a talented cast.., it's not nearly as good as the book!!!!
About at the half way point if asked, I would have rated the book 4 stars.
5 huge and well deserved stars is the rating I am giving this book.Henry is thirteen years old.
He lives with his somewhat dysfunctional mother, Adele.
But as I progressed through the book, it became obvious that her only true diagnosis was a broken heart.
We learn Frank’s story and you can’t help but fall in love with him.
We learn Adele’s past, and the pain she has endured.
A time when he was struggling with sexual awareness, living a somewhat lonely and awkward existence with his mother, and struggling with his relationship with his own father.
A solid enjoyable read.
I enjoyed the storyline, who cares if a little unbelievable.
It was good to have the story told from the point of view of 13 year old Henry, even if some of that pre pubescent teenage musings got a little awkward.
I enjoyed listening to the audiobook, it was a simple easy to follow story and now I'll just have to force myself to watch the movie...hello Josh Brolin ;) lol
It must be handled delicately and involves a little magic.
Such magic is present when a stranger who also happens to be an escaped convict lands in the house of a 13 year old self-described "loser" and his agoraphobic mother, both of whom could use a great deal of help.
If the setup sounds a little too facile, the execution really is more complicated.
Other reviews have said this is told from the point of view of that 13 year old, but it really is told from the point of view of that boy as an adult.
Very good book..I hope the movie is as well done....
It is completely pretentious to write an entire book with a ton of dialogue and NOT use proper punctuation to indicate who is speaking and who is having inner dialogue.
I actually read the reading guide questions, interview with the author (which was disturbing) and the prologue of another book of her's and didn't crack open the book proper.
I'm reading this for a book/movie club, where we read the book and then see the movie to determine which medium worked better for the story.
Unless the movie is God-awful, it HAS to be better than the book.
I hadn't read Maynard and upon seeing this audiobook at the library it called to me.Henry, the narrator of this novel, remembers the events of the Labor Day long weekend, 1987, when his mother and he took home an injured man, named Frank.
His father remarried and Henry sees him once or twice a week.Maynard's writing was very atmospheric.
Frank was quite the man, maybe a bit too good to be true (if I keep my cynical hat on), but somehow I bought it, or better said, I allowed Maynard's writing and Wilson Bethel's beautiful narration to transport me, and I appreciate that.A gorgeous little book!
I'm talking about finding a bleeding convict and taking him home with you.
America!Anyway.He's all like, (okay, imagine a sexy deep voice here)  I need to ask you to take me up to your bedroom, Adele, he said.
Meanwhile she is like completely passive and also asking him to fuck her with her eyes.And then, of course, he has to feed her, right?
I mean, it's not like he murdered his wife or anything, right?
This guy killed his wife."Also, you know the kid's an asshole.
You know he'd rat out his mother and destroy her because he's just like that.
I knew I had to read this book after seeing the trailer to the movie. And now that I have read this beautifully written novel I hope the movie does it justice.I watched the movie last night and although I enjoyed it very much I enjoyed the book more!
Henry's mother is a nervous, anti social woman and after many heart wrenching times in her life she decided going out in public is to hard and decides to stay home for good - seriously this is the way you are looking at life??
Then her and Frank begin to fall in love (in the time frame of 5 days and are going to get married?????
Seriously who gets married after 5 days of knowing someone?) and in reality that is all the book is about - there is no excitement and nothing as all kept me reading.
There are a few reasons why I listened to this book. 1) It’s called ‘Labor Day’ and I listened to it on the Labor Day. This one is actually more of a coincidence than an actual reason but let’s put it there anyway.2) It takes place in New Hampshire in early September, which is when I arrived in New Hampshire twelve years ago to spend a year there. This is the nostalgia reason.3) I suppose I’ll come clean and say it: the audiobook is read by Wilson Bethel who looks like this:I fancied the idea of
Little ever changes in their monotonous existence until that fateful weekend when Frank appears in their lives and it’s just like Adele to invite a possibly dangerous stranger into her house.As it turns out, Frank doesn’t seem to be dangerous and is quite possibly the best thing that could’ve happened to this tiny family.
It made Frank appear in my head fully fleshed out like book characters rarely do.I have also just learnt that this is being turned into a movie and Kate Winslet will play Adele.
Well written and mildly satisfying, Labor Day is a very quick read.
In fact, I read it just this afternoon after hiking.
A suspicious stranger, who turns out to be an escaped prisoner, approaches a young boy and his mother for a ride while they're out shopping.
They take him in, he offers to help around the house, and interesting bonds form.
The mother is your standard borderline character, suffering from depression and desiring isolation.
As nice (is that an insult?) as it all was, I can't help but feeling rather neutral about it.
Very easy read, delightful character development, and not too wordy. A love story wrapped in a coming of age story with a smidgen of a thriller. I might have the measurements a little mixed up, could be more of a thriller with a smidgen of a love story. ;-D
The lives of thirteen year old Henry Wheeler, a lonely outcast, and his mother Adele, an emotionally fragile , reclusive, and also lonely woman , are about to change as they risk showing kindness to a stranger with a secret past. Spanning 6 days including Labor Day , this is a love story and coming of age story, and most recently a movie with Kate Winslet and Josh Brollin. I especially like the last chapters which are beautifully written. Is it wrong to try and grasp a bit of happiness , given the rare opportunity ? hmmmm. 4 stars.
By the time I finished that book I had more respect for Maynard than for Salinger.
Labor Day is my first experience with her fiction and I found it hilarious, though it's not an intentionally funny book.
A convicted murderer (Frank) escapes a prison hospital and meets 13-year old Henry and his mother, Adele, at a Wal-Mart type store.
Then he says he makes the best chili in the world, and sure enough, Henry thinks later, while eating his chili and watching Frank feed his mother every bite, it is the best chili he's ever tasted.
What made me laugh was the narration of the 13-year old boy.
I had mixed feelings about this book.
You can understand Henry’s swinging emotions about the situation — after all, he’s still a child — and his mother’s ability to fall in love so easily.
Do we believe Frank’s story?
All that matters is that Adele believes it.Where the book really lost me was in the chapters following the climax of the novel.
I think way too much was said about the resolution, and the story would have been even more compact and powerful if that section had been cut into a single chapter.
Another wonderful book by Joyce Maynard written mostly from the point of a teenager.
Very well written and I’m sorry to be finished with it.
I listened to this book every chance I got and couldn’t wait to get back to it.
If this were a bookclub book I think there would be plenty to discuss.
As with her other book this felt like a true story.
I don’t want to include any spoilers so I won’t talk about the story.
But just know it’s a story I felt compelled o finish to see what would happen.
A young boys coming of age story.Two lost souls finding each other.A sweet,sad love story. Very well written. Wonderful characters,that stay in character. Just a good,solid book. I highly recommend it.
She felt everything too deeply, it was like the world was too much for her."This story details the momentous events that take place over the course of Labor Day weekend when Adele and her teenage son Henry, bring a fugitive into their homes and their lives.I literally just finished this book a few moments ago, and I am still such an emotional mess right now that I should probably have waited to write this review but I wanted it to be as fresh as possible.
And from that moment on, events tumble forward into such an unlikely scenario that the reader is drawn in and inevitably mesmerized by the unfolding moments.We see the story unfold gradually, however, as the narrator takes us back and forth, filling us in on the backstory of each of the characters, helping us understand the context in which we find ourselves.And then, almost like a slow crescendo, everything builds to the dramatic ending.That’s all I’m going to say about the plot, lest I spoil it for the readers.
To be fair, the last 60 or 70 pages are reasonably affecting, but everything leading up to that: pee yew.Narrated by 13-year-old Henry (who is prone to saying things like, "My body had been changing.
On the Thursday before Labor Day weekend, Adele takes Henry to a K-Mart-like store to buy him a pair of pants (the extent of their back-to-school shopping) and while she's wheeling the cart around, Henry stands by the magazines reading a Cosmopolitan and is approached by Frank, a 40-ish man wearing slippers whose leg and head are bleeding.
This story, which I easily devoured in a lazy day at home, is touching on so many levels.
Told through the eyes of a 13 year old boy, it's the story of five days when an escaped criminal comes to live with him and his mom, changing their lives forever.
Frank does just enough "bad guy" stuff to help them pass a lie detector test should the need ever arise, but mostly he brings both of these broken people out of their shells and into remembering what being loved and being a family is like.
This gentle story of love and hope is sure to be a hit.
I was shocked how much I enjoyed this book. When I first started to read it, I thought "three stars...It is ok, not great." As I progressed with the book, the author drew me into the characters so much, I actually felt myself having sympathy for the escaped prisoner and hoping he would get a second chance at life. Now that is some good writing!
Maynard does a very nice job pulling you into this story. At first I didn't know if this plot or narrator were believable but by the end you believe every word as the gospel truth. How can you dispute this characters experiences? Lovely story but heartbreaking at times. You might be surprised with how the author wraps it up. Nice, easy read.
Spoiler alert: I didn't like it.
I think it was slightly creepy to hear about a one-weekend stand through the eyes of a 13 year old son.
I also hope 13 year olds are not as naive as the one in the book.
I liked the mother character, but am not convinced it isn't because I know Kate Winslet is playing the character in the movie and she's so good!
I would have rather read a book from the mother's perspective that started with Labor Day weekend, then explored her life until his later parole.
In the beginning I really wanted to dislike this book. I look at this mother and think how could you put your child in this situation. But somehow, through all the cracks and flaws in this novel a beautiful & heartfelt story emerged. This is one of those novels that you have to lay your judgment aside and just get swept away in the world of the narrator. That is really the only way you will enjoy this piece. It is sad, borders on mental instability, but at the root of it all is love.
