https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18803640-h-is-for-hawk
The book is kind of a weird mixture of how the author dealt with the sudden death of her father by ‘shunning’ the world of academia that she was a part of in favor of training a notoriously difficult species of hawk and a mini-biography of T.H. White, best known for The Once and Future King, but who also wrote a book called Goshawk that chronicled his inept failure at attempting to train the same sort of bird (he was training a male though, which is smaller than the female, and it sounds like it’s possibly slightly less aggressive).
To say it won the Costa Book of the Year and to be given widespread praise and five-star reviews by many including being labelled as a ‘soaring triumph’ by the Telegraph, I expected something better, something much much better.To say that I didn’t rate it highly is something of an understatement.
But even knowing this I still can’t say that I enjoyed the book, not even a little bit.
I would have put it down, but I felt like it could have been one of those books which you only realize is good when you get to the very end.
As an eight-year-old, she would explore antiquarian bookstores with her father seeking out and devouring books on falconry.
Years later, after her father died without warning, she hoped to escape her grief by immersing herself fully into training a young goshawk she named Mabel.
White’s story was included because he had written a memoir called The Goshawk that Macdonald had read as a girl.
She made ties to his early life, to his famous book about Arthurian legend, to a would-be sadistic streak, and to his attempts to train Gos.If there is any weakness in H is for Hawk, it may be in her descriptions of nature.
The archaeology of grief is not ordered. It is more like earth under a spade, turning up things you had forgotten. Surprising things come to light: not simply memories, but states of mind, emotions, older ways of seeing the world. Helen MacDonald had suffered a great loss. In Anna Karenina, Tolstoy wrote,  Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way. Perhaps the same might be applied to grieving. I know for myself, during an acute period of grieving I was practi
Training a hawk was her way of connecting to her father.
While his writing had garnered him considerable wealth and fame, White’s personal inclinations and struggles are not so well known.
Both White and MacDonald used hawking as a way to step away from the world.
MacDonald recognizes the feeling of bloodlust in herself, as well.The original cover of The GoshawkWe are treated to a bit of falconry history, consideration being given to the class and gender elements.
MacDonald is gloriously adept at bringing you into her experience, leading you to wonder the things she wonders, to feel the pain of her struggle.
The bird appears as a primordial creature, an ancient, disappeared thing rising from the half-life of history: "the lucency of her pale, round eyes… the waxy, yellow skin about her Bakelite-black beak… half the time she seems as alien as a snake, a thing hammered of metal and scales and glass".Macdonald names the goshawk Mabel, from the Latin amabilis, meaning "lovable" or "dear”.
I certainly would not want to dissuade anyone from reading H is for Hawk, Cambridge professor Helen Macdonald's moving memoir of coping with the loss of her photojournalist father.
I'm not sure why Ms. Macdonald felt compelled to parallel her story with author TH White's, but each time she wheeled out his life story (which included his own very inexpert attempts at goshawkery), it served as a needless, soporific distraction from her own fascinating story.
Her life, I'm sure, is plenty bookworthy on its own without having to pad it with TH White's.
This is gorgeous nature writing and it is also a graceful memoir about bereavement. Helen Macdonald has managed to blend the two genres beautifully. When Helen's father died, her grief was so great that she decided to adopt a goshawk. Helen had loved hawks since childhood and had studied falconry, but this was her first time trying to train a goshawk. In real life, goshawks resemble sparrowhawks the way leopards resemble housecoats. Bigger, yes. But bulkier, bloodier, deadlier, scarier, and much
Helen had loved hawks since childhood and had studied falconry, but this was her first time trying to train a goshawk.
Helen became obsessed with her goshawk, spending hours with it and avoiding other humans.
While training her hawk, Helen also did a lot of reading about falconry, and especially appreciated a book by T.H. White called The Goshawk.
I had given little thought to hawks before reading Helen's memoir, but now I am fascinated by them.
That morning, I felt like the deer." "I put White's book on the shelves, make myself a cup of tea.
Now it feels different: we share our lives happily in all their separation.
“The hawk was everything I wanted to be: solitary, self-possessed, free from grief, and numb to the hurts of human life.""I’ve made a hawk part of a human life, and a human life part of a hawk’s, and it has made the hawk a million times more complicated and full of wonder to me.""Hunting with the hawk took me to the very edge of being a human. Then it took me past that place to somewhere I wasn’t human at all.”"I’d brought the hawk into my world and then I pretended I lived in hers. Now it feel
“The hawk was everything I wanted to be: solitary, self-possessed, free from grief, and numb to the hurts of human life.""I’ve made a hawk part of a human life, and a human life part of a hawk’s, and it has made the hawk a million times more complicated and full of wonder to me.""Hunting with the hawk took me to the very edge of being a human.
Then it took me past that place to somewhere I wasn’t human at all.”"I’d brought the hawk into my world and then I pretended I lived in hers.
Mabel - from Helen Macdonald's blog: http://fretmarks.blogspot.co.nz/
It records the author’s journey of a few years, starting with the unexpected death of her father, through the purchase and training of a hawk, to a new place of understanding about what and who humans are and what we need to live well.
So the thing is, you all share the same kind of pain, exactly the same, but you’re too busy experiencing total agony to feel anything other than completely alone.
From the Latin raptor, meaning ‘robber,’ from rapere, meaning ‘seize.’ Rob. Seize."Hawks apparently have a shamanic tradition of being able to cross borders that humans cannot and "were seen as messengers between this world and the next."The author trains a bird of prey, a falcon called Mabel.
In an original blend of memoir, biography and nature writing, Macdonald reveals how raising Mabel the goshawk helped her heal after her father’s sudden death.
Macdonald recognizes the ways in which, for White, too, flying a hawk was a means of exploring one’s own wild depths and testing the links between self and nature.If this was only a nature book, it would be a classic.
“Looking for goshawks is like looking for grace: it comes, but not often, and you don’t get to say when or how.” This wonderful book (a beautiful physical object, too) – ranks as one of my favorites of 2014.(H is for Hawk went head-to-head with 
This is probably a decent book and several of my smarty-farty friends have read it, but we all know I'm a moron and every time it is spammed recommended to me on my feed I can only picture this . . . .  ^^^^^Now that book I would totally read.
I loved learning that hawks with fierce names like Killer or Nazgul are thought to be shit hunters, but if you give them sweet little granny names like Opal or Mabel, they’ll be death on wings.
I loved falling in love with Mabel the goshawk and learning that she likes to play.
I loved everything about this book, so much that I got a copy for my personal library.–Kristen McQuinnfrom The Best Books We Read In January 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/02/01/riot-r...
____________________This award-winning book is part grief memoir, part narrative about hawk-training, part biography of T.H. White.
— Derek AttigFrom The Best Books We Read In March: https://bookriot.com/2015/04/01/riot-...
H is for Hawk could be H is for Hope or Heart or Home as all of these capture in some small way the essence of this beautiful book.
In an effort to heal her soul and regain a connection with her father she sets out to find and train a hawk.
Though it was interesting to learn more about White, who also had a penchant for hawks (though not the patience of Macdonald), I did want her to get on with her own story.
The hawk, named Mabel, lives in her spare room in Cambridge and is taken out into the countryside to hunt.
MacDonald describes her depression and her growing relationship with the hawk.
As a person who suffers from depression at times myself I suppose I don't enjoy reading about it.There are some beautifully written passages describing nature though at times there is straining for effect.MacDonald recovers from her depression aided by a trip to Maine.
I worry that people may decide to buy hawks to keep in their spare room and then get bored of them.
Like any trained academic, MacDonald’s impulse is to put what she is experiencing into context, which means that we will get small bits and pieces of the history of falconry’s place in the British national myth as surface evidence of her attempts at calm and rationality, it means that her sublimated anxiety comes out in worries over the fact that Hitler and racists sometimes liked falconry (indeed apparently TH White’s hawk came from the same man who provided hawks to SS leaders) (4) , it means that like any good analytic mind she has already half self-psychoanalyzed herself before she’s even begun (even if this does her no practical good.)This made every single time she interacted with Mabel ring all the truer and deeper to me, showing us how all of her other tools had failed her when it came to dealing with grief, and she was clinging to this hawk as the one thing that seemed to offer her refuge, and then understanding of her grief.
Instead of seeing the process as a war of wills like White did, which led to serious mistakes and struggles, she takes a more scientific and successful approach.
She indulges too much for my interests in psychobiography when she tries to account for why taming goshawk fulfills his need for mastering a wild thing and how the different characters in his fantasy epic fulfill a healthy sublimation of sorts by various aspects of his personality.
In my time with Mabel I’ve learned how you feel more human once you have known, even in your imagination, what it is like to be not.
In a more timid hand, the writing could have gone astray, or get bogged down as a scholarly work on the history of hawking, but no, it always remained personal with tons of interesting anecdotes.So how does it relate to T.
The mirrors were multilayered, with Bird versus Macdonald, and White versus Macdonald, and the mix was damn effective.It also helped that her use of language was always enjoyable, reliable, and insightful.I'm very happy to have gotten around to this, and I must thank Ilana for pushing me over the edge.
The writing itself will take your breathe away.After the loss of Helen's father --a very deep loss --she says:"I thought that to heal my hurt, I should flee to the wild.
I found myself curious to learn more -- 1) I spent an hour watching utubes on Falconry ---(beautiful photos from Nigel Hawkins) 2) I spent at least an hour in discussion with my husband with over this book.
(death, loss, healing, Goshawks, T.H. White, how adults leave impressions on children, personal growth, the value of balance with solitude in nature with a busy every day life) I sit here with MY BIRDS --(Phil, Jill, & Lil) -- I/we want to than THE AUTHOR --GROVE ATLANTIC & Netgalley for making this available for me to read.
"An Eagle for an Emperor, a Gyrfalcon for a King; a Peregrine for a Prince, and a Saker for a Knight; a Merlin for a lady, a Goshawk for a Yeoman, a Sparrowhawk for a Priest, and a Kestrel for a Knave"Eventually reading Helen MacDonald's memoir I began to slowly recall A Kestrel for a Knave, otherwise known as Kes, which will need no further comment for any survivor of the UK education system, but assuming the presence of survivors of other systems of schooling it is a story about a much put upon and occasionally battered child who trains up a kestrel from chick to full grown bird of prey using old falconry books.
Having a background in and love of falconry, she decides to get a goshawk from a breeder in Ireland and train the hawk to hunt.
Her true purpose, besides the training of the hawk, is to lose herself in the activity and life of the bird and cease to feel her own sorrow and loss.Parallel to Helen's story, she tells us the story of T.
I think I will bring something different to the read this time than I did before...thanks to Helen Macdonald.If you have ever lost a father, or anyone you loved and respected, you will find much to hold on to here.
I know I won't do it justice.I'll try again - it's a non fiction book about a woman, a Cambridge academic and falconer, who spirals into grief and depression following the death of her beloved father.
It would be far too easy to say that the hawk fills up the gaps in Macdonald's life, but of course to a large extent it does - she has purpose once again.
Interwoven very cleverly into the book is the life of author T H White, a fellow falconer but also a lonely man living on the outskirts of society.The whole book is beautifully written.
An amalgam of nature writing, memoir and literary history, the impetus for writing it came from Helen Macdonald’s extreme grief at the sudden death of her father, to whom she was very close.
He had a very combative relationship with his bird and his battles with it reflected his battle with his own demons and it’s clear that Macdonald sees nature as a mirror of a person’s own emotions.
But it just isn’t one I could relate to, nor could I relate to her extreme grief or her relationship with the bird, and thus I remained unmoved.
And both of those people feel like kindred spirits.)A Very Different Kind of MemoirThis book is a memoir, but in a very different vein.The Death of Helen's FatherIt's a very personal account by a very private person of grieving over the loss of a loved one.
All those elements of himself he'd pushed away, his sexuality, his desire for cruelty, for mastery: all these were suddenly there in the figure of the hawk."Helen's Early Training of MabelHelen loves and, at first, identifies with, the magnificent Mabel; sees Mabel as a mirror (in much the same way White unconsciously made Gos a mirror).
I had walked all over it..."It's almost like a poem about love, loss, and falconry.Helen Macdonald is brave enough to let us inside her private sorrow.
I didn't know what to expect from this book, despite having read the summary and several glowing reviews.
The story itself is not so much about hawks, as it is about Macdonald dealing with grief and finding a reason to get up in the morning.
I won't go so far as to say this book has me turning into a fan of falconry, but it does rouse an interest in exploring Macdonald's other writing, purely for her style and memorable voice.
A worthwhile read.Just as an aside - weirdly, I just opened my email to see a Groupon for Falconry School?!Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
In her breathtaking new book, “H Is for Hawk,” winner of the Samuel Johnson Prize and the Costa Book Award, Helen Macdonald renders an indelible impression of a raptor’s fierce essence — and her own — with words that mimic feathers, so impossibly pretty we don’t notice their astonishing engineering."Vicki Constantine Croke, The New York TimesI am late to the game with this one.
A contemporary journey mirrored by an ancient one, T.H. White's "The Goshawk", an 18th century treatise which echoes the author's awakening in the most touching and mysterious way.I fail to do justice to the delicate nature of this book, its evasiveness, its frailty, its iridescence, its stupendous command of language.
I haven’t recently experience a great loss in my life, I’ve never read T.H. White’s The Goshawk, and I knew nothing about hawking, but something about H is for Hawk always appealed to me.
Perhaps you’ll be unsurprised to hear that it collected dust on my shelf for over year.After having read Helen Macdonald’s H is for Hawk, I have a better understanding of my reluctance to read the novel, but am glad I finally got down to the business of getting it read.
Macdonald’s plumbing of the depths of her despair and frustration make for a more joyous and life-affirming resolution toward the end of the book.
I was very excited to read this memoir by Helen Macdonald as I am a birder and was drawn to the idea that the author turned to raising a goshawk as a way to channel her grief over the sudden death of her father.
However, I found myself less and less interested while reading -- to the point where finishing the book seemed more like a chore than a pleasure.Macdonald spends quite a large portion of the book analyzing the life an writings of author TH White, who wrote a book titled "The Goshawk." For me, I found the constant flashbacks to White to be a drag on the book.
So why, then, am I so sure that H is for Hawk will not only land on my list of the best books I read this year, but also take its place as one of the finest contemporary books I’ve read, period?For me, the answer is that the finest books have always taught us what it means to be human.
In H is for Hawk, Helen Macdonald discovers that “you feel more human once you have known, even in your imagination, what it means to be not.”But let me backtrack.
Both T.H. White and Helen Macdonald fight demons – his are abuse and his gender orientation; hers is her oppressive grief.
The problem for me was, I was never given the chance to truly experience how the author felt on more than an intellectual level because I felt distanced from her, and also because something or rather someone important was missing from this book--her father.
White also sought to both avoid and to tame something inside him by taming a goshawk, though through a very different method than the author of this book.
And I do not think I am safe.The author reflecting on Mabel's importance in her grieving process:I look down at my hands.
It’s had good press, and won awards, but it’s not an exciting triumph against adversity or a horror story written to wring the heart, something like A Child Called It. It’s a meandering through grief and back to the world, with literary allusions, glances back over the shoulder at history, at T.H. White.
In a way, it’s a biography of T.H. White, as encapsulated in his own battles with his hawk — I feel like I understand him more now through Macdonald than I ever did through reading his work.It’s not an uplifting story.
