https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5056084-wings
Like, as in, she is not a red blooded mammal but is an actual plant...I'm sorry, I'm going to need a judge's ruling on that.Thank you.
The Stephanie Meyer School of Biology, that's what!I mean, and correct me if I'm wrong, but doesn't 8th grade biology talk a lot about how plants photosynthesize to make energy and how they do respire but at night when there's no light and about how they don't have things like digestive systems and they don't have blood but, hey they do have Chloroplasts and Chlorophylls.
There just doesn't seem to be a lot of thought put into this.I mean, look at organs like the brain.
Spoiler Alert!!!This book contains content that can cause a reader to inflict bodily harm to oneself.
Yes PLANTS!
^^I really struggled with this book if you couldn't tell by now, and there are so many head desk issues with the writing and concept that I actually called it quits and couldn't finish it.
It takes a talented author to create a fantastical realm and launch an idea that requires imaginary suspension, and unfortunately IMHO Aprilynne Pike didn't deliver, so lucky for Pike that she has friends in high places to get her book off the ground.Final point… err question rather: Why is this book called Wings if it's really a PLANT and Laurel can't fly with the flower that blossoms on her back?
Not cool.Also, at the early stages of the book, when Laurel still doesn't know what the blossom on her back is, she tells David that she didn't tell her parents because she didn't want to be turned into a medical freak.
I know there are accessible, easy to read books out there with much better messages than Wings or Twilight or Fallen, but the general public doesn't want to read "To Kill a Mockingbird" or "Unwind" or 'Let The Right One In", do they?
Laurel is also a young woman with a mysterious past, who is trying to merge into normal high school life in a small town.
And how special.This could have been a very formulaic tale about the teenage girl on the outskirts of high school society who discovers she is not only different but different in a wonderful way.
Laurel will discover that her differences, while possibly marvelous, also put her in the way of great dangers.
By the end of the book, first in a series, the reader can foresee that she is going to have to face some very difficult choices in the days to come.
Wings was my first ever fairy book and I adored it. Aprilynne Pike is so clever and creative. She has such a unique twist on fairies and I kept reading passages over and over again because they were just so interesting.
I gave up on YA.
To give Pike some credit, at least she’s setting up her love story early and not kicking her heels with pointless descriptions of everything else going on like Meyer, but give her time and that’ll change.
The extra kicker comes when Tamani takes glee in telling Laurel that faeries may use pollination for reproducing, but sex is for fun!
With this comes Laurel and David’s overwhelming urge to investigate the ugly suspicious man who is going to buy the old Sewell house (the gateway to the faerie land of Avalon is on the land).
Unintentionally so, but still funny.Statements like "Don’t worry, I’ll keep my distance from your blossom." had me in tears because I was laughing so hard.
(For more on that, check out Arlene’s awesome review)I’ve read 112 pages now and I’m still not hooked and I just don’t feel like finishing it.
I’m bursting out laughing every other sentence.I don't know, maybe I would have gotten used to the plant thing if I had kept on reading but as I said, I don't feel like it so for now Wings is going to find its way back into the depths of my shelves where it has been hiding out for the past year.
Wings was definitely a unique take on fairy mythology. And I finally get the significance of the cover now, which I have to say fits the novel perfectly. I’m a huge fan of the Faery/Fairy/Fae... (was it is really?) genre, or rather sub-genre. I wasn’t surprised that I really liked this novel. Sensational plot line, really different than anything I’ve read. The first part of the novel moved a little slow for me. But once I became fully engrossed in the world that Pike created, I couldn’t get thro
I wasn’t surprised that I really liked this novel.
Maybe that’s just something that happens to me personally, but I love when it does.
Although we don’t know much about Laurel’s history, I still felt like I really knew her as a character, and even though Tamani’s presence in the novel is few and far between, he is probably my favorite character, which says a lot for Pike’s character development.
I can’t wait to see more of that in the future novels, as far as I’m aware I believe there are to be three more, consisting of a four book series....
A very intriguing take on faeries. However, I feel that not a lot happened in the first third of the novel; it was mostly Laurel finding out who and what she is. Though beautifully written, it seemed more of an intro to the next book than a novel in itself. Still, it kept me turning pages, the characters were well developed, and the love triangle inspired many aww moments. I'm anxious to see what will happen in the next book
What Meyer has done to vampires, Pike has done to faeries. This book is sweet, funny, sensually and beautifully told. She gives every single character their justice and purpose. Amazingly composed. This has got to be a part of a series. I need more.
I actually enjoyed the book.Aprilynne Pike first turned me off reading ‘Wings’ when she blurbed Kiersten White’s Paranormalcy basically saying that she preferred the rapey stalker to the nice boy in that book’s love triangle – probably because he was a ‘hot’ faerie – and I stayed away from this book for years.
(hide spoiler)]So that was weird.One of the other things I liked was that the romance developed by trying to figure out what the heck Laurel was, and the villain wasn’t just tacked on in the last quarter of the book to create a climax.
OH MY GOD. OH MY GOD. UM. THIS IS THE FIRST AND ONLY FAIRIE BOOK I'VE READ THAT I LIKED. AND I FLIPPIN LOVED IT
I remember reading this book a few years ago and really loving it. I also read the sequel back then but I never really finished the series. Now I'm gonna finish it. This was such a quick and enjoyable read. Although it has many tropes that we all hate, such as love triangles, I still found myself enticed by the story. I am so excited to get the rest of the series in the mail so I can continue!!
"There's always someone who secretly believes in myths and legends."Beautiful, short book that kinda reminded me of a Disney movie but was an enjoyable read nonetheless. And of course, Tamani and Laurel were my favorite characters to read about in this story. David was an amazing best friend and should just stay that way :)
At her high school Laurel meets David, and he invites her to join his group of friends.
Laurel goes back to her cabin home in search of answers.
She has been helping the fairies guard a secret that is by her cabin home.
WINGS is the first of four books, and it leaves us with Laurel living two different lives.
Should she go back to her fairy life with Tamani, or stay and guard her adoptive parents and be with David, who Laurel also has feelings for?
He is what I would love to meet and have in my life.
Though I haven't read "Twilight" due to my abhorrence of anything vampire, this may be the fairy equivalent. Main character discovers she's a plant fairy, does battle with trolls, and must decide between two love interests, one a human and the other a fairy. Compelling story!
By the end I was definitely sucked in. It is a very different take on fairies, very interesting. I'm definitely curious to see how this series turns out...
I heard this book really, really stinks...The main character has my name...No one fucks up my name and GETSAWAYWITHIT.
Review: Wings by Aprilynne PikeThe story begins when a homeschooled young girl, Laurel moves to a new town with her parents and starts going to highschool for the very first time, later she discovers something isn't quite right with herself and she must get to the bottom of the mystery of her own origin with the help of David, her new friend.I must confess, Wings by Aprilynne Pike is one of those annoying, formulized YA novels which I can't bring myself to finish.
Okay, I like the idea of David doing experiment to test what Laurel really is, but the way this 'experiment' is done, is a big insult to what we'd usually call scientific experiments.The villains in the story is later being revealed as the evil trolls, why they want to attack Avalon (homeland of fairies) so badly?
I love the very original (for me) faerie mythology that Pike has created in this book. And have to say I'm Team Tamani.
It was a fast and fun read, so I can't complain too much.Sure, cocky, perfect guys have completely saturated the market, leaving us lovers of YA looking for different male leads.
I about groaned as I felt being pushed in the direction of the "perfect" guy instead of the "best friend." Yes, I do believe I've read this before.
In fact, I was thrilled when I read a book Drink, Slay, Love and the author decided to go the opposite route by pushing the "nice" guy over the "perfect" guy.That said, I didn't like the nice guy in this book.
You lose when going up against a hot guy who's also mysterious, whether I want to like him or not.
3,5 αστεράκια.
While not quite remarkable for me, it was certainly a good enough start to a series that I am interested to read the next book.
Since I haven't read any other YA books specifically on faeries yet, though I have Lament and Wicked Lovely waiting on my shelf, I can't compare this book to other faerie/fairy/fae/fey (let me count the ways?) stories.
Though from what I do know about faeries (and having read some other reviews), this book has a very interesting "twist" on the faerie story.
Wings is the story of 15 year old Laurel who has been homeschooled up until this point and has started her first year of high school.
Luckily her would be boyfriend is OK with dating a plant, in fact he thinks it's kind of cool.
The premise of this book is whacked enough that I really should like it...sorry to say it just wasn't working.
There was a lot of talk about petals which was just creepy, and would be boyfriend even asked if he could touch her petals, to which she demurely agreed.
Personally I always thought the touching of the petals came after the mouth to mouth...seems I was wrong.
evil battle towards the end redeemed the book a little, but not nearly enough.
3.75/5
5 just like always :) This is about my third time rereading this book and it's never failed to give me just the perfect amount of entertainment, action, and love.
If you're going to write a fantasy book, then you need a better imagination than that.Characters: One-dimensional, no goals or purposes, exactly like Bella from Twilight.
If you write a book where the plot, writing and characters are more geared toward younger girls, than don't start having a sex talk in the middle of the book.
It throws the whole thing off and 11 year old girls reading this are going to get a little more than they bargained for.Dialogue: Unbelievably unrealistic.
No teenage guy is going to approach a girl he hardly knows and give up lunch with his friends to sit with her on the first day of school.
I keep hearing Tamani saying he she taught him all about loyalty or whatever and she's like oh my gawsh, he and I knew each other so we should just pretend we know each other now and fall in love!
While I'm over here making out with David who actually acts like he loves me I'm just gonna watch Tamani smoulder and all that hot stuff.
And Pike, I don't want another love triangle exactly like Twilight.
I don't want to make it sound like it was a BAD book.
The plot is introduced towards the end, quickly wrapped up, and it's back to "Oh, do I love David or Tamani?" I enjoyed this book...
Now I remember why I had fell in love with this book when I was younger and so disappointed for not having reading the other books in this series. I don't know the story is just so different? Compelling? The writing is simple but the concept and the relationships are much more deeper. I do not regret finishing this past 3am on a school night! Also I don't know for which team I fight for anymore, I'm torn.
