https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/350.Stranger_in_a_Strange_Land
It took me a long time to read only because of lack of time, and a rather annoying trait the author has that I'll go into later.This is one of those books that tells us more about the period it was written in than anything else, so it's important to note that it was first published in 1961 and later again in 1968 - when moon fever was running high and people seemed to have high expectations for human achievement.
Despite Heinlein's progressive (especially for the time) ideas about sexuality and desire, he reinforces the gender dichotomy repeatedly, putting women and homosexuals in their place as he does so.
Following Jill's realization of her own desire to be looked at, Mike comes to see that "Naughty pictures are a great goodness" and they go together to strip clubs to enjoy the live version.
Again, this is not a bad goal--for once, finally, Mike brings a message of personal responsibility to add to the free love and grokking that has constituted most of the rest of the book.
One must read Heinlein's signature work to understand what all the fuss is about, from both sides.
Heinlein, excusing his later life meanderings into the weird and sexually uninhibited, was a great writer.
He uses a Sci-Fi story about a man from Mars as a vehicle for him to explore and to expound upon a great many subjects, most notably theology, ideology, social and sexual mores, and popular culture.
Love it or hate it, and this work will no doubt inspire strong emotion, this is a powerful book and a must read for SF fans.
(Note: Original pub date is 1961)Fuck you, Heinlein!!!
This isn't a book, it's a pompous recitation of every one of your pet peeves and pet theories, delivered through the mouths of your utterly two-dimensional "characters" during the course of a nonexistent plot.
You can throw all the orgies and kinky sex you want in there, but it doesn't make your book edgy or profound, and it sure doesn't make you a good writer.
Although, bonus hilarity points to Mr. Heinlein for putting tons of lesbian stuff in there, but going out of his way to say that the men don't touch each other AT ALL, because that would totally be GAY, and I'M TOTALLY NOT INTO THAT, OKAY?
Yeah, whatever Heinlein.
"Unabridged" does not mean "cooler." It means "longer." It means "unedited, sloppy, and even questionable." But mostly it means "longer."2) Anyone who says they're able to "look over" the unrelenting misogyny of this book is, like, freaking insane.
Guess what it makes them the exact total fucking opposite of.And I'm just saying, maybe if there'd been one little guy-orgy in all those pages, like to replace all the dudes talking about how they were having sex with each other's wives?
"Nine times out of ten, if a girl gets raped, it’s at least partly her own fault." The most quoted sentence from this book.He's right it is.
(view spoiler)[Rape in Saudi Arabia worth reading this in it's (short) entirety (hide spoiler)].I suppose if you hold the attitude of it must be her fault '9 times out of 10' her punishment is just and knowing that, she isn't going to complain.
Normal men don't rape, they like the woman to enjoy sex too.
And they still have rape in those countries.The book was brilliant and I read it years before I had my consciousness raised (horrible phrase).
I will state, without apology, that I have enjoyed every Robert Heinlein book I have ever read.Do I always agree with his philosophy or his observations on life. No.But he tells me a story, and while he is telling it, I don't put that book down.I don't read books to find authors who agree with me or match some political template.I read books for stories. And diversity in story tellers is good.
My mom was trying to get me to leave so she glanced at the paperback rack where I was standing, grabbed "Stranger in a Strange Land" and said, "If you want to know how weird your father is, read this book." How could I turn that down?
(She was later shocked when I first dated another woman.)The book affected me profoundly but I am afraid to read it again because I'm sure I'll hate it.
And I hate to think what kind of racist drivel I'd find.But if there was a book that actually changed my life, this is it.
But Stranger was my favorite book for a long time.
This is not the case with Stranger in a Strange Land, which is a hoot from beginning to end.Robert Heinlein did not want Stranger in a Strange Land to be labeled as science fiction because he wants readers to view the novel as a sociopolitical allegory exploring the origin of a new religion, social mores, sexual liberation and other challenging themes.
At the time I only read sci-fi for the escapism and this book did not disappoint.Looking at the basic plot it is not surprising that Stranger in a Strange Land is labeled as science fiction.
“Nine times out of ten, if a girl gets raped, it’s at least partly her own fault.” (511) Perhaps this is the single most quoted statement from this work, and also the statement by which Heinlein is critiqued and berated, the same statement by which this philosophically charged work is sullied by 1-star ratings. Whether by inadvertent straying into a faulty conception and erroneous application of intentional fallacy or the failure to recognize that Heinlein sought this work to stand as historici
Whether by inadvertent straying into a faulty conception and erroneous application of intentional fallacy or the failure to recognize that Heinlein sought this work to stand as historicization of the prevailing attitudes at the time of writing juxtaposed with those of the future, as represented by the Man from Mars, the loss of substance predicated upon such mistakes are saddening.
By doing so, Heinlein, through Jubal and the Man from Mars, asks the reader, by extension, to reexamine beliefs and conventions.
To disregard this by literally focusing on the sexism is to lose the quintessential aspect of the book.
After my latest reread of Robert Heinlein's Stranger in a Strange Land, it took some time for me to decide how I felt about it. On the one hand, the story is innovative and thought provoking. On the other hand, the story gets clunky and is extremely sexist (something readers of Heinlein often see in his works, but usually not quite to this degree). I might revisit Stranger again someday. I like how the Martian language is presented and the idea of grokking is really fun. 3.5 stars rounded down this time.
I don't even...I might try one of these books again in the distant future, and I might try the last of this guy's classics, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress at some point. But for now I can only say that Robert A. Heinlein is one of my least favourite writers of all time.I might write a real review, but considering that I'm not particularly fond of reviewing thoroughly negative experiences, I don't know if I can be bothered.
Very 1960s counterculture (grok, seriously?). Very weird. Heinlein was kind of gross in his old age.
Watching Mike try to grok humans gave a Heinlein great opportunities to point out some of our faults - and our advantages.I think my favorite part of this book is the word 'grok'.
I would bet that there are deep discussions over the true meaning of this word - but I will contend that its closest meaning in English is 'to be enlightened about something'.
If you grok God you have reached enlightenment.
If you grok music you truly understand in the way that Mozart understood it.
I wasn't alive in the 60's, but given everything I know about the 60's from movies, books, etc it seemed that my grokking was right.
I read this. Yes. When I was young. At the time it appeared to be fascism for hippies. Proto-Manson, then. I'm struggling to remember anything. He comes from Mars and he starts a new religion and he eats people. No - he gets eaten by people. I think that's it. A bit like Jesus. If Jesus was a fascist. You know what - I can't remember a thing. It's late.*Update - for why we never have to read this one anymore, see Robin's review herehttps://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Typical of Heinlein, one of his main characters is a crusty old genius, Jubal Harshaw, who pontificates a fair amount.
It helps to read this occasionally, if only to gain some perspective to look at my current society.As an SF novel, he does have his gadgets, but leaves the science of their workings to our imaginations.
In other words, he doesn't date his work with a lot of pseudo-science that is outdated.
It helps this book stand the test of time a lot better.
Occasionally, he swats them down.All in all, it's an excellent book & a must read.
Being aware that he had but a short time left to live and having neither Martian nor Kansan faith in his own immortality, it was his purpose to live each golden moment as if it were eternity—without fear, without hope, but with sybaritic gusto.” In "Stranger in a Strange Land" by Robert A.
HeinleinI believe it was Spider Robinson who once wrote "There's a special word that authors use to describe someone who thinks that every character is speaking for the author himself.
Why do they assume an author necessarily agrees with everything his characters say in his books?
But Jill was not sure that Mike would refuse a pass, say, from Duke—fortunately Mike’s male water brothers were decidedly masculine, just as his others were very female women.
Jill suspected that Mike would grok a ‘wrongness’ in the poor in-betweeners anyhow—they would never be offered water."And another one: "After looking over a bushel or so of Mike’s first class mail Jubal set up a list of categories: (…) G.
seminal.also: legit-legit crazy.but important on too many levels to ignore.it was the right book at 
Who tries to capitalize on the man who owns Mars, who protects him, how he learns to adapt and later to understand us crazy humans, and what he does with his gifts.The novel could be an indictment of modern times, a brew-on of absurdity when it comes to religion and religious thinking, a wildly prescient vision of the sexual liberation movement just a few years down the road, (or perhaps the seminal novel that informed the sixties love movements,) or it could be a wonderful shout-out to us all to start trying to UNDERSTAND one another, for grok's sake.So I think it's wonderfully delicious.
However, without delving too deep into spoiler territory I will at least say that going in I would've expected the examination to be centered on (view spoiler)[an alien culture and people.
For example, although I found it a tad melodramatic and obvious in its final culmination of the Jesus parallel Heinlein was working with, the ending took me by surprise.
(hide spoiler)]That being said, the book is docked one star in the rating, because in my opinion the preponderance of philosophy bandied about through out Stranger in a Strange Land is almost too much to bare.
Overall, I was enjoying the ideas the book was putting forth about religion and politics and community prior to Mike’s intellectual ascent [descent?] as a Man rather than a Martian.
I think Heinlein was using Jubal as the adherent to Science as a religion, setting up all belief systems currently at work on Earth, pre-Martian Man, to be resolved under the power of human mental oneness i.e.
I realized that if I didn’t know what those things were a lot of this book would not make sense to me.
The first half of the book reads like a suspenseful mystery/action flick with some sharp observations about language and culture clashes.
The second half deals with whacky religion and uninhibited sex.
But the book gives plenty food for thought, technology and gadgets aren't as outdated as you'd think, and the conspiracy plot was truly gripping.
And I think I grok it.______________________________________Does that sound Mormon like to you Gretchen?
I know little about Mormons, I doubt they are that extreme, but I kept imagining them as I read.
And I guess they do stick with that outdated, little sexist attitude towards women.
I gave it 4 stars for memory's sake. Now the folks at Syfy are adapting for TV! Amazing to me that, once considered too racy for publication unexpurgated, it's now a TV-able property. For all its many faults, I'm glad Society has caught up with Heinlein's libertarian 'tude towards sex.http://www.ew.com/article/2016/11/15/...I decided to give it more of a review at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud: https://tinyurl.com/hwov3qm
No, Robert A. Heinlein, women who are raped do not deserve it.No, there is not something 'fundamentally wrong' with homosexuals.These most baffling and now bigoted of statements coincide with almost loving statements about the nature of compassion, truth, and self-sacrifice.Anyone who preaches these first two things combined with the latter platitudes in the 21st century will not, in any sense, be considered a messiah.Heinlein, you were a gifted writer. You definitely worked your magic on a young impressionable teenaged version of myself. But your ideology, perhaps the product of its time, is poisonous.
Robert Heinlein was a good friend of AI legend Marvin Minsky (check out his people page!
OK, love the idea of the guy from Mars, who doesn't understand how people work and has to learn the most basic things about emotions, society, etc from first principles.
But I think you got a bit distracted with the super-powers and the sex.
And I wasn't so thrilled by the fact that he never actually does anything much with his powers, except for start a minor cult and get martyred.
And he helps them start a revolution, and break free from Earth's tyranny?
This book is too much a product of its times for me to fully enjoy it, but that night I dreamed of Mars.
Additionally, the ridiculous exclamation of "Thou Art God" by the Martian man during coital climax, and a lengthy discussion between the preachy asshole and a Muslim linguist (referred to as "Stinky") about whether the four women present have souls and whether they are pretty enough to be Hooris (the viriginal maidens of Paradise) followed by the sequential proposition of each by "Stinky".
but, of course, he likes it.Outside of the appalling moments, the story is rather mundane and can be summed up in several episodes as 1) a lengthy stay at a hospital, 2) a political conference, 3) a stint in a carnival, 4) the rise of a semi-religious sex cult, 5) and then the hamfisted conclusion.
The thing that makes me recoil is that this is a story with so much potential, that is so affected by its author's worldview that it becomes unpalatable.
It's not like this was written entirely pre-women's movement -- it's not like it was unforseen that conceptions of gender and power might have shifted.
It's just that you get the distinct idea that the author did not want them to shift.
Maybe I'm just older and more jaded, but I feel much less outraged now that an author in 1961 would be sexist and homophobic, or hold this particular vision for a sexual revolution.
Maybe some books just age terribly and time hasn't been kind to this.
It may have had impact at the time of its release but the quality of scifi has increased infinitely since this was seen as top drawer and it pales in comparison to what has followed .This book reminded me of those times you are stuck talking to a drunk who thinks he is vastly superior to you and is imparting untold wisdom of the ages but is really just talking crap.
