https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/761190.Ira_Sleeps_Over
Even now my mom could recite the book almost word for word, which I think proves how much it was requested when I was growing up.Ira has been invited over to his best friend Reggie's house for a sleep over.
And when Reggie mentions telling ghost stories, Ira happens to ask what Reggie thinks of teddy bears.
Albeit to say that I think Waber has a wonderful grasp of children's emotions and I love that this book doesn't talk down to kids or make their fears seem unimportant, and I love the train of thought that he weaves for the children.
This book is utterly charming, funny, and sweet.
And I think it’s wonderful to read one to one or to groups, for independent readers too, just for fun or when there is any issue of peer pressure, and it’s an ideal book to read before a first or any fraught with anxiety sleepover.
It’s also a wonderful book for fans of teddy bears, and I know quite a few children and adults who qualify here.
I also appreciate that the two main child characters are boys.
I read less about sleepovers for boys than ones for girls.
After reading this book again today I remember why she liked it so much.
I think this book would be appropriate to read to any child who may be nervous about attending their first sleepover.
This book is one of the few that I’ve read that has addressed this issue and made it seem like a normal thing to want to cling to items from childhood.
Another thing I like about this book is the illustrations.
Overall I think this book is extremely relatable to mid-elementary school students who are beginning to have sleepovers of their own and experiencing the very beginnings of growing up.
My daughter and I read this book last night (we've read it a few times before, too), and I read it years ago as an older child.
My parents actually gave the book to my brother when he turned three, and there, inside the front cover, is a very sweet inscription.
As an adult, I get a kick out of the illustrations that I didn't get as a kid.
The author/illustrator paints a lovely subtle picture of Ira's parents as "bobos" (bourgeois bohemians), a status to which I myself aspire.
We really enjoyed this story. It was so real and relatable, and the relationships and little-kid worries were on point. Definitely one we’ll revisit.

In the end, Ira goes over without his bear, but later after telling scary stories Reggie gets out his own teddy bear.
Realizing that Reggie has his own bear and won't make fun of him, Ira goes home and gets his bear after all, then returns and falls asleep.
It's a good book to show that you shouldn't be afraid to show who you are and what you need with you at times.LE:In small groups, the children will be asked if they have every been on a sleep over or would they ever want to go on one.
On a whim, I pulled this book off the shelf to read to 2nd grade.
I hadn't read it in years and years, and I'm not even sure why it came to mind, but I am happy to say that I was surprised at how much the kids enjoyed it.
They paid close attention, got a little exasperated at the way Ira kept changing his mind about taking his teddy bear to Reggie's house (I kept hearing little sighs and comments like, "Just take it!"), and openly shared about the stuffed animal(s) they sleep with.
I had a lot of fun reading this to the kids, and I'm so glad I pulled it off the shelf.
Typical older sister picking on the younger brother for his first sleepover at a friends. Poor Ira, is excited about staying over at his friends house until his sister gets him to thinking about how big a baby he would seem if he took his teddy bear with him. He is tormented repeatedly by her words.Author/illustrator Bernard Waber captures this childhood dilemma with panache. The illustrations are engaging and the story well thought out.Published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.
A perfect read-aloud that will be completely understood by every child who has ever slept over at a friend's house. I love the family interactions shown here. Poor Ira has quite the sister! In the beginning, I didn't like the illustrations, but as I continued reading, I felt that they fit really well with the story. I love how Ira's friend Reggie refuses to talk about teddy bears - until he absolutely has to!
This is a great story to prepare youngsters for their first sleepover. Although our girls are still too young for it, I like that Ira's first sleepover is just next door, so he is able to go home if need arises. I also like the sibling angst between Ira and his sister; it provides a good opportunity to start a conversation about peer pressure and bossy older siblings. Overall, it's a great story to read aloud to children, especially at bedtime.
This book deals with the real problems of big sisters and bringing a teddy bear to a sleep over. It is so cute and funny and will make you laugh out loud. Students will be engaged while reading or listening to this book.
It was kinda cute. But old fashioned theme.
As the story continues Reggie and Ira have a conversation about how much fun they are going to have but Ira just keeps asking what do you think about teddy bears?
Even though it was dark I could see something like it had furry arms and next thing you know it was Reggies teddy bear.
By the time she got back Reggie was fast to sleep.This book had jacket flaps where the front cover told briefly about the story and the back talked about Bernard Weber and the other books he has written.
When Ira is invited to sleep over for the first time at his friend Reggie's house, they have big plans - but Ira isn't sure if those plans include his teddy bear.
His sister convinces him that Reggie will think he's a baby if he brings a teddy.
Growing up doesn't need to be quite as fast as Ira thinks, as long as Reggie has a teddy bear, too.
I loved the fun they have and the childhood collections that Reggie shares with Ira - bottle caps, postcards, a false nose and mustache, a flashlight, all capturing the feeling of happy childhood.
Ira has an exciting sleepover planned at his friend Reggie's house.
There's just one problem.
Should be bring his teddy bear (named Tah Tah)?
Reggie is much too grown up to have a teddy bear he must sleep with, right?
Filled with suspense and the promise of scary ghost stories and brand new experiences, Ira realizes he really cannot sleep without his 'friend' and has to go back to his house at the last minute.
Of course, this is the kind of story where you realize that you're not the only one with problems.
This book is wonderful, and could be relatable for any young learner or child.
I know as a child I encountered this, and felt like I was scared too.
I love that the author felt the need to ensure that children are not embarrassed that they sleep with stuffed animals and that they can feel confident that other children do as well.
This book really reminded me of what I was like as a child, and the irrational fears that I had.
I would recommend this book to any parent or educator though.
In this story, Ira is invited to his first sleep over, but is not sure if he should take his teddy bear or not.
The ending shows how his attachment to his teddy bear helps to build his friendship and makes for a successful first sleepover.
This is great book for a child who might be embarking on a first sleep over or has an attachment to a beloved stuffed animal.
It is a great read out loud story.
The pictures are simple drawings with color that help add to the charm of this story.
Ira's sister tells Ira that if he doesn't take his teddy bear, he will be afraid.
If he does take the teddy bear, Reggie will make fun of him.
Ira decides not to take his teddy bear, but later on in the night he learns that Reggie sleeps with a teddy bear too.
Ira decides to go back home and grab his teddy bear.
This book can teach children to do what makes you feel comfortable and to not listen to what anyone has to say.
It is okay to have a comfort object or something that makes you feel safe.
Many children have a doll like their friend. I can't understand why people laugh that Ira takes a teddy bear to Reggie's home because I have a doll and whenever I sleep, I sleep hugging it. It makes me comfortable and easy to fall asleep. I think children don't need to be ashame about their doll because it is very helpful and it can be their friend. Moreover, it can be their pretty memory. I like this book because it is so cute.
Genre: Realistic Fiction and Children's Picture BookUnique Feature: I have come across several courage type books, but I especially appreciate the message of this book. Even though some people might tell you something is a "big deal" and might try to convince you to do otherwise, you should ultimately do what is best for you, not that other person. This book can help to instill courage in students. Grades K-4
This book was really sweet. I thought it was funny the way Ira's sister kept trying to antagonize him. Reminds me of how I was with my own little brother. I smiled when Reggie mentioned his Teddy Bear's name, I though that was really cute the way the author made it similar to Ira's Teddy Bear's name! All in all, it was a good story. I don't think I had read this one previously.
And oldie but a goodie - had the G2 students on the edge of their chairs waiting to see what happens. This is what good story-telling is about - creeping into the hearts and minds of your target group and relaying back their fears and insecurities and converting them.
This story really struck home because it reminded me of my daughter. I read it to her because she, too, has an attachment to a stuffed animal. This story was really interesting and is great for 6-7 year old kids. This is a wonderful story with great illustrations. I loved it.
Ira is invited to sleepover at a friends but he can't decide if he should bring his stuffed animal because of his sisters discouragement. In the end he decides to bring it and realizes that his friend has one too.
Ira is spending the night at his friend's house, and he's not sure if he should bring his teddy bear. His sister keeps telling Ira that his friend will laugh at him.
A boy who is old enough to sleep over with a friend may still not be ready to leave his teddybear for the night. Cute book about being anxious through a rite of passage.
For Ira's first sleepover he is torn as to whether or not to take his bear. He ends up taking his bear after his friend tells a scary ghost story. His friend has a bear, too.
Ira Sleeps over is story about a boy who is hesitant to take his teddy bear to a sleep over, only to find out his friend sleeps with a teddy bear too. A bit old fashioned, but cute.
Believable characters deal with that awkward phase when kids begin to outgrow their childhood playthings; entertaining illustrations.
