https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8537327-inside-out-back-again
The novel was based on her first year in the United States, as a ten-year-old girl who spoke no English in 1975.
Inside Out and Back Again is a story about a young girl named Kim Hà and her family being forced to move to the United States because the Vietnam War had reached their home, and it was no longer safe.
In the beginning of the book, it mentions that Hà's father, a soldier in the Vietnam war, was captured by the North Vietnamese Army when she was only a year old.
In the end, Hà's family figures out that unfortunately, her father had died while in North Vietnamese hands.
I especially appreciated the love this family held for one another during such difficult times.However, the format of the story made me feel a bit disconnected from the tale.
I wanted to feel more connected to the family and know a bit more of their past.But overall it was a poignant and important story that will be on my mind for the next few days.3.5 stars*Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate.
If you're interested in buying Inside Out & Back Again , just click on the image below to go through my link.
{This review originally appeared on Clear Eyes, Full Shelves.}I now understandwhen they make fun of my name,yelling ha-ha-ha down the hall when they ask if I eat dog meat,barking and chewing and falling down laughingwhen they wonder if I lived in the jungle with tigers,growling and stalking on all fours.I understandbecause Brother Khoinodded into my headon the bike ride homewhen I asked if kidssaid the same thingsat his school.Thanhha Lai writes her verses in her award winning middle grade novel in verse, Inside Out and Back Again, from the heart, and memory of deeply felt experience.She poignantly and artistically brings emotion, both painful and joyful, straight from the page and into the senses.
After having much success with The Outsiders and All American Boys he took his teacher’s recommendation and we ended up with this one - and wow what an important and timely little book it was.Told in verse, Inside Out and Back Again is about Hà, a young girl growing up in war torn Vietnam.
This is the story of Hà’s first year in America.First things first, since this was told in verse my kiddo was able to read it in only a couple of days which made him feel AWESOME so thank you Thanhha Lai for that format.
When we had a "Guess That Baby Picture" contest at school, she brought a school photo of herself around the age of 8, because that was all she had.
The form forces a talented author to show clarity and emotion with minimal language, and Lai's is just beautiful.
Entitled Feel Dumb, this poem expresses that feeling succinctly:MiSSS SScott / points to me, / then to the letters / of the English alphabet.I say / A B C and so on.She tells the class to clap.I frown.
Let me tell you something.
If I wasn't forced to write so many essay's about this stupid book, then I might have enjoyed it more.
Maybe if we didn't have to analyze every sentence discussing every little detail until I accidentally tear one of the papers out because we had to flip back so many times, I probably might have enjoyed it more.
This could have been a great book, and it's a shame that the new common core thinks we are "Learning" from writing useless paragraphs on how Ha's experience relates to the title.
Don't let something like school ruin what could have been a great novel.
It touched me emotionally on the struggles Hà had to deal with.Hà is different from everyone around her.
She is the weird black-haired girl in her school.
She is the girl everyone makes fun of.
She works hard to learn English to overcome the differences and challenges, and I really admire her for that.
Another reason I loved this book is that I was able to connect and relate to her struggles.
Many people around the world also deal with the problem of being laughed at just because they are different from people around them, and I think this book has a really nice message for everyone to understand.
The result is a novel that works in every conceivable way."No one would believe me but at times I would choose wartime in Saigon over peacetime in Alabama." Ha has known both in her life, actually.
Yet the solution, it seems, is not to become someone different but to take what she is already and find a way to make her new life work.In a way Inside Out and Back Again kind of marks the second coming of the verse novel.
To make this book a verse novel, the child reader gets to be inside Ha's head while at the same time encountering sentences that are broken up in ways different from your average middle grade novel.
This book has been on my radar (and my shelves) for a while and I’m glad I finally read it. Told in verse from the POV of 10 year old Hà, we get a glimpse into life in Vietnam during the war, the journey of a refugee, and the struggles to adapt and be accepted in a new country. Truly a wonderful, heartfelt (and sometimes heartbreaking) book.
Read this review and more on my blogIn a nutshell: A beautifully written story of immigration told through verse and the eyes of a young girl.After the Fall of Saigon at the end of the war in Vietnam, Hà and her family are forced to flee home.
The fact that it was based partly on Thanhha Lai's own experiences made it more real, rather than a simple regurgitation of things anyone could read in a textbook.
I'd recommend it to everyone.Initial review:A beautifully written story of a girl and her family, who leave Saigon at the end of the Vietnam War and live in America.
A lot of you are using the word "prose" where you mean "poetry", and I can't take it.Also, there are actually lots and lots of kids' and YA books written in verse.
Thanks.Anyway, actual review: I find it difficult to review this, just like I found it difficult to review the last novel-in-verse about a Vietnamese refugee in the 1970s that I read, All the Broken Pieces.
Ha reads like a more original character than many, and the thoroughly-sketched mother and sketchily-sketched brothers are all so clear to me in my mind.
A must read!
It's a book I didn't know exist until a few days ago, and I'm truly glad it came into my life.This book deeply touched me because my dad's own family immigrated from Vietnam to France and the Vietnamese culture is one I grew up hearing about but never truly experienced it.This story follows Hà, her mother and three brothers, through their journey from a Vietnam at war to an American that doesn't necessarily welcome them with opened arms.
They may know in general where their parents came from, but they can't really imagine the noise and smells of Vietnam, the daily challenges of starting over in a strange land.”
Putting side that I was not the biggest fan of the writing, because I do not think that simply separating sentences with a lot of space is poetry, the story and her experiences made up for it.
This book took me back to what it is like completely learning a new language, and how some people will make you feel stupid, ignoring that perhaps you speak more languages than they do, for your inability to speak perfectly the first day you arrive at school.
having learned from Mother that the pity giver feels better, never the pity receiver.”I agree.
They're eventually rescued at sea and wind up in Alabama where they're sponsored by The Cowboy and his sour wife.There are several topics in this short tale that are relevant to today, specifically refugees seeking safety in America, cultural integration, racism, and the goods and evils of Christianity.
(view spoiler)[As in, a good Christian family sponsors a refugee family BUT!
In addition, there are the standard topics of starting a new school, bullies, community, and the value of well-meaning adults in a child's life making the story relatable to kids who are not Asian refugees in the 70's because some things just never change.
If you love lyrical books you will love this book. I couldn't stop reading it.
A short, but significant, story.
This book is one of the reasons reading is so important.
How else would we understand what it feels like to be a refugee?
I've never read a book written in free verse, but I absolutely loved it.
I thought the fact that the author could get you to feel so much for the characters with so few words was amazing.
"Her brows twist so muchwe hush."Description: This is the moving story of one girl's year of change, dreams, grief, and healing as she journeys from one country to another, one life to the next.
I don't care how old you are, I don't care if you like poetry or not, you should still read this. I'm 45, I'm not into poetry, and I loved this. In spare but elegant verse, the story of one year in the life of a girl is told. A year where Saigon falls and her family becomes refugees fleeing to safety in the United States. A year of coming to terms with a new culture and language. A year of struggle as a forced immigrant. This is amazing both as a piece of literature and as a learning experience.
This historical fiction was special because the main character, Ha, experiences the same things as the author did when she was 10. It did get a little confusing because not everything that happened was recorded so it looked like she skipped parts. I still loved it!
I love this book!!! It is about a young Vietnamese girl and her family. It is a great story told in her perspective. It shows the struggles of being brought into a new land (America). She has to face lots of problems whether that be losing her papaya tree or facing the schools bully. I would totally recommend this book!!!!
"No one would believe mebut at times/I would choosewartime in Saigonoverpeacetime in Alabama."This prize winning book is powerful and sad.
A young girl named Kim Ha has to leave Vietnam during the war and ends up in the southern State of Alabama.To begin with, Kim Ha's father has been MIA for 10 years, and after they leave for America they wonder how he can find them if he comes home.
It works very well in this book and somehow makes it much more powerful.When she begins school in America, some children tease her, as if her life wasn't hard enough.
It is 1975, and as the war draws closer to her Saigon, Vietnam home, Ha reflects on the whereabouts of her missing father and the family's difficult straits.
The book illustrates perfectly many of the struggles immigrants face as they deal with a new culture, a new language, and misperceptions about their home countries.
Only someone with a stone in place of a heart could fail to care about Ha, her siblings, and her mother or be impressed by their determination not only to survive but to thrive in their new home.
In this short, easy-to-read collection of poems, 10 year old Ha recounts one year of upheaval in her life as she is forced to leave Saigon upon the invasion of North Vietnam.
She and her family escape on an over-crowded navy ship one day before the fall of Saigon and they take shelter at the US naval base on Guam.
This is a book that makes you reflect on your own charmed life and wonder if you have done enough for those who have had to give up everything in order to live one more day.
Một cuốn sách cảm động, chân thật và đẹp đẽ. Thanh Hà đã mang lại cho tôi rất nhiều cảm xúc và một góc nhìn khác về chiến tranh Việt Nam cũng như câu chuyện cũa những người xa xứ dưới góc nhìn của một cô bé 9 tuổi, tuyệt vời!
Review to come. (And the list grows larger)
So this story has particular personal meaning.Like most Americans, I owe the life I live to the courage and hope of immigrant ancestors.
I hope this book makes readers think about how immigrants, other human beings, not so different from ourselves, are treated.Consider this passage, as the family tries to flee Saigon:"We climb on and claim a space of two straw mats under the deck, enough for us five to lie side by side.
Choosing the narrative verse form makes sense as the best way to tell the story of a 10 year old immigrant not fluent in English as the story begins, resulting in interesting phrases and thoughts.
What a moving story, written in verse, of a young girl and her family who came to America as refugees at the end of the Vietnam War. I learned so much about this time in history and through the story of this family saw the struggles many like them experienced in leaving their home, losing loved ones, dealing with ignorance, bullies and prejudice, the difficulty of learning English, and the huge clash of cultures and religion.
I think Thanhha Lai did a beautiful job of helping me to see the hurt and grief and also the strength and courage of refugee families.
I found it challenging and beautiful.
A young girl's heart touching story set in Saigon during Vietnam war and the family's subsequent immigration to America. Story written in free-verse style.
A strange place, where you look different, the customs are different, in addition to being poor, and not understand a single word.
A new place, where the kids do not know what to make of this olive complexion, the black hair and the hair on the arms.
They are all struggling, getting to know a new place, and new people.I read this book aloud to my daughter, the beginning is quite hard, and it is not easy (mostly for kids) to get into the book.
The step by step of Ha, learning English and how to deal with the kids around is adorable.
So good!!!!!!!! Pretty sad, though.
