https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5947.The_Collected_Works_of_Billy_the_Kid
This is a portrait of Billy the Kid as reflected in a thousand pieces of a shattered mirror. The book is composed of vignettes, poems, photos, and fragments of prose, each of which is a little stroke of brilliance and all of which together paint an incredibly rich, violent, and moving portrait of this young man and his legend. Ondaatje is quite a conjurer here.
avant-garde, postmodern, revisionist, a deconstruction, self-conscious and self-aware, prose from another planet, beautifully brutal, the kind of spikey poetry you see in some of the books of Hawke or even some DeLillo (i'm thinking Libra), the kind of book that you read and reread and remember forever.
at least this reader did.all of the above does nothing to sum up the yearning and strangeness and rightness of this underrated modern classic.i mentioned 'poetry' but i am talking about the prose.
poetic prose, yes a cliche and yes wonderful when it is done right.
the poetry captures the character perfectly.
If Billy the Kid had ever constructed a little girl's scrapbook journal which reflected on the huge themes of his life, but in simple language like stripping bare an entire mythology of a real human being and then drawing it in crayon exceptionally WELL, it would be this book.It is little.
You know, that type of brain-stuff.I don't know enough about Billy the Kid to review this book.Miss Angela D has a mouth like a beeshe eats and off all your honeyher teeth leave a sting on your very best thingand its best when she gets the best moneyThat's right-Pynchon-y, am I wrong?
But we're at the point where only impressionists can write Billy, who here says, Blood a necklace on me all my life.This is a book where a dying man's last words are, indelibly, get away from me yer stupid chicken.----- -----Sallie had a cat that got bit by a rattler; was gonna die.
Billy said he'd kill him.
And yet, Even though dead they buried him in leg irons.It's easy to be misunderstood.----- -----Dylan again, Billy, they don't like you to be so free.----- -----Get away from me yer stupid chicken.
"Get away from me yer stupid chicken."Oh man I love this book.
Billy might as well be on Mars the scenes are so strange and distinct.
There's a scene where Billy is puking during a sandstorm where the vomit is a "pack of miniature canaries" torn out of his body, buffeted by the wind, and all the while he's trying to keep the dog from going after it eating up his mess.
So throw away all the received wisdom you may have picked up regarding BTK over the years and saddle up for a ride that's slick and weird.
One of the most original books of Poetry I have ever read. Ingenious, Bold and Lachrymose.
I've taken to describing this book as "What would happen if William Faulkner wrote Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid as a poem. Concisely. In Canada."So it's no surprise that it blew me away.
Na to me zapravo motivirala ova rečenica: "I'll be with the world till she dies" koja je kod nas prevedena kao "Pamtit će me dok je svijeta." Okej, da, prijevod znači više-manje isto, ali budimo realni, istovremeno je prilično dosadna rečenica, a original to nije.To je NAJMANJI problem, zato jer knjiga u našem izdanju nije samo bila 'slabije' prevedena nego jednostavno ima grešaka.
Jedna od boljih fora je jedno malo poglavlje nakon dvadesetak stranica kojom narator (koji ima glas Billya) prezentira uvodni opis zato jer je zaključio da mu fali početak.
Da, ovo je jedna ružna, ružna, predivna knjiga koja ima, po meni, baš sve.
A book every bit as exalted and brutal as  Blood Meridian, if slightly narrower in scope; it delineates a world in which life is cheap and short, and in which legend looms large.

Poems, snippets, and pictures.Hearty. Read it twice.After shooting Gregorythis is what happenedI'd shot him well and carefulmade it explode under his heartso it wouldn't last longwas about to walk awaywhen this chicken paddles out to himand as he was falling hops on his neckdigs the beak into his throatstraightens legs and heavesa red and blue vein outMeanwhile he fell and the chicken walked awaystill tugging at the veintill it was 12 yards longas if it held that body like a kiteGregory's last words beingget away from me yer stupid chicken
My admiration for his writing craft is boundless but I will nonetheless attempt at a dispirited review of his first novel-ish publication.
This novel(ish) piece of writing takes a stab at demythologizing the outlaw/bandit/freedom fighter archetype of which, for almost a century, Billy the Kid belonged to.
Similarly (or perhaps contrarily), Billy's portrayal is at times maddeningly animalistic.
So too is Ondaatje's novel(ish).
It garners its power by oscillating amongst historical record, first person narrative, eye-witness accounts, dime-store novel, photography and most interestingly, poems which are intended to be read as if Billy the Kid wrote them (which of course he didn't).
I think, because I kind of discovered prose outside of learning, I've always viewed it as past-time more anything.
I certainly had a well-established addiction to Famous Five by the time I was in first class (seven-ish?).But never poetry.
Thinking about it like that I can understand how other kids felt about books.Although I recently found a copybook full of poems I wrote about aged ten, but I think that was instigated by some competition in school.
There's no motivation like prizes.So I have this thing where my eyes start to skitter past lines if I'm tackling something heavy.
Because it's half poetry, half short-form prose.
I don’t see why you need my views on it.But since you ask.I do not claim to be an authority on poetry - least of all the experimental kind.
It’s just that experimental poetry that gets my dander up.But Billy is another story.
Its like you been riding out on the dry plain all day and opening this book is like a cold beer with a whiskey chaser.
Part imagination part reportage - which is another type of imagination alltogether - this book strikes at the truth that lives between the fancy and the fact.
So much that after I finished, I spent some time reading about Billy the Kid's life, and then started rereading Ondaatje's book.
This is one of those books that, like Anne Carson's Autobiography of Red, blurs the lines between novel and poetry.
It needs to be savored slowly, and it's a book that doesn't seem to come together until you get to the end and then take the time to reread it.
I love how playful Ondaatje is, how funny and tragic and lovely he is in this book at different turns.
I just love this book, and know I'll be rereading it several more times in my lifetime.
If you're looking for something along the lines of The True History of the Kelly Gang or even Lonesome Dove, this ain't that. There were bits in this mishmash that worked, but the overall effect was too disjointed and maybe even self-indulgent to make for a satisfying read. Then again, it's Ondaatje, and Annie Dillard and Larry McMurtry blurbed it, so maybe I failed the author rather than the other way around.
if you are interested in experimental poetry or billy the kid, this book is for you, but since i know nothing about either i found this super jumbled and confusing
Truly bizarre and unexpected.
"I'll be with the world till she dies."So says William Bonney in Michael Ondaatje's impressionistic, avant-garde novel about the West's most mythologized outlaw.In this postmodern experiment with poetry, fragmented narrative, and photography, Ondaatje mines the essence, if not the facts, of Billy the Kid, using atmosphere, language, and form.
The narrative sections can be dense, tangly bits of writing, difficult to follow on a literal level but potent with atmosphere.
Comically, even the library I borrowed it from had it shelved alongside The Collected Works of Edgar Allan Poe, as if this actually represented the sum literary efforts of Billy the Kid.Instead, Ondaatje has given us the book that Billy should have written.
THE COLLECTED WORKS OF BILLY THE KID BY MICHAEL ONDAATJE: From the author of The English Patient, Michael Ondaatje, comes one of his first published works, now available in paperback featuring a new afterword by the author: The Collected Works of Billy the Kid.A short book of only 130-odd pages, it features a collection of stream of consciousness poetry, prose, and photographs surrounding the legend of Billy the Kid. In the afterword Ondaatje discusses how he began collecting pieces about Billy the Kid early on in his career, researching what he could, and writing short pieces of poetry, imagining what Billy the Kid (also known as William Bonney) was actually like.
A slim but gorgeous, highly experimental work, The Collected Works of Billy the Kid follows, somewhat disjointedly, the life of the famous outlaw and a bit of his legend, too.
Through a mixture of Ondaatje's unparalleled poetry (he is undoubtedly the most under-appreciated poet in the English-speaking world) and his equally moving, memorable prose, the reader drifts in and out of Billy's mind, his experiences, and the perspectives of the people who knew and loved him.
I have wracked my brain, no joke - I actually whipped out a thesaurus in an attempt to find a word that might adequately describe Michael Ondaatje's Collected Works of Billy the Kid, but to no avail.
No, Ondaatje's book of poems inspired by the infamous American outlaw is something else entirely.
Writing from several perspectives, including that of Billy himself, Ondaatje completely transforms and retransforms himself so that he seems to have completely evolved into each character he is writing as.
The content is so well-researched and so well-imagined at the same time, a fine line that Ondaatje manages to tread dead-on.
Read this book and read it again.
This is the book that got Tom Romano thinking about incorporating multigenre research in his high school classes, and it's easy to see why he found it so inspiring.
(Interesting side note: In a new afterword Ondaatje reveals that he did almost no outside research prior to or during writing.
He based his writing on the two facts he knew – that Billy the Kid was 21 when he died, and he had killed 21 people.
Virtually everything else is Ondaatje's invention, contrary to what Romano thought).
The combination of poems, short narrative bursts, newspaper interviews, and photos creates an image of the outlaw that's almost impressionistic in nature.
Traditional novels starring legendary figures out of history often fill in too many of the blanks, either inflating the legend further with far-fetched inventions or deflating the legend with mundane, unnecessary details.
This book does not try to fill in all the spaces, it's a brief assemblage of images and graphic episodes.
It's imperfect and difficult to follow, but so was Billy the Kid. I love his ugly-ass smiling portrait.Ondaatje did this same exercise with Buddy Bolden, the seminal jazz trumpeter of New Orleans.
He should probably do one on some notable prostitute, that way he could have a trilogy of prose poem/fuzzy photograph collages of the scruffy characters of yore Americans lionize (artist/outlaw/prostitute).
I think I've read this book a hundred times.
A poetry teacher in high-school introduced me to it.
I'd never read anything so gritty and sensual and amusing.
When I was a child I used to play Frank and Jessie James with my best-friend; Billy the Kid was one of our imaginary pals.
So reading him come to life on the page in Ondaatje's slim volume blew open my idea of what one was allowed to write about.
I attended Glendon College because it said on the back of the book that was where Ondaatje taught.
A terrible lecturer, my favourite writer.
This is a great book.
Ondaatje mixes genres here, such as poetry, prose, interviews, and news clippings.
It creates a collage that is intended to portray the mind of Billy the Kid, and is tender and brutal at the same time.
I really love this book.
I re-read passages numerous times just to float in the imagery and soak it up.
I can't say I came away from my first reading understanding what Ondaatje is doing all of the time.
Overall, again, a great book, and I will be reading it again.
"His stomach was warm remembered this when I put my hand into a pot of luke warm tea to wash it outdragging out the stomach to get the bullethe wanted to see when taking teawith Sallie Chisum in Paris TexasWith Sallie Chisum in Paris Texashe wanted to see when taking teadragging out the stomach to get the bulleta pot of luke warm tea to wash it outremembered this when I put my hand intohis stomach was warm"Who thought we could know Billy the Kid so intimately through poetry and photographs?...
When I started reading this small volume of interspersed poetry amongst clarifying prose I disliked the poetry portion. However once I focused on the multi-layered perceptions of Billy the Kid the poetry became his voice in a way that the prose could not.An example:One morning woke upCharlie was cookingand we ate not talkingbut sniffing windwind so fineit was like drinking etherWithin the poetry Ondaatje's punctuation is eratic, but the more I read the more I realized that Billy was eratic and Ondaatje had gotten into Billy's head.
I must admit that I found the poetry a little bit hard to absorb, and the whole time I was reading I kept wondering what my ex-boyfriend (a poet) would think about it. The prose, on the other hand was wonderful, and I wish there had been more of both because by the time I got used to the two together, the book was over. So many reviewers here talk about re-reading, and I think I may have to do so myself.
This is the first of Ondaatje's experimental-type books, and...it never quite comes together. A lot of the prose is solid (and in his afterword, he says it's the first prose he wrote to publish; I find this surprising, but hey, it's a good start). The poetry has good bits and bad. But, as I said, the work as a whole never quite comes together for me.
