https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/836301.By_Myself
Reading this was sort of like reading everything Lauren Bacall wished she’d said to people her entire life.It is not as entertaining to hear someone else’s would-have-saids as it is to hear my own.The other issue I have with this book is that it falls into this ditch of crappy storytelling wherein she recounts the overall events that happened throughout entire years, but without any actual story.
I couldn’t really get a good sense of it, though, because a lot of that seemed like she might have been too hard on herself and feeling some kind of survivor guilt for not being there every second of every family member’s life.

As of late I’ve been enjoying Lauren Bacall’s cheery, bubbly autobiography “By Myself” and I don’t want the book to end, but I’m crawling slowly to the finish line.
It’s different than my critical approach to a work and I don’t believe that there is something to get out of a biography thinking critically about it, not the way you would do a novel.Obviously, “By Myself” is geared towards a different generation, whose members have been at one point exposed to the names bombed heavily through the book’s pages.
However, there was not just the infidelity that complicated things, there was a considerable age difference between the two, with Bogart twenty-five years older than Bacall.
That section of the book with its quiet, gruesome detail, is very moving.Bacall includes sections on her struggle to become a star, lots of name dropping from her days in Hollywood and the social circle that she and Bogey were a part of (Judy Garland, Cole Porter and Frank Sinatra were friends), details on the beginning of the Rat Pack and the Blacklist that began in 1947.
But the true touchstone of the book is the relationship she had with Bogey and his later death.

I found Lauren Bacall to be a pretty good writer and she was able to hold my attention throughout the book.
It was interesting to me exactly just how much everyone seemed to drink alcohol back then and all the get-togethers and parties they were able to have.I read this book because I had an interest in Lauren Bacall and Humphrey Bogart and I wasn't disappointed in learning their history through her recollection.This is the 1978, Borzoi Book published by Alfred A.
Knopf, Inc. that I read as it my understanding there are other editions out there.
Are either of them feminist icons?It was when just finishing off Lauren Bacall's autobiography “By Myself” when the above story broke.
Yet The New Look, as embodied by The Look (Bacall's seminal own contribution to post-War fashion) never went out.Bacall's autobiography, “By Myself”, is a book by a real feminist icon.
Bogart, sixty years on from his death, is still an icon (though not quite a feminist one).There is always important stuff missing from biographies and autobiographies and we pour over them struggling to fill up the gaps, to add local colour.
Her straight-forward, candid writing was engaging. She openly discussed her experiences on stage and in film, her insecurities, and her marriage to Humphrey Bogart and later, Jason Robard.I enjoyed this memoir.
Granted, this first part of her memoirs was published in the late 1970s, but Bogie had been dead for over 20 years by that point, and she still connected her ultimate happiness to being in a relationship.
For being such a strong woman, she didn't seem to believe in herself very much.And of course the whole book seemed like an exercise in narcissism, but that's probably unavoidable given the topic (actress) and the format (autobiography).
I also found out as I was reading this that Bacall was my grandmother's favorite actress, so it was especially bittersweet for me.
Marrying Humphrey Bogart, her costar, only added to the glamour.Of course, that magical part of her life lasted only until Bogie's death 13 years after she first met him.
There were many ups and downs after, but Bacall toughs it out, makes a relatively few more good movies, but also becomes a star on Broadway, her original dream.
There is the feeling that Bacall paints herself in a better light at times, but she does reveal some of the warts too, such as her propensity for married men, holding a grudge for perceived slights, and excusing some of her own behavior.Overall, a fascinating look into Lauren Bacall's life, the movie industry as it was back in her day, and the times in which she lived.
I really liked this book and it was refreshing to read about Lauren Bacall's life in her own words.
She has always been an actress that I have admired and I love her movies.
It was beautifully written and it's obvious, how deeply she loved him.
There is another "version" of this book called "By Myself And Then Some" which in all honesty is the book I read but that version just includes extra information toward the back and quite frankly, I think they could have just left well enough alone with this one.
I'm adding a few books I read long ago, just for the sake of completeness. I remember really enjoying this one. Guessing on the "date read." Sometime in the 80s.
Ms Bacall is an earnest writer and I was pleased with her well written memoirs which begins with a brief background of her family and ends with life as a single middle aged woman with two marriages behind her.
Per Bacall, he was the adult to the young, inexperienced girl she was and molded her into the strong willed woman she later became, often patiently taking her crushes on other men in stride.
Her best friend, confidante and one-woman cheering squad was both mother and father to Betty after the marriage fell apart when Betty was very young.
- since it was first published, and wanted to read it again, after Lauren Bacall passed away, to get new perspective.
My favorite part of the book concerned Lauren's - Betty's - romance and life with Humphrey Bogart, including the ups and downs of that once-in-a-lifetime love.
With all of the extra chapters on her political activities during the oppressive blacklisting years, Bogart's decline in health, other romances, and her stage career - this book is possibly the most engaging of her autobiographies.
My recommendation is that if you read Bacall's autobiographies, do so chronologically.
Impossible to rate this book now. I read it when I was very young and it had first come out. I was completely obsessed with film noir, and Bacall's tough femininity and "cheekbones like geometry" were an important part of the appeal. I was amazed to read of Bacall's sense of vulnerability and insecurity as a stunningly beautiful young woman, not to mention the contingent happiness of marriage to the much older Bogart. There was so much to think about in this book, for this 19 year old reader.
I can't complain about this book too much...Ms Bacall comes across as pretty forthright throughout and is very candid about her life and work. Her description of her early life is particularly fascinating, as is her account of life post-Bogie. I snagged this one at a library book sale, and it was more than worth the price, enough that I am looking for a copy of the updated edition. If you're at all a fan of film, it's worth your time and attention.
Very surprised I liked it. She shows a definitive lack of moral fiber that probably is and was prevalent in Hollywood and Broadway. I love her descriptions of others (especially Spence and Kate). I wonder what was going on with Adlai Stevenson (seemed a little weird to me). I wonder if Frank Sinatra and Jason Robarb's were actually as big a jerks as depicted?
An interesting read. Bacall tells all in her memoir. The highs and lows of being married to Humphrey Bogart for 11 years until his death in 1957, and then her eight-year marriage to Jason Robard. And in between her two marriages a romance with Frank Sinatra that almost ended up in marriage. She also spoke of her time in theater and movies, plus raising her three children.
#66 of 120 books pledged to read during 2018
What a hoot she was!
I really did enjoy this book, I do love Lauren Bacall. she explained her whole life in this from her start to Warner Brothers, her relationship with bogie, the studio and Howard hawks. it showed the story of success. towards the end I did get bored and started skipping the pages. it's still a very good book that I can say I could read over and over and never get tired of it.
Admittedly i was surprised by the people who mention that she's "name dropping" and not talking about her children in a lot of detail.
My first comment: I think its great that she is sharing the names of everyone she met and everyone she knew.
The wonderful woman we know and love.
Chaplins' autobiography name drops too, but its interesting to see who met and knew who.
When i finished reading i felt i had lived with her through all her troubles and been there for the good times too.
You'll still find a lot of great books at your public library, and specifically memoirs & biographies, so I encourage you to look for it there if you don't want to buy it.
This is a good book for persons who want to read about old hollywood, and Ms. Bacall's interactions with those persons she came to know, as well as information about her own life as an actor.
It's not a good book for persons who want to know about the author's life as a wife and mother, or about personal details involving her relationships with the children she had.
I enjoyed reading this book by Lauren Bacall about the first half of her life.
She spent a great deal of time separating the human from the image as it related to both herself and those she loved who were also in show business.
She is a woman of her time and profession who finds true professional gratification at the end of the book while still searching for a significant companion for the second half of her life.
Although the book was written almost four decades ago in never seems dated, just representative of it's time.
When I picked it up for closer inspection and discovered it was an autobiography by Lauren Bacall, I had to have it.
It was through this book, that I learned more about Lauren's family life, her marriages to Humphrey Bogart and Jason Robards and how different they were.
I also learned that Bacall's trademark as "The Look" which was the effect of her pressing her chin against her chest and then faced the camera with eyes tilted upward.
In this context, I was able to glean Lauren's feelings and interpretations of what was happening at that time in her life.
An extraordinary life & events as Bogie's wife and friend to Hollywood legends Judy Garland, Frank Sinatra, most of them the Bogarts' neighbors.
As irresistible as it sounds, every woman who reads this will ask herself, Should she have married Bogie?
But an outstanding memoir/auto biography, exceptionally written, about a special group of American actors and their influence around the world.
For a good girl who was close to her mother, Bacall was daring in her many rendezvous with Bogie when he was married.
Bogart broke up with her for a while and returned to his wife.
What would have happened if Bogart hadn't left his wife and married Bacall.
While a fan of black and white movies and the stars that appeared in them, Bacall is an actress that seems to have passed me by.
Her engaging and witty writing style makes you feel like you're having a conversation with an old friend.
Yet By Myself resulted in having more questions left to be asked, her role of mother and actress seem to jar - actress coming off time and time again as her favorite, yet consonantly questioning why her children might have had issues or been distant with her, declaring her life was spent on too many other peoples demands when all the time it seemed acting was everything.
I found Bacall's writing style jerky and abrupt and tedious to read for long periods.
The book was far too long for me and could have used some heavy editing.
On the other hand, the story of her discovery by Hollywood and her life with Bogie was fascinating, and, particularly in the early parts of the book, her ear for a good anecdote was spot on.
I also found her insights (and sometimes lack of insights) into her own life and marriage and others around her very interesting.
Overall, an interesting read (at least the first half), but not a keeper for me.
What a beautifully written story of the life of Lauren Bacall.
Bacall had a lovely upbringing.
She came from a close knit Jewish family.
Bacall’s mother was an extraordinary loving and supportive woman.
As a little girl Bacall falls in love with the big screen.
She dates many Hollywood hunks, including Frank Sinatra, but ends up in a fairytale romance with Humphrey Bogart.
Despite the difference in age, Bogart and Bacall fall in love and live out their romance till Bogart’s death.
They shared 11 lovely years and two children.After Bogart’s death Bacall talks about the struggles of life “by herself”.
Surprisingly well-written and engaging autobiography of Betty "Lauren" Bacall. The book contains highly interesting "behind-the-scenes" information about the theatre and film-making, and the stress of both. Bacall describes the contrasts between New York and Los Angeles in the 1940s and 50s so well, using small things as examples. You come to know and root for her family and friends, but she doesn't gloss them over: she describes their foibles as well as her own. The illness and death of the wonderful Humphrey Bogart is heartbreaking, as is her youthful struggle to cope with both his love and his loss.
