https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12319445-shogun-part-1
Shogun is a great read that provides insight into Japanese culture and politics but it isn't great literature.On a recent episode of This American Life, Stephanie Foo tells the story of a Japanese man, Nasubi, who endured 15 months of starvation, deprivation and isolation for a reality TV show.
However, a thorough and compelling exploration of Japanese politics and culture courses through it all and elevates it to a story worth reading.For example, Shogun showed me how important duty was to these Japanese of that time.
If you're looking for compelling plots, rich characters or great literature in general you can pass it up.
His experiences there led him to find out what kind of people the Japanese were and how they could be so cruel to their prisoners.
To some extent his books answer his question in a way that I thought would have surprised him - the Code of Bushido has no place for prisoners but there was honour and duty and 'a code' in the Japanese Army.
I still remember the samurai who was so dangerous that even as he prepared himself for ritual death at his own hands (seppuku), the ring or warriors kneeling around him gripped the handles of their swords tightly in case he attacked.
I remember when I was still in school; there was a question which was occasionally being asked in our exams-Who colonized Kenya?A. Britain B. PortugalC. Spain D. FranceYes, the British colonized Kenya. First they arrived like Missionaries. Their aim, to spread the word of God. They found our religion, if we had one, apathetic. They wanted to shine the light into our dark hearts, clean us of our cultural filth.Salesmen will tell you that, all they need is to get a foot inside the door and they wi
They build schools, hospitals, roads, railway line etc.We gained independence in the year 1963 after the Mau Mau war.Reading Shogun, brings back those memories as Japan tries to establish and maintain stability through their leaders, in the empire.
They also brought with them Catholicism, with the aim of converting the heathens in Japan.So now, the country has to try and maintain peace among their leaders, keep close watch of the barbarians and Christians, ensure the growth of the empire and maintain their culture.An epic historical saga!The events take place in Japan!I have so many times wanted to drop this book and get another one because: It's big, it's historical, it's cultural, it's adventurous, it's religious etc.Yes, I know what you are thinking, that these are more reasons to read than to abandon it!
So far it’s not as good as Tai-Pan, but good enough to keep going. It’s probably better than the TV miniseries version, but I suspect that I was easy to impress when I was 12.
The main character is John Blackthorne, an English pilot of a dutch ship who is shipwrecked and stranded in late sixteenth century Japan.
If I were to place this book on the historical fiction continuum, I would fit it between the works of John Jakes (good story telling, though corny, and more couplings than a soap opera) and Herman Wouk.
I can't justly compare this novel to one of my favorite historical fiction series (The Sharpe Series by Bernie Cornwell), mainly because the Sharpe books are short action packed stories, while this novel tells a long intricate story, punctuated by occasional action scenes.Overall, I found this to be a good read and I wonder if a better novel about Japan exists?
I thought I will never find something like Shantaram again but I somehow did find it in Shogun although both have their differences as well as similarities.
Another thing that I really liked in the book was that it gave a very good insight at what has actually been happening during the colonization, not only in Japan but all over the world.I was a bit bored in the beginning of the book but everything fell into place the moment Mariko came in the picture!
The insight it gives at the Japanese culture is priceless.
Beginning volume II at once!
My favourite of the Asian series by the late James Clavell. The author knew Asia and Japan well and describes feudal Japan in wonderful detail. The characters are absorbing and your almost sorry when the book ends. I have read this more than once and enjoy it every..
I have been thinking that editors have been getting worse as time goes by, but I'm not sure there was an editor for this book.
The priests are evil and interfering some of the time and then a few chapters later they are nice.
I am of that age of women who loved Richard Chamberlain (Dr. Kildare), so I had to watch the made for TV movie after completing the book.
And I laughed out loud at some scenes that weren't supposed to be funny, but all in all both the book and movie were a fun walk down memory lane.
This was abandoned, not finished.I was initially thrilled and excited about this book.
Surely this will be a rollicking good time!But it rollicked on and on and on, violence and death and the same episodic pattern of conflict and intrigue and boring politics.
Their internal lives are the flat array of desires and prejudices and stereotypes needed to move whatever immanent rollicking episode toward dramatic conclusion.
Blackthorne's transformation from brute to sensitive soul seems to come in service of immediate dramatic requirements, rather than organically.An unconvincing, boring novel.
It was abandoned without regret.
I don't often enjoy historical fiction (a personal preference for biographies and historical NON-fiction) but Shogun was a very engaging and fascinating tale.
I enjoyed how the book begins from Blackthorne's perspective and ends with Toranaga's.
Clavell uses the 1200+ pages of this epic adventure to tell various, yet intertwining, stories...and he writes from the perspective of many different characters, men and woman, Japanese and foreigner.
I found the ending to be rather anti-climatic, which is why I am holding back 1 star in my rating.
I felt a bit cheated at the end with the somewhat rushed finale and the vague lack of resolution.
There might be a story worth reading somewhere in here, but there was way too much unimportant and dull dialogue for me to continue. I made it about 10% through and gave up - I would have loved more focus on progressing the story, though I did enjoy the parts about Japanese culture, but there was a serious lack of editing that killed my interest. Based on the plot synopsis I read, I think I'd enjoy a 300-400 page version instead of this 1000+ page version.
Страхотен разказ за войните за власт във феодална Япония.. Интересно,динамично,напрегнато написана книга,която те кара да се интересуваш и да търсиш още и още... Такива машинации,изкусно оплетени схеми, интриги и подмолност...изглежда Клавел е сложил Мартин в малкия си джоб още през седемдесетте.. И все още съм само до средата! Завиждам си!!
This book said a lot more about late 20th century America than Imperial Japan at the dawn of the 17th century, but its plot was compelling enough and it gave me enough Richard CHamberlain flashbacks for me to finish.
Incredible insight into the Japanese culture before the European invasion.
Captivating even for someone not interested in Asia.
This is a memorable book. The torture scene still haunts me.
Really consuming book and original script, James Clavell is really gifted writer, I learned alot from the book about the traditions of Japan.
Mentalitatea japoneză m-a lăsat cu "gura căscată". Şi mi-a plăcut că abia la sfârşit se menţionează legătura titlului cu toată acţiunea.
Magnificent.
I'm loving it, I'm starting the second volume right now.
Desigur, nici un barbar nu putea fi aşezat pe una din aceste trepte.””Unii dintre samurai aveau pieptare de oţel, dar cei mai mulţi purtau chimonouri simple, cum se chemau halatele lor, şi cele două săbii.
E atât de frumos și niciodată nu o să mai fie la fel, niciodată, nu acest apus de soare, niciodată, între atâtea nenumărate apusuri.
Lasă-te contopit cu el, fii una cu natura și nu-ți mai face griji în legătură cu karma, a dumitale, a mea, sau a altora."„Eu n-am spus decât ca am văzut cum se sorbeau din ochi unul pe celălalt și era atât de frumos să-i privești.Despre trupurile lor nu știu,părinte,și,de fapt,nu-mi pasă.
Shogun - On A Revisit I am glad that I decided on a reread of one of my favorite novels.
Given the limitation of TV production in time and scope, the layers of complexity in the story and the characters were understandably sacrificed.
Reading Shogun again, I could appreciate anew the deep motivation of the characters and the multiple layers of the storyline.
On the reread the complex layers reemerge.
We have here an appealing story of adventure, populated with strong characters set against the backdrop of an ancient culture.
What more can the adventure reader ask for?
Shōgun no es una mala novela.
Sin embargo, hay un problema sustancial que, por ratos, convierte a este libro (o al menos a la primera parte) en una narración densa y aburrida.
Tal vez se trate de que no es una novela para cualquier persona; sólo para aquellos que disfrutan de libros ridículamente densos y específicos.
Personalmente, el libro grosso modo fue una experiencia relativamente entretenida.
Daré un descanso a la novela y la comenzaré cuando esté un poco despejado de este primer monstruo que acabo de devorar.
This book is like a highly magnified version of an astoundingly beautiful haiku.
It is a fictionalized historical narrative that imbibes the very essence of poetry.
Lord Toranaga (modeled from 16th century shogun Tokugawa leyasu) is an encyclopedia of leadership, strategy and the art of living in a destined job.
Along with the many layers of narrative with falconry equated with leadership, nature with human emotion, fleeting existence of life with everlasting miracles of human expression, we also get a thread of Karma that passes every so slightly through everything and everyone.This is a must read and I will surely be re-reading this next year.
Exceptional book!
I greatly enjoyed Clavell's depiction of the Samurai and the Japanese culture.
From my preliminary research it seems to be based on sound history.
The writing style of the book brings the ready into the atmosphere of 1600 century Japan along the journey of the primary protagonist.
Whether intentional or not this book also is a comment on the pervasive spread of religion by Western European nations and how closely conquest and trade were tied with these same religions.
If you enjoy historical fiction and are in any way interested in the Japanese culture I would advise this book.
"Karma e karma. Aminteşte-ţi în linişte că Absolutul, Tao, este în tine, că nici un preot, sau cult, sau dogmă, sau carte, sau zicere, sau învăţătură, sau dascăl, nu stă între Tine şi El. Află că Binele şi Răul nu au importanţă, Eu şi Tu nu are importanţă, Înăuntru sau Afară nu au importanţă, ca şi Viaţa şi Moartea. Pătrunde în Sferă, unde nu este teamă de moarte sau speranţă în viaţade apoi, unde eşti eliberat de necazurile vieţii sau de nevoia de salvarea sufletului. Eşti tu însuţi Tao. Fii t
"Karma e karma.
Aminteşte-ţi în linişte că Absolutul, Tao, este în tine, că nici un preot, sau cult, sau dogmă, sau carte, sau zicere, sau învăţătură, sau dascăl, nu stă între Tine şi El. Află că Binele şi Răul nu au importanţă, Eu şi Tu nu are importanţă, Înăuntru sau Afară nu au importanţă, ca şi Viaţa şi Moartea.
Pătrunde în Sferă, unde nu este teamă de moarte sau speranţă în viaţade apoi, unde eşti eliberat de necazurile vieţii sau de nevoia de salvarea sufletului.
Eşti tu însuţi Tao. Fii tu însuţi, acum, o piatră de care se izbesc zadarnic valurile vieţii."
A long, but very good read. In so far that it's historically true (I haven't done the research), Shogun paints a wonderfully diverse picture of Japanese culture and society, its relationship with the two dominant branches of Christianity (Catholic and Protestant) and how viciously the Christians hated each other, and most interestingly, the men and women Samurais. The strong Samurai women stood up to their liege lords to become critical characters in the novel.The world of 17th century Japan was a fascinating place to inhabit for the length of the read.
I read this many years ago, but I remember it as a really, really good book. I like historical novels, but only if they really describe the times -- in this case the time in Japanese history when the country was ruled by various warlords. I learned a great deal about Japan before Admiral Perry dragged them out of their isolation and into the modern world. It's a very well-written and informative book. Highly recommended for history novel buffs.
I started on volume 2 (accidentally) and got a quarter of the way through before I realized it. I went back and read volume 1 and it is making a bit more sense now :) The details are incredible and I read that James Clavell had been a POW-- which makes sense on the intricate knowledge he has of the culture. A stunning portrayal of how different cultures can be-- and what is normal to our culture can be absolutely crazy to another culture.
There are books that change your way of thinking. This book is one of those. So save it for when you have the patience for a long book and tolerance for dramatic love affairs and larger-than-life characters, but it's worth reading, more accurate than you might think, and surprisingly compelling. Just expect to hold your nose through the first few hundred pages until the story really starts.
