https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109774.Science_and_Sanity
Each time I think about a problem in my life or in the world I remember what I learned in this book.In addition to the other factors making this book a difficult read is the author's application of mathematics and physics to explain, illustrate and justify his concepts.
I was lucky I enjoy reading about math and physics, while not having studied much of the subjects in school.I consider this book the most valuable member of my book collection, and it has profoundly influenced many aspects of my life.
Korzybski's insight into the importance of language/semantics/reasoning is without equal.That said, it is the one of the most difficult-to-read books I have ever run across.
This stems from two principle problems.
This no doubt made his explanations harder to structure.
And secondly, I believe there is always going to be an inherent problem in using words to discuss words.
No doubt especially true if one is building up a complex schemata.Fascinating subject.
(See General Semantics @ Wiki) And if you can slog through the book and grasp the concepts, you will never think the same again.
Not for the faint of heart, this is a 900 page book packed to the brim with linguistic insight. If you have no previous background with semantics or linguistics philosophy, you might want to read "Language in thought and action" or "tyranny of words", as well as Korzybski's "Manhood of Humanity," first. Once you embark upon this journey, your disposition in life will never be the same, that i can guarantee.
Korzybski lays down what is wrong with our education, thought, speech and scientific practices and then describes what we need to do to fix it.
These ideas have changed the way I think, write and speak to people and have given voice to the nagging feeling I have always had that we have been doing everything fundamentally wrong.I agree with other reviews that say this can be a difficult book to read.
When discussing ideas as fundamental as these, our normal language fails and this is part of what Korzybski is saying - we need new language and new tools to approach these concepts.
As has been noted in other reviews, this is not a book for the faint-hearted. I read all of it (save the appendices) back in the sixties and was very impressed. Some of the hard science is very dated, so you have to filter much of that out. The book definitely had an effect on the way I think about things. I found that Harry L. Weinberg's Levels of Knowing and Existence to be much a more accessible work on the subject. S&S was more of a textbook/source-book/reference, and not really aimed at a general audience.
This is one of the most important books I've read.
The concepts in it have become very important to my outlook on life.
The reason I'm not giving it 5 stars is that, honestly, it is almost unreadable for modern humans.
It is very academic.
You can guess that any book that starts off with 100 pages of references just in the introduction, before it even starts, isn't going to be an easy reader.
But it is well worth it.
I wish that General Semantics had truly caught on.
Particularly, as indicated in the title, within the practice of science.
I read it age 14 and it felt like I was wandering around inside my home, it also changed me and how I understand language, cognition, misinterpretation, misunderstanding, manipulation and religion.

I started reading this online. Many interesting studies point back to it.If you are interested in the concept of paradigm shifts, this book may give you some interesting insights.I had a link posted here in this review because I found a free version of it online and I thought it was now in the public domain. The last time I checked the link was invalid, so I removed it.If you find another link to it or discover whether it's actually available for free please let us know. Unfortunately, I don't have time to check right now.
a daunting task...
It's not an easy read - but well worth it. 'Science and Sanity' changed my relationship with language radically.
The book that started it all (neurolinguistic programming)
I found the language difficult to understand and overly repetitive.
Was my problem because the language of science, metaphysics and psychiatry really that different then?
I understand that it is implying that we need to address language in a much fuller way.
We need to understand the emotional response that we have to language because of our experiences in developing our response.
This is done by allowing enough time for the emotional portion of the response to rise to the surface and be identified so that you don't just react to something you hear without knowing why your response came out the way it did.
science and sanity is actually the antidote to many philosophies that uses confusions in their understanding of language to create meaningless questions, and respond with meaningless answers.
People make mistakes when they generalize and confuse orders of abstraction, because those mistakes are beneficial to them.
I disagree that language is that which creates a discrepancy between technological advancement, and social advancement.
It is not language that is lagging, but it's economic understanding, that creates this imbalance.
Korzybski puts too much importance on language, and in doing so forgets economics.
This is one of the first books that I read on epistemology of non-Euclidean geometry, post-aristotelian logic systems(multi-valued/fuzzy logic) and introduced me to mathematical systems that started my quest onto Base-12 mathematics, triangular mathematics and Neurolingustic Programming.When I first read thus book, I sought-out to improve my verbal-currency and communication. What I got from it was a prerequisite to the meta-model of NLP and the ability to delay my reactions when interacting with other people.
This book is my #1 must read for all. It is a incredible tool for assisting the will to govern the mind instead of the other way around.
The fact that "The Art of Awareness" by Samuel Bois is a very accessible, shorter summary of this, doesn't take away from this book. This book examines the fundamentals of thinking, ranging from the basic senses, to mathematics, to psychology. Applicable to every moment of waking life.
I keep a print xeroxed next to my bed-top: I stare it every night: I've blazed it ever since I saw! My top-of-the-list.
Korzybski tells us talking crazy makes us crazy. Therefore talk sane, be sane. Sane speak will actually heal your nervous system. Sane speak is less in certainties and more in abstractions. Crazy speak is. Sane speak seems.
This magnum opus could be taught to 2 year old children - the result would be a radically different world from that which we now know.It is said that some think and speak in ways which change the world. That hypothetical speculation simply must include Korzybski.
The seminal work in the study of semantics. Not for the fainthearted. Detailed and dry, but a mind opener if you can bear with it.
A curiosity, to be read with other books of its decade.
It comes highly recommended from a friend.
Although I couldn't make it all the way through this book when I tried in my teens, I remember being awed by some of the ideas presented in this weighty tome (those that I could understand).
This is a book that I want to read again every single year - it has a lifetime's worth of knowledge that I hope to grasp even a tiny fraction of.
General Semantics is a system for integrating the multi-ordinal processes of our cognition and expression. An intimidating book, but well worth it.
One of the most important books of all time, which is severely under-read and under-referenced (despite some nonsense of that time inside it).
