https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28484564-tutt-and-mr-tutt
I heard a story on NPR about the literary character of Ephraim Tutt, a merciful lawyer who took on cases for people of little means or standing.
Arthur Train wrote these very popular stories in the first half of the 20th century, and in the early 1940s published an "Autobiography of Emphraim Tutt" that was an early literary hoax.
It is 348 pages.I expected a heart-warming but serious "David-takes-on-Goliath" type book, where the merciful attorney takes on influential people on behalf of his disadvantaged clients and wins through superior knowledge of the law and courtroom skill.
But the book is very good-hearted and a surprisingly fun read.
For readers of today, their enjoyment of the stories in Tutt and Mr. Tutt will depend on their taste for that type of writing and their willingness to tolerate some material that often relies on rather crude racial stereotypes.The Mr. Tutt in these stories is a somewhat elderly and crotchety but highly gifted criminal trial attorney named Ephraim Tutt, who bears a considerable resemblance to Clarence Darrow insofar as his choice of cases is concerned.
All the while, the various Chinese characters act and talk like they came off the set of a Charlie Chan movie of the 1930’s.Readers’ enjoyment of Tutt and Mr. Tutt will probably depend on their tolerance and appreciation for Train’s style of writing.
Clever and humorous stories of fictional court cases defended by the incomparable Mr. Tutt. Delightfully, the good guy nearly always wins!
This book exceeded my tolerance limits by a LOT, and I could only last through 2 stories.In the first story the client was an Italian American man who killed his wife's former boyfriend, who kept harassing her.
We often forget today the prejudice there was against Italians in the first part of the 20th century, but this story REALLY brought it out.
For readers of today, their enjoyment of the stories in Tutt and Mr. Tutt will depend on their taste for that type of writing and their willingness to tolerate some material that often relies on rather crude racial stereotypes.The Mr. Tutt in these stories is a somewhat elderly and crotchety but highly gifted criminal trial attorney named Ephraim Tutt, who bears a considerable resemblance to Clarence Darrow insofar as his choice of cases is concerned.
All the while, the various Chinese characters act and talk like they came off the set of a Charlie Chan movie of the 1930’s.Readers’ enjoyment of Tutt and Mr. Tutt will probably depend on their tolerance and appreciation for Train’s style of writing.
For readers of today, their enjoyment of the stories in Tutt and Mr. Tutt will depend on their taste for that type of writing and their willingness to tolerate some material that often relies on rather crude racial stereotypes.The Mr. Tutt in these stories is a somewhat elderly and crotchety but highly gifted criminal trial attorney named Ephraim Tutt, who bears a considerable resemblance to Clarence Darrow insofar as his choice of cases is concerned.
All the while, the various Chinese characters act and talk like they came off the set of a Charlie Chan movie of the 1930’s.Readers’ enjoyment of Tutt and Mr. Tutt will probably depend on their tolerance and appreciation for Train’s style of writing.
For readers of today, their enjoyment of the stories in Tutt and Mr. Tutt will depend on their taste for that type of writing and their willingness to tolerate some material that often relies on rather crude racial stereotypes.The Mr. Tutt in these stories is a somewhat elderly and crotchety but highly gifted criminal trial attorney named Ephraim Tutt, who bears a considerable resemblance to Clarence Darrow insofar as his choice of cases is concerned.
All the while, the various Chinese characters act and talk like they came off the set of a Charlie Chan movie of the 1930’s.Readers’ enjoyment of Tutt and Mr. Tutt will probably depend on their tolerance and appreciation for Train’s style of writing.
This book was simply entertaining. A series of short stories with the same attorney. I enjoyed this immensely. Not a deep read, but certainly a fun one.
He fell victim to one of the three classic blunders, the first of which is never get involved in a land war in asia. But only slightly less well known is this: Never overdo it when you lean on racial and ethnic stereotypes for humor.
Synopsis: more stories about lawyer Ephraim Tutt who was happy to forego his fee to fight for the little guy.
An anthology of short stories about the inestimable Ephraim Tutt and his partner Tutt.
These two lawyers win every case put before them despite what might be considered an open-and-shut case for the prosecution.
Using their wits and the law, even obscure law, they get a man off for murder, protect citizens from unscrupulous businessmen, and more.Originally published in 1920, the language is of such complexity and even somewhat archaic to the present that this reader was glad that it was read in an e-book format so that the complex words could be looked up.
Nearly a century later, I'd never heard of Train or his characters.So...First, there's some racist language in the stories that might be off-putting, with references to "Chinks" and "niggers".
I read the first three of the seven stories in this collection; by that point I just didn't want to spend any more time in the characters' company.Third and finally...
In the near-century since its publication, society has changed, writing styles have changed, and I'm clearly not the same as the people who read and enjoyed these stories when they first appeared.
Mr. Ephraim Tutt is a kindly old lawyer who uses his position to do good.
The stories were so popular that Ephraim Tutt became known as the "best known lawyer in America." In this volume Mr. Tutt is up to his ancient neck in all sorts of devious legal battles in an effort to bring justice to the innocent and deserving.
Three and a half stars.The stories included here are:"The Bloodhound": In which Mr. Tutt lays a trap for his rival, the dishonest prosecutor "Bloodhound" O'Brien who thinks he has successfully framed an innocent man."Tut, Tut!
To put it another way, a man's capacity to love may be likened to a thermometer.
At twenty-five or thirty, he meets some young person, falls in love with her, thinks his amatory thermometer has reached the boiling point and accordingly marries her.
Well, he goes merrily on life's way and some fine day another lady breezes by, and this safe and sane citizen, who supposes his capacity for affection was reached in early youth, suddenly discovers to his amazement that his mercury is on the jump and presently that his old thermometer has blown its top off."
Before there was Erle Stanley Gardner (let alone John Grisham), there was Arthur Cheney Train. I first encountered Mr. Tutt in the parental bookcase, having no idea what or who he was, but hoping the book would be too old for me (the best way to find a book). He wasn't, and I no longer have any idea whether the Tutt books were any good or not. But I continue to be charmed by the notion that lawyer-heroes used to look like Mr. Tutt, rather than Gregory Peck and Robert Downey, Jr.
The devil is in the detailsWritten by, I assume, a fine upstanding member of the bar, the level of respect afforded to the profession is vividly explained.I believe there is a difference between legal and illegal which may not align exactly with the difference between right and wrong. I must thank Mr. Train for for his validation of my belief, and for an enjoyable read.
This book's premiss is very different from current lawyering books. The lawyer is a bit sleazy but for a good outcome. It isn't a murder mystery. The suspense is in seeing if the lawyer accomplishes what he sets out to do. I enjoy reading books from the twenties because my house is from the twenties. The characters act very proper - no sex scenes.
Nothing earth-shattering or scandalous. Just quiet little stories. Warning: If you prefer your literature NOT to be representative of the time in which it was written as regards bigotry and racism, do NOT read this.
Charming early lawyer mystery stories
