https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102866.The_Way_Of_The_Scarlet_Pimpernel

"There had never been but one in this world who had compassion for the whole of humanity, and humanity repaid Him by nailing Him to a cross"
Of course, like all of Percy's adventures, this was highly engaging and pleasing to read, but with a twist of an avid fangirl of the Scarlet Pimpernel being the main heroine! I enjoyed how she grew from being obsessed with our historical superhero to seeing and loving the heroism of those around her, particularly her adoring friend Maurice. It would be nice to not always see some unusually tall, large, ugly yet highly amusing man and realize "Oh, that's Percy in disguise" but then, if that were the case, it wouldn't be a Scarlet Pimpernel adventure!
A great book about the Scarlet pimpernel
A fun continuation of the Scarlet Pimpernel story, but it also has major drawbacks. First of all, none of the original characters (Except the Pimpernel, who is not really seen much, and doesn't portray Percy Blakeney at all) appear in this story. The story is entertaining, and I liked the female protagonist more than I liked Marguerite Blakeney, but there are an awful! lot! of! exclamation! points! in the book, and a lot of drama- and not the good kind.
Not as much fun as the first one, but still really enjoyable. Again, I'm surprised by how these read as if they were written this year. It started off slow, but picked up around the middle. I was struck this time by how horrible life must have been for most people living in France during the Revolution, how uncertain and full of fear their lives must have been. Can't wait to read the next one.
An adorable, traditional Scarlet Pimpernel! Everything looks bleak until that wonderful hero shows up to save the day!
This wasn't my favourite Pimpernel book, but it was still enjoyable. Some things about the story just didn't work as well for me as the others.
Once again, Sir Percy and his band confound their foes with fiendishly clever schemes, good humour and exquisite manners.
This book had a slow start, but ended up being an enjoyable tale of the Scarlet Pimpernel told from the perspective of the person being saved. I still like the original Scarlet Pimpernel better.
It 19s a clean adventure story. The historical setting gives the reader a background knowledge allowing the writer to focus more on the story. It 19s a good sequel. I can 19t wait to read others.
