https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13139.School_s_Out_Forever
What I liked:-Max. She got some pretty good character development in this book, and I enjoyed her exploring her more “feminine” side, and I especially liked her date with Sam. I also liked her little jealous streak when Fang got kissed by Lissa, and I liked Fang’s equal amount of jealousy towards Sam.-Iggy.
There is so much useless filler in this series it isn’t even funny; it’s just a waste of paper.-Writing style.
James Patterson has the simplest writing style I’ve ever come across in all of the books I’ve read, and it really annoys me.
The fact that book one hit number one on the NYT best seller list means to me that the author did something right, because a whole lot of people are enjoying it enough to buy it and probably tell their friends to buy it, too.
Here is what I think Patterson did right here: First, he created awesome characters that are really fun to be around, and he's good at making you love them.
Awesome characters with a cool voice and an interesting story concept and story world can apparently cover for a lot of problems.
Book title: Maximum Ride- School out ForeverAuthor: James PattersonPage: 416Wow, i start running with Max and the children again.
I feel so excited when running in the same ride as Max and the Flocks.
I'm feeling that Max gradually loves Fang, expressing through the way she takes care of him, the way she asks him.
We are going to find out more next week.*******************Nov 15,2008 This week the ride with Max and the Flocks stops at School.
Patterson partly makes me satisfied because at least the Flocks are treated like the normal kids in this situation.
and i would like to know WHAT the heck is up with jeb...why, for instance, is he saying "i love you" while trying to kill max at the same time?
and the whole imposter max thing was confusing...and the whole end part, too...and why are the whitecoats ON THEIR SIDE but trying to kill them?!?!
and what do max and the flock need to save the world from.
he brings up all these plot twists, but never solves them/finishes them, which gets REALLY annoying.basically, what i'm trying to say is...this book was great.
In this book, even though it is fiction, I felt I could relate to Max. Multiple times in the story, Max says "I'm so overwhelmed," "This is so overwhelming." I can relate to her because I also feel like I have a lot on my shoulders.
In the story, max is confused with who she likes between Fang and another boy she met at school.
In my life, I also get confused with boys but in a different way.
I would highly recommend this book to anyone who likes a little "family" drama, action, and fantasy.
I would also recommend the entire series.
I really enjoyed this book so much more than I did the first novel in this series!
One of my biggest complaints for the first novel had been how juvenile it seemed even for the characters' ages and the cheesy dialogue, but I didn't have that problem this time.
The dialogue was so much better and kept me invested the entire time.
I also liked how the vocabulary seemed to be so much more fitting for the characters.
It was pretty action packed and not nearly as predictable as the first book had been.
I'm curious to see how the next book is.
I love the characters, my favorite character was the Gasman because he's really funny and he makes me laugh.
Okay so character-wise it was the best but plot-wise it was okay.
Come on!Well what I really love about the book was the part wherein they go to a normal school.
We've finally seen the flock blend with the normal kids, like Max having a date with Sam, Fang kisses a girl which makes Max mad because gosh she likes Fang *roll eyes* blah blah blah.It was still a good read.
This was a bit better. But a lot of things were thrown at you randomly. Many things made it seem... recycled. I think that anything else I say will be a spoiler, so I will stop here. But better than the first book.
This series is a great guilty pleasure and I love the characters. Both books so far have been quick reads and I am excited about continuing with the next one. This get s big thumbs up.
hmmmmm, I'm really starting to like Fang :P
5/5*Full review/opinião completa (portuguse & english): http://presa-nas-palavras.blogspot.co...ENG: It’s incredibly hard to find someone that doesn’t enjoy the books of this series, simply because the story flows naturally, the characters are well built and the plot is fantastic.
As you can expect, I highly recommend all of the works of this author, not just this series.Good Reading.---PT: Dificilmente alguém não gosta dos livros desta série pelo simples facto de que a história corre bem, as personagens são bem construídas e a ficção é fantástica.
Como era de esperar, recomendo muito não só esta série mas também todos os livros do autor.
Of course the story is still just as fast pace as book one, but there are some moments where it does slow down, because we get to see the flock put into different situations they never expected to happen.
We already knew that at times things could be strained like a normal family, but there was definitely questioning happening that you want answers to (if that even makes any sense).
That is the only thing I’m irritated about it, it’s like come on, give me a little bit more, instead I just kept getting more and more bait and I continued to go after it.
Ari still wants Max in a twisted way so he hangs out with Max II who is also an Eraser.
Max is now noticing Angel's changes.
Angel now likes to use her mind controlling ways to "assist" the President of the USA, teachers, police officers, Erasers (only for fighting) and now announces, she wouldn't mind leading the group.
It's because of Fang and Ari's fight, they rush Fang to the human's hospital where they are later met by FBI agents and particularly, Anne.Turns out Anne was Jeb's boss all along after she takes them in, put's them in school and tries to give them home cooked meals and a normal life.
This is the second installment of the Maximum Ride series, picking up right after The Angel Experiment.
Maximum Ride: Schools out Forever starts right where The Angel Experiment left off, continuing with the six genetically engineered children being chased by their main enemies, the Erasers, a wolf/human hybrid.
Max continues to be plagued by the death of their main Eraser pursuer named Ari, who might or might not be her biological brother.
Max and her fellow winged children end up releasing a bunch of other genetically altered animals onto the city, which doesn't go very far, except they adopt a dog that Angel has become attached to.
Huh. The writing style's the same, the characters are the same, and I feel the plot hasn't moved on much, despite this being a 400+ book.Sure they got a few ideas and info and whatever else they need to "save the world," but...I don't know.
I just feel that reading such a long book should have given me more things to be excited about.
(view spoiler)[In fact, during that time when she was fighting with the fake Max, I wanted her to get a really good beating and be almost helpless and suffering and simply quite dying, you know?
2. For adult readers of YA fiction it is perfect bathroom reading, again the 2 page chapters are the perfect length, plus even after not looking at the book for long periods of time it's not that difficult to figure out what is going on, since it's basically good guy mutant birds trying to run away from bad guy mutant dogs.
I do feel that the short chapters are somewhat derogatory in tone as if the author is convinced that all young adults don't read so he must talk down to them.
I listened to the audiobook again for the second novel in this series.
There is something about the story that keeps you going despite how bad it is.
The writing is terribly juvenile and predictable.
There is zero subtlety about the emotions each of the characters are going through.
And yet I kept going.I think the main thing (if not only thing) that kept me going was the idea behind the novel.
The descriptions had me wide-eyed and jealous of this wings.I "guess" I will continue with the series, but really the only thing keeping me here are their wings.
Book 2 is also pretty good, though I confess I could do with a bit less telling in this one. The environmental commentary is starting to detract from the story more than help it. However, I did enjoy the small bit of normalcy that the characters were able to have, and this is also a fast-paced read. Pages: 409
If your looking for a book that has something new happening by the end of each chapter, this is it? Seriously there is no limit to the amount of action this book has.
This is the perfect sequel to the first book. It is very well written and I would recommend to everyone.
Two words: Childhood Restored.
This was a really cute book that I enjoyed. I give this 4 instead of 5 because the writing style is a little too all over the place and childish for me. But the overall plot and storyline was very good and kept me hooked and entertained.(view spoiler)[ I totally knew Anne was involved but I didn't expect her to be the boss holy crap (hide spoiler)]
Apesar de por vezes ter um pouco a sensação que a vida de Max é facilitada através de certos poderes e situações que vão surgindo, a realidade é que este é um livro para adolescente e Max é uma adolescente também e como tal, há situações em que ajuda é necessária e tem de ser dada para as personagens poderem evoluir e para a história seguir o seu rumo.Assim sendo, os únicos defeitos a apontar ao livro vão para a tradução que não está a melhor com frases traduzidas à letra em vez de adaptadas para português e para a revisão que deixou escapar um ou outro erro ortográfico.
After several more scrapes and escapes the kids end up in Florida, where Max is kidnapped and replaced with another, identical Max. This new Max is supposed to take over, but the original Max busts out of her sensory deprivation tank and rescues the flock (again) and they all hide out in the Everglades, presumably until the next book.Another disappointing installment in the Maximum Ride series, this series favors action over character and plot development and the result seems quickly thrown together and poorly thought out/researched.
The Erasers hunted Max and the Flock,and he make Fang dying one more time.
A woman called Anne from FBI wants to take care of them,Max had to take it cause Fang's not very well yet.
And once day Max saw the girl kissed Fang.
Max and Fang are oftten to flying in midnight to knew where's their parents live with codes that they had from Institute.
Once day, Max and Fang heard there's a parents that lost their kid 14 years ago.
Once day,there's a lot of Erasers in school,and they just know Anne is part of them.
Maximum Ride = Marvelous ReadingAs leader of her Flock, Max is tough and resilient.
This group of bird kids makes an amazing team.I read Fang when it first released not realizing it was part of a series.
When I heard about Angel, I decided to read the whole series so I could experience it from the beginning.
I read the whole series.Angel is less action-packed and more touchy-feely than the earlier books.
Being girlie and all, I liked seeing this side of Max. Angel leads up to the final challenge that will be included in the eighth book next year.
There is some relationship themes and a mushy kiss but all was not explicit or out of the ordinary.As for the story, genetically modified bird-children escape the lab and the evil genius that made them to find their families and their place in the world.
The world they may need to save from the other genetically modified wolf-children that are hunting them down.
Now, while at a safe house the kids have to go to school, real school.
The question that remains is, is this house really safe and who can the kids really trust.
After a few days, Anne enrolls the Flock in a school run by William Pruitt.
Fang and Max date people from the school named Lissa and Sam, and Iggy is friends with Tess, another girl.
They head to Florida, on the way discovering the School is run by a large corporation named Itex.
The new Max leads the Flock into a trap at Itex's main branch, while the original Max eventually gets out of the tank.
The original Max finds her way to Itex and engages in a battle to the death with Max II.
The Flock then escapes by way of one of Iggy and Gazzy's explosives.
They're not complex but they do have a gradually increasing depth to them - I could certainly see the whole plot develop in this book and a lot of potential for more interesting situations.
I do think that Ari could've been explored some more in this book (Though I see this happening further on into the series) as well as the situation with Iggy's parents and the double who was introduced - they did feel as though they were a little skimmed over and could've been made much more effective.
What’s the power in a name? The second book of the Maximum Ride saga, School’s Out—Forever, catches attention just with its title. I don’t think I would have picked it up in the first place if I hadn’t felt an unwelcome pang of jealousy, just at the concept of the title reigning true. Nevertheless, I’ve always enjoyed James Patterson’s work, which is why I decided to give his science-fiction epic, Maximum Ride, a go. It chronicles the journey of a group of human-avian hybrids—the titular Max Ri
We received personal insight from these characters, and although I wish Patterson had expanded upon the root worries of some of them (like Iggy’s blindness, which was only developed in the second book after having been introduced in the first) I felt I could become a more empathetic person with insight into very human struggles, even though some could be framed as fantastical.My only hope coming out of this book is that I manage to get my hands on the rest.
