https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/441499.The_Compact_Edition_of_the_Oxford_English_Dictionary_2_Vols_w_Reading_Glass
I love this dictionary.
Sometimes I flip it open and read it just for fun, peering down at the page with my funky replacement magnifying glass (having lost the sleek one which came standard, tucked into its very own drawer), reading about the histories of my favorite words or finding new ones that I'll probably never have any occasion to use.
This dictionary also makes an excellent end table, if you're not the sort of person who is bothered by coffee rings to your books.
It's a set made to be used - sturdy binding, clear type, table-sized slipcase, handy drawer for stuff - and that just makes me love it more.
Better to have a spare, just in case.Yes. I love this dictionary.
i have this. i use the magnifying glass to look at topo maps whilst drinkin' beer. ya know plannin' hikin' trips an' such.i generally use my full-on 20 volume OED.
This is the ultimate dictionary.
It is especially recommended for keeping in the kitchen, for those times when you have to wait for the water to boil, and turn to a page, then look, using the reading glass from the little drawer above the two volumes, and see....Dumbledore.
A humble-bee or a bumble bee or a dial.
cockchafer.
Which leads to:Cockchafer.
A colcopterous insect or beetle, well known in England and Europe.Of course, these are only bits of the definitions, but every time I touch either volume of this book, something wonderful happens.
*THE* resource. Don't lose the magnifying glass (I did, had to buy a new one). More portable than the multiple volume set. Quicker access and more informative than the online version (not many books can say that today) and cheaper than the annual subscription. Keep your eyes open, you can often pick this up at a used bookstore - great investment. Will not have the latest stuff, but you already know that! What you need is the historical context; this book is historic context personified.
I obtained this, which, with supplements, is the most complete dictionary of the English language, as an introductory offer from The Book of the Month Club soon after matriculating at Union Theological Seminary in New York. It was quite inexpensive, maybe $19.99. Since then I've also obtained the supplement.Given the tiny print, four pages of the original set on each page of this edition, this OED is difficult to use. Thus the magnifying glass which accompanies it. Still, it covers terms not included in the largest Webster's and can prove infuriatingly useful in Scrabble.
I used this when I was at college and finally learnt what a real dictionary was all about. I could get lost in the pages of a dictionary, skipping from one definition to another to see how long a chain I can make of words I didn't know.
Unique history of the English language and how it's changed and grown. Unfortunately, this is the edition I own. So much about the English language has changed in the last 3 1/2 decades! Wish I had the funds to subscribe annually online to the OED! But it's still fun to look at the old editions, such as this one, to see the history of the English language up until that time.
This is the book(s) that I sleep with they stay in my bed I open random pages and read, then go where it takes me An endless experiment in the language, something new each time. I suggest you get one. Love to have the 20 volumes set but I'm not that obsessed yet
This was given to me as a gift several years ago and I refer to it often when I need a thorough definition or etymology. I know this increases my geek factor, but I love words. For a quick look-up, though, I prefer the Oxford American Dictionary.
The most fabulous dictionary of the English language (other than the complete edition of the Oxford). You should be able to access the complete version, updated frequently, through your local library. This is the most indispensible tool I have ever used other than a pen!
it will improve my english
What more can be said? The OED is simply the coolest book ever written by humans. Seriously.
Along with the Norton Anthology of English Literature, one of the two sacrosanct texts for all English scholars.
That's a great posibility to learn the origin of the English words!
Ok, so I didn't read the WHOLE thing, but the parts I have were very interesting.
This should be a mainstay in personal libraries. It is in mine along with Webster's 11th edition.
its good and very helpful...
Perhaps the greatest scholarly endeavour in any language.
i wish it didnt hurt so much to read, but, until i happen to find the 20 volume set in some magical dumpster somewhere...
wish list
i feel like a detective using the magnifying glass! woo! i say, searching words and discovering their origins. woo!
IT WAS FANTASTIC. I loved all the unique words used in its plot, for it was suspenseful all the way. Best book I've ever read and I recommend it to anyone that has the time.
I didn't actually read all of this, just excerpts.
Muahaha! That is all.
