https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/698034.Time_Out_of_Joint
While the rest of the world toils at their jobs, Ragle Gumm stays at home, his sole source of income a daily newspaper contest called "Where will the little green man appear next?" When odd things start happening, Ragle thinks he may be having a nervous breakdown.
After mindbending reads like The Great Forgetting, Dark Matter, and The Mirage, the road I was on was leading to Dick anyway so I gave this a shot.First off, the things I didn't care for: The prose was really bland and the pace was a little slow for a 250 page book with huge type.
This was published in 1959, one of his earlier novels and an observant reader of PKD will notice a more subtle approach than some of his later, Kafkaesque absurd and over the top science fiction vehicles.
Also present are familiar classical, biblical and psychological references.
Published and marketed along with his SF canon, but written during the period of his mainstream efforts and less "far out there" than many of his works.My only criticism is that it takes a while to get where it is going, but this is good, vintage PKD.
“Finished with my woman 'cause she couldn't help me with my mindpeople think I'm insane because I am frowning all the timeAll day long I think of things but nothing seems to satisfyThink I'll lose my mind if I don't find something to pacifyCan you help me occupy my brain?” Cheers, Ozzy! That is Black Sabbath’s  Paranoid, of course. Fits the bill for me!I have a copy of Time Out of Joint languishing in my house for over ten years. I have no idea where it came from, I am pretty sure I never bough
If this wasn’t a PKD I would have dumped it by then but Dick is always worth persevering with.For synopses fans, Time Out of Joint is ostensibly set in 1959 (the year of this book’s first publication), it is the story of Ragle Gumm, a man who makes a living from the cash prizes from a “Where Will The Little Green Man Be Next?” competition in a local gazette that he always win.
OK… Soon Gumm starts to feel like he is, for some reason, the center of the universe, but not in a good way.Many reviews of Time Out of Joint mention that the book’s plot is similar to The Truman Show, a 1998 film (Jim Carrey’s best, IMO) which this book predates of course.
Some of the most intriguing ideas from the early part of the book just drop out of sight at the end.What I most enjoyed in the book was the philosophical speculation about the nature of reality and the meaning of words.
When Ragle initiates a conversation with his brother-in-law about philosophy, he cites George Berkeley ~ the Idealist philosopher who proposed that nothing actually exists except as ideas in the mind of God.
Perhaps it’s because he sees himself as infantile and insane even as he imagines himself to be the center of the universe.
No puedo empezar sin hacer mención a la criminal sinopsis de la contraportada de esta novela, que creo que ha seguido sucediendo incluso en ediciones de otras editoriales (véase Minotauro).
Una cosa es picar la curiosidad del lector contando algo que suceda en los primeros capítulos, porque algo hay que contar, eso es indiscutible.
Y el hecho es más grave si cabe cuando estamos hablando del germen de la novela, del motor principal que la mueve.
Ya he dejado la costumbre de leer sinopsis, prólogos y según qué reseñas antes de empezar una novela, pero aun así sigo cayendo de vez en cuando.‘Tiempo desarticulado’ (Time Out of Joint, 1959), del norteamericano Philip K.
Ντικ παραμένει μια πρωτότυπη "φωνή", όντας απόλυτα μοντέρνος και προφητικός.
Από τη 2η δεκαετία της ζωής μου, ως και σήμερα, συνεχίζω να τον διαβάζω με την ίδια πάντα απόλαυση.
Έχοντας μάλιστα αποκτήσει σταδιακά όλη τη βιβλιογραφία του στα ελληνικά, ο "Ασύνδετος χρόνος" είναι από τα λίγα βιβλία του που δεν είχα εισέτι διαβάσει.
Εντούτοις, δεν θα το συμπεριλάβω στις κορυφαίες του στιγμές, αν και η επίδρασή του στο υπέροχο "Truman Show" είναι παραπάνω από εμφανής.
Ο λόγος είναι ότι μου φάνηκε πως κάτι "ασύνδετο" υπάρχει στον τρόπο γραφής, με συνέπεια να επικρατεί αφενός μια αφηγηματική χαλαρότητα και αφετέρου μια αίσθηση αμηχανίας.
Why didn't I start reading Philip K. Dick ages ago?!?!WHERE HAVE I BEEN ALL MY LIFE
Please to meet you Mr Dick1959- In una qualunque cittadina di una qualunque provincia americana, Ragle Gumm vive con la sorella Margot, il cognato Victor ed il nipotino Sammy.All’apparenza una vita tranquilla: il lavoro, le visite del vicinato, le faccende domestiche...
A 46 anni Ragle non ha quello che comunemente può essere definito un vero lavoro.La sua attività, infatti, consiste nel risolvere i quiz pubblicati da un quotidiano.
Iniziato come semplice gioco è ormai diventata un'occupazione a tempo pieno che frutta denaro ed anche fama essendo oramai un affermato vincitore seriale.Qualcosa, tuttavia, non va; non è solo l'insoddisfazione professionale.
¡Qué manera de jugar con mi mente, señor Dick!La primera parte es un poco lenta pero a la vez rarísima (típico de PKD, al parecer) desde el principio. Se pone mucho mejor en los últimos capítulos. Una novela de los inicios de Dick allá por el '59.Ragle Gumm se gana la vida participando en un concurso del periódico llamado "¿Dónde estará la próxima vez el hombrecito verde?" , siempre gana. Una vida normal, corriente. Luego de experimentar algunos eventos crecen sus sospechas sobre la veracidad de la realidad que lo rodea.¡Maestro!
Locuind cu familia surorii lui, viața lui Ragle urmează același tipar cotidian, timpul lui împărțindu-se între întâlnirile cu familia Black și concursul care i-a adus notorietatea.
Încet, încet, senzația unor lucruri care nu au existat vreodată începe să-i macine conștiința, destrămându-i realitatea și făcându-l să-și pună la îndoială propriile percepții, gânduri și amintiri.
Așadar, este lumea lui reală sau doar o amăgire?
Cu toate că nu a fost chiar ceea ce mă așteptam, stilul lui Philip K.
Dick a fost chiar plăcut, nici pe departe atât de confuz ca în Ubik sau în Invazia divină, dar păstrându-și în același timp doza de irealitate.
E' vero, PKD scrive male, da novelliere da stazione ferroviaria, direbbe qualcuno, ma anche i romanzi di Kipling erano venduti come romanzi da 1 Rupia nelle remote stazioni ferroviarie del Raj.Altri la avrebbero scritta stilisticamente meglio, ma solo PKD poteva creare una situazione cosi pervasiva e disturbante , da riflettersi anche sul povero lettore, che, invano, cerca una cordicella nel Bagno.....
Essendo qui il tempo fuor di sesto, si intende dire che qualcosa, il tempo stesso, non gira più con la dovuta regolarità o precisione.Splendida la prima parte del romanzo, quella in cui i personaggi sentono che qualcosa stride, che non vi è esatta corrispondenza tra ciò che vivono e ciò che la loro ‘memoria abitudinaria’ trasmette.Sollevò la mano cercando a tentoni la cordicella della luce.
Margo lo chiamò a voce alta: “Fa’ in fretta, caro”… “D’accordo” borbottò, cercando ancora la cordicella… Ancora non aveva trovato la cordicella della luce che penzolava nel buio del bagno.
What a strange book. I wonder if this is where the creators of 'The Truman Show' got their inspiration. A really kooky story about an ordinary guy who thinks he's living in the 1950s and just doing ordinary stuff in an ordinary little town. But is he? Well, it's Philip K. Dick. Of course he isn't. It's all some really weird crap and nothing really makes any god damn sense -- at least not until the ending, but even that is just crazy stuff.
An early PKD novel, TIME OUT OF JOINT is not as trippy, surreal, or fractured as his later works. Yet some of the author's trademarks are in evidence here such as smoking cigars, snappy shoes, uncivilised civil war, disconnected discussions, and copious amounts of paranoia. The story contains strong echoes of the movie The Truman Show. I wonder if R.A. Henlein borrowed a story subplot here for his eponymous The Moon Is A Harsh Mistriss. This book isn't recommended for readers not familiar with Philip K. Dick.
Assolutamente fenomenale, Dick riesce a raccontare una storia con varie sfaccettature, realtà e fantascienza si mischiano in modo incredibile e alla fine ne esci disorientato non riuscendo più a capire dove lo scrittore voglia andare a parare.L'inizio parte tranquillamente, come in un racconto di vita quotidiana, tra emozioni e stati d'animo, poi subentra la tensione, la suspense che tiene il lettore col cuore a 1000, come nei migliori thriller ed infine... meglio leggerlo!!!Un capolavoro.
This is one of PKD's earlier and lesser works. The protagonist discovers his mundane existence is a actually an elaborate hoax that covers up a much darker reality. Frankly, the author has explored this idea with much better results in later books, so that the book almost reads like a cheap knock-off of PKD himself, which was probably unavoidable since he wrote so many books just to pay the bills. I'd stick to his more famous works.
Una storia di fantascienza scritta alla fine degli anni '50 e che si legge con piacere ancora oggi, a distanza di 60 anni, deve avere delle doti. Il libro parte in sordina narrando le vicende di una famiglia americana un po' scombinata. La prima parte è abbastanza piatta, poi, a piccole dosi, si costruisce un incubo che si fa via via più angosciante. La realtà si fa irreale, e ingannevole diventa la percezione del mondo e di se stessi. Finale splendido.
In typical Dick fashion, for the first 60 or 70 pages you have no idea what direction the story is going in.
You get a few hints, but they don't ammount to much, maybe like repetition of some terms or incongruencies in dialogue.
Apart from one moment in the book where I really felt like the dialogue/situation was forced in order to give the story the momentum it needed, this was a highly enjoyable read for a SF fan like myself.
Reading it tabula rasa made it much more enjoyable than if I would've known what it is about.
It's difficult to summarise without giving too much away, so I'll try to keep things basic - because even the description on the book itself, to me, ruined some of the surprise (though did manage to keep some things hidden).Ragle Gumm lives with his sister, brother-in-law, and their son Sammy.
The year is, for all intents and purposes, 1959, and they lead a simple life: Margo, a home mum who dabbles in a little civic activism; Victor, her husband and local grocer; Ragle, an apparent lay-about who, in actuality, spends his days earning income by completing newspaper puzzles; Sammy, school-aged and ever intrigued by technology.
Non posso che iniziare a dubitare di me stesso e anche sulla stessa concezione di esistenza.Qui l'idea di fondo è visionaria e molto intrigante, ha ispirato con successo scrittori e registi venuti dopo, ma a mio parere non è sviluppata particolarmente bene.Dick aveva tante idee interessanti, tra cui quella dell'alterazione del tempo, ma la realizzazione probabilmente non era il suo forte.
Purtroppo la fine è confusa, poco credibile e non in linea col resto del romanzo.Rimane l'idea, di un romanzo ambientato solo in apparenza negli anni 50, il cui protagonista, contornato solo in apparenza di amici e parenti, svolge un'attività che solo in apparenza è quello che è.
And then when he penetrates through to another layer of reality, is what he was doing critically important to save lives or is he merely furthering the cause of tyranny?I'm treading dangerously close to spoiling the plot but I feel that I've held back from crossing that line by being suitably vague and also because I think a reader of average intelligence will see most of the plot turns coming well ahead of time.Doesn't quite mess with your head as much as some of his later novels so is perhaps a good place to start as a PKD newbie.
Y cuanto más te acercas al final, la cosa empeora porque se convierte en Wayward Pines muy descaradamente.Aunque lo correcto es decir que Truman y Wayward son los que "se inspiraron" en este libro.Lo que me sorprendió de Dick es cómo se cuelga filosofando.
No es que sea algo malo per se, pero no es lo que esperaba de una novela de ciencia ficción.Así y todo, voy a darle otra chance.
Sólo tengo que encontrar alguna otra novela que me llame la atención, porque sigo renegado con el del sueño de las ovejas.
Omino Verde cercasi"Cos'è questo posto che non ricordo?"L'opera di Dick - Weir con il suo "Truman Sh
A book that could have inspired both Pynchon's Gravity's Rainbow (anticipation of anticipation of rockets) and the Truman Show (community set up around one man). While I give it points for anticipating a couple generations early the narcissism of the 21st century, the absurdity of American Exceptionalism, the shallow falseness of community on FB, etc., it was in the end just too damn slow. Most of the narrative was underwater. There was no rush. There were no prose daisies to pick as I picked through the pages. It was good just not great. It was PKD, just not great PKD.
Dick THE TRUMAN SHOW meets THE MATRIX Synopsis It’s 1959.
And all they want in the whole world is for Ragle to keep plugging away at the “Where Will the Little Green Man be Next?” puzzles.
Time Out of Joint is like The Truman Show because it’s a town revolving around one guy, an illusion to keep him where he is.
However, here, strange things really are happening to the protagonist, but he insists through most of the book that it’s his psychosis and that he really is just losing his mind.
<3
La parola non rappresenta la realtà.
Un tempo quasi appeso in cui a Ragle sembra di non essere riuscito a raggiungere gli obiettivi base, una moglie, una famiglia propria dei figli.
Ricordi e deja vu che rappresentano una costante nella vita di tutti i giorni.
Di migrare."L'unica fuga possibile per trovare la quiete, non è però una fuga di luogo ma di tempo.
Tempo in cui in cui non ci sia spazio per inquietudine e responsabilità, tempo futuro in cui vivere un passato reso chimerico dal ricordo.Utopico pensare che esita un tempo [e un luogo] in cui poter fuggire da se stessi.L'idea del romanzo è geniale.
The tale of Ragle Gumm, a seeming deadbeat who lives with his sister and brother-in-law, and does nothing much besides lie around solving a puzzle called "Where Will the Little Green Man be Next?" in the daily paper, T.O.O.J. plies its Dickian sleight of hand.
I don't want to spoil anything, but when slips of paper begin replacing everyday items, look out.I dust it off and reread it every few years, so clearly it works for me.
There's a soft spot in my brain for this early novel by P K Dick, probably his first full treatment of ersatz reality paranoia and the mental instability capable of seeing it for what it is.
It reminds me of the movie The Truman Show (which I enjoyed) but is 6 to 8 times more involving and interesting.One great thing about the book is the lovingly detailed 1950's middle class neighborhood setting (less all the counterculture drugginess of his later books).
I don't mind drugs or drugginess, but the lack of them here actually heightens the paranoia and metaphysical terror as "reality" peals away.
This is a early novel by Dick,written in 1959 ,where already appears a deceptive reality based in condicionament of minds,the reality as the model our brain makes of the world, and the power of goverments to control this;also the thin gap between sanity and madness in the paranoic case.As many people knows there is certain link between this novel and the Trumans Show movie,also in my opinión with the tale that appears in the book Alternating Currents by Pohl tittled A túnel under the world yet with different plots
