https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/960.Angels_Demons
I know a lot of people think Dan Brown is a crappy writer who writes crappy books about crappy stories with crappy characters and crappy, unbelievable plots.
I know a lot of people think Dan Brown is one of the best at the "cheese factor" and roll their eyes at his stories.
I was totally engrossed in the story Dan Brown told, even though I had already seen the movie.
After reading The DaVinci Code a few years ago, I was a little hesitant to pick this one up...would I love Dan Brown as much (or more)?
لو قلبت الصورة حتلاقي عنوان الرواية بيقرا من فوق زي من تحتثانيا، أعتبر الرواية تذكرة طائرة لرحلة مع بروفيسير روبرت لانجدون، أهلا بيك في الفاتيكانيمكن دي اول تجربة ليا لقراءة رواية مليانة تفاصيل ومعلومات حقيقية سواء علمية او دينية او تاريخية او حتي اثرية وسياحية ..و كمان تحتل المعلومات دي اكثر من ربع الرواية او ثلثها بدون مبالفةرحلة يتخللها معلومات عن الذرات والطاقة والمادة...معلومات فيزيائية وطبيعيةمعلومات تاريخية عن طائفة الحشاشين، وعن التنويريين "اليمانتري" ورموز فنونهم وأصلهم و أصل الماسونيةوعن صراع الدين والعلم في عصر النهضة..وعلي مدي العصور بعدها وحتي الأنمعلومات عجيبة حقيقية عن الفاتيكان ، الدولة ومكتبته وتماثيله وغيرها كتيرمش كده بقي وبس ده كمان كل المعلومات دي في اطار تشويقي فعلا يخليك مستني تعرف المعلومة اللي بعدها وتحاول تبحث عن حقيقتها او اصلها علي الانترنتعشان كده بنصح بالنسخة المصورة..لان صور الاماكن والاثار والاعمال الفنية دي بتساعد وبشكل كبير جدا في حل لغز الرواية نفسها...وعاما وصف دان براون دقيق ومسلي مش مملبلاش المعلومات ..
(B-) 70% | SatisfactoryNotes: The apotheosis of laugh out loud, so-bad-it’s-good writing, it’s at first enthralling but descends into garish absurdity.
Has he even read any history about the Catholic Church at all?
His descriptions of the Church seem to be based on whatever anti-Catholic propoganda he could find, Chick Tracts, and superstition.
Bashing Catholics and depicting them and their history in the way Dan Brown does in these books is outrageous and should be criticized and shunned.
The only thing more embarassing than his writing that will never be remembered 20 years from now, is the fact that so many people bought into his piece of shit and wasted their time with it.
something in the past is incredibly relevant, vital, to the present.
Everyone but me had read this, & after Da Vinci Code--that bitch of an overrated heathen--I thought Brown was a phony (in company of Nicholas Sparks, among others).
This one is so incredibly put together, it is no wonder Brown has been heralded by the general readership, ingrained in the zeitgeist.The awesomeness of this work lies in the battle between science and religion, perhaps one of the most seminal works about that topic.
That they are married, both science and religion, is the thesis.
Brown proves this with the precision of a skilled scientist.

This is the first novel in which the character appears (The DaVinci Code being the most famous) The well-known symbologist is called in by the director of CERN when a renowned scientist is found murdered.
The tale has much payload regarding the Illuminati, an ancient group of scientists who had formed a secret society in opposition to the church.
It is fast-paced, and a well made example of the action adventure tale.
We learn much about the history of the illuminati, a bit about CERN, but the central questions remain ones of faith and science.
Angels & Demons (Robert Langdon #1), Dan BrownAngels & Demons is a 2000 bestselling mystery-thriller novel written by American author Dan Brown and published by Pocket Books and then by Corgi Books.
The novel introduces the character Robert Langdon, who recurs as the protagonist of Brown's subsequent novels.
خلاصه ای از ماجرا: استاد نمادشناسی دانشگاه هاروارد، با همراهی دانشمندی زیبا و مرموز به نام: «ویتوریا وترا»، در مورد ارتباط قتل یک فیزیکدان در «سرن» با یک گروه باستانی به نام اشراقیون و رابطه ی آنها با واتیکان پژوهش می‌کند؛ که منجر به دفع یک توطئه توسط اشراقیون می‌شود.
آنها در نظر دارند تا واتیکان را به هنگام جلسه ی انتخاب پاپ منفجر کنند.
"إن العلم والدين ليسا في نزاع أو خصام مع بعضهما البعض، ولكن كل ما في الأمر هو أن العلم لا يزال حديثاً جداً لكي يفهم." عندما بدأت بقراءة هذه الرواية قبل 3 سنوات، انبهرت بها جداً. فقد كنت مهووسة وقتها -ولا زلت- بروايات أغاثا كريستي وأسلوبها المُبهر، وعلمت بأن هناك روائياً يسمّى دان براون، صاحب أسلوب مُدهش ومثير وقد انتشرت رواياته في كل العالم انتشار النار في الهشيم. وبالفعل، قمت بقراءة جميع أعماله، وهذه الرواية إحدى أفضل ما كتب. قد يسألني البعض، كيف أعيد قراءة رواية كهذه وقد علمت مسبقاً تفصيلاتها
وأجيب أنا: برأيي، يملك دان براون خاصيّة مدهشة بجعلك تشعر بالإثارة والتشويق في كل مرة تعيد بها رواياته، وكنت أودّ السفر إلى الفاتيكان وهذه الرواية كانت أرخص تذكرة سفر توفّرت لدي.قبل أن تبدأ بقراءة هذه الرواية تأكد من وجود هاتفك النقال أو حاسوبك الشخصي المشبوك بالإنترنت لتتمكّن من رؤية كل كنيسة وتمثال وضريح ولوحة وشارع تدور بها أحداث الرواية.ملائكة وشياطين، الرواية الأولى التي يظهر بها روبرت لانغدون، البروفيسور في جامعة هارفرد والمتخصص في دراسة الرموز الدينية.
وهذه ميّزة أخرى يتمتّع بها براون في قدرته على رسم الشخصيات بدقة وما يختلج بداخلها من تساؤلات، فيشعر القارئ بأنها حقيقية تماماً.رواية تدور فكرتها الرئيسية حول الصراع الأزلي بين الدين والعلم، الدين المتمثّل بالكنيسة التي حاربت غاليليو الذي أعلن عن إيمانه بمركزية الشمس وبأن الأرض تدور حولها.
Say what you want about the anti-Catholic undertones and the semi-racist portrayal of the antagonist, there’s no denying the intensity of the writing.
This is a real page turner, the kind that keeps you reading until three in the morning and makes you want to skip to the end of the book just to see what’s happening.
Critically speaking, there is so much wrong with this book but I can’t deny how successful it is at keeping the reader involved.
Dan Brown hooks his reader, using mystery and suspense as bait, and it is so very easy to bite on the line.
This was Brown's book before the infamous "The Da Vinci Code." In many ways, this book was like a rough draft for "The Da Vinci Code", same character Langdon, same other characters, same basic start, same concepts, same bad research passed off as fact, same trick of having nearly every chapter end in cliffhanger, the same in so many ways.Sadly, I think he did a better job the first time around.
Not bad in of itself, but then Brown doesn't ever provide any reason Langdon was involved after that.Of course, you aren't supposed to notice while reading it, and preferably not afterwards, either.
Religion always was, is, has been, and always will be a very sensitive subject for me.
However this book was a "battle" of religion and science.
There was a page I found to be very thought-provoking."Religion is like language or dress.
In the end, though, we are all proclaiming the same thing."Langdon was intrigued.
Look at the diffusion of religion around the globe.""So faith is random?""Hardly.
Faith is universal.
In the end, we all are just searching for truth, that which is greater for ourselves." - page 110This does explain a lot of things for me...
Review  4+ out of 5 stars to Dan Brown's Angels & Demons, the first book in his "Robert Langdon" thriller series. When I saw the movie trailer for The Da Vinci Code, I was hooked and immediately bought the book so I could read it first. When I got home, I realized it was not the first in the series...I refused to read it... and then I went to the store and got the first one, Angels & Demons, so I could read them in order. And while it's not really necessary, I always follow the order (
When I saw the movie trailer for The Da Vinci Code, I was hooked and immediately bought the book so I could read it first.
and then I went to the store and got the first one, Angels & Demons, so I could read them in order.
don't be hating on this review because I willOn a more serious note, the climax with each of the murders, the deep connections to so many Catholic rituals and ceremonies, the brilliance of the chase...
It's exactly the kind of book I like to read:1.
I love reading about murder -- since I won't do it in real life, I have to get my thrills somehow3.
However, at the end of the day, it was pretty much a by the numbers thriller, complete with forced sexual tension.Like I said, it's pretty Indiana Jones-ish, except instead of an archaeologist who has crazy globe-trotting adventures, Langdon is a symbologist who has crazy globe-trotting adventures.As much as I want to hate on this book, it's a page turner; Short chapters, nearly all of them ending on a cliffhanger.
It almost feels like Brown was trying to do a Black Dynamite-style commentary/spoof on conspiracy thrillers.One thing I didn't enjoy is that the book suffers from "I did a bit of research so I'm going to cram it all in the dialogue" syndrome.
Angels and Demons by Dan Brown was one of the best page-turners I have ever read.
I can usually guess what is going to happen in thrillers, but Dan Brown did a wonderful job keeping everything a mystery until absolutely necessary to reveal the secrets.
Never having read the Da Vinci Code before hand I didn’t have as high of expectations as most people do when going to read Angels and Demons.
Angels and Demons is Dan Brown at his best.
Having traveled to Rome and seeing the places talked about in the novel Dan Brown did a wonderful job putting the readers in the places talked about.
Unfortunately, in one part of the book, given twenty minutes, the protagonists can, say, drink tea and eat scones, talk at length about their theories about what's happening, run from one location to another, save someone, and research an important historical fact.
This really, really frustrating thing where the protagonist, Langdon, is this brainy professor that can supposedly figure out these relatively obscure, secret messages hidden by other brainy men hundreds of years ago in order to save the world...
Even I can see that!!And, finally, lines like, "The silence that followed might as well have been thunder." Um, what...
Is this Brown's version of "A thunderous silence followed..."?
أفضل ما كتب دان براون من وجهة نظري الشخصية .. تجربة سينمائية فريدة على الورق .. و تفوق إثارة كلماتها مشاهدَ الفيلم الذي تم انتاجه في 2009 ..يُرجى ربط الأحزمة فور قراءتك الصفحة الأولى منها .. و تمتع بـ رحلة "تاريخية - مليئة بـ الرموز"..
This is an excerpt from my review of Inferno, which I read before Angels and Demons - With this glowing rating for Inferno, I seal my place among the cheap thrill seeking, easy going, instant gratification demanding readers.
I welcome that the other Robert Langdon books follow the same tired schema.
Now then, it felt to me that most of the book was not living to this sugary craving of pulp literature.
This brought me back to earth, when I was once airborne.
However the book picked up for a fiery, flowery third act.
By the end I was sweating bullets.
Esta historia es cronológicamente anterior a la de El código Da Vinci.Todo comienza cuando convocan a Robert Landon para decifrar algunos códigos dejados en el cuerpo de un científico muerto. Esto ligará a la iglesia contra la ciencia en una legendaria historia de odio.Y el origen de todo es totalmente inimaginable.La película no es tan buena adaptación como la anterior y se pierde totalmente el motivo del origen de toda la historia.
I actually prefered Angels and Demons over The DaVinci Code.
Stuffing the book with glimpses of false trails and dead ends to keep the reader in the dark, so to speak.
But it could have all taken place in a virtual world like the internet or a library with mischievous librarians swapping cards around so old ladies can no longer find their Mills and Boons.Any good book should involve, include, confront or enrage the reader – this book cored out the reader’s personality so that by the end you didn’t care if there were 30 more pages yet to go as the final threads of the convoluted narrative finally unravelled.This book (maybe all Dan Brown books) should come with a mental health warning: At no point in the reading of this book was the reader in danger of thinking.An ultimately vacuous exercise in Franchise Management D.B. even sneaked in an early reference to the following Professor Langdon mystery The DaVinci Code.
That was one of the best novels I`ve ever readHere is one of the most few fact I believe in...There`
This was an interesting read that makes you ask yourself so many questions. I am not one to comment on religion or anything so no worries, there will be no rants! I have not seen the movie based on this book yet but seen it is free on demand so will probably check it out tonight or tomorrow. I will continue the series, but I believe I have read a couple of these books already awhile back but now want to read in order.
I like his way of thinking, and he knows how to perfectly describe a place or a building, so that you would love to visit and explore every single one of them.And when it comes to the book as a whole, it impacted my beliefs quite a bit.
I remember when I first read it, and how it changed my viewpoints on religion, science, Church, and even God as well.
They are not the opposite things, and just like Brown said in this book:'Science and religion are not at odds.
We have a term called ‘paisa vasool’ in Hindi. It means ‘worth the money’ and is generally used in reference to films. A mainstream Bollywood film is termed paisa vasool and is commercially successful only when it constitutes the following factors:1) A hero who can do anything and everything under the sun. He can achieve impossible feats and always survives bizarre accidents.2) A heroine comes across as smart independent women in beginning but turns into a cardboard cutout by the end. Just anoth
A mainstream Bollywood film is termed paisa vasool and is commercially successful only when it constitutes the following factors:1)	A hero who can do anything and everything under the sun.
He can achieve impossible feats and always survives bizarre accidents.2)	A heroine comes across as smart independent women in beginning but turns into a cardboard cutout by the end.
In the end the hero saves the day and then shares some steamy/mushy moments with the heroine.Halfway through Angels and Demons, I realized that except for the trademark bollywood songs, this book shared every other characteristic of a typical masala film.
In the first, I don't know, 30 pages or so a character is "overwhelmed" by the smell of frozen urine.
Frozen things don't smell, let alone overwhelmingly.
Shortly thereafter an expert in religion (or whatever he is, I've tried to block it out) is shocked to see a study containing both scientific and religious items.
I should have put the book down then, but then I would have missed unbelievable characters, hackneyed descriptions and spitting in the face of the laws of physics and physiology.
Use the book to balance your wobbly kitchen table and read the back of your cereal box instead.
There are times that it feels like you're watching a documentary, but an exciting one at that!
Brown always uses a gorgeous place as the background of his story.
Places that when you read the book you will want to visit.
You feel like you are there with the characters, you want to solve the mystery.What I don't like sometimes about Brown's books is that he rushes the ending too much without giving a full explanation to all of my questions (Dear "The Lost Symbol", I am talking about you).
Romp I read The Da Vinci Code and then Angels and Demons one after the other or was it the same one twice.
The Da Vinci Code was a fast-paced thriller that was a rollicking good read and became a huge success and a movie.
Angels and Demons was a fast-paced thriller that was a rollicking good read and became a huge success and a movie.
The stories make good films because the plots and storylines are captivating and feed our appetite for conspiracy theories and age-old vendettas stretching back over millennia.
For once I much prefer the films!
You see, I've been telling anyone who would listen (my poor husband, mainly), about Dan Brown's atrocious writing style.
But I am forced to admit that I turned those pages pretty rapidly--maybe a hundred a day near the end.
After all, I had to find out if Harvard symbologist Robert Langdon and CERN physicist Vittoria Vetra would find the stolen antimatter hidden deep within the Vatican walls by the defunct-but-seemingly-resurrected religion-hating, science-loving, Freemason-infiltrating Illuminati cult.
Angels & Demons is stitched together with just enough historical and scientific facts to get me to buy its shaky premise and continue reading.
I enjoyed "The Da Vinci Code" as a trashy good time, but then read this one and just couldn't stop rolling my eyes.
Not only was it silly and formulaic, it made the silly formula underlying "The Da Vinci Code" all too clear.
Another middle-aged yet strangely attractive/brilliant male protagonist -- oh wait, the same one from the other book?
Another grisly murder of an old dude kicking things off?
Another hot foreign chick, related to the dead dude, helping solve the mystery?
I can enjoy a trashy book, sure, but not when you're rubbing my nose in the stink...
