https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1845839.Not_My_Will
Normally if I rate a book years after I read it, I give it a rating based on my enjoyment at the time of reading, rather than my opinion now.
With Not My Will, I'm going to break my own rule.I received Not My Will as a gift through my church, either at Christmas time, or for a Sunday School Anniversary (weren't they nice people!).
My rating at the time would have been 3 or 4 stars, as even though I had no real similarity to the main character, the story was enjoyable, and the characters complex and likeable.Sometime in the late noughties, I decided I'd give the book another re-read.
I read this book when I was about thirteen.
I struggled with giving up my way and bending to God's will or the direction of my authorities.
The character in this book reflected some of the sin issues I was battling.
Surrender is so hard; but God wants us to truly be able to say "Not my will, but Thine be done." We find fulfillment in Him when we let go of our way.I recommend this book for any young Christian ladies looking for a novel that will not only be enjoyable, but also challenging.
I read it in a matter of days.My blog: www.oursureanchor.com
I find myself being a literary snob too often (same with movies), not giving credit for a good plot or moving story when the writing is mediocre compared to masterpieces I have enjoyed.
This book was comfort food and a bittersweet story that was easy to read, which I will remember for a long time.
Through much suffering God brings many sons to glory was its theme, a theme of every Christian's life at one time or another, though many of us think our trials are unique.
God's patient love and providence are portrayed in the life of Eleanor, the heroine of the story.
Grandma's best book--even though her style is dated by today's standards, this one still touches my heart every time I read it.
I know this is a fictional story, but it was nice to see the characters give things over to the Lord in prayer and trust in Him. To see things work together for their good reminded me that God works all things together for the good of those who love Him. I was very much encouraged.What I Didn't Like: I can't say I disliked anything in this book.
Arnold did a very good job with this story and I definitely want to read more books by her.I give this book 5 stars for an excellent story portraying the sorrows of choosing to live selfishly and then the joys of living for the Lord.
This is one of the most best books I've read. I've read it two or three times and cried every time. The lessons and faith aspect is huge in this book. Eleanor learns that she must trust God's will, not her own. At first Eleanor is not very likable, but she's one of those characters that takes a little bit to warm up to. I really, really, really like Chad, and could relate to his struggle with having a relationship with God and making certain things in his life less important. Worth a read and I highly recommend.
I love this book! I can hardly tell how many times I've reread it. It's got parts that are very sad, as the main character has to learn some tough lessons in life; but it is so sweet. And the ending is beautiful!
One of the best books I ever read. I even cried.
With a lot of books I've read, I end feeling the character was fake or not very realistic - It was not that way with Len. Every moment of her sorrow, confusion, and despair, I felt that I was right there with her.
Then when she embraced the joy that Christ offers, I felt myself erupting with hapiness as if I were there watching it.While I enjoyed Phillip's character in the story as he helped bring joy back to Eleanor, I could not bring myself to cherish him as I cherished Chad.
This was a great book. My sisters told me about it, and I didn't think I would like it, but then I read it and loved it. It is really neat to see how Eleanor goes from a proud, worldly woman, to a genuine Christian. Her romance is very sweet, and the book goes far beyond her first love, it is really about her first few years as a Christian. Please read this book! It's to bad it's not a popular book anymore
This is a book that readers will both love and ate. The protagonist makes some impossible decisions with which she has to live. So much like real life that I threw the book across the room when I was little more than half way through. I did not pick it up to read again until years later. I laughed and cried, mostly cried but I still treasure this book more than most others. I guess sometimes we need to cry.
Francena Arnold has written an amazing and outstanding piece of work that makes one look at their inner soul and being. I have read this book several times and learn many new things each time I read this. Believe this is a book for all ages. I challenge everyone who reads this book to examine their own lives to be all the person you can be.
Eleanor Stewart was a head strong girl who had some definite ideas about her life. And God had some other. Which leads to the battle of wills. See how Eleanor's attitude changes to work, life and love and her journey to surrendering her life completely to the Lord of the Universe.
This is one of my favorite books. I've read it several times. Such great life lessons about humility, surrender, and the blessings that come only when we allow God to be in control. Such loveable characters in this treasure.
This is my absolute favorite Christian fiction book of all time! I first read it as a teen, then several more times as an adult. It tells the story of headstrong Eleanor Stewart, who learns through life's hard lessons to allow God to master her will. You will not regret reading this book!
I loved this book from the first time I read it. It's a very inspirational story about surrounding to God's will and overcoming our sin nature. Despite the many times that I have read this book, I still enjoy every reading.
Read several years ago. Very good book. Tear-jerker.
I read this book years ago and and still remember it. It was pretty good, I suppose that's all I need to say.
A sweet, old fashioned story of surrender.
This was probably the first book to get me into reading. I read it in high school and I have read it many times again. A good story about Love, Loss and Love again.
I really enjoyed this book!! I also learned a lot of important truths that I need to apply to my own life. This book came at just the right time!
I read this book in 1978. It was a fabulous book. I reread in 2010. Just ask remembered.
I read all of Francena Arnold's books as a teenager and loved nearly all! This was one of the best.
One of my long time favorites, it is written a long time ago, but still holds lessons for us today!
This was an AMAZING read. Heartbreaking and uplifting.
Old fashioned and sentimental, but it is a beloved story of a woman who learns to give all her will to God in spite of the loss of her inheritance, her husband and her child.
As Helen faced the reality that her head knowledge of Christ had never brought about a change in her heart, the Spirit nudged me and said, "That's your problem too, Angela." I immediately knelt down and asked the Lord Jesus to forgive me of my sins and come into my heart.
Now, more than a quarter century later, it occurred to me that I had not read the book since that night.
As a work of fiction, this book is excellent, with clear descriptions, great character development, and steady movement of the plot.
One of my favorites.
First read this one while living overseas in Fiji on a humanitarian volunteer stint.
Arnold's works are a bit obscure nowadays, even in Christian circles, but she was an early pioneer in Christian fiction.
There are some cliches that I could've done without.
Also, this is an old-school pick so there are gender stereotypes.
Speaking of gender stereotypes, I do think those of the female gender (or whatever) would get more out of this.
She's dynamic and that's why the old-school vibes didn't bug me too much.
Haven't read any of Francena Arnold's other books but plan on it.**4.5 stars**
The writing is very dated and not up to today's standards but if you are willing to look past that, the story and lessons are well worth it.
I chose to read this book because I had come across a copy at a used book sale and remembered that it was one my mom had loved.
She read it many times in her teen and young adult years and I can remember at least a couple of times when I was very small that mom would stay up all night re-reading this special story.
After many years, I now understand why.
This book is one of favorite books.
The reason I liked it so well was because it was so real.
Eleanor is the main character.
She has strong will and lived with her aunt most of her life because her parents died when she was young.
Her aunt would not let her hang around boys.
This made Eleanor upset.
When she got older she went to college and started into her work.
One night she went to a party and was around this man named Chad.
Read this great book to find out why and what happens after that.
It is a great book.
