https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/925368.Travels_With_Myself_and_Another
At the time she wrote this book in 1978, she had traveled to 53 countries and every state in the US except Alaska, and she had lived in 7 of those countries with 11 permanent residences in them.
But this book isn't about her love of traveling and her greatest adventures producing fond memories.
Unfortunately, in this book, Ms. Gellhorn's incredible sense of humor and witty banter couldn't balance out the fact that she was an unrepentant bigot.
But in this book, she spent an inordinate amount of time targeting people who weren't white.
I'm trying to consider this is 1940s, and from a particular perspective, but it still grates." Some of her attitude can be explained by the fact that the people she observes (not interacts with, there's very little mutual intercourse) are usually speaking a different language, poor and dirty by Western standards.
(Or is that my racism?)I don't get the sense that Gelhorn learned much on these trips; not about herself, and not about the individuals she met, nor the societies she observed.
Rather than the stoic war reporter you might expect her to be, Gellhorn is filled with piss and vinegar at the injustice with which so many people in the world are treated AND the old cigarette butts that were left in her hotel room.
I am filled with an itch to travel after reading this wonderful book, and a quite separate itch to get my hands on the rest of Gellhorn's writing.
Twice Gellhorn has unwilling companions, in China where she compels her then husband to accompany her on a work trip as she covers the Sino-Japanese war for Colliers.
The second journey where she hires a questionable boat and crew to sail the Caribbean hunting grounds of Nazi U-boats is like the China trip a not-too successful effort on war reporting, though she did interview rescued sailors.
It is an engaging read, not brilliant like her war correspondence, but descriptive and thoughtful, bringing the reader to places and times that have undergone dramatic change since her journeys, adding interest to already interesting accounts.
Gellhorn calls them horror journeys, selecting the worst of her traveling experiences for this book.
Martha Gellhorn was an accomplished war reporter and was familiar with uncomfortable travel accommodations, but that was during war time.
The book starts out, after some introductions, with her desired trip to China.
(They were only married about four years.) The China trip is appalling in her descriptions, their main goal is really just to survive.
The bulk of the book covers her trip to Africa some years later.
Makes it feel like modern writing has deteriorated.
Witty, ascerbic and with a great ability to laugh at herself too - but also prejudiced, dismissive and seemingly impervious to the burdens that other people are carrying. This is a book about Gellhorn's worst travel experiences. Usually in places of dire poverty. Situations that ought to be approached sympathetically, via an historical or sociological perspective, just looked at with blunt cynicism and humour. She also has prejudices that simply aren't true. Half way through, and I've had enough.
Whenver I start to complain about the long flight to California with the kids, I remember this book and shut my mouth. And ask the flight attendant for more wine. Some women are just more adventurous than others (me). And some women survive being married to Papa Hemingway!
The movie took one chapter of this book,the one where she travels with husband Ernest Hemingway, and finally brought this outstanding singular woman to the attention of the world that should have known her name as easily as her best friend Elinor Roosevelt or Edward R.
You will travel the planet and laugh and be moved and though not envy certainly marvel at her trips and the rich style of her writing that puts you right in the midst of where she is smells, tastes, sounds, sights vividly captured.
What a marvel this book is.
Gellhorn is funny, acerbic and a brilliant writer who can describe a scene unforgettably.
Hemingway is mentioned only in the China expedition of 1941—but their relationship, at that point, is rather a caustic delight, both parties equally adept at adventure and repartee.
Gellhorn who titles each journey as one of horror visits Africa from coast to coast, fascinated by the animals especially her favorites, the giraffes, and perpetually in danger from following her impulses, driving an aging Land Rover with her supposed guide Joshua, who turns out to be a coddled passenger fearful of the wild.
Her visit to Mrs. M.
Fascinating - exciting - exhilarating travel memoirs of one of the wives of Ernest Hemingway. She loves cleanliness and comfort but ends up going through hellish conditions again and again as a war correspondent. The language is a delight. The observations unique. The narrative surprises one over and over and the book is unputdownable.
3,5/5En el lado positivo de este libro de Martha Gellhorn, destacar su valiente papel así como el retrato de una época, países y momentos convulsos. Por el lado negativo, para Martha Gellhorn, el aburrimiento era uno de los parámetros que definían un viaje infernal. De esta forma, el libro contiene varios momentos de lectura tediosa al reflejar precisamente el tedio que se vivia en el viaje. El hecho de que la crónica se escribiera años después, basándose en notas o recuerdos, hacen que el libro pierda frescura en varios momentos.
Travel is always a mixed bag - messy days of irritation and frustration, juxtaposed with all the wonderfully enriching experiences that you're supposed to have.
I've certainly never read a book that so honestly expresses the disappointments, annoyances and sheer tedium of the bad days.
It is easy enough to identify with the annoyance of travel, but when the every day drudgery is mixed with significant moments of history, a whole new perspective is created.
But still the real experience shines through, of cold, awful food and revolting toilets.It's a book of its time, and Martha is an honest writer.
This occurs, as a divine surprise, in travel; this is why I will never finish travelling."If you think Hemingway is a fearless adventurer, you must not be acquainted with Martha Gellhorn, a renowned war correspondent and his third wife.
While a prolific journalist and lifelong traveler, Travels with Myself and Another is her first and only memoir which reflects on her experiences at any length.
Gellhorn's memoir is a chronicle of her most memorable (read, disastrous) travels, often hilarious, always potently delivered.
While she was undoubtedly the most experienced female war correspondent of the century, this book is less about her war travels than her personal travels.
The book focuses mainly on four 'horror' trips (as she calls them).
First China with H in the early war years; then the pre-development Caribbean, also early in the war.
Lastly a horrid week in Moscow to visit an elderly writer.
Gellhorn paints a vivid and wretched picture of Communist Moscow and laughingly quotes, "Two cheers for capitalism." Also, if you haven't seen the movie "Hemingway & Gellhorn," it is a really good movie.
I looked her up and found that she was one of the most remarkable journalists of the 21st century and decided to check out a few of her books.
This book seemed the most interesting to me-a recollection of her extensive world travels from her perspective as an older person, having seen extraordinary changes in the world, and in travel.The first essay, on her trip to pre-revolutionary China in 1941 was fantastic; besides being laugh out loud funny at times, it was a vivid snapshot of China under Chiang Kai-shek before the Communist Revolution.
I didn't find the second essay as compelling but may read the rest of this book another time.
Martha Gellhorn doesn't use Ernest Hemingway's name when she is writing about travels she made with him, but by the time I finished my last adventure with her, I realized he'd been in the entire book, on every one of her journeys, and not because of her writing style.
It is very different than his.
It was the way she wrote of him, when she did, which was rare, but it was so powerful, I could actually feel the touch of one soul mate to another.
Gellhorn is captivating, bold, reckless, romantic, and deeply, powerfully, and hypnotically inspired to help the world.
I will read this book again and again.

Gellhorn is a lady from another time, but her travels are more extensive and adventurous than most contemporaries. She resisted the temptations luxury and the practicality of comfortable, safe travel for the adventures that would take her to the places on the planet that few people would experience, allying herself with characters that would give most people pause. Her memoir is inspiring in its humanity and spirit.
There is no 'travel' catagory on my bookshelves, this could change that omission. Gelhorn wrote a very literate book about travel upto and at the end of the era of such activity. Compared to the cattle car and amusement park experience of today, there is little or no adult reference for readers born after the early to mid 1970's. Entertaining if eclectic read that includes some famous people she met and married and spent quality time around.
Author is the third wife of Hemingway, who enters the book briefly.A journalist attempts to construct a memoir from her incomplete or indecipherable travel diaries. Yes, she was brave and searched off-the-beaten-track, which often amounted to very little. China, Caribbean, Africa, Russia, Israel. She seemed bored. Why should the reader be anything less than bored?
What bores whom? Couldn't always hold my attention; some parts were, I am sad to report, racist in sentiment. Still, a fascinating woman full of fascinating observations of the world--and she made it a point to see the world and form her own opinions, which I can respect, even if I can't always get on board with said opinions.
Martha Gellhorn is as narcissistic as Ernest Hemingway, who is her companion in some of these travel pieces. But she also comes across as a woman who chooses an unconventional life as an explorer. Hemingway comes across as much more interesting and humorous than his own writing reveals. I liked him better than her in these essays.
Probably my favourite book of travel writing of all time. Sharply observant, hilariously funny. I love how ruthlessly truthful she is - this is a breath of fresh air in a world smothered in PR and the cheery optimism of social media.A book I re-read again and again.
Tedious
It is now amongst my greatest sadnesses in life that I will never have the chance to meet this amazing woman, who speaks to me in ways that few other humans, living or dead, ever have.
Really well written, but hard to get over her flagrant bigotry. She doesn't want to know people from other races and from meeting a handful of people writes everyone off as 'lazy' or 'smelly'.
Utterly brilliant. What a dame - they don't make them like that any more. My personal fave was China during the Sino-Japanese war but there's gems to be had here in all locations.
Loved this. She was a brave and keen-eyed traveller (and often grouchy, which I can relate to!). Fantastic read.
At other times, I cringed at her condescension as she minutely chronicled the braided hair, facial scarification, and distended breasts of women in village markets in Chad, as if she were a biologist rather than a fellow human.
I could not excuse her racism as a product of the general willful ignorance of earlier times, because she is so clear-sighed when addressing imperialism, environmental depredations, and classism.
In chronicling times and places where few white people ventured, Gellhorn both suffered from and perpetuated the stereotypes that artificially separate us.
Martha Gellhorn was a magazine writer and war correspondent and the third wife of Ernest Hemingway.
I wanted to read some of her writing and I wanted to know how she got sucked into marrying Hemingway.
In this book her work takes her to WWII era China (with Hemingway in tow) and looking for German submarines in the Caribbean, and her personal travels in the early 1970's to Africa and the USSR.At one point in Africa, while surveying the reprehensible living conditions of the natives, Gellhorn enters a mud hut to find that its occupants cannot stand upright inside their own homes.
