https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/761256.Bound_for_Glory
The first part of the book is about Guthrie's childhood (apart from the first chapter set in the early 40s.
The longer the book goes on the more the music takes over.
However there are gaps and the book jumps from the age of 18 to about 24; there is no mention of his wife and three children at all.
All the alluring stories of life on the road are set against the wife and kids at home.
There is an interesting paragraph towards the end when Guthrie talking about singing live with Cisco and he describes his audience; " stealers, dealers, sidewalk spielers; ...
He had a rough life right from the git go, and this book tells us bit by bit about some of the tragedies that shaped the man he became.He was a working man who bummed around the country, singing songs about the life and the people he saw around him.
This book tells about his childhood, his family, his years on the road, his philosophy of life.
The rodeos that must have resulted while half a dozen boys were taming these stick horses all at the same time would have been such fun to see!
The jacket of the book has a quote from the Springfield Republican that reads, “Reading Bound for Glory is an emotional experience far more stirring for some readers at least, than even the penetrating Grapes of Wrath.” Guthrie’s being compared to Steinbeck?
Boy was I surprised – not only because this is a fantastic work, but also because this work is not more well known or celebrated among literary circles, music circles, or historical circles.Guthrie’s vivid descriptions transplant the reader back to a time when poverty, grit, hard work and traveling were the norm in this country.
This story transcends time: the struggle, the camaraderie, the human kindness, and the universal joy of music that makes this country great.
It is not the usual boring biography, he is simply telling stories, in his own unique way.
His stories made me think, what would I have done in the same situation.
Could I have rode in the box car, waited to pick the apricots, saw my sister burned to death and kept going.
Could I take a beating on the dead main street and still manage to keep going?
I really enjoyed reading this and would recommend it anyone simply looking to expand their world by shedding a little light into a life so very different from your own.
How can people really write like THIS when I can barely scratch out a little review here?
There's not much music in here until the end, but his story itself reads as this jaw-dropping rambling epic earthy American folk ballad.
The back of my crumbling 1970 mass market edition quotes the following review.
I will just nod vigorously:"Even readers who never heard Woody or his songs will understand the current esteem in which he is held after reading just a few pages...
always shockingly immediate and real, as if Woody were telling it out loud...
A folk song is what's wrong and how to fix it or it could be who's hungry and where their mouth is or who's out of work and where the job is or who's broke and where the money is or who's carrying a gun and where the peace is.
First published back in 1943, Woody's biography remains one of the essential works in the poptastic genre.
In 2012, Woody Guthrie's Centennial Year, B.F.G. is still a classic of twentieth century American folk music.If I have read this previously, it was decades ago.
Described as 'one of the patron saints of American rebelliousness'Guthrie's life is lived in Steinbeck or Kerouac fiction.
Bob Dylan's music turned me on to Woody Guthrie.
His story begins as a young boy and his years at home with his mother.
I've read another book, Seeds of Man, about one of Woody's adventures which includes information about another “accidental” fire that leaves his father suffering from extensive burns.
In Bob Dylan's poem, Last Thoughts on Woody Guthrie, he says, “And where do you look for this hope that yer seekin' ….
You'll find Woody Guthrie in Brooklyn State Hospital.” It might be assumed that Bob is comparing Woody to God … but I believe in Woody there was always hope.
I first read this book when I was in my last year of high school, many years ago. Woody Guthrie was my hero then, and he still is. This book is a great road book, but that is perhaps 1/100th of why the man is my hero. Woody spoke for the people, the real people, - disenfranchised, broken up, busted down - the man/woman who has no idea where his next meal is coming from, let alone where in the hell he's going to sleep that night.
Loved this - the stories were like so many songs I know and the drawings were exellent.
This book was quite different from anything I usually read.
(It was assigned for school - otherwise, I would never have read it.) What I liked:1.
Seriously, why was this included in the book??
I did NOT need to read such an effed up scene - so I skipped it.
The story never really seemed to go anywhere; it was just his recollection of events and conversations mashed into one book.
The ending wasn't very satisfying.
I'm not sure what exactly I was expecting, but it wasn't that - very abrupt.
If I had read this in my 20's it would have been my bible: the ramblin' man. It took me a very long time to read this as it was pretty slow and boring (but not at all boring because I loved it). Truly a brilliant person and a prophet was Woody. I cherish his words.
When I went to a local book store to buy it the clerk in the music section was surprised firstly that it was still in publication having been written in the forties, and secondly that given that…that they did not have it in stock!
It’s interesting and kind of frightening at the same time.
His mother, who it’s thought likely had the same medical issues that plagued Guthrie in later life, set fire to their house at least twice.
You see where he began to take his inspiration from when you see how his mother affects him in the early years.
For 20th century history buffs, and music lovers of the folk time period this book is essential.
The words in the book seem to be ghostwritten at some points, I don't know for sure if they are or are not, but the drawings really make Woody seem tangible while you read his autobiography.
It is, of course, not Woody's complete story, but it is a good story that he told.
It certainly doesn't go into any of the time when Woody started to get sick with Huntington's disease.
The book was made into a movie starring David Carradine, which is pretty good, but not great.
A great story told by a great man.
The historical aspect of the yarn and also the language used added interest.
The use of language and some of the hobo slang picked up may have been one of my favorite aspects.
He is writing in the style of Steinbeck, Sarayon, Twain and others and makes similar social commentaries by revealing to an equal degree that the characters could be blammed and fate can play a role.
He keeps the characters somewhat honest but tends, rather unusually, to lean on the postive side.
I have always thought of Woody as a legit hobo.
For thesis research...Here ol' Guthrie hits the rails and highways - a vagabond and his guitar.
But you don't get to those adventures until midway through the book - half the damn book is about his childhood adventures and once someone's told you two stories about barnyard shenanigans involving slingshots and spiders, well, you've heard them all.
He never mentions how he decides to pick up the guitar, nor how he learned to play it; it just magically appears in his hands and the songs pour forth.
Though that's a bit disappointing, I think Guthrie did it with intent.
Oh please: I grew up on Woody (from my parents) and then Arlo (my time).
This book was in the house I grew up in (actually, apartment but you know what I mean).
I used it to build home for my dolls before I was old enough to read it; I read it before I was old enough to understand it (8?
9? years old-in those days, we couldn't afford that many books and I read whatever I could).
I always loved it-my father had a story about when he met Woody, in the kitchen of some activist or another and I guess I'll always love it.
Just, read it, ok?
This is probably one of the most inspiring books by a musician I've ever read. Woody lived a hard travelling life during the great depression, writing songs that reflected the life he was living and the plight of his people.They were the poor migrating farm workers from all the Dust Bowl states that moved west following the terrible ecological disaster that hit the region during the 1930's. Steinbeck would have loved to have invented Woody Guthrie, only Woody got there first. Woody was real American folk hero and the book is brim full of his great enduring spirit.
Finished reading this treasure right before starting our Dirty Thirties unit in American History. I have always adored Woody Guthrie, but this sent my love for him through the roof. You can hear his lyrics through his writing. His figurative language dances off the pages. He truly makes one of the hardest times in American history shine with beauty through his words and love for life and his fellow man. What an incredible national treasure Woody Guthrie and this piece of work are.
Here are a few sections I liked especially, that are also short enough to type out quickly:I looked down at the ground and said, "Well sir, men, I ain't no fortune teller.
Then ya can call it any name ya like."Everybody stood as still as a bunch of mice."We gotta all git together an' find out some way ta build this country up.
We gotta all git together, dam it all, an' make somebody give us a job somewhere doin' somethin'!189-190----------------You've seen a million people like this already.
It was cold and nice, and I popped the little stopper out of one of the Jake bottles, and poured the Jake into the root beer.
The sound was as quiet as a change in the weather, and yet, it was as strong as he needed.""There is a stage of hard luck that turns into fun, and a stage of poverty that turns into pride, and a place in laughing that turns into fight.""Thank the good lord, everybody, everything ain't all slicked up, and starched, and imitation.
Woody sees the inherent unfairness in the failed lassaix-faire Free Market Capitalism of his time, much as we are seeing now, but like another gangly man with a good voice that we are hearing today, he never gives up hope in the actual people he encounters and their ability to survive, mend and learn from their predicament.
I first heard of Woody Guthrie through the Bob Dylan tracks ‘Song for Woody’ and ‘Last Thoughts On Woody Guthrie but he drifted out of my consciousness until Brue Springsteen recorded his ‘Tom Jaod’ album but again this didn’t particularly hold my attention until Billy Bragg recorded the ‘Mermaid Avenue’ albums when I suddenly found I had two LP’s of fantastic songs by a singer-songwriter of whom I’d never heard.
To right this obvious wrong a bought a Woody Guthrie compilation and fell in love with such songs as ‘Do Re Mi’, ‘Blowin’ Down this Road’ and lots of songs concerning Dust and Talking.Everything I could find written about Woody seemed very reverential or very dismissive and he had clearly being canonised by the American left whilst being vilified by the American right.
A gritty American tale of life in the early 20th century.
Woody narrates life out on the Oklahoma plain, from a simple, easy childhood that ended too quickly when the Dust Bowl came around and his parents left town and he was out trying to fend for himself at the age of 14.
A true tale of strength and an inspiration for everyone to create art and work hard, this book is filled with insights into the true spirit of humans; the need to look out for each other and come together in times of struggle.
This is a brilliant piece of work.
Part of the weird alien nature of this book is how family members disappear casually from Guthrie's life.
All of these events are narrated as if family disappearing is a matter of course, and maybe it was, for people who had lost everything, even their will to love one another, and who needed to move to wherever they could find sustenance and shelter.
I listened to the book as narrated by Arlo Guthrie, and this added to my experience--the words on the page were extremely difficult to parse for me, given the dialect it is written in, and I never would have made my way through it except by listening to the audiobook.
I think it is a very dear, wonderful, and important book.
This is what Guthrie says about hearing "Worried Man Blues" in a Dust Bowl camp, "It was so clear and honest sounding, no Hollywood put-on, no fake wiggling...And, instead of getting you all riled up mentally, morally, or sexually-- no it done something a whole lot better, something that's harder to do, something you need ten times more.
If that level of corny-ness doesn't crack you up then this book is not for you.
I don't often read memoirs or biographies, but I was inspired to pick this up because of Guthrie's centennial birthday celebration. As a life history it's very incomplete, but as a series of vignettes that give you insight into Guthrie's formative years it's very effective. He certainly had the ability to paint a picture with his words! I was also impressed with how he maintained his compassion and a general sweetness of character in spite of (or perhaps because of?) a great deal of tragedy and hardship in his life. A very enjoyable departure from my typical reading.
There's a reason Bound for Glory left more of an impression on Bob Dylan than even On The Road. It gives what may be the best portrait of America ever in literature.After pouring over the thousand songs that Guthrie wrote in his lifetime, Billy Bragg stated that he believes Guthrie is America's greatest poet, right up there with Whitman.Read this book and find out the true nature of America, or reestablish it.
I recommend every American and music lover to read this book. Woody Guthrie had a fantastic way of telling his life story, using the language with which he grew up hearing and speaking himself. Think uneducated southern dialect. I became so invested and interested in his stories that it bothered me to put the book down.
Guthrie's autobiography. I've wanted to read it for years just never got to it. Finally I did and I wasn't dissapointed. First non-fiction I'd read in a while so I had to prepare my mind for that. Great to ride on the trains, steal cars, and hitchick along with Guthrie.
There are lies, damn lies and statistics. This book is the second one but I love a tall tale and it is an engaging story. I know this is supposed to be an autobiography but he seems to have liberally borrowed from the lives of others...and I am ok with that.
