https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1226215.The_Millennium
I thought the book was good overall but I never like when anyone writes with the distinct purpose of forcing their ideas on me ... at least not when they do it as blatantly as Sinclair did it here.Socialism is a FINE idea, in my opinion, and I would support it if it could ever work on a large scale. Sinclair has it work here but it is a very small number of people.Love the idea of Socialism prevailing over everything, however, I am a realist and recognize that it could never happen.
As an attempt at philosophy, Mr. Sinclair comes across as extraordinarily naive, biased, and very ignorant or very very willing to misrepresent the opposing position.
He, like so many others, attempts to drag the Bible into his arguments on the negative side but his characters do not represent the Biblical faith well.
This may very well be an accurate portrayal of the denominations of the world, but the way Sinclair uses it is more in line with an attack on the Bible itself and all who hold it to be Truth.
Read this a few months back. This was Sinclair pumping up his ideal of a Utopian commune, took a bit of time off from muckraking the oil and meat packing industries and had some fun.Written in early 20th century, talks about the world ending in the year 2000 and only a handful of survivors living in NYC and how they sustain themselves. Most are rich but useless once they have no servants. Talks about wireless phones, cars and air travel way before their time. Pretty cool
Poorly written, this is one of the least favorite works in my library. It reads like a strong high school creative writing assignment given more length.
Heavy handed and rather cartoon like utopian satire.
"The last capitalist had starved to death. He had been too lazy to work, so he perished; and with him perished his system." Well, we can dream, right?
Interesting look at turn of the century view of the future. Characters represent economic philosophies to the extreme.
Socialism doesn't work. This book was entertaining, but pointless as a political commentary.
Though provoking social satire.
