https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/858037.Danny_and_the_Dinosaur
Neo I took the lead with this book, exploring the origins of the relationship between Danny and the Dinosaur.
After visiting a museum, Danny discovers a new (and 100 million year-old) friend.
Neo struggled a little and we took four sit-down reading periods to complete this book, but he did get to the end and felt the accomplishment.
We’ve read one other book in the series and will likely return to it, given the chance.
Apparently a classic from over 50 years ago, Neo likes the action and story told by Hoff in this series debut.
My husband brought Danny and the Dinosaur home from the library today.
He immediately sat down and my daughter climbed in his lap.
I listened as he read and looked at the pictures over his shoulder.
My daughter sat for about half the book and stood to look at the pictures for most of the rest.
I enjoyed listening in and my husband said “It’s cute.” I liked the bright pictures.
I liked the fun that Danny and the children have with the dinosaur.
I think my daughter really likes the pictures in this one.
As a family, we all enjoyed this one!
I know my six-year-old self would have LOVED it if a dinosaur befriended me at the museum, gave me a ride around town, and played hide-and-seek with me and my friends!
I also appreciate Danny's sensitivity when he realizes that the dinosaur really can't play hide-and-seek the right way so he and his friends adjust their game to help the dinosaur feel welcome and "win." Of course, there is a bit of old-fashionedness to the story and illustrations (including the completely un-PC second page where Danny enters the museum and sees "Indians and bears and Eskimos"!) but I think the fun and friendship of the story would carry it through to today's kids.
"Danny and the Dinosaur" is a New York Times Outstanding Book of the Year Award by Syd Hoff and it is about how a young boy named Danny starts playing with a friendly dinosaur who has come to life when in a museum that Danny goes to.
"Danny and the Dinosaur" is a true masterpiece for many children who love books about dinosaurs!Syd Hoff has done an outstanding job at both illustrating and writing this book.
Syd Hoff makes this story extremely cute and heartwarming at the same time as Danny learns about the true meaning of friendship when he spends much of his day with the dinosaur and enjoys his time spent with the dinosaur.
It's a simple book for kids who are learning to read.
And they have fun little adventures in some nondescript American city.But it's not the fifties anymore, and I am a jaded bastard who likes his kids books on the salty (or maybe just interesting) side.
Every once in a while I get a craving for Dr. Pepper despite that coating, and the same thing happens with Danny and the Dinosaur.
Lately, though, my little Scoutie's developing a taste for Danny and the Dinosaur, so the book is overstaying its welcome, and the after taste is making me gag.
I hope that I read it when I was 5 or 6 or 7; I would have absolutely loved it.It’s a very cute story, very 1958, but I think today’s young readers will enjoy it too.
The text is good for early readers, and younger children will enjoy having this read to them.Most kids like dinosaurs and the dinosaur here is adorable.
He’s endearing, friendly, helpful, and he uses correct grammar too.
He’s funny too, if you get the jokes.The illustrations are really great; they’re a lot of fun.
I read this for July’s Children's Books group Picture Books Club.
The book features Danny, a young boy whose day in the museum gets much better when he meets a real Dinosaur.
The two spend the day together, heading downtown, to the zoo, and finally spending some time playing with Danny’s neighborhood friends.I remember enjoying this book as a kid, and it holds up well today.
While there is really nothing in the way of plot, the pictures and words, sometimes more captions to the pictures than anything else, tell of a delightful day together for these two new friends.
One of my 'dino-favorites' that I can remember reading a boy...great way to start summer!
My husband had a copy of Danny and the Dinosaur by Syd Hoff as a child.
On our last night of a recent visit, I read the book to Sean and Harriet.
What I didn't realize, was that it's one of my son's favorite "I Can Read Books."Danny goes to the library and sees a dinosaur on display.
The end of the book centers on him and Danny playing with neighborhood children.
A game of hide and seek is rather one-sided but the children eventually find a way to make it work.It's a cute book.
Danny visits the museum and when he gets to the dinosaur display a real dinosaur pops out and asks Danny to play with him.
So off they go through the town having lots of fun ending up playing hide 'n' seek with the neighbourhood children but as sunset comes along everyone must go home including the dinosaur who must get back to the museum.
Some of the PC persuasion may find the display of the "Indian" and "Eskimo" offensive, but the rest of us will enjoy a good old-fashioned timeless classic.
The new reprints have been recolourized with dark full-colour illustrations rather than the light pencil crayon effect of the originals.
Childhood favorite. Who doesn't want a dinosaur friend?
He's a dino fanatic, and the only thing better than touring the museum's dinosaur hall would be if one of the behemoths came to life and could play with him.
Danny and his dino peek in on a professional baseball game, ferry across a canal, and spend time at the zoo, where a live dinosaur is a cinch to trump any animal exhibit.
Not every boy is so blessed as to spend a day with a real live dinosaur.
Stepping smoothly into Danny's life as if nothing could be more natural, the dinosaur's majestic presence is perhaps taken for granted by the boy and his friends.
Kid has a dinosaur.
I like that when Danny gets the dinosaur, he chooses to ride it around town, much like you might if you'd just acquired, say, a new moped.
Sure, you could alert the media and become a overnight sensation and a historical footnote, or somehow contain the dinosaur and make a handsome living charging admission.
But why put yourself (and the dinosaur, for that matter) through all that when you could simply hop on and take him out for a spin, leaving a sprightly trail of charmingly illustrated mayhem in your wake, and no doubt all but depleting the town's already meager budget.
This dinosaur is really nice and wants to be Danny’s friend.
The dinosaur takes Danny for a ride on his back.
When they went to the zoo the dinosaur was asked to leave because he was taking the attention away from the animals.
At the end of the day the dinosaur says he has to go back to the museum.
The pictures look like they are colored in with crayon.
Hoff does not use many colors in the book.
Children love the idea of having a talking dinosaur or animal and this book gives them hope that it could actually happen.
This is definitely one of my favorite childhood books for who wouldn't love the fact of checking out a museum and then getting to spend a whole day playing with a very friendly dinosaur.
And as if that isn't a whole sundae in itself the dinosaur can actually talk back to you while is very willing to be of service to people who would just gape or deface it in the museum anyway.
There is a bit of a rhythm to the telling of the story that will hold the reader's interest as Danny and his dinosaur go through a whole day of fun.
I read this to my 8 week old daughter and she loved it...
Well, she didn't hate it anyway ;) I vaguely remember reading this in elementary school and I would recommend every child reads it at least once.
Any young child can relate to the activities in the story line and the dialogue is quite easy to follow (don't forget to add your own exclamation points!).
There really isn't any diversity in the story, which is typical for many stories written in the 1950s.
Furthermore, the story isn't really educational.
This aside, it is a great story and can be considered a "comfort" read for any young (or even older) child.
This book was kind of a mix between a picture book and a transitional book.
It had a good mix of words and pictures, but probably too long and too many words to just be considered a picture book; at the same time, it was a way easier read than something like Junie B.
Jones so it probably wasn't fully transitional either.
It's another one of those books that takes your mind away to another place and really gets your imagination going.
And when I was a kid, I LOVED dinosaurs, so the idea of a dinosaur coming to life and getting to spend the day with him seemed really cool to me.
I loved this book as a kid and was pleased to find it at a rummage sale recently. I had to buy this for my 4 year old song. I love reading it to him. I love how much he enjoys the magic of the book. He makes me read it to him as if the dinosaur is female, which is interesting to figure out what in his head determined that the male dinosaur in the book was actually a female in his head. What a magical and fun book.
One day Danny goes to the museum. He likes the dinosaurs best and wishes that he could have one of his own. And in all good books, Danny gets his wish and gets to spend a day with a dinosaur. They play games and eat together. But at the end of the day the dinosaur needs to go back where he is needed and Danny is left to go home, but knowing that he doesn't have room for a dinosaur.Great for early readers who are ready for short sentences and short chapters.
Pretty much any book my reluctant reader can read aloud and wants to read aloud gets an automatic four stars from me. It doesn't hold up as well to repeat readings as, say, Frog and Toad, but it's still tolerable. It's a cute story of friendship, and one I recall fondly from my own childhood. Do they any longer make quality children's books that are easy for a first or second grader to read? Every one I've found that fits both criteria was written prior to 1970.
Danny spends the day with a dinosaur, doing all the fun sort of things he'd do with the rest of his friends (i.e. playing hide and seek, etc).This is a cute, comical, story with a sweet ending, but there really isn't *that* much to the plot. I'd probably give this three stars, except that I remember enjoying it when I was little and for whatever reason (the story, the illustrations, or both) it made an impression on me. So, for that I gave it an extra star.
Papa: So...Miloš: I really liked that they had fun together, and not did not have fun. Papa: Okay, what else?Miloš: Actually, that was it. Okay, Pa. Papa: Okay. (But I would like to mention that this book is 64 pages long and contains the first page Miloš has ever read without pictures. The boy is a reading fiend).
Danny visits the museum where he discovers his favorite creature of all, dinosaurs. To Danny’s surprise, one of the dinosaurs comes to life. Follow Danny and the dinosaur as they spend the day together exploring the city, eating ice cream and playing hide and seek with Danny’s friends. I like this simple and charming tale because it really plays towards a child's imagination.
This book shows the friendship of a boy and his dinosaur. It shows all the different things dinosaurs could do with humans if they were around today, that is if they were tamed. This book could also be used in the first grade class, and is easy enough for students who struggle with reading as well as student who don't.
For pre-k children, this is a good book. Young boys love to dinosaurs and this book is great for young dinosaur lovers. The children will enjoy the Danny’s clowning around on his adventure. I would use this book in my pre-k classroom for dinosaur lovers.
what kid wouldn't love a story about a kid who gets to hang with a talking dino? Okay, the Possum didn't care for it, but the PandaBat did. Syd Hoff loved playing baseball, it turns out, which explains why baseball is featured in all his books that I have.
This is a wonderful story for any child that loves dinosaurs. Danny finds a dinosaur in a museum that comes alive. He goes on all kinds of adventures with his new playmate. In the end then dinosaur has to go home. Danny is okay with that since his new friend is too big to stay in his house.
One of my favorites that I would read to my own children. I love this book, and the wonderful drawings that show Danny doing things with a dinosaur who befriends him at the museum. I could read this book with my kids, and never get tired of it. A must have for any classroom.
I forgot all about this one. I remember reading it when I was little. It's a real classic!
An absolute treasure adored for generations. I enjoyed it when it was read to me. My older children enjoyed it when it was read to them and now my youngest is enjoying it also.
