https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123390.The_Pursuit_of_Man
"Are you sure you want to be filled with a Spirit who, though He is like Jesus in His gentleness and love, will nevertheless demand to be Lord of your life?
He may strip you of many of those borderline pleasures which other Christians enjoy but which are to you a source of refined evil..." (123).Being so immersed in the world of espresso, I have been wrecked to inferior coffee.
That is the way it is with the Spirit, says Tozer, He wrecks us.
Felt like the scattered musings of an insightful theologian. It should have been much better, had the author taken the time to revise, add, and rewrite.I should give this three stars, because there are some good truths here. But it's mostly a forgetful book. Nothing struck me. While the main focus seemed to be on the Holy Spirit (I think?), it wanders in several directions over the course of 150 pages. I wanted more focus and conclusions.I received a free copy of this book while at Book Expo America in New York City in summer 2017.
So He conquers us and by that benign conquest saves us for Himself.A man can die of starvation knowing all about bread, and a man can remain spiritually dead while knowing all the historic facts of Christianity.The doctrine of the inability of the human mind and the need for divine illumination is so fully developed in the New Testament that it is nothing short of astonishing that we should have gone so far astray from the whole thing.For a man to understand revealed truth requires an act of God equal to the original act which inspired the text.Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.
But the thing Tozer does that endears him to me, even in those moments when I disagree with some bit of application, is this: he always speaks in a way that convinces me that he is only interested in the depths of the Christian walk and knowledge of God. Though he "preaches" it is never "preachy" because it is always rooted and grounded in both his and the reader's ultimate joy.This book, "The Pursuit of Man" is no different.In the opening chapters he makes reference to some mechanics of knowing God and how we can know Him and why we should know Him."The man who would know God must give time to Him."He moves into a classic Tozer segment that appears in all of his books at some point and in some way where he deals with the importance of separation from the world.
The old cross brought tears and blood, the new cross brings laughter.The last half of the book is focused on the Holy Spirit.
More of a 4.5 but 5 will work. Its interesting, substance filled, and despite minor flaws, is definitely beneficial for all seeking a good read
Tozer's holy zeal is for nothing more than for the believer to have an experience with the living God, and not be content with the average.
His one aim is to "know Him in the power of His resurrection and in the fellowship of His sufferings." Tozer writes about "the Adamic ego." ...whether it refers to this as "the flesh," or the "old man," the fact remains that there MUST be a death if we are to ever become what God ordained us to be.Tozer writes more about the absolute need for separation from the world and warns about the different view which we have about the world.
His classics “The Pursuit of God” and ” The Knowledge of the Holy” are two of the most important Christian books that we possess today–Something like a 12 on a scale of 1-10.
The second half of the book he moves on to the Third Person of the Trinity–the Holy Spirit.
I heard echoes of his theological masterpiece, “The Knowledge of the Holy.” Actually, this book is intended to fill in some of the gaps, as well as be a counterpart to “The Pursuit of God.”I can’t really think of a downside to the book and was personally moved by it.
Por exemplo, ao falar sobre a santidade do Espírito Santo, Tozer enfatiza que precisamos nos purificar e sermos santos para receber o poder divino e termos uma vida cheia do Espírito.
Porém, a Escritura nos adverte, e a nossa experiência tristemente nos recorda, que não podemos viver uma vida santa e pura sem que antes o Espírito Santo se apodere de nós.
Em alguns trechos Tozer enfatiza a soberania de Deus, e condena a forma como muitos têm tratado o Santo, em especial na forma “moderna” de se fazer evangelismo.
Another great book on the role of the Holy Spirit in the life of the believer by Tozer.
Now this book is published under the title The Pursuit of Man, but both titles capture the essence of this book: The Holy Spirit pursues the souls and lives of people to conquer them for God.Over the last few years, I have heard or read the statement that there are few good books on the Holy Spirit.
If so, this is one of those good ones.
This book didn't have the same momentum that The Tozer Pulpit vol.
It read a bit slower.
I would highly recommend this book to any honest seeker of God. Unfortunately, the book is explicitly addressed to American evangelical fundamentalists, so while the message is timeless and universal the content must be understood through the lens of the author.Overall, the book is well written and the Spirit of God pours out of the words.
It is obvious that the author is not writing from a merely intellectual and academic position, but rather he is putting down truths that have been searched out and lived out in a real life.
I found that each chapter left me with a burning desire in my heart to seek God and to know God.
This is a profound prequel to Tozer's classic "The Pursuit of God." Tozer is unabashedly honest about his views that Christianity is not a mere 'religion', and pens a number of very insightful chapters on the Holy Spirit.
Another great book by Tozer.
As are all Tozer's books, a MUST READ for every Christian
And though I had not requested this book, and though I stand in a very different point of view with regards to the nature of God and especially of the Holy Spirit than the author does [2], there is still much to appreciate in this book.
This book primarily deals with two subjects, namely the decisive role of God in conversion as well as the power and role of the Holy Spirit, and in both cases the author has a lot to say that will be a subject of controversy and contention in the present world.Overall, this book is a short volume of about 140 pages or so divided into ten chapters.
Tozer has a power about him when you read his words.
He then made this statement: "Don't miss the pith because you are engrossed in the study of the bark." I love the truth there!The first four chapters were my favorite.
With God, Abram's day and this day are the same."
Another great read by A.
In this book he tackles the issues man has with giving his all to God. A great companion to The Pursuit of God I remember reading this book soon after the former and falling in love with it.
Easy five star book.DISCLAIMER: In accordance with the Federal Trade Commission’s 16 CFR, Part 255: “Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising” we would like to note that we received a hard copy of “God's Pursuit of Man”  provided by the publishers, Moody, in exchange for our honest review.
Tozer packs biblical theology, profound philosophy and personal passion for God into some of the most dense sentences and paragraphs I have ever read. I always feel encouraged and deeply challenged when I read his work, but I also feel like I have only scratched the surface. I recommend this work to anyone who wants to deepen their relationship with God and are willing to work to get there.
Another one of Tozer's books that need to be reread often, along with The Pursuit of God and The Knowledge of the Holy. I do this on audio and it is only about three hours long, but it is full of such spiritual truth that by the time it is finished my whole focus has shifted back to Christ and off myself.
It is hard not to like A.W. Tozer's writing.
He routinely challenges one to believe better and experience more of God. I read this almost seventy years after he wrote it.
Some of his viewpoints and understanding of scriptural passages seem time-bound to me.
After seventy years, it is hard to figure out what exactly the issues are and whether they are issues with friends or foes.
This would be better if it were not so polemical.He did force me to think more deeply about the Holy Spirit and figure out what the scriptures had to say.
God’s PursuitWow. I learned a great deal about The Holy Spirit. He is a well versed, passionate Christ centered author. He really paints a clear picture of what a Spirit filled person does or does not look like.
This is the best book I’ve read in 2018, and one of the best on the topic of the Holy Spirit. Quite dense in typical Tozer fashion, but SO full of truth
Don't read this book unless you are genuinely open to having your life and faith challenged. A lot.
Short and worth revisiting. Much of it centers on the work of the Holy Spirit in saving us.
In my own desire to experience the Holy SpiritI found one of Tozer's books on Weber Books.com.
It is a website that offers free and deeply discounted kindle books.
I don't believe in coincidence.
I was sleepless in the wee hours of the morning, feeling bodily pain from working injuries though I have been retired 11 years.
My spirits were low, and I was slowly sinking into frozen depression, made worse by my self awareness of psychology and a deep faith in the Holy Trinity.
This book was a loving gift from the Great Comforter.
I'm sharing it now with you.
Here is a good summary of the purpose of the book from page 24:"The churches (even the gospel churches) our worldly in spirit, morally anemic, on the defensive, imitating instead of initiating and in a wretched state generally because for two full generations they have been told that justification is no more than a "not guilty" verdict pronounced by the heavenly father upon a sinner who can present the magic coin faith with the wondrous open-sesame engraved on it."Tozer speaks very harshly in this book against the nominal Christian that is not experiencing the fullness of life in the spirit.
"The Lord cannot fully bless a man until He has first conquered him."..."it was only after he had gone down to humiliating defeat that he began to feel the joy of release from his own evil strength, the delight of God's conquest over him." The book explains what is a part of every Christian's journey: God's pursuit of us till we ultimately surrender everything to him - including those things we hold onto the most.
In His loving kindness he does this so we will put nothing else before Him. I highly recommend this book and The Pursuit of God by Tozer.
After reading A.W. Tozer's "The Pursuit of God" I was completely blown away.
Unfortunately, "God's Pursuit of Man" (which is to be a prequel of sorts) was a disappointment.To be sure, it had its moments when it really captured my attention.
I am no Calvinist (nor Armenian), but there seemed to be too much emphasis on the individual's decision to gain the Holy Spirit.If you are looking for multiple resources to study the Holy Spirit, I absolutely recommend this book.
My only reservation is to say to not take every word in this book to heart.
A.W. Tozer is one solid, old school dude.
I wish he was still around.
It reminded me about the necessity of being empowered by the Holy Spirit.
It challenged me to seek the Spirit more consciously and fervently, and to not be afraid of suffering or pain that may (should) come from doing so.
The Scriptures and Tozer's insights convicted me of my "self-sins" (self-righteousness, self-confidence, self-seeking, etc) and encouraged me to live by the Spirit.
Tozer's words about the church, written over 50 years ago, seem like a critique that could've been written just yesterday!
"The worst thing a book can do for a Christian is to leave him with the impression that he has received from it anything really good; the best it can do is to point the way to the Good he is seeking.
The function of a good book is to stand like a signpost directing the reader toward the Truth and Life.
The work of a good book is to incite the reader to moral action, to turn his eyes toward God and urge him forward.
Beyond that it cannot go."...this book does just that.
It stands like a signpost and points to the Truth and Life.
For example: "I want here boldly to assert that it is my happy belief that every Christian can have a copious outpouring of the Holy Spirit in a measure far beyond that received at conversion, and I might also say, far beyond that enjoyed by the rank and file of the orthodox believers today...
The Spirit in-dwelt life is not a special deluxe edition of Christianity to be enjoyed by a certain rare and privileged few who happen to be made of finer and more sensitive stuff than the rest.
