https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311165.Cotillion
I love, love, love, Freddy!!!
Freddy isn't your average GH hero, he is a pink, NOT a rake, NOT a nonsuch and certainly NOT 'in the petticoat line'.
His cousin Jack (Who IS a rake, IS a nonsuch and is VERY much in the petticoat line) thinks he's amusing in the way that you might find a kitten or puppy amusing.
Because the thing about Freddy is that he tries REALLY hard and make's things work out right.
A nonsuch would have known he was going to win, and therefore his willingness would not be as brave.
I was new to Georgette Heyer at the time, and also my expectations had been set by Devil's Cub, probably one of Heyer's more romantic books, what with the hot (and hot-tempered) hero chasing the reluctant heroine all over creation (be still, my heart).
*Note: Some spoilers follow, although I've tagged most of them*In Cotillion the romance is definitely more low-key, the handsome rake that the heroine has been angling for (view spoiler)[turns out to be pretty much just a cad and a jerk and a cheater besides (hide spoiler)], and the hero is a beta character of middling good looks and average intelligence, excessively fond of appearing in the pink of fashion, who turns out to have unforeseen depths of character.
5. Last but not least, Freddy Standen, who is on his way to Arnside, but has no idea of the trouble looming ahead of him.At present, Kitty's opinion of them all is Kitty Charing is a charming young lady with a kind heart and warm, open and unaffected manners.
), the reader is easily won over by her simple kindness and desire to help others.Appalled by her uncle's heartless ultimatum, Kitty heedlessly flees Arnside and finds refuge in a nearby inn, where she happens to meet up with Freddy Standen, who was just on his way to Arnside.
Heyer must have been in a playful mood when writing Cotillion, as she does surprising things in this novel: mercilessly sending up the superficial nature of high society including its discreet but constant focus on money; putting romance to the side while instead providing a generous number of comic scenes based around shopping, couture and the appropriate colors that should be worn by certain complexions, describing an unpleasant dinner party followed by a trashy masquerade, and the visiting of many so-called attractions of London; spoofing the very idea of how a proper marriage proposal should be conducted; making unseemly jokes about red light districts and honey traps; and best of all, confounding reader expectations around gender roles and what sorts of traits romantic leads should embody.
Warning there may be spoilers for   in this review.I find it hard to say which is my favourite Heyer Regency. When I read Arabella that is my favourite,but when I read Cotillion that is my favourite.& I have only just reread Cotillion for the umpteenth time, but maybe Cotillion is my true, absolute love.The point both books have in common are the heroine. Both are pretty brunettes with kind hearts & no real money of their own. Society's rules are less important to them than a social cons
When I read Arabella that is my favourite,but when I read Cotillion that is my favourite.& I have only just reread Cotillion for the umpteenth time, but maybe Cotillion is my true, absolute love.The point both books have in common are the heroine.
Society's rules are less important to them than a social conscience (Arabella) and helping friends or family (Kitty) The books main difference is the hero.
Robert from Arabella is a true Regency hero - dashing, handsome, witty & autocratic.
In Cotillion (view spoiler)[ on first reading I expect Jack to be the hero - he is Robert without money &, as it turns out, without a heart.
(hide spoiler)]A Cinderella story with heart.Edit: Still my favourite GH Regency.
But as soon as Cousin Freddy comes on the scene, the book takes a most pleasant, comedic turn!
(view spoiler)[ During her stay, she has ample time to compare the selfish ways of her "dream" hero, Jack, with the very generous and honest ways of the real hero, Freddy.
(view spoiler)[I loved the unexpected hero of the story, Freddy, and his relationship to his very normal family.
Freddy could very well be out there--realistic and dreamy at the same time--and as Kitty says:“Who needs a knight to slay dragons when you really need to be rescued from a social fix?”They each grow up as the story unfolds and they learn about what they really want and what is really important.
That's what it says on the cover and that's what you will find between the covers of this delightful comedy of manners from the pen of Georgette Heyer, whose accomplishments in the recreations of the customs, fashions and linguistic peculiarities of the period have come to define the whole genre of Regency Romance.
While the historic periods are clearly different, the comparison is underlined by the setting of the story among the higher echelons of the British society (the Ton as the Regency bucks liked to define it) and by the pursuit of love as the prime engine of the plot.
What makes Cotillion unique is that Heyer presents us with a hero who normally doesn't make the cut in her romances.
You fans know the secondary character I'm referring to: he's usually the hero's good friend and/or side kick.
He's somewhat daft and young, and is usually there to make funny comments and egg on the main hero.
Freddy makes the book, and it wouldn't be the favorite of so many Heyer's fans without him being the person he is.An enjoyable read.
Not my personal favorite, true, but good stuff.
This is one of Heyer's best books featuring one of her very best characters, that of Freddie Standen. Such an adorable man and just the perfect match for Kittie once she comes around to realising it. So many great characters in this book! I loved Freddie's father and his sister, Meg and Dolph was also great fun. There is just something about a good Georgette Heyer book. They are light, funny, entertaining and oh so smart. And they are wearing the test of time. Still so good after so many years:)
Cotillion quickly moved to the top of my favorite Heyer books. It's so frustrating to see her lumped into the general romance novel section as she's so much more than that and I'm afraid that a lot of people who are snooty about reading "romance" novels are missing out on a marvelous author. Time Magazine put it best, "With a Georgette Heyer you don’t buy a book, you buy a world. If it suits you, you settle down forever."
This was me finishing my first Heyer novel.
Yeah, yeah, yeah...
Kitty is the duckling ready to assume her swan plumage, and does she ever in this escape from Cranky Manor where her guardian has kept her in the severest of conditions.
Needless to say, as soon as the opportunity presents itself, Kitty is on the first coach out of there.
It's the Ton, it's topsy-turvy, and there's love swaps all around until things finally settle into a most satisfactory conclusion.
From the onset he was charming, loyal, and conscientious enough keeping his eye on things, but not a wet blanket.
I believe that this book is the definition of the word "romp." It's all a farce, hardly any romance in it at all except the silly kind Heyer makes fun of (despite the fact that the story is almost all tangled marriage plots- they just involve such ridiculous people who by and large are not in love with each other, so there's absolutely no romance at all.).
In a good way.I think one of my favorite things about the book is that it takes a character who would normally be an amusing sidekick and makes him the hero.
dandy.a lesser heyer, in my view—and yet still possessed of a number of sparklingly funny passages and two very clever subversions of traditional regency romance plot devices.i found the subtle tension between high ton propriety and compassionate but naive ideology fascinating.
our country innocent of a heroine dismissed the unsavory reputation one must expect to find oneself with if one chooses to associate with vulgar but friendly people who laugh a lot.
but when this kindhearted inclination was actually put to the test at a scandalous masquerade, she finds her presupposition of affinity quite rudely disabused, and decides that no, actually, one really shouldn't associate with common folk after all, because their coarse manners are ever so distressing.doesn't signify, though.
I must have read it early in my Heyer days, because I'm pretty sure I didn't understand the main characters, Freddy and Kitty, very well.
Freddy, in particular, undergoes more character development than is common in Heyer's heroes and is easy to write-off in the early parts of the novel as empty-headed.
This is a reversal of the many Heyer novels where the heroine's character develops appreciably and the hero merely learns to appreciate her stellar qualities.Catching the early hints that Freddy has much more depth than seemed at first possible made all the difference in my enjoyment of this book.
I absolutely adored this book - Heyer's writing is, as always, not only perfectly in period but sublime, the humour subtle and the romance so carefully handled that each moment when it is moved along a little more seems perfect.
Kitty is fun, but my real love in this book is Freddie, the male lead, who is so wonderful and real.
This is probably my favourite Heyer novel of those that I've read, and I understand I am not alone in that opinion.
This is something anyone who enjoys a good romance should read.
The romantic hero is a foppish but steadily inoffensive guy, someone your parents love after the first 30 minutes (though in those first 30 minutes they raise an eyebrow at his "voluminous driving-coat, embellished with several shoulder-capes"), the heroine is naive but full of good sense, and all of this is backed up by a great cast of supporting characters and a hefty dose of scorn for Irish titles.
What Heyer is really good at is depicting regency society without going off the rails, as so many contemporary writers do.
One of the top three Georgette Heyer -- and that's saying something. She's always deft with her handling of the handsome hero and pretty but destitute heroine plot, but Cotillion goes beyond the ordinary with lovely side characters and issues which all go to further the reality she's taking Kitty -- and us -- into. None of the "extraneous" characters are; they are there with great intent to show all of us what kind of man Freddy is. And I for one say, "I like him. I like him better than Hugh. I like him better than Jack..."
Just lovely! Highly recommended for teen girls and young adults looking for a fun read with some substance. As well as being an entirely pleasant story, it is altogether worthwhile to witness Heyer's characters grow through their interactions with one another. With such a light touch she educates the reader in how to fall out of love with the reckless anti-hero after recognising his sordid, selfish side, and how to fall in love with the generous, gentle and kind-hearted hero. Few writers are ab

It's a great tenth regency, particularly for people, like me, who really dislike the ones where the heroine falls for the handsome rake who she tames generally by letting him do appalling things to her.
It is also a book about people who are not the prettiest, and not the most brilliant, and who are actually quite silly, but sweet and happy and hilarious together.
And that's why I liked it, beyond the quiet meta work it did inverting all the romance novel clichés.
Ovo je bezbrižno i veselo i totalno nepretenciozno i neproblematično. I glavni junak/mladi ljubavnik je dendi koji nema veze ni sa mračnim tajnama ni sa junačkim podvizima nego živi za modu ("kako vezati kravatu na sto načina") i stekla sam jaaak utisak da je glavni uzrok junakinjine privlačnosti za njega to što će moći da joj nabavlja garderobu do mile volje. (I obratno.) Ništa otkrovenja uz oluju i grmljavinu, ništa razorna strast i cepanje steznika (našto kvariti prvorazredne steznike, pitam ja vas).
I dare say Freddy might not be a great hand at slaying dragons, but you may depend upon it none of those knight-errants would be able to rescue one from a social fix, and you must own, Meg, that one has not the smallest need of a man who can kill dragons!"In the end, it isn't the dragon-slaying men of elegance and charm who win Kitty, but her sensible and none-to-clever cousin.
But of course, Freddy wasn't the only character who made this book.
Comparing her to the other two Heyer books I've read (Arabella and The Grand Sophy), Kitty was more like Arabella then Sophy.
Only when considering my other re-reads does it become clear again that this Jack is not that extraordinary, that Heyer always rooted for the down-to-Earth protagonists - even if they seem to behave more outragously than the rest.
But Jack really is the most convincing conventional hero, the scoundrel that in all romances written today would up to the last chapter still be in the running, evil schemes be dammed - he has laughing eyes!Of course I always fenced slender figures like Freddy, but I'll never recapture the magic again, that's the bitterest pill, what I had read out of these stories is as lost to me as my dreams.
This is my favourite of all Georgette Heyer's novels and I have reread it at least once a year after the first time I read it back in 2012. The unconvensional (and quite unexpected) hero, but you can't help but to love him too. And the sweetest and the kindest couple ever, in my opinion.Now that GR has had the reread function, I just wonder, how many times a year will I reread this haha.Really really love this!
This is a treasure, and was such a pleasure to read!
Kitty is a naive, caring country girl who convinces mild-mannered Clark Kent - oops, I mean Freddy to engage in a fake betrothal with her so she can escape her miserly adopted uncle and enjoy some time in London.
Kitty is a very likeable but impulsive heroine who creates plenty of opportunities for Freddy to come to her rescue, which he does repeatedly.I absolutely loved Freddy!
But no one ever needed his help before, and Freddy ends up proving his worth in charming ways - always for Kitty.
Miserly Great-Uncle Matthew is both frightful and frightfully rich.
Though he has a surfeit of great-nephews, he has no heir.
provided she marries one of the great-nephews.
Everyone knows our heroine Kitty has been infatuated with rakish “Cousin Jack” since childhood, yet when Great Uncle Matthew summons all the great-nephews to his house so they can try their luck proposing to Kitty, Jack doesn’t show up.
It’s as though she transported a group of relatives, many of whom openly loathe each other, from a 1930’s country house murder back to 1816 and left out the murder (although you’ll be able to offer some suggestions).
I loved Cotillion so much.
I should've turned my attention to finishing it earlier -- it's wonderful.
A typically complicated plot of ridiculous characters doing ridiculous things, and even though I didn't see the romance at the beginning -- and there was a lot of very practical arrangements going on -- I came to love it and squeal happily at it at the end.I loved that Freddy seems at first a bit ridiculous himself, and maybe stupid, but he turns out to be perfectly suited to the society he lives in, perfectly capable of getting Kitty out of any scrapes she gets into, and of orchestrating everyone's happy endings.
Lovely.
A bit of a slow, uneven start to it, but once Heyer introduces everyone and sets the chaos dial to 11, it hits its stride with hilarious results. It's the most fun I've had reading in a good long while.
Whenever I feel low, I read Cotillion. It never fails to cheer me up. It's funny and sweet, and my favourite Heyer.
It was fantastic: funny, clever, bright, great dialogue, sympathetic characters, charming romance, well-balanced plot, easy to read.
The heroine is (typically for Heyer) impulsive and a bit strong-minded and clueless at the same time, but somehow manages to be wholy charming instead of obnoxious.
The side plot twists, which the hero and heroine tie up very neatly on their way, are hilarious.This would be a great novel to recommend to anyone who hasn't tried Heyer yet.
I wish I had my own copy so I could read it about fifty more times.
Kitty is a young and innocent Cinderella figure who suddenly has money - and a fake engagement to amiable Freddy who takes her to London for the first time.
There's a madcap plot surrounding our young couple - and even that grated: I wanted sweet-but-dim Dolph to find a woman who loved him for himself not someone who openly declares she doesn't love him but will look after him like a nanny...I can admire the way Heyer subverts romance traditions here, making the cute minor figures from other plots take centre stage - but I'll take her witty rakes with a fine line in banter and an acute sense of humour over Freddy any day!
