https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61975.Dragonflight
It's a mishmash of several genres that worked surprisingly well.From the other reviews of the book I've read, the main complaints about the book seems to be the fact that the leading male character is kind of an asshole, of the Jericho-fucking-Barrons sort.
I'm not using that as an excuse, I'm just saying that his character was not over the top, and he is not an asshole for the sake of being an asshole, unlike Jericho-fucking-Barrons.Keep in mind also that this book was published a long time ago (1968!).
On the other hand, nothing interesting happens in the book anyway, so might as well save yourself the trouble of reading the actual book.
Dragon People  We are Dragonmen!
We will protect you from the evil threads!Evil Threads:People of Pern: Sod off, there's no such thing.Lessa: Aha!
Oh I love my dragon, her eyes are so beautiful, I want to get lost in themDragon: Lessa : I hate F'lar!
F'lar : I'm having sex with Lessa and she is the Weyrwoman, yet I will continue to call her "girl" because I'm from the stone age.Time Travel is discovered.
The Evil Threads Exist!Evil Threads:Dragons:F'lar: Ahahah!
My thoughts were, if this was my daughter as the heroine, then the only thing to be done would "bag and tag" that F'lar a**hole cause I would have invented the .45 cal and then blown his head off with it.
I don't get why this was important to the storyline, gee abuse the girl long enough and she'll fall for you in the end.
Toward the end, there were parts where somebody "roared" with laughter, but I never saw anything remotely funny to cause it.I was really looking forward to a long and interesting series but not here.
In the author’s defence, she wrote this book in a time when only Tolkien had had the vision and ambition to take a fantasy world to marvellous complexity, and long before the intricacy and skills of the likes of Jordan, Martin, Erikson and Sanderson surfaced to take up the mantle.
But personally, this is fantasy on a level which I would not recommend to anyone, and I would much rather suggest the heavily criticised Inheritance Cycle (which was partly inspired by this series, but in my eyes is far less overrated).In the end, there was nothing to inspire or excite me in Dragonflight, and not even anything to connect with.
I was surprised to find that the first book in the Dragonriders of Pern series actually does have a good story, with interesting characters and an excellent invented world.
The (lack of) copyediting makes me cry, and the writing is something you just have to suffer through, but the idea is really inventive, and I can totally understand how I got so sucked into her books as a kid.
I wouldn't exactly recommend that you run out and check her books out, but if you liked them back in the day, revisiting them isn't as painful as you might have thought it would be.
I thought the world building was extremely good and I liked the idea of the threads (some kind of weird fungal growth) periodically falling on the planet and threatening to destroy it.
The idea of the Dragonriders being chosen by their baby dragons, probably while they are still in their eggs has certainly been copied a few times.
Lessa annoyed me a few times by leaping to conclusions and acting without thought but of course the consequences did further the story.Really I am giving it five stars because while I was reading it I was practically living inside the book!
I had this in mind as I began reading Anne McCaffrey's Dragonflight, and for two thirds of the book I thought it was a perfect descriptor of what I was seeing.
After all, we like getting to know characters in the books we read, and we seem to prefer saving our breathless action driven stories for the big screen.
You are "Anne McCaffrey," best selling author, and you must know what you're doing, so do what you want.Perhaps then, Dragonflight is a product of the necessities of a first novel rather than an example of the author not being polished in her writing skills.All this aside, I appreciated the quickness of the tale.
Too late, we find out that failing to maintain and believe in tradition has weakened the people of Pern and there are dire consequences when the Threads return.I’ve seen a lot of criticism here that the book lacks character development and/or that the main romantic relationship is sexist and abusive etc.
However, I think the romantic relationship between F’lar and Lessa, while dated, is not outright abusive.
The relationship fits the setting and works for the novel.
The highlight of this book for me is the amazing relationship between a rider and his/her dragon.
This was an entertaining book and I enjoyed most of it at a three star level.
However, the romance drove me absolutely insane.
I was gritting my teeth and wondering if I could actually count the number of times that F'lar shook Lessa, because we women love being shaken into sensibility, and a bit later I ran across these."Oh, F'lar will be so angry with me.
He will shake me and shake me.
He always shakes me when I disobey him.""He'll shake me," Lessa cried, like a little girl."I told you he'd shake me," Lessa was saying, dashing tears from her face"I don't know what the author's intention was but anyone who shakes me that much is getting brained.
I read this book back in sixth grade and thought it was exciting in the "wow, dragons are so cool; I wish I had one!" sense.
I read it again on a whim and found it unintentionally disturbing.
It's not just that the writing seemed dry and the characterization wooden.
I realize the book was written in the late 60's, but the male-female dynamics still seem uncomfortably dated.
And then, plot aside, she's supposed to "come around" to love him in the end.
I never noticed it when I was younger, but it troubles me now that this is supposed to feel romantic.
I next read All the Weyrs of Pern (thrilling at the brilliant cover art by Michael Whelan) and then started from the beginning, whipping through Dragonflight, Dragonquest, The White Dragon, Moreta, Nerilka's Story and the Harper Hall Trilogy.I recently had the urge to revisit those carefree years of meaningless science fiction I enjoyed, and I picked the first three books up again, only to be shocked at how misogynistic, outdated and just plain badly written they were.
I mean, I knew they were pulpy, guilty-pleasure-type stuff, but to create a strong female character like Lessa (psi powers!
Is an unwilling re-reading of Moreta: Dragonlady of Pern in my future??
10/2014 Buddy Reread: Reliving my preteen years with Don Once relieved of imminent danger, Pern settled into a more comfortable way of life. The descendants of heroes fell into disfavor, as the legends fell into disrepute. Hooray! This book was as good as I remembered. The Pern books had a huge influence on my preadolescent self and I was a little nervous about rereading it and finding out that it wasn't as good. Afraid that it would destroy the related memories I made while reading these storie
The Pern books had a huge influence on my preadolescent self and I was a little nervous about rereading it and finding out that it wasn't as good.
*deep sigh* If one could love a dragon, then this would be The One. Clever, loyal, acerbic wit and practically perfect in every way.
Loved the revenge, Lessa's intrepidness, the mating flight, the harper ballads, and the politics of Pern.
importuned, but there are limits to what a man is willing to do out of loyalty to dragon kind.”
Still a great adventure story and I wish I could find transport to Pern.
However, it feels like an unnecessary info dump, placed there because apparently readers are too stupid to figure stuff out on their own and need to be spoon fed all the important facts.From then on things weren't that bad.
The story is easy to read and I found the mix of Sci Fi/Fantasy really interesting.
I lost count of the times when I said: "That should have gone wrong." It never did.One of the things that bothered me the most was the absence of female characters.
Actually, the absence of females.
What happened to the ones they should have had in the Weyr?
Rather we have dragons with the ability to teleport and certain human blood lines are able to telepathically communicate and "bond" with the dragons.The dragons are bred to combat an invasion of "Threads," a life destroying "entity" or "organism" that travels from Pern's sister planet every two hundred years when the planets are closest in their orbits.The story is set when there has been 400 years of no "Threads" and the dragons have been in decline.
I'll probably read the next book in the series when I need a quick palate cleanser.4 stars
I wish I had picked this up in my younger days, as I'm sure the dragons alone would have captivated my fledgling mind, and I would have soaked it all in.Let's be honest, dragons are awe-inspiring and pretty fucking cool, so that alone should make you want to read this book.But I have to say that as far as characters and plot go, I wasn't particularly impressed.
*** 8/30/18 Kindle Daily Deal $1.99. ***
I love these characters and the story.Lessa is such a strong female protagonist.
Robinton shows up in these books and he is such a great character.
There is not enough dragons to fight thread during the new interval of Threadfall that will continue for 50 years.Lessa attempts a huge feat that will save Pern during the thread pass that is just beginning.
I absolutely love her character and her relationship with her dragon.
I also love the relationship between herself and the Weyr leader F'Lan. She is brave, strong and bold; everything that a Weyr woman should be.
I am now at the books that I truly love though.
I read a few Pern books in my teen, I thought they were readable but at the time I was not all that taken with them.
These tributes reminded that I never really gave Anne McCaffrey's books a fair chance.
The author's meticulous attention to details is awe inspiring.This is also not a fantasy book, not in the sense that Lord of the Rings or The Wheel of Time are.
Anne herself has always been adamant that she is a science fiction author, no disrespect to the wonderful fantasy genre of course, but she deliberately backed the Pern fantasy tropes of dragons and medieval life with science.
And there's nowhere better to start than the beginning.Originally conceived as a couple short stories that went on to win awards McCaffrey pulled 3 short stories together plus a bit of writing between the gaps and Dragonflight was born.
So far the Pern books have continued on for another 22 novels and a couple short story collections.But after reading Dragonflight I just think really?
She started out as a strong, intelligent woman but by the end of the book was treated as a stupid, unthinking girl.
For a book written by the first woman to ever win a major sci-fi/fantasy award she doesn't really treat the female characters that well.
I had made assumptions that since this series was still beloved it would read like a modern tale.
Maybe in 1968 this did feel modern with a strong heroine proving herself in a patriarchal world.
I should have known better since I have seen every episode of Mad Men :) Parts of it read like a movie from the 40s where women were delicate and needed a father figure to guide them and if they were "hysterical" needed a shake or two to bring them to their senses.But "by the first egg" it had dragons galore, which I love!
I was told to read these novels many years ago, and I have no excuse I can say why it has taken so long.
I am ashamed.
Why did I make assumptions?
I suppose I expected overused tropes and kitschy twists, since I knew this was science fiction masquerading as fantasy, not to mention dragons, dragons, dragons...
But I stand corrected.
At least for this first book in a long series, I stand corrected.
I do feel the draw of a very open and wide horizon, a backdrop for many wonders, and I must discover what many have already discovered before me.
As this book was written in 1968, I'm sure everything that could be said, has been said.
I'm just amazed at Anne McCaffrey's skill in crafting such a wonderful book.
It feels as fresh as the day it was written.This is the story of the planet Pern, dragons, dragonryders, and Threads that come from the Red Star every couple of hundred years.No heavy world building here, just the world as is.
I want a dragon of my own, right now!
Love this book and I'll be reading more of Anne McCaffrey's work :)Thanks Rivka for the inspiration ;)
This isn't the edition i read back in the dark ages. These were enjoyable books back then, they still should be. New idea at the time a cross between science fiction and fantasy.
I have to keep in mind when I am doing group reads that I should see if there is a version of the book available for free or for a price that is lower than $9.99.I have never heard of this series before, it seems like a lot of readers have though.
It was the fact that the two main characters were not that likable, things got left out of the book all over the place, but referenced later (which is weird to me) and we have one of the most mind boggling things that go on towards the end of the book for the story to end the way that it does.The book starts off with F'lar and other Dragonmen going off on a "Search".
This is the April pick for the Sword and Laser book club.
This is clearly a book I probably would have connected with more if I'd first read it as a youngling, before I was old and jaded about dragons and romance.
I can see how this book set many things for the dragon-and-rider subgenre, alongside dragonrider-dragonrider romance.
And while I don't expect I'll read any further than book 1 in the series, I suspect there could be consequences to what happened in this book, and many more stories to tell.
Enter the Dragons23 September 2017 I have not only finally managed to get my hands on the first of Anne McCaffery's Pern novels, but have now managed to add it to my list of books that I have read. I remember when I was much younger these books used to be a dime a dozen, but now it is difficult to find at best, despite trawling numerous bookshops. Mind you, even though I visited Waterstones in Picadilly I was still not able to find it, though one of the problems was that the title of the book th
At the start of the story, it has been over four hundred years since the last threadfall, and there is only one dragonhold, otherwise known as a Weyr, left, and the inhabitants of Pern have become somewhat relaxed believing that the thread no longer pose a threat and as such there is no longer any need for the dragonriders.
Maybe I am reading too much into this story, but the threat of nuclear war was ever present at the time, and the destructive nature of the thread (and the fact that it descended, from the sky, from a red planet) simply could not be a coincidence.
Lessa and F'lar, specifically, seem pulled from a YA novel of today.
But Lessa's incessant need to prove herself (and to whom, exactly?
She was chosen) and F'lar's incessant need to...
It can also err on the side of the cheesy:Mother of us all, he was glad that now, of all times conceivable, he, F’lar, rider of bronze Mnementh, was a dragonman of Pern!The best part of the book, in my opinion, is the way McCaffrey deals with time travel.
It's never an easy topic to deal with, but the entire setup comes together perfectly at the end of the tale.
What the hell did I just read? All I can remember is that confusing prologue, breeding project, a girl who kept taking showers, and many, many people with apostrophe in their names. I gave up. My reading time is too precious for this crap. AND RAPES! SO MANY RAPES! Dragons mating led to rapes? Come on!
I don't mind so much when one or two things are solved this way, but in this book it felt like almost everything happened that way and there was not a whole load of reasoning behind why characters did things or how they jumped from one idea to the next.The other MAJOR issue I had was the ABUSIVE relationship.
Just super disappointing for me.Besides those two major problems this was a really easy and fun read at times and I found it being a book I did always want to pick up and read on with.
It hadn't really been on my radar as something I wanted to read.In fact I had this feeling (based partially on discussing it with a friend who just read it for the first time recently) that I wasn't going to like it, so I borrowed it from the library rather than just buying it like I normally would.
If it hadn't been a club pick and so short, I might have considered dropping it all together.Maybe this is a book I would have enjoyed as a kid, but it's hard for me to say.
