https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5966387-john-buchan-volume-1
These are Buchan's three best WW1 titles, featuring the ex-South African mining engineer, turned general in the British army, Richard Hannay. The Thirty-Nine Steps is one of the best suspense novels - none of the film versions comes close. Greenmantle and Mr Standfast are set later in the war, with lots of espionage and derring-do. Mr Standfast also captures the growing war-weariness and grimness of the war of attrition on the Western Front. Politically incorrect certainly, but true to its time.
This fiction series about British patriot Richard Hannay was recommended to me by some of my British counterparts when I was assigned to NATO. It is a wonderful series that captures many of the aspects of the runup to WWI and the execution thereof. Concentrating on the lesser-known aspects of WWI such as espionage and the Middle East, this series is a good, fun read that will also provide you with some context of why this was a World War, not just a series of bloodbaths on the Western Front.
Having read these books only last year awakened in me a sense of appreciation for the World War I period.
The plots are heroic, engaging the reader with excitement and suspense.
The integrity and determination of the British and American protagonists makes one admire the gumption and stamina of an earlier era.
These books are terrific reads, absorbing and thrilling.
It's almost impossible to believe Buchan wrote them so quickly; they must be based on incidents of which he had knowledge as an intelligence officer in the Great War. The author has his biases and makes no attempt to disguise them.
I discovered John Buchan a couple of years ago and really enjoy him--pre-WWI British action-adventure-espionage--good fun stuff.
First book I read on Droid/Kindle! Liked it very much. Hitchcock loosely based his first thriller (1935) on this story.
One of my favorite authors. I love the Richard Hannay character. My favorite by far is Mr. Standfast, although they are all excellent.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.321060... Link.
Good old-fashioned British wartime adventure stories.
