https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23127048-air-awakens
“I want a place you hardly dare to even whisper. I want the bravery to not only read, but to do. I want a man, not a library boy. A man who is tall and witty and knows more about the world than you would ever dare dream.”  OH. MY. GOD.This book was utter perfection!! Mix elemental magic with war and schemings and court rivalries and romance and a prince to die for and BOOM! Air Awakens happens. And a seriously embarassing dancing session.  “Vhalla, you are a sorcerer.”  Vhalla is a library app
Vhalla is a library apprentice whose world evolves around books and only books (stop staring at me mom), until one day she accidentally saves the crown prince's life and the Minister of Sorcery informs her that she is a sorcerer as well.
Needless to say, Vhalla gradually comes around, with a little push (pun intended) from the crown prince who is also known as the Fire Lord (and everyone thinks of him as an arrogant bastard), and she discovers the potential but also the danger she faces as the last Windwalker.
magic is not my thing, so I had to live vicariously through Vhalla and it felt good.
• Because Vhalla is small, not beautiful, boring hair, clumsy, awkward, and has terrible communication skills.• Basically all she has going for her is....• ...wait sorry, I couldn't think of anything I'LL GET BACK TO YOU.• Well there is the SMALL FACT that she's a Windwalker, which is, I gather, a person who walks on winds and is also extremely rare.
WHEN CAN SOMEONE BURN THAT LINE AND THAT PRINCE?• Also features: boring dream flashbacks.• Also features the Super Duper Attractive Meanie Prince who like throws you off a building one day and then says "but but i didn't mean it love me my cherry blossom" the next.• ALSO FAINTING.
You see so many moments where he tries to make up for his actions with Vhalla, and I swear I got Snape-Lilly chills because of all the books I have wanted to read, a Snape POV prequel series to Harry Potter is my dream and this is like Snape in the medieval times as a snarky crown prince sorcerer who is incredibly hot with an almost equally gorgeous brother.2.
Even if there hadn't been romance I would have read this book.
Instead of an awesome high fantasy, I get a book filled with boring bullshit, whiny characters and an asshole of a love interest.The first 60 pages of this book had me confused as fuck.
Someone told me this had a love triangle and I assumed it was between the two prince's, Baldair and Aldrik.
okay.) I was so confused as to which prince Vhalla was referring to.
Stop letting an asshole abuse and push you around.
I would like it if the magic and world building was a bit more explained because it was very intriguing and I would love to read more about it.
The cover is a promise of beauty and badassery but instead we got this;I truly feel this is a more appropriate cover for this novel.Let me firstly start this rant off by laughing at some goodreads users.
However I have read some fantastic YA fantasy books in my time and I did actually compare those novels to this one while reading, I really should have lowered my expectations however when I see a beautiful cover and a promising blurb my expectations will go through the roof.
I have seen these themes used a hundred times, this novel was basically avatar:the last air bender but with annoying angsty teens.
A sorcerer with battle scars came back to Vhalla with vivid clarity. They were sending her to war, so she would go and become something they had every right to fear.  I think it's time I stop having so much hype for a book. I feel like one enjoys a book more, whether it has a lot of hype or not, without having many expectations because when you have none, you're really met with things you didn't expect and most of the time you're hyped for a book and you end up disliking it. I've planned on re
As Vhalla is being taught by the Prince himself and her other friends, she learns ways to use her magic but also realizes dangerous times she might have to face because of it.I was supposed to join Sana on her buddy read for this book but I ended up reading the whole thing before letting her catch up and after she got me confused and after figuring everything out, I wanted to just finish this as soon as possible.
Also, I've kind of missed writing reviews and reading and actually finishing books since I haven't done either one in like, 2 months, so this is my first review after 2 months or so.
AIR AWAKENS is on Sale for $0.99!To celebrate the cover and title reveal of the first book in Air Awakens: Vortex Chronicles, the AIR AWAKENS eBook is on sale for $0.99 from now through Cyber Monday!Grab it here: http://getbook.at/AAGG(Remember, if you don't have a Kindle you can email proof of purchase to elise.kova.author[at]gmail[dot]com and I will send a link for you to read the book on any ereader.)Already read Air Awakens?Pre-order VORTEX VISIONS (Air Awakens: Vortex Chronicles, #1): http://viewbook.at/VortexVisions(Submit proof of pre-order + your name + mailing address to ElisePreOrder[at]gmail[dot]com to get a signed postcard and be entered for a chance to win a special swag box with a signed hardcover!
Air Awakens was absolutely riddled with bad writing; Vhalla’s ‘indecision’ was pretty much the entire story; she has a whole lot of cliche not-flaws (false modesty, anyone?)…I could go on for ages about why this book didn’t work for me.
Only one character could really be called developed, and I wish he hadn’t even existed.Crown Prince Aldrik, our love interest, is possibly five people in one body.
Honey, you likely would’ve died because he pushed you out of a window.If that wasn’t bad enough, we have Sareem, who’s apparently hopelessly in love with Vhalla, God knows why.
Luckily as I went through the pages, I didn't experience difficulty in absorbing everything because it was so darn good!The book mainly centers on the heroine Vhalla Yarl, a library apprentice who later on discovered that she was entirely something else...
And then there's this swoony, smart, a totally mysterious crown prince and sorcerer Aldrik who later on became her mentor in discovering more magical things.
Elise Kova sure knows how to manipulate everything in her plot-- from the characters' development and of course, the series of events.
And of course, my lovey dovey Prince Aldrik who is now added to my list of book boyfriends.
ummmmmm AANG THE AVATER MEETS ROYALTY! Elise has literally combined my favourite elements ( HAHA ELEMENTS GET IT ) into one books. I have been waiting to read a fantastic elemental control book for a long time and this one has taken the prizes and ran with it.I am so excited for this whole series.I HIGHLY RECOMMEND! PLEASE READ THIS PLEASE!
AND THEN a few pages later he's back to being a "good friend." Kay.Exhibit B: Roan, another one of Vhalla's "friends." She's totally protective and caring about the first, but when she found out about all the Sareem/Vhalla business, she went on bitch mode, which sucks because, hey, what happened to sisters before misters?THINGS I LIKED1.) The character growth - Okay, so, I didn't LOVE Vhalla at first--she was okay, mostly just your regular Special Snowflake heroine (you know, the kind who were really weak but were still labeled as "The One"), but she turned into a more believable heroine as the story flew by.
To anyone who's ever wanted to see Aang, the Last Airbender, in the body of a teenage girl (but NOT Korra), look no further.
But if you're starting the series on that premise, be warned - this book is, first and foremost, a YA romance.
Vhalla is an apprentice in the imperial castle's library who discovers her magic by inadvertently saving crown prince Aldrik's life.
Her character development throughout the plot is really well done; she opens her mind and starts to think and act more confidently under Aldrik's influence.
Aldrik = new book bf.
He's a "sweet but only shows it to one select girl" kind of guy.
“You are my friend, whatever this commoner’s friendship is worth.” “It is worth very much.”  In a far away kingdomA common library apprentice who spends her working time trying to find new books to read Met the arrogant prince famous for his sharp tongue and skill with sorcerer.After some events she finds herself trusting in the dark prince and they start to spend time together.In truth, Vhalla found out she was also a sorceress.  “Two sorcerers can give birth to a Common. Two Commons can give
“You are my friend, whatever this commoner’s friendship is worth.” “It is worth very much.” 
In a far away kingdomA common library apprentice who spends her working time trying to find new books to read Met the arrogant prince famous for his sharp tongue and skill with sorcerer.After some events she finds herself trusting in the dark prince and they start to spend time together.In truth, Vhalla found out she was also a sorceress.
Two Commons can give birth to a sorcerer.
When I got into the page, almost all of my friends had reviews with two words: Read it.
Wow!➁ The West aka Fire Nation (it was called otherwise in the book but I don’t care) is conquering the rest of the kingdoms!!➂ She falls in love with the prince.
Which means that we have a love rectangle (+ the prince's brother).➅ Everyone thinks she’s so pretty but she finds herself plain and not good looking at all.➆ She doesn’t want her powers, oh no!
I DON’T KNOW WHAT SHE WAS THINKING FOR GOD’S SAKE.If you haven’t already noticed, I didn’t like Vhalla.
Rumor has it Goodreads won't allow international giveaways of paperback copies next year?
I hope that's not true Because that would be such a Way to ruin our fun dear Goodreads gods!Not to mention a form of discriminating readers.
I love giveaways, I've won a couple of e-book copies and a paperback copy that way.
Thank you Elise Kova for opening this giveaway internationally, I hope Goodreads doesn't follow through their crazy idea of cancelling International giveaways.
That would be beneficial ONLY to the publishers that always open their giveaways ONLY on the us, therefore discriminating international readers.
THIS. WAS. AWESOME. WHAT THE HECK. IM IN LOVE. SOMEONE THROW THE NEXT BOOK AT MY HEAD BECAUSE I NEED IT. REVIEW TO COME.
Okay, on a side note, here are my swoon worthy fancastings for Aldrik, Vhalla, and Baldair <3333Crown Prince AldrikVhallaPrince BaldairOKAY.
By the end she was a complete bad ass, and the last line..."They were sending here to war, so she would go and become something they had every right to fear." TALK ABOUT SLAYING.WHY YOU SHOULD READ THIS?Okay, the cover is absolutely gorgeous, and I can't wait to have the complete set <33333There is no insta love, if anyone has read Sora's Quest, and totally ships the slow burn relationship between Crash/Sora, then this book is for you!Aldrik, oh wow, I LOVE his character.
Air Awakens is everything you want in a fantasy/YA book: a solid premise, relatable characters, amazing relationship development, entertaining, and well written.Vhalla Yarl is a library apprentice accidently discovers she is a sorcerer with an affinity for wind.
Parallels have been drawn to Avatar: The Last Airbender.When Vhalla is ‘awoken’ into her powers, she struggles with her preconceived notions of sorcerers.
However, she is given a choice- to accept her new fate and train or eradicate her powers completely.
This, in conjunction with it’s multifaceted characters, is what propels this book from a stereotypical storyline into a life-consuming world that keeps you awake reading until 3am.
After a series of communications between Vhalla and the brooding, dark, handsome, mysterious and misunderstood Aldrik, (we wouldn't have him any other way, right ladies?!), he leads her into discovering her talent for controlling Air. Even better, there has not been an air magician, or Air-Walker, born in the Empire in the last 100-150 years.
“Did you think I went to war and read books?” Vhalla took another step back.
Enter wide-eyed and innocent Vhalla, who looks forward to her birthday so she can have a lemon-cake once a year, and we have three young, self-absorbed and oblivious people, so no wonder things go wacko at the end.
The first half was kind of slow and full of worldbuilding I just didn't care about yet, like:"every natural Affinity bears a unique Affinity of the self, even if not all sorcerers of an elemental Affinity possess the skills."And the plot did seem kind of familiar with a "nobody" girl finding out she has super special magic in a society that would be wary of it and then being mentored by a Darkling-like magical prince.
But to be honest, the cliches I'm talking about are all from stories I LOVE, so I'm definitely not complaining here.
While I liked the premise, I had a hard time rationalizing Vhalla's decisions (the protagonist).
grow some balls!
oh everyone, she does grow said balls.
That moment, ladies and gentlemen, this book became totally badass.
here I am in that moment..
and I have a feeling that is going to keep up through the rest of the series.
My only complaint, aside from what I noted above, was that the language and writing style the author used seemed to distant me a little bit.
Seriously, the last half of this book reminded me so much of COTAR.
And yeah, sure, there are fifty million things I guess I could talk about, but why bother if I can't talk about what I want to?So, alright whatever, fuck it-All I want to talk about is Prince Aldrik, so that's what I'm going to talk about.
*disclaimer* Was in middle of starting second paragraph when I heard news that extremely upset me so this won't be a good review like I had wanted.
I cannot WAIT to write a review on this....I've not seen the guys' names much in reviews in specifics so this is going to be REALLY hard for me.
"They were sending her to war, so she would go and become something they had every right to fear." I'll be honest, I found the first half of the story to be a little slow. There was A LOT of history to remember regarding the sorcerers, especially with the Windwalkers. Therefore, I recommend taking notes or bookmarking a few things to refer back to when characters mention certain things because it's a lot to take in especially if you're  slow  like me. :PNot a lot of action happened either in th
I'll be honest, I found the first half of the story to be a little slow.
There was A LOT of history to remember regarding the sorcerers, especially with the Windwalkers.
:PNot a lot of action happened either in the first half so I was a little disappointed because I really wanted to see Vhalla and the rest of the sorcerers actively using their magic but instead we just get a few glimpses here and there and just minor tricks that Vhalla has learned.
In fact, I think this might be the first book I've read that has sorcerers.
Hope this isn't too weird.me: So why did we like this book?Nice me: Aldrik is so hot!
And can we talk about the semi-love rectangle going on?Nice me: I hated that actually.Cynical me: Oh!
It was, hmmm, I can't find the right word?Nice me: Original, Amazing, mesmerising, lovely..Cynical me: Typical!
Listen:Aldrik your love made me blindAldrik I know that you're hurt insideBut you don't have to cry.Because I will be here for you Hugging you to my chestKeeping you close And once you're tiredI will take you home.Cynical me *internal vomit*Nice me: I won!
No word had ever tasted sweeter on her tongue.”I wonder how many times I'll have to update my reviews for this books, since apparently I have problems and I cannot stop rereading them😂 I'll keep it short and sweet: I LOVE THIS SERIES, YALL GO READ IT!!
They are far greater than the sum of their parts together, but are equally as dangerous to each other’s existence.”This series it's freaking incredible and YOU ALL NEED TO READ IT !!!-----------------------------------------------------*Reread June 2016*“Vhalla wanted to blame him.
Love love love this series so much!❤️-----------------------------------------------------*First read December 2015*“I want a place you hardly dare to even whisper.
In this kingdom where one wasn't born into magic, where magic chose people, lived a girl named Vhalla.
Vhalla loved books.
These are the things Vhalla knows of magic:Magic changes things; magic made more men die at war, magic could turn a human into an abomination.
Because though, yes, magic is alive, the people live in fear of it.In the same kingdom lived a boy named Aldrik.
The prince and Vhalla go on many adventures together, fall in love and later get married and live
These are the things Vhalla knows of magic;
She's intellect and books; he's experience and practice.Aldrik: 
8 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack: Dan Gibson – Wind WalkerSarah Blasko – I AwakeEmika – Destiny KillerGenre: high-fantasy, YA+ (upper-YA)Stuff: 2 princes, 1 special girl, elemental magicSetting: capital of the Empire Fail: clichesWOW: characters and chemistryPOV: 3rd-person, femaleLove-Geometry: seemingQ
Dan Gibson – Wind WalkerSarah Blasko – I AwakeEmika – Destiny KillerGenre: high-fantasy, YA+ (upper-YA)Stuff: 2 princes, 1 special girl, elemental magicSetting: capital of the Empire Fail: clichesWOW: characters and chemistryPOV: 3rd-person, femaleLove-Geometry: seemingQuote-Core: “I want a place you hardly dare to even whisper.
Westerners (the Empire, where our characters live, is on the West, btw) have black hair and dark eyes, olive skin and power over flames.
He’s about 24-25, tall, has a good body, shoulder-length raven hair and black eyes.
“Nothing about him was traditionally handsome, and for it all, he was astonishingly striking.”Also he’s witty, silver-tongued, snarky… hm, maybe Vhalla would describe him better:“You, my prince,” she sneered in kind.
Well well well. I am pleasantly surprised about this book. I thought it was going to be super boring and childish. But...I was wrong. I admit it. This book reminds me of The Demon King series but with more magic. I have no complaints other than the usual insta-ish-love. But I love bad boys so I'd be just as bad. And at least it was more towards the end of the book when it really starts?Whatever.Jennymort out.OH. BTW.ERZA MILLER = ALDRIK FUCKING SOLARIS
Magic affinities for the elements.Four empires – the North, the East, the South and the West.The last sorcerer to manipulate Air.Does this remind anyone of Avatar The Last Airbender? And a raven-haired crown prince who is a Firebearer with a temper and despicable social skills… Now after some Avatar The Last Airbender swoons, let’s move on to the actual review. The charactersVhalla is a 17-yr old library apprentice in the Imperial Palace of the Solaris kingdom (“The South”), which has conquered
Vhalla is plain and normal, she likes to read, she has a crush – nevertheless, she’s a sympathetic main character and you will share the love for books with her (she knows every book in the library).
But, I promise, she develops some sense of magical badassery in the course of the book.The quote actually brings us to Prince Aldrik who is a far more exciting, multi-layered character.
The plotSlow in the beginning, the middle section is devoted to relationship- and world-building where Vhalla discovers her affinity for air and for a certain dark brooding prince, and the ending is all BOOM.
Buddy read with my Wifey *who secretly wants our relationship to be like this with farting instead of eyelash fluttering * and fart buddy.I'll tell you guys about a secret of mine, a shameful one.
I absolutely liked this teenage angsty weirdo book.
It had shitty world building, annoying heroine with who though these shit makes sense happenings.
It's been a month since I've read this book, so it's all in the past, as in I remember it vaguely.
I'm using the term vaguely loosely here because I don't remember jackshit except what I wrote up above.
I'll probably keep reading the series.
