https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26032825-the-cruel-prince
Oftentimes, you have to stop reading completely because the words are so good and you're so full of excitement and love that you need to expend some of that energy, otherwise you'll just spontaneously combust!It’s that feeling of finally finding something that is all-encompassing enough to hold your full attention and something inside of you just awakens and I love it!!✨ so what is this book about?Jude is the bastard daughter of the runaway wife of a Fae general who murdered both of her parents then brought her to a land coiled in the heart of the forest, brimming of monsters and wolves on the prowl, and raised her like a trueborn child of Faerie, despite not having a drop of faerie blood.Jude grew up where the wild is.
“He looks like a faerie lover stepped out of a ballad, the kind where no good comes to the girl who runs away with him.”  If you guys ever want to see what my true heart’s desires are on paper, read this book. This book is a piece of heaven that was sent from above, this book is the perfection incarnate, this book is nothing short of magical, this book easily makes my top five books of all-time list, and this book is without a doubt the best book I’ve read in 2017. I’m not sure how I’m even go
Well, she ended up handing me two, but one of them was Tithe by Holly Black, and this godsend Borders Outlet employee completely changed me and my reading life forever.
The amount of sticky notes and highlights I have in this book is ridiculous, but Holly Black’s writing is so poignant and lyrical and honestly the most perfect thing my eyes have ever seen.
I just know that The Cruel Prince is a once in a lifetime series, because this first installment was everything I have ever wanted in a book.Holly Black immerses me, captivates me, and makes me believe in magic.
No matter how careful I am, eventually I'll make another misstep. I am weak. I am fragile. I am mortal.I hate that most of all. 4 1/2 stars. Over the course of this year, I've read both books that I've liked and books I've disliked. I've read books that I've loved and, it's fair to say, books that are better written, more unique, and more groundbreaking than this book. That being said, however, I am struggling to recall a book that has left me this excited about a YA series in a very long time.
The wait for the next book is going to be torture!Holly Black knows her audience so well.
So of course The Cruel Prince opens with a brutal murder that leaves Jude, her twin sister Taryn, and their older sister Vivienne at the mercy of the redcap general - Madoc.
For our narrator - Jude - rebellion, bloodshed and winning her place in the King's council is what she desires.
Even before the real drama kicks off in the later chapters, I was so wholly pulled into Jude's world.
Someone please revive me because I am dead from the awesomeness of this book.If you want to read a masterpiece of character and story, look no further.
The Cruel Prince showcases Holly Black at the top of her game: it is exquisitely dark and delightfully wicked, set in an intricate world of highlighted sensation--the taste of faerie fruit, the feel of rich, decaying fabrics, the smells of dangerous old chambers--and populated by a cast of characters that left me dying from feels.
The princes of Faerie!
I require book 2 immediately. Holly is the Faerie Queen.
Because of the hype, I assumed I would enjoy this book.
I'm quite an easy-to-please reader, so usually when a book is hyped up, I tend to enjoy it.
I always go in weary, but with a sense of optimism when it comes to hyped books.
Our main character had no proper background that we as readers were exposed to in order for us to connect with, no experience, and neither had she trained to gain any of it throughout the course of the book.
It wasn't that it was even mediocre; the whole book felt pointless to me.
You know a story is good when, at night, before falling asleep, you eagerly replay the story in your mind, but this time with you as the main character living an exciting adventure full of intrigue, danger and romance.
I’m glad she experimented so much with the faerie world in the past, because it led her to write this precious book.Holly Black doesn’t reinvent faeries, but she does give them flair.
This isn’t about faeries invading the human world; it’s about a human girl doing everything she can to gain strength against the creatures who have kept her from having a normal, human childhood.Jude is so flawed it’s beautiful.
It’s hard to fully capture what it is about her world-building that is so magical, but her books are always my favorite when it comes to faeries.
There are few words to accurately describe her talent for writing intriguing and beautiful fantasy worlds.I really enjoyed the characters in this story.
I will admit, I did lose focus at sometimes while listening to the audiobook because so much of this novel is centered on political relationships, the complications of monarchies, dynamics between different courts, and plotting to overthrow.
I would highly recommend it to anyone interested in fantasy, faeries, political intrigue, or just an all-around immersive novel.
"If I cannot be better than them, I will become so much worse."   I see why people call Holly Black 'Queen of the Faeries'. Hoooly wow. What a delightfully dark, twisty novel.If you know anything about me, I'm all about the court politics & intrigue, villains & anti-heroes, and schemes within plots within schemes. This book had my name written ALL over it.Okay so here's the basic rundown without giving away too much. Jude and Taryn are twins. Vivi is their older sister. It turns out, V
Having grown up with Madoc as the only father they knew, Taryn and Jude have come to love him like a father, while Vivi promises to always hate him for what he did.Being the general's daughters, Jude and her sisters are raised alongside the High King's sons and daughters.
She gets in a few good swings at Cardan, which royally pisses him off in the most delightful way.
He meets Jude in secret and offers her a position of power if she spies for him.
I loved how complicated things get with her sisters and Madoc's family, and how buried some of the secrets are.
384 pages. ZERO SUBSTANCE. Unless you call pages littered with problematic shit... substance.I don’t get it. I just don’t fucking get it. ✨ Before: This book is my 1st experience with Holly Black. It’ll either make or break our future relationship. ✨ After: Any plans for a potential future relationship is hereby terminated. Over. Done with. Null and void. Cancelled... you get the point.when you go into a book expecting gold and it ends up being your worst read of the year. In January…Oh, the rage…
Sorry folks, I don't get it.2.5? Maybe...Unmemorable. Another YA fantasy with fairies and humans, clichés and cringe romance similar to all the other fantasy/dystopian books that have been coming out. I don't understand the hype because there was nothing I found good in here. There wasn't anything horrible either which leaves me with a "meh" review. Won't continue the series. Don't recommend it.
If I cannot be better than them, I will be so much worse. The Cruel Prince has just about what you'd expect from Black: court intrigue, an atmosphere of terror, vaguely dark romance, and a main character who is a terrible person. Plus some interesting dynamics and setup for an even better sequel. Needless to say, I found it delightful.I think Black's tendency is to start a story with a badass opening, then spend 200 pages on slow buildup. At first I thought it was just because this is a series
The Cruel Prince has just about what you'd expect from Black: court intrigue, an atmosphere of terror, vaguely dark romance, and a main character who is a terrible person.
Maybe my favorite part of this book was the character work.
Holly Black is very talented at getting side characters to read real, even without much focus on them.
It's Holly fucking Black, do you really think she needs the help?5/20/2017: anyway I finally started this after three fucking weeks 5/12/2017: I can't believe I got an arc of this honestly!!
Basically I was so in love with the gorgeous and brutally nasty world.10/10 chances that if I got lured into faerieland I'd be like Jude and stay too.
There is MURDER and it's chilling.+ I really loved Jude, our protagonist!She's such a complicated person, born fully human and being fostered by, basically, her parent's murderer (also her human mum's ex husband...look the fey world is complicated).
Or favourite of ever?!?BASICALLY: READ THIS.If you like dark fey stories and books that aren't afraid to get bloody and girls with swords and clever crafty plots -- this one.
Stunning modern fairy tale a la Holly Black.  If I cannot be better than them, I will become so much worse.   Jude (and her twin, Taryn) are human but their older sister (Vivi) belonged to another world. Their mother fled fairlyland when she was pregnant with Vivi and escaped to the human world. Their mother gave birth to the half-fairy Vivi, married and soon had Jude & Taryn.  But their little family could not stay hidden. Madoc (her mother's ex husband) belongs to the fae and according to
Stunning modern fairy tale a la Holly Black.
Jude (and her twin, Taryn) are human but their older sister (Vivi) belonged to another world.
Their mother fled fairlyland when she was pregnant with Vivi and escaped to the human world.
Their mother gave birth to the half-fairy Vivi, married and soon had Jude & Taryn.
Jude and Taryn embrace this wondrous and fearsome world - finding their place among the crazed and the creative, the beasts and the beauties, the tragedies and terrors.
He looks at me as though no one has ever spoken to him like this.
Jude was a really edgy, imperfect, relatable character and I really liked her.
So often, I want characters to do something - maybe say something or do something I want them to do in a specific moment - and I am left feeling frustrated and annoyed when they don't.
But, Jude?Home girl DID all of those things and more and I loved it.
She saw that proverbial high road on some occasions, the one other characters sometimes begged her to take and she said:Get it, girl.
It will definitely be interesting to see what happens with the plot and certain character relationships in the next book.
Brace yourselves, folks, we're jumping on the hype wagon!  “If I cannot be better than them, I will become so much worse.”    First Stop: Elfhame With all the raving reviews about The Cruel Prince, how could little ol' Katerina resist? The Hype (yes, Hype with a capital H because it's a being of its own that swallows the innocent and the weak) was a siren, luring me to dive into its dark waters, and, thankfully, I was not eaten alive. With a successful blend of modern world and faerie lore, Holl
With all the raving reviews about The Cruel Prince, how could little ol' Katerina resist?
Jude was seven years old when a cruel fae showed up on her doorstep, murdering her parents and taking her and her sisters to the realm of the Immortals, a realm so beautiful and imposing that hid how rotten and tainted it was on the inside.
A curious thing happened with The Cruel Prince; I didn't like the main characters.
The Cruel Prince was a beguiling, wicked tale of power, lust, secrets and magic.
I already knew it was coming but here is my Fairyloot box =) Clink link below pic to see about the items!
We have to see how she can handle it all in the next book/s.
I love some of the side characters in this book; The Bomb, Roach, The Ghost.
Prince Cardan is a jerk face too.
There are more peeps -er-faeries that are jerks in the book but it's pretty common.
Lol Anyhoo, I loved it and I'm glad because I own 3 copies of the book in all the beautiful covers =DHappy Reading!
You might recognise a few characters.This book is like paradise for fans of young adult fantasy.
On one hand, Jude is this ruthless human with a backbone like a lion, and on the other hand, she is a typical young adult main character that could be interchanged with several other MCs from different novels.
It troubles me to see characters that hurt and treat one another in the most despicable ways develope a romantic relationship based on such feelings.
I mean, I love Holly Black for making Jude the way she was.
And, of course, I don't condone villainous people, but if it's in a book, I freaking love reading from their perspective.
However, when it's done well, like the way Black made you despise Cadan in the beginning and then come to love him, is just magic in it's own way.
Then, this is a book for YOU!Overall, I don't know what you're still doing here, 'cause you really ought to be out there getting into that horribly sad, yet flawlessly written, prologue.
Instead, I would have gotten the feels like when I read A Daughter of Smoke and Bone or Caraval: It was good, but like it wasn't astonishing or mind-blowing.So, story begins with a Fae coming and murdering the parents of a pair a twins and their half-Fae older sister.
When Jude pushes him too far, she finds herself in the middle of a game of politics that could cause a war between all the Fae Kingdoms.
I get it: You are mortal and you want to be fae.
I loved each chance that we got to spend time with her, and if there was ever a novella about her life with her cute little mortal girlfriend, I’d be so here for it.•	Oriana — the other half of Jude’s makeshift parenting duo, who strikes out as aloof and cold, but has a surprisingly love development process throughout the story that made me genuinely hope we see more of her in the future, as I think she could be a valuable ally for Jude in the coming trials.•	Oak — Oriana’s son, who is tiny, adorable, and wild.
“Love is a noble cause. How can anything in the service of a noble cause be wrong?”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐One day a stranger knocks at Jude’s home and kills her parents only to take her and her sisters to Faerie, a land of magical creatures, where they’re treated badly for being human. The king of the land has many heirs, but only one stands out for Jude. Cardan, who hates her so badly that he makes her life a living hell. Until she fights back. This book was so freaking addictive. I just couldn’t put it
How can anything in the service of a noble cause be wrong?”  Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️One day a stranger knocks at Jude’s home and kills her parents only to take her and her sisters to Faerie, a land of magical creatures, where they’re treated badly for being human.
First of all there were some love stories in it.
There were strange and confusing, but that made the whole story so interesting.
But the most confusing part was the love of the sisters.
Whereas Vivi always stayed loyal to her family and i never doubted her feelings toward her sisters, I was always a little suspicious about Taryn.
this book is...lame.review to come!!!---------------buddy reading this with lily and may and we are definitely all thriving and having a good time. no rage or boredom involved at all---------------just received official word that i WILL be excommunicated from goodreads if i do not have this book on my shelves
It's gratifying that my first read in 2018 is a five-star read which, fingers crossed, clearly portends a robust book-tiful year.When a book opens with a double murder you wonder if the author did it for the shock value until that is, you realise this is actually a foreshadowing of grimmer twists to come. From the first and until the last page, The Cruel Prince had and held my attention. Black wrote a compelling coming of age story all wrapped in political and familial intrigue. I can't wait for the sequel.
3.5 stars / There were things I really liked about this book and other things that were misses for me. I definitely don't think this is the groundbreaking, earth shattering read that many are making it out to be, but I'm glad I read it and I think later books in the series will be stronger. Full review and spoiler discussion to come on my channel :)
This one was slow at first and built towards a really exciting conclusion. The main character made so many choices I didn't agree with, but that's what made it fun and a bit edgy. Don't fully understand the hype for this as my FEELS weren't ignited at all, but hoping the next one will have more feels inducing drama.
The Cruel Prince, aka EVERYBODY SHUT UP THIS IS THE ONLY THING I'M GOING TO TALK ABOUT IN 2018!!!  ©  ❥ first buddy read of the year with my loves, marami, jiabee and the grinch i'm emotionally drained and physically exhausted from reading this book in the span of the last 24 hours so naturally it's the perfect time to sit down and try to put my feelings into words ◆ Plot: without wanting to give too much away, this book tells the story of a mortal girl named Jude who, along with her two siste
without wanting to give too much away, this book tells the story of a mortal girl named Jude who, along with her two sisters, gets stolen away into the world of the fey.
honestly i don't know how holly black manages to intertwine our modern world with the idea of fey so perfectly, but this book jumps from the coronation of a fey prince to 'i stand in the middle of target' in one second and somehow it fucking works???
humans pee) give this book some type of realness and add a certain credibility to it that i just really appreciate.the world-building is good, the characters are fantastic and the writing is beautiful.
Ten years later, Jude wants nothing more than to belong there, but many of the fey hate humans, especially one person in particular - the youngest and wickedest son of the High King, Prince Cardan.
This book was both romantic and dark, but an addictive start to a series I know that's going to be great.
I absolutely love fantasy books.
The last series I read that completely blew me away was the Fae Chronicles by Amelia Hutchins.
So, if this book is on your TBR list, I'd recommend you read it as soon as you have time because it will blow you away.
I was hesitant at first when I heard this book blended fae elements into a modern setting (because y'all know how picky I get with that) but everything ended up working SO perfectly.Jude and her two sisters have been raised in the faerie world by the man who murdered their parents (and fathered one of the sisters), soooo that's a wee bit of a complicated relationship.
So Jude joins one of the prince's Court of Shadows as a spy aaaaand ugh I really don't want to say anything else because the way everything unfolds is brilliant.
But then the writing style completely worked once I got to know Jude's character!
Holy crap!! That was AMAZING! Everything I hoped for and more.
