https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19707.Red_Rabbit
More Dead than Red. It's as if Tom was on sedatives while writing the book. It's hard to exagerate just how dull and repetitive this work really is, but it's a bit like the being hit in the head over and over with a small wooden shovel. It leaves a dull impression on your mind.
I also think over the years Clancy must have both a.) developed a porn addiction, and b.) completely failed in his personal relationships with women, because for as well-researched and realistic his military action stuff is, his depictions of all love interests are horribly juvenile, and over the years they've gotten worse.
They all go something like: "I saw her...stared at her anatomy and got aroused...then 5 minutes later we groped each other...now we're in a relationship, and that's how it all developed." Really Clancy?
His character development got worse, his plots, predictable.
Well then, we here at Drunk Uncle Publishing have got just the book for you!We understand that today's world is complex, and frightening.
When it comes to the books you read, you'd prefer not to have your world-view challenged in any way.
Nothing ruins the reading experience like having to think.Do you find yourself watching the same movies over and over again?
If you agree, and we know that you do, pick up Red Rabbit today.
We here at DUP believe a good book should be like a bag of potato chips.
Pick up your copy of Red Rabbit today.And burn it.
Not really a mystery and definitely not an action-packed thriller.
Around the end of 400 pages a few things finally begin to happen.
There is no real ACTION until 518.
Lots of things are repeated 3 and 4 times.
Jack Ryan has been involved in previous adventures.
One of those adventures involved a helicopter.
He does not like flying.
Eye surgery, which his wife does, turns his stomach.
His wife is a better judge of character and unspoken meaning.
This repetition feels like dead weight padding or lack of a good editor.
The author has definite ideas on history and politics and interjects those in a thoughtful manner.
Operation Beatrix is set in play as dead bodies matching the physical characteristics of Oleg, Irina and Svetlana are collected from house fires in England and Boston and shipped in dry ice in diplomatic boxes to Budapest.
Ryan and the MI6 chaps carefully play them in Budapest, where Oleg gives Irina two hours notice before the snatch begins.
Ryan jumps on the next BA bird out, is rerouted to Mildenhall where he escorts the rabbits to DC and straight to Langley, where he is once again the Golden Boy.
Jack Ryan is already know throught the books before and I started disliking the way Tom Clancy stereotyped his characters already in the other books, but here it really annoyed me.
Do you really have to emphasize repeatedly that Cathy Ryan (the successful doctor) gets angry at her man if he would cook once because the kitchen is her sanctuary and so he doesn't even make himself a sandwich when she's not there?!Also some things are always repeated, like yes we know Jack used to trade stocks, it doesn't have anything to do with the story, so please don't mention it 10 times, nobody cares.I'm sorry, this review is not dispassionate, not at all.
There are a lot of reviewers who don't think Tom Clancy wrote this book.
I don't know if that's true, I don't think it is.
Maybe Clancy wrote it, knew it was crap, and set it aside, after all it wasn't published until 2002, years after its' place in the series.
The plot of Ryan as a CIA analyst in London helping shepherd out a high value Russian defector fits nicely in the series, but there just isn't enough heart pounding action and the excessively long narratives were exhausting.
Best part of the book is the Ed and Mary Pat Foley characters as CIA Chief of Station in Moscow.
We could read about another character, John Clark and Dingo Chavez, like in the terrific Rainbow Six. The trouble with this approach is that as Jack's contemporaries, Clark and Chavez must ultimately develop on trajectories similar to Ryan, and we would be covering old ground.
Also, if you have never read any Clancy before, this book will be very readable---even if at the end you are left with the question of "So what's the big deal about Clancy?" Returning to the problem of what to do next: Notice that Tom Clancy's next book will go back to introducing new characters, this time, Jack Ryan, Jr. With all new materials to work with, I can't wait to see what he comes up with this summer.
My concern is more pedantic perhaps but for a writer who is concerned to present a plethora of detail in his writing Mr Clancy seems to know almost nothing about life in the UK, where a large part of this book is set.
Surely it's just a story and Americans have been ingnorant about life outside the USA for most of their history.
That's true enough, but a lot of the action takes place in Moscow, a city of which I know only what I have read in books.
Jack Ryan is a new analyst working for the CIA, and has been sent over to Britain to work with the SIS for a time.
Oleg Zaitsev, an officer in the KGB s central communications department isn t happy about this, and wants to defect to America as an act of conscience.[return][return]This book is Tom Clancy s latest novel to date, and is set very early in the Jack Ryan timeline, shortly after the events in Patriot Games.
The book was an enjoyable thriller, with a distinct lack of the huge swathes of technical material that always annoyed me about some of Clancy s books.
3/100Vollkommen verunglückte Kreuzung von russischem Gesellschaftsroman und Agentenplotte.TC schreibt mindestens so weitschweifig wie Tolstoj, ist aber kein besonders guter Charakterzeichner.Tatsächlich macht der Autor den Eindruck als wäre seine mentale Entwicklung im Transformers-Alter stehen geblieben.
So gut wie jede Eigenheit auf der Insel wird als Zeichen der Rückständigkeit aufs Korn genommen, Ronald Reagen und Maggie Thatchter bekommen dagegen einen Heiligenschein.
Aber in welcher anderen Agentenreihe wird der Held am Ende schon Präsident?Tom Clancy ist immerhin nicht so weit gekommen wie sein Held, aber an manchen Tagen wünsche ich mir fast, dass Jack Ryan den aktuellen Amtsinhaber ablöst.
I am exceedingly glad I only paid $1 for this book at a library book sale.
It may be worth that much, but no more.
Red Rabbit reads as though Tom Clancy needed to write 618 pages in a hurry because he needed the money.
Clancy has become too comfortable with his writing and, in this book at least, writes like a formalistic hack.
If you read and liked Hunt for Red October or Patriot Games or other of his earlier novels, you might want to skip this one if you wish to continue holding Clancy in good repute.
Red Rabbit was by far the weakest of all of Tom Clancy’s Jack Ryan books.
Part of it was that even though it was a prequel, it really didn’t sound like Jack Ryan at all.
Clancy thrillers always have a certain over-the-top quality to them.
Unfortunately, Red Rabbit’s plot felt so contrived and disjointed that I had a difficult time believe that Clancy actually wrote it.
Maybe every writer is destined to write at least one regrettable book in their career.
If that’s the case, Red Rabbit is the one.
If you have never read Tom Clancy before, whatever you do, don’t start with this one.
audioIf your looking for action look elsewhereIf your looking for a bit of history as to espionage involving Soviet Union vs UK vs USA, there is a lot here.
Clancy discusses many cultural differences and political ideology.one negative: he keeps talking about Ryan's great training and experience with his less than a year as US Marine 2LT.
1- he only had ROTC 2-2nd LT's are at the bottom of the food chain.
Lt's were like flies in a barnyard and unless you had specific contact you did not salute them.It seems that Clancy may write like W.E.B. Griffin where only about 3% of the content is action.
Excellent procedural novel on espionage. It is so believably written! Characters and their lives fleshed out well. No over the top gimmicks here. Simple stunt is complex enough. It is not your fast food kind of book more like a barbeque on slow grill. Very delicious. Nice way to start the year with the bunny zaichikp.s - a bit too much hatred towards the soviet union maybe?
I kept waiting for some action to kick-in but, after about 350 pages, I surrender. I would say "move along people, nothing to see here!"
This is a great book. I finally realized, after reading 400 pages, that I've already read it! If you're a Tom Clancy fan I highly recommend this one.
I don't think he's actually writing anymore.
Does Clancy really think we all love Jack Ryan so much that we want to hear what he has for breakfast every day?
This is a book where one little thing happens and we then are forced to read ten pages of different characters musing about how the event fits into their personal philosophies before the next little thing happens to inch the plot along.
Annoyingly, Clancy decided that it was cute to spell "pshrink" with a p, and he repeats it like twenty times throughout the book.
This was the first Tom Clancy book I read cover-to-cover and I almost didn't finish.
It was a complicated yet bland plot: A Soviet wants to defect?
It's kicking an enemy when he's already dead.Moreover, this is Tom Clancy's first post-9/11 book.
With Sum of All Fears and Bear and the Dragon accurately portraying the dangers of a post-Cold War world, why have a blast-to-the-past nobody wanted?
The rise of Islamic terrorism should've made Tom Clancy's work much easier; the US having a defined enemy once again.
But Tom Clancy begins his decline here.
In the past I've read several of the other Jack Ryan books--Patriot Games, Hunt for Red October, Cardinal in the Kremlin, Clear and Present Danger and The Sum of All Fears. Came across this and thought it'd be fun to revisit good ol' Jack...I was wrong. This book lacked the tension and action of the previous books, even though it had what could be a blockbuster concept--the Soviets want to assassinate the Polish Pope to prevent him from causing the Polish people from being inspired to throw off the chains of their Communist overlords.
Red Rabbit takes us back to the younger days of CIA analyst Jack Ryan, in this book he is out of America with his family, and he is working for the British SIS. In Moscow the director of the KGB, Yuriy Andropov intends to kill the pope. Major Zaitzev of the KGB wants to defect to the US when he overhears about the plot. It was an okay read, it wasn't one of Clancy's best in my opinion, it didn't seem to be as exciting and suspenseful as his other works either, but it does have a good storyline.
Many panned this book, but I really enjoyed it – almost as much as Patriot Games. Due to his background in the military, finance, academia and espionage, Jack Ryan's perspective is always interesting. Actually, the author could remind us of these various parts of his main character a little less, and his CONSTANT mentions of Ryan's promise gets somewhat repetitive. Also repetitive is his overuse of dramatic irony. The story is set in Cal Ripken's rookie year, and he must mention at least five times through his characters that Ripken has promised.
Well, it wasn't quite as much fun as Patriot Games, or The Hunt for Red October. The story involves a KGB communications officer escaping out of the Soviet Union, and the escape itself (view spoiler)[ goes off fairly smoothly. No one dies, no one gets left behind, zip. (hide spoiler)]. There's also a 1980s plot with the Pope and Solidarity in Poland and so forth that I'm not sure integrates as well with the rest of the Ryanverse. At any rate, it's still an interesting read. Next up in my chronol
Well, it wasn't quite as much fun as Patriot Games, or The Hunt for Red October.
The story involves a KGB communications officer escaping out of the Soviet Union, and the escape itself (view spoiler)[ goes off fairly smoothly.
No one dies, no one gets left behind, zip.
(hide spoiler)].
There's also a 1980s plot with the Pope and Solidarity in Poland and so forth that I'm not sure integrates as well with the rest of the Ryanverse.
Next up in my chronological reread of the Ryanverse: the Hunt for Red October.
Now that should be fun.
This book is based on the true experiences of a CIA agent named James Olson who was teaching in the Bush School of Government at Texas A&M University in 2004. I heard him speak at a State of the State conference here in Austin. Nobody in the CIA seemed to know where Tom Clancy was getting this information and he (Clancy) refused to divulge anything to the CIA. Per Mr. Olson, Clancy is, indeed, an asshole.Mr. Olson had plans to publish his memoirs but I have yet to see them listed anywhere.
All in all, I think if you had an honest editor who would trim this thing down from 640 pages to about 100, you'd have a fairly decent spy novella. Assuming that the editor was also staging an intervention for Clancy's casual racism, sexism, and crippling Reaganophilia. As it stands, the title should probably be "Young Jack Ryan Very Slowly Fails to Stop the Pope Getting Shot in the Gizzard: Ladies Be Shopping."
This was another entertaining story from Tom Clancy. He's still a little repetitive with his side comments, but nothing felt too grating. The relationship between Jack and Cathy is described nicely though by no means in depth. It was a little weird to read a story centered around an attack on the pope at the same time as all the attention focused on the vatican for the voting of a new pope.
The KGB is plotting to assassinate the Pope. CIA analyst Jack Ryan is in England trying to put a stop to it. A good espionage thriller, but Clancy can be redundant at times - making the book a lot longer than it should have been.
I know it's fiction, but I just have a hard time believing the titular character's primary interaction with Ed Foley. Nobody would do that.
A real Tortoise.
I gave 4 stars mainly for the middle portion where there was no action and just lots of dry descriptions
