https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13033.The_Alexandria_Quartet
Rather, skilful use of adjectives creates the right sense and connotation for the reader to understand what Durrell aims to say about love and sensuality.The main criticism of this novel is the apparent lack of plot.
Justine was still a beautiful start to this quartet and easily a 4 and a half star book.BalthazarThis novel is far more difficult to understand than its predecessor, Justine due to what appeared to be shifts in the narrative chronology and also narrator.
I’ve read all of his books but "The Alexandria Quartet" is unquestionably his most brilliant work in the period just before the Second World War in Alexandria.It was originally four novels: Justine, Balthazar, Mountolive and Clea and they have been combined into this work.
I read this book about twenty years ago and I look at it from time to time just to read the exquisite style.
Always a twist and something else...All I can say, if someone asked me if I only had one book that I could possibly keep, what would that be?
Well unquestionably the Alexandria Quartet.
I just find it so impossible to describe this fantastic style of writing.
Layering also occurs when one thinks of the literary techniques on display – the first novel in the quartet is very much of the turn-of-the-century style, modernist, traditionally told, full of rather naïve exoticisation and riffs on love.
Well, Durrell does at times allow his language to run away from him and become what can only be termed "purple" or "florid" – However, as this is primarily the case in the first novel, which we learn is written by one of the characters, it can, perhaps, be excused.
Looking over the Goodreads reviews of this tetralogy, I find almost everyone gave it either five stars with the note that it's the greatest work they have ever read and that it changed their lives, to one or two stars marked by utter impatience.
After a thousand pages, I was hoping for some resolution, some admission that, although the truth is not possible, we can at least make better and better approximations; but resolution would have been untrue to the fundamental claims the work was trying to make.
Although I haven’t had much time for reading, this books had a hypnotic quality to them that sucked me in deep in the Durrell’s world, city of Alexandria.
You can perceive city of Alexandria as hell and as whole earth and characters are not defined and fixed, their faces constantly change thought out the course of narrative, and through them you can see struggles, flaws and dark places of each and every one of us.
What fascinated me the most is constant change in perspective that really highlighted the subjective outlook of one person, overall relativity of the truth and complexity of human character.
Finished "Justine" -- the first novel.
The language is the star, hypnotic, insightful, poetic, abstracted, stupefying, sublime, ridiculously overwritten 73% of the time (with two similes packed into a metaphorical sentence etc).
Struck me as exactly the sort of supreme Euro literary tradition that Knausgaard wanted to throw off.
Clear characters, although they all seem caught in the Alexandrine amber of the language.
Will read "Balthazar," the second novel, later this summer -- need to read something a little lighter now, something in which every image is not so modified and significant.
This theme finds a bizarre counterpoint throughout.The novel Balthazar takes the premise of Justine -- foreigners behaving badly in the ancient city -- and extrapolates it with an unknown resonance.
Darley/Durrell is establishing a "great interlinear" a hypertext with contradicting testimony interspersed in his own account.
Montolive is my favorite of the set and a likely zenith for Durrell's ambition.
The Quartet clambers to halt in Clea, by far the weakest novel of the series.
The necessary throes of Darley and Clea felt so contrived that I have trouble even thinking calmly about it now.
One of the cleverest things about the Dumas novel is the way he reinterprets early 17th century French history as really being about the romantic lives of Anne of Austria, on the large scene, and D'Artagnan, on the small one - a sort of Sherlock Holmes/Basil the Great Mouse Detective deal.
The second novel, Balthazar, gives a different, external perspective on the same affair; suddenly, a number of things which previously didn't quite make sense come into perspective.
I wondered too if Jan Kjærstad was in his turn inspired by Durrell when he composed the Jonas Wergeland trilogy - again, we have the same events shown from three complementary perspectives.
That trickery of perception.Here's how it went for me: beautiful, poetic writing...followed by casual racism...then brilliant artistic insights...then ugly amoral behavior...then cultural revelations...then awkward construction...then imaginative atmospheric metaphors capturing a sense of place and time...then postmodern literary devices....etc etc.
Couple that with changes that happen to them over time, it highly destabilizes the concept of "identity."Book Three, Mountolive, throws another wrench into the consistency of the story in that it is told from a third person perspective, a close god's-eye view from inside some of the characters featured in Books One and Two. This was a strange shift that was not particularly justified by Durrell and presents details that Darley never could have known (authorial invention?).
Even though it took me ages to finish this massive read, the eloquence and the elegancy of the prose blew me away.
I absolutely adored the fact that the plot was non linear,at least during the first 3 books, whilst the landscape descriptions were mesmerizing and haunting.This is definitely an unparallel piece of art, full of philosophical reflections and beautifully written passages about love.Yes, one day I found myself writing down with trembling fingers the four words (four letters!
four faces!) with which every story-teller since the world began has staked his slender claim to the attention of his fellow-men.
Words which presage simply the old story of an artist coming of age.
Being a serial book-adulterer I have fallen into and wandered out of love with an amoral number of books - but I remain forever in thrall to the Alexandria Quartet.Of course, I may change my mind in ten years. Let's just wait and see.
<< Τα αγγλικά διαθέτουν δυο ξεχασμένες λέξεις, συγκεκριμένα helpmeet ( σύντροφος ), που είναι πολύ πιο σημαντική από τη λέξη lover ( εραστής ) και loving – kindness ( τρυφερή αγάπη ), που είναι πολύ μεγαλύτερη από τη love ( έρωτας ), ακόμα και από την passion ( πάθος ) >>Ακόμα κι αν είσαι εντελώς αδιάφορος για την καταπίεση, τον υποβιβασμό και τη στοχοποίηση των μειονοτήτων, σε κάνεις να νοιαστείς, τα μάτια σου ν’ ανοίξουν ορθάνοιχτα, τα μυαλά σου να ξεκλειδωθούν για να κατανοήσεις και να συμπονέσεις και τελικά μέσα σου να ξεδιαλύνεις πως εκείνος που θέλει να διεκδικήσει το δικαίωμα του σαν δεν του αφήνουν κανένα περιθώριο δεν είναι τρομοκράτης απαραίτητα, είναι διαμαρτυρόμενος, είναι παρεξηγημένος, μπορεί να ακολουθήσει βίαιες φορές, αλλά το άδικο έχει γίνει σ’ αυτόν, όχι στους άλλους, όποια υποστήριξη κι αν έχουν από μεγάλη δύναμη.
Star RatingI read "Justine" many years ago and have just read the whole "Quartet".I've reviewed the individual works separately at the links below.
I rated "Mountolive" five stars and the others four.I rated "Mountolive" higher, because of the roundabout journey it took me on.
I've rated the "Quartet" as a whole five stars.
My rationale is that the sum is greater than its parts (which could almost be one of its themes).However, there is a good chance that I will some day increase the four star ratings to five.Durrell deserves to be considered in the same company as Proust for both subject matter and prose.REVIEWS OF INDIVIDUAL VOLUMES:"Justine"https://www.goodreads.com/review/show..."Balthazar"https://www.goodreads.com/review/show..."Mountolive"https://www.goodreads.com/review/show..."Clea"https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Probably one of the most spectacular things I've read in a long time.
The characters are cast from all corners of Egyptian society, bringing high and low together in a sensuous jumble.
The shifting narrative means that as you go through the series you get more and more perspective on the characters and essential plot points.
Writing a review of something I read more than thirty years ago is difficult but I suspect reviewing Durrell's Quartet is difficult at any time.
I remember being confused by much of it but feeling compelled to read the four separate novels nonetheless.
If I wanted to read something about Egypt, I think I'd go for a book by an Egyptian author.
Durrell was so clearly under the spell of the country that the fiction he modeled from his life there is too obscure and unlikely for me to have the patience to read it now.
The most beautifully written books I have ever read.
Here are my review of the individual books:1. Justine2. Balthazar3. Mountolive*4. Clea** Reviews in process
I've just reread the Quartet after a forty year interval during which I've enjoyed hundreds of books, and in recent years, written fiction of my own. I was once overwhelmed by Durrell’s descriptive power and humbled by his explosive creativity. As I returned to exotic Alexandria, I wondered if I would once again be transfixed by the same kaleidoscope of words that had once rotated my view of love and life. Four volumes later the answer is YES. Although my understandings have evolved, these books remain one of my few benchmarks for judging a masterpiece.
A magnificent work, tightly constructed... it is impossible to consider these four volumes independently. Though published separately, they form a whole. I had thought about reading this since I was 20, when I had read what Henry Miller had to say about Durrell. Of course, I would not have understood, nor been able to read this at that age.The volume has flaws, to be sure... it is not easy to read. There are artifices in the plot. The language is often bizarre... and deliberately artificial... and yet..., and yet...
Reading post modern novels can make it hard returning to modernist works. This tetralogy is magnificent. The story of love and obsession is conveyed through the elaborate descriptive writing about the city Alexandria. Rich, complex and compelling characters add texture and tone to an already vivid and hallucinogenic portrayal of the cityscape and are testament to Lawrence Durrell's hypnotic and mesmerising prose style.
Durrell's four part novel is depraved but rollicking great fun.Quand j'étais au premier cycle à une université anglo-saxonne pendant les années soixante-dix on considérait "Le quatuor d'Alexandrie" comme étant une des plus grandes œuvres sinon la plus grande de la littérature anglaise du vingtième siècle.
Je suis en fin de compte très mal à l'aise avec la manière dont Durrell voit l'amour et la vie humaine.Un aspect du "Quatuor" que j'ai beacoup du mal à comprendre c'est le manque d'intérêt chez les personnages pour la deuxième grande mondiale.
They glowed in their arbors of burnished green leaf like lanterns flickering up there among the sunny woods.” These are the first two sentences in the last volume (Clea) of The Alexandria Quartet.
There’s a reason why great books endure; and as the days and years go by, there will be new lucky readers who will discover Mr. Durrell's exotic vision of Alexandria, Egypt and they will want to carry the torch, in honor of this great writer, to convince others—any serious reader—to join the club and discover (like some beautiful terrain under a sumptuous rainbow) this incredibly poetic piece of literature filled with amazing and unforgettable characters.
There are some stories to which one should return at intervals.
Taking the Quartet as a single work: Part spy novel, part doomed romance, part Bildungsroman -- though the unravelling of your own story is one hell of a way to grow -- part Grail quest for the Truth (if one truth exists), part literary treatment on relativity, and paean to Alexandria...if I get one packing crate of books to take with me to the desert island, the Quartet makes the cut.
Alexandria between the wars. I don't think there will ever be a more sensual, lyrical, painterly writer than Durrell, nor a more exquisitely delineated labyrinthine, incestuous, brilliant, tangled society than that of his Alexandria, Egypt. A single page contains more beauty than is in the entire New York Times Bestseller list combined. If I could have written any book, I think it would have been these four interwoven masterpieces.
Beautiful, eloquent, haunting, airy, meditative, suave, cosmopolitan, transcendent, poetic, romantic, pessimistic, ruminative, opaque, mournful, tender, modern, erotic, imaginative, masterful, magnificent!
Stratis Tsirkas did it better.
The Orient cannot rejoice in the sweet anarchy of the body - for it has outstripped the body [...:] Alexandria was the great winepress of love; those who emerged from it were the sick men, the solitaries, the prophets - I mean all who have bee deeply wounded in the sex.''Empty cadences of sea-water licking its own wounds, sulking along the mouths of the delta, boiling upon those deserted beaches - empty, forever empty under the gulls: white scribble on the grey, munched by clouds.
So it seems like he wrote a novel instead, however this was only a disguise, for he has infiltrated his bad poetry into his novel.
Multiple, very poetical at times, iterations on the relationships of a tight-knit group of people, the way they use/abuse and exploit each other.Going at it from multiple POVs. Multiple cameras in action.Also, dissecting the inter-community, inter-cultural relationships at the time, in Alexandria.Revealing the truth, if there's one:-), gradually, onion-style.
It feels going deeper, to other layers.No, it's like a potent suggestion and drug for me, clearly amasterpiece in its genre.This potency and the iterations can lead to a feeling of surfeit.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder they say. And beauty of a word is in the eye of the reader and beauty of a thought is in the mind of the thinker. The Alexandria Quartet is a very beautiful book in all the aspects. And it is written in magical language.“Science is the poetry of the intellect and poetry the science of the heart's affections.”Relativity rules. All the events are relative and their interpretation depends on the vantage point of a beholder.
S tím vším bych se ještě nějak smířil, ale kdyby zestárla Justina, Darley, Melissa nebo Nessim, kdybych se musel dívat, jak stárne Clea, co hůř kdyby se před mým očima koloniální Alexandrie, toto město „pěti jazyků, pěti ras, a tuctu různých věr“, odkouzlovala v moderní pětimilionové velkoměsto, asi bych už Alexandrijský kvartet Lawrence Durella nikdy nečetl.
Letní vzduch mírně nasáklý vlhkostí moře.“ Z nábožensko-filosofického hlediska je Alexandrijský kvartet sycený koptským křesťanstvím, islámem, ale také gnosticismem, a tak není divu, že Alexandrie je často zachycována jako město protikladů: „princezna i děvka“, „královské město a anus mundi“, „nemožné město lásky a obscénnosti“.
