https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/994232.Fifteen
If you haven't met him yet, and you have a weakness for nice boys with a winning grin, you really should swing by to pick him up for your next book date!Stan is the object of affection in Fifteen, and he has a golden tan, green eyes, brown hair with a dip in it, and a sincere smile.
I love the sweetness and simplicity of this escapism, and I love Fifteen in particular because it's wonderful to read stories about ordinary girls like Jane--and how her attraction to Stan is mostly based on the fact that he's nice.
Lovely.THere are two things I really enjoyed about this book.
First, it's a great slice of life from the mid-fifties, when girls wore dresses and walking five blocks to the movies and stopping by the malt shop was the usual type of date that teenagers had.
The descriptions of Jane's babysitting job were believable and showed different bits of her personality.I loved all of Jane's emotions and her daydreams were cute.
Oh, no what if he says this and I don't have an answer?"Second, even though this book is about teens fifty years ago, the same things are still important, the basic feeling remain the same.
This book was my all time favorite book until I reached high school.
There is so much affection for this book that just seeing the cover makes me smile.
This book was read between 1987-1989, right at the peak of my adolescence.
I wish I could remember the exact time that I read this book, but I do remember re-reading this book several times.
I remember wishing that the boy that I liked would ask me to go steady and give me his ID bracelet.
tried reading it again when I was about 18 and it didn't have the same effect on me.
This book is brilliant and I love everything about it, it is simple and witty, and for a long time what I wanted my life to be like when I was fifteen.
This book is probably the one book that has the most sentimental value for me, it's because the first time I ever read this was when it was read aloud to my sister, Michelle and I when I was about nine years old, it was read to us by our cousin Dominique, or D.D to us.
I read this at the same time as Lynne Rae Perkins's 'Criss Cross.' It was interesting how much more jaded kids in that book were, written five years ago about being fourteen in the seventies.
To give you some examples of 'Fifteen's' age: Jane Purdy runs into her dream boy, Stan Crandall, when he's on his route delivering horsemeat for pets.
On a visit to the Chinatown of the nearby metropolis, one boy makes jokes about 'flied lice,' and Jane can't handle the unfamiliar food.
People still watch 'Leave It to Beaver' (http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/27/art...), for which Cleary wrote an accompanying series of books (no longer in print).
Loved this book. A true classic.
Upon finishing Fifteen, I consider it to be a simple, but powerful story of a young girl (Jane) experiencing love and dating for the first time.
The inner growth that she undergone by the end of the book was remarkable-she learned to accept herself for who she was, and realized she didn't need to change to please other people (not only when it came to dating, but to life in general).
While, in the beginning, Jane only wanted a boy, she gained so much more.
Not only did she end up with a great boyfriend (Stan) at the end, but, more importantly, a sense of self-confidence and fresh insights about herself as an individual, also.
In a world where many teen books focus on infatuation and how hot and sexy everyone looks, it's incredibly refreshing to go back to the way love stories used to be.
I love how Jane doesn't like Stan solely for his looks, or how "dark and edgy" he is.
That's what Jane and Stan's relationship does not feel like.
All the thoughts running through Jane's mind sounded exactly like something I would think!
I was thinking, "I know, right?" the whole way through.Anyone who says that something like this is boring and stupid because Jane doesn't fall completely in love with Stan right off the bat (and experiences "electricity" in his presence.
Walking to the soda shop and hanging out with friends and waiting for the phone to ring.
I like the feel of the time Jane lived in and think of how many other kids could use that type of laid back teenage life now.
Marcy makes Jane feel like plain boring Jane but her relationship with Stan shows Jane she isn’t as boring or as uninteresting as she thinks.
What girl hasn’t waited for the phone to ring with the guy of their dreams on the other end?
It reminds me of the Avalon books I read in junior high where the climactic event was that simple first kiss.
It was nice to read a story about a first crush, self doubt, and simple love.
Even though this book was written back in the fifties, I was still able to enjoy it for what it was worth.
Funny to think that fifteen year olds back then rushed home to wait by the phone and worried about tying up the lines because they didn’t want to miss a call.
In today’s age of cell phones, emails and texting, we sure communicate a lot differently.
So when I finished The Group on Monday I thought Gee I wish I wish I wish I had a wonderful YA to read next, but I was in a hurry to get out of the house and didn't have time to loot the other girls' shelves so I just picked up Einstein's Dreams, which is okay-seeming so far.
But THEN the very NEXT day I received in the mail from my brilliant magical perfect mother THIS!
Like she heard me in a dream from the future and mailed it.
And as soon as I'd read the first page I remembered all these brilliant bits and it was SUCH a perfect thing, to read, right now, just now.
THE SUNDAY FAMILY READThis was Beverly Cleary's first novel for teens, preceding The Luckiest Girl by two years.
" 'Today I'm going to meet a boy,' Jane Purdy told herself, as she walked up Blossom Street toward her babysitting job." She does.
She meets Stan and eventually they do go on dates, have misunderstandings, and it all ends happily.Cleary gets it exactly right from a 1950s teen girl's viewpoint.
The inability to think of anything to say when she and Stan go on their first date.
I wonder what a 15 year old girl would think of this book today.
The story flowed well and engaged the reader with areas of conflict and suspense as Jane developed meaningful relationships with her peers, Stan, and her parents.
I enjoyed reading the story about a young girl beginning high school and finding her first love.
I feel this book is suitable for the young adult reader, probably young women aged ten to thirteen would enjoy this the most.
I can relate to Jane’s experiences as a young freshman starting high school and not knowing what to expect.
This is a great novel for middle school readers who are learning to develop meaningful relationships and transition into young adulthood.
I think I ran across this in my middle school library when I was about fourteen or fifteen and I instantly fell in love with Jane and have never stopped siince.
And even though this book takes place in the 1950's with no cells phones or computers or television, the trials and tribulations of first love are easily identifiable with today.
This book always makes me smile and reminds me of my fifteen year old self.
It's such a short and easy book that I finished it after dinner.
Fifteen by Beverly Cleary was one of my favorite books when I was in jr.
I've read this book so many times.
Even though it was written in 1956 and life was so different then, I could totally relate to the main character, Jane.
The way Jane thinks, the things she worries about, and her insecurities were just like mine when I was a teenager.
It brought back so many funny memories to read this book again, now that I am 20 years past 15.
This book does take you back to when you were just starting to date and nothing else mattered but what you were wearing, what you were driving, and what he thought of you. Just like in life she figures out that most of that really doesn't matter.
Jane’s mother thinks the age difference is inappropriate but nothing can stop these two from being together.Throughout the book the mother starts to like Stan better and is more comfortable with her daughter hanging out with him.
Jane did not know if Stan was attracted to her as well until he asked her out on a date the same day they met.
One thing the reader should understand about the book title is that Jane feels like her whole world has changed because of her relationship with Stan, that is why the title is fifteen.
No one Realy is writing reviews about books they didn't like so I decided to make one.
This book was written a while back I think the 50's.
Which I think is probably why I don't like it because im more of a girl who reads newer book.
I don't recommend this book to girls who are like me and like more "up to date books" because you will get bored just like I did at parts in the story, but if you like old romance kind of things then you should definitely try reading the book fifteen.
Despite the generation gap, it gives me quite a oh-yeah-that's-what-high-school-was-like moment! Some of my own emotions, reading about Jane's fretting and her inside voice and second-guessing - it really took me back to some of that teenage anxiety and wanting to be accepted. A fun, nostalgic read, for any woman who was once fifteen...!
This book has been on my TBR for an absolute age. I don't actually remember where I first heard about it but it's a young adult and wrote and set in the 1950s so had to get my hands on it. Finally got it from the library and read it in one day. It was good. Probably would have enjoyed it so much more when I was about 11 or 12 but thought it was a well thought out and cute coming of age read.
I thought this was one of the old-fashioned term romance stories that I had read as a child, but if it was, I've certainly lost my memory of it! The innocence of this time is to be mourned, and the plot and characters are sweet. The themes of identity and self-acceptance still hold up today, though the setting and time references do not.
The book begins...“Today I’m going to meet a boy, Jane Purdy told herself, as she walked up Blossom Street toward her baby-sitting job.
Mrs. Norton is probably very happy to be going wherever she is going, and hoping to be gone for a very long time this afternoon, perhaps never to return...In days long gone, apparently delivery men just walked unannounced into the homes of their customers to put fresh horse meat dog meals into the fridge.
Yes, The Doggie Diner delivery dispatcher has sleuthed Jane’s name from Mrs. Norton and is CALLING JANE THIS VERY MOMENT ABOUT GOING TO THE MOVIES!Jane says yes.“Swell.” is the response from Stan, in an outdated expression, even for 1957.
Fifteen is a cute and innocent story about a young girl, Jane, and her dating experiences.
I prefer to read more exciting stories and I thought Fifteen was lackluster.
I think that Fifteen would be a good book to use as a comparison between our culture now, and what the culture used to be.
With that being said, I think the story was overall very cute.
I enjoyed reading a story about young love that didn't involve two young people making stupid mistakes.
I am interested in reading more of Cleary so I can get to know her writing style as well.
It is a sweet story of a teenage girl with no “real” problems in her life except that she doesn't have a boyfriend.
It's possible that in the 1950's, when this book was written, the Ms. Cleary was writing at the perspective of an average 15 year old, but the issues that I dealt with as a teenager in the 1990's were not that different than a teenager in the 1950's.
I could see how a 12 or 13 year old girl would like this book.
The ease of Jane's life could be something that many girls would want to aspire to in high school.
Stan Crandell was all she wanted but her confidence made her unsure of Stans feelings for her.I have never read any of Beverly Cleary books in the past but this was definitely a YA book.
The trials of teen life are based around self-understanding and the ways of gaining confidence.
This surprised me because a teen needs that instant interest level from the beginning of the first chapter.
I could relate easily to the level of wanting a boyfriend so bad it hurt.
I always wondered why no boys ever wanted to be my boyfriend.
My confidence level was always challenged when it came to boys.
I found this book to be LOL funny.
I was just laughing to myself the whole time while reading this book.
Ok, so It wasn't readlly suppose to be funny.
Kinda' of a window to the past and to see "somewhat" what it was like to grow up at that time.
Will other kids think they are cool....should they just be themselves.Very entertaining book that is easy to read in one day.
Fifteen is a delightfully corny experience.
The situations taking place and the language used to describe them are right out of a Disney movie, entirely wholesome and innocent.
Still, it's hard not to enjoy something this adorable, even if I did find myself groaning at some of the cliches in the romance.
Jane experiences the same things teens continue to today, though she does so in a very safe and sheltered way, the worst thing that happens is that she impulsively pecks a boy on the mouth.
The thing is though, even though it was a low stakes situation, you feel the impact of it because Jane genuinely regrets the decision.
Beverly Cleary has an easily readable novel for anyone wanting to revisit the dating years of their past.
Even the smallest change to plans can seem like the sky is falling during the first dating adventrues in our lives.
I would recommend this to anyone raising a daughter to review what might be going through her mind when she first starts dating.
I have three daughters and I will need to remember some of what is going on in their minds has nothing to do with what has really happened in their lives.
Just like what was happening to the characters in the book.
My first impression of Beverly Cleary’s Fifteen was that it was an easy book to read. However, it also had you wanting to found out what happened at the end. Jane, Julie, Stan, Marcy, and Buzz remind me of the life any other teenager will or have experienced. Wanting to be popular and having a steady boyfriend or girlfriend to show off or as a high school young lady waiting for that handsome guy to ask you to the high school dance, All of which I can relate to. I believe fifteen is a great Young Adult Literature book.
I thought this book was really cute.
The way the kids talked to each other and to their parents was very refreshing.
Jane Purdy is a sweet girl and even though the language was practically alien compared to how kids talk today I think most girls at her age have many of the same feelings she described in the book.
The shyness and nervousness about boys, the embarrassment of parents and the self consciousness she spoke of are all very normal no matter what year it was.A darling book and a great read even at 40 years old.
