https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79085.Whoever_Fights_Monsters
This book contains graphic descriptions of horrific crimes, photos of dead bodies at crime scenes, plus a lot of information that would be quite useful to killers wanting to fool those hunting them.That being said, I find it slightly disturbing that my copy of this book, which has been so well-read that it is falling to pieces, has come through inter-library loan from my local prison.
Many pages appear to have been attacked by pasta sauce, but I feel that this does not reflect any kind of scholarly annotation.Now, would I get reading experiences of this kind if I bought all my books pristine, or downloaded them onto my hygienic Kindle?

I’ve read a few of these FBI non fiction murder books now, most noticeably Mindhunter: Inside the FBI's Elite Serial Crime Unit, which I found more interesting than this.
Unfortunately I found Robert Ressler not as charismatic as Douglas in his examination and explanation of various cases - although his knowledge is undeniable.
I would have preferred more talk about the various cases rather than Ressler’s personal background too, but understand that it might have been necessary to include it to gain an insight into Ressler’s way of thinking etc.
Overall, this was good but historical, and covers a fair few crimes I hadn’t heard of and examined them in a clean analytical way.
I got this book on ILL through the library, and settled in for a morbid and fascinating read.Robert Ressler was an FBI agent and profiler whose work focused on the minds and psychology of violent criminals.
He gave input on numerous cases and did a lot to bring attention and education to the pathology of murders, and this is his story and his insights of his time working with the likes of Bundy, Gacy, Kemper, and others.Ressler really knows what he's talking about when it comes to violent offenders.
ثم بدأ روبرت يقابل القتلة المتسلسليين في السجون ليستفيد من دراسة حالتهم النفسية وطباعهم والاسباب التي دعت الى تحولهم لقتلة.ثم اصبح روبرت يحاضر في جميع الولايات، في عملاء مكتب التحقيقات وايضاً الشرطة والمحققين الجنائيين وغيرهم وكان حجر زاوية في برنامج فاي كاب، قاعدة بيانات على مستوى الولايات كلها، تضع كل شرطة محلية معلومات عن قضايا قتل غير محلولة، لتستفيد منه الشرطة في ولايات أخرى، ويساعد البرنامج على تسريع القبض على المجرمين.الكتاب مهم جداً للمهتمين بعلم النفس بشكل عام، وعلم النفس الجنائي بشكل خاص.
His claim to fame is that he coined the term "serial killer." During his time at the bureau, he worked on many of the top crime cases and interviewed many of the most notorious humans of the 20th century.
He covers a lot of ground in regards to his career and the cases he created profiles for, but instead of being insightful, it felt disorganized, egocentric, and ungraceful.
I understand that he helped catch many violent criminals, but Ressler pats himself on the back a lot for his profiling work throughout the book.
Audio # 26Beginning in the 70s with the infamous Ted Bundy and ending in the 90s with Jeffrey Dahmer, this is the tale of the burgeoning BSU and the man who made friends with some of the most notorious killers the USA has known. Certain cases are studied and details are provided on how criminal profiles were developed. This book is a bit dated. At the end one realizes Gacy and Dahmer were still alive; Harris had just released Silence of the Lambs. But it still packs a powerful punch. If you choose audio the narration is excellent.
. ." I know Ressler isn't bragging--he and Bill Bass are the only two of these guys I've found thus far who will tell stories on themselves--but there's no way he can explain why he's writing this memoir without sounding like he's bragging: because it's a memoir about what he's done, not who he is.
Much of who he is shows through in what he does, but the emphasis is most definitely on actions and accomplishments--and how can we possibly know why what he's done is important unless he tells us?Ressler comes across better than anyone except Bill Bass.
libro absolutamente brutal. Nos adentramos en la mentalidad de asesinos en serie, y disecciona sus antecedentes familiares, sus sexualidad, los abusos que ha podido sufrir durante su infancia, trazando las causas que pueden llevar a cometer esos crímenes atroces.al final llegas a la conclusión de que se siguen una serie de patrones.me ha parecido muy interesante y no podía dejar de leer.
Whoever Fights Monsters was disturbing as heck but incredibly detailed and well-written, definitely worth reading if you're a fan of true crime, behavioral analysis, police procedural or psychology.
Yo que soy una enamorada del thriller es evidente que me ha encantado, en este caso robert k. ressler nos habla de los asuntos en los que ha llevado a cabo un estudio de perfiles de los asesinos, su infancia, y los estresores que les llevaron a cometer asesinatos en serie.
For a lot of people this will seem weird as the book is very gruesome and terrifying but I just found it pretty damn interesting.Whoever Fights Monsters details Robert Ressler's career with the FBI in his revolutionary quest to fine tune the process of profiling serial killers.
If you're not familiar with Ressler then just know this--he actually coined the term 'serial killer' He was also the main point of reference for Thomas Harris when he was writing Red Dragon and Silence of the Lambs.
A must read for lovers of Thomas Harris or anyone curious to know about inner workings of the FBI and criminal profiling.
A great book from a guy who's always been dead close to the "action" if you like, and knows all the ins and outs of a lot of serial murders.
DOPE!!!!!to all my fellow  criminal minds ,  dateline , and  law & order SVU  junkies out there - this one is for you. (PS totally watching mindhunter now)
In addition to many interesting and morbid details, this book contains (in ch. 4) a profound and insightful ‘deep-dive’ into the inner workings of serial mind. It will be of interest to anyway trying to understand the nature of psychopaths of whatever sort. Ressler also explains the meaning of the term ‘serial killer’, which he coined — not simply a numerical series, but an evolutive series in which fantasy and act develop into an ever expanding loop
First hearing about it on My Favourite Murder, I’d already read and loved Mindhunter, by Robert K Ressler’s sometime partner John Douglas.
Having loved that, I was pleasantly surprised to find that Whoever Fights Monsters was even better.Robert K Ressler was the FBI agent who pretty much started the whole profiling ball rolling, when he took it upon himself to start interviewing some of the worst serial murderers the American justice system has ever caught and incarcerated.
He spends a lot of pages blaming mothers for creating the serial killers he talks about in this book, while he does briefly touch upon the fathers role it is clear that he feels it is the female’s duty and responsibility to raise a successful male child and that the burden of responsibility for these men lie mostly at their hands.He says he is often asked why he never discusses female serial killers and says there has really only been one, Aileen Wuornos.
On the one hand, it was completely fascinating and the author's experience and expertise was a totally new perspective for me.On the other hand, the author is not very likeable from a modern and liberal standpoint.
He places a ton of weight upon confessions extracted under intense questioning, referencing the Central Park Five case with zero skepticism (the book was written in 1991, so you can't blame him for not seeing the future, but it's concerning that he mentioned it as an example of a well-conducted investigation similar to one that he himself was involved with).
Nevertheless, his experiences and knowledge can't be dismissed and I learned a ton about serial killers and profiling.
Creepy and fascinating...the tales told from the perspective of Robert K. Ressler, an FBI agent who tracked down multiple serial killers by profiling them. His interviews and insights into the minds of those convicted of serial killings. Knowing the difference between organized and disorganized serial killers was truly insightful. This took me months to read as the shudder factor was too strong, and I had to look away and read something light in between chapter. Deciding on the rating was difficult because while it was informative (excellent), the subject matter was not (horrible).
While some aspects of this work have become outdated in the twenty-odd years since it was published, it still deserves its spot as one of the foundational works in criminal profiling. Ressler offers almost unsettling levels of insight into criminal minds without any of the sensationalism that creeps into many criminology works.
I've recently discovered I enjoy true crime.
This book is a bit more heavy.
If you enjoy true crime I recommend it highly, otherwise if you are sensitive to violent subjects or have a weak stomach I would skip.
Sometimes this books kinda feels like a vanity project, he seems a bit into himself.
I understand he has to establish his credentials, but sometimes I feel he goes on a bit much.
I was kinda hoping there would be some transcripts, but hearing about the cases and learning more about the killers of the past was extremely interesting to me.
This book encompasses 90% of my fascination with True Crime, as it deals primarily with the psychology of serial killers. Ressler, a real life Will Graham, chronicles his interviews with notorious criminals as well as some ideas about how they turned out that way. My biggest issue with this book was Ressler's ego - there were some sections and anecdotes that were unnecessarily defensive and seemed to serve no greater purpose but to build up Ressler's righteousness. While some concepts are a little outdated (very heteronormative) , this book is still a great read for anyone interested in abnormal psychology.
There was some good information and some interesting stories in this book. But most of it was the author patting himself on the back. That got boring pretty quickly.
This is another of those books that has been on my to-read list for a long time.
As noted above, Robert Ressler has been tracking serial killers with the FBI for 20 years and his experience shows.
Cops catch killers.’ Profiling is just a tool to help them.This book is part auto-biography and part the history of profiling.
The auto-biography part is not extensive, just enough to let you know how Mr. Ressler got into the FBI and why he holds some of the opinions he does.He details the work he initiated in interviewing serial killers and how they differ.
I recommend this book.
Robert Ressler is an expert.Robert Ressler personally met with and interviewed the following notorious murderers & serial killers -Sirhan Sirhan-Charles Manson, including Sandra Good and Lynette "Squeaky" Fromme-Edmond Kemper-Charles "Tex" Watson-Richard Speck-Ted Bundy-David Berkowitz-Monte rissell-Herbert Mullin (the environmentalist fanatic)-John Wayne Gacy-Jeffrey Dahmer-Fred samples....
The author states that he believed that these mentally disabled killers should not receive the death penalty or serve time in a general population prison and that these kinds of people should serve time in a mental institution.
She has also authored a number of books about specific serial killers including Ted Bundy.
this was a pretty fascinating book.
there is a lot of information on individual serial killers and their stories, from the eyes of the man who started the behavioral science unit within the fbi.
although sometimes he writes in a little bit of a big-headed way, the information and stories he presents are very interesting to read.
the main problem is that it is outdated: it was published in 1991, and he talks about things such as jeffery dahmer, wh wasn't killed in prison until 1994, and also about murderers who were let out of jail, and internet research does not say if they ended up murdering again.i certainly recommend it though.
easy and fun to read.
Pretty interesting. About a man that made a study of serial killers (in fact he's the one that coined the phrase). He breaks down the different kinds of killers; organized or disorganized, and what it takes to fit into each catigory. He goes through some case studies and bits of the interviews, how the men will still try to control and manipulate.It's and older book and I found myself checking up on some of the guys and what's happening with them now.
Another excellent book by Robert Ressler. If you want to understand the basics of what makes a serial killer become a serial killer. this is the book for you. No you wont become a profiler after you have finished the book, but you will gain a greater understanding of the phenomenon. I highly recommend this book.
Simply astounding insight in to the mind of a FBI profiler who helped catch guys like Bundy. Yet Ressler is a fascinating individual who although emotionally affected by what he has seen and who he has interviewed still maintains an aura of calm. I can imagine him chatting to a Bundy or a Dahmer as he has discussing murder rather like you would be chatting to a friend. Awesome
I am obsessed with true crime, so the stories in this book are very interesting! However the writer spends the entire book stroking his ego, being a chauvinist and taking credit for basically everything good the FBI has ever done. Oh and he tries to take credit for Silence of the Lambs! Plus I really hate the word 'Quantico' and he uses it ALOT!
