https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8952.Killers_of_the_Dawn
THIS IS NOT a whole bookIt's like someone ripped out the middle of the story and threw a cover around it.
The beginning was pretty much non-existent (essentially, the "beginning" was book 8) and the ending was another big fat TO BE CONTINUED...
How hard would it be to make these books a bit longer so we don't continuously run into this?
The whole fake-out just yanked my emotional cord like a yo-yo.
This ending made continuing with the series nearly insurmountable.Audiobook CommentsRead by Ralph Lister - and he did a pretty fab job of it.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
There is a prologue to remind you where Allies of the Night ended and then you're right into the story.
I truly believe these books would be much better if combined into longer complete novels instead of the episodes they are now.
I don't see the point in sitting down for an hour to simply read the next episode.
Let me choose how much I want to read instead of force feeding me little chunks of your story.
The latest reveal was like "well duh who didn't see that coming" and what's the point of read books like that?
I had a hunch from the 8th book that Steve was the Vampaneze Lord, but I set that theory aside when he was said to be a friend.
But in the ending, this theory came back to me as a full-fledged fact, and slapped me in the face.The worst, and most epic part, was when Mr. Crepsley died.
For a page or two Darren fooled me into thinking that everything was alright, that they were saved......and then in the next chapter he said.
I'm not even sure if I can continue the series now - that dude was one of my favorite characters, second to Darren.
استیو لئوپارد ماهیت حقیقی خود را آشکار می کند و شکست می خورد اما ارباب شبه واره ها فرار می کند و ... ا. شربیانی
NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOODARREN SHAN WHY MUST YOU DO THIS TO ME?HURT ME LIKE THISAND MESS WITH MY FEELINGUGH
اینم از این:دیبدترین فصل دنیا فصل 20 این کتابه... وای خداااا. شاید 20 بار خوندمشو هر دور میخونمش دلم میخواد گریه کنم:| لارتتتتتتتتتتتتتتن T__T
My heart is broken but I have to admit it... it was so good.
Co to, kurňa, na tom konci bylo??? PS: Já to tušila!

First of all I thought they were being all original when they didn't do the predictable thing and make Darren's sworn enemy show up as the leader of the bad guys.
His sworn enemy was only a protector of the leader of the bad guys.
I thought it was cool they were breaking the mold and that the author had tricked me.
That's just bad form, man.
Bad form.
OKAY THIS BOOK WAS A FUCKING MISTAKE WHY IN FUCKING HELL WOULD YOU KILL OF LARTEN??
Okay now that's been said, when the plot twist took place there was a part of me that said 'wowww whatttt' and also 'I KNEW IT I CALLED IT THE MOMENT STEVE JOINED THE STORY AGAIN' but mostly 'MR CREPSLEY DIED FOR NOTHING...
WHY WHY WHY WOULD YOU DO THIS TO ME??' Still I'm giving a 5 star review, why one might ask.
I have no fucking idea this book was one big dissapointment plotwise but I guess because I love drama and it made me feel things.
This book was fantastic until they killed off Larten Crepsley!!! WHY would they kill of one of the main characters???? I am pissed beyond believe, very disapointed in the entire series now, and I don't know if I can even finish reading the final book's. I'm very upset by the ending, and I can only hope that I'll get over it and read on to find out that he somehow come's back to life or something, but I doubt that's gonna happen, can't believe the author killed him...
This is yet another action packed book in the series.Again there are many twists and turns, more deception for you to work your way through. There’s also shocking emotional moment for you to put up with as events unfold. There is development in characters and plot, the story jumping forward a lot, heading you in the direction towards where the story ends.
This one starts off just where we left off last time where the vampaneze gave them a head start to r
CALLED THAT ENDING/TWIST SEVERAL BOOKD AGO I FREAKING KNEW IT THE WHOLE TIMEThe fake out over Crepsleys death was really annoying. Like I can't believe the author did that. I was very ready to see crepsley die and then he lived But just kidding he is actually dead sorry aaaagh
4,5⭐
i think that the book in somewhat disgusting and scary.
Had me fooled there for a minute. But of course I was right about who the vampaneze lord is.
WritingSince this book was mostly action and fast paced things, Shan’s writing really had a chance to shine.
I also have to applaud Shan on the little hints he drops throughout Allies of the Night and Killers of the Dawn that are important to the plot twist at the end of the book.
I was sad that Darren lost them and quite shocked that the character had died, but their death didn’t mean all that much to me emotionally because as the reader I didn’t feel as connected to them.Things I Didn't LikeI was actually quite pleased with Killers of the Dawn.
They are out numbered and they have no way out but to fight there way out Mr. Crepsly (Darrens mentore) has put his life on the line to fight the vampanise lord who was whaching the battle from a ledge a ways away.
Then Vancas brother proposes a deal Mr. Creaplsy will fall and Steves life will be spared along with Darren and Vancas and everyone else in the cavern.
Darren has changed a lot since being blooded as a prince of the vampire clan about six or so years ago back at Vampire Mountain when he warned everyone about the Vampaneze who were hiding out in the tunnels of the mountain.
Since being blooded as a Prince, Darren has felt less guilt with killing Vampaneze.
The setting at the beginning of the book, Darren is back in the tunnels of blood with Mr. Crepsley and old friend Harkat Mulds.
Oh Darren Shan how you break my heart with these books! Even though I thought I was prepared for the series to end, even knowing the plight of the hero... I was still not ready for this book! Summary: Outnumbered, outsmarted and desperate, the hunters are on the run, pursued by the vampaneze, the police, and an angry mob. With their enemies clamoring for blood, the vampires prepare for a deadly battle. Is this the end for Darren and his allies? What I liked about this book:  SPOILER ALERT: THIS
Oh Darren Shan how you break my heart with these books!
Even though I thought I was prepared for the series to end, even knowing the plight of the hero...
Losing loved ones is expected in a vampire book.
You feel it deep in your heart and watching Larten Crepsley fall made it very difficult for me to devour this book.Darren Shan has an ability to make you feel what his main character feels in such a battle-torn way that you not only feel the toll of the battle on your soul, you feel its repercussions for a long time.
As prophesied by Mr. Tiny, the three vampire hunters—Darren, Mr. Crepsley, and Vancha March—must defeat the Lord of the Vampeneze in one of four potential encounters.
There's also several surprises and a few sad endings in store in this one....Killers of the Dawn picks up right where the previous book, 
With this series, there's sometimes be a little break in action between books; but at other times, you're left at a cliffhanger and the next book picks up right where the previous one left off, often at the very same scene.
The book starts with Darren and his friends quickly leaving the underground passages to escape the Vampaneze and vampets.
Debbie has been taken hostage by R.V., Vancha tortures the vampet back at their base and finds out that only the Vampaneze Lord can kill the three hunters.
Crepsley kills the Vampaneze Lord, but Steve jumps onto his back and causes him to fall over the side, where he is hanging over the flaming stakes with Steve.
Since he believes the Vampaneze lord is dead, he agrees to kill himself and stop holding on to Steve in exchange for a free passage for the rest.
What a plot twist. Crepsley dies. Steve is the Lord. RV loses his hands again. Great story. Not-so-scary cover.
We are also reintroduced to Chief Inspector Alice Burgess who, like Debbie, seems to take the whole vampires are real thing too well.
Besides the characters, the only thing I had a problem with was when Shan was describing the pit the vampires had to cross.
I was completely unable to envision it my mind's eye.On the other hand, Shan continued to create remarkable surprises.
I must say Shan continues to write an interesting story.
After all, I still wanted to continue even though I clearly had issues with this trilogy.
I think this may be the book I love the most in the series so far, but also the one I hate the most.
He certainly doesn't mind killing off his characters, but why is it always the ones I like the most?Now I've dropped that bombshell, I will explain, the death doesn't happen until right near the end, but I knew it was coming for a couple of chapters.
I didn't want it to end.
I haven't said it before, but I really like Harket and with every book he develops more and grows so much.
If only that ending hadn't have gone like that!
Darren Shan, hunting the Vampaneze in a city, finally finds what he’s looking for. He starts to hunt them down, hoping to strike the Vampaneze Lord down. But his quest is nowhere as simple as he thinks.  “Killer of the Dawn” was a book that made me want to keep reading the series. The previous two books in the series weren’t very satisfying for me, and I was considering moving on to another series. Thankfully I gave this book a chance, otherwise I would have never read the remaining books, whic
Darren Shan, hunting the Vampaneze in a city, finally finds what he’s looking for.
He starts to hunt them down, hoping to strike the Vampaneze Lord down.
“Killer of the Dawn” was a book that made me want to keep reading the series.
The previous two books in the series weren’t very satisfying for me, and I was considering moving on to another series.
Thankfully I gave this book a chance, otherwise I would have never read the remaining books, which I ended up enjoying.
“Killers of the Dawn” was enjoyable by itself.
That is why I would give this book 5 stars.
I just finished reading this book yesterday and what a twist for horrors it was.
Still although, it pains me to see such a death I continue to read to the very last word.
I guess people may say I get to attached to books and the characters are not real but when you read such a long series as this how can you not get attached?Forever I will be in woe for the death of such a brilliant characters, however, I can not say to stop reading this series.
I will continue on even if I must read it through tears.
After the betrayal in the last book at the hands of Darren's best friend, Steve, Darren, Mr. Crepsley, Harkat, and Vancha are framed as murders, who were committed by the vampaneze.
And Now on the run from both the human police and vampaneze; it might just be the end!
Mr Crepsley come face to face with the Vampaneze Lord and ends up in an epic battle with him and both die.
After the battle Steve tells Darren the truth, he whispers that he's the Vampaninse Lord!
