https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116054.Winter_Solstice
This is one of my favourite books of all time. The writing is fantastic, the characters so well penned that I came to care about them, and when I put the book down, I wanted to continue to know these people, which to me is a good indication that the book is top notch. Scotland came to life for me here, and I really wanted to go there at christmas time and experience Scotland at that period. I have read it several times and will continue to pick it up on occasions.
I just finished listening to this book again.
I adore Rosamunde Pilcher's world, and I think this is her very best book.
I mourned when I found out that she doesn't intend to write another book.
Without a doubt, Rosamunde Pilcher is one of my favorite authors.
Except for Winter Solstice, my favorite of her books are the short story collections and tiny novels.
The other novels are worth reading, but not my favorite.
Read again - November 200912/5/13 - I finished this again.
Loved it just as much this time.
12/12/14 - Listened again.
Still love it.
Parts of it are very sweet, and I’m yearning now to spend a Christmas in the snowy north of Scotland, but the author’s lack of moral clarity was so off-putting that it spoiled the book.
It’s as though she couldn’t possibly be so judgmental as to condemn the stupid choices (like adultery and drunk driving) that cause much of the misery in the book.
Not all of it is that bad, but it’s still a waste of a great setting and some really charming characters, a few of whom I’d come to care about in spite of the mediocre writing.
I love Rosamunde Pilcher. I love everything she's written. Most people rave about The Shell Seekers, and while I love that book as well, it's not my most favorite. Winter Solstice is delightful and thought-provoking. Pilcher's narratives are pure prose. You find yourself immersed in the world of Scottish tweeds and cottages and hospitality. She captures the intense feelings of grief, and the hope that comes when you learn to love again.
This is probably my all time favorite Pilcher book. I love her writing and regularly return to reread old favorites, but Winter Solstice had become a yearly ritual for me. Like most of Pilcher's other novels, this is not an action packed book, but instead is a sweetly told story of people who come together to form an unlikely family.
She writes from the perspective of several characters so by the end of the book you feel you know all of them.One of the nicest things about her books is the way she neatly wraps up the story to make a happy ending for everyone.
Now I don't want every single book I read to end so tidily, but sometimes it is just what the doctor ordered.
At the end of this book (& the other two I have read), I was left with a feeling of satisfaction and yes, I admit it, a bit of weepy joy at the way the story ends.
Seemed a little redundant in places this time but didn't affect how much I enjoyed Elfrida's and Oscar's lovely story.
Note: Pilcher paints these two people as very old.
That's not old!First read 2011: I must give Rosamund Pilcher's books a 5 star rating.
They are set in the United Kingdom (England, Scotland) so that immediately makes it a favorite read.
Having been to England twice I can return there in her books.
This book is another wonderful story of Elfrida and her friend Oscar and all the drop-in guests they get for Christmas.
I would love to live in Rosamund Pilcher's world.
I read this shortly after it was published and don't really remember the story so am so glad I decided to re-read. It was absolutely delightful and the perfect time to pick it up! I could see where this was headed early on but it was the slow ride to get there that made it so special. The cast of characters, mis-matched and thrown together, works so well that I really would enjoy a sequel but know that is not going to happen.
Yet in this brief time, Rosamund Pilcher has set a story filled with light and warmth.The book is classic Pilcher, full of detail and texture, housed in quirky old buildings and peopled with obliging neighbors, wet dogs, unexpected guests and a cast of characters we can grow to love.This is not a book to be rushed through.
They will come on you unexpectedly, those moments in the book, and they are what makes this book, and others by Ms. Pilcher, the books you remember, and reread, and leave you wishing you could know what these characters, these people, will be doing the rest of their lives.Winter Solstice, no matter what time of year you read it, is a true Christmas gift from Ms. Pilcher, to all her fans.
I needed a go-to book, and I remembered that my GR friend Claude had recently read a few books by Rosamunde Pilcher, and had enjoyed them very much.
Since our reading tastes are usually very similar, I thought I would try one.
I’m glad I did!I love how all of these characters treated each other with such civility.
I miss such courtesy in this day and age.
This was a feel-good story all the way.
It would be an excellent choice to read at Christmastime… or any other time for that matter.
Thank you Claude, for reminding me about this author.
The kind of book we expect from Rosamunde Pilcher.
Not a lot really happens and there is no doubt that everyone will end up exactly where they want to be however unlikely that is.
I did enjoy this book but it was far far too wordy.
There were large sections which were really not needed and in the end I found myself skimming paragraphs in order to get back to the actual story line.
It is a "safe" book.
One where you know that all will be well with the world in the end.
There is a limited number of books that I have read and reread many times. Re-reading this book as the Christmas Season begins every year has become part of My Christmas Traditions. Love the locations chosen and the images they stir up in my mind. Scotland, trains, older heroine. Have it on my iPhone and iPad. Want to know it is always at my fingertips,
This is basically a great big warm hug of a book!
I read it every year on the run up to Christmas and every time I open it's pages it's like revisiting old friends.
However it just so happens that there are a few people who end up taking up residence in the spare rooms of the big house over Christmas and it's a far cry from Oscar's original plans.
You get the feeling that these are real people and they behave like real people would.
It’s a warm, comfortable story of people who adrift at the end of a relationship, who find one another and begin anew.
I can see why so many people enjoy this story as an annual holiday comfort read.
I read this for The 16 Tasks of the Festive Season, and I will be using it as the Book Joker for Square 9 December 21st: Winter Solstice is the longest night of the year in the northern hemisphere, also known as Yaldā Night in Iran.
The same day is the summer solstice in the southern hemisphere, giving them the longest day of the year.
This was the PERFECT book to read during the holiday season. It was cozy and heartfelt and poignant! To me it felt like Kate Morton without the mystery. It was atmospheric and the descriptions of place and time (and food!) were so rich. And I fell in love with the characters (perhaps minus Carrie who I did not find to be as sympathetic as she was meant to be). I felt like I was spending my Christmas with this group of battered, but big-hearted people. It was a wonderful Christmas-time story.
What a lovely, feel-good book to read during the holiday season!
I’ve had this book on my shelf for years.
I’m actually glad I saved it because it was made for reading right now.
A delightful wintertime tale that warmed my heart as much as the tea (and coffee) and fireplace scenes warmed the various characters in this story.If you’re in need of a peaceful, heart warming read that does not cross the line into sappy I think you’re in good hands with this one.
if I had read my own review above, I don’t think I’d want to read the book.
I think I’ve failed!
Now I’m off to make some tea.
This book really disappointed me. While the writing was fun and entertaining and did feel like a holiday (all the cozy cottages and teas and twinkling things), I felt icky inside when I was done with it. The author seems to glorify adultery, divorce and sex outside marriage as long as there's an "understandable" excuse (ie: done in the name of "love"). If you've read the Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe - this, to me, is Turkish Delight.
I am only 2 months late in my annual re-read. Worst part is, their will never be a follow-up to the story.This time I read my hard back with my tablet beside me. Googling up places, people, paintings and of course playing Ode to Joy which was the hymn I requested at my wedding. Dh's Aunt played the organ at funeral dirge speed in their Anglican church and my Mennonite relatives sang it at full speed and in 4 part harmony. She had to keep up.Will put it away... for next year.
Το διάβασα πριν χρόνια και μου άρεσε πολύ!Τώρα ήρθε η ώρα να ταξιδέψει σε άλλη βιβλιοθήκη.Να τα μοιράζετε τα βιβλία σας, να ταξιδεύουν.Μην τα κρατάτε αιχμάλωτα

Pilcher definitely has a formula, but the cosy and 'heart-warming' qualities of her novels are undeniable.
I adored the sweet romance between the older characters, Oscar and Elfrida, and the friendship between 14 year old Lucy and and her champion Rory, but the rebound relationship between Sam and Carrie was not quite believable - and I could never really warm to Carrie as a character.
Pilcher creates some really wonderful characters - and the 62 year old Elfrida is very much in the mood of Penelope, from The Shell Seekers - but sometimes I think her characterisations do lack nuance.
Opening: Before Elfrida Phipps left London for good, and moved to the country, she made a trip to Battersea Dogs Home, and returned with a canine companion.At 598 pages in hardback this would appear to be a doorstop however it moves along at a quick lick.3* September (high 3)3* Winter Solstice (low 3)-------------------------------------AB A Week in DecemberCR December3* Winter Solstice--------------------------------------2* A Country ChristmasTR A Killer's Christmas in Wales 5* A Child's Christmas in Wales (re-visit for nth time)
My words are inadequate in describing what a beautiful story this book represents! This book is just perfect for the Christmas season and it is set in Scotland. And even if you don't agree with all of the characters' actions, the story, as a whole, is about grieving and healing, hope, forgiveness, faith, beauty, and the power of love and friendship. The characters are represented very realistically and it is almost as if you were part of the story itself, and in some ways, I wish I was. I highly, highly recommend it.
I love the settings & the characters in Pilcher's book. She has a knack for making the rather ordinary (Oscar, the church organist who remained a bachelor until late mid-life) seem unique & the rather non-conventional (Elfrida, the London actress) seem cozy, warm & motherly. Set mostly in Scotland, w/ an assortment of extended family members.

This is a wonderful book and I would recommend it to everyone.
This is a charming, albeit long at nearly 600 pages, novel full of lovable odd characters, a freezing Scottish winter, and lots of friendship and love.
Circumstances change and much like in real life these characters keep going and try to find their place in things.
Others have criticized Pilcher's moral code with the drunk-driving and infidelity threads in this novel, but I think Pilcher probably feels much like I do - kind of a live and let live attitude.
If I had one criticism of this novel it would be that there are far too many polo-necked sweaters in this book.
Kind of like a favorite relative.
Pilcher is a master craftsman in this novel.
Each chapter shifts to the perspective of another character and rotates this way throughout.
Often the same scenario is repeated through the eyes of a different character.
I found it fascinating to see the different perspectives of the same event.
It was also interesting to see the main character through the eyes of each of the other players in the story.
What a clever way to make a character truly dimensional.
Pilcher allows the reader to really get to know each character.
I have read many of her novels to date and this and Coming Home really stand out.
Just ordinary people in a cozy setting doing cozy things.
There were several points when I thought I'd just set the book aside to read something a bit more actiony.
But honestly, it was very _restful_ and a great read for a rainy week in early spring.
It was nice to just read the details of a few people having a Christmas vacation.
After endless books about Pursuing One's Great Destiny Across the Continents and hunting for magical swords and books and talismans I rather enjoyed reading about the way they prepared a party for the little Scottish village at Christmas.
