https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53580.The_Going_to_Bed_Book
Getting a nap in the morning is more adventurous than going to bed in the night!
I should pass these along to another parent, but I am hopeful I will have a chance to read them to another generation of children.
I don’t generally add the books I read to Owen as part of my challenge, but I think I’ve read this at least 50 times this year, so on it goes. Plus, he loves it.
I love the silliness of this book.
Maybe it's the French literature major in me, recalling Ionesco and the theater of the absurd....I love that the animals are on a boat.
As random as it seems, it kind of makes me think of Noah's ark (even though they aren't in pairs).
I love that when you think they're going upstairs to bed, they're really going up to exercise.
Just something about the fact that you assume you know what's coming, only to turn the page and see something completely different!
I love rocking my son in my arms to the rhythm of the rocking boat when we read that last page.
My two-year-old son and I have settled into a bedtime routine where we read Goodnight Moon and then we read this book. He loves when the animals brush and brush and brush their teeth and he loves when the boat rocks and rocks and rocks the animals to sleep but his favorite part is when they all go up...to exercise! That page never fails to get a belly laugh out of him.
"And when the moon is on the rise,they all go up to exercise!"Really fun bedtime book! I love the funny illustrations and rhyming text. My favorite illustrations are the exercising ones... although like many others, I wonder why they are exercising right before bed; I think it makes the book even funnier though. This is definitely one that is worth being read again and again!First read: 8/24/15
We can't get enough of Sandra Boynton's illustrations. Just so cute with the different animals that my kids like to guess and the rhyming is fun too. A little silly with the animals doing things like exercising before bed, but it just adds to the allure. My 5 yr old is a little past it, but enjoyed it immensely when he was younger, and now enjoys reading it to his younger brothers. A must have for any Boynton fan!
I could not relate to the characters' motivations to exercise just before bed in their pajamas.
A must for every new parent. Our family has it memorized. We love this book!
Sandra Boynton is always fun to read to my daughter.
This one is a gem, and probably more complex than the title would make you believe. In this book, the animals go downstairs to exercise shortly after taking their baths and brushing their teeth. Some guy from the New Yorker said this was a commentary on the upside down world your life turns into post-parenthood; to me, it sounded a bit closer to my teenage bouts of compulsive overexercise. Either way, this is a dark one -- also, George likes it.
The pages were quite thick and durable and there were pictures and rhymes. It encouraged going to bed, of which I am a fan.
One of our favorite bedtime books.
Wish it were a little bit longer!
The story is about various animals that watch the sunset, brush teeth, take bathes before going to sleep.
it shows things that kids can do before going to sleep.
It can help with children's routines before going to sleep by watching the animals do things like scrub the tub and so on.
It is simple and quick to read making it perfect for a bed time story to read to children that are hard to put to sleep.
This is a timeless bed time story that every home library should have for their kids to help fall asleep.
My mother bought this board book for my son a few days before he was born and I'll never be able to review it with even the pretense of objectivity because of that.
He was never able to read it, but it was the first book his little sister fell in love with (admittedly, she was most interested in it as something to chew on at first).
The rhyming text and animal illustrations are great attention-holders, and it is now one of the books that she likes to "read" by herself.
The size is perfect for little hands, especially as younger toddlers are learning to manipulate pages.
Sandra Boynton has written and illustrated around thirty children's books in her career. The Going to Bed Book is set on an ark (no sign of Noah, though) and follows the animals' bed time routine.The animals watch the sunset before deciding to go to bed. Along with the usual things of taking a bath and brushing teeth, there is also night time exercise under the light of the moon.Of course the book has Boynton's unique illustrations. Harriet and Sean enjoy her silly looking animals doing the same sort of things they do before night (except for the moonlight exercises).
I'd like to think I was sleep deprived when I read this, that's the only reason I laughed so hard when I read the exercise bit. It's fun book to read and the absurdity should also entertain the older reader long enough for the little one to calm down and sleep... Unless they're like my nephew and get up to join the animals in exercise! It's sweatier book than I first thought and any kid would love it.
I received this book at my baby shower from my husband's godmother who is very special to us both. My sister told me her daughter loves any book by Sandra Boynton, so I was thrilled to have received one of her books. I had been reading to my baby bump and discovered what a sweet book this is about bedtime routines. I believe my baby is going to love this book once he/she is here in less then 10 weeks!
This one came up on my GR recommendations. I followed-up because I have enjoyed some of Sandra Boynton's other books. But NOT this one.They all took a bath together in one big tub?!? And no one finds that even a little bit creepy? Also, why are they exercising after they bathe? Should they not exercise first? And why exercise right before bed? That seems to make no sense, exercising immediately before bed but after bathing in the creepy everyone in it together tub.Yick.
My one-year-old son loves this book. Every night we read him several books before bedtime and he often chooses this book as his last book. It's got silly characters and it's pretty fun and whimsical. Many children's books try to be poetic with silly little rhymes and a predictably rigid structure, but I find very few of them to actually be poetic. This book is the exception.
Another cute Sandra Boynton book, which include rhyme, rhythm, and bedtime procedures. The only thing that doesn't make sense is that the author has the character's exercising after their bath and before bed. Who does that?!?
We also do our exercises in our pajamas.
This is simple and quick book, but he loves the ending and asks to read it over and over and over....he likes several of Sandra Boynton books.
My son LOVED this book. It's been a bedtime staple for at least a year now :) Cute.
Read: board book (owned)I've read this book approximately 138,426 times to my son. Needless to say, it's a favorite Sandra Boynton book. It's a cute story about getting ready for bed.
BUT WHY DO THEY EXERCISE?!Sandra Boynton is trying to sow the seeds of bedtime anarchy.
I dont even remember when I stopped actually reading and would just recite blindly from memory as I turned the pages for him.
The book has a wonderful flow with a cute rhyming pattern that is surprisingly not as obnoxious as you think it would be after this many reads.
Then on the second page where "Now everyone goes below" the pig (having been below deck the whole time) is already at the bottom of the stairs.
9 - Rather than just black as the light is turned, I would rather have my son see an illustration of the sleeping animals being all tucked in and whatnot.
This is a silly rhyme book with goofy animals on their way to bed.
It is the perfect quick silly story just before you put your little one to bed.
It’s one of his favorite bedtime books and I usually read it 3 or 4 times before I put it away to tuck him in.
So, again, it’s perfect for the little one who tries to prolong their bedtime.
It’s a great book for children who love animals and rhyming words.
The book reads “serious silliness for all ages” and I agree!
Our family loves this book and it's regularly used as part of the bedtime reading routine (and is my husband's favorite to read).
I would read it to my son when he was pretty small (four or five months old) and it's still held up now that he's 1 1/2.
(This is our most worn out board book and we got it new.)Why do we like it so much?
It's got a good length and flow to it.
The topic is perfect for bedtime and it's easy to read out loud.
This is our favorite Boynton book.
