https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7339.The_Monsters_and_the_Critics_and_Other_Essays
Tolkien was a pretty devastatingly smart guy, who didn't only create a world and languages of his own, but was a serious and intelligent scholar who knew many languages, modern and archaic, and had a wide interest in different literatures and mythologies.
The volume also contains an essay on Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, his famous essay 'On Fairy Stories', an essay on 'English and Welsh', an essay about the invention of languages, and his valedictory address, given when he left Oxford.
They're not dry at all, but warm and passionate as Tolkien was warm and passionate, and of course, intelligent.
I wish had Professor Tolkien around to pick his brain, but this book is an adequate substitute, and, I think, indispensable for anyone who teaches Beowulf. Tolkien's titular essay is largely responsible for changing the attitude toward Beowulf in literary circles. The epic was considered important for what it could teach us of the Anglo-Saxons, but it was Tolkien who convinced the literati that it had literary merit, too. Highly recommended to fans of Beowulf.
Prior to the delivery and publication of these lectures in 1936 the poem of Beowulf was mined by scholars looking to find information on Germanic antiquities, some for nationalistic reasons and others out of a genuine interest in the past, but few explored the poem for its own literary merits.
Major publications on the poem included works by Axel Olrik and R.W. Chambers, while both books made vast explorations into the origin of the legends and comparisons between Scandinavian material, neither attempted any analysis of the poems poetic value.
Já zásadně odborné knihy nehodnotím, ale kdybych hvězdičkovala nebo bodovala, tak si Netvoři a kritikové zaslouží vysoké hodnocení. Přednášky profesora Tolkiena o Beowulfovi a Gawainovi mi vyloženě bodly. :)
5 Stars because I'm biased on anything Tolkien. :) I skipped the Beowulf and Sir Gawain and the Green Knight essays because I haven't read the stories yet and I want to read them before I read Tolkien analyze them.On Fairy Stories is an excellent essay that I enjoyed thoroughly. The Valedictory Address was a bit tricky to follow but maybe when I read more about what Tolkien did when he was working at University it will make more sense. 5 Stars because it's Tolkien and he writes very well.
The title essay (still going for best title of a critical essay) together with 'On Translating Beowulf' capture that poem, at least if you are a romantic like me. Gloriously written and elegiac in mood, these may rob your heart, and perhaps you can cheat, read them instead of Beowulf and yet understand.
His first day of workshop, when we were all asked to go around the table and state our writing philosophies in a nutshell, Jason said he wanted to "say something old in a new way." Our professor heckled him for this, said something like, are you serious?
Anyway, I spent a lot on the copies and then Jason said about all the reading I'd given out, "That's so messed up," to which I laughed and said, "You don't have to read it, you know."...My presentation ended up getting rushed and kind of sucking--this workshop was not fertile ground for it anyway--but when I got to the quote above from Tolkien, I remember saying, "And Jason Wenger, this one's for you," and going on to read that line vindicating his writing philosophy about the fusion of the old and the new.
What I found interesting when I first read the title essay some 25 years ago, is it's connection to another book on my list "Mark As Story".
The critical perspective and techniques that Rhoads and Michie bring to Mark are very similar to what Tolkien was espousing almost 50 years previously.
If all you know about Tolkien is that he wrote some quaint books that they made movies out of I would strongly recommend exploring these essays.
His thought and his philosophy ranged much, much more widely than the fantasy of the Lord of the Rings and his academic love of philology.
An extraordinary collection of Tolkien essays from the 1930s to 1950s.
Make no mistake, these addresses were serious presentations to serious, and qualified audiences; which the casual reader is not.His essays on Beowulf and Sir Gawain and the Green Knight changed my perception of those works.
His essay on translating Beowulf adds to my appreciation of the challenges of both translators and readers of translated texts.
His On Fairy tales I have lauded elsewhere, was it appears also in The Tolkien Reader.
The essays on English and Welsh and A Secret Vice were enjoyable and informative, though the latter and the closing Valedictory Address strike me as filler.A very good, if difficult read.
5 stars but only for people interested in either Beowulf, Tolkien, or Bilbo (if you read it in his voice, this essay is quite endearing).
*review to be posted*
They take work while reading, but the effort is definitely worth it.And by the way, I have tons of saved quotes from On Fairy Stories, like:"Faerie is a perilous land, and in it are pitfalls for the unwary and dungeons for the overbold.""The realm of fairy-story is wide and deep and high and filled with many things: all mannethe of beasts and birds are found there; shoreless seas and starts uncounted; beauty that is an enchantment, and an ever or sent peril; both joy and sorrow sharp as swords.
I read this in Icelandic. Tolkien wrote an essay in the 1930s about Bjólfskviða which belongs to the Nordic literature. Tolkien actually never came to Iceland but despite that he did have the ability to read Icelandic fluently. From this source Bjólfskviða he was most likely having inspiration to write the Lord of the Rings. Still Bjólfskviða is written as poetry about a viking time bravery and fights with dragons. Ég las þetta lærdómsrit á einu kvöldi eða svo. Bókin er 104 bls hvað varðar lesmá
I read this in Icelandic.
Tolkien wrote an essay in the 1930´s about Bjólfskviða which belongs to the Nordic literature.
Tolkien actually never came to Iceland but despite that he did have the ability to read Icelandic fluently.
From this source Bjólfskviða he was most likely having inspiration to write the Lord of the Rings.
Still Bjólfskviða is written as poetry about a viking time bravery and fights with dragons.
Ritgerð Tolkiens um Bjólfskviðu er hins vegar í þyngri kantinum og gott teldi ég fyrir lesandann að vera búinn að lesa Bjólfskviðu rétt áður en farið er útí að að lesa þessa bók.
E sembra davvero di essere seduti in un’aula dell’università di Oxford, con di fronte un simpatico stregone, dalla battuta sempre pronta, che ci vuole mostrare gli ingredienti segreti delle sue pozioni, che ci racconta i retroscena delle sue creazioni, il backstage di un mondo creato “a sua immagine e somiglianza”, una complessa struttura di linguaggio, di suoni, di immagini, di personaggi, e infine di storie, concepita per essere dotata di una vita propria, potente e reale, nella magia in essa trasfusa e al tempo stesso da essa emanata.
Być może zawinił tu częściowo tłumacz, ale w dużej mierze skomplikowanie wykładów wynika nie tyle z ich treści, co struktury.I tak dwa pierwsze eseje/wykłady, te dotyczące Beowulfa ("Potwory i krytycy" oraz "O tłumaczeniu") są stosunkowo przyjemne w lekturze, jeśli tylko zna się w miarę poemat - a nawet bez tej wiedzy wiele można sobie dopowiedzieć.
Jest zdecydowanie najmniej ciekawym fragmentem książki, ale ma przynajmniej lepszą strukturę i konkretniejszą treść niż "Tajony nałóg"...Inny słowy - tylko dla fanów Tolkiena, lub tematyki poematów staroangielskich - gdyż to właśnie eseje które tym się zajmują są najlepsze.
I enjoyed the last three essays in this book much more than the first few.
The last few essays were much more interesting to me.
I enjoyed the historical linguistics that Tolkien employed to discuss Welsh and English, and the confession of his "Secret Vice" of creating languages was entertaining.
I recommend this book as a whole to fans of Tolkien only.
The first part, I recommend to scholars of Old English and Middle English Lit. If you enjoy languages and bureaucratic debates within collegiate institutions, I recommend the last few essays.Overall, a satisfying read for someone who misses being in a classroom.
I picked this for the title essay, "Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics," and also the one on Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.
With the other essays in this collection, there was always Some interesting stuff, but also a fair lot that was either beyond my understanding (especially the case with "On Translating Beowulf," although, having just read Tolkien's newly released Beowulf, I really did enjoy this one) or simply not of much interest to me (particularly the "Valedictory Address").
Still, the good definitely outweighed the uninteresting here -- those top three essays are excellent.
Tolkien's "The Monsters and the Critics" was a speech he gave when he received one of his academic chairs. The speech single highhandedly revived the discipline of Anglo Saxon studies from a dying thing to something we are still studying. This speech presents one of the few times the author used allegory.
As of yesterday I am a proud owner of this boxed set! Thank you local charity shop.It is a wonderful collection of his shorter, lighter tales. Whilst still having lots of depth. Tree and leaf is particularly wonderful.
Fantastic essays, Tolkien's love for languages and myths permeates through all of them. I specially liked "Welsh and English".
It has been dismissed as such by atheists and skeptics for centuries, but they're right - only the point is not that fairy-tales as such are false, stories of "things that can't and have never happened", but that fairy-tales are infinitely more true than stories in which the natural world is the only world, and "reality" is limited to the sort of everyday occurrences that we generally observe, that our lives mostly consist of.I shouldn't wholly neglect to mention "The Monsters and the Critics", an essay that is essential reading if you've ever read Beowulf, heard it lectured upon or spoken of in academic circles, or had contact with it any form.
Per tacere, nevvero, sul fatto che “Il Signore degli Anelli” fosse stato preso come materiale base per campi giovanili del movimento della destra, un po’ come “Il libro della giungla” dagli scout (solo che gli scout erano – storicamente – di sinistra, anche se Kipling non lo era affatto, nel senso che lui era convinto della superiorità dell’uomo bianco...).
E così il Tolkien filologo (cioè, come spiega egli stesso: amante della lingua e della letteratura) viene ostracizzato dalla critica letteraria italiana degli anni ’60, che invece era molto “impegnata”.
Una raccolta di saggi e interventi del professore che ci fa addentrare non solo nella mente e negli studi svolti su temi a lui estremamente cari (Beowulf e Galvano su tutti), ma anche sull'apparato culturale e letterario sul quale costruisce tutto l'universo che viene coinvolto nella sua ineguagliabile produzione.
Se in Beowulf e Galvano l'intento è quello di analizzare e (soprattutto) rendere giustizia a due capolavori della letteratura medievale Europea, in Sulle Fiabe è il Faerie a divenire il fulcro dell'invettiva di Tolkien, sempre in contrasto con letterati, critici o presunti tali.
"J.R.R. Tolkien, il professore che amava i draghi, filologo insigne ed estroso, subcreatore della Terra di Mezzo e dei suoi miti cosmogonici, conservatore, cattolico tradizionalista, antimoderno a tal punto da preferire i fulmini ai lampioni, i cavalli alle automobili, ha insegnato ormai a diverse generazioni ad amare il Medioevo ed il Fantastico ed a non considerarli entrambi come qualcosa di negativo, di cui vergognarsi o addirittura di “pericoloso”.
Un'opera che ci permette di conoscere il Tolkien professore, facendoci un poco invidiare il fatto di non averlo potuto aspettare seduti in qualche aula universitaria del Merton College.
My favorite essay (they are all good in their own right) is Tolkien's essay on fairy stories he gave as a lecture at St. Andrew' in Scotland in 1939.
J.R.R.Tolkien gave the world some amazing works of literature such as The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and The Silmarillion.
This book brings back some good memories of reading from it at The Eagle and Child pub in Oxford, England where Tolkien, Lewis, Charles Williams, Owen Barfield, Hugo Dyson, Warnie Lewis, and the other Inklings would get together to talk nonsense, literature, theology, and life experience over beer, tea, cider, and pipes.
A fascinating, if dense and academic look at several topics related to the relationship between language and literature. Of particular interest to me was 'On Fairy Stories', which is a passionate defense of fantasy and fairy stories. There are so many 'serious literary writers' who are dismissive of genre fiction, as though literary fiction has a corner on describing the human condition. As an Oxford don, Tolkien was uniquely situated to defend fairy stories clearly and with examples of fairy stories and their impact on people and literature across the centuries.
I enjoyed this immensely. I probably enjoyed it much more than I should have as I have no background in philology and no knowledge of ancient European languages. Tolkien is an incredible writer, and it's only enhanced when he writes about something he is passionate about. His passion and personality really come out in these essays.
Nuggets sprinkled throughout, but it is not for the faint of heart. Culturally bound in some spots, obscure in others. On Fairy Stories and the essay on Sir Gawain were my favorites, but beyond that, it was tough going.
Я не все прочитала, но зато внимательно.
I understand Tolkien and The Lord of the Rings much better now!
