https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34484.Small_Gods
It was evident, even from the first time I read this book, that Pratchett had put some real heavy thinking into it.This book is, as the title suggests, about gods.
It's a tactic that has been used by many religions over the years, often to justify acts that they know their god would not approve of.I don't believe that Pratchett was trying to take a stab at the Catholics in this book.
I can't say for sure whether a god or gods exist, but if they did, I think I could live with this kind of arrangement.What this book definitely is, in any case, is good.
There were so many passages when I was musing ‘It’s like this thought has sprung out of my head but it’s written a hundred times better than I would have said it’.The book is a splendid metaphor for religion.
All gods are small until you believe in them.
Бог не е някакво смътно антропоморфно проявление, не е инкарнацията на всичките ти страхове и опрощението на всичките ти грехове, не е и институцията, която умело се прави, че неуморно работи в Негова възхвала.
Ти си толкова, колкото вярваш.
И можеш толкова, колкото вярваш.
Brutha's simple-minded yet thoughtful way of believing was so touching, especially because I was expecting him to do a 180 character change with each of his fervently held beliefs that came crashing down.Having recently finished a children's book whose "love thy enemies" message left me utterly nonplussed, I was pleasantly surprised to find myself earnestly hoping that Brutha's kindness would eventually pay off, even though I would've been happy to have the main antagonist drop dead at any moment.Score: 4.8/5 starsI have to admit that I did end up skimming through some of the more philosophical passages, in favor of the more action-packed scenes, but all in all I can't say I was ever bored.
One of Pratchett’s best Discworld novels.Pratchett delivers a brilliant parody of religion in this early (the 13th) standalone.
In Small Gods, only lowly novice Brutha truly believes in Om and Pratchett fashions a story around the strange relationship between the two.Featuring Pratchett’s signature humor and superb writing, Discworld fans will also enjoy time with Lu-Tze, The Librarian, Death, very likable protagonist Brutha and the introduction of the Diogenes like philosopher Didactylos.
This scathing satire on religion is one of his darker Discworld outings but also one of his best.
I keep hearing people talk about "all the good" this or that person or institution is doing for religious reasons and maybe some are, but they are not the norm and many do it for ulterior reasons anyway (e.g. wanting to get recognition for what they are doing or being afraid of some form of hell or whatever).This and more are points Sir Terry is addressing in this book as well.We meet Brutha, a novice in the temple of the Great God Om. The problem?
Winning in HeavenPratchett at his theological best: there are many gods, varying in size and power depending on the numbers who believe in them. The obvious theological/economic issue which then arises is 'How does a small god survive?' Stiff competition calls for creative solutions.
The trouble with being a god is that you've got no one to pray to.What good is being a god when you're stuck in the body of a lowly tortoise, and your only follower is an uneducated melon-hoer?Yep, it sucks to be Om.Now, imagine poor Brutha's disappointment.
For one thing, he doesn't have horns; for another, this so-called god can't even remember MEETING the prophets.The Prophet Hashimi!""Never met the man!""Oh?
I don't know!" lied the tortoise."But you...you're omnicognisant," said Brutha."That doesn't mean I know everything."Brutha bit his lip.
:)Re-read from about 15 years ago, and somehow more satisfying now than it was then.
This is a total Moses coming out of the desert kind of tale, only the GREAT GOD OM is a tiny turtle with only one believer and the kid is kinda hopeless, but a god's gotta do what a god's gotta do.
Get Believers.
On DISCWORLD.So yeah, it's kindof a mess, traveling from the city of believers who don't believe in anything, to the city of philosophers who believe in ignorance, to the deep desert where there are a bunch of destitute almost-ex-gods who've seen much, much better days.The humor is the best part.
So glad I got to re-read this one in particular.
And people.
Especially people.
My second read and I like it even more.This extremely cleaver religious satire is one of the top Pratchett's work as organized religion becomes target of his wit and cynicism.
"It's not my fault if people misuse the--" "It is.
If you muck up people's minds just because you want them to believe in you, what they do is all your fault." Fun, fun, fun.
I loved the premise of what happens to small gods; gods that either lose their followers or only had a few to begin with?
Om is such a god with only one believer left.
Ignominy and the dire consequences of losing one's last devotee leads to much elbow shoving and jockeying.
You Shall Not Subject Your God to Market Forces!
4.5'If a man lived properly, not according to what any priests said, but according to what seemed decent and honest inside, then it would, at the end, more or less, turn out all right.' Small Gods is the darkest book in this series so far.
'Vorbis could humble himself in prayer in a way that made the posturings of power-mad emperors look subservient.' And this man has just decided that Ephebe should get Omnia's religion - whether they want it or not.Enter Great God Om whose greatest problem right now is that there is only one true believer left in Omnia.
There are some single/non-series in Discworld novels, that not included in Watch, Rincewind, or other sub-series in Discworld.
In my opinion Small Gods is the BEST single Discworld novel.
With single novel, the character growth aspect is more significant than the series.The main premise of this novel is the relationships between gods, believers, and organized religion.
Oh yeah, with that kind of premise, you can find some philosophical witty and wise words here and there on novel.My favourite aspect of this novel that made me rated this book as 5 star: conflicts between main protagonist and antagonist.
Como forma de homenageá-lo e divulgar o trabalho da sua vida, trago para vocês a resenha de Pequenos Deuses, 13º livro de Discworld.Já imaginaram que, de alguma maneira, pode existir uma maneira de seu Deus (ou deuses) se manifestar no lugar em que você vive?
Muitos afirmam que o mundo não é uma esfera, mas sim uma tartaruga nadando pelo universo com quatro elefantes apoiados no seu caso, sendo que esses sustentam toda Discworld em uma forma plana, como se fosse um disco.
Ouh, kakva genijalština. Ako kažem još jednom „pametno i humano“ za Pračeta, mislim da bih počinio neku sortu zločina protiv čovečnosti ili makar pismenosti, te ću samo reći da je Brutina karakterizacija stvar čudesa (zašto? zato što sam mislio posle prvih pedeset strana da ću konačno naleteti na lošeg Pračeta, a onda je zasijala lampica iznad moje glavate lobanje i neke stvari su se namestile na svoje pravo mesto), a poslednjih nekoliko stranica romana Pračet u najfinijem izdanju.5
For the God, Om, power began with a shepherd but real power had to be rebuilt from ground up… very closely from the ground.
As for all the other believers, whether true faith ever began is a more philosophical question.
The answer is simplest, for this newcomer to Discworld, for my story began with Small Gods.
There was also, to Brutha and Om’s collective dismay, a far more remote, and much more heretical third reason - that God only has one true believer left to hear.
Nothing I have read in Small Gods speaks to the contrary, so suffice to say, I am now a believer.
“The trouble was that he was talking in philosophy but they were listening in gibberish.”  Aaaah this one was really funny. And a good standalone/jumping in point if you aren't reading this series in any order.The Discworld is a flat disc-shaped world which rests on the backs of four elephants who are standing on the shell of a turtle that is slowly swimming through space (to not even the gods know where).Here we have the Omniam Church who believes in the Great God Om. Om has manifested himself
And a good standalone/jumping in point if you aren't reading this series in any order.The Discworld is a flat disc-shaped world which rests on the backs of four elephants who are standing on the shell of a turtle that is slowly swimming through space (to not even the gods know where).Here we have the Omniam Church who believes in the Great God Om. Om has manifested himself in the world, much to his chagrin, in the form of a tortoise, and the only one who can hear him is a novice of the citadel, Brutha, because he is the only true believer.
'Intellectually amused emotionally detached' best describes my relationship with T.Pratchett.This book made me realise that despite my love for humour, humour by itself is not enough – I need an engaging story and characters I could care for as well.
Unfortunately this story didn’t hook me in and I couldn’t relate to any of the characters.
Whenever I left the book I had no urge to come back to it.Humour on the other hand is brilliant!
I think I would enjoy him more in a short story format or perhaps reading in fragments along some other more gripping book.
Hands-down my favorite DiscWorld novel.From the perfectly twisted and filigreed mind of Terry Pratchett we have a book that addresses why religion starts stupid and only gets dumber.
And no religion is spared!Brutha is a child-like novice in his religious order, and he will never achieve anything more than novice status.
Until one day his god literally falls from the sky and realizes that Brutha is the only person in his entire religion who actually *believes* and isn't just going through the motions.This is a problem for the Great God Om, because a god's power is directly proportional to the number of his believers.Somehow Om has got to make Brutha the simpleton into a fire-breathing prophet, so people will BELIEVE again, and restore Om's power.Or else Om is doomed to returning to the desert, a wisp of a thought, banished with the other "Small Gods"...
the series never again has as many unreservedly brilliant books in a row).A small country on the Circle Sea, Omnia is a religious theocracy dedicated to the worship of the great god Om and the whole country is eagerly awaiting the appearance of the next Prophet of Om. Meanwhile, the real people in power, mid-level officials in the Church, are waging war on various other of the countries around the Circle Sea. Brutha is a novice of the Omnian church working in the temple gardens one day when the great god Om begins talking to him.
And like a lot of Pratchett's writing, the difference comes down to the fundamental goodness of good people.Ther's a lot in this book made of how Vorbis's true evil is how he can make others think like him, doing evil reflexively.

Peed my pants with this one, too! Witty and deep at the same time, and oh so true!
So when the lovely new hardbacks of the beloved Discworld series began appearing late last year, I picked up some books I’d read a long time ago and subsequently forgotten all but a few scenes, characters and a line or two from.
One of these was Small Gods which I remember liking but, having re-read it this week, I can unfortunately say that it’s an enormously boring Discworld book.
I know Pratchett’s a great storyteller and I’ll always love the Discworld series but not Small Gods- it’s definitely one of his weakest books.
Having done some checks of reviews, I knew that #13, Small Gods, was a stand-alone that was not just fun and whimsical, but actually was also a very intelligent examination of personal faith, fanaticism, and the dogmatism of religious institutions that have taken the place of real faith, to the point that the gods themselves dwindle to just a whisper on the breeze for lack of true believers.It is probably one of the most thoughtful examinations of what real belief is and the co-dependent nature of humans and gods.
DIDÁCTILOS y Sobrino-Filósofos Prácticos-Ninguna Proposición Es Demasiado Grande«Podemos Pensar por Usted»Tarifas Especiales a partir de las 6 de la tardeAxiomas Frescos Cada Día Las ovejas merecen que alguien las empuje.
Un filósofo es alguien lo bastante listo como para buscarse un trabajo en el que no hay que levantar objetos pesados.… Con la desvergüenza y desbordada imaginación de las que suele hacer gala el creador del Mundodisco, Terry Pratchett nos regala una novela irreverente, sátira impía sobre el hecho religioso, sobre la hipócrita y contradictoria condición humana y la extrañeza que domina la mutua relación entre hombre y divinidad.
"You can die for your country or your people or your family, but for a god you should live fully and busily, every day of a long life."And with that, I no longer have an excuse not to hunt down every Terry Pratchett book to enjoy and, probably, treasure.
I've loved every book of his I've read to date, but that one line, so self-evident and borderline blasphemous to ANY religion, cements my belief that Mr Pratchett is one of the greatest thinkers and writers of our time.
Following on from Pyramids, Guards!
Guards!, and Witches Abroad, Pratchett continues his study of theology, philosophy and the misuse thereof by mankind, touching on the same ground that his good friend Neil Gaiman would later dive in to with American Gods - what happens to the god when people stop believing in it?It's funny and sharp with its satire, exactly as you would expect from Pratchett.
Still, it could be worse, I could be deeply offended on behalf of religious people everywhere who choose to ignore two simple guiding facts of life:I: This is Not a GameII: Here and Now, You Are Alive.
Пратчет е един от духовните ми татковци. Започвайки на 11 с „Ерик“, буквално израснах с неговите книги.Тази ми е от най-израстващите. :)Имаме нейно представяне от Васил Станев в Човешката библиотека:http://choveshkata.net/blog/?p=2630
A clever, lighthearted, witty satire on religions. So much fun imagining the rage between tortoise and devout believer.
People start out believing in the god and end up believing in the structure." (SG; pg190) Pratchett has filled the book with some memorable characters; from Om himself, to Brutha the earnest novice/prophet, to the evil Vorbis (who I am inclined to think is in some way related to Vetinari of Ankh Morpork; only more sociopathic.)Bryson on the other hand, does not discuss religion at all and in A Short History of Nearly Everything focuses on pure history, maths and science; humanity's quest to understand our place in the universe and to quantify the world we all inhabit.
I would agree with this if you're the type of person who doesn't need to continue on with the same characters from one book to the other.
If you're looking for the style of Pratchett, but you just want a taste without getting into any major character arcs and just want his wit and wisdom this is your book.
Although my enjoyment level for this book was a 4.1 - I am a person who wants to hear more about my favorite characters over a tight literary story in the same universe - I need to rate this a 5.
