https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6609125-nachtmahr
But Ewers wrote a lot of short fiction (not to mention one of the pivotal early horror novels, Alraune), most of which languished untranslated (or were only available in old, rare editions).The introduction by John Hirschhorn-Smith gives a compact, intriguing overview of the life of the complex, controversial, fascinating writer Hanns Heinz Ewers (1871-1943): popular author, decadent (much profligacy, many duels fought), Occultist & medium, compatriot of Edvard Munch and August Strindberg, bisexual androgyne, law student, early screenwriter/film director (movies having just been invented), nudist, German spy/propagandist in America in WWI (for which he was jailed), scandalous cabaret impresario, world traveler, Racialist (who, interestingly, believed that the Jewish people were the closest equals to the Aryans in Europe and was a great booster of the Jewish people and culture) and early member of the Nazi Party (later ejected and placed on Goebbels' enemies list)!
Although a Philo-Semite (claiming that Jews were the only other race comparable to the Nordic type), Hanns Heinz Ewers would also be the writer of the biography of Nazi Martyr Horst Wessel which Adolf Hitler personally asked Ewers to write.
Novels like "The Sorcerer's Apprentice and "Alraune" and short stories like "The Spider" contain distinctive qualities which raise them to a classic level." It is more than obvious reading Hanns Hans Ewers that his wonderful horror stories were no doubt an influence on Lovecraft.
In the book "Strange Tales" the story "Mamaloi" describes this semi-autobiographical VooDoo horror.
While dabbling in the realm of supernatural fiction, I came across Ewers's masterful "The Spider" in a compilation of stories that influenced H.P. Lovecraft.
Side Reel Press is currently translating and printing a decent amount of his work, BUT no other edition demonstrates Ewers's craftmanship or genious like Strange Tales, the translation is amazing and really captures Ewers's penchant for bleakness and imagination.
Tales such as "Diary of an Orange Tree," "Tomato Sauce," and aforementioned "The Spider" really raises the standard for even Classic horror/ imaginary fiction in general; reject the masses and don't ignore this amazing writer.
Wonderful collection!
