https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15752.By_the_Light_of_the_Moon
Cryptic read! fascinating,intriguing and an amazing storyline with some well defined and well developed cast of characters..it was non-stop roller coaster ride of virtually thrill action..recommend (paperback!!)
Koontz is spending far too much time on the thorough and often dragging description of his protagonists' visions, thereby neglecting the advancement of his plot.
Jilly's annoying attributes and Koontz's forced humour at times render this book unbearable, and at some point I considered myself unable to finish the story.
The most pathetic part of the book remains the (thankfully) rushed ending, when - over a nice glass of wine - our protagonists announce their aim to become something akin to superheroes and vow to fight evil whenever they are faced by it, thus enabling Mr Koontz to produce a sequel.
I love reading this book. I've read it four times now and the effect is without exception interesting, frequently astonishing and always positive. It's a beautiful book with a great title - so great that I have the phrase "BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON" tattooed on my right arm. I enjoy the power of positivity which radiates from this volume of literature. The idea that we create our own reality by our thoughts and the difference for good that individuals can make in the world is elaborated on in this amazing story.
Koontzland Group Read - January 2018  This was not the easiest read for me - as any other of Koontz books I've read.Dylan O'Conner(artist-29) & his autistic brother Shepherd O'Connor(20) are traveling across Arizona to Santa Fe, New Mexico, to a art festival in his SUV.They cross paths with Jilly Jackson (comedian). They are injected with a unknown drug from a strange Lincoln Proctor (alias Dr. Frankentein), the 3 meet to review what he did to them. Lincoln was chased & killed in Jilly
Shep's crazy riddles (ultra ray, infra Ray, violet Ray, etc.) creates stress between Dylan & Jilly when meeting but they grow closer as she begins to accept Shep.Shep's "folding foresight" allows him to see from the "present to the past" to avoid danger of their past lives.
"Rat, Mole, Mr. Toad" - "Shep is Brave" before assassins attack?Once Shep takes Jilly's foresight of danger "up there" to stop 3 gunmen in a church from killing a bride & groom with their own assault rifle "butts", Jilliy miraculous stops the 3rd gunman "up there" & vanishes before anyone seeing her?The end shows Shep has the supernatural "folding foresight" power - traveling to The Past that "exists" from his Present?Lincoln Proctor role needs more description in my review?*No first read description in my 2015 read*
And thus begins their life altering road trip.The book, although a suspenseful road trip into the darkest corners of hell, shines because of its characters.
Their initial sparring adds a bit of lightness to the tense plot but once they realize they've been altered by the "serum" and that they're truly on the run for their lives they learn to get along (and begin to like and respect each other) and the plot takes on a much more somber tone.The story takes place over the span of what I believe is little more than 24 hours.
They aren't really very good for you and when you think about it you might come to a realization that they're mostly crap..but that doesn't stop you from getting another Slim Jim."By The Light of The Moon" was written in 2002 and is a classic Koontz chase novel.
Koontz took a risk by writing an autistic character; however Shep doesn't slow down the story, instead only adds to the suspense.
Cryptic read! fascinating,intriguing and an amazing storyline with some well defined and well developed cast of characters...it was a non-stop roller coaster ride of virtually thrill action..recommended to everyone (paperback!)
Jilly and Dylan are strangers who are both knocked unconscious and injected with a strange substance by a scientist they refer to as Doctor Frankenstein.
Look, this book is cheesy as hell.
The prose is as purple as a corpse in rigor; Jilly and Dylan are pious pissholes who spend most of the book bemoaning the fact that they are so pure, so moralistic, in a world gone to hell.
I didn’t want to put this book down once I’d begun, if that says anything.This is a Koontz novel.
If you’re looking for a bit of brainless, cheesy fun with lots of gun action and wonky science, you could do much worse.
Kinda boring with a really lame ending.
3 characters are brought together by chance and circumstance and injected with an evil substance of God knows what by a mad scientist type of man.
However, later on the story kind of fizzles out because every time the author develops a jam for the characters or a tough situation they just seem to solve it by the snap of their fingers..Kaput..Over.
The book would have been far better if the author had cut out some of the more frivolous parts and stuck to the compelling story that started at the beginning of the book.
IMO, it was just too darn descriptive. I found myself skipping over whole pages of descriptions to get to the actual story (which wasn't too bad in and of itself). It is like the writer doesn't realize we have imaginations and can create most of the stuff he is writing about already in our head as we read the book. I want to try reading something else of his to see if this happens all the time or if it is just in this one.
Also, Dylan is responsible for his autistic brother Shep.For me, the aspect that drives this author's novels are his characters and this book has great characters.
The banter between Dylan and Jillian provide laughs.
It wouldn't be a Dean Koontz novel if we did not have the supernatural occurrence or the chase between evil and good.
The chase is riveting but is also the reason why this book doesn't receive the full five stars.
This might be the only flaw of this book.This is a terrific book that has both action and well thought out characters and relationships.
He's created a number of characters that I feel I'd really like to meet and get to know.
He's created at least 3 in this book.
Here there are 2 main characters, Dylan and Shep, and Jilly is practically a 3rd main character.
Dylan and Shep a tad moreso than Jilly.
This book was so good, I'm seriously hoping Dean chooses to continue their story(ies) in some way.
If you like quality characters you get to know, vividly sculpted scenes, and a bit of the fantasciencefiction of the type Koontz is known for, "By the Light of the Moon" will surely please.
This book has the best opening paragraph I have ever read!
Instantly, you, along with the main characters, are set into a state of confusion.
You'll stay there for most of the book, but know that you are in capable hands.Of all the characters, I loved Shepard the most.
However, I was disappointed that we never got into Shepard's mind.
I was practically salivating to read Koontz's take on the autistic Shepard's thoughts and impressions.
*Sigh*Still, this is one of the Koontz's best books.
It has all his best trademarks.
It is written with such love and grace towards the characters.
Totally loved this book.
It ranks as one of my favorite Koontz books.
He uses these incredible metaphors to describe situations and scenes on one page and then on the next page he says something simple like "he was big time dead" - - it's great.
Also, this book was supposed to be spooky - but I was laughing out loud at Koontz's humor and I even had to go and read halarious lines outloud to other people around me.
Plus, it a sign of a great author is when he has you laughing on one page, reading faster on the next page, and crying on yet another page.I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
Another book I really enjoyed.
Koontz can run hot and cold.
Some of his books are really great others are....well, not so great.
This one is one of the ones I like a lot.
My wife liked Koontz (many of the ones I don't care for she liked).I avoid giving "synopsises" as in some books that in iteslf is a spoiler.
So in this one it opens well, the relationship between the two main characters is well done (there are 3 main characters but I refer to the "romantic interest).
The story unfolds well and I think you'll enjoy it.
Dreadful. About 50 pages of storyline and 300 pages of waffle. Koontz bases his told to death storyline around replaceable, generic characters and some dribbling maniac who repeats incongruous words like "ice" and "cake" in some feeble attempt to write a bestseller. How this formula still works, I don't know
Wow! Wow! Wow! What a ride! This book was fantastic. Sadly, I could so relate to Jillie (main female character) as I am also a vortex of pessimism. Ha ha. Will most definitely read again! I will say it again, "What a great book!"
One of my top three Dean Koontz Novels. I have the phrase "By The Light of the Moon" tattooed on my right arm. I enjoy the dialogue and the mysteries of the unknown. By The Light of the Moon represents many of the ideas I believe including the power of positive thinking and our potential for good.
Driven by the dialogue of the characters, the story unfolds exactly as it is revealed to the characters, allowing the reader the chance to evolve with the protagonists as they explore their new world.
The main character, Dylan O'Connor, faces a similar situation to another famous "gifted" member of our race: Peter Parker.
Though the connection may seem dubious, allow me to explain: Both Peter and Dylan struggle initially with the morality of their decisions, and both of them overcome their initial moral conundrum through the help of a family member.
He writes about very bad things happening to very good people (which is not to say that they're all saints), and this makes you root for them and despise the villains with all your might.I really couldn't make myself care too much about Jilly, Dylan or Shep, though.
I can still tell you about Koontz stories I read 10 or more years ago, but having read By The Light Of The Moon less than 2 years ago, not much has stuck in my mind, except for some less than positive things.
I wasn't expecting this to end the way that it did. I loved everything about this book! The growing relationship between the characters, the creepiness, the betrayals, and the good morals wound into it. Amazing book!
Never read this. Your brain will never forgive you.
Another suspenseful novel. Great book! Had me shaking, yet again, the WHOLE way through. What ever happened to this book i wonder? lol
I have read several other Dean Koontz books, so my assumptions about By the Light of the Moon were somewhat set by those experiences.
Sure, they had lots of witty banter and one-liners (Jilly is a comic after all), and there was some kindness - but I always had the feeling that as soon as the adventure was over, they would walk away from each other without a second thought.Second, the writing in the book is not Mr. Koontz's usual tight prose.
Ughh.So, while I can endorse Mr. Koontz's other novels with some enthusiasm.
Without giving away anything about the story, the best way I could describe it is "What would you do if you believe in the decent goodness of people, and could help others, even at great cost to yourself?" I hope if ever confronted with this question in a setting like Mr. Koontz's characters, that I will respond in a way his characters would approve of.
Definitely one of his best novels ever, in my opinion, and one of the better books I have read this year.
The only reason i didn't rate it 5 stars is because there were a few times I thought things got a bit off track...getting distracted from the main action with stuff that wasn't pertinent or if it was got dragged on for too long.
This didn't happen often (goodness knows I love Koontz's writing) but it did a bit.
Other than that I thought the story was great and the growing camaraderie between the trio was something I loved.
I liked the characters and the way they came together and bonded, first over shared danger and then later in support of a mission to do good.
First of all, great title.
Great cover, for that matter.
That's a good sign that you're about to read some tasty tripped-out Koontz material.
Then, you get to the first paragraph, and you find out that this guy named Dylan gets mugged and injected with an unknown substance by some random wacko.
Koontz decided (wisely, I might add) to feed the reader a succulent slice of suspense which ups the intensity ten-fold.
The book just gets more and more spooky until the very end, which concludes in a big explosion of classic Koontz eerieness.
By the Light of the Moon is one of the last book Koontz has written that I truly love and look forward to reading every year; it's also read by Stephen Lang, which greatly rates the audiobook over other forms.
Regardless of my star-rating and personal enjoyment of the novel, let me warn that this is not a very good book unless you really enjoy the characters, because the characters are about all that Koontz has working well.
reading this book was like visiting old friends. one of personal favorites of koontz writing, we follow the adventures of two brothers, one autistic, and a young woman, after their encounter with a certified mad scientist. sometimes frightening, sometimes hysterically funny, it's a great adventure with witty dialogue and unforseen plot twists. you can read this one without nightmares. I really loved the characters.
