https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79705.Apollyon
As one who always reads other reviews before reading and reviewing a book, I feel like I should respond to what some of the other reviewers have to say.
Yes, the writing style is simple, but that just makes the book(s) easier too read.
I feel that the writers have come a good distance with character development, as I find myself actually caring what happens to them and feeling some emotion with what they are going through.
Okay, so another reason to dislike these books is the good math.
One of the main characters is pregnant, right?
Now: There is a five-month plague of demon locusts (just take it at face value) and anyone stung by them will be writhing in pain for a) the rest of the five months that the plague exists, and b) for five whole months after that.
Just as people start coming out of the terrible pain.
Basic maths mean that she was pregnant for 13 months at a minimum.
This means one of three things: 1) she's pregnant with the AntiChrist, but that can't be, because we know who the AntiChrist is.
Things continue to pick up as the world faces more and more Trumpet Judgements.
Getting further into the Tribulation-the period after the Rapture but before the Glorious Appearing- the world’s surviving population is facing yet another large blow to its numbers.
With the so-called blessing of the Antichrist, Nicolae Carpathia, the great conference of witnesses is scheduled to occur in Israel.
Do we want to know what the child of the Antichrist looks like?Buck, still trying to get home to the States, finds his way back to Chaim Rosenweig’s where he can bide his time until arrangements can be made.
In this, the fifth book of the "Left Behind" series, the writing has definitely improved, for the most part.
In this book, we are reminded of the revelation in the "Soul Harvest" that Carpathia had Bruce Barnes poisoned.
At the time, Bruce (and the "Tribulation Force" as a whole) was no great threat to either Carpathia or the Global Community.
The story, however, is still the same flaccid, tepid series of escapes, rescues, and chases that we have become used to from these authors.
These books aren't just a waste of time and paper.
They are also a waste of a great opportunity to give us frightening, exciting, gut-wrenching stories.
The main characters are constantly putting themselves in situations that noone should survive, yet they do things that if the world conditions really were as they are discribed in the book would be impossible for them to do.Either because the writing is just not that good or because my thought process is wired differently from the authors, I keep thinking along the lines of how?
And all of the gas stations are ok to the point they have no problems always having gas for the cars, after a major earthquake?
The characters are in and out of danger, they're having a baby, and there is some good scripture written throughout the book.
This is the Left Behind book that made me the maddest.
However it did not dissuade me from continuing the series.
You'd think with a book called Apollyon: The Destroyer Is Unleashed there would at the very least be a character names Apollyon in the book.
Sadly, no.
There is not even a "destoyer." The name Apollyon is mentioned twice but no demon lord arises as I mistakenly believed.
There are however these ridiculous demon hybrid locusts.
These locusts eventually die off.
These books aren't bad but they're not good either.
They are compulsively readable with intriguing characters and cliffhangers galore.
The beginning started off slow but quickly built up towards the middle and held strong all the way to the end. A very satisfying fifth installment to the Left Behind Series. ProsIntenseSuspenseClift hangersPlot twistsCharacter developmentPlot developmentConsNothing
Funtastic!
After the group makes it back to the United States of America, the book then starts to jump around a bit more as it skips ahead into the "future" and the subsequent punishments/judgements from God. Buck is left behind in Israel as the rest of the group escapes from Israel; he ends up staying with Chaim until he is finally able to safely flee the country.
(hide spoiler)] Probably the most disappointing moment in the book.(view spoiler)[The various punishments and plagues dumped upon the Earth are hard to read.
Jenkins in their book “Apollyon” Book Five in the Left Behind series published by Tyndale House Publishers takes us to the events of Chapter 9, verses 1-12 in Revelation, the last book of The Bible.In the Bible book of Revelation an Angel is dispatched to the bottomless pit with a key.
According to the Greek Dictionary Apollyon simply means, "Destroyer".Nicolae Carpathia continues his rise to power and wants to eliminate all the believers that are opposed to his One World Religion.
The remaining members of the Tribulation Force must figure out a way to stop this wholesale slaughter.Dr. LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins provide a fictional background for the real events that the final book of The Bible, Revelation, speak about: the end times.
Hattie: I still cannot stand this woman, but as a believer, I get how passionate they are about trying to win her to Christ...but some are so hard hearted, there is nothing you could say.
They have to either choose to believe or not.
I hate that loss had to happen for the Trib Force to have a new hideout and shelter.
I hated a lot of the loss that has taken place so far.
Chaim...still driving me crazy too.
He is so intelligent that he cannot believe.
As this is the second time through this series...it really does get more exciting.
I forgot I was even reading the book.
maybe I will enjoy the book more in a year or so but I doubt it.
as a whole so far the series is pretty good; I just haven't got into this book at all.
I am not a Christian and at times these books, understandably, get a little preachy so it kills the mood for me.read it if you want everyone is different.
I hope this book stays around for a while because it is worthy of reading.
enjoy the book as best you can.
Here in Volume 5 of the Left Behind series, authors Jenkins & Lahaye prove that even a book can have bad CGI.
Sounds truly epic, right?Yeah..
Right up until the part with the little demon locusts with little angry faces.
Bad CGI strikes again!
So you leave the theater ruing the wasted expense of popcorn, soda, and ticket and having bad flashbacks of that time you took your date to see Van Helsing.
That's this book.PS: The back of the book says this is the "most shocking and explicit portrayal" in the Left Behind series yet.
After reading it I can say with certainty that I have seen more shocking Jim Henson productions.
These books started as a guilty pleasure, a mindless read suggested by my students. However, as the series goes on, the writing grows worse. At this point, I'm only continuing to read them because I'm curious how this train wreck of a series grew so popular and how it came to a close after something like 13 books.
Ah this one was really good too! I liked this storyline, and things are getting pretty intense now! I can't wait to keep reading this series!
Good but not great. Still I want to read the rest of the series.
The strength I see in the series so far is the human condition of all the characters I don’t know if I could write all of that analysis down.
I’ve been told I’m very good at self analysis in my writing but I don’t think I would have the energy to do all of this.
I understand from the book of Revelation perspective I just don’t know where they get that word and it’s probably just because I don’t always look at names in translation and I’m not really familiar with the supernatural so I don’t know where you are where you’re getting it work for the title.
(Rev 9:7-11) As I've said in previous Left Behind reviews, these books are great for bringing Revelation to life & making you turn again to the Word, the Truth, to see if LaHaye's depiction matches up.Also brought to life are the two witnesses of Rev 11.
They make a powerful appearance at a huge Christian gathering in Israel - one which reminds me of Christian camps I've been on where God's presence is so strong...However, parts of the story really drag.
This book seems to focus a lot on the pregnancy of two main characters - which isn't always that interesting.
Some characters remind frustratingly unchanged.But I guess that's true of life.
This is the 5th book in the series and they are all pretty much the same for me when it comes to storyline and consistency.
I like the characters, I like learning about the Bible in a way that I can actually understand and grasp the meaning of certain things, and I like how this ginormous story is broken down into smaller books.
If you believe some of the other reviews, this series is written horribly and the books are not that good.
Since I am fairly new to the whole religion thing, I am not having the same problems as they are...
As the book progresses, more trials face the Earth and these trials challenge friends of the Tribulation force to consider belief in Christ.I have yet to be disappointed with a book in this series.
It helps that I have become attached to the characters and find myself rooting for them as they face the trials of the Tribulation, hoping they will survive.
These characters are super well-written and fascinating.
I found that this book was almost as good as the third and fourth books (my favorites in the series so far) but not quite as riveting, action packed, and engaging.
I enjoyed this book and it was very exiting.
Okay so Hattie loses her baby, we all knew it was going to happen.
This was a very sad event and I feel like it happened and then everyone except Hattie moved on.
I feel like Hattie needs to just do something.
The only problem with this is the trib force didn't want to tell the baby about the past events.
So why give him a name that makes the trib force remember the past events?
Anyway, I'm looking forward to the next book and my faith in the series has not been wavered.
Starting this review is well, easy to say the least.
I started reading the first book in this wonderful series just as soon as I heard about them.
Being from a christian home life growing up and as well as my husband and family this was a no brainier.
I am going to do one review including the whole series.
From the first page of the first book to the last page in the last book, I was not able to put these books down.
This series, although some would call fictional, I believe are very close to what will:To read more of my review: https://breathoflifebookreviews.blogs...
The fifth chapter of the Left Behind series can be divided in to two halves in regards to the plot.
The first, which centres around a conference and Nicolae's approach to it is lacking any real action until it wraps up, and although there are some character developing motions, it is largely redundant.
The writers ensure nothing can be predicted other than the general predictions and their artistic license is employed well in ramping up the action and creating plot twists.
Overall, Apollyon is a standard and entertaining entry in the sequence, however it never delivers any real impact.
I am absolutely riveted by these books and when I am reading one I cannot put it down. I tear through it, page into page, and am always disappointed when I reach the end. The character development continues and the authors do not make the mistake of painting them in black and white (except antichrist, of course,) but you see the humanity - theirs, and ours. Our pettinessess and our greatnesses, our selfishness and our self sacrifice. The next book in the series is on my shelf and it is next on my list.
This was my favorite book of the series so far. There was a definite bone chilling factor that is encountered in this book that was never present in the previous ones. The thought of Apollyon, a a torturous creature that makes you wish you were dead while never actually killing you? And all because you are not a believer? I have to say Tim Lahaye has taught me so much, and all through the voices of fictional characters. I can't wait to read the next one!
I read what I did of this series because it was one of the few books my then-husband would read, and I wanted to be able to discuss books with him. I won't be reading more of these books, or re-reading any of the ones I already read, and reading them didn't help give me and my ex-husband anything interesting to talk about anyway since he didn't want to hear the ways in which my opinion on the series varied from his.
The believers from the unbelievers have been marked with the cross on the forehead. locust come and attack anyone not protected by the Lord. they must suffer this judgment for 5 to 10 months giving the Tribulation Force time to plan and prepare for the next seal and judgment. You have to read this series. I'm in love with the characters and I just can't seem to put these down once I start them. I'm raving about this series
The continuing drama of the Tribulation force surviving the years of tribulation. Clearly a fictional presentation of the pre-tribulational view of the future. Be aware that this is a fictional drama of the authors' theological views of eschatology, not necessarily predictive. To me, it forces the reader to think at the added dimension of this point-of-view based upon a modern perspective.
This novel, fifth in the Left Behind series, is a very realistic take at the Tribulation period, particularly at the time the first Trumpet judgment has happened -- the locusts and Apollyon. The characters are real people to me, making me care for them. Thank you Lord for this novel.
I am taking these for what they are...a story. Several points I thought to myself..ugh oh my, yeah right, and so on, but it is simply a story...so I keep going to say I have read the series and it isn't bad, something keeps pulling me in even after the ugh.
