https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95747.The_Miracle_of_Mindfulness
probably the best book on mindfulness meditation out there.
thich naht hahn is a bloody genius, and this book isn't even my favorite of his.
but really, the one-thing-in-the-moment meditation has helped me a lot.
we joke about it - going to wash one dish when we are upset - but it's surprisingly useful.
my favorite thing to do is go through my books/papers/etc.
- a tactic i learned from this book.
it's wildly relaxing, and i feel like i've accomplished something.
this is also the reason my books get moved around so often .
but seriously, this book is incredible.
The introduction tells us this the main text was originally a long letter from Thich Nhat Hanh to a fellow Buddhist monk in Vietnam in the midst of the war in 1975.
"Mindfulness frees us of forgetfulness and dispersion and makes it possible to live fully each minute of life." Not that he doesn't see a place for more formal meditation, and he provides several practical exercises, particularly focusing on the breath.
I remember feeling silly as we were directed to go "ohm." Later I'd be reintroduced to the practice when I took Yoga classes.
This is a very good and therough book on the practice of meditation. It is written by a Budist but any one of any mindset or religion can use this book's practices. I found it informative and I believe I shall reread it and try the practice out.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
Mindfulness and meditation have been helping a great deal, though it is still early days for me, and I have to undo a lot of prejudice on my part with respect to the “new age” and “self help” baggage that comes with it.
Includes simple exercises (such as washing the dishes being mindful of the act itself for itself, rather than rushing to get on to the next thing you want to do) that are very helpful for a beginner like me.
In hindsight, I don’t think I read it mindfully.
My favorite parts are when he’s traveling across the U.S. and his friend Jim starts popping pieces of a tangerine in his mouth while discussing their plans.
He suggests to Jim he ought to eat the tangerine.
If he had been eating anything, he was ‘eating’ his future plans.” There’s also this: “People usually consider walking on water or in thin air a miracle.
But I think the real miracle is not to walk either on water or in thin air, but to walk on earth.
A thought is like the stream of a river, without any staying power; as soon as it is produced it breaks up and disappears.
A thought is like the flame of a lamp, and it proceeds through causes and conditions.
A thought is like lightning, it breaks up in a moment and does not stay on...
And it occurs to him that "where there is an object, there thought arises." [Intentionalität].
Is then the thought one thing, and the object another?
So the object itself is just thought.
So the object itself is just thought.
I'll never wash the dishes the same way again.
My stepfather, who is a very wise man, would never go to sleep when there's dishes in the sink, and always takes his sweet time washing them, as if it was the most important job of his day.
My best friend (who recommended this book to me) shares her kitchen with so many people that washing dishes indeed becomes a time-consuming chore, yet she always does it gracefully and with full attention, and that's probably the reason why I can visit her and drink out of the same mug as I did many years ago without it being broken somewhere along the way.
What a fascinating, thought provoking book.
I am very interested in this idea of "mindfulness" and am now trying to put into practice many of the ideas the author of this book suggests.
The only thing that was a bit "strange" for me with the book was some of the ideas for meditation on death, on dead bodies.
That seemed a little "out there" for me, so I am not going to go that far, but for the general idea, I found this great!
I am going to investigate this idea of mindfulness further.
For anyone curious on what "mindfulness" is, this book seems to be an excellent introduction to the topic.
Very chilled nice book to read.
Did you know that you can put in as little as 10 minutes a day of sitting meditation and then apply this mindfulness of breath to "washing the dishes"?
Well, you will meditate now for 1 hour a day.
In fact, Buddhist Masters state that minfulness in daily life is more important than the actual sitting meditation!
Buy this book and become a 16-hour a day meditator.
Pick the one that feels right.
Then do the meditation in daily life.
Right now, I am doing "write a review meditation".
The feel of everything that is happening in the present.
This first encounter has made me more aware of myself often being in a hurry and caught up in distractions: the way I’ve often eaten an apple, taking its smell, taste, and texture for granted while multi-tasking, as if my world might collapse if I were to stop and focus on the joy, blessing, and nourishment of eating an apple.Because the edition I read is the Gift Edition, it also includes Thich Nhat Hanh’s calligraphy, several pages of “exercises in mindfulness;” a tribute by Jim Forest titled “Seeing With The Eyes of Compassion,” a “Selection of Buddhist Sutras,” photographs, and a chronology of Thich Nhat Han’s life.“For beginners, I recommend the method of pure recognition: recognition without judgement.
Feelings, whether of compassion or irritation, should be welcomed, recognized, and treated on an absolutely equal basis; because both are ourselves.
In mindfulness, compassion, irritation, mustard green plant, and teapot are all sacred.” (from page 61)
I'm in the middle of reading this.
I'm such a slow a reader: I borrowed this last month and I'm just about to approach the 90-page mark.
This book is barely 100 pages.I picked up this book because last month, I was going through a phase, or a refining fire, or a test.
My delight blossomed in the first few pages as I discover that the way I think is written in this book.
It's a simple read, it's simplicity provoking its readers to take pause and think about the present moment.
Drawing on Tolstoy, "there is only one important time and that is now.
. We talk about social service, service to the people, service to humanity, service for others who are far away, helping to bring peace to the world -- but often we forget that it is the very people around us that we must live for first of all.
. [I]f we want to put it into practice we must use the methods of mindfulness in order to seek and find the way." (p.
116 - 118) Now, on to practice the mindfulness meditations in the back of the book.
Suggested companion peace: Jon Kabat-Zinn's "Coming to Our Senses"!
A short and good introduction to mindfulness meditation. A little to short than I had hoped it would be. I couldn't understand the Buddhist sutras towards the end of the book, but probably they are venerable sutras because beginners like me cannot understand them.After reading three books by Thich Nhat Hanh, what I realized is that reading about mindfulness is way, way, way easier than actually cultivating it. (That seems so obvious in retrospect). But reading and re-rereading the books is a good way to push yourself to keep trying and keep practicing.
Great book.
Thich Nhat Hanh is one of the great Buddhist masters of our time, but his work, and his writing, go such much farther than one religion or way of thought.
This book introduces methods and thoughts on meditation, and how to transfer those methods and thoughts to our everyday lives, not only when meditating, but when doing pretty much anything.The idea of slowing down, and simply paying attention to, ones breathing while being aware of what you are doing at any given moment is something we can all benefit from.But this book goes beyond just that, and is a great introduction to ideas surrounding meditation, even for the non meditater.
Cuốn sách mình mua cả bản tiếng anh và tiếng việt.
Đọc bản tiếng anh khá thú vị nhưng sẽ đọc lại cả bản tiếng việt mới tái bản để cảm nhận sâu hơn.Cuốn sách đối với mình, sau khi đã đọc khá nhiều sách về mindfulness của thầy, thì gần như là sự tổng hợp và đúc lại những gì mình đã đọc, đã học được của thầy.
Mỗi cuốn sách của thầy như một cái phao, một niềm tin để bám vào mỗi khi mình cảm thấy bất ổn.
Nó khiến mình vững vàng hơn như một ngọn núi, linh hoạt hơn như những con sóng nước, và tĩnh hơn sáng hơn như mặt trời.
Miracle of mindfulness is a book which comes under one of my favourite genre, spirituality/Buddhism.
It's such a short'n sweet book.
It's all about controlling our mind to lead a peaceful life.
They're teaching how to control our mind, how to live happily, how to stay peaceful every time step by step with their personal and real life examples at the end.
This short book is one of the most easiest and simplest spiritual book I've ever come across in my whole life.
With huge love and respect, I'm recommending this to everyone who likes reading spiritual or Buddhist books.
The Miracle of Mindfulness is a fantastic introduction to mindfulness. It's extremely approachable, using plain language to explain how and why to integrate mindfulness into life.Exerises in Mindfulness was my favorite chapter. I had a more difficult time with the Selected Buddhist Sutras, but perhaps I wasn't yet ready for those.
I love TNH. This was a sort, simple (but not easy) guide for developing and nurturing a mindfulness practice. It will be returning to just the TNH parts of this frequently.
Is it bad that I listened to this manual ofMindfulness while I was driving?
Examine your talent, your virtue, your capacity, the convergence of favorable conditions that have led to success.
Shed the light of interdependence on the whole matter to see that the achievement is not really yours but the convergence of various conditions beyond your reach.
Only when you can relinquish them can you really be free and no longer assailed by them.Recall the bitterest failures in your life and examine each of them.
Examine your talent, your virtue, your capacity, and the absence of favorable conditions that led to the failures.
I had read this book on my own in 2010 either just before or just after I started to regularly attend the UU meditation circle on Saturdays.
This time I read it with the group.
I had previously heavily underlined passages and this time I could now see those marks in three ways; as something I'd never heard of regarding meditation or Buddhism, something actually important to recall and clear signs that wielding my pencil was just an exercise in slowing down my mind.
This time through I found the most value in the last section of select Sutras.
But the passage I valued most is on pages 135-6, the Contemplation of Thought.

"Remember that there is only one important time and that is now.
The present moment is the only time over which we have dominion.
The most important pursuit is making the person standing at your side happy, for that alone is the pursuit of life."This clear, simply written book is a good supplement to or beginner's volume for the pursuit of mindfulness.
Though other books may be less abstract and explain some concepts more thoroughly, the essence of this book remains valuable.
Even if you're already familiar with the concept of mindfulness and the practices suggested in the book, it is a good reminder.
I have read many books on the similar subjects, however, this one turned out to be the life changer for me.
After reading this book, I got to know life is not past or the future, life is all about enjoying the moment.I got the similar advice many times, but always lacked the tools or the approach towards the life to live in the present.
This book taught me how one practice mindfulness even if you are an extremely busy person.The language is simple and extremely deep thoughts answer many questions that one may have while trying to know what the life is all about.
Highly impressed with book, and have read it three times already!
If you unable to wash dishes mindfully you unable to sit in meditation. After all you _are_ the dishes.
Có nhiều cuốn dài ơi là dài, đọc xong chỉ nhận ra được 1 cái message (nhiều khi còn ko có gì), còn cuốn này mỏng mà lấy được nhiều ý, dùng được cho c/s thực tế.
Sư cô cũng giới thiệu đây là cuốn cơ bản về thiền, kết hợp cả việc tham gia khóa tu nên học được nhiều cái.
Message lớn nhất mà mình học được từ cuốn này: yêu thương bản thân, sống cho hiện tại.
Đơn giản là tập trung vào hiện tại, biết mình đang làm gì thì mới tự control c/s của bản thân mình được.
This book was super informative, practical, and very interesting! Some of the ideas presented in it were a little different and I honestly found them strange, but it's probably just a cultural thing so I'm not letting that affect my rating.If anyone is interested in learning about mindfulness, I would recommend this book. It's a great introduction to the subject!
"Thiều ơi! Có người nói nhìn thực tại với con mắt phật tử thì sẽ thấy bi quan. Thực ra bi quan hay lạc quan là những gì quá dễ dãi. Vấn đề là nhìn thấy thực tại một cách thấu đáo. Một tâm trạng bi quan chẳng bao giờ đưa tới được nụ cười trầm tĩnh mà ta thấy nở trên môi các vị Bồ Tát và những người đạt đạo."
