https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9328.The_House_of_the_Spirits
Handed down this gift, Allende admits that she has had a number of meaningful dreams over the years that have influenced both her writing and family life.La Casa de Los Espiritus is a sweeping epic that spans three generations of Chilean women- Clara, Blanca, and Alba Del Valle Trueba- from post World War I up until the Pinochet coup which overthrew the Allende government (Isabel's uncle) in 1973.
Having read her memoirs and current novel, by returning to her House of the Spirits, it is hard to tell if Alba Trueba is speaking or Allende herself, as this book appears to be a fictionalized autobiography of her family.
جولة لا تُنسى في بيت الأرواح:::::::::::::::::::::::::هذه رواية تنطق بقداسة الأنثىتمجد السحر الأنثوي البراقتحكي تاريخ الدولة الأنثى أو الأنثى الدولةتشيــليأرض الجنيات والساحرات وعرائس البحرهذه رواية السنوات البحرية المحفوظة في ذاكرة وراثية لا تضيع أبدا بل تنزلق بلطف عبر الأجيال النسوية الرحبة الصدور والطيبة كعجينة تراب من رحم الأرض خصبة وشغوفةوالشغف يكاد يصرخ متخطيا حدود العقل فيما سطرت إيزابيل بتاريخ عرق عائلتها النصف مخبولة والمعجونة بالسحرأو فلنقلتاريخ إنساني سطرته الأرواح الشفافةوهي من ذلك ال

Gabriel Garcia Marquez comparisons aside, it's hard to review this book without references to the magical realism and the narrative styles of Latin America.
Some background knowledge of the history of Chile does come in handy, especially when references are thrown in enigmatically.
The reference to Neruda, his real life exile, his political position...
all of these are only subtly mentioned throughout the plot, and he is never referred to by name.
They are part of the history, but they can not be told for the very censorship that this story speaks of.
With this story, Allende hooks us, reels us in, and binds us to these characters.
It is such an interesting story, spanning multiple generations and looking at the intricate relationships between the characters whilst the background features the post-colonial political struggles of Chile.I love the beautiful and wild South American setting.
This book has everything: family, politics, love, magic...
I always enjoy it when a novel can bring in many different elements that we love and get the balance right.My favourite character has always been Ferula (played by Glenn Close in the movie).
I find her the most tragic character and the one most buried beneath layers of complexity, even though she isn't ever really the novel's main focus:
"If this world is going to be a better place for our grandchildren and great-grandchildren, it will be women who make it so." -Isabel Allende.Phewee!The House of the Spirits is a tumultuous epic which chronicles four generations of two extraordinary families.The eponymous house is large: it boasts three courtyards and a Chiléan version of the Addams Family.Imagine too, if you will, Barrabás, the somewhat unnatural domesticated dog/horse, who was ill-advisedly fed olive oil until he covered the
Blurrgh!Following in the giant footsteps of Gabriel García Márquez, Allende lets rip with her own brand of el realismo mágico.Strong female roles abound in this captivating story, from Rosa (who has the maritime grace of a mermaid), to Clara (the soothsayer, whose apocalyptic visions include exploding horses and cows that are hurled into the sea), and Tránsito Soto (the entrepreneurial prostitute who symbolises success in the face of adversity).A mainstay of magical realism is that characters are expected to be beautifully realised, and Allende doesn't disappoint.
I even missed it when I was away from it!A self-indulgent afterthought...So skilful was Allende's writing that she turns Trueba's Latino machismo on its head.
4.5/5Esteban, Trueba,how does your childhood grow?With fear and guilt and such hard workand a love t

I have never in my life read a book where SO MUCH HAPPENS. AY. Generation after generation of DEATH AND DESTRUCTION, AMIRITE? I seriously don't know how to rate this book. Personally it wasn't a favourite, I found myself overwhelmed and bombarded with so much tragedy and injustice and found no love in any of the characters, but I really appreciated so much of what happened and really enjoyed learning more about magical realism.Here's my video review of this! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=awofw...
The story of the three generations of the Trueba family.
I wish that I could go back and start it all over again.Esteban Trueba.....hmmm, he is a monster (I think).
The book touches on magical realism and it was done perfectly, weaved into the lives of each of the Trueba family members.
However, I did not care for the male narration as much, from the point of view of Esteban Trueba.
I just found it too jarring when the narration would switch, taking me out of my dream-like trance that I was in listening to this magical book.A beautiful book that I hope to revisit one day again and savor the details of the wonderful story.
276. La casa de los espíritus = The House of The Spirits, Isabel AllendeThe House of the Spirits (Spanish: La casa de los espíritus, 1982) is the debut novel of Isabel Allende. The novel was rejected by several Spanish-language publishers before being published in Buenos Aires in 1982. It became an instant best seller, was critically acclaimed, and catapulted Allende to literary stardom. The novel was named Best Novel of the Year in Chile in 1982, and Allende received the country's Panorama Lite
La casa de los espíritus = The House of The Spirits, Isabel AllendeThe House of the Spirits (Spanish: La casa de los espíritus, 1982) is the debut novel of Isabel Allende.
The novel was rejected by several Spanish-language publishers before being published in Buenos Aires in 1982.
The novel was named Best Novel of the Year in Chile in 1982, and Allende received the country's Panorama Literario award.
This took me some time to read as I wanted to savour it for as long as possible and not have it end.
This is my first Allende novel which depicts an epic story of a Latin American family that spans 3 generations.
Weaved throughout are hints of mysticism, history, political unrest, cultural richness along with vivid descriptions of a cast of characters in which some evoke ethereal auras and others violent furies.Allende’s masterful style of writing is lavish with foreshadowing and thematic contrasts and brings as much satisfaction as a warm toasty fire on a cold winter day.
I did not finish this book. I didn't think it was one of the worst books for me but it was simply not destined to entertain me. There was some potential in it. But it was disjointed. I tried further than I should've, because it's a rec, and I've already got 3 likes from it, but when a book is spurned in favor of David Copperfield, that tells the whole story. Another thing that made me try harder than usual is the cover. It's so wonderful. But the book, not for me.
I don't have a big problem with that (as long as people realize what's going on) because Allende is a fine storyteller.
Other problems: Allende has always been an author who writes about strong women, but the women in this book, not so much.
Well, I realize it sounds like I hated the book, but as a story it was pretty enjoyable.
But the first half, which is more of a romantic love story, is pretty good.
I'm keeping this at 3 stars for the soft spot I have for Allende's later books, which tell stories that are (I think) more unique and compelling.
الحديث عن شخصيات وحكايات إيزابيل عامةً وهذه الرواية خاصةً يشعر القارئ بمدى ضحالة قدرته على السرد والوصف، فينتهي به الحال لا شعوريًا إلى الرغبة في أن يراسل كل من يعرفهم كي يروا بأعينهم ما رأى من جمال، ويمتعوا عقولهم بما استمتع من إبداع، ولكن هذا صعب المنال.هذه السيدة لا تٌملّ صحبتها، ولا أتمنى لقلمها أن يتوقف يومًا.
As personagens são a ponte entre os dois mundos, mas tão credíveis nos seus contornos reais e fantásticos que reforçam e unem os dois universos.À semelhança de Cem Anos de Solidão, também aqui se sente a presença constante do universo feminino.
Num espaço de machismo e brutalidade masculina, o domínio dos homens é por vezes ilusório, são as mulheres o símbolo da resistência, são elas que congeminam e concretizam as grandes ideias, que amam desmesuradamente, que sofrem e sacrificam-se pelos seus homens, e tecem uma teia labiríntica de entreajuda que corrige as falhas do poder masculino.Não foi a primeira leitura que fiz de Isabel Allende, mas foi a mais arrebatadora.
Isabel Allende's fictional Neruda counterpart likewise died under suspicious circumstances and his funeral is a significant event in the novel, as civilians on both the left and the right were severely shaken by the death, which foreshadowed several more years of a ruthless, murderous military regime.Chilean Nobel Laureate Poet Pablo NerudaMs. Allende's prose is both graceful and readily comprehensible, as she chronicles a captivating, concinnous tale chiseled in history and filled with passions inflamed by family, politics and power, love and lust, malevolence and mysticism.Highly recommended.
The defining magical realism book is Gabriel Garcia Marquez's 100 Years of Solitude (Colombia, 1967), which is - did I mention this?
In the meantime we have House of the Spirits (Chile, 1982), which is the best magical realist novel ever written, and believe me because I've read, like...four or so of them.The story follows three generations of women in the Trueba family: clairvoyant Clara, who marries anger-afflicted Esteban Trueba; their daughter Blanca, who carries on a secret affair with Pedro Terces Garcia, the son of Trueba's foreman; their daughter Alba, another mystic of sorts.
She had acquired the habit of gliding silently through the hallways and jumping at the child in the dark, howling through the doorways, and hiding live animals between her sheet, but none of this elicited so much as a peep from the little girl."It's just so damn hard to surprise a clairvoyant.This was my second reading of The House of the Spirits and, if anything, I enjoyed the magical elements of the book much more on this visit.A re-visit.A re-visit, spending this last week with the Trueba family, who in turn are re-visited by their past, which Allende spins into the narrative with such ease that reading the story of the different generations made me wonder at every turn of the page what happens next, and what happens to this or that character.
haha, so my sophomore honors english teacher decided he wanted to read a book with us for the first time, so he asked our department head to recommend a book.
we all died, because mr.
wells could not deal with talking about sex, and mr.
hackling knew this, and he assigned this book.
i mean, a couple of pages in, there's all this graphic rape in the fields going on!
i really loved the book though.
the imagery is some of the best i've read in forever, i adored blanca.
plus one of the best opening lines i've ever read.
La casa degli spiriti è uno di quei libri che non avrei mai voluto finire di leggere, uno di quelli che non riuscirò mai a togliere dai cassetti della memoria, uno dei pochi di cui mi ricordo infiniti dettagli a distanza di anni dalla lettura.All'inizio sono rimasta stregata da Clara, ma poi è arrivata Blanca...
E poi, infine, mi sono trovata a meditare sul fascino tenebroso di Esteban Trueba, uno dei personaggi letterari più riusciti che mi vengono in mente.Quello della Allende è un romanzo familiare che come struttura riecheggia, più visibilmente per alcuni aspetti, come il realismo magico, meno per altri, a Cent'anni di solitudine di Gabriel Garcia Marquez, che ho letto poco tempo fa.
El pasado y el futuro eran parte de la misma cosa y la realidad del presente era un caleidoscopio de espejos desordenados, donde todo podía ocurrir La casa de los espíritus es la historia de varias generaciones de una familia, donde el pasado, el futuro y el presente se entrelazan, a veces volviéndose indistinguibles, es similar en muchos aspectos a “Cien años de soledad” aunque en mi pensar no es una copia, y tiene méritos por contar una historia diferente, aunque utilice el mismo recurso de R
La casa de los espíritus es la historia de varias generaciones de una familia, donde el pasado, el futuro y el presente se entrelazan, a veces volviéndose indistinguibles, es similar en muchos aspectos a “Cien años de soledad” aunque en mi pensar no es una copia, y tiene méritos por contar una historia diferente, aunque utilice el mismo recurso de Realismo mágico, me gustaron muchas cosas de libro, como sus personajes, cada uno con sus locuras particulares…
—En casi todas las familias hay algún tonto o un loco, hijita —aseguró Clara mientras se afanaba en su tejido, porque en todos esos años no había aprendido a tejer sin mirar—.
Αν και είναι το πρώτο δικό της βιβλίο που διαβάζω, στον κόσμο του βιβλίου και όχι μόνο, η Αλιέντε δεν χρειάζεται συστάσεις.
Αυτό που μου έκανε την μεγαλύτερη εντύπωση είναι ότι τα γεγονότα του βιβλίου αρκετές φορές είτε σκληρά είτε βάναυσα είτε τραγικά περιγράφονται με αυτή την ήρεμη, ρομαντική αποδοχή που πραγματικά μόνο σε λατινόφωνους συγγραφείς την έχω συναντήσει.
Θα μου πεις και που θα το κατέτασσες; Έλα μου ντε… Το μαγικό στοιχείο έρχεται και δένει απίστευτα ομαλά με τον ρεαλισμό (σε μερικά σημεία σχεδόν νατουραλισμό, ειδικά προς το τέλος.) Η αφήγηση είναι ρεαλιστικότατη, δεν έχει αυτό το ονειρικό που συναντάμε στον λατινικό μαγικό ρεαλισμό.
Εξαιρετικό βιβλίο, παρά τον όγκο του και τις διάφορες εναλλαγές των ηρώων.
It makes sense that it would cover the entire family from grandfather to granddaughter since it’s a family story, but I hate how little time we get to spend with each character before s/he is whisked off to some other place, and only to return whenever the author feels like it.
But readers don’t get to see that process, and it’s frustrating to see the point they’re making when the viewers are just like, “Yeah, okay, if you say so.” So the protagonists don’t fall in love with their best friends in this book, but they might as well have.
In addition to Clara, the second Del Valle daughter who forsaw the future, communicated with spirits, and moved objects without touching them, and Blanca, her daughter who was castaway because of her forbidden love story with a communist peasant, and Alba, Blanca's daughter who had the green hair of her great aunt Rosa, the story of the book also revolves around Senator Esteban Trueba, the hardline right-wing, anti-communist, angry yet heartbroken oligarch; the Latin Patriarch of the Trueba family, and the man who built the big house on the corner.
The House of the Spirits has a lot of aspects I normally wouldn't even consider reading about, and I only started reading this book because it is a famous classic that's been recommended to me several times before.
Esteban Trueba marries the daughter of Severo del Valle, and the story of The House of the Spirits is the story of those two and their descendants, playing out over seventy years.
The writing is flawless, the characters are interesting and realistic, the story is absolutely captivating and the ending is simply beautiful (and the best part of the entire book).
[Disclaimer: This book was sent to me by the publisher with no obligation for a review.
But I did finally get to it.]How can so much happen in one book?
There are a lot of characters—but the story is mainly seen through the lens of three strong women in a South American family: Clara, Blanca and Alba.
Yet through supernatural and spiritual means, they persist.It's quite a magical story, with some mystical elements but is mostly grounded in the harsh reality of the world in which they live.
« Ogni tanto ho la sensazione che questo l’ho già vissuto e che ho già scritto queste stesse parole, ma capisco che non sono io, bensì un’altra donna, che aveva preso appunti sui quaderni affinché io me ne servissi.
Scrivo, lei ha scritto, che la memoria è fragile e il corso di una vita è molto breve e tutto avviene così in fretta, che non riusciamo a vedere il rapporto tra gli eventi, non possiamo misurare le conseguenze delle azioni, crediamo nella finzione del tempo, nel presente, nel passato, nel futuro, ma può anche darsi che tutto succeda simultaneamente, come dicevano le tre sorelle Mora, che erano capaci di vedere nello spazio gli spiriti di ogni epoca.
One of the problems with a family saga is that people inevitably have to get old and die and sometimes when the best character goes the story loses its focus. I enjoyed a lot of this book but felt that when one main character left the scene she was not really replaced by any of the others and my interest waned. I read on to the end but did not really become involved in the final chapters at all. Still a good book and I can understand why it is a favorite for many people.
Narra la historia de la vida de Esteban Trueba, su mujer, hijos y nietos, en la que los personajes siguen existiendo aún después de muertos.
Anche questa infatti è la cronaca esaltante ma sofferta della storia di una famiglia (la famiglia Trueba) generazione dopo generazione, attraverso i turbolenti episodi che hanno insanguinato il Cile della seconda metà del novecento, dall'avvento di Salvador Allende (cugino del padre dell'autrice) fino al colpo di stato militare di Pinochet, che non viene mai nominato (peraltro in tutto il libro mancano riferimenti storici e geografici al Cile, anche se il parallelismo è facilissimo da cogliere).Se quindi molta della letteratura sudamericana di quegli anni è fatta di storia, amore e magia, l'opera della Allende si distacca dalle altre soprattutto per l'accento forzatamente marcato sulla storia; e devo dire che le pagine dedicate alle immancabili passioni travolgenti e sanguinose sono proprio quelle che meno mi hanno convinto.
