https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79909.In_Patagonia
It was an offhand mention by a client, "Oh, have you read In Patagonia?" I picked it up on my way home and stuffed it into the already full backpack.Chatwin's writing got under my skin, and I don't necessarily mean that in a good way.
Chatwin's willingness to let the experience take hold and push the observer to internal places they might not want to go - once I was in Patagonia, I got it.
The wind talks to you, says those things back to you that are inside, that are supposed to stay down.Torres del Paine, ChileNear the end of our vacation we were in Ushuaia, Argentina in Tierra del Fuego - the bottom of Patagonia, the tip of the continent.
There is a good deal of myth surrounding Chatwin and even this book.
What Chatwin does do is spend a good deal of time recounting tales of those who have left their mark on Patagonia; mainly European types who settled there in the nineteenth century.
This leaves the reader wondering about the Patagonia of the time which Chatwin appears to neglect.
There are plenty of cowboy myths (Butch Cassidy et al) and tall tales and I did wonder what was the point of travelling just to look for traces of people from Europe and the US.
The author, allegedly inspired by schoolboy ponderings over the safest place in a post-nuclear war world and childhood atlas voyages, travels to Patagonia and travels around Welsh settlers, hunts for prehistoric mega beasts said to survive in the wilderness (view spoiler)[ as apparently they do her and there if you believe all the tales that are told (hide spoiler)] and generally comments on the history and cultures of the region.
Complaints from people mentioned in the book revealed that the literary result was fictionalised (view spoiler)[ shock and horror that a literary writer is not as it turns out a court reporter (hide spoiler)].
In its exploration of people encountered on his trip to Patagonia in the early 70’s, Chatwin makes magic as he uses his series of little quests and the actual places of his travels to make a doorway to imagination.
From its discovery it had the effect on the imagination something like the moon, but in my opinion more powerful.I know little about Patagonia, having only encountered it in occasional National Geographic pieces and in books as a remote place of passage by naval explorers and in tales of the 19th century Royal British Navy.
A copy of In Our Time packed in his rucksack, Chatwin busses from Buenos Aires into Patagonia, tramps around, meets people and collects their stories--much as Ishmael “goes whaling” or Bloom “runs some errands and thinks about stuff.” Updike, in his reviewer-guise of the Common Reader, on the occasion of Brodsky’s Venetian capriccio Watermark marvels at those writers “beyond academic conventions, beyond commercial hopes” who depart from, dispense with or otherwise transcend plot (or the story hooks of “travel writing”) to regale us with their “rare sensibility and curious fund of information; we are flattered to be in his or her company” (readers who complain that cetological lore trammels their breeze through Moby Dick miss the point: the prose of that long chapter is splendid).
A truly picaresque narrative sensibility (rare enough) and a curio-cabinet of odd learning Chatwin indeed has, plus an enriching assimilation of those masters of unsettling concision, Mandelstam and Borges.
This was published in 1977, and as I read it, I couldn't help but think of Edward Said's Orientalism, published a year later.
I admit to fantasizing about Said clobbering Chatwin over the head with a large rock.
But not before Said had given him some choice words that could not be reduced to faux-Hemingway dialogue.
There are so many vignettes in this, some with fabulous characters, but none of these are developed as the narrative lurches about like a penguin on acid.
So alright, I get it, the narrative is kind of like travel itself - you're never fully oriented.
The trip to Patagonia comes about when Chatwin sets out to find a piece of the mylodon skin.
This premise promised to be interesting but the mylodon story thread completely disappears until the very last chapter when Chatwin succeeds in his mission.The author appears to have chosen his subjects at random.
The book is arranged in a row of random snippets that would be better suited to weekly publishing in a magazine or on a blog.I don't know why this stream of consciousness travel memoir is considered such a classic and a must-read on Argentina.

It was cold and gray but I was in San Francisco.
I up a block crossed the street and discovered a book shop.
Ordering a half liter of house red and pad thai with tofu I opened the book.
My food was cold before I put the book down.
I chugged the wine and gnoshed as best I could.
Flushed from the wine and my sprint.
I opened the book again, when a man seated across asked me if Chatwin was Australian.
His name was Michel and he was from France and in California on holiday.
Above all, the book is a record of immigrants from all over the world, ex-pat communities and (more often than not) ex-pat hermits, trapped in a hostile environment with the trappings of their past surrounding them, some loathing their lives, others held in a thrall, as if Patagonia has bewitched them with its end-of-the-earth brutal beauty.The author writes in his signature detached style, adding a perfect power to everything he describes.
Whether being lectured to by a dying priest detailing the magic of the area, the unfound remnants of unicorn bones, or recounting the story of Jemmy Button, a young native kidnapped and taken to England to be gentrified before being returned to his tribe, he writes without judgement and with sympathy.

It wasn't a piece of a dinosaur, but another part of an extinct animal that had been found in Patagonia.The memory of it lived on in Chatwin's imagination and was the spark that made him give up his job and head out there in 1974.
It is not about the landscape or the countries, rather Chatwin spends his time there meeting people, finding out about them and then following the gossamer threads of their lives from place to place and backwards and forwards in time.To be honest, this wasn't quite what I was expecting.
This is the third time I have read this classic by the late Bruce Chatwin.
Although Chatwin has no great love for the literal truth, his transformations of people and events are fascinating.It is very much like the old joke about the patient who tells his therapist some made up stories, to which the therapist says, "That's very interesting." When the patient admits that he has been making all his experiences up, the therapist, without skipping a beat, says, "That's even more interesting!"To present a simple example (there are more in Nicholas Shakespeare's excellent introduction to this edition), because Chatwin was fascinated with Russian poet Osip Mandelstam, he takes a person whose passion in life is actually Agatha Christie and presents her as a devotee of Mandelstam.
This time, I read Chatwin's book while traveling through Patagonia myself.
I can see why the book remains so popular, irrespective of its literal truthfulness.
All good travel/ history should have one reaching for google maps and even reading (at worst) wikipedia and I have been doing that.
What more could one want from a book like this?
It has set the travel juices flowing as all good travel writing should.
It just reads like the writings of a literate backpacker.
One who wants to let his family and friends know about his great big adventure while on his travels.
The type of prose that gets posted on a personal blog or even at worst facebook.
"The book that redefined travel writing" says a quote on the back of my copy.
Firstly, it lacked direction, or itinerary, that would give me a clear scope of Chatwin's journey.
Thankfully, like I sad, most chapters were just a page or two long.
Chatwin talks about the anecdotes that people tell him, the colourful individuals that he meets, and the historical notes relating to Patagonia, but the region itself is somehow bleak and silent.
As a reader, I never felt like I was in a foreign locale, especially since a lot of locals Chatwin meets are expats who muse about the Old Country a lot.
E se all'inizio è interessante conoscere i retroscena della vita di Butch Cassidy e Sundance Kid, verso la fine ti viene proprio da dire che va bene la storia del bisnonno (?) e le sue avventure per mare e va bene il racconto della vita, e di come sono finiti in Patagonia, di quasi tutti gli allevatori di pecore che incontri...
mistero.Il racconto è fluido e interessante, ma mi è rimasta la sensazione di un libro un pò asettico, emozionalmente parlando, come se Chatwin l'avesse solo scritto, ma non davvero vissuto sulla propria pelle.
A really enjoyable read.
From stories of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid to tea with Welsh ex pats Bruce Chatwin keeps up an interesting narrative as he travels through Chile and Argentina in the 1970s.
His fascination Patagonia stems from a piece of Sloth skin that was in his grandmothers glass cabinet, sent home by her brother Charlie Milward.
Chatwin goes in search of stories of his uncle Charlie and hopes to find a piece of Sloth to replace the one his mother diaposed of when his grandmother died.
Very enjoyable
Che barba, che noia.Ho dovuto smettere la lettura a pagina 88 perché non ce la facevo più a leggere di gente scelta a caso tra i vari immigrati in Patagonia.
Veramente, non c’è neanche una descrizione di paesaggio •.Dopo aver letto Le otto montagne di Cognetti avevo voglia di viaggiare, scoprire nuovi posti anche solo con la fantasia.
Sono rimasta molto delusa, quindi , quando ho capito che, al posto di paesaggi incontaminati con animali esotici, avrei letto, in continuazione, di persone di ogni provenienza fuggite in Patagonia.
Anche le sezioni più storiche, in cui vengono raccontate le vicende di alcuni banditi famosi, rivoluzionari, scienziati, personalità che in generale hanno attraversato e segnato quel territorio, tutto mi è sembrato confuso, uno snocciolare dati senza tanti fronzoli, perlopiù confuso, privo di approfondimenti, un'attenzione per la narrazione capace di coinvolgere maggiormente il lettore.
Ho trovato difficoltoso proseguire nella lettura, nel trovare un filo logico nelle vicende che le collegasse l'una con l'altra ed il carattere aneddotico non mi ha soddisfatta minimamente, proprio perché le vicende non avevano alcun approfondimento, si sovrapponevano quasi, finendo per non lasciarmi nulla, nessun ricordo della Patagonia, una qualsiasi curiosità sugli argomenti trattati.
Patagonia is that stretch of land at the southern tip of South America, the major part of which is Argentina and the rest, Chile.
It's "In Patagonia." The preposition "in" makes a lot of difference.
Bruce Chatwin did not make a lot of description of the various places he had been in Patagonia when he started travelling there in 1974.
The book is more like a collection of mini-biographies of all sorts of characters: odd, tragic, triumphant, mythical, the strange and historical.
Most of the characters I have not heard about before, ever.
I think the best way to represent my experience with this book would be to include all that I learned and researched as I read it. I just need to transfer them from my written notepad.
Senelė jaunajam Bruce'ui paaiškino, kad tai - gabalėlis brontozauro, atsiųstas iš Patagonijos.Tad nenuostabu, jog Patagonija autoriui regėjosi kaip egzotiška, įvairių siaubūnų ir ekscentrikų pilna žemė.
Tačiau Chatwinas kaip magnetas traukia įvairius keistuolius, negana to, jis puikiai aprašo margą šio tyrų krašto istoriją: kolonistus (vokiečius, škotus, slavus), vietines gentis (ir jų išnaikinimo istoriją), gaučų kultūrą, netgi atseka Butch Cassidy ir Sundance Kid nuotykius Pietų Amerikoje (Patagonijoje jie plėšė traukinius ir bankus, nothing new).
Charlio istorija skamba kaip tikra klasika - Melville'is ir Conradas in a nutshell.Kai kurio sistorijos ir žmonių likimai tokie neįtikėtini, kad stebiesi, kaip taip įmanoma (žinoma, sąmonėje kirba abejonė kiek čia teisybės, o kiek Chatwino pagražinimo).Trumpai tariant, ši apie pasaulio pakraštį pasakojanti knyga, pasak, autoriaus, yra apie žmogaus prigimtį.
In this unusual piece of travel writing, Bruce Chatwin visits the remote area of Patagonia.
He intersperses descriptions of the places he visits with anecdotes about the people he meets and about historical figures (such as Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid) who had also found their way to this remote part of the world.This is not a traditional travelogue.
The narrative lurches around in a disjointed way, so that it is often hard to remember which place Chatwin has reached or why he is there.
The stories are often sad, moving, amusing or plain weird, but again they are disjointed and I often lost track of who I had read about and why.
This classic of the travel genre is a collection of short sketches of the Welsh shepherds and North American outlaws and Russian housewives and German farmers and Indian captives and the many others the author met on his travels through Patagonia.
I wonder if I would have enjoyed the book more if I had not read the introduction, had not realized that Chatwin held the truth loosely, that he had used people’s stories without permission.
I never felt connected to the individual’s I met in this book.
Maybe each sketch was too short to allow for that connection, or maybe he had a bit of ridicule in his presentation.
Sort of like a National Geographic article on steroids with ALL the warts included.
In place of photographs we get BC's pithy word pictures.
I'm keeping my National Geographic Atlas of the World(built to last) handy.- Great quote: "No one would want to drop an atom bomb on Patagonia."Moving South in a back and forth manner.
Kind of the way I ride my bike up a hill!
The author makes Patagonia seem like a lost colony of oddball earthlings abandoned to their own devices in deep space on a forgotten planet.Finished a couple of nights ago with this fascinating book.
En los setenta Chatwin hace turismo en la patagonia buscando los pasos de un viejo pariente. Mezcla buenos comentarios de otros escritores con las impresiones sin filtro que recoge de argentinos y chilenos; recordar que en los setenta estos países eran un lugar envenenado de la tierra. Hay algo muy agradable en la prosa o en la traducción.
Published in 1977, and written during the US- organized fascist junta of Pinochet, Chatwin discusses that elephant in the room in a highly selective and oblique manner, through his interview with a large landowner, dispossessed of her land, during the short-lived Allende presidency.
Through the testimony of some outraged old lady landowner gloating about what a good job the coup plotters did in rounding up the Marxists, he depicts the peons[Chatwin's word] as drunken fools who were incapable of preserving the ranch after land reforms from the Marxist Allende government.
Without the distortions of the Allende presidency and the fascist coup, the book is amusing and interesting.
Almost perfect. Chatwin wrote the introduction to "A Visit to Don Ottavio" by Sybil Bedford. I liked that book very much, and Chatwin did too. In Patagonia may be an homage to Beford. Both books are travel books written like novels. Full of interesting characters, vivid descriptions, wry humor, a surprising amount of erudition, this book is a gem.
The colonists came with few possessions but they clung to their family clocks	• Anselmo had a passion for the culture of Europe, the authentic, blinkered passion of the exile	• For Mrs Ivor Davies was dreaming of Italy, and of Venice in particular.
He pinned nudes to the roof, but somehow the girls were an abstraction whereas Rosaura was a real woman	• The layers of metaphorical associations that made up their mental soil shackled the Indians to their homeland with ties that could not be broken	• He was not a clever man but a wise one.
Chatwin fudged a few facts and many of the people he wrote about weren't too happy with their treatment.
Each chapter, some as short as 3-4 paragraphs, are recollections or observances or a bit of history about Patagonia and the people who live there.
With the exception of the continued focus on Uncle Charley near the end, most of these chapters were engaging and showed the author's flair for writing about places and people.Where the book fails, though, is that this is not a personal story at all.
It's rather pedestrian, actually.Chatwin gives a good portray of Patagonia, enhanced or not, and this book is worth reading.
