https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13990.Storm_Warning
Karal is generic in the first book and becomes increasingly perfect in the following books.
Lackey has always had a tendency to create Mary Sue's for main characters; her best protagonist, Vanyel, is not entirely free of this fault.
And any subsequent difficulties she may have had to consolidate power are routinely smoothed over by having V'kandis manifest himself.Elspeth was hardly my favorite character, but I missed the meaningful presence of Heralds.
In this book, Valdemar's leaders--who were so creative and visionary in previous books--can't figure anything out for themselves.
Yet no Heralds or Valdemaran leaders even consider them as a resource.
I liked this first one a lot, especially the "strangers in a strange land" aspect, with the protagonists both being new to Valdemar.
I like Karal a lot, too.
Also there are sheep eyeing things dubiously.
I don't know why I find it so hilarious, but I think "sheep eyed it dubiously" is the funniest sentence Mercedes Lackey ever wrote.The only problem is this book is so obviously the first in a series.
There's a lot of setup before the mage-storms actually happen, and the book ends rather abruptly.
I am eyeing you dubiously, Lackey.
Like the sheep.
I really enjoyed this book.
He is young enough to not be directly connected to previous events, but old enough that he has heard the lies of the corrupted officials for most of his life.
He was, mentally, still a young child trying to come to grips with everything that happened.
I bet he gets worse in the next book!
This book is really does emphasize how the need for fresh eyes and perspective can be essential in solving many problems.
I really enjoyed that message as well.
This series was given to me as a gift. I was a little hesitant based on the covers, but thought I'd give it a try (don't judge a book by it's cover, right?). It started out okay, built up a couple of interesting characters, but I kept expecting something to happen and nothing did. I finally gave up after about 2/3 through. Too much introspection by the characters, almost teenage angst by some of them, and I just started losing interest in them.
I forget that, while some of Mercedes Lackey's Valdemar books are exactly the kind of light summer reading I enjoy, I find others of them vaguely tedious. This is one of the tedious ones, much to my dismay.
It felt like the entire book was filler. Not sure I am a fan of the central character in this trio either.
Better to say that the story actually revolves around the Karsite envoy's secretary for the most part, while everybody tries to figure out what to do about Hardorn now that Ancar is dead and the Eastern Empire seems to be making a move toward them all.Oh yes, and let's not forget that there are now catastrophic waves of magic circling the world, distorting the land and warping animals into rabid carnivorous monsters.
Loved it!
I have to wait for payday tomorrow to pick up where I left off in other series, so I jumped ahead and read this on out of order.
Hopefully one day they will be a comprehensible timeline in my mind!I really loved Karal <3 His friendship with An'desha is just adorable!
His relationship with his mentor is awesome too, because it makes the faceless enemies of Karse seem so different.I've always adored the Valdemar books, but still haven't read all of them.
This was my first time reading through this one, and I can't wait to pick up more of them.
Hopefully I have more time to read!
And once the storms themselves arrive and start wrecking their havoc, it's pretty easy to fall into the rhythm of things and forget about how long and uneventful the first half of the book was.I'd rate this 2.5 if we could, but I tend to go by the goodreads definition for each star rating, and my opinion does fall closer to "I liked it" than "it was okay." I really enjoyed the character of An'desha, Karal eventually endeared himself to me, and I enjoyed watching the cast of the earlier series, especially the Mage Winds characters, making their appearances here and there.
Surely they well be able to work together with An'desha--formerly Mornlithe Falconsbane--and the young Karse cleric Karal to battle the mage storm that makes mage-work impossible, destroys the local weather, and changes plants and animals into monsters.
He is from Karse, Valdemar's ancient enemy-turned-ally to fight Hardorn and now the Eastern Empire.
Instead, Karal is a scholar who makes his Valdemar friends among the engineers and other 'blue robes' that we have heard of but never met in previous books.
I like him, and because he is likable, he gets a magic cat to be his best friend--because he's an envoy from Karse, he could hardly get one of the Valdemar ponies!
If you're trying to decide to buy this book, I think it comes down to two questions.
Go back and at try Arrows of the Queen, and if you like that, finish Talia's trilogy and move on to Elspeth's story beginning in Winds of Fate.
I didn't like this trilogy as much as the other Valdemar books published before this one: the two trilogies spoken of above and Vanyel's story, my favorite, that begins with Magic's Pawn.
I liked seeing Valdemar from an outside, and particularly Karsite perspective, that of their traditional enemies.
As much as I dislike the Mage Winds trilogy, I like the Mage Storms trilogy.
Karal is a great viewpoint character - foreign enough to bring some interesting background and insight into the familiar Valdemar court, naive enough to grow and change in satisfying ways, but neither self-pitying nor ineffectual.
Not all of the others are quite as successful, but in this book they pretty much don't come into play.Just like Valdemar is an idealized fantasy of liberal politics, the "true" Vkandis faith is an ideal of liberal religion.
A character at one point actually pretty much quotes Aslan's "naming of Names" speech from the Last Battle.
This trilogy is one of my least favorite.
It's like Lackey forgot what her damn characters were like.
There's this big thing about how the craftsmen are the only people who do logic right.
Excuse me but whaaaaaaaat the fuck are you talking about?
The heralds have always some of the best goddamned educated people in the country, and the mages are pretty much required to be logical to do magic.
The sudden need for a billionty more characters baffles and annoys me.
Plus I'm not a huge fan of the increased screen time for An'desha, or the main character Karal.
Not 4 because I liked Elspeth's story more (and I've given it a 4 stars).I love the way Ms Lackey "develops" her characters.
You think that nothing is actually happening but then you realize that you have learned a lot of things about Valdemar and her allies and ennemies : the politics, the theology, the peoples, the lands...And many answers are given.
Answers to questions you must have had when 1st reading the Queen's Arrow, answers about the Companions, about the magic and how the Mage War that happened so long ago still have bad effects/repercussions.I'm really enjoying this whole Valdemar thing.
The first of a triology. An interesting story of magic and science, the interaction of different (magical) societies, not always smoothly, and their struggles to meet a potentially overwhelming physical challenge. The good guys are interesting and engaging. The real bady, as I said, is a thing, not people. But there are some bad guys as well. But even they are interesting, and I don't find them to be truely evil, just ruthless and ambitious.
This is a 'review' for people who have read most of the Valdemar series.I give it a 3 because for me personally I don't want to feel charitable to "The Enemy"! I have spent the entire series until now hating Karse and am not ready to have a story from 'their' point of view especially this kids. He just really annoys me. Maybe it's because his god is Vkandis and he is a priest. I really don't know but this trilogy is my least favorite in the Valdemar series.
First story in Mage Storms—Karal comes to Valdemar from Karse as secretary for the new ambassador, his mentor Ulrich. He starts to learn about Valdemar and the mage storms. The Iron Emperor sends his potential heir to take over Hardorn. Lots of stuff going on.
Great series, really enjoyed the whole story and plot line. Also has great characters and builds up the world of valedmar even more.

My relationship with Lackey's work, particularly the Velgarth setting, is...complicated. I had bailed on it after the Winds trilogy, aside from the Skif book and the first Mags novel. But people I trusted said the Storm trilogy was good, and I decided to give it another shot. And it was enjoyable! A bit more complex than some of the previous books, especially in regards to more complicated villains. Still kinda...blunt about How The World Should Be, but not as thuddy. I'll pick up the next book as part of my summer-break comfort reading binge.
3.5 starsI liked it. It is #1 of the Storms trilogy, and I'm definitely reading the other 2 books. Negative impressions: Lots of preaching, and I don't like the protagonists too much. Neither An'desha nor Karal is a living boy. They are both cartoon characters, with cartoon personalities - everything exaggerated, with no subtleties. Positive impressions: Fortunately, the story was interesting enough to keep me reading.
Storm WarningAndesha and Karal are the center of this story. Both have strength and perseverance to stand and do what is needed in troubled times. The storm warnings cause great problems what is going to happen with the major storm.
I love all the Valdemar books and read them over and over again. Storm Warning is probably my favorite, after the Vanyel series books anyway, which are by far the best in the series. I highly recommend these books to anyone that loves epic fantasy.
Full review here:http://jamesgenrebooks.blogspot.com/2...Fun book. I know I say that often, but this series has been on my shelf for several years now, and it remains a smile inducing read.
the saga continues!
I swear my mind got read on the 'villain is too stereotypically villainous' bit.
Great.
Read first few pages. Meh.
One of my favorite series from Mercedes Lackey!
