https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61549.Mr_Popper_s_Penguins
The single greatest book of my childhood.
They had written their name in the front of it, because our mother has a weird obsession with putting our names on everything that was ours (especially books and clothes).
When I was sent home with one of the scholastic book buy handouts (which I was obsessed with), I told my mom that we did not own the book.
Yes...I lied to my mother in order to buy a seven dollar book when I was in third grade just so that I could put my name on the front cover.
Obviously, I am taking this too seriously, but I found the financial ineptitude of Mr. Popper most distressing.
Why have I shelved this as Hallowe'en read?Page 7, paragraph 4, second sentence: "I have papered all the rooms in the new apartment building on Elm Street"So, I had no problem cracking this open except, except, except...the copy I have been sent, contrary to what I ordered, is this movie tie-in version and there are photos from the film in the middle.The story itself is lovely fun with only a couple of domestic violence against penguin scenes; perfect for reading outloud.
Good thing that I was able to make up for that omission now, in late middle age!House painter Mr. Popper has always longed to be a polar explorer; after a letter to Antarctic explorer Admiral Drake, the admiral ships Mr. Popper a clever Gentoo penguin.
I completely enjoyed Mr. Popper’s fulfilling his dream and appreciated the long-suffering Mrs. Popper.
I believe that, even 70 years later, children would still love this book — and its intelligent, gentle penguins.
Surely, they’d envy the Popper children, Janie and Bill, who get to frolic with a flock of penguins!In 1939, Thimble Summer won the Newbery Award, and Mr. Popper’s Penguins was named a Newbery Honor book.
The past few months the kids and I have been on an "animal stories" kick for our bedtime reading, but of course we like funny animal books, not dead dogs and horses, so I turned to this.
I honestly didn't know what this book was about, except for what you can glean from the title (there's a guy, named Mr. Popper, he has penguins).
The story of how he gets the penguins, and what they do to take care of them, is delightful!
And the short chapters are perfect for bedtime reading.
I made all my pets read this to try and make them understand that they need to support ME for a change.
It's not a good book for getting the good life, unfortunately.
It's cute enough, though.
It was cute in a good way, not the "Wild hijinks ensue!" sitcomy problems way.
I think birds cause an awful lot of problems.
It was good that the book took that problem seriously.
I also liked that Mr. Popper was obsessed and got into the spirit of his hobby.
I love to know that kind of stuff about people.
I've fallen "in love" with places like that all of the time.
And thus, albeit I do feel a bit guilty and apologise to readers who love and adore Mr. Popper's Penguins, only two stars for me, as the ending, as where the penguins end up being sent, really does make me continuously cringe on a biological and ecological level, the fun and humour, the gentle entertainment of the story quite majorly and wholly, utterly notwithstanding (and that Mrs. Popper is seemingly absolutely fine with her husband basically being gone for years is also a bit strange, but actually, while this does somewhat bother me, it does not chafe even remotely as much as the fact that the penguins are being sent to the North, to the Arctic).
For those of you who haven't read the book, the basic premise is that a house painter who spends his off-hours reading about (and writing to) explorers in the South Pole receives a penguin in the mail from one of those explorers.
In the end, he transforms his basement into an ice rink (an idea my daughter wholeheartedly supports, by the way), and spends more than his wife ever thought possible on fish and canned shrimp.I won't tell you how an out-of-work house painter manages to pay for all that (wouldn't want to spoil the ending), but I will say that the process is highly entertaining for all involved.
This time around, I thought it got off to a slow start, and it struck me that it would be odd today for the main (human) character in a children's book to be an adult, although the rumpled, absent-minded, polar-fanatic house-painter Mr. Popper is hardly a typical grown-up.
His children, Janie and Bill are rather shadowy undeveloped characters in the background -- I don't think we're even told how old they are.
Surely in 1938 penguins were just as much a staple of zoos and pop-culture as they are now -- but judging by this book, maybe not.
There has apparently been a resurgance in interest in this 1938 childrens' book since I have been seeing it everywhere I go.
The story while cute and age appropriate for 4-8 y/o seemed inadequate in some way...
even for a kid's book.
The father was so obsessed with the penguins that his family always came in second.
This might seem cute and funny in a children's make believe story but in the real world when a parent spends their last dime on a hobby or obsession to the detriment of their family it just isn't so funny.
My son the nature-lover, who is not as avid a reader as his brothers, is a die-hard fan of this book. His enthusiasm began in school when his teacher read the book to his class, and before she could finish, he persuaded me to bring it home to read at bedtime. It's the charming and often funny story of an ordinary house painter who dreams of Antarctica. When he receives a penguin as a surprise gift, the adventures begin! The book was written in the 30's, but it really transcends time. A fun follow-up to "March of the Penguins!"
Mr Popper is a DIRTBAG, and this book is ridiculous. I am sure it's because I'm too old to come to the book for the first time - my 4yo loved it until the end - but I couldn't get past the dumb dumbness of the whole situation.
So he reads about it, thinks about it, dreams about it, watches films about it, listens to a radio show about it....until he manifests a penguin on his porch!
This is the correct formula that Law of Attraction teaches and how perfect for children...He holds his desire from a place of happiness (very important) and he is not bothered at all by reactions from others that may trip him up (like his wife who is always worrying about money).
So, Poppers gets into despair.( This wasn't really what he wanted.) Then he seems to get back on track while remembering his original desire: to transport the penguins from the South Pole to the North Pole.....But this was rather puzzling!
o poveste simpatică cu mulți pinguini curioși și o familie dispusă să le încurajeze năzbâtiile.
I couldn't keep reading because I kept thinking that the penguins could never survive in such a hot climate and Discovery Channel realism was intruding on the lighthearted nature of the story.
This was a fun book to read, which I valued for it's good old-fashioned lifestyle and language, and the imaginative and hilarious plot. It's one of those older books that are popular with kids for a reason, and adds a little fun to life.
Mr Popper is a mild mannered house painter who loves to listen to radio programs about penguins.
So when an Admiral sends him a REAL penguin, he is delighted to have it for a pet.
Only "Captain Cook" gets lonely, and needs a mate, so the Admiral sends "Greta".
Soon there are 12 penguins living in the Poppers basement.
And times are tough and the Poppers don't have much money to feed those penguins.
What to do?This is a warm, funny, old fashioned family story that makes a wonderful read aloud.
Sure to be loved by penguin lovers of all ages!
Review written in 2nd grade: This is a very good book of a man that got one penguin in a box. After that he got one more. Then the new penguin got babies. There were ten penguins after the babies came. In the end of the book he goes to the south pole. If you want to know all the funny (sic) that happens to the Popper family, read the book. You can get it [in] our library.
I read this when I was eight or nine, and I remember really enjoying it. :)
She seemed to really enjoy the book as we read it.We read this book as a part of her school's newest book reading adventure, One School, One Book and each day we had to read two chapters and then the next day, the kids would answer trivia questions to try and win prizes.
It was a great way to get them to do more than just read the words, they had to comprehend what they were reading and hearing us read to them.As for the book, you can definitely tell this was written many ages ago based on the dialect and the words used when the characters were speaking.
I can't believe all the years I taught and I never read this book. I felt like I was missing out. The penguins adapted quite nicely to life in the big town. I'd recommend this book to an 8 or 9 year old. Great group read too. Then they can take a quiz
She really loved it and maybe I have to just remind myself that this is a book for the "younger folk."As an adult, when I read this, I just thought it was just Silly...silly, as in...this story doesn't make any sense at all and is just full of nonsense.
If he really were a good explorer/scientist, he would know that penguins can't really survive very well in a warmer environment and would Mr. Popper have the means of taking care of it?2.
Briefly:1.
Didn't like the dad leaving at the end with everyone happy or fine to see him go.
The mom was just glad she didn't have to clean up after him.
Heartless.
2. The references to money.
Poor example of money management and debt acceptance.
Absolutely not principles I am teaching my children.
3. Not a lot to like in mr popper.
He was untidy.
Wasn't worried about providing and deemed it his wife's problem to handle the money to feed the family.
Just three quick reasons I didn't like it.
Not any moral principles or behavior I want emulated.
O carte care-i învaţă pe copii că-i ok când bărbatul îi zice femeii "plec sho în lume, vin peste un an sau doi", pentru că ea răspunde în genul "abia fac mai uşor curăţenie iarna fără un bărbat în casă". Chiar dacă mai are doi copii de crescut. Viaţa e frumoasă.
I enjoyed reading this book with my daughter. 😎
Nếu tên tuổi của James Cook gắn liền với những chuyến hải hành lẫy lừng ngang dọc các đại dương, thì Thuyền trưởng Cook trong cuốn sách cũng tạo dựng nhiều “chiến công” không kém phần hiển hách.
Nếu cuộc sống nhà Popper đã đảo lộn từ khi có Thuyền trưởng Cook, thì khi có thêm mười một chú cánh cụt nữa, ta có thể hình dung mọi sự trở nên càng rối reng đến chừng nào.Với trí tưởng tượng tuyệt vời và phong cách dí dỏm, các tác giả đã sáng tạo ra thật nhiều tình huống hài hước, khiến cuốn sách đã hấp dẫn còn thêm thú vị.
5 starsLexile Level: 910L.Like Winnie the Pooh, Richard and Florence Atwater’s Mr. Popper’s Penguins has some element within it that spurred this youngster to read the story again and again.And again.Unlike many children’s stories, Mr. Popper’s Penguins’ protagonist, Mr. Popper, (Mr.
And, the reader gleans a strong marriage / partnership as well as weighted and balanced individual dispositions.Although comic situations arise, the authors hold back and allow a certain realism, (the real behavior of penguins versus personified behavior), to support the narrative.
The author’s protagonist, Mr. Popper, consequently evokes a question: “Despite individual hardship, marriage, and parent responsibilities, can an adult still dream?With this delightful children’s classic, the authors say, “Yes. Yes, they still can.”Wonderful.
When the newspaper published the photo of Popper it was printed "in rotogravure." I had to look this up and found that this kind of printing method uses a cylindrical plate instead of a flat plate.
Mrs. Popper didn't want to leave to go on the road with the penguins and leave things in the house "at sixes and sevens" while they were away.
I know this is a fantasy story and back in 1938 a fun book for children might have helped young readers in learning about penguins, but today we are so into environmental issues, it was hard for me to get past the idea of "using" the penguins.
Started this book with my son. It's cute and we both really enjoyed it. Not one of my favorite children's books but it's a good book to read with your child or alone if you want.
I loved that Mr. Popper ultimately tried to do what was best for the penguins, but it annoyed me somewhat that he left his family.
I would have enjoyed the ending more if they had been able to choose whether or not to go, or at the very least, he had been able to discuss it with Mrs. Popper.
I get that it's a children's book, but the idea of them discussing everything up to that point regarding the penguins, then having him decide in the split second between learning that Admiral Drake intended for him to go and actually setting sail seemed completely counter to how their relationship worked.
