https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62571.The_Keep
I have also seen it mentioned on numerous top-ten lists pertaining to Vampire Horror (although, to be fair, the author is very specific about the nature of his antagonist – but this is spoiler territory so I won’t go there).So, does it live up to expectation?Something in that air caused the hair on his arms and at the base of his neck to stand on end.If you have read any of the Repairman Jack novels, you will already know what to expect from this book, although admittedly The Keep leans more toward straightforward horror whereas the Jack books follow a genre mishmash template.
Erich Kaempffer is a member of the SS and has just been promoted to become Commandant of Ploiesti – a new concentration camp in Romania, which is set to rival Auschwitz.
Something is murdering my men.” Imagining the problems to be partisans, Kaempffer sets out for the Keep.
Eventually, he and Woermann track down Professor Theodor Cuza, an academic who has studied the Keep for most of his life, and bring him, and his daughter, Magda, to the Keep to help him solve the mystery of who is killing Woermann’s men.
This is a horror novel which has a very interesting setting and characters.
It's Castle Wolfenstein - Zombie Nazi edition!
There are Nazis in a Castle - or rather a Keep, in Romania, in the Transylvanian Alps, and there is something undead inside, and our story is set in 1941.The SS take over an abandoned haunted Keep.
The SS start dying horrible deaths - and Nazi's being turned into chunky bits is always a good thing.
I can't help but think back to the black and white war comics I used to read, but instead of Nazi's going 'Aarghhh!
Englander!' It's more like 'Aarghhh!
Vampir!'It's a quick easy read.
Such a fun book.
Vampires and Nazis — what could go wrong?
An isolated keep full of ne'er do-wells from the Third Reich, but oh man do they get their comeuppance at the hands of a very old bro who is pissed as hell that someone be all up in his hizzouse.
But, the book was published in 1981, so I think you have to give it some slack as a product of the times.
All in all, I highly recommend this book.
Wilson is a skilled story-teller who knows how to write a good plot and intertwine a story with healthy mix of terror romance and history.The story is about The Keep an intriguing fortress where one by one men are murdered by a mysterious being.
The victims are german soldiers, I found myself backing the perpetrators blood thirst of ridding The Keep of the invaders of Romania, but there seems to be a more sinister purpose to what is taking place.
This story has a very nice romance between a Jewish Romanian and a mysterious man.
This is one of the worst books I have ever read.
The writing style is very cliché - it feels like he has taken whole sentences from other horror writers and strung them together to create this work.
The plot is forseeable, the characters are cheesy and annoying, the story seems to be rooted in pseudo-history...not quite accurate enough to seem like a real era, and not quite fantastical enough to transport the reader into another realm.
I rolled my eyes consistently throughout the book, and I forced myself to finish it believing that it might possibly redeem itself at the end.
Paul Wilson books that were lent to me.
The set-up is quite good, with something unleashed from its hold in an abandoned keep stalking the German soldiers that have taken over said structure in the midst of WW2.
For about a third of the novel, Wilson keeps the pace rattling along nicely, as the thing from the crypt murders one soldier a night.
The entity is equal parts menacing and mysterious, but clearly does not have good intentions at heart, creating quite the interesting quandary: Who does the reader root for?
The Germans and the SS soldiers that join them?
The premise is great: Nazis move into a keep in Romania and start dying one-by-one at the hands of what can only be described as a vampire.
Nazis, vampire, and even zombies near the end.
But it falls apart near the end as the truth of what the mysterious hero Glenn really is, and his connection to the vampire in the keep.
Even the premise, promised on the back of the novel "Nazis vs a Vampire" falls apart as Glaeken takes the center stage and all of this ancient prehistory nonsense kicks in.
Maybe reading the rest of it will improve the ending of this book.
I remember this book terrifying me when I read it in the early eighties. However, the horror is all reserved for the early chapters - towards the end, it becomes more of a thriller.This one is really old-fashioned. A centuries-old evil and its centuries-old nemesis fighting it out in a Transylvanian castle during the Nazi occupation. There is also a Jewish exorcist (well, folklorist, actually) and his beautiful daughter in the mix.If you love vintage ghost stories, this should be your cup of tea.
Rating = 3.49 starsThis is a sort of Lovecraftian historical fiction, if you will. Or even if you won't. Romania, 1941. The Nazis encounter an ancient entity almost as evil as themselves. Only a Jewish scholar and his daughter and a mysterious red-haired man can save them. I liked this older work better than Wilson's Repairman Jack novels, which tend to be overlong and feel repetitive after you've read a few of them.
a vampire killing nazis? my kinda shit right here lads
This becomes a very important aspect of this story as it deals very much with the nature of evil, how humanity's actions perpetrate evil and its sickness in the world.The characters were engaging, making this supernatural story feel very grounded in some respects.
The key point that I am glad that Wilson makes clear is that not all the Germans supported or believed in what Hitler was doing.
Suffice it to say, if you like arcane supernatural fiction as I do, you might enjoy these aspects of this book.
Read and re-read, a really good vampire story set in WW2.
There was a sourcebook out that gave more backstory to this tale, also worth reading but nearly impossible to find.
Worth noting all 5 books stand alone nicely for those who don't like to read a series.
While Repairman Jack was introduced in these stories, it was only in the last few, and these are not a prequel.
This is an original story series that first introduced the character.
It was his popularity that spawned the spin-off RJ book series.
and was a good influence in the sourcebook that's hard to find.
SS Nazi troops in an old spooky castle being terrorized by an unknown ancient evil(the cover of my copy gives away the monster) sounded great to me.
The Keep was filled with many potentially great themes that could have been explored, but it ended up feeling like F.
Paul Wilson was brainstorming awesome ideas and then tossing them away.
Wilson went into more detail with the absurd romance going on in the story.
Themes such as the Nazi SS being pitted against a timeless evil being or a Jewish guy reluctanly finding salvation in the power of the cross would have been worth going into more.
A German regular army company has been ordered to occupy a keep in a mountain pass in Romania because it has a good view of any coming and going foot traffic.
The commander, knowing that it's not a normal enemy, requests that his company be moved elsewhere.The local German headquarters responds by sending out a contingent of SS men, led by a despicable Nazi death camp commander whose next assignment, after the investigation, is to start up a new death camp in Romania.
I can't think of a higher praise for this kind of book.It's definitely a have-to read if you're a vampire fan looking for something fresh.
Sellest lihtsast ideest saaks luua niivõrd vinge loo, ent autor piirdus kahjuks vaid keskpärasega.Stoori on nagu mõni Allo!
Süžee kulgeb muidu õuduslugude traditsioonilist rada pidi; selles poleks iseenesest midagi negatiivset, kui vahepeal esineks ka mingeid twiste, mingeid põrutavaid üllatusi; kahjuks on neid minimaalselt ning enamikku toimuvast on võimalik juba mitu lehekülge varem ette ennustada.Tegelased on masendavalt ühedimensioonilised.
Üleüldse kõnelevad kõik Holokaustist nii endastmõistetavalt, nagu sellest iga päev lehes kirjutataks – seda ajal, mil ka natside endi seas kogu värgist vaid üksikud asjassepühendatud teadsid.
Kindluses on olemas kogu kataloog ja nad ei mängi loos mitte mingit rolli.
Milleks kõik see?Nagu öeldud, ma tõesti lootsin raamatust enamat.
I ran across it on the "Best Heroic Fantasy" list.
I wouldn't really rate it "Heroic Fantasy"...anyway.Is the villain really the "proto-vampire"?
It's not a bad book but I've read a lot better.Th two main characters are linked together,immortal since what we are told is the first age of the world.
This is listed (see title above) as #1 in the Adversary Cycle.
They retroactively became part of a cycle drawn in, in 
My understanding is that Mr. Wilson wanted to title The Tomb, Rakoshi, the name of the creature he uses in the novel.
Mr. Wilson did an admirable job of mixing history, horror and romance in a gripping, chilling tale of a monster haunting a mysterious keep in the mountains of Romania during World War II.The cast of characters really made the story what it was.
Molasar was a suitably evil, chilling villan, and Glenn, despite not being, in his own words, a totally "good" guy, was nevertheless a credible hero.I thoroughly enjoyed this horror tale from Mr. Wilson and will certainly read more of his books in the future.
The story takes place before America's entry into WWII.A detachment of German army soldiers is sent to the keep, which is situated so that anyone coming or going through a certain pass which leads to the invaluable Ploesti oil fields can be spotted.
Once the SS commander realizes that the strange deaths of the Germans are not being caused by partisans in the countryside but rather by some nameless evil force, he sends for an expert in the area, a Jewish professor who is soon to be "resettled" with his daughter Magda.But (there's always a but, isn't there?) there is another who is interested in the goings-on at the keep....Fun, fast and easy to read.Recommended for good clean horror reading fun.
This book was a disappointment to me. I was hoping that the idea of a no of SS troops billeted in the aptly named "Keep" would be the recipe for a great story. However this never developed and the usual battle of good v evil occurred mixed in with a rather odd love story, resulting in a somewhat boring and pedestrian tale...not recommended!
The strange keep with its thousands of crosses generates greed and in damaging the keep the German soldiers release and ancient evil.
However the Nazi evil is small potatoes compared to this ancient version.An professor of History sits at home ill and out of work, he and his daughter who cares for him are dragged into the mountains because of their knowledge about the keep and the local history.
Stories of normal, evil and neutral people placed into a situation that is manipulated by mere mortal man and ancient powers.
The book started off strong for the first quarter to third but once the Nazi reinforcements arrived, it began to slow down and got heavy pretty quick. Specifically, the author could have thinned some of the discussion and details of the subplot between the officer and the Major but the story remained engaging enough to keep reading. The last 75 - 100 pages made it all worthwhile, though! Without giving any spoilers, I'll just say this was a new and welcomed twist to an old story. 4 solid stars overall.
I think this book might have been a much more entertaining read if read when it was first released.
Paul Wilson's The Keep feels like a hundred different books I've read.
Which isn't to say that this is a bad book.
Two stars is "It was okay".
And that's what's wrong with this book.
It's just okay.
It is, however, an interesting take on vampire lore, but I will leave that for you to discover for yourself and (view spoiler)[find out that there is no vampire lore in this book after all (hide spoiler)], which also works in The Keep's favor, in my opinion.
To date, the best Wilson I've read. Pretty creepy story where the bad guys (the Nazis) meet a really bad guy -- or thing, in a castle located in the Balkans. The setting is damn near perfect. I think the story suffered a bit at the end when Wilson shifted gears to throw a bit of a curve ball at the readers expectations. I don't think that was needed, but overall a minor complaint.
This was one of the most chilling little books I've ever read. Totally creeped me out. Loved it. Set during Nazi occupation of a Keep and all the strange happenings around them. This is actually a part of a long series of books called Repairman Jack. This would be a pre-quel
This was my first foray into Wilson's "Secret History of the World" and it fueled my interest in reading more! The book flows easily and keeps the reader guessing until the very end. Highly Recommended!
Read it several times over the year, absolute classic.
I have read all 15 of the Repairman Jack novels over the last several years, (not counting short stories and the prequel histories), not realizing that the Adversary Cycle should really be read in parallel.
But as it is, I am happy to say I continue to come back to FP Wilson novels even if Repairman Jack ain’t in it.Since I’ve already consumed the second of the Adversary cycle, The Tomb (which is also the first of the Jack novels), it’s now on to [book:The Touch|219416.
A garrison of German soldiers during WWII are sent to occupy a small, oddly constructed keep in Romania.
The first night there, two of the soldiers, in an attempt to steal a gold cross, disturb the keep's only occupant.
In the following days, they don't make it through the night without a soldier being killed.
There is also great tension between the SS commander and the German army commander who isn't a Nazi and has become disillusioned by the war.
A great premise, smooth writing and good characterization of the two battling German commanders.
Ф. Пол Уилсън е от авторите, които знаят как да пишат и как да привлекат интереса на читателите си.
Определено съм си поставил за цел да се запозная в детайли с цялостното му творчество.
Обстановката е описана в детайли и обгърната от ужас и мистерия.
Уилсън е майстор в изплитането на мрежите на съспенса.
Колкото и суперлативи да използвам, няма да са достатъчни, за да опиша този не толкова познат в България писател, на който Стивън Кинг и Дийн Кунц открито се възхищават.
Определено всички почитатели на хоръра и трилъра трябва да му обърнат внимание.
Със сигурност няма да съжаляват.
