https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/576335.Chitty_Chitty_Bang_Bang
(B+) 77% | GoodNotes: Is this the real world, or is it magical? This family is much too quick to accept that their car is enchanted and sentient.
You know that moment when you skim the first 50 pages of a book adn then decide you know all about it and go make a 2hr movie from it??
But there you go!!!• No old navy grandfather either• Although they do sell Toot Sweets (except they're called Crackpot Whistline Sweets) so at least a little faith was restored thereALL IN ALL: It's not that I care that it was different from the movie...I just wasn't so into the whole "lowkey robbery" thing happening.
It was cute and fun and small human creatures who like cars would probably enjoy this.(ALSO WHAT EVEN.
The Pott Family find themselves out exploring the rural English countryside one day when things take a slight detour and Chitty begins showing off her wonderful capabilities (as many will know, cars prefer to be 'she' and Fleming discusses this).
A wonderful story that will keep the young reader hooked until the very last pages.I will admit that I had heard of this book (and movie) a long time ago, but it is only now, when asked to do a quick buddy read, that I decided to go all in.
Fleming teases readers with what might be around the corner, beginning with talk of a magical sweet, but soon pushes the story well away from inventions and into the fast-paced world of travels and trouble.
At that point, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang made it onto my list of books I wanted to read.
After a bit of sprucing up, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang joins the Pott family.
What adventures they have!I still love the movie with Dick VanDyke (the whole scene with the whistling candy had me humming Toot Sweet in my head).....but....the book is just happy, lovely and wonderful!!!The audiobook I listened to is narrated by Andrew Sachs.
I hope someday they make a movie that follows the book....the story really is great!!
"I'm not interested in your Shitty Shitty Gang Bang," is essentially what I told my bestbud back in elementary school when he was trying with all his ernest might to make me see the light and enjoy the wholesome, family-fun goodness that is this book.
The deus ex machina of a magic car makes it all too easy.Nonetheless, these are fun tales and I think in a year or two I may attempt reading them to my young niece, who will no doubt say to me, "I'm not interested in your Shitty Shitty Gang Bang."
This is the only novel he ever wrote that wasn't part of the James Bond series and it's a bizarre little oddity.If, like me, your only previous experience of Chitty Chitty Bang Bang is the movie, you're in for some surprises.
I'd actually quite like to see a new movie adaptation, perhaps animated rather than live action, that is faithful to the book.I was pleasantly surprised to find that the first act of the book takes place a stone's throw from where I live.
I was also pleasantly surprised to find that the book is nowhere near as twee as the movie.Overall, this is a nice little children's book and I'm glad I finally got around to reading it.
"Never say no to adventures.
Always say yes.
Otherwise you'll lead a very dull life."Too, too cute!
I'm glad this lighthearted kids' novel was selected as a buddy read.
The way Commander Pott took care of the car reminded me so much of my father-washing, waxing, spot check before and after driving.
So the book is not at all like the movie, which I didn't expect, but it was still brilliant.
The children are brave, the father is ingenious, there's actually a mother.
Bad guys galore to vanquish.
And the magical car who names herself.
James Bond, the children's book begat James Bond, the musical begat James Bond, the stage show. But where can we go from here? It occurred to me to google "James Bond Ballet", and I did at least find this picture:Surely it's now just a matter of time before it actually happens?
What a surprise to find just how different the movie is from the book!
This is very much Ian Flemming, focused on the car and the adventure.
There is no 'Truly Scrumptious'; there is no weird castle with singing toys and a king who hates kids.
There IS a wonderful magical car, and exact descriptions of what it does.
There IS a great adventure with a trip to France and a scary thief.
A great book for boys, and it stands the test of time.This was Ian Flemming's last book before he died, and his only children's book.
(from author info in book)
I couldn't sit through the Disney adaptation of Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, but I remember it from my childhood.
It was written by James Bond author Ian Fleming while convalescing from a second heart attack.
A friend brought Fleming a copy of a book by Beatrix Potter and suggested he write up the story he used to tell his son before bed.
The inherent nostalgia in imagining Fleming telling this story to his son was also nice to think about.
There were a couple other people in the story but I couldn't tell you a thing about them.
In a couple chapters the family adopts the car.
I loved this children's book! The story was fun and Fleming's writing just draws you in. A fast, enjoyable book for all ages. Now I'm going to watch the movie!
So much fun!
The kids and I listened to this on audio because David Tennant does the narration and it was excellent.
When reading along with the text, one of us noticed that our print edition changed a number of words.
For example, pocketbook was changed to wallet.
Yes, an American is more likely to say wallet than pocketbook but this book was not written by an American and I hate it when publishers change books when they are published in the states.
If I had known changes were made, slight as they might be, I would have ordered an edition from the UK.
Chitty Chitty Bang Bang is a magical car.
It can do things that other cars cannot, which is very fortunate for the family that purchases it.
The book is one big adventure for the family of 4 and their car.
The adventure is directed at young children and I think that children would enjoy it even more than I did.
There's lots of action and I think it could be suspenseful for younger kids.
Final Score: This book is filled with a bit of humor and lots of adventure.
I think it would be a great book for elementary school kids.
Years later I was told that the original book Chitty-Chitty-Bang-Bang was written by Ian Fleming...yes, the same Ian Fleming who was the creator of James Bond.
Strange fun indeed.As to the original book of Chitty-Chitty-Bang-Bang: The Magical Car, it starts off introducing us to Caractacus Pott and his family.
In reading the book I pictured the narrator as an extension of Ian Fleming and the style existing to put for the feeling of Fleming reading the story to his own children.As the plot continues, the family finds out more about the very special and magical qualities of Chitty-Chitty-Bang-Bang.
Very cute story."The children, in fact the whole family, sat on the tips of their behinds, if you see what I mean, and waited excitedly to see what would happen." Ha ha!"'Stone the crows! There's a perishing motor-car overhead!'" Great expletive, that."rumbustious children" Great adjective not used in the States.
In fact, when I started listening, I thought I would go ahead and watch the movie after I got done and have decided that I do not want to do that - I want my memory to be of this delightful book, read by the amazing David Tenant [WHAT a fabulous narrator he is].
****SIDE NOTE**** IF you are listening to the David Tenant version, make sure you listen to the little interview at the end [after the secret recipe].
THAT is a fun little interview that shows just how charming Mr. Tenant is.
Who else but James bond could have a relationship with a woman named Truly Scrumptious.After a quick read of the children's book, the James Bond film connections say more about the films sharing Albert "Cubby" Broccoli as producer.
After the vehicle is restored, it takes its new family on a magical, flying adventure.
Don't worry, about 10 pages later, that villain is off the streets and your families are again safe for your own flying car adventure.With the possible exception of children who are really interested in restoring old cars, this story has become a quaint reminder of the past.
If you've seen the movie, the book is very different; the only real constants are the children and their father (though their mother is still with them in the book), and of course Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, the eponymous magical flying car.
The adventures the family does have in the book are slightly more grounded in reality—but only slightly!The audiobook is narrated by David Tennant, who reads with obvious enjoyment and an excellent command of voices and accents.
Between the text and the narration, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang is a perfect audiobook for young children, and a treat for the whole family.
Chitty-Chitty-Bang-Bang was released two months after Fleming's death, and for critics who couldn't buy into his greatness as creator of a legendary spy who would make cinematic history for untold decades, there was more to consider: this cheerful book about a family that sticks together no matter what and doesn't take life for granted.
Ian Fleming's most read books are Casino Royale, Goldfinger, Doctor No, and other James Bond classics.
I'm glad Ian Fleming bequeathed at least one children's story to the world; his legacy is significant, and it won't fade as long as James Bond and Chitty-Chitty-Bang-Bang find their way into the hands of readers.
Another classic I treasured, and another Disney adaptation I loathed. The movie is similar to the book in that there is a car with the given name of Chitty Chitty Bang Bang. In fairness though, this is a very short story, with only three chapters (each fairly long chapter being one act), and would have been very difficult to do as a movie. But still, this is vastly more entertaining, inventive and scary than the movie. And I still want a toot-sweet to this day.
4.5 stars. You know that you're reading a book by the creator of James Bond, when the magical car runs into gang of gangsters on her first ride..:-) And although I'm not a big fan of JB, this was very enjoyable read.
Completely different from the movie, this family adventure is a delightful read-aloud for young children.
I had recently completed reading Ian Fleming’s Bond series, so his “Chitty Chitty Bang Bang” came to mind.
Another difference was the memorable dance number at Scrumptious Candy.
Chitty on the sandbar was pretty much identical between book and movie, but after that early episode, the movie had the adventurers in a Bavarian kingdom with child snatchers and robot dolls and such.
This was totally different and quite a bit underwhelming when compared to the movie.
And there are additional books in the series which might capture the magic of the movie.
However, as an adult, upon finding that it was written by the same author as the James Bond novels, Ian Fleming, I thought I would one day like to give it a go.
The fact that the audiobook version I listened to was narrated by David Tennant was of course a nice bonus.I think that this is one of those classic children’s stories that doesn’t translate well to an adult reader.
I liked the idea but I think it was a challenge to get this much plot into this short of a book!
Delightful!! Netflix should make a series of these. I have no idea why they changed so much for the movie.
The kids and I listened to this on a road trip to go camping. It’s short, well written, and fun. David Tennant does an excellent job narrating!
I'm betting people who loved the original book did not care for the musical movie adaptation, because they are basically nothing alike except for the names of Caractacus Potts, Jeremy, Jemima, and, of course, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang herself. Myself, growing up with the musical, I love it, but I can't deny the original book is charming, even if I did sorely miss Miss Truly Scrumptious and even if all the car talk did go over my head.
As fun as I remembered, Jeremy, Jemima, Mimsie, Commander Pott, the fabulous C C B B all having thrilling adventures, thwarting Joe the Monster and his gang of thieves...what could be better? Trixie enjoyed it as well. We haven’t yet made the Fooj.
In the first half of the book it seems like we are going to get magic and whimsy with the Scrumptious whistle sweets that Caractacus Potts invents and the cheeky flying car.
In the movie Dick Van Dyke is a wonderful lovable crackpot not the stern British Navy man we get in the book.
In the movie they have killed off the children's mother Mimsy and add a love interest, Truly Scrumptious.
They also give the children a grandfather who is a British Navy man who adds great comic relief.
How did I not know prior to reading this that it was written by Ian Fleming, author of all of the James Bond books.
And yes, before reading this, my only exposure to Chitty Chitty Bang Bang was through the old Disney movie, which I don't really remember much about either other than a little ditty bit of a song from the movie: Bang Bang, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, Our fine four fendered friend..Bang Bang, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, Our fine four fendered friend!All in all though this is a fun, cute adventure story about a family and their magical car.
I don't know if it matches the movie at all, as I don't remember the plot of the movie, other than the car could fly, and that is true to the book, so there you go.
