https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102241.Swords_Against_Wizardry
This fourth book in the Fafrd and Gray Mouser saga is even better than the first three. The two short slight pieces are amusing, and the two novelettes "Stardock" (about a mountain-climbing quest in search of invisible jewels) and "The Lords of Quarmall (concerning a dynastic struggle between two vicious brothers who seek to dominate a joyless underground world) are filled with excitement, and--as always--wine, women, swordplay and sorcery.
More of Leiber's finely-crafted tales of adventure featuring barbarian Fafhrd (whose bluff exterior hides one frequently given to flights of fancy or romance) and thief Mouser (who would describe himself, not altogether with cause, as the more practical of the pair).In this case, we have two quite long stories and one shorter linking piece.
(There were these parchment poems, see, that promised to the one brave enough to scale Stardock great rewards, both pecuniary and amorous ...)Then, in the bridging piece "The Two Best Thieves in Lankhmar", our heroes attempt to dispose of any pecuniary rewards they may have recovered with ...
My personal favorites are “Stardock” and “The Two Best Thieves in Lankhmar.” The first story is just a short framing piece, so I’ll focus on the main three stories.“Stardock” is a fast-paced and amazingly-written adventure in which Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser climb Stardock, an imposing ice-covered mountain that is the Newhon equivalent of Everest, in a quest to retrieve a pouch of gems that legend holds were made by the gods as test-models for the stars, which were then cast off after creation (hence the mountain’s name, Stardock, where the stars were first launched into the sky).
They guard a magnificent trove of treasure that lies at the heart of the dangerous peak, and the brave warriors known as Fafhrd and The Grey Mouser have decided that they will fight to make the riches their own!As their quest leads them from adventure to adventure, the two heroes find themselves at the threshold of the magical and mysterious kingdom of Quarmall.
As they attempt to breach the defenses of ancient and evil sorceries, Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser must learn that where treasure lies, treachery often follows.My thoughts on the book: Another great read from Fritz Leiber!
I finished this book and honestly I have to rate it lower than any previous Fafhrd and Mouser book that I've read.The banter between the two is still like friends,though there is some rivalry.But the first half of the book is so slow.There were times I had to read a designated number of pagesbefore I would take a break.But it paid off in the second half.We had wizards living in the same area and plotting against each other.
The bulk of the book is taken up by two longer pieces, and the last especially seems to be preparing the writer (and his audience) for the Nehwon novel that's to come, not so much thematically, but in the way that it focuses as much on other characters as it does on our two heroes, and, for the first time, without really diminishing them much, they've become rather subservient to the setting.In brief: the last story, "The Lords of Quarmall", is fantastic, and absolutely one of the best things in the canon of Fafhrd and Mouser.
The stories fit so well together that they almost feel like a novel.“In the Witch’s Tent” is a very short introductory story in which Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser visit a witch who prophesies about the events to come in the next story.In the novella “Stardock” (1965, Fantastic), our heroes and an ice-cat companion climb the forbidding mountain Stardock where they hope to find “a pouch of stars.” This story is slow in the beginning when the boys are climbing, but once they conquer Stardock, things get pretty exciting and, after leaving some incubating DNA behind, they leave the mountain with a bag of jewels that can only be seen at night.
Previous books seemed to contain one or two really good stories, with lesser material filling the rest."The Lords of Quarmall" has the distinction of being the best story of the series so far, edging out "Bazaar of the Bizarre" and "Lean Times in Lankhmar".
Those portions are the most interesting, and it's a shame that Fischer never produced anything else."The Best Thieves in Lankhmar" is intriguing for its implications that for all their talents, in terms of actual thievery Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser are at best skilled amateurs.
I think my favorite moment in the whole story was when the Mouser thought they were almost at the top only to find out that not only is there still more to go, there's a seemingly-insurmountable obstacle that they have to cross right at the "end."Of course, if it were just a story about climbing a mountain it would be boring, and so there's plenty else to spice up the story, from mysterious assailants to rival teams of treasure hunters.The last half of the book is taken up with "The Lords of Quarmall," which is the better of the two main stories even with how much I liked "Stardock." For one, there's the language:Once, the Lords of Quarmall ruled over broad meadows and vast seas; their ships swam between all known ports, and their caravans marched the routes from sea to sea.
I rated this one in the inclusive volume, Swords' Masters.
I'm pretty sure "Stardock" is my favorite Fafhrd & Gray Mouser story. --MK
"Stardock" is fairly impressive, and the other three stories are worth reading as well.
Probably my second favorite of all the Lankhmar collections, right after Swords Against Death. Not a bad one in the bunch -- I just prefer those in Swords Against Death by a little.
Vast improvement over volume 3. This and volume 2 are my favorites so far.
Short stories written between 1964 and 1968 for the magazines Fantastic and Fantastic Stories of Imaginations, it reads like a novel . In this tale Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser go off for some treasures in the snowy mountains of Fafrd's homeland. One of the original and greatest duos in literary history.
It does a good job of reaquainting the reader with the laidback and amoral duo of lovable scoundrels - the redheaded giant barbarian Fafhrd, and the sprightly, grey clad Mouser."Stardock" is one of my favorites stories so far from Leiber.
I picked here one example of why I love Leiber prose:"Through the Mazy avenues and alleys of the great city of Lankhmar, Night was a-slink, though not yet grown tall enough to whirl her black star-studded cloak across the sky, which still showed pale, towering wraiths of sunset." "The Lords of Quarmall" is a satifying long and moody piece, building a memorable underground setting, rich in magic and mystery.
Várias aventuras interessantes nesse livro, que se interligam transformando o volume em um romance.
“Stardock” conta as aventuras da dupla no norte gelado, atrás de um tesouro e um mistério milenar, “The Two Best Thieves in Lankhmar” é uma história curta e divertida que se passar em Lankhmar e que descreve os esforços da dupla para desovar os tesouros conquistados na aventura anterior.Minha história favorita nesse livro é a noveleta (uma história de mais de 40 mil palavras) “The Lords of Quarmall”.
Quarmall é uma cidade-fortaleza subterrânea, construída em níveis, com um clima pós-apocalíptico e onde os cidadãos e escravos são divididos pelos níveis em que eles vivem.
Quanto mais profundo o nível mais fudido é o cidadão.
In "Stardock," our two antiheroes embark on an expedition up an intimidating and dangerous mountain peak in search of rumored treasure.
This, too, was a bit tough to get through, possibly because it spends more time with the ridiculous siblings than Fafhrd and Mouser.
Both of the longer tales also felt a bit longer than they needed to be.
The opening vignette is fun, and I very much enjoyed "The Two Best Thieves in Lankhmar," in which the two attempt to unload the odd rewards they acquired from scaling Stardock, but I just didn't enjoy this overall as much as the previous collections I've read.
Fritz Leiber invented the term "sword and sorcery", and he was the finest author the genre has ever had.
In fact he was, in my opinion, the finest author of fantasy period.
I rank him above Tolkien, Howard and Moorcock, never mind Martin or Jordan.
I've read him described as a "master prose stylist", and the description is apt indeed.
Fritz Leiber was, simply, a terrific, extremely talented writer with a true love of language and a prodigious, playful, incredibly unique style.
He was the best, period, and anyone with any interest at all in fantasy who neglects Leiber is cheating himself.
The boys pick up a tent while they are inside it and run around a city trying to escape people wanting to kill them.
A silly good time."Stardock": The boys climb a snow covered mountain with a giant snow cat.
Some cool moments but overall it was too long and tedious."The Two Best Thieves in Lankhmar": Great Lankhmar story proving that the boys aren't as clever as they appear.
A very long story perfectly paced.
The boys are hired by competing princes in an underground castle.
The dynamics of the realms magic, and the castle engineering are fascinating.
Good comedy too.
Dans ce court recueil, on ne retrouve que deux grosses aventures de nos héros : une escalade à la recherche de graines d'étoiles jamais lancées dans le ciel, et une visite dans un pays catacombesque.Si le premier récit fait immanquablement penser à toutes ces histoires d'escalade (avec toutefois un supplément d'ennemis invisibles et volants), le second mélange habilement la politique machiavélique, une forte sensation de claustrophobie, et un dénouement dont seul Leiber pourrait nous gratifier.De la belle ouvrage, donc.
In the same note as the previous volumes. The story has all the package to really entertain.The story, the writing, the ideeas, the characters and plots are all very well made and thought.I`ve been reading some reviews and it looks like the next volumes are much weaker than these ones.But, still, I have hope that it wouldn`t be also true for me .
In the same note as the previous volumes. The story has all the package to really entertain.The story, the writing, the ideeas, the characters and plots are all very well made and thought.I`ve been reading some reviews and it looks like the next volumes are much weaker than these ones.But, still, I have hope that it wouldn`t be also true for me .
Nuevamente Leiber articula historias independientes para preparar una novela coherente. Los viajes de Fafhrd y el Ratonero Gris por el mundo de Nehwon están llenos de aventuras fantásticas e hilarantes con personajes inolvidables.Hice una reseña del libro en mi blog:http://lectorcompulsivo.com/2017/06/e...
"The time has come for sorcery and swords." Swords against Wizardry (1968) is the fourth book in Fritz Leiber's sword and sorcery series about the rogue-adventurer duo Fafhrd (tall, fair-skinned northern barbarian) and the Gray Mouser (short, swart scion of southern civilization).
Having spent too much time together before and after Stardock and quarreled over the best way to sell their invisible jewels, the friends part--until "Night was a-slink" and the "malfeasors" of Lankhmar are readying for business, and they run into each other by chance (?) outside the headquarters of their respective fences, Ogo the Blind and Nemia of the Dusk.
Some great moments in this book. I love how Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser misunderstand each other.
People enjoying movies such as The Void or Stallone’s Cliffhanger should read this story, though it certainly has a much broader appeal.“The Two Best Thieves in Lankhmar”—the title made me think Fafhrd and The Gray Mouser were going to rack up on some gold and glitter, but I was wrong.
I won’t spoil it here by revealing the plot, but things don’t turn out the way one might expect.“The Lords of Quarmall”—the title made me think Fafhrd and The Gray Mouser were going to storm in somewhere and become the lords of Quarmall, but I was wrong.
It took me a few stories to come around to Fafhrd and his erstwhile companion, but now I come back with relish to each successive book. This one featured a story I'd seen in Mike Mignola's graphic novel collection of tales, but the story was truly enhanced by having the stories that come both before and after, as they end up telling a more-or-less complete little arc.
The fourth volume of collected tales of Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser is every bit as enjoyable and worthy a read as the three that precede it.
Fine stories, but due to their length, they lack some of the wit and pacing of stories like "The Price of Pain-Ease" and "Bazaar of the Bizarre" (from "Swords Against Death").That being said, there are some tasty passages from both of those longer works in the volume under review here.
Do you enjoy quality writing that tells an imaginative story with likable characters that will leave you feeling like you had fun reading a book?
Two stories masquerading as a novel.
Both stories are brilliant in concept.
The first concept is that the gods made all the stars that line the heavens, and the world's highest mountain, Stardock, is where legend says they were launched - cue Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser climbing to the peak to obtain starry riches beyond their wildest dreams.
And while I'm at it, are the characters in my pseudo-mediaeval world going to call each other 'you' or 'thee and thou'?
At time, Leiber settles down into a smooth narrative, but more often than not sticks in so many extra words and paragraphs that you can skim over the story with little effort because the stories contain so little.I'm not saying that there's nothing there, but at times, he sure does approximate that.
Much like weak broth, the stories feel watered down with lumps of meat floating about, but as nice as that meat is, it's just not worth the broth.If you are sensitive to sexism, these stories sure do have lots of it.
