https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18467802-euphoria
However, Fen admits to a genuine regard for his wife's work.The couple had recently studied the Mumbanyo, a frighteningly barbaric tribe, and left abruptly, at Nell's request, resigning to move to Australia to study the Aboriginal peoples.
He met Nell and Fen quite spontaneously, and talked them out of Australia and back into New Guinea, promising to find them a stimulating tribe to study.
Once comprehension comes, so much else falls away...words aren't always the most reliable thing."Andrew is an excellent theorist, who ponders the science itself."I find I am more interested in this question of subjectivity, and the limited lens of the anthropologist...Perhaps all science is merely self-investigation."The study of cultural differences by these individuals is not a tendentious prop to raise our consciousness.
Don’t worry, the book isn’t full of dead babies, but it’s full of life and gorgeous writing and intriguing characters and I can’t end this sentence because I can’t stop raving about this book.
She and her husband, Fen, are tribe-jumping, quickly packing up and taking off in canoes when things get too dicey.
You don’t get to know many people in the tribe, but you get to see Nell happily hang out with them.
The setting reminded me a lot of State of Wonder, one of my favorite books, so I’m sure I was predisposed to liking it.The novel was well edited except for two small things.
I picture a writer chipping away at her words, like a sculptor to marble, until the true work reveals itself; the words coming to life in the reader’s imagination the way hard, cold stone warms like flesh under the hand.
It is the early 1930s, and American anthropologist Nell Stone and her Australian husband Fen are fleeing the aggressive Mumbanyo tribe in a canoe when something is tossed at them.
Enter Andrew Bankson, an Englishman who has been in New Guinea for years, studying the Kiona tribe.
So too are the encounters between the Stones and Bankson and the tribes under their study: Tam and Kiona, respectively.
Or something more than a love triangle in an exotic location at the advent of a world war which does make you think King wasn't unaware of the colossal commercial success of The English Patient and Out of Africa - except her writing unfortunately isn't in the same class as Ondaatje or Blixen.
In the first five chapters there could be the suspicion that anthropology is just going to be used as an exotic backdrop for little more than another done-to-death love triangle.
Pretty obvious, I loved this book!
The story revolves around three main characters, Nell, her husband Fen, and fellow anthropologist Bankson.
How Nell did not want to be possessed in love, and yet married a man who does just that.
Okay, and just a shout out to yesterday's news of legalized gay marriage, the story has a subtile reference to how she was in love with a woman before she married, one who she continued to write to often throughout the book.Wonderful read, highly recommended!
Euphoria is my new favourite read of 2015.
The title itself captivated me until the story grabbed and pulled at me and I, too, felt intense pleasure and well being.
It’s New Guinea circa 1932.
This friendship creates an opportunity to shed the loneliness and isolation that comes from spending months away from western civilization, however the costs are tragic.
King creates a complex story of emotional intimacy between the characters as well as a fascinating depiction of self discovery and self destruction.

The book is loosely based on the lives of anthropologists, Margaret Mead and her first and second husbands, and left me wanting to know more about each of them.
I say loosely based because the author added her own twist to the story that tugged at my heartstrings.
But regardless of who they were, I loved these fascinating characters that were created in this book.
It was the relationship that developed between the three anthropologists and the qualities they contributed to their work that propelled the story.
This is an absolute favorite and a story I won’t forget.
'You are in my stomach,' was their most intimate expression of love.'"I love books about anthropology, and in this historical fiction read, King takes the reader deep into the river villages of New Guinea in the 1930s.
Andrew Bankston, an English anthropologist, has been studying a friendly river tribe for several years by himself.
Convinced they are his salvation, he persuades them to stay on in New Guinea, and finds them another tribe to study close by, the Tam people, so that they can stay in contact.What follows is a confusing triangle of friendship, intimacy and violence.
I love the interplay between the personal and scientific outlooks on human nature in this fictional rendering of the life of Margaret Mead and her husband during their fieldwork living with a New Guinea tribe in the 30s.
But he’s got verve and humor, and often puts her ideas to useful criticism, such as pointing out how the gender roles observed might be a temporary during recovery from being victims of warfare with a neighboring tribe.
While Nell works on the tribe’s economics, food, social structure, and child rearing, he’s supposed to be studying their religion, rituals, warfare, and geneology.

I told her the longer I stayed, the more asinine the attempt seemed, and that what I’d become more interested in is how we believed we could be objective in any way at all, we who each came in with our own personal definitions of kindness, strength, masculinity, femininity, God, civilisation, right and wrong.Yum. And many more like it:It’s that moment about two months in, when you think you’ve finally got a handle on the place.
But at the moment the place feels entirely yours.
I loved this quiet, fascinating book about a love triangle between 3 anthropologists in New Guinea in the 1930’s. Lily King poignantly captures a moment in history where tribes and their cultures are still undiscovered, letters and journals are still handwritten and time flows thick as molasses. A deep breath inhaled and held, just before the world changes forever.Lovely writing and a perfect, haunting ending.
EuphoriaPlease be aware that my review contain what could be considered spoilers!!!!I read somewhere that Euphoria is a novel of ideas. At its center, the novel follows three young anthropologists and the very strange romantic triangle that takes place between them in the early 1930’s during a short period of time when their lives and careers intersected along the Sepik River in New Guinea. Lily King based the main three characters, Nell Stone, Fenwick Schuyler & Andrew Bankson, on the live
They seem to complement and respect each other, something that Fen is unable to provide for Nell, since he feels constantly threatened by his wife’s success.There are times when if sounds as if Nell believes that a relationship with Bankson could help balance her broken marriage, although I am not sure that is clear how exactly this was supposed to work.
Achieving success as a scientist provided a path to glory, fame and immortality in a way that I believe no longer describes how society looks at scientists today (with a few exceptions of course).I should say, that I enjoyed both of the audiobook narrators immensely, their performances certainly helped enhance the story for me.
The historic significance of cultural anthropology in New Guinea during the 1930's was very interesting as was the protagonist's character being based on Margaret Mead.
This is what the two main characters hoped to attain with their study of the Tam. However, what they achieved was closer to a treatise.Nel Stone and her husband, Fen, have been married for about three years when they meet another anthropologist in New Guinea - Bankson.
Bankson is recuperating from a failed suicide attempt and does his best to help out Nell and Fen, who are determined to leave New Guinea unless they can come up with the right type of tribe to study.
The Line – “But she was aware the story you think you know is never the real one.”The Sinker – I don’t know much about Margaret Mead’s life except that she was a cultural anthropologist.
Loosely based on Mead’s life, Euphoria may find me scrambling to learn more.
Anthropology is key here but if that’s not your cup of tea, don’t be swayed from reading this lush novel.
It is infrequent that I say less is more, but that’s how I feel about Euphoria.
There are many fine other reviews for you to read.
I listened to Euphoria but would suggest you read it if you can.
"The Mumbanyo kill their twins, she told me close to morning, because two babies meant two different lovers."The remote villages of 1930's New Guinea really come to life in this descriptive story of three anthropologists who interview and document their interactions with native tribes as they live in their environment.As relationships develop and dubious personalities show their true form, it becomes apparent there is evil in the air and danger on the way.....with one character in particular you will love to hate!Super interesting read! Great bookclub pick!
  (googled photos of Rainbow Gum Trees....Wow!)
4.5★I loved this exotic tale of three anthropologists in New Guinea during the 1930s. While they are observing, studying, and disrupting the lives of the tribes they are living amongst, the reader feels like a fourth character watching the dangerous fascinations, jealousy, and erotic tension that escalate between the two men and one woman. At only 256 pages that stealthily turn like a cat through the jungle, there is no superfluousness here. The wonderful pacing and prose keeps you reading in your own quest for fulfillment and release.
It has been a while since I had the urge to literally bring a book to my chest and hold it there for a few moments after finishing it, but with this book I not only had the urge, I embraced it.
(And therefore the book, because I am both literal and ridiculous.) This is one of those rare books I feel compelled to order for my closest friends (Maria, consider yourself warned!) rather than just recommend, because it's just that good.
Both characters immediately resonated with me, and I honestly had a feeling from the very first chapters that this book would end up on my list of favorites.
It’s a passively told story in which the three anthropologists, Nell (loosely based on Margaret Mead), her husband Fen, and their friend Bankson report to the reader.
The love triangle lurking in the background is problematic not just because it lacks intensity but because it involves three characters King failed to make authentically human.
Probably because this story was inspired by the life of Margaret Mead, King devoted most of her attention to Nell.
Bankson is a deeply lonely and sometimes hopeless man, and King also did a good job making the reader really feel what he feels:Nell and Fen had chased away my thoughts of suicide.
Euphoria will definitely be added to my favorites shelf.
'This work.' Favorite part?
'It's that moment about two months in, when you think you've finally got a handle on the place.
But at that moment the place feels entirely  yours.
(loc 635)In this exciting book about people and many types of relationships, we are witness to the journey of three anthropologists in New Guinea in the 1930s, a young married couple, Nell and Fen, who are seeking a new tribe to monitor and Bankston, who has been on his own for years, too alone.
There are the anthropologists of course, and the various tribes involved.
I became immediately interested in learning about the tribes living along the Sepik River right along with the fictionalized characters Nell Stone and her husband Fen, and the depressed and isolated Andrew Bankson.
I admired Nell and could feel such empathy for her at times as she struggled not just to understand the people of New Guinea, but humanity itself.
“I think above all else it is freedom I search for in my work, in these far-flung places, to find a group of people who give each other the room to be in whatever way they need to be.
I did know that this novel would be based loosely on life encounters of the anthropologist Margaret Mead.What actually made my eyelashes flutter was the character of Andrew Bankson.
Does Bankson serve as a genuine relationship for Nell or as simply a diversion from her controlling, over-bearing husband?The setting in New Guinea highlights the work of anthropologists of the time period.
The physical and emotional toll comes to the forefront.But it is the very personal encounters of Andrew, Nell, and Fen that weave their way throughout this book.
That is why Lily King is a master at presenting the inner workings of her characters.
“The story you think you know is never the real one.” What a great novel about the love triangle between three anthropologists (one American, one English, and one Australian) working among the tribes of Papua New Guinea in the 1930s. Apparently it’s based on the lives of Margaret Mead and two of her husbands, but knowledge of the real-life antecedents is unnecessary; this book is its own intense, self-contained world. Two other novels I’ve read in the past few years,  The People in the Trees  by
“The story you think you know is never the real one.” What a great novel about the love triangle between three anthropologists (one American, one English, and one Australian) working among the tribes of Papua New Guinea in the 1930s.
Apparently it’s based on the lives of Margaret Mead and two of her husbands, but knowledge of the real-life antecedents is unnecessary; this book is its own intense, self-contained world.
What she loves most is “that moment about two months in, when you think you’ve finally got a handle on the place.
Nell Stone and her husband Fen, have just left the tribe, a very violent one, that they have been studying.
There is jealousy, Nell has published and her book has created quite a stir in academic circles, a fact Fen resents.
In immersive prose, King has written a wonderful story loosely based on the lives of Margaret Mead and her second and third husbands, all successful in their own right.I have not read many books, if any, on anthropology, so knew little about these people I was reading about.
It helps that the book is amazingly well-researched and seems so assured on the topic - in fact, I don't think I've ever read something that so seamlessly blends such a sizable amount of information on a specific topic with emotion without being dull as dirt (though I do tend to shy away from overtly intellectual fiction, so I may not be the best judge of that!) It's full of heart and enthusiasm and both Nell and Bankson are highly likeable narrators and characters.
If I tell you that Euphoria is a novel loosely based on the life of the anthropologist Margaret Mead, your eyes will start to glaze over.
Mead, a controversial character in real life, is here transmuted into the equally complex (and somewhat sickly) Nell Stone, who has made a reputation for herself by studying native tribes in New Guinea.
Enter a charming-but-tortured third anthropologist, who at times seems to be unsure to which of his new friends he’s more attracted.
This is the best kind of historical novel--the kind that sent me running to read more about its real-life inspiration
Her husband in the book, macho, defensive, flamboyant Australian Schuyler Fenwick ("Fen") corresponds to Mead's second husband, New Zealand anthropologist Reo Fortune.Andrew Bankson, the reserved and sensitive British anthropologist, is the novel's version of Mead's third husband, Gregory Bateson.Helen Benjamin, an off-stage character who never actually appears in person, is the fictional version of famous anthropologist Ruth Benedict.The book starts off with Nell and Fen returning, sick and exhausted, from an unsuccessful expedition into the bush.
In return, Bankson hopes to find some research partners and break out of his debilitating isolation.The empathetic Nell falls in love with the gentle people of this tribe, the fictitious Tam.The combination of Stone, Fen, and Bankson does prove to be intellectually fertile.
At the same time, it fits perfectly into my month of reading books from and about New Guinea, so the bookish universe must have known I needed to wait.I've read several novels about anthropologists - some I loved, like Mating by Norman Rush, and some I liked slightly less but still enjoyed, like State of Wonder by Ann Patchett.In Euphoria, Lily King takes the person of Margaret Mead and her first research in New Guinea and that becomes the basis of her novel (she doesn't say this within the novel but it is pretty obvious, and others have pointed it out as well.) I have a copy of Growing Up in New Guinea: A Comparative Study of Primitive Education coming my way, so I will have the experience of dipping into her actual writings.
You probably should read it anyway and behold its euphoria-evoking power.
The three characters at the heart of this (thanks to Ms. King's seeming inability to bring any of her characters to life) stumble about and pretend to be scholars of indigenous tribes of New Guinea but it's obvious from the get-go that everything presented here from an anthropological standpoint (the scarification rituals, the penis gourd dances, the arcane lore, the totally non-explained magic flute, the baby-killings, the warring factions) are just gauzy subtext to the dalliances/jealousies of Nell, Bankston, and Fen, none of whom are fleshed-out enough to worry about anyway.
(All it did for me however is light a fire under my rear to read Hanya Yanagihara's acclaimed anthropology exercise  The People in the Trees, and erase this one from my mind.)
