https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1463.Euripides_V
As a Latin Teacher and Latin and Greek Major as an Undergrad, I love re-reading the Classics whenever I can. I love the great lines and classic turns of phrase, and find new ones every time.
I thought Electra was a self-pitying, hypocritical whiner, and apparently that's just what Euripides wanted me to think.
Electra & Orestes' shock at everything still being bad, even after killing their mother, was well done --- it brought the point home dramatically: No one's in the right, no one's all bad or good, and violence rarely solves things, even in god-sanctioned "justice." A powerful piece."The Phoenecian Women": It was very good, holding my interest despite my familiarity with the plot.
Oedipus played a minor role, but his lines were pure poetry, with quite a bit of clever use of "light" and "dark" metaphor (he being blind and all)."The Bacchae": Before I read the insightful intro by W.
It downplays the scope of the tragedy which makes it stand in stark contrast to Aeschylus, but it also neuters it in a way that hurts the play a little.
Again, characteristic of Euripides, it emphasizes its gray morality which also works against it a little bit in that it alienates the audience.
It's an interesting play but not his best.The Phoenician Women is a bit of a mess.
It's in the very language of the play.
So it's a greater tragedy than any greek play has to offer that the end of The Bacchae is a giant lacuna.
Moral is: Do not cross Dionysis.More Euripides not in this volume (WARNING: SPOILERS TO STORIES THAT ARE 2500 YEAR OLD BELOW...)Hippolytus: He's an odd boy.
Mums is an Amazon; pops is Theseus.
Step-mums Phaedra.
Tragedy ensues.Heracles: Heracles goes NUTS & kills the kids.Hecuba: Sweet revenge!
This is a good one!
End of the Trojan War.The Trojan Women: Same story as Hecuba, but not as good for me.
Less satisfying.Iphegenia in Tauris: A happy-ever-after tragedy.
Dues ex machina turns everything 180 around.
Odd that.
This isn't tragedy!
It's Happy-Ever-After.
No wonder she turns "evil".
Reading the Bacchae. Recently read an article in the New York Review of Books positing that, unlike most comedies that have their genesis as a response to a tragedy, this tragedy actually has its genesis in response to a comedy, The Thesmophoriasuzae by Aristophanes. Interesting.....++++++++++++++++++++++++What I wouldn't give to see a production of this play, a GOOD production of this play. It could be the most harrowing theatrical experience.
The Bacchae was very good. It is so far my favorite Euripidean play. Not so Phoenician Women or Electra, though the foreword to Electra was wonderful. Hmm. Four for Bacchae, three for Electra and Phoenician. (Phoenician was almost two, but for Menoeceus.)
Wonderful drama, as true and relevant today as when it was written.
The background to his return is presented in the prologue, in which Dionysus tells the story of his mother, Semele, once a princess in the royal Theban house of Cadmus.
Zeus, too powerful for a mortal to behold, emerged from the sky as a bolt of lightning and burnt Semele to a cinder.
Semele's family claimed that she had been struck by lightning for lying about Zeus and that her child, the product of an illicit human affair, had died with her, maligning her name and rejecting the young god Dionysus.
The Bacchae By:Euripides The action of the play begins with Dionysus's return to Thebes years later.
He arrives in town disguised as the stranger, accompanied by a band of bacchants, to punish the family for their treatment of his mother and their refusal to offer him sacrifices.
During Dionysus's absence, Semele's father, Cadmus, had handed the kingdom over to his proud grandson Pentheus.
It was Pentheus's decision to not allow the worship of Dionysus in Thebes.
Dionysus tells the audience that when he arrived in Thebes he drove Semele's sisters mad, and they fled to Mt. Cithaeron to worship him and perform his rites on the mountainside.
The action of the play begins with Dionysus's return to Thebes years later. He arrives in town disguised as the stranger, accompanied by a band of bacchants, to punish the family for their treatment of his mother and their refusal to offer him sacrifices.
See Aristotle’s Poetics for why this book sucks.
But inherent is the argument that the Greeks were starting to live and experience that a noble upbringing meant nothing.Also interesting are Clytemnestra's lines, similar to those of Medea about the double standard that women face "...when our husbands choose to despise the bed they, a woman is quite willing to imitate her man and find another friend.
But then the dirty gossip puts us in the spotlight; the guilty ones, the men, are never blamed at all."The Phoenician Women is mostly a story about oedipus's sons Eteocles who tricks his brother into leaving Thebes for a year but then when Polyneices comes back won't relinquish the power or split it with him.
The other son, Polyneices, is also in the wrong because he brought a foreign army to forcibly take Thebes.
Antigone is betrothed to Haemon, but still has her long journey with Oedipus before she defies the state in burying her brother Polyneices.
Note, for one thing, that Antigone is apparently planning both to go into exile, at once, with Oedipus and, in defiance of Creon, to bury Polyneices.
For example, the words “unmothered Pallas’”(see below) refers to Athena, sometimes called Pallas, who sprang from the forehead of Zeus.
Seeing public disorder at hand, Pentheus, the sober grandchild of Cadamus the founder of Thebes, tries to quell the orgies and revelries that threaten the city, and arrests the god, who drunkenly destroys the entire palace with lightening and thunder (precisely why the god of wine can summon thunder and lightening is only for the gods to know), then makes Pentheus mad and dresses him in a woman's clothes and goes a-romping with Pentheus to the mountain to "check out" the field before letting him unleash squadrons of army against the drunken women who are reportedly having, well, a bacchanalian orgy.
Having taken Pentheus to the field, the god vanishes and orders the women to rip him apart with their bare hands, and this tragic sparagmos is done by the victim's mother and sisters.
For example, is there anything more horrific and bizarre than the sight of a mother singing and dancing while holding in her hand as a trophy the severed head of her own son?The Descent into MadnessOn the surface, the plot of the play seems to be the power struggle between the young god Dionysus and King Pentheus of Thebes.
Euripides, who died just before the end of the Peloponnesian War and the fall and near total destruction of Athens, was perhaps suggesting indirectly that the whole of Athens had gone insane, although the Athenians believed themselves to be victorious, as Pentheus and his mother did in their madness.
For one thing, whenever you carry it around, people give you funny looks.
But then there are plays like the Bacchae, and it was really really exciting.
There are all these crazy people running around, and there's singing and dancing and strange costumes (like hippies), and then all of a sudden, there's something like a zombie apocalypse attack and there's blood everywhere and mass hysteria and yes this is ancient literature, not a 21st century slasher film.(I don't remember, did all of that count as spoilers?
Whereas with Euripides, one is transported directly into the action that is happening in the present moment of the play, by means of the narrative, as well as the dialogue.
Also noteworthy is Euripides' technique of having the characters exchange one-liners in dialogue.
It's a dark, crazy, absurd and even funny play; the highlight being the "Celebrity Death Match" between Pentheus and Dionysus.
As grim as scenario of "The Bacchae" is, it often reads like a comedy (the scene with Pentheus "in drag" after having been hypnotized by Dionysus is hysterical).
I'm looking forward to reading "Hippolytus" in Euripides I of this series.
The Bacchae is my newest favorite play of all time.
Dionysus isn't only the god of wine, but of surrendering control.
The duality of gender roles is explored here explicitly: androgyny isn't just hinted at with Dionysus's beautiful skin and long golden curls, but is flaunted before us in full-on drag.
His Bowie-inspired glam-rock-god in a gold lame kilt hints at the slippery, orgiastic appeal of the abandon that occurs when boundaries are temporarily ignored and we slip into that pre-language, mob-minded state where the lizard brain rules, if only for a short time.
The three plays presented in "Euripides V" are all important works: Electra, The Phoenician Women, and The Bacchae.
Before each play, they provide useful context and critical evaluations of the work.
The works stand or fall on the basis of the original quality of the plays and the competence of the translation.
The editors do a nice job of providing critical analysis (note some of the comparisons between Sophocles and Euripides).
In the end, this is a useful version of the three plays and a nice entree to the work of one of the great Greek tragedians.
The work closes with a nice chronology of the plays of Euripides.

"The man whose glibness flows from his conceit of speech declares the thing he is: a worthless and a stupid citizen""Briefly, we live.
Briefly, then die.
Such men are mad, their counsels evil.""Talk sense to a fool, and he calls you foolish.""Wise men know constraint: our passions are controlled.""You are clever-very- but not where it counts.""And if there is god of wine, there is no love, no Aphrodite either, nor other pleasure left to men.""What is wisdom?
What gift of the gods is held in honor like this: to hold you hand victorious over the heads of those you hate?
Honor is precious forever."The Bacchae.
And so I finish my goal of reading the complete tragedies of Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides. While certainly uneven (because of incomplete survival of the complete works), they are certainly intriguing works and raise fascinating questions of staging. I would say as a whole that I prefer Euripides who certainly feels most easily adapted to the modern stage, but what a treat to have these earliest examples of the Western theatre.
(This is a review of the Bacchae only)Oh, Bacchae, how I love your gory disgusting ending. :) It is extraordinarily unfair for everyone except possibly Pentheus, but what a gloriously unfair ending it is! Everyone should read Ancient Greek plays. Don't be hatin'! Just make sure you don't get a lame-ass translation. :)
I really liked Euripides. It was interesting to read his Electra especially, which is a pretty different version than Sophocles' Electra. Euripides is much darker and more brutal in some ways than Sophocles--both rely on humankind's fatedness as the source of tragedy, but Euripides' plays show much more existential angst.
I liked the treatment of the Electra myth that Euripides gives, it's an interesting look into self-involved characters. Orestes and Electra are more spoiled brats, rather than slighted children out to avenge their father. Otherwise, the translation of the Bacchae is a strong one, but not my favorite (I prefer Woodruff's). Two of Euripides' better plays both in one volume.
"The Bacchae" is one of my all-time favorite plays. I've read several adaptations of it, as well, and it just always seems to hold up to time. I found the other plays in this volume quite enjoyable, also. "The Phoenician Women" offers a take on the Antigone story that I hadn't encountered before. Euripides is probably my favorite of the Greek playwrights.
What can I say? All of the well-known Greek playwrights are important reading, both for their historical significance as well as the fact that they're excellent plays. They haven't remained famous for 2,400 years because they're not worthy of it.
I had previously read and loved Electra and The Bacchae and finally decided to get to The Phoenician Women. It wasn't as good, but it did make me want to revive the ancient tradition of women gathering in a mob to voice their opinions. March on Washington, anyone?
All these books are the seed for the literature and all the entertaining business we see nowadays. There is nothing new under the sun. Euripides is different from Sophocles and Aeschylus. He has a lot of gods to appear as characters in his plays. To Euripides, gods are vengeful, petty and cruel.
The Bacchae is excellent. The god gets his own back righteously. Elektra - saw this at Stratford this summer. An annoying lead.
