https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102313.N_or_M_
পড়ার পরায় পুরো সময়টা বেশ উপভোগযতার সাথে মনোযোগ ধরে রাখতে পারলেও বলতেই হচছে শেষাবধি মন ভরাতে পারল না । আগাথা করিসটির টিপিকযাল সুলেখনিতে বইয়ের শুরু থেকেই গতিময়তা ছিল, জমজমাট রহসযের ঘনঘটা ছিল, পাশাপাশি আমার পড়া তাঁর পরায় সব বইয়ের মতো কেনদরীয় রহসযটা খুনের না হয়ে গুপতচর-শিকার আর সপাই বনাম সপাইয়ের বুদধির খেলা হওয়ায় ঘটনার পরযায়করমে অভিনবতবও পেয়েছি... কিনতু আর সবকষেতরে যেমন গলপের কলাইমেকসে গিয়ে করিসটি তাঁর নিখুঁত বোনা সূকষণ রহসযের জাল সুনিপূণ হাতে ধাপে ধাপে পাঠকের সামনে উনমোচন করেন একের পর এক দুরদানত বি

As light reading between more demanding literary works, Agatha Christie never fails.
Although Tommy and Tuppence were always my least favourite sleuths of Agatha Christie’s, the detective formula largely follows the same formulas as in the Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple stories.This one has a bit of Fawlty Towers about it.
I first read this book back then but remember not a single thing.
So, less demanding may also mean less rewarding, but there’s something to be said for a bit of brain candy before (and after) more taxing reading experiences.
To be honest, this book didn't feel so good at the very beginning. But, as the things went ahead, I kept on guessing. Even with obvious fact my belief dangled, and I couldn't be sure of the decisions I made about the antagonist. And by the end I truly loved this story. Its everything you want from a Christie story. There is misdirection, suspense and proper explanation of the facts.Normally I try to be critical about mystery novels, but I have absolutely no complain about this one. So, a full rating is well deserving achievement.
সেই রাজা সলোমানের সময় থেকে আজ পরযনত মায়ের ভালোবাসার কোন পরিবরতন হয়নি। সেদিন রাজা সলোমান যখন দুই মহিলার মধযে দাবীকৃত সনতানকে তরোবারির আঘাতে কেটে ভাগ করে দিতে চেয়েছিলো, হার মেনেছিলো আসল মা। কেঁদে বলেছিলো আমার সনতান চাই না। তাঁকে দিয়ে দিন। সেই তাঁর পরকৃত মা।আজ কয়েক হাজার বছর পরে মায়ের সেই ভালোবাসা আছে অবিকৃত আর থাকবেও চিরনতন। একজন মা কোন অবসথাতে তাঁর সনতানের জীবনের ঝুঁকি নিতে পারেন না। আর এই চিরনতন সতযকে অনুধাবন করে সমাধান হয় লেখক সমরাজঞী অগাথা করিসটির এন অর এম তথা গুপতচর বইটির রহসয।রূপানতরকৃত বইয়ে

***2018 Summer of Spies*** A fast, fun expedition into espionage! I liked the fact that Christie allowed her main characters to age and change a bit. As is true for most of us, they retained their basic characteristics which turned them into spy hunters to begin with, but they are dealing with details that afflict us all as we age. Younger folk (including the Beresford children) no longer see our relevance and no one wants the skills that we have on offer—just ask anyone who is over 40 and unem
Tommy at least gets to go out and play golf.I’m currently reading a biography of Ian Fleming and I’m at the point of reading about his experiences in WWI in the Royal Navy’s Intelligence Unit—although this T&T caper seems a bit outlandish, it’s not that far off of some of the imaginative schemes that NID came up with to try to thwart the Nazis, which surprised me a lot.
All of the global intelligence services have come a long way since the 1940s.A bit of summer fun.
Charming and engrossing novel, with many twists and turns.
Review to come.
This fantastic mystery kept me guessing till the very end.
I never did figure out one of the suspects before the big reveal.
The narrator, James Warwick, did a marvelous job, doing various voices and accents -- including a toddler's murmurings and another character's stammering -- which, I suppose, shouldn't come as a surprise since he's a television and movie actor (often working on Agatha Christie stories, by the way).
I hope to read -- or listen to -- another of their adventures soon.The only drawbacks about this book, for me, are the profanity and expletives used.Content: murder, alcoholI was not compensated for my honest review.
كانت هذه أول رواية بوليسية أقرأها، وقد أعطاني إياها صديق عزيز علي جداً، توقعت أن تعجبني ولكنها كانت أكثر من ذلك.إنها رواية تعتمد على التجسس وهذا الصنف الذي أحبه، كما أن شخصيات الرواية الرئيسية " تومي و توبينس " شخصيات أكثر من رائعة، كل شيء كان واضحً في هذه الرواية: الأحداث والشخصيات والنهاية لذلك أراها تستحق أعلى تقييم.وأنصح أي شخص يحب الروايات البوليسية بها ولا أظنه سيندم إطلاقاً.أما الذين لا يحبون الروايات البوليسية فلا أعدهم بالكثير، ولكني واثق برأي محبي الروايات البوليسية فأنا وهم من الصنف نفسه.
لم تعجبني كثيرا وأخذت مني وقتا طويلا بين دفتيها، انتباني كثيرا من الملل آنذاك
رواية ممتعة والبطلان تومي وتوبنس مرحان ولهما حس دعابة جميلالرواية عبارة عن بطلان يفتتحان مكتبا للتحري بهدف القبض على بعض الجواسيسوخلال ذلك يحلان القضايا التي تتقدم اليهما وفي كل قضية يتقمصا شخصيات ابطال روايات بوليسية شهيرةواضحكتني جدا شخصية البرت
Despite the meandering speculations, somewhat predictable suspect... T&T ''s signature style remains the biggest pull
أحدَاث القصّة رائعة و مُشوقة لكنّ الترجمة سيئَة !
Another excellent Christie read.
It's great that Christie has allowed us to see the progression of her and Tommy over time; the duo having grown from ambitious youngsters to middle-aged retirees with their own grown-up children.
This in turn allowed for a great thread throughout this book about society being dismissive of people and their worth as they age.The plot itself was as intricate and deftly handled as I've come to expect, with elements of political intrigue, war-time racial tension, action and excitement, and even some surprising pathos; topped off, of course, with a heavy dose of mystery.
لا بأس بها .. تكون أقوى في مضمارها جريمة وتحليل الجريمة .. والرائع بوارو
If I am remembering correctly, Tommy and Tuppence are the only major characters in Christie's works who age through their series ...This story begins with a similar scene to the previous book, "Partners in Crime".It's about 20 years later and the war is in full swing.
As they are hoping for a change of fortune, they are contacted but only Tommy is chosen for the job.An agent has been killed and Tommy is to go undercover to follow up on the last clue.
Really enjoyed this book by the prolific and entertaining Agatha Christie.
The main characters are spies Tommy and Tuppence (husband and wife) sent to the coast to find and capture the male (N) and (M) female spies that were the leaders of the Fifth Column-German infiltrators-some sent years before the war, carefully placed to do the most damage when German invasion began.
Many characters in this book-all interesting to me.
Christie put many twists and turns into the story but somehow also keeps the pace steady and relaxed.
It was nice to read a mystery set in a more innocent time and with practically no technology.
The next installment in my quest to re-visit Dame Agatha's works: N or M? follows the adventures of Tommy and Tuppence during the war. Full review posted at BookLikes:http://brokentune.booklikes.com/post/...-
I sat down and read N or M ?,After a while I got boredWhat actually happened? My motivation to keep reading gradually disappear,Is this because I'm partial to hercule poirot and miss marple??Nothing to say more really
Oh, Tommy and Tuppence I do love you two! And reading about your WWII adventures was just as fun and exciting as reading about your adventures during the 1920s.
Such fun! Spies, espionage, and patriotism! I loved Tommy and Tuppence and their relationship. I can't wait to read more about them!
As much as I love Tommy and Tuppence, the plot or mystery in this one was rather too easy to unravel. I figured out who the German Spy ensconced at the hotel was early on and was a bit disapointed it took Tommy and Tuppence so long to catch on. But it was still fun to go on another jaunt with T & T. Where this book really shines for me is that it was published in 1940 and really gives the modern reader a little peak into the prejudices, thoughts and predictions about the war in its early days.
I really enjoyed this book which gives us Tommy and Tuppence in their 40's during WWII. Of course they want to help their country but it seems people of their age aren't needed. How they get involved with 5th columnist (spies working inside England) makes a quick, fun tale. It's unlikely the reader will figure out all of the twists and turns in this story, bu even when I remembered who did what and why I still thought the story held up well. Their kids are unnecessarily dismissive of our pair, but that's a small part of a fun story.
All of Tommy and Tuppence mysteries are above all the rest; this one was, perhaps, a little more tragic, but with a pleasing ending-and the only thing that I really didn't like, was how their children were so uninterested in their parent's Great War stories, and thought they were past doing anything!
Manchester, immigrants, and spies.
Agatha Christie tells the story through a series of events in chronological order throughout the mystery.
This style was effective because telling a mystery out of order makes the reader very confused.
The first thing that occurs in the story is when Mr. Grant goes to see Tommy Beresford about an undercover job during WWII.
Tommy accepts the job but cannot tell his wife anything about this assignment.
There he finds his wife Tuppence already in disguise and undercover!
Tuppence acted like a pushy widow who was after Tommy.
Tommy acted like he wasn’t interested in her.
Tommy 46 and wife Tuppence follow dead agent's last words to Sans Souci seaside guest house for male N, female M, Hitler's most trusted to lead Fifth Column. Could they be part-Spanish landlady Mrs Perenna, sulky daughter Sheila, refugee von Deinem, mustached Mrs O'Rourke, bluff Major Bletchley, elderly Miss Minton, invalid Cayley or attentive wife Elisabeth? Surely not Mrs Sprot with lisping toddler Betty?A typically wonderful book by Christie. Light hearted and lyrical. Tommy and Tuppence are wonderful characters. Plenty of twists and turns throughout the book and the ending was a surprise.
I enjoyed this one, but not as much as I otherwise would have had I not guessed several plot twists...
and then realized this was all vaguely familiar because I had, in fact, read this book before.
I don't remember doing so, but halfway through the book I suddenly sat back with a deja vu feeling, and by the end I was definitely sure that I must have picked this one up at some point in my novel-filled past.It's still a jolly good time when all is said and done, though.
Honestly, who wouldn't want a marriage like Tommy and Tuppence's?
c'est mon premier roman de couple Tommy et Tuppence,c'est un roman d'espionnage.
This is a-m-a-z-i-n-g. I love how husband and wife work together to find a spy for the Germans during WW2. I will guarantee you probably won't guess who's the bad guy! One star off for some swearing.
