https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/490597.Best_Short_Stories_of_Ring_Lardner
Not as great as Cheever, but the stories are entertaining.
He was an sports writer before getting seriously into stories, so there are a few too many sports-related ones I could care less about. I mean, all are very excellent character studies, deviant and dark, it's just that I can only take so many anachronistic baseball speak circa 1950s, 60s. Excellent writing for a dead guy.
While well written and somewhat interesting, I just don't like stories about people with obnoxious personal traits. And once the author has set up the situation with someone who's mean, rude, overbearing, or a bit slow and is picked on by everyone, we get another 10 pages of that smashed full force into your face. I don't find that entertaining.
Very masculine-oriented; even the stories that deal with women are handled in a male-oriented way, showcasing in particular the chatter-craze of girls and, of course, the preference for money rather than love from a man.But it was the male-focused stories that did me best, and they deal mostly with either baseball or boxing, but a good lot deal with business-men also.
Either way, the story is going to end with as a rather vapid comedy, or a homely tragedy (save a few dark ones).Really loved this.
Although I blurbed over the sports oriented stories (baseball and boxing), I found the other stories interesting.It was noteable to me to observe what is still the subject of short stories today:(despair, obnoxiousness, devotion, heartbreak, frustration, cruelty, overcoming adversity, love, the shallowness of others) and what is not:(Lardner's stories do not mention sexual sins or obsessions, have no profanity that I can remember, do not address drug abuse other than alcohol, do not obsess on bad parenting, include no rape, mention other races rarely and only as "darkies," and assume traditional sex roles; and there is an absence of tv/technology which seems to be mostly replaced with cribbage, bridge, and drinking!).As a period study alone, reading the stories was valuable.
It's charming as hell.
All the stories are about dopey baseball players getting tricked into telling old fashion humor tales about baseball by sportwriters or about friends visiting friends who don't like their friends.
Then there are a few about cheating in golf, a few love letter compilations that end in a break up, and the story Holden Caulfield mentions in Catcher about the traffic cop that falls in love with the speeding driver.
The humor is old fashioned, but it's charming and still makes you laugh even if it's a little hokie.
Highly recommend going through a story or two.
Hailing from Niles, Michigan, Lardner grew up in a hotbed sports idolatry. As such, Lardner's environs made for the perfect sociological climate for "You Know Me Al," the comedic rendering of an arrogant, money-seeking athlete who often has a couple screws loose. Almost always funny, Lardner is at his best, though, in venturing into the humanistic, as in "There are Smiles," a bone-chilling account of happenstance New York City courtship between a traffic cop and a young woman.
Couldn't get through it, writing was okay but didn't get the stories :(
The best stories are a little too mordant to get my real affection but they used to make me laugh (The Golden Honeymoon, e.g.) Haven't rad them for a couple of decades now.
Reading for the pleasure of reading: 'nuff said. Thoroughly enjoyable.
Original copyright 1915, version 1957. According to the write up, Lardner died in 1933 and "is now recognized as one of the bitterest satirists in American literature." No wonder I loved it!
