https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/839077.The_Three_Little_Wolves_and_the_Big_Bad_Pig
Those were the days of fairy tales.Whenever I tried to teach young readers in the library that all stories have different facets and perspectives, as well as interpretations, I would grab this wonderful fractured fairy tale and read it aloud to a group of kids, previously familiar with the original story of the three little pigs and the big bad wolf.
Is THIS really how the story goes?What I learned from reading fairy tales "differently" with my students was that there are boundaries that can be crossed from acceptable variations and interpretations of common stories to outrageous violations of them which can be comical at times, but also disturbing and undermining.
The first house built of bricks gets knocked down by the BIG BAD PIG who uses a sledge hammer.
The final house is built with flowers, and when the BIG BAD PIG comes along to blow down the house, he breathes in the beautiful sent of the flowers, realises the error or his ways, becomes a nice pig, and ends up living and playing with the little wolves.
The humour in this story, especially as a first time reader is due to the unexpected way in which the houses are destroyed.
The style of the book is large, so it is good to read to large groups of children.
What a wonderfully enchanting spin-off of the Three Little Pigs tale!
The final house built of flowers is the one that lasts due to the magical effect of the fragrant scent on the pig, who subsequently decides “to become a good pig.” The story ends with the three wolves dancing and playing with the pig, who stays for tea, and they “all live happily ever after.” The contrast with the original tale, lovable illustrations, and humor would make this book perfect for a read aloud.
It would work nicely with “The True Story of the Three Little Pigs.”
By revising the orignal story Eugene Trivizas has provided children with a brilliant, funny and paradoxical book that I believe will appeal to not only younger readers but adults alike.The book opens with the three little wolves being cautioned by their mother to be wary of the 'big bad pig' and as a result the wolves decide to build a house made of secure bricks.
This continues with both the pig and the three wolves becoming increasingly ingenious in their attempts with a house made of iron bars and armour, and the use of a pneumatic dril by the pig!Eventually, the wolves build a house made of flowers and it is at this point that the reader questions the rationale behind such an action.
Here's a fun twist to a children's classic!
And it is child recommended!
My six-year-old friend, Chloe, shares why she picked this particular book to tell you about - watch her cute video!I mean, aren't pretty mother wolves enough of an incentive to read this book?
;)Ages 7+**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
I really enjoyed reading The Three Little Wolves and The Big Bad Pig and I think it is perfect for children in key stage one.
It was a great twist on the original story of the Three Little Pigs and The Big Bad wolf.
It was really interesting how the wolves did everything in their power to stay safe by creating big strong houses however this failed at keeping the big bad pig out.
I used this book for a literacy lesson where the children compared the pig’s character from the beginning of the story to the character at the end of the story.
She laughed at several of the twists and turns, and she was eagerly anticipating how the Three Little Wolves would outsmart the Big Bad Pig. I think the story really lost steam for her, though, with the building of the final house, and the pig's conversion to gentleness.
My nephew loved all the construction going on in the book and liked looking at the work the wolves were doing to build their dwellings.
He was always looking for the the appearance of the Big Bad Pig, and he enjoyed the goings-on.

Whichever building materials the wolves use the big bad pig manages to knock it down so eventually they try a new material - flowers.
This book uses repetition which is an effective feature for young children and each page contains illustrations which add to the text.
You as a reader feel you are in the story due to some illustrations having no borders so you feel you are there with the three pigs.The book contains a good moral that violence is not always the answer and that people can change - being bad is not a good thing.
“The Three Little Wolves and the Big Bad Pig” is a story written by Eugene Trivizas along with illustrations by Helen Oxenbury about how three wolves try to outsmart a big bad pig.
The image that stood out the most would be the image of the pig blowing up the wolves’ third house with dynamite and the explosion looked like fire coming out of the ground.“The Three Little Wolves and the Big Bad Pig” is a great creative twist on “The Three Little Pigs” and is like a friendlier version of the original story as the wolves eventually learned that friendship solved their problem.
The Three Little Wolves and The Big Bad Pig is a story based on the tradition story of ‘The Three Little Pigs’.
I then presented them with this alternative, which had a great response and got the children thinking about the role of the wolf in many traditional stories.
Pupils were able to produce wanted posters for the big bad pig and certificates of merit for the wolves in literacy.
I think it was great that the roles were reversed in this story as many traditional stories have children assuming that the wolf will be bad and that other characters in the story will have certain characteristics.
That is until, the Pigs discover that the use of a rather unique building material will not only deter Pig from demolishing the house, but even manages to help him change his personality and turn good.This is a great read for younger children around the ages of 6-8 and is brilliantly illustrated to compliment the story and open discussion up even further.
This humorous story lends itself well to creative writing whereby children can begin to understand the skill of taking a classic tale and putting a different spin on it, and would be ideal for a group of literacy lessons.
In this version, there are 3 little wolves and a big bad pig.
For example,I thought the change in the pig at the end of the story was very unique and I liked how he became the "Good" Bad Pig. I also enjoyed that the wolves did everything that they could think of to stay safe, and in the end, the house that was the most fragile turned out to be the house that worked the best.I also think the illustrations added greatly to the story.
The three little wolves and the big bad wolf is a classic twist of the three little pigs.
I read this to a Yr 2 class and they loved the book so much, they wated it read to them everyday!In this story there are three good wolves and a bad pig, the story was quite the same, which a big change at the end where the pig changed.
I really enjoyed all the different animals as characters in the book.
It is different from the original because in the end, the wolves tricked the pig instead of outsmarting him by building a big and strong house, they built a beautiful one that lured him to change.
I think that children will especially like this story because of animals characters in the book like the flamingo, rhinoceros, and kangaroo.
It would be fun to have my students think of other materials they could build their house out of that is "out-of-the-box." I would read this book to children in K-4.
"Ρούνι, Ρούνι, Ρούνι, το ύπουλο κακό γουρούνι" Έχοντας διαβάσει αυτό το βιβλίο, αυτή η φράση δεν έλεγε να μου ξεκολλήσει και επαναλάμβανε τον εαυτό της στο -τότε- τετράωρο ταξίδι Αθήνα-Σπάρτη, προς πλήρη δυστυχία της υπόλοιπης οικογένειας, που βρισκόταν σφηνωμένη μαζί μου στο αδιέξοδο ενός σαραβαλιασμένου alpha romeo που άκουγε στο όνομα Ιβανόης.Και μόνο γι αυτό, αγαπάω παθιασμένα αυτό το βιβλίο του Τριβιζά, το οποίο παίζει και να είναι το μόνο που έχω καταφέρει να διαβάσω ολόκληρο (η Ζωγραφιά
Έχοντας διαβάσει αυτό το βιβλίο, αυτή η φράση δεν έλεγε να μου ξεκολλήσει και επαναλάμβανε τον εαυτό της στο -τότε- τετράωρο ταξίδι Αθήνα-Σπάρτη, προς πλήρη δυστυχία της υπόλοιπης οικογένειας, που βρισκόταν σφηνωμένη μαζί μου στο αδιέξοδο ενός σαραβαλιασμένου alpha romeo που άκουγε στο όνομα Ιβανόης.Και μόνο γι αυτό, αγαπάω παθιασμένα αυτό το βιβλίο του Τριβιζά, το οποίο παίζει και να είναι το μόνο που έχω καταφέρει να διαβάσω ολόκληρο (η Ζωγραφιά της Χριστίνας είχε την ίδια επίδραση πάνω μου που είχε και το Παραμύθι χωρίς Τέλος.
Είναι από αυτά τα περίεργα αναγνώσματα που ναι μεν σε διασκεδάζουν όταν είσαι μικρός, αλλά γίνονται όλο και πιο αστεία με την πάροδο του χρόνου.
The Three Little Wolves and The Big Bad Pig by Eugene Trivizas is a great modern twist to the original childhood classic The Three Little Pigs and The Big Bad wolf.
It is very funny with its modern take of blowing the house down, with the use of pneumatic drills and dynamite.
Throughout the story it portrays very important morals and ends with a very important message that i believe is vital in any childs development.
The illustrations are excellent, ful of colour and very funny.
Great for school , especially for Early Years and Key stage 1, but i imagine children would love it up to the age of 10.
But that's about all I can say about this book's qualities.The premise of this particular children's book is that it turns upside down the traditional telling of the 'big bad wolf and the three little pigs' story.
The first problem of the story is that we need to believe the big bad pig is the punk ass bully and the little wolves are the fluffy innocents getting their butts kicked.
That was a joke, friends.It's pleasant enough to read, although I think the violent imagery is inappropriate for kids under age 8 or so.
Inspired by the traditional 'three little pigs' tale, this is a brilliant story to share with KS1 children.
At the end of the story, an important moral is depicted in the twist as the pig changes his ways through experiencing the sweet flowers and reflecting on his bad behaviour towards the three little wolves.
I think this book would work well in class as you could compare it to the original, encourage children to discuss the pigs behaviour and maybe pause the story just before the end and ask children to predict what will happen!
An interesting and different take on the traditional children's tale. I enjoyed reading this story and especially liked the way in which it included some modern and challenging vocabulary for children to soak up! The ending of the story is very sweet and adds a subtle moral in about finding friendship where you might not expect it. Whilst I rate this story quite well, I would not recommend it before Reception age simply owing to its length.
This amusing take on  The Three Little Pigs  is a favorite with my students. It is wonderful for talking about stories told from a different point of view, and there are many funny parts that the children laugh out loud at.
A crazy story that really turns The Three Little Pigs on its head. I can imagine reading this to a group of children who, due to knowing the original well, can have a great belly laugh at all the bizarre ways the stories differ.
So cute.
I think this is a good book! I reccommend this book to anybody who has read the three littel pigs
Yet another excellent read from my childhood!!!!!
What a delightful twist/coda on the three little pigs story! Sometimes further reinforcement isn’t the only way forward.
Από τα αγαπημένα μου ως παιδί...
This is a funny book that is a sort of spin off from the traditional three little pigs and the big bad wolf. I think the kids would really enjoy this book because it is silly, and it is predictable so they can follow along easily. The illustrations in this book are beautifully detailed and really draw you in. This book will teach kids to be persistent. If you want something it is okay to fail, you just have to try again until you get it.
The Three Little Wolves and the Big Bad Pig is a modern adaptation of the classic Three Little Pigs story.
Some of the tools used by the pig were unfamiliar to the children so I provided pictures of the tools which the children were asked to identify at the end of the story.
This story is fundamentally a moral tale about bullying; so at the end of the story I started a discussion about bullying with the children using the three little wolves as the victims, asking the children how they would feel if they were being bullied by the big bad pig.
The Three Little Wolves and the Big Bad Pig by Eugene Trivizas.This book is a role reversal of the well-known ‘Three Little Pigs and the Big Bad Wolf’ set in modern times.
Although the Wolves build their house out of plexiglass, armour plates and heavy metal padlocks it is still not enough to stand the might of the Big Bad Pig as he uses a pneumatic drill, sledgehammer and dynamite to break each house down.
The story ends with a twist as the Wolves build their final house out of flower the Pig is intoxicated by the fragrance so much so that it softens his heart and he becomes gentle.
