https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/994241.The_Mystery_of_Tally_Ho_Cottage
The Mystery of Tally-ho Cottage was a book I last read many years ago, probably still in school, but not after unlike some of the other books in the series so all I really remembered about it was that it had the Larkins and the Lorenzos but who they were or what the mystery was about I didn’t remember at all.
Meanwhile Ern is back in Peterswood staying with his other relatives the Wooshes, who happen to live just next to Tally-Ho giving him an opportunity to keep an eye on Tally-ho for Superintendent Jenks has forbidden Fatty to get involved.This was another fun entry in the series with, as I wrote already, a pretty creative solution.
When the Hiltons and the Daykins go to the station to meet Fatty, they encounter a gang of people and a dog.
Looks like the couple is going away leaving the dog behind with the servants.
Later on, the five find out that there is a missing painting and the couple who just left are prime suspects.
And where is the painting hidden?Ern makes an appearance in this one, which always is more enjoyable.
He is packed off to his aunt's place, which is right next door to the couple's home!
This gives the five a lookout right on the spot.
loving the villains' eccentric personality! and poppet!
"A very fine mystery - there's more than meat on this rubber bone!"Book twelve in this series was first published in 1954, and for me, it stands the test of time!The Five Find-Outers: Fatty, Pip, Daisy, Larry and Bets - along with Buster, the dog, are soon on the trail of the thieves!
Goon, the hapless village policeman, is once more struggling to keep up with the shrewdness of Fatty, and the other find-outers!After some interesting and amusing encounters, the breakthrough finally comes when Bets makes an innocent and off-the-cuff remark about the sudden change in the behaviour of Mrs Larkin, in respect of dear Poppet!
A very good book for children that love to read an entertaining mystery.
A pretty decent MYSTERY book for MYSTERY lover! Would recommend this book for children's of all ages!
A goodread for children or the beginner-of-whodunits.
Another good book by Enid Blyton!
good one :-) my first one in 5 find-outer series i guess :-) fatty's disguise is nice :-)
It was good but since not a lot was happening in the middle, i got bored while reading it. These mysteries are definitely Blyton's more mature and complicated ones.Though I don't like the fact that only one character does all the work. And he's a bit annoying too. I'd have liked it more had Blyton allowed the other 4 to do more than marvel at Fatty's brain.
amazing
Merasa bahwa buku ini tak seseru buku Enid Blyton yang biasanya ... atau karena genrenya misteri? Biasa kalau adventurenya seru, sih. Yang Malory Towers sama St. Clarenya juga asik banget.
Another enjoyable Blyton mystery that I read many years ago, now available on Kindle
Pure childhood nostalgia. Great stuff.
Από τα καλύτερα και αγαπημένα βιβλία της παιδικής μου ηλικίας.!Βιβλίο γεμάτο μυστήριο,αγνότητα και γενικά πολύ έξυπνη ιστορία!!
A wonderful story as always.Loved reading this to my child and they e noted it too. They could not get to bed quick enough to hear more
This book manages to be extremely stupid, boring and offensive all at the same time. Quite a feat!
Can the Five Find-outers, a local group of children who always find themselves in the midst of adventure; solve ‘The Mystery of Tally-Ho Cottage’ before Mr Goon, outwitting him yet again?The Mystery of Tally-Ho Cottage encourages children to independently reflect on language and creatively think to try to solve the mystery as they go deeper into the book alongside the Five Find-outers.
It should appeal to both genders and I think not only could it inspire children’s creative writing but it would also be good for independent reading.
Personally, this is one of my favorite books in this series.
I particularly love the climax....I generally love twists.
That was because there was no other outcome, it was very plain, there was no other theory in my mind, the fact that somebody was impersonating the Lorenzos was very obvious, you could guess it by the time you finish 40-50% of the book%But yeah, given the fact that this book is targeted for a younger audience, I would say, Enid Blyton has done a good job with the book as well as the series on the whole.
Book twelve out of fifteen of the Five Find Outers mysteries, and the last one I believe I read as a child, although my memories of this one are more vague, but the title was strong in my mind.Don't expect much different from the previous eleven books, although it really could now be the two find outers and dog. I wouldn't mind a series about Fatty and Bets when they are older, and presumably marries as maybe private eyes, or solving crimes anyways. Anyway another fairly decent five find outers book, three more to go.
I used to love these books when I was younger and read them all the time - they were my favourite Enid Blyton mystery series!
Then the other day when my brother borrowed this one I re-read it to see if they were still as good as I remembered.Long story short - I enjoyed it a lot more than I thought I would.
The 'mystery' is rather simple for this Sherlock lover, and the form of solving it even more so, but the characters are still great.
Fatty is decidedly a genius, and though this is still a kid's book, it's a really entertaining read.
The 4 stars reflect my enjoyment of the books as a kid. As an adult rereading the book, I'd probably rate it somewhere between 2-3 stars. The mystery in this one is decent, but once again it's Freddy being awesome and everyone else going "oh wow, Freddy, you're so awesome!"(as a kid, I was very impressed by Freddy too)***Η επιμέλεια των βιβλίων (στην έκδοση που διάβασα εγώ, αυτή που κυκλοφορούσε και στα παιδικά μου χρόνια) είναι επιεικώς άθλια: "απίδια" αντί για "παιδιά", "πραμαγτικά" σε 2 περιπτώσεις, ορθογραφικά λάθη κλπ.
I knew what the picture thieves were going to do to hide themselves long before they actually did it, but the Find-Outers weren't too annoying in their blindness this time. Bets is very much on the ball in this one, and poor downtrodden Ern even has his moment of brilliance, as well as providing a healthy dose of humour at intervals throughout the story.
A phenomenal book, as expected of Enid Blyton. Has mystery and suspense in plenty, neither lacking in humor nor in interest. A good read!
Exciting. Major part for Ernst which is refreshing.
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
Good read.
love this book after I read the whole seriesAnd it is now my favorite series
good book .read only half
Read this as part of a 3-story compilation of Enid Blyton's Five Found-Outers and a Dog. I still have that thing somwhere.
