https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/377893.Treasure_of_Green_Knowe
Great Grandmother Oldknow gives Tolly an idea of a way to make the needed repairs on the property while saving the children's portraits.
Their second child is sweet Susan who is born blind.With the Captain away, poor Susan is at the mercy of a mother who is ashamed of her but who lets her come visit her room for a few minutes every night.
In the end, he saves the sweet and charming little boy named Jacob and takes him home to be a companion to Susan.You can probably imagine the racist uproar when he brings a "black skinned heathen", as the Captain's hateful mother refers to the child, home to live with them.
It was not until I began to read Treasure at Green Knowe, the second volume in L.M. Boston’s charming Green Knowe series, that I realized just how much I had missed Tolly; his great-grandmother, Mrs. Oldknow; and the spectral Toby, Linnet and Alexander, who died of bubonic plague 300 years before Tolly was born.
I absolutely loved Children Of Green Knowe, a delight for adults as well as children, and none of the magic has disappeared in this volume, which originally appeared in 1958 under the title The Chimneys Of Green Knowe.My only disappointment is that, while Tolly and the kind, understanding Mrs. Oldknow are back, Linnet, Toby and Alexander are missing — literally!
I love the stories that Granny tells to Tolly about the old house and the family. Home on Spring break, Tolly explores the old house and looks for treasure. We meat cousin Susan and her friend Jacob. The narration by Simon Vance is mesmerizing. I cannot wait to start the next one.
This is a nice very light children's adventure story. Not much happens as far as action goes, but Tolly is visiting his grandmother on holiday and learns about Green Knowe, the house he is staying at, through stories and exploring. I enjoyed listening to this lots.
Somewhere a date in the late 1700s is mentioned, though, so when I read about the gypsy woman having a cageful of betcherrigahs (budgerigars), I thought "oops!" Because the very first budgerigar was not taken to England until about 1840 by John Gould, and captive breeding didn't really get started till 10 years later.
Again, the ending seemed a bit rushed, but hey, better that than to have it rattle on and become tiresome.And having inadvertently started Vol 3 before this one, after reading Vol 2 I am wondering (view spoiler)[ if they found the treasure and it was all those gold pieces etc, why did she rent out the house?
I am rereading this beloved series.
I find that when I read childhood favorites as an adult, the really good books are never silly or immature.
They have a long-lasting ability to draw me in and capture the wonder I had when first reading them as a child.
The house and people in this series are dear friends and their stories are timeless.
I loved the line Tolly said at the end: Why do people only invent things that go faster and faster, instead of finding some way way to keep it at now?
Perhaps it is by reading old favorites that we can achieve this - just a little.
Love this series of children's books, which are full of mystery and magic. The house at Green Knowe touches bother the present and the past as the backdrop of the adventures of Tolly, a young boy who comes to live there between school terms.
This book covers Tolly's spring visit to his Grandmother's house in Green Knowe. I really enjoyed his Tolly learns about the past inhabitants of the house and their daily life. He meets Susan and Jacob who are sure to win your heart, as they make a dynamic duo. This series makes me wish to have a granny that would share such wonderful stories with me.
Extremly well written and compelling. However, not nearly as wonderful or wonder full as the first. Is that because we know what to expect? Perhaps. The first story was exquisite in its simplicity and wrapped in a sure and flawless prose. This second novel has more mystery and new characters both good and evil. L. M. Boston is a truly gifted writer. Enjoy.
I guess I must have read this at some point, since I remember the part about the blind girl her stupid brother and his horrible friend forcing the slave boy to climb the chimney. I don't remember the rest with Tolly and his grandmother and the treasure, though, and I don't feel interested enough to reread it.
I enjoyed this book and the historical and mystery sides of it. I was introduced to this book by my mother and though i found the first book less engaging i really liked this one.It addresses the themes of discrimination and prejudice through how many characters treat Jacob.
This second book in the Green Knowe series was a big disappointment. I absolutely loved the first one, but this one was full of casual racism. I guess this isn't surprising, as it was published in the 1950s, but it was still hard to stomach.
The present-day stuff was predictable and kind of boring, but the stories from the past were wonderful.
I'm not saying this is my favorite because I think I like the first one best but I have always been fascinated by the embroidery done with hair in this book!
That was a good, fun read. And now, I can watch "From Time To Time", which seems to have an excellent cast and I'm very excited about.
The amount of ambiguity present in the existence of the 'others,' and the nature of their interaction with the modern world, now seems like creative story telling; as an adult reader, I can appreciate the ambiguity without needing the solid answers I wanted as a kid.
Rereading as a modern adult, though, I'm not sure how to feel about the character of Jacob.
I realize this book is a product of its time, and while I still enjoy the nostalgia of the story reading it as an adult, I doubt I'd give this as a gift to a kid.
So I read some of this series as a child, and was reading this with a view to then passing it on to my 8-year-old niece who is a voracious reader.
And bits of this still are BUT it has a young black boy in this who has been rescued from being a slave and some of the language and the way this is done is...
It's beautifully written and atmospheric and there are things that I really liked about it, but I think needs to be read with an appreciation of the fact that attitudes have changed - and what was liberal when this was written, is a bit problematic now, even with good intentions behind it.
I had a hard time with this book. I loved the first and enjoyed parts of this, but my enthusiasm for this book was squashed by the treatment of Jacob. I can't quite sort the time period that Tolly inhabits, so perhaps expecting Tolly and his grandmother to reflect on the treatment of Jacob was too much. This is not a book I will keep in my collection; there are already too many books written by western European colonizers with a white man 'saving' a stereotyped version of a person of color.
A charming book. Certainly a missed book from my childhood. The language is some what dated, though there is a strong moral message to it. I enjoyed the time slip elements to it. I look forward to read more books by the author, Lucy M. Boston.
Wonderful the way the quilting connects and shapes the narrative. Lucy Boston gets into the minds of say a 10 year old and uses language in such a rich and focussed way. What a house. What an adventure.
The novel bounces between two stories, but in such a smooth, seamless way. I love how she writes a blind character.
Arrived in the mail as a present to read during exam period. Excellent description. I would like to visit the Green Knowe mansion one day...
Before long Tolly meets all these shades and starts to realize the house still has secrets held within her walls, and maybe in her chimneys.Awhile back when I was having severe Downton Abbey withdrawals I learned that about a year before Downton Julian Fellowes, and a fair amount of the actors from the show, where in a movie he did called From Time to Time.
The movie was adapted from the book The Chimneys of Green Knowe, or as it was released in the US, Treasure of Green Knowe, because apparently treasure appeals more to us money mad Americans than chimneys...
Treasure of Green Knowe, aka The Chimneys of Green Knowe, second in the series, has some drawbacks but maintains much of the sense of place and beautiful prose found in the first.This time, Tolly comes home to Green Knowe to find the picture of the three children he met on his last visit has been loaned to a museum.
Too, there are other children from the past to meet and learn about: Susan, a blind girl, and Jacob, friend and servant, who lived in the house during the late eighteenth century.
Here's #2 of 6 of the Green Knowe series, once again with an appealing GREAT-GRANDMOTHER major character.  Green Knowe is based upon an actual English house where author Lucy Boston lived: The Manor at Hemingford Grey built in the 1130s complete with moat and gardens; it is one of the oldest continuously occupied houses in Britain. See links below for pictures.House: http://www.greenknowe.co.uk/gallery.htmlTown: http://www.hemingfordgrey.org.uk/ TREASURE OF GREEN KNOWE has more of the unforgett
Green Knowe is based upon an actual English house where author Lucy Boston lived: The Manor at Hemingford Grey built in the 1130s complete with moat and gardens; it is one of the oldest continuously occupied houses in Britain.
See links below for pictures.House: http://www.greenknowe.co.uk/gallery.htmlTown: http://www.hemingfordgrey.org.uk/ TREASURE OF GREEN KNOWE has more of the unforgettable Tolly and Mrs. Oldknow, a woman who dances a fine line between real and fantasy as she relates her English house history tales to Tolly in the SECOND of the Green Knowe series.
Yes, he solves the mystery of the missing family treasure -- providing much needed revenue just in the nick of time for Mrs. Oldknow and Green Knowe.
She occasionally would tell stories of similar style and content as Tolly gets told.
It's a matter of weighing up the book as being 'on the road' to more enlightened thinking, or as being (to be kind) somewhat patronising in tone and content.I kept getting dejà vu feelings and think we may have had it read to us at infant school.
It still has some magical charm but I would have strong reservations about recommending it for a modern child...Maybe it's time someone took the stories and re-told them.
Book centers around a series of stories exploring the history of Green Knowe.
Tolly has returned but meets different characters from the house's past this time, his Grandmother is stitching together a quilt from remaining clothes of the house's past inhabitants (she's obviously a keen upcycler - although one hopes she isn't terrorizing people to buy her stuff with some naff etsy account) - as she works on the quilt every evening, more secrets and stories from the past are divulged.The use of the 'n' word really jarred with me and I'm not sure if this would have been used historically at this time - if so it still feels uncomfortable in a children's book which doesn't explicitly chronicle black history per say (where for example in a historical novel it's usage might be seen as permissible to document language and terms people used at the time?) Maybe this educates children about how white people viewed black people but I just felt it was unnecessary.
The movie (four stars) can be found on Netflix which is called "From Time to Time".
It is a story of curiosity and exploration set upon a period home which the author based her stories on.
This estate whereby this story is based, is actually The Manor in Hemingford Grey, Huntingdonshire, in England.
Boston and the illustrations were done by her son, Peter, published between 1954 and 1976 which tells the story about fictional relatives long ago that lived on the family estate.
I recommend and give this 4 out of 5 stars.
