https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1047706.To_Tame_a_Land
"Never draw a gun unless you mean to shoot, never shoot unless you shoot to kill."Louis L'Amour was a prolific story teller.
It would make a good made for TV movie.Twelve year old Rye Tyler and his father were traveling west in a wagon train when the wheel of their wagon broke.
The wagon train master left them behind and Rye's father was killed by Indians.
Rye learns the lessons of life in the West but when he kills a man he is forced to leave Logan and his new home.Rye rides in the mountains, mines for gold, works on cattle drives, gets a job breaking horses.
I don't even know how to express how much I love it and I'm pretty sure everything I say here will be incredibly lame (don't read my original review, btw, it's even more lame); but I HAVE TO TRY.
I met them when I was 14; and ever since, whenever I think about what true love really looks like .
Their interactions (like everything in this book) are sketched in black-and-white, you might say, with very little detail.
Not only is the climax absolutely flawless; but the subtle way L'Amour foreshadows the events of the climax literally from the first chapters just kills me.
This was my first dive into the world of Louis L'Amour books, and I was quite impressed and definitely look forward to reading more!
Rye was a very interesting and engaging character and I enjoyed following his story and "seeing the world through his eyes", so to speak.
The authentic Old-West setting, marauding bad guys and gun-slinging action that you expect from a Western was all there, in spades.
All in all, I greatly enjoyed To Tame a Land and look forward to reading more L'Amour novels in the future!
(view spoiler)[As expected from a Western, there is lots of gun-slinging, bad guys, etc, and multiple shootings and deaths.
This is my favorite L'Amour book. I think it's nearly a perfect example of the western genre. To Tame a Land wasn’t my first L’Amour, but it was one of the early ones. A young boy and his Pa get left behind in Indian Country. The boy grows up to be a gunfighter. It really engaged my imagination and I’ve reread this particular book more times than any other in my collection.
This book is windblown pines, prairie dust, buffalo herds, horseback rides, gunsmoke, sweat, blood, guts, glory. It’s cowboys and outlaws. Sheriffs and gunmen. Men and cowards. It’s having a horse as a companion and a gun you can trust. I LOVED IT. The style is sparse and subtle, the story kept me guessing, and the moral foundation is spot-on. Lots of thought-provoking stuff thrown in with the Old West-style action. Recommended for 15+ for violence and scattered swearing.
Given that I own a zillion Louis L'Amour books (a collection begun in jr. high), I figured I should add my favorites here.To Tame a Land is, hands down, my favorite. Admittedly, many of the plot lines in his books are similar (they're westerns-- what do you expect?), but I loved ALL the characters in this one.And I still think this is begging to be adapted for film.
"It is all very well for those who live in the East to talk of more peaceful means, or for those who live in the later, gentler years, but we were men with the bark on, and we were opening up raw, new country, mustang country, bronco country, uncurried, unbroken, and fierce.
Quite a memorable one, before an Empire Strikes Back like plot twist (if you don't read the back cover description).
To Tame A Land has one of the best casts of characters outside of a Sackett novel.
This feels like one of L'Amour's better plotted novels and is my new definition of a page-turner.
Λοιπόν, δεν ξέρω αν έχει σχέση το γεγονός ότι είχα καιρό να διαβάσω βιβλίο του συγγραφέα, πάντως το συγκεκριμένο μου άρεσε πάρα μα πάρα πολύ και το συγκαταλέγω στα πέντε καλύτερα βιβλία του Λ’Αμούρ που έχω διαβάσει (μαζί με αυτό έχω φτάσει αισίως τα δεκαέξι).
Ουσιαστικά έχουμε να κάνουμε με μια ιστορία ενηλικίωσης στην Άγρια Δύση, από τη στιγμή που ο Ράιαν Τάιλερ μένει ορφανός στα δώδεκά του χρόνια.
Μου έλειψε πολύ η γραφή και οι ιστορίες του Λουίς Λ’Αμούρ τόσα χρόνια, το μόνο σίγουρο είναι ότι δεν θα αργήσω ξανά τόσο πολύ να διαβάσω κάποιο βιβλίο του.
:DThis was my first ever Louis L'Amour book, and I now definitely want to check out more of his work.
:)) His style is simplistic and not overly wordy (usually I like wordier, more descriptive books, but I was in the mood for something easy to read.
This was perfect.) but the story is definitely not simplistic but, rather, superb.
I thought it was really neat how he became a gunman almost against his will, definitely against his better judgement.
*sniff* All in all, this was a great read and I can't wait to try more of Mr. L'Amour's books.
Easily one of my favourite L'Amour books.
I really enjoyed it.
It may not be literary gold, but reading it, I feel I found myself a little gold nugget of pure reading delight.
This is as 'western' as they come.
Mr L'Amour sure knew how to spin a solid yarn.
I just love how he manages to paint the scenes with effective language and imagery.
He creates dialogue that just feels right.
A rare talent and he does it so well one hardly notices.
It does not feel forced at all.
My Daddy used to love reading L'Amour westerns, I think I inherited that trait.
I am in the process of reading all of Louis L'Amour's novels. I really liked this one. It was more epic in scope, covering a number of years of the Old West and the territory from Texas to California. As with all of L'Amour's novels, this had a great hero, lots of action, and moments of pure education of the history of the Old West. Highly recommend it to those who like the genre and like the history of the Old West.
So he is on the hunt to find her but soon finds out that she is kidnapped by a gang of outlaws.
I think the ending of this book was very good.
My favorite part was when Rye was in a shootout with some of the outlaws and managed to make it out alive from his home town.
I think that this is a good book.
There are many books like this that are about the Wild West and about early America.
It has a good pace and I liked reading this book.
Ryan Tyler is orphaned at a young age and finds himself gifted with a gun, a role he takes up reluctantly, but without fear or regret.
Learning to survive from age 13 stranded on the plains from a wagon train, Tyler soon is a westerner and grows to manhood facing its challenges.Although this is a fairly well-written story, it had a somewhat disjointed feel, as if it were pulled together from several other L'Amour short stories and was missing pages at times.
Despite the name, it didn't really feel like a history or depiction of taming the west, just one young man's series of adventures culminating in finding a girl and settling down back east.
Rye Tyler’s most obvious skill is his ability to draw fast and shoot straight.
In other words he is really good at killing people and he lives in a time and a place where good men who are good with a gun are needed.
The problem is Rye doesn’t want to kill anyone, and the more word spreads about his lightning fast draw the more trouble makers seek him out to see if he lives up to his reputation.
Not having been a Western reader, I thought I'd try a few, and I am finding the ones I've read similar.
He can take that in any direction, for good or evil, and in this one, as in most I suspect, he chooses the good path.
So some people die at the hands of our hero, but we are assured they are very evil people.
- In the West, you can tell the very evil people by the way they look.
Makes the reader feel a kinship with the hero gunslinger very early in the book.
There is just something so relaxing about curling up with a book that's full of gun slinging, cattle thieves and a happy ending.
That is one of the beauties of Louis L'amour (at least the ones that I've read) - the good guy always wins in the end.
The good thing about Rye is that he doesn't like killing and he only kills people who don't leave him a choice.
Through the book I kept thinking how I would have loved to have Rye on my side.
One of my favorite Louis L'amore novels. It was similar to some of his other stories, but this one was especially good. I liked the characters and that it covered a lot of territory from St. Louis to California, Utah, Colorado, New Mexico, Texas and New Orleans. Only negative was that maybe ending was a bit abrupt, but overall a classic western.
A very good book by one of my favorite authors. Every western fan should have a copy in his library.
Great story, plot, characters. It's a little bit too short.
Rye Tyler was orphaned at a young age when his father was killed by Indians shortly after his mother died.He had to grow up quickly, and he was the quintessential L'Amour hero: honest, courageous, loyal, chivalrous.The intrigue Louis wove in keeps the reader engrossed, and I don't think I'll ever forget the shock I felt when I first read it and found out who Ash Milo really was.One problem I have with Louis L'Amour books is that whenever I tell myself just one more chapter, I don't stop at that chapter.
Louis L'Amour wrote a whole lot of books, this one way back in 1955.
However, he also wrote poetry, science fiction, travelogues and history.
His history is fascinating and provides ideas and color for his stories.
Did you know that he was a professional boxer and won most of his fights?To Tame A Land is one of his stand-alone books.
Rye Tyler is the main character and narrator of the story.
After being befriended by a quiet, but dangerous, cowboy he learns to shoot and live off the land.
The scenery is colorful, the characters rich, and the action is pretty fast.
I have been looking for something totally different to read for some time.
To Tame a Land by Louis L'Amour was a Kindle Daily Deal I picked up 2 days ago for $1.99.
It is the story of Ryan "Rye" Tyler's life from the time he's 12, and his father is killed by indians, to his life as a famous, and yet honorable, gunfighter.
My only complaint is that the advertising information from the publisher ruins the ending--an ending that should be a huge surprise and would have been had I not read about the book in the beginning.
As a side note, every Louis L'Amour book and short story ever written is still in print.
A young boy is left alone after a wagon train leader decides to leave him and his father behind when a wheel is broken on their wagon.
They are then found by some Indians, who kill the father and loot the wagon.
Rye has a horse and his mom's picture and proceeds to learn non-book education from a friend, thus helping survive in the west.
He becomes a man who is fast and fair with his gun and helps make the land safe for the "good folks".He works at various jobs until the end arrives with a surprise.I find myself rereading many of L'Amour books, just because of the descriptions and the plots.
Good WesternThis was a good western that moved along at a fast pace. My only complaint was when Rye Tyler's Henry rifle magically changed to a Winchester after a couple of chapters. But it didn't distract from the story so no harm no foul. As usual the character realistic men and women. There is a plot twist to the story, but you can see it coming if you pay attention. Louis L'Amour just make it so easy to enjoy a story. So saddle up and take a ride.
Guns, cows, badmen, goodmen and a girlAnother typically good Louis L'Amour western.!y sister calls them " bodice rippers for men” I suppose she is right.Just this romance is not just about a guy and a girl.
Read to my wife on 3 - 4 Dec 2018 at the home of our son, Jason. We really liked the book. It was an easy read and full of action. We love the Louis L'Amour genre. It reminds me of my heritage.
read as an E book
Has all a reader can expect in a great Western tale: good guys, bad guys, gunfights, scenic landscapes, hardships, and friendships. A quick read with a timeless story.
I am new to reading his books and I have become a true fan. My dad loved to read westerns and now so do I.
Enjoyed this western tale and really enjoyed listening to Jason Culp reading it.
