https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/305860.Philosophy_As_a_Way_of_Life
That book opened my eyes to something essential, which is the thesis of this book: ancient philosophy was not the abstract theoretical discourse that philosophy is today, but was a way of life, a means of transforming one's perception of reality, and was accompanied by spiritual disciplines to help people transform their lives.
(The difference, which the author does not get into, is that the spiritual disciplines of the East have been transmitted to the present, whereas the spiritual exercises of ancient Western philosophy disappeared into Christian mysticism when Christianity took over Western thought.) This is one of the two best books on the history of philosophy that I've ever read.
Philosophy's ultimate subject matter, according to Hadot, consists of such spiritual exercises as: learning to live, learning to die, learning to dialogue, learning to read, learning to see all things experienced in the light of the idea of the irreducible one, learning to relate concrete experiences to universal principles, learning to master our inner dialogue, learning the distinction between living according to the true nature of man and living according to the deformed image of human nature that we inherit from our societies through our “education”, learning the psychological attitude of ego-transcending objectivity, and learning to live according to our most comprehensive perspective attainable on the world, among other things.
The “good life” was a concept held by most Ancient Greek philosophers.
3. Hadot wants his readers to take a new look at ancient Greek philosophers beyond the teachings of modern day academics, beyond the view of the ancients as a bunch of dry pedagogues and scriveners.
This book is a call for “Philosophy as a Way of Life”.
To this end, Hadot discusses the main schools of thought coming out of that time and place: Platonism, Aristotelianism , Stoicism, Epicureanism, Cynicism and Pyrrhonism.
(Although Hadot dismisses Buddhism as a source of such practice, I find there to be a great deal of parallel thought between Mahayana Buddhist philosophy and Pyrrhonism.)Point 5.


A must read for anyone interested in ancient philosophy and seekers of wisdom. This book has a great way of explaining how it was when philosophy was a way of life and will give you suggestions on how to think for yourself and for the present moment.
L'innamorato monta di guardia alla porta dell'amato, passa la notte sotto le stelle. È un mendicante e un soldato. Ma è anche ricco di invenzioni, mago, abile parlatore, poiché l'amore rende ingegnosi. Scoraggiamento e speranza, bisogno e sazietà, si succedono ininterrottamente con i successi e gli scacchi dell'amore.
La influencia del ejercicio espiritual de estas corrientes filosóficas griegas en el modo de vivir cristiano.Destaco estas ideas del libro:“Según los estoicos filosofar, consiste, por lo tanto, en ejercitarse en , es decir, en vivir consciente y libremente: conscientemente, pues son superados los límites de la individualidad para reconocerse parte de un cosmos animado por la razón; libremente, al renunciar a desear aquello que no depende de nosotros y que se nos escapa, no ocupándonos más que de los que depende de nosotros –una rectitud de acción en conformidad con la razón.”“Asimismo el ejercicio espiritual consistente en intentar vivir el momento presente es entendido de modo muy distinto por estoicos y epicúreos.
Hadot strikes me as a cross between Foucault and Leo Strauss: he shares with the Strauss the view that, as the book title suggests, philosophy is not primarily and perhaps not even ultimately concerned with assigning truth values to assertoric propositions.
He shares with Foucault a certain historicism; the way he talks about the doctrines and methods of so-called "schools of thought" is somewhat symptomatic of this fact.
The editing in this volume is lazy, and Hadot is repetitious and his style is sometimes, shall we say, less than riveting.
Hadot presents philosophy as "spiritual exercises" through essays on Socrates, Marcus Aurelius, and others.
In addition to the exercises the book includes essays on the methods of philosophy, discussions of Socrates and Marcus Aurelius.
The essay on Marcus Aurelius was enhanced by my concurrent reading of his Meditations which can be seen as an example of the way of practicing philosophy described in Hadot's book.
The book concludes with a section on "Themes" where the nature of happiness and understanding the world through philosophizing are considered.
He concludes with the title essay that recommends practicing philosophy as 'a way of life'.
Lucrare esențială pentru iubitorii filosofiei antice.
Hadot are un stil clar și accesibil chiar și pentru profani ca mine.
Mă bucur că am descoperit această carte deoarece mă obligă să recitesc toți filosofii pre-creștini din noua perspectivă pe care mi-a indicat-o Hadot.
Trebuie să remarc extraordinara calitate a acestei ediții românești apărută la o editură despre care n-am mai auzit și care se ocupă în principal cu scrieri religioase.
Și vorbim de o carte complexă cu multe note de subsol pe fiecare pagină.
Acest lucru arată respect pentru cititor și apreciez foarte mult această grijă.
So the dialogue is friendship for knowledge, an attitude of love towards it that demands an engagement that is dialectical.
The nature of dialogical dialectic of the Platonic form is this battle and constant questioning, where the interlocutor brings a random element to the engagement that makes it capable of transforming oneself and the other.
The dialogue is a spiritual exercise, to an extent it entails a conversion- but it is not a manipulation in so far as both interlocutors are open to the process of transformation.
What is the basic difference then between sophism as the art of persuasion and the platonic dialogue?
Read much of this book on a one-to-one study group with Dresden; we both enjoyed what we read, although she said that John said that he had heard Hadot was "Foucault light." Hadot is certainly simple, and one can tire of his seemingly endless search for sources and authors that match his thesis—and yet that thesis opens up a new realm for philosophy past and future, but most especially in the present.
More generally, he nicely delineated a path of reading that could be continued, whether I want to delve into ancient or modern philosophy.
What if I was to say that, in the end, your life was nothing but a stain on the pavement?
Quite likely you would be offended and retort how I dare to utter such repulsive remark.
However, in my defence I would say that is exactly the point for I am a philosopher.
Philosophy as a way of life does not involve being rude, but it does mean to express ideas that may seem odd and/or offensive to some.
I would also maintain that instead of being offended, you should answer like, “Pavement, eh?
Despite his own thesis that ancient philosophy "was a mode of existing-in-the-world, which had to be practiced at each instant and the goal of which was to transform the whole of the individual's life", Hadot's book does not provide much information on the ancient philosophers' mode of existing in-the-world and the relationship between their philosophy and their way of life.
There is not much historical evidence on the lives of ancient philosophers that their philosophy determined their way of living.
In some cases, there seems to be contradictions between their philosophy and lifestyle.
Seneca's life is such an example which contradicts his Stoic philosophy.
This is an excellent book.Unfortunately I only understood every third paragraph. Much of the book went over my head, but the third that I did understand made it one of the best books I've read.If you are interested in Stoicism then I would recommend giving this book a read. I would love to have someone to discuss it with and perhaps help me gain some insights on the bits I couldn't fully appreciate.
Superlative examination of philosophy's evolution through practical guide to the good life, scholastic theological foil, to it's present academic, abstract form. Hadot details the spiritual exercises of Stoicism, Epicureanism, Pythagors and Plotinus; concentrating also on themes in common such as devotion to the present moment, virtue as a lived exercise and philosophy as a means of living well. Recommended.
A truly excellent book - gives a wonderful, historical sweep on the evolution of spiritual exercises from the time of antiquity to the present day. I would recommend it to the religious and non-religious alike, anyone who is interested in the big questions in life and how we might examine them, and live our responses to them, on a moment-by-moment basis.Hadot was an innovative genius.
Self-help for would-be philosophers. De Botton avant-la-lettre. Rather boring and clichéd. Fails to move or provoke. Reads like the philosophical equivalent of a satisfied Socrates cultivating his garden...
Un libro imprescindibile per chi ama la filosofia nella sua forma più pura, quella antica, greco-romana.Un testo imprescindibile per chi ama e vive la filosofia.
There is a lot of information in here but not the kind that I was looking for... I did not enjoy the thesis defending writing style.
This book changed my life.
BEAUTIFUL book on philosophy.
It can't decide whether it wants to be a scholarly book on the early history of applied philosophy, or if it wants to be an actionable guide to influential ideas of philosophers, intended to help the reader make the most of their life.Yet at its best, it gives you a new, powerful lens to assess how you act in the world, and how others act in the world.
They clash with the idea set forth in the Foreword: that contemporary philosophy is largely focused on "linguistic or logical analysis", and it has lost its original purpose (of figuring out better ways to live one's life)***.
Un profluvio di citazioni e rimandi diretti ai testi fa’ immergere il lettore in quella straordinaria fonte di saggezza che è stata la filosofia successiva alla rivoluzione socratica e lo guida attentamente alla riscoperta del profondo valore psicologico di cui la ragion filosofica è fin nell’intimità imbevuta.
Qui si cela il cuore pulsante della filosofia, e dal canto mio non posso che confermare e svelare in poche parole tale palese segreto: fare filosofia è trasformazione interiore, è perfezionamento della propria personalità attraverso l’auto-osservazione critica e distaccata che soltanto un pensiero fondato sulla metodologia filosofica può esercitare.
«La religione greca finisce col suo vero dio: il saggio».Chi per passione o per istintiva attrazione si è trovato (piacevolmente) costretto a studiare la filosofia (antica ma anche d'ogni d'epoca) qualora avesse l'occasione d'incontrare questa dotta raccolta di saggi sul pensiero antico (il pensiero greco che è vissuto fino a tutta la lunga storia romana ed terminato solo dopo la patristica medievale) finirebbe, con molta probabilità, per domandarsi se ciò che ha studiato (il discorso filosofico) inevitabilmente non abbia finito per marcare il suo proprio modo d'esistere.
It was a series of lectures about practices in ancient philosophy (primarily Stoicism, Epicurianism, and Platonism) and how they are focused on living a good life.
I expected a practical guide, but this was more of a historical overview of the philosophies that talk about living a philosophical life.
If you want to know how philosophy can be applied to your life (the spiritual exercises spoken of in this book), you have to read the books the author is talking about rather than this book.
Pierre Hadot is a historian of philosophy, specializing in the philosophies of Ancient Greece and Rome. In this book he describes the spiritual exercises prescribed by the various philosophical schools—Stoicism, Epicureanism, etc. These exercises were eventually taken up by the Catholic Church, but they are typical of self-cultivation philosophies generally, including Confucianism, Taoism, Vedanta, and Transcendentalism. I find this book to be an excellent resource in my on-going study of self-culture in 19th century American literature, especially that of the Transcendentalists. I recommend this book highly.
This was a book I first heard about from reading Ryan Holiday’s “Ego is the Enemy,” which also led me to read Marcus Aurelius’ “Meditations,” both of which I recommend. This book, however, was remarkably astute and engaging. While it can be repetitive, I think the lessons and ideas being discussed are important enough to make the repetition feel less redundant and more like a spiritual exercise in itself, bringing us closer to a new understanding of philosophy and its place in our lives.
Hadot is a historian of ancient philosophy writing. Here he takes a look at philosophy's evolution. Today, philosophy is viewed as a mostly theoretical topic, while for the ancients it was a true way of life. He also considers Christianity and its ties to philosophy. Overall, I found it to be a little too heavy for my liking.
