https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178788.The_China_Study
You know, "Diets Rich in Dairy Products Accelerate Cancer Growth." and "Plant-Based Diets Prohibit Cancer Growth." There are so many scientists who have already made their money and don't need to be slaves to the power establishment and who would LOVE to be responsible for conclusive research like this; they could win the Nobel Prize, for sure!
I just hate that Campbell goes from showing us these really interesting studies and then takes a leap to say that 100% plant-based diet is the best.He also provides as "evidence" some studies by Esseltyn and others who REVERSED heart disease by putting people on restricted diets.
I think most people would read this book and seriously feel scared, he certainly wrote it with that purpose in mind.
If I speak my truth, based on everything I’ve read, researchers and health professionals that I respect and trust, I do strongly belief that quality meat rich in omega 3’s is the healthiest source of protein for our bodies.
This is what I eat predominantly for meat.Who knows, maybe further research will come out to show that a no-meat diet is best, but I really do not believe that any science so-far proves that to be the truth (from a health standpoint).
He demonizes animal foods, backing up his claims with epidemiological data and rat studies.
I don’t think that the answer is to start eating like a rural Chinese peasant.
He misses the point that it isn’t tall per se, but the other impairments that go along with not reaching your genetic potential for height.He does make some good points about the typical American diet.
In the rat studies it looks like the benefits of a low animal protein diet taper off at/below 10% of calories from animal protein.
I really wish Campbell would have included the most compelling data from this study.
Below is a study co-authored by Colin Campbell and is derived from the Cornell China Study.
Colin Campbell, Wenxun Fanb, Robert Parkerc, Julius LeytondThe conclusion of this study (same Cornell China Study) was that consuming fish was one of the strongest indicators of overall good health.
Fish had the strongest correlations with decreasing chrnonic disease, Cardiovascular disease, and cancer.
I’m giving this book 2 stars due to Campbell excluding this data and therefore misrepresenting the study in the book.
Wow! Time to start cutting down on animal protein! This is a well supported (with real scientific evidence) on the dangers of eating animal protein...from cancers, to arthritis to osteoporosis. It also provides good insight into how some in the scientific community, government and industry work together to keep valuable nutritional information from the public. The most interesting and surprising point for me was the dangers of milk and how increased milk consumption can actually cause osteoporosis. This book is written in a style appropriate for both doctors/scientists as well as the average public.
This is empirical data that proves that our diet overall and animal proteins specifically are the root cause for most of the diseases/ailments of affluence.
Additionally, this book looks at the effect and results of the various industries that depend on the continued promotion of animal proteins (e.g., dairy, meat, fish, politicians, drug industry, medical practises -- specifically surgery).
It also highlights the misinterpretation of many researchers of the results of studies and using a reductionist view (i.e., pulling a single fact or point out of a study rather than looking at the whole; consider that many of our health headlines identify single causes/cures -- Vitamin C, alcohol, etc.) At the least, read it to be informed.
This book tells the story of that shift - the story of Dr. Campbell's life and career as a scientist who was persuaded by what the growing body of nutrition research (including the groundbreaking epidemiological study he led) demonstrated.
Second of all, he presents a concise yet thorough case for just why the typical Westerner probably hasn't heard about all of the peer-reviewed, objective research presented in The China Study and why most people can't shake the opinion that animal protein is a necessary component of the human diet, even after they're confronted with evidence that it does more harm than good.
The most important book I've read in a long time.
Strongly recommended, if you're interested in the latest research on nutrition and health, disease, cancer, energy, and longevity.
Insights into decreasing the risk of cancer for myself, family, and friends, is paramount.The book has some unpopular themes - unpopular with big established industries like meat and dairy, and the media, politics, and world of business they influence.
However, as our recent presidential inauguration demonstrates, a time of change is upon us.
He also makes the case that animal protein is simply bad for long-term health, which is why he discourages consuming dairy products.
You can always go back to eating meat.Update (September 2012) A well-cited critique of this book, excerpt below, can be found here: http://www.fourhourworkweek.com/blog/...The China Study contains many excellent points in its criticism of the health care system, the overemphasis on reductionism in nutritional research, the influence of industry on research, and the necessity of obtaining nutrients from foods.
But its bias against animal products and in favor of veganism is a preexisting bias that results in a mainstream book intended—first and foremost—to convert.
This book is based on years of research, both in the real world and in labs.
It is basically about the remarkable relationship between the foods we eat and cancer, heart disease, diabetes, and other illnesses.
It is information that food companies, doctors, drug companies, etc.
don't want you to know about.On a related note, if you have not seen the documentary "Super Size Me" yet, I highly recommend you go rent it.
The DVD also has bonus features.
Go to the extra interviews and watch the interview with Eric Schlosser (author of "Fast Food Nation").
It is a little long but important.
Very interesting study. We all know at this point already that Eating fresh and organic veggies and fruits, and unprocessed food, Staying away from sugar and Minimizing animal products are the best you can do for your diet.
However, the book was better overall than I’d anticipated.First the bad: I was warned that this was not a “vegan” book but the authors completely lost me when on page 242 fish is in the category to minimize consumption, not eliminate it, after spending the rest of the book advocating eating 100% plant products.
This is not the book’s fault of course, but it did diminish my ability to enjoy the reading experience.Now the good:I liked how he talked about his life and work; it kept the book from being too dry.There’s a lot of excellent nutritional information included, including the dangers of consuming animal protein (worth at least a star all by itself) and other lesser known nutritional knowledge.
What it did was make us go back to the word of wisdom and compare.
I hadn't realized how little meat we should eat..."Flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air...to be used sparingly; And it is pleasing unto me that they should not be used, only in times of winter, or of cold, or famine." (sec.
12-13) So after reading the Word of wisdom again Brad and I have decided to cut our meat consumption down to once a week and eat more whole grain and vegetables and fruits.
Save yourself the time and just read section 89.
Before I go any further, you should know that his conclusions are very similar to the diet from my favorite Nutrition book, "Eat, Drink, and Be Healthy." Dr. Willett uses more reliable scientific data to advocate his diet, which is mostly whole plant foods, with healthy vegetable oils (like olive and canola oil) and a small amount of fish added.
Comparing beef protein to casein protein is ludicrous - even if one caused cancer, why would he conclude that the other did, too, just because they both come from animals?
I'll probably get the print version at some point, for reference, but I'm SO thankful an audio recording exists, because – to be honest – I'd probably just skim through the printed book and not really get the full impact of what Dr. Campbell has to say.
My brother, a trained chef who eats organic and avoids artificial sweeteners, but can’t give up his meat.
That will likely be the case for most meat-eaters, if they could even be persuaded to give this book a shot.
Colin Campbell for putting this information out there, for those of us who will read it and take it to heart.
The China Study is maybe one of the most important science books of the twenty-first century. Challenging the current scientific paradigm, biochemist T. Colin Campbell, through his decades of nutritional study, presents the reader with a plethora of information that can prevent and reverse the chronic diseases that plague the West. It's all down to what you eat.
I value my non-enraged time too much.I got a few chapters in and decided that there wasn't any point in continuing.
Oh sorry, I mean, animal protein is bad!
I didn't even get to the China Project itself.I like to think I'm open to new ideas, but those ideas really need to be backed up with something a bit more substantial.
I totally buy that a whole foods diet, especially one rich in vegetables, is best.
The other parts are all quibble-worthy, and I'm constantly learning new things and changing perceptions of things I had taken for granted.
I won't reiterate them, I'll just add my own thoughts.Dr. Campbell doesn't recommend fanatical adherence to a vegan lifestyle.
While he does suggest that it's easier to eat 0% animal protein than it is to eat 5%, he also suggests relaxing about incidental animal products that may be found hiding in food (meat soup stocks and egg in baked goods, e.g.).
Others have mentioned that he makes the leap from very low animal protein to zero, and I agree this is a valid criticism.
I'd love to see a prospective study of vegans; what a coup that would be.He does not discuss fish, yea or nay.
This book provoked me to read more and more about it, and after all the reading I've done on the benefits of a plant based diet, my shopping list to the grocery store is forever changed.I've always tried to eat from a spiritual point of view, I figure we are only supposed to eat the things that the Earth provides for us, and I included animals in the picture, but only sparingly.
I personally had no idea that you get much more, and much better protein from plants.I am so grateful for this book, although as I was reading it, I knew my life was changing.
Basically they state that poor, rural Chinese people have low levels of cancer and heart disease [no surprise there for a pre-industrialization population], then make this huge logic leap that the explanation is low animal protein intake.
Uh, this is a diet study!-They use (the bizarrely obtained) blood tests as surrogates for dietary intake, assuming that they can tell from a blood sample what a village's intake of various nutrients was.
Hands down my favorite non-fiction book. This book will change your life, if you let it. Please, please consider reading it!
I liked the research aspect of this, but it was peppered with so many of my pet peeves, the eye rolling was getting out of hand.The bad: While I can appreciate his own work in the research field, I had a hard time with all of the finger pointing and nay saying.
This felt like a whistle blowing book, but I have to wonder, if his intended audience (meaning the general public) is really the right target for that kind of thing.
It reminded me of another book I've read recently on this same thing and they also used scare tactics.
I can give this 3 stars for the overall message of eating whole foods.
Wow. We have changed a lot of things in our diet because of this book.
Not only do meat and milk have a lot of calories but they are loaded with cholesterol and cancer feeding properties.
When I started cutting meat and dairy from my diet four months ago it was to lose weight but I didn't think much about how it would help my heart, circulatory system, mind, eyes, etc.
I don't mean to offend anyone who eats the high fat, high meat and dairy diet most Americans eat but there it is.
A gritty scientific approach to the relationship between diet and disease.
Scientific citations abound.
It combines his work with the work of many others from fields looking at cancer, cardiovascular, etc.
diseases and their correlations to various foods.
This book is oft-cited by other books of the same genre.
It is for the person who wants to see the nitty-gritty details for themselves.
Having said that, it is not nearly as dry as a text book, but definitely puts forth more data for the reader versus hiding it in the bibliography.
Reading it will change your view on what you eat forever.
This book changed my life, literally. The writing is a bit scholarly at times, but worth working your way through for the information.Previous reviews give enough info, so I won't duplicate.I strongly suggest Eat to Live by Joel Fuhrman, M.D. as the ideal companion to The China Study. Fuhrman clears up anything that might have been confusing in The China Study, and explains the best way to choose your foods for nutrient density.
Basically correlates increased animal protein consumption (which in itself is correlated to how "advanced" countries are) to increases in the Western diseases (cancer, heart disease, etc).
This is hard to believe for several reasons- there is no discussion about processed foods, which are also a staple of Western diets but not developing nations- even though people in developing nations may not be suffering from Western diseases, they are by no means healthy.
Yet many primitive and developing cultures eat such animal proteins without adverse effects.- the author essentially claims that all diseases (hear, obesity, diabetes, cancer, autoimmune, etc) can be cured by cutting meat out of the diet.
I would not have thought one book could completely change my idea of what is a healthy diet, but this one did.
I never stopped to think about it, but all the diseases that developed countries get that undeveloped countries don't are pretty much due to the differences in our diets.
There's massive evidence that all of these diseases plus obesity can be prevented and reversed by eating a whole foods plant based diet.
But if you aren't convinced, read it and see.I've changed my diet over to one that's entirely plant based, and already I feel much better.
I highly recommend this book and this diet.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
After reading this book I know that I will no longer have any problems with weight.
Also, I found a greater motivation to eat healthy besides losing weight, and that is to prevent disease.
The correlations between food and heart disease, obesity, diabetes, autoimmune diseases and cancer are astounding.
As Campbell said the solutions to many diseases is "at the end of our forks." I eat now to do my part in preventing these diseases for me and my family.
It was truly a life changing book for me.
I hope others appreciate his life work as well.
This is a very important book for our health, and it has prompted myself and my family to make some changes that I'm sure will lead to better health and well being for us all.
Everyone should read this!ONE WEEK LATER FOLLOW UP: After being on an animal protein-free, whole food diet for almost 2 weeks, I called my hubby at work this morning and he told me he was having a good day, feeling optimistic.
This is a man who hates his job and struggles to find a single thing to look forward to while he's at work.
Eating healthy and feeling healthy is making him HAPPY!
This is a leading book on overall nutrition, however, it isn't boring or written like a scientific study. It covers nutrition, long term health, disease prevention, the media and nutrition, and political involvment in nutrition and the nutritional beliefs in this country. It was written by a man who grew up in Pennsylvania on a dairy farm who is now a scientist and advocates a vegan life style. It is not, however, preachy, and even meat lovers will gain some good information related to thier diet and long term health.
