https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96278.Sheepfarmer_s_Daughter
We can see from a couple of small events that Paks is bound for Greater Things, but because Paks doesn't want to think about it, the narration doesn't.The plot is decent, although troubled at times by the narrative jump of "three months ago..." or "six months later..." A long section at the beginning deals with investigating an assault involving Paks, and I found it both an odd narrative choice for the beginning of a story and a relief to be spared the actual scene.
Try as I might, I just couldn't make myself like it.It was just so boring.
Half of the time I didn't even realize a fight had started until it was halfway over.And Paks..
All around blah.After a while, it was impossible not to imagine the whole book being read to me in a really boring monotone.
Suffice it to say, I guess I'm just not a fan of Paks or her deeds.
I have no interest in trying the next book in the series, or reading about Paks ever again.
So Paks..
I have read and reviewed the text version of this book.
While not the best reader I've ever heard in an audio book Jennifer Van Dyck does a fine job on the book and only in a couple of places does she miss a cue or fail to carry over the emotion that I believe Ms. Moon wanted.Let me say again that I love these books and can't recommend them highly enough.
(Elves, dwarves, orcs and other such species exist, but outside of old songs and stories, Paks only hears rare references to them, or gets rarer glimpses of one; magical healing of wounds is possible, but under limitations that make it pretty rare, and certain individuals and objects associated with various religions have supernatural powers, but these usually don't materially effect the story and aren't often in view.) Realistically as well, Moon is willing to suddenly kill off characters, including characters you'll have come to like and care about --exactly the way that real-life humans may die suddenly in combat situations, whether everybody likes and cares about them or not.
I WOULD, but given the defects of Paks's characterization already outlined, her asexuality starts to seem more like a result of her complete lack of depth of emotion than any kind of statement or subversion.
And, really, based on the blatant foreshadowing in this book about Paks becoming a paladin, if I were to read the sequels (which I have no intention of doing), I worry that I would eventually begin to feel that it was actually in the service of some ridiculous Virginal (and thus ~*~pure~*~) Instrument of the Divine trope.In conclusion: snooooore.
I'm going to write a bit about the book's realism, the main character and its language, and try to explain why I liked it.The strength of this novel lies in its realism.
So there's really not that much to her, unless you look a little deeper and think about how her ideals and the world she lives in clashes, and notice little comments from her friends and fellow soldiers.The most distinct parts of Paks' personality is her morale, her loyalty, and maybe also her feminism.
3.5 starsI really wanted to like this tale more than I actually did.
I read this book while on holiday and it always seemed that I was interrupted right in mid-battle, left wondering for many hours how things would turn out!
That said, the battles were certainly not gritty like those described by Glen Cook in his Dark Company series.
And although Paks is injured several times and has bad things happen to her, she leads the charmed life of the fantasy heroine.
This supernatural stirring in her life puts me in mind of Joan of Arc….Book 241 of my Science Fiction & Fantasy reading project.
From these details comes the first problem: nothing at all happens in the first half of the book, just the military training in more details than I ever cared about, like how to march with a spear.
The book is written from the main character's point of view (BTW, I challenge everybody to recall her full name: was it really necessary to make it this long and complicated?).
One more problem: one - and just one - chapter of the book is written from point of view of a different person.
This one is old school military fantasy: we open with a young adult dreaming of a career as a soldier, signing up in a mercenary squad, and what follows is a lot of drilling, marching, sieging and fighting.
We open with her father telling the tale, and along the way a lot of information is sown inside book 1, so it can bloom in the next books (I hope).
This is clearly the entry point of a trilogy, not a book that can stand on its own.Apart from a little too much information on fighting and training, the element I missed the most was a cast of important characters.
I love Elizabeth Moon's chill style writing.
It's all wonderful and detailed.
Her heroine never does anything idiotic.
But, that's not to say she doesn't find herself in 'situations'.
She is sweet, but not a walk over.
She is tough, but not Kate Daniels.
Honest and humble, she should be boring.
But she really isn't.
Sheepfarmer's Daughter tells the story of a girl who ditches home to join the army after her father tries to marry her off to a pig farmer.
But really, it's all about the storytelling, and I happen to think Ms. Moon's storytelling is wonderful.
5 stars - English hardcover - I have dyslexia - Read this book while on holidays in England. It was raining cats and dogs, so a great escape for me to find another heroïne going her own course. 😀🍀😀🍀
This book (the first in a trilogy, which is also collected in an omnibus) is interesting to me primarily for its description of the main character's military training.
The main character, Paksenarrion (Paks), never really connects emotionally with anyone else.
Mostly they seem to be gregarious people who adopt her without much encouragement from Paks herself, and then rapidly get themselves killed off so that the relationships don't have to develop very far.
Also, I didn't care for the role Paks' faith played in these books.
First half low to mid three stars.Second half mid to high three stars.I liked it.
None of the characters really came to life for me.I did like that this book's heroine was a strong young woman who knew her own mind.
Or she would be a shy wallflower who enlisted to escape a villainous family and slowly fall in love with the boy who bullies her from day one....I really liked the action once the second half kicked in.
I liked the honest portrayal of battle.
Often times it's senseless.
And many times it is a matter of luck and chance.
The series tells the story of Paksenarrion Dorthansdottir, or Paks for short, who runs away from her humble home to join Duke Phelan's army as a way of avoiding a marriage being forced on her by her father.
And then there’s her unquestioning loyalty to the Duke, her employer, even when she discovers that his soldiers are not quite the heroic idealists she aspired to but something much more pragmatic, being simple mercenaries.I very much liked the way the world is revealed slowly, in small increments, with names and places and even religions tossed into conversations without explanation.
The first half of the book I would give it five stars with a girl in the army like the author herself with her background in Vietnam, but the second half was too predictable for me to enjoy it. My problem is the second half of the book, it was too cliche as everyone else is in trouble, and the main character somehow always avoid trouble, so that main character has to save everyone even if he or she does not have the ability, but the main character usually has the ability to.
4.5 stars. An excellent beginning to what looks to be a superb epic fantasy series. Elizabeth Moon writes a great story with well-drawn, interesting characters and a tightly focused plot that grabs you from the beginning of the novel and never stalls. That is tough to do in a 500+ page book, but I was engaged the entire time. Highly recommended!!!Winner: Compton Crook Award.
First of a series of awesome books. I think this is my 4th or 5th re-read. The series is just that good.
Near the end of the book, which is told from Paks's POV, there's a chapter thrown in from the viewpoint of another character — not even a character Paks has had much interaction with, but the son of a commander who's a friend of *her* commander.
In the end, the torturee doesn't even make a comment about how the captured bad guy should die, although he is included (verbally) in the scene.The book *ends* with plenty of pointers to "something uncommon" about Paks, but she is determined to continue her Life as a Soldier in spite of the presence of the exciting (and magical, woohoo!) Marshal and/or paladin.
There were times when I didn’t care for the over-eager wide-eyed country girl voice that she used for Paks (couldn’t a few of those Yes, Sirs been a little less enthusiastic?), but it’s hard to tell if that was her interpretation or the author’s intent.
Overall, Ms. Van Dyck is a reader I’ll be watching for in the future, and Paksenarrion, the sheepfarmer’s daughter, is a heroine whose story I’m looking forward to hearing.
I read these books years ago, have read them several times, and will in all probability reread them again and again.This is one of those series (I think of them as a single book) where when I run on someone who doesn't like them or doesn't get them I am as the saying goes...
I give them 5+ stars and as I've said before can't recommend them highly enough.I have recently reread these and am almost impelled to come here, update this to say, don't miss this one.
Don't miss the book.
Sheepfarmer's Daughter is essentially five hundred pages of Paks going through the motions of becoming a mercenary and finding out how to be a good soldier, a lot of which is no more interesting that my average day at the office.
She does what she is told, never seriously questions what she is doing and turns out to be good at pretty much everything she is required to do.
In short, neither Paks, or the events described in the novel really managed captivate me.
It is readable but I wouldn't go as far as calling it good.
I understand that Sheepfarmer's Daughter was Moon's first published novel.
A re-read.
This is the first book of a trilogy.
An epic story of Paksenarrion (Paks), who runs away from her family to escape an arranged marriage to a pig farmer.
She joins mercenary army and becomes a hero many times over.I have the same problem I had the first time reading it - Her mercenary company travels throughout the book and for the life of me I could never picture in my head where they were.
At least mark her home town.Good book though.
Eventually I'll read the second book, if I remember correctly was my favorite.
The first book in the Deed of Paksenarrion series (One noun, five sylables, instant red alert).I have to preface this by saying that I found Lord of the Ring's unbearably tedious, and that every time I read -or try to- 80's fantasy (Wheel of Time in particular) I am struck by a profound sadness that Tolkien's ludicrous Middle-England populated by gay midgets, gay elves and gay...
It may even be good because of all the nonsense.The novel has been carved from archetype and Dungeons & Dragons source books but because it knows this and plays it so unflinchingly straight -also likely because this is revealed piecemeal alongside a really compelling narrative- I found myself willingly led along.
Overall I really enjoyed this book.
I wish there hadn't been a weird rapey setup scene right at the beginning, it seemed really out of place with the rest of the novel.
I hated that part but enjoyed everything else.There were little glimpses of humanity that made me thankful to read a book about war written by a woman.
A quick example is when Paks is waiting outside a city to attack.
It tells us so much about the setting and about Paks in that simple action.A lot of characters die but it didn't feel like Game of Thrones, it just felt like war.So curious to discover where her character goes!
3.5 Stars, Great start for a series, I did find the story a little slow at times and sometimes it was slow to progress the main plot, but the characters are likable and the story is entertaining. On the whole, it is pretty good and I will continue with the series.
There are a few scenes where magic played an important role (view spoiler)[like the Honey Cat's capture or Paks' mysterious pendant (hide spoiler)], but you don't find out how magic system(s) work, not because it can't be explained, but because the main character doesn't know herself.Another thing that kept me from getting into this story was the characters and how interchangeable they were.
Paks, as a main character, as a lowly soldier in the ranks, doesn't know much of anything, let alone important things, like magic.
This is an off-the-shelf AD&D adventure, with the names (barely) filed off.
If you like that sort of thing, it's a decent story and Elizabeth Moon's writing is better than average.
There's only a little bit of magic, but it's obvious Paksenarrion is destined to become a paladin.
Although I'm slightly curious to see how she progresses, it's kind of the same curiosity that makes you want to keep playing an RPG with a character who's just numbers on paper to you -- it would be nice to see her level up and acquire some new abilities, but there's no real emotional investment in it.
This was a bit too objective of a narrative... A bit too impersonal and reeds like a military campaign diary. Not bad, but not as good as I expected. Will read the next book and see how it goes
Didn't finish this one.
There's one chapter end where the next our beloved Paks wakes in a cell worrying about what's about to happen to her next, and you learn the previous night through back story - it makes you worry for her all the more as you piece it together, and learn with the reaction of others just how good her chances are.The Duke in this is both remote and yet utterly human.
