https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395871.The_Awakening_The_Struggle
2 stars – Vampire Romance/Young AdultAlthough the Vampire Diaries precedes Meyer’s Twilight Saga, it’s impossible not to compare the two series, and I have to say that I much prefer Twilight.
They’re all so selfish, juvenile, and petty, and okay, I get that it’s a young adult series, but it felt really immature and teen angsty to me, waaay more so than Twilight.
I will however check out the Vampire Diaries TV series on the CW, which seems like a perfect home for the teenie vampire drama.
But that's about it.So I've read the first one "The Awakening and The Struggle" and I have to say that I was kind of disappointed.Elena is an uptight snobby girl who gets what ever she wants and when she doesn't she pouts like a 2 year old out to get revenge and sneak in her mothers pantry to steal chocolate!Her character does improve through out the book, but she was very hard to relate to while reading.Stefan spends half the book ignoring her ( yes, for a good reason, but still) then when he does finally talk to her...BANG!
There are a few complications, though: one, Stefan is a vampire from the Italian renaissance period; two, she looks a lot like Katherine, the girl he was in love with who made him a vampire before killing herself, thinking he and his brother Damon, whom she also converted, would then stop fighting over her; and three, Damon is also in the city, and he has his sights set on Elena.These teen vampire books have been out for more than a decade, but have only recently been merged into two single volumes, rather than the original four.It's a familiar-enough story, a little similar to Stephenie Meyer's Twilight books but not (note that it was published in 1991, more than 10 years before Twilight - still, comparisons crop up, though if anything, this could have been inspiration for Meyer).
I'm DNF'n this book at 30% and I hate not finishing a book but I just can't bring myself to read anymore of it!Not only is Elena a horrible self-centred bitch after one night of kissing Stefan the next morning she's Florence nightingale! I can't stand her not even a little argh!!!!!!!! Love someone you don't even know?! GET A GRIP CRINGE!
Back in the early '90s, when I was an adolescent (oh how I date myself), I read and reread these books.
In short, each book is like reading a 250 super model photo shoot.
Perhaps that is part of the allure for many kids who read these, but I distinctly remember talking with my friends about which character in the book we'd want to be...and frankly, all are either shallow or wracked with glamorized self-loathing.The remaining question is why on earth after all this criticism did I give the books 4 stars.
I either read an interview or saw one with Stephenie Meyer who remarked that she got her plot to Twilight from a dream that she once had.
Look no further for her source material, here it is.Just a few of the parallels that I noticed: Stefan (Edward) can read minds.
Stefan and Elena fall splendidly and exquisitely in love with each other despite the fact that there's little narrative to their love story.
Stefan wants to stay away from Elena because he's a killer, and so on, ad nauseum.
as Kat would say UNPOPULAR OPINION TIME....I hated all four of these books.....
and I hate her, she gets everything she ever wants!
I HATE her!!And I love L.J. Smith, guys....
and her Dark Visions has one of my favourite love interests of all time.....
So hating these bothered me, A LOT, and not just because I love the show!!
he is everything I would want a teenage girl to love!!
And that makes me sad :(Dear Ms. Smith, if you wanted to make me love Elena and Stefan .....
And of course, when two half a century old vampires arrived in town, she was the love of their life at first sight, they wanted to spend their eternity with her and only with her, no other woman had ever mattered *snorts*But the story did get better - once the author stopped concentrating on the Homecoming Queen's dating plan and remembered that she wasn't writing an after-school special but a romantic horror story.
I suspect that the next two books in the tetralogy will be better.And yes, this is the series that the CW's adapting for TV.
It's another teen vampire/romance novel. Yay!Actually, it's kind of cheesy. When Stefan Salvatore shows up at Elena's high school, it's love at first sight. He's gorgeous and exotic, and she's looking for someone new. She's fair-haired and popular and closely resembles his ex. Oh, there's one more thing: Stefan's a vampire. From renaissance Italy. And another thing: his older brother, Damon, has also shown up. And they're battling for Elena's affections.So corny, but so fun to read. The ending was a cliffhanger, so I guess I might just have to pick up the next book in the series.3/10/08
Her settings felt 2 dimensional to me and I often couldn't get a grasp of what exactly the characters were really like as people, sure.
Once I ignored the flaws in Smiths construction of her Sunnydale-esq town with it's Vampire drama lurking in the shadows of a popularity battle between 2 high school girls, I became addicted.
I just couldn't wait to see what was going to happen next.Vampire Diaries reads like a CW teen drama.
Which made me wonder why this hasn't already been adapted to film or TV yet.Forget that other, hallow, vapid vampire series- This is the Girl-meets-Vampire story to read.
She also never tells her friends anything so half the time they have no true reason for being there, other than to prove Elena is popular.Stefan is handsome, brooding and your typical tortured vampire.
The only things I thought really seemed to age the books were the fact that the girls made a blood pact (I remember adults always telling us never to do that but does anyone even do that anymore?) and that they're all impressed with Stefan's leather jacket.Maybe if I had read these as a young teen, I would have enjoyed them.
Onward.I actually saved the book for three weeks after finishing it just so I could include some hilariously bad quotes in review.
I can cope with drab description, but why lay the angst on so thick the reader has to close the book because they're spasming with laughter?
Spasming with laughter until they CAN REACT NO LONGER.
It only MAKES THEM HATE THEMSELVES MORE for reading this effing book!"'Stefan, I had to come--' she began, and broke off short, because a flash of lightning lit the sky just as the figure in the corner whirled around.
"Vampire Diaries" are the earlier books written by L.J. Smith and, unfortunately, it shows.
I enjoyed her later trilogies "Dark Visions" and "The Forbidden Games" very much and therefore had very high hopes for "Vampire Diaries." To my disappointment, the writing is just not as good as I came to expect from L.J. Smith.
Human-vampire romance set in high school, blood lust, angst, "vegetarian" vampires - all was first written by L.J. Smith.I will continue on reading this series and hope the books are going to get better.
i don't think there's any way of getting around the fact that i really, really didn't like this book AT ALL. which sucks because i spent quite a bit of money on it, thinking it'd be a great read and fun to read before i dove into the first season of the t.v. show.alas, it irked me so much i didn't even get past the first part. boooo.love the cover though. paul wesley + ian somerhalder = HELL. YES.also: i love the tv series. i should probably have stuck to that instead.
Actual Rating: 3.5 (for both!) I don't know why this took me a month to read, it didn't feel that long, I guess it was because of classes...but I really enjoyed these 2 books!
(I also really want to find out more about Katherine, so I hope we get that too because I'm a sucker for the flashback scenes!) I also can't believe I haven't picked these up sooner, just because I really like Smith's writing style (though I know the later books aren't written by her :')).
Because this was a first time read for one of my favourite authors I actually sticky noted the entire book with my opinions and predictions.
I didn't care about either Elena or Stefan.
But the TV show is a thousand times better than the book.I didn't like the self centered Elena or understand why anyone else would either.
When she met Stefan I couldn't understand the obsession she had over him, and why she was so hurt that he didn't talk to her.
I didn't feel like they cared for each other.
At about page 222, when Stefan started to tell his back story and explain things to Elena, I thought that the series would start getting good.
This book sucks so bad I tell yaWhy did I even botherThis is so not working for meJust stick to the TV series. It has way more bites ;)
I humbly admit that when I had first picked up this book, it was after all the Twilight/Vampire buzz - though personally Harry Potter trumps vampire - I had it in my mind that it was going to be just like Twilight a sappy romance that I adore.
Will she uncover Stephen's secret before it's too late for her to come back from it or will she dive head first into uncharted and dangerous waters to follow her heart?This book just might have been one of the best books I have read in a long time.
Then bask in the good vibes you feel being sent down from lumber heaven by the tree who so gallantly gave its life to become such a crap book
(Ermine optional, but highly recommended);(5) Forget everything I told you about how bad the book version of The Vampire Diaries is and go watch every episode of the television series.
Not only is the T.V. version a better story, it has 100% more Boone (if you get this reference, request my friendship IMMEDIATELY) 
Elena is the (blond and, of course, beautiful) Queen of the School who just spent her summer in France with her aunt and her little sister because he parents are dead.
BUT then a gorgeous, brooding stranger (Stefan) shows up at school and shows no interest in Elena at all.
Of course, he's actually ignoring her because he's in love with her and wants to protect her from his evil vampire-ness.
Throw in a few random dead people, a jock with a grudge, and, oh yeah, Stefan's evil, uber-powerful vampire brother and you have the first two books in this surprisingly popular series.
I wanted to read this series before the show started this fall..
as the books are normally better than the shows/movies, but I have to say that I was highly disappointed.
story was very flat, the main character Elana got on my nerves, and there were a few parts where I had to re-read something more than once because it just didn't make any sense.
I don't have any desire to read any further, but I will probably still try watching the show however I probably won't like that either.
His darker side definitely was more prominent.Damon was pretty much evil.
The Show is far, far better in my opinion than these two books.If I had been rating only "The Awakening", I probably would have given it a 2 star review.
There was so much story building and the character were no likeable at all.
Damon's character was still evil, but atleast it was entertaining.
Elena was more like the character from the show in it.
People who enjoy Twilight-esque books will probably be into this.
I will probably give the next book in line a try just to see if it improves.....But, for the most part I'm sticking to the show.
I loved this book!
I did like this though, I, of course had seen the entire show before picking this up, and I have to say that they are nothing alike.
I did like it, just, I don't even know.
I gave this four stars because, well, I like the characters, so I may be bias, I just don't know how I feel about the story in this book.
Anyways, I did like the book over all, of course I am going to pick up the continuation of the books (which I own), but I have more books to focus on.
One of the very few times that the book is not as good as the show. Two books in and I still feel like Elena is a flat character. Blah.
I originally read these as separate books but I now one this copy so I wanna add it to my GR books.
So I'm just gonna copy and paste my reviews into here.
Book 1: This was so much better than I expected it to be!
I read it in one sitting!
I love the TV show but, Stefan is so much cooler in this than in the show.
I wasn't a huge Stefan fan, but in the book he is just as awesomely romantic and smoldering as so many other YA vampires.
I originally read these as separate books but I now one this copy so I wanna add it to my GR books.
I wasn't a huge Stefan fan, but in the book he is just as awesomely romantic and smoldering as so many other YA vampires.
Ian Somerhalder sounds like a perfect description of Damon, except way older.
Although, I don't really get why Stefan would fall in love with her in the first place, the way she was in the beginning.
The romance between Stefan and Elena is awesome, and the added creepiness of Damon stalking her is perfect.
this books was written long before her "Twilight" (which i consider the most amazing book ever written.) and the plot has an unmistakable resemblance, i have a strong feeling this is one of the books that inspired her book.
But they both have unique ways of pulling you in and bringing you into the horror and romance of the character and it is amazing how much i can love a book and compare it to Twilight.
I definitely recommend this book to anyone who enjoyed anything from Twilight to Cirque Du Freak.
It's even more pathetic to say that I liked Matt Honeycutt the most, even him being the small secondary character, he had a lot more character than our main protagonists.The relationship with Stefan and Elena was purely based on looks and appearances, popularity and selfishness.
Elena, the blond, plastic, bitchy cheerleader had, after only a few encounters with Stefan, found herself "head over heels in love" with our brooding, intelligent, TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE vampire hottie, who was feeling the same, likewise.
With other orphaned characters, I felt sorry and I wanted good for them; in Vampire Diaries, I wanted Elena to fall.
Elena Gilbert is the golden girl who has fallen head over heels in love with Stefan, the only guy she wants. Stefan Salvatore, the guy with a past, will do anything to protect Elena, even if it means avoiding her. Damen Salvatore, the one who will do anything to possess Elena and take revenge against Stefan.Well, I know this is bad to say but when reading the back, it sounded more exciting than it actually was. I thought that I would enjoy this book so much because of all the hype the TV show w
Elena Gilbert is the golden girl who has fallen head over heels in love with Stefan, the only guy she wants.
Damen Salvatore, the one who will do anything to possess Elena and take revenge against Stefan.Well, I know this is bad to say but when reading the back, it sounded more exciting than it actually was.
I would have liked to read about their attraction growing over time and a little bit more personality from him at least.
The only characters I really enjoyed while reading were Damen and Caroline.
I only read the first book.I picked it up after watching the 1st chapter on TV, i told myself: "WOW it looks good.
why watch it on TV if i can read the books?!?!".Well, sometimes looks can B deceiving.This book was bad.
bad and flat.the plot was predictable, and almost non existing.Elena was annoying and full of herself, Stephan was a wimp.The only light at the end of this tunnel was the evil Brother.
Is it wrong for me to want him to win the girl and kill the good boy?!I think I'll stick to the TV show with this one.Or maybe I'll abandon it all together.Only time will tell.
I fell in love with Damon's character and the suspense of not knowing who Elena would end up with was almost painful.
The show did an amazing job with the plots, the characters, the love triangle...
It made me feel things that I've never felt for fictional characters before (as crazy as that sounds)But, the book, was disappointing.
Elena was a vein blonde bitch that didn't deserve the Salvatore's or any of her friends (not to mention some of the characters in the show don't even exist in the book) and everything is all about Elena getting what she wants and doing whatever manipulative thing she has to do in order to get it.THE WORST PART: Damon.
