https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2419417.Cat_Country_
I read this because I'd vaguely heard it was one of the first Chinese fiction novels, but what I received was a searing mockery of life in China in the more chaotic years of the Republic.
Our protagonist crash lands on Mars, where he finds a land of cat people.
And as if to rub salt on the wound, he goes back to a more peaceful, prosperous, and free China, somewhere in the distant future.
The author did not consider himself a good satirist. I would disagree, this is satire at its best. It is a satire on China, but I would say that it can be applied to most societies. Set on Mars, it questions the customs of a cat society living there, while in fact examining human nature. More often focusing on dark aspects of human psychology then not, the novel describes a dystopian society. It is a fascinating read, if somewhat depressive.
If, therefore, you deicide to read this, you should take some time to look into Lao She, the Chinese Republican and Warlord period, as well as the subsequent rise of the Chinese Communist Party (after the publication of the book).
Along the way everything from Chinese fashions of the time, Chinese opium addiction and even the writing system are criticised.This being a translation of a modern Chinese novel written in the new style of adopting the vernacular in early 20th Century China, much will be lost in the translation.
Про высшее образование.…Когда новое образование еще только вводилось, в наших школах существовали разные классы, учеников оценивали по качеству знаний, но постепенно экзамены были упразднены (как символ отсталости), и ученик кончал школу, даже если не ходил в нее.
Это же факт, что у нас больше всего людей с высшим образованием, поэтому все удовлетворенно улыбались.
Большинству приходилось идти в учителя, потому что люди, получившие новое образование, неохотно становились ремесленниками или лоточниками.Про политику.– Какие-нибудь государства на Марсе уже осуществляют подобный строй?– Да, уже более двухсот лет.– А ваша страна?Маленький Скорпион задумался.
A DYSTOPIAN MASTERPIECE ABOUT CONSUMER'S SOCIETY SOAKING IN OPIOIDSOf course, we could today read this novel as a direct description of China in 1932, more or less predicting the invasion of the country by the Japanese, not yet the Communists really since the Long March has to go west and not east.
And a people, a country that has let itself fall in the arms of such a soft illusion, delusion, is ready to die and the book shows us the final destruction of this cat society by foreigners arriving from the west.
Excellently written. A story about a man stranded on Mars, inhabitated by Cat People. Befriended by a local cat-man, he learns all aspect of cat-life - Felinese culture, cat-poetry, etc. A satire at its best; that lampoons 1930s China. Lao She unfolds the brutality and violence of early Communist era via dystopian society.Really a worth reading!#catpeople #laoshe #china #satire #read4malaysia #book #novel #literature
This is terrible science fiction."The plot is almost nonexistant, but it is an excuse for a fantastic satire of the Chinese society of that period.
Between the reverie-leaf that makes us think of opium, the "everybody sharekyism" that ressembles marxism/communism/all other -ism, the blind immitation of foreign values, the continual revolts, corruption, Lao She discribes a very bleak society, a society loosing its values, loosing itself.I has to be noted that the book was written in 1932 and was also extremely visionary.
Besides describing the ills of his current society, Lao She predicts many events to come.
io9 says it's "often called the first Chinese work of science fiction". Cool!
None of those who were hindmost were willing to stay at the back, and would push, kick, crowd and even bite you in order to make their way in the world and become foremost.
Those who were already foremost, on the other hand, kicked back with their heels, poked back with their elbows and leaned back hard in order to keep the hindmost in their proper place" (p.75).--"Consequently, those who ought to have been killed were not; and those who ought to have been spared, on the contrary, lost their lives.
A fantastical fable; humorous but with the painful tinge of historical mirroring. Knowing a little about China at the beginning of Communism was enough for me to see the parody (or just direct comparison) of Cat Country to China. A few laugh out loud moments were quickly balanced by shock and sympathy when you realise that, although this story is set on Mars, the real story was real China and the madness that went on in the name of ideals.A really good read.
Lugu ise on üsna nõrk. Teisi arvustusi lugedes saan aru, et tegu on satiiri või irooniaga. Tundmata aga Hiina ajalugu (tõtt-öelda on ajalugu üldse üks minu nõrgemaid valdkondi) on keeruline samastuda või mõista. Eks muidugi oli võrdlemisi säravaid peatükke ja ideid. Mõni torge oli täiesti ajatu, kehtides sama hästi nii sajandeid tagasi kui ilmselt ka sajandite pärast tulevikus. Kokkuvõttes see mulle aga mingit erilist lugemiselamust ei pakkunud.
It's a bit of a slog at first, but it really gets going in the second half once everything was all set up. The entire last act was a bit of a punch in the gut. The final sentence may be one of the my favorite final sentences ever. It was so blunt that I cackled like a middle school kid who just witnessed a sick burn. It made me sad, made me laugh, and it surprised me. Can't ask for much more than that.
A disillusioning story.While rickshaw boy focused on the personal experience of the protagonist, this one clearly took a truly global view at the misery and decadence of a whole nation. And what a nation!Wondering how China overcame this.cf. Penguin island
This book is BLEAK AF, but an essential reading to understand modern China, but also interesting to debate revolution, ideology, morality. But it's depressing and doesn't have a good opinion of mankind.
Not so much science fiction than a deeply troubling and savage account of certain periods of Chinese history, and a very good swipe at our 'modern' civilisation today.
Really enjoyed this! Strong satire
Story: 2.5 / 10Characters: 4Setting: 6Prose: 3.5Themes: Communism, Politics, Civilizations, Culture, Customs
Kind of a Chinese Animal Farm.
Despite this, and the occasional lyricism and beauty in detail, the framing device of the crash and rescue barely holds together this critique, and there is little development of the narrator's character, whose lack of past creates an anonymity that only serves to alienate the reader.
For all its scathing quality and the occasional excitement in misadventure, the novel attacks those who might understand its cultural context best, and fails to convey to those from a greater remove the import of his insight on the fate of a post colonial pre-Maoist China.
A glimpse into the political situation in China in the 1930s through the eyes of a pessimist: Lao She despises both the bureaucratic state and the hapless revolutionaries because he sees both groups as self-serving and idiotic.
There are some poetic moments ("My brain was a murkey ox rolling in the mud"), and I'm sure there are many more in the original Mandarin.Finally, on gender: the book is hopelessly dated in this regard, with Lao She's depiction of women/femininity as frivolous, pitiful, and spineless.
Best known for his vernacular drama and novels, Lao She brought the local dialect of Beijing to a wider, national audience during the Chinese Republican Era yet Cat Country is a marked change from his standard plays.
It is in Lao She's scathing indictments of the Felinese education system, their addiction to reverie leaves, their literally-bankrupt culture, the reader looks back to China in the Republican Era, during which society and the nation underwent many changes.
The book involves a young man going to Mars and discovering the "cat country" which then proceeds to mock all the things that he dislikes about Chinese culture.
In the English translation the translator is key to point out the problems of traditional Chinese culture that is being alluded to.
However, as the book blames more and more of the countries problems on the modernisation movement, Western Cultural imperialism (and outright imperialism) the comments quickly dry up.
The biggest problem with the satire is that it takes things to ridiculous extremes.
McNally Jackson rarely steers me wrong w/ their staff picks, but this book was a real struggle.
The plot is ostensibly about a Chinese stargoer who crash lands his ship on Mars and falls in with a race of cat people whose once great society is on the verge of collapse.That sounds like a pretty entertaining premise to me, but what Lao She was really writing here was a satire of modern (in 1932) Chinese society.
Cat country by Lao She is a dystopian science fiction novel based around the fall of a civilization.
When a astronaut crash lands on mars, he finds himself in a civilization made entirely out of cat people.
He learns about their language, habits, and culture however he soon discovers that he is observing the fall of the civilization.
This book actually doesn’t have much science fiction elements outside of talking cats and mars, I would recommend this book to people who like reading about society or people who likes cats.
This would be a good book to read over a vacation or a weekend.
Seeing as how this was published the same year as Brave New World, about a dystopian civilization of Cat People on Mars, written by one of the most revered Chinese writers of last century, I naturally thought this book would be wonderful.
Lao She was known for his humor and wit, which this book largely lacks, and he was just too disgusted with his country at this point to write the kind of book he could have.
I'll seek out Rickshaw Boy instead.There were some brilliant moments, but the second half is especially bogged down by a bunch of tiresome tirades.
Sure, the Mars/Cat-People backdrop is just a flimsy veil for Lao She to shit all over China (this is not a terribly subtle or artful book), but a lot of his concerns and critiques are so tonally perfect (oh my god, the descriptions of urban foot traffic) that all the sci-fi abstraction helps preserve the novel from becoming dated.
More than a few times did I share a passage with a student or colleague only to have them turn to me and go, "That is exactly what it's like living here." Considering that this book is over 80 years old, that's pretty impressive.
gonna get sum more lao she
Imagine a world where you graduate the day you enter school, where it is normal for students to kill their teachers and principals, where the army runs away from the enemy, where revolution is not motivated by a desire for change but a desire to imitate, where museums are empty of all artifacts, where government officials respond to military threats by losing themselves in prostitutes. This is the Martian world that Lao She creates in this short satire novel, painting an apocalyptic vision of society.
This is an incredible book, unbelievably written before the Communist Party in China had come to power. Unbelievable because of how much it presages what was to come. Although it is primarily an allegory about China and its difficulties, it's also a tale of a stranger in a strange land. The insights She has about foreigners and how they're perceived still ring true.
Still applicable to China today, as well as many other countries. Like any good satire you can pick and choose quotes and passages that ring true today, even though the book was written in the 1930s.
Penguin Modern Classics has recently published an English version of this book. If you are familiar with Chinese history around the fall of the Qing Dynasty, you might be interested in this satire by one of China's great modern authors. If you aren't familiar with this time period, don't bother.
