https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30676.The_Act_of_Creation
Startlingly lucid account of our most wondrous and irrational faculty: creativity. In the space of a few chapters, Koestler throws light on the question of humor: what makes a joke funny? And why do we, unlike every other animal, laugh? But this conception, while the most illuminating view of humor I've read, is only the start of a much grander theory of our most profoundly human activities. He finds the unifying thread of the three great creative acts of mankind: Humor, Art, and Scientific Inventiveness. One of those books that changes your understanding of consciousness forever.
Here is one of my most treasured books. Without fail, I take it off the shelf and plunge right in to its insigntful observations and gentle humor. A valuable resource for the mind of an artist.
He loads his writing with fascinating examples and illustrating facts that keep you engaged throughout.
I often go back to reading this book in my free time, or between other books.
It would also be of interest to people who study the history of ideas.
The book is the second book in the unofficial trilogy of Koestler's works, beginning with The Sleepwalkers and ending with Ghost in the Machine.
The each book explains the same material, with the first taking a broader scope, and the second working "from the ground up" to explain the same ideas in much more technical language.
It is an amazing book no doubt, the reason it took me so long (besides work) is that it is so dense at times, that 10 or 20 pages suffices for a few days to ponder on.
I am especially grateful for the explanation of the idea of the bisocation of matrices which lead to discoveries and mind expanding works of art.
I highly recommend it for anyone interested in the mind of man and what man does when he "discovers" or "creates" works of art whether in science, poetry, painting, medicine, mathematics, or other fields.
Read this book in college and found it one of the most inspiring books regarding creativity and the connections to our world. Changed my life.
Can I give this a 5+ stars?Fantastic book - comparison of art, science and humor and how they require similar creative processes, i.e. an orthogonal leap using combination of things that were already known. It puts scientists in their "proper" place, IMO, i.e. away from the "hard and stodgy rational,", and with the creative. Most scientists appreciate art and music - the reputation is unwarranted. Perhaps it comes from people we think are boring - i.e. those who start conversations by talking about the weather.
This is one of the finest books I have ever read. The act of creation is the bisociation of previously independent matrices of thought. Koestler is one of those amazing polymaths who ranges across the sciences, the arts, the humanities, the history of all of these things, and has got an awful lot of things figured out. It's not a breezy read, but it's astonishing and worth your time.
The Act of Creation begins where this view ceases to be true.
Koestler affirms that all creatures have the capacity for creative activity, frequently suppressed by the automatic routines of thought and behavior that dominate their lives.
The study of psychology has offered little in the way of an explanation of the creative process, and Koestler suggest that we are at our most creative when rational thought is suspended - for example in dreams and trance-like states.
The general reader as well as the reader with a deeper knowledge of the topics covered will find this richly documented study of creativity both illuminating and compelling.
A scientific analysis of the creative process. Koestler argues that the scientific discovery, the work of art, and the joke are all instances of creativity, and that the common element in each is “bisociation,” a term referring to the mental process in which two unlike things are put together. Lots of examples and clear descriptions of the ideas with which Koestler works. Entertaining, informative and accessible.
via Alan Kay at OOPSLA 1997 - The computer revolution hasnt happened yet (cca. od 17. minúty)
What they conceal is vital.’In 1960, an anecdote in the form of an imaginary dialogue circulated in the satellite countries of the East:Tell me, Comrade, what is capitalism?The exploitation of man by man.And what is Communism?The reverse.it has the same power of sudden illumination as an epigram by Voltaire.(An epigram is a brief, interesting, memorable, and sometimes surprising or satirical statement)The less suggestive and the more implicit the joke, the more will the consumer’s reactions approximate the producer’s -- whose mental effort he is compelled to re-create.Si Natura negat, facit indignatio versum - JuvenalIf Nature says no, anger was turnedThough nature say me nay, indignation will prompt my verseThe emotions in question are those of the self-assertive, aggressive-defensive type, which are based on the sympathico-adrenal system and tend to beget bodily activity.

Tanto più le parti sono familiari, tanto più il nuovo tutto sarà sorprendente.» (pp.109-110)Questa è l'idea chiave del libro, esemplificata da uno schema che mette in relazione tre figure apparentemente distanti, il comico, lo scienziato e l'artista, dimostrando che ciò che li unisce è esattamente la creatività, intesa come interazione fra matrici di percezione e sistemi di riferimento e ragionamento diversi.
Nel caso del comico, vi è una collisione che conduce al riso; nel caso dello scienziato una fusione che porta a una scoperta; nel caso dell'artista un confronto (metaforico) che porta all'opera d'arte.
I was told about this book and its help in the creative writing process, so of course I went and got it.
The problem is the format--I can't stand it.It feels like some major technical work, some thesis about writing and the mechanics as if regurgitated at a lecture.
I've read and have dozens of other books on writing and all the things I could hope for.
I've read some snippets of Koestler's works before, and some quotes I like from him, but I really can't stand this huge volume I slogged through for over a month and barely got 100 pages in.I just couldn't get invested.
I always find writers who manage to combine the arts and the sciences into a larger unit more attractive than those who overstress the boundary, at least those who do so habitually (which is often the case with humanities scholars).
"If one goes on sowing cabbage seeds, one cannot expect them to grow into mimosas - but that hardly gives one a right to denounce belief in the existence of mimosas as a superstition; and if one puts a creature into a Skinner Box, it will behave as one expects a creature in a Skinner Box to behave- with certain quantitative variations which are gratifyingly measurable, but still refer to behaviour in a Skinner Box." The only bad taste that this book left in my mouth were the occasional psychoanalytical explanations of driving forces, which seem already a bit dated by today, though they were certainly taken for granted in the 1960s when Koestler wrote this book.
One of the things I greatly appreciate about Brazil and Brazilians is their great sense of humor, which I find to be very different from my home country.
why and how is different from one culture to another?
I was researching books about these questions but was not really successful in finding specific books or answers.
But I came across this great book that asks such intriguing questions such as "the logic of laughter", "varieties of humor", "imprinting and imitation".
Most importantly though, the book outlines how creative thinking is the common thread in humor, science and arts.
Be fore warned; there is a lot more in this book than just from the fine arts community.
The language used in the book is a bit dated but subject matter is gold for those interested in learning about what the creative process is and how it works.
I would recommend reading this book in a group setting.
Where you can discuss the ideas together because a lot of this material is subject to interpretation and it helps talking to some else and learning about how they interpreted the same material you read.
Book 1 is a lucid and well developed theory about the nature of creativity in the arts and science.Book 2 is a poorly conceived attempt to extend these ideas into biology and psychology.
The analogy is often strained and the science has not aged gracefully.
There is a long section dedicated to beating the dead horse of behavioralism, for instance.
Presumably, this is the reason the book has gone out of print.
There are useful insights, such as his anticipation of the concept of encapsulation, but AK would have been better advised to address these subjects in a separate book.
A fascinating and far reaching look at human creativity. In the first book, starting with humor and proceeding through science and art, Koestler looks at the history of human achievement. In book two, Koestler moves to the molecular scale and explains innovation and change at the genetic level. His knowledge of psychology, embryology, etc. allow him to make a connection between low-level organic processes and high-level creative thinking. All in all, a very interesting read.
It's been many years since I read this but he basically demonstrates how creativity is interwoven with discovery in introducing a new term for my vocabulary: bisociation. Bisociation is where two heretofore unrealated/unconnected phenomena/ideas are indeed really at a much deeper/grander level very much so.
Enjoyed this almost as much as TGITM, will definitely read again. Koestler likes to work with analogies a lot, sometimes stretching them too far, IE, the graphs linking humor and convergent realities, which were perhaps funnier than the run of the mill jokes he cites at whim.
Recommended by... George Carlin!Looks pretty heavy, but I'm really interested in brain function and the creative process. I'll drink coffee before starting :)
DNF, I'm sure there are better, newer books on the subject. It is one of the original works on the subject, but it is showing its age.
Great treatise on scientific and artistic creativity, and their overlaps. Amazingly, still very relevant today!
tuebl
rec'd by evan hanover
man, have had this dang thing forever, need to read it:-)
