https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13147230-the-long-earth
I suspect it’s impossible for two fine writers like Baxter and Pratchett to serve up anything wholly unpalatable, but the Long Earth feels long, although it is short, and is decidedly blah.
In science fiction the IDEA tends to overshadow the characters and even the story.
The idea explored is that Earth sits in one of an infinity of parallel universes and that these become opened up to humanity such that pretty much everyone can step through them like moving from one card to the next in a deck of cards.
By using a Stepper, a piece of technology that is powered by a potato (Pratchett at work no doubt), the user can travel along the spectrum of Earths and step foot on thousands of different versions of their home world.
Together they travel to the ends of the The Long Earth to see exactly how far it stretches and to see if it is, indeed, infinite as many scientists theorise.
The Idea behind The Long Earth is vastly imaginative and finding exactly what made it work kept me reading.
"The next world is the thickness of a thought away."This co-authored book (Terry Pratchett and Stephen Baxter) is a wonderful idea, lovingly executed.
Pratchett and Baxter create wild, imaginative worlds that are so similar and yet so amazingly different than the one we know that our minds are blown.
(hide spoiler)]Character development is not a high point in this novel.
Not as good as books like Annihilation, Nexus or vN, but definitely satisfying and stunning in its own way.R.I.P. Terry Pratchett.
The main thing that made me interested in reading this would be the promising premise.
While the novel was not perfect, it was still an amazing novel that promises even more exciting things to come in the next novels in the series.Embarrassingly I haven't read any of the Discworld novels of Pratchett, and none of Baxter's novels too.
I know that this first novel is aimed to be an introduction to the idea of stepping, so hopefully the next ones would offer a more vivid narration of the said possibility.The characters are well developed and filled with humor.
The reason for the disaster that's driving the aliens inward toward our Earth, the origin Earth, is in fact disastrous, but doesn't feel disastrous--and it's dispensed with too easily, no sacrifice (literally none, as the last sentence of the book proves) and no payoff.I was more dissatified with the social ramifications the authors believed would arise from this situation:1.
Supposedly, Stepping off to new and untamed wildernesses means the economy of Datum Earth (the main world) would start to collapse.
However, with The Long Earth Baxter has the late great Terry Pratchett to help make the science part more palatable and also infuse the novel with the magic of his wit, characterization, and of course, humour.
I have not read the Baxter & Clarke collaborations yet (coming soon), but they seem to be very like-minded gentlemen, and while I look forward to reading some mind blowing super science from their books I think the pairing with Pratchett seems like a much more dynamic combination; two very different talents that beautifully complement each other.The Long Earth is basically about parallel worlds, more specifically parallel Earths.
In 2015 humanity discovers a (potato-powered) device that enables it to travel to parallel worlds.
Natural stepper Joshua Valiente, along with Lobsang the super computer, decide to test the limits of these parallel worlds and go on the journey of their...
In the meantime, the rest of humanity decides it's time to start over, and begin colonizing the newly discovered worlds...
It's actually the author's particular brand of humor, that makes me come back to his novels over and over again.So imagine my surprise when I hardly found any of that humor in this book, and yet I still ended up liking it a lot.
Many people embrace this passionately, and rush off to stake their claim in a 'land rush' with no visible end game.
It's a book about global change.The book doesn't focus on a single person, showing us the experiences of a half-dozen or so, and headhops through a bunch more, but the primary character is Joshua, one of the first to hop, and also a natural hopper, able to travel without the device.
Genius!Joshua is extremely unlikeable, and few other characters distinguish themselves in any way.
But I was surprised and delighted by this novel and I'm jumping right into the next book.In a plot that you may feel has been done to death, a mad scientist disappears and leaves instructions to build a stepping device on the internet.
I also appreciate thought experiments that explore the implications of scenarios to the best of their ability.
This novel explores the implications of these parallel Earth's and throws in some great ideas.
This is a book that explores ideas rather than human relationships.I'm going to probably get some gasps at this statement: I don't really enjoy Terry Pratchett's humour.
You know how famous authors will occasionally complain about how readers will come up to them at cons and tell them that they have this amazing idea for a book; the author should write the reader's idea, and then they can split the money.
More than anything else, this feels like a novel-length list of ideas for a forty book series, each of which could be developed into a story but hasn't been yet.
The book concludes with a note that the story begins in Madison, WI, because the authors were there for a con and so could do research.
I finished The Long Earth yesterday, and came to see what others thought, and in many respects I agree; The Long Earth has an incredibly novel premise, but a storyline that in the end, doesn't really go anywhere (no pun intended).The book essentially offers a thought exercise of what would happen if relatively unlimited inter-planetary (or more correctly, inter-dimensional) travel were available to the masses on Earth.
How would it affect the economy of Earth and the people who remained?
So many questions and fascinating to think about.Unfortunately, the storyline that is the vehicle for this premise is not quite as strong.
Such a great concept, the execution though fell way short of my expectations. Going to give the sequels a pass...
I went with four because it is my default when I read such a book and it makes me think.The idea behind this book will be slightly familiar to those who watched Sliders or who have read comic books.
This is the best writing of the book (and give rise to the shot at the French).
In some ways, this feels like a quest in search of a plot.
But I enjoyed Baxter's Mammoth series, and after this book, I think I'll try some more by Baxter.
A strange blend of young adult and science fiction written for the novice and almost as many pop culture references as Ernest Cline.
Stephen Baxter has written some of the most complex science fiction I've ever picked up let alone read and to witness such feats of imagination and imagination stirring ideas watered down in to the fluff contained within these pages was incredibly disappointing.
But still, these complaints aside, this is a decent piece of science fiction writing by two natural born storytellers, it isn't bad it is just a disappointment.
This was my first non-discworld Pratchett and my first Baxter and between the two of them they put together an excellent novel.The premise behind The Long Earth is a fairly simple one at first glance - there are multiple universes parallel to our own and with the aid of a stepper you can move from one to the next in a "linear" fashion.
The ideas presented as some of the characters travel across the Long Earth are fascinating and provide lots of food for thought.There are also some physical elements that you can't carry from one Earth to another.
Who steps off to explore new worlds?
Humans immediately start stepping into other worlds to explore and create new homes.
(view spoiler)[What scares the trolls and elves, and has been creating a mental pressure that Joshua must fight against, is a singular entity that evolved to be the only sentient creature on its Earth.
And then, in the last two chapters, a nuclear bomb gets set off in original Earth, everyone escapes by stepping, and that's the end of the book.
And there's no real world-building; they don't explore how the original Earth changes, or talk further about what it means that Happy Landings has no crime or disabled people, or get in depth about anything at all.
I finished this book but I turned into edge of abandoning it many times. It was a bit slow and there were parts I just wanted to skip. It started so good and promising, feeling a bit sad that I won't read the rest of the series. The writing is good so and it's Pratchett so I can't give less than 3 stars!
Along the way, they discover worlds with altered evolution and essential alien versions of both sentient primates and of predator species, many of which have evolved conscious stepping like Josh.
I am satisfied with stopping for now with this volume under my belt, as I feel the innovative aspects of the scenario must surely reach a peak in the first novel of the set.
Yes, there is a growing collection of alternative history novels, but there are relatively few books that help us in our current horizon to take account of the likelihood of many parallel universes, possible spinning out infinitely from alternative paths of the present.
The idea and main concept of this book is immensly intriguing, and while certainly not a unique concept in the sci fi genre, the potential for a 'Terry Pratchett' take on it, appealed to me.As I read this book, an overwhelming surge of familiarity swept over me.
Alas, in my opinion, The Long Earth is not such an interpretation.Leaving the familiarity aside for a moment, by the time I reached a substantial mid point in the book, I still did not feel connected to the main characters.
Perhaps that was the intention, to end on a moment of despair, fear - and future books will resolve that - offer the hope I missed.
A fabulous book with fabulous concepts. So many unanswered questions, I suppose I have to figure it out for myself. Its great when you have to use your own imagination to supply the mechanism for the brilliant ideas in this book. A partnership of authors cut short too soon!
We get the best of both worlds, the hard-SF premise that promises to throw us into a very, very large setting because we're traveling through hundreds of thousands of alternate Earths as people "step" through them, getting the implications explored, from economics to law to nationhood and all the way back to what it means to be an individual.But what's more, it's a rip-roaring fun ride, with the classic iconoclastic loner with a unique ability to travel quickly between worlds and a truly fantastic Coke machine that thinks he's a human, (Really, he's a Buddhist AI airship, but who's counting?)And through all this, my expectations for a fun story, great characters, heavy science (explained easily or even just glossed over for the sake of speed, while also remaining accurate), and world building and plain imagination is all thrown into the same bag.
I finished 'The Long Earth' and it was dreadful.
"Look, there's a big ocean, there's a crocodile, there's an animal that's half elephant half rhino." Whenever the authors need to do some exposition that the AI and the companion aren't around to see, they just bung in another character.
Introduce a stenographer to listen to a big secret meeting, and then never go back to her again.The worst, though, the absolute worst, was when the authors introduce a family keen to go all old timer colonial, and the oldest child, a boy, can't step between the alternate Earths because he has a phobia.
He's thirteen years old!
1.5 stars, I really struggled to finish it, I even skipped passages.This is by far worst Terry Pratchett's book I read.Sure I given 2 stars to some Discworld books but that is because they where relatively weak compared to other Discworld books, I still had some fun with them.Story is uninteresting and most of the characters are just totally dull.Only reason I didn't give it 1 star because Joshua's PoV parts are not that bad and there are occasionally flashes of Pratchett's witty writing but that's just not enough.
3.5Though this book feels in many parts like an awkward blend of The Hitch-hiker's Guide and The Time Machine, but lacking in Adams' trademark humour and oddities (and Pratchett's, come to think of it) The Long Earth is still an interesting read. Focusing on ideas rather than plot has been pretty unusual in recent releases so it's quite refreshing to be allowed to explore all these worlds - different earth versions - without having to keep up with multiple relationships and character developments.
Dedications:For Lynn and Rhianna, as always - TPFor Sandra - SBOpening: IN A FOREST GLADE.Private Percy woke up to birdsong. It was a long time since he had heard birdsong, the guns saw to that. For a while he was content to lie there in the blissful quiet.A third of the way through and am not enjoying. I know, it's PTerry, but seriously this is not doing it for me.I'll have a break from it for a while - maybe curosity will get the better of me.
It’s a Meet Cute!“The Hobbit” +“Star Trek” +“The Long Way to an Angry Planet”The idea of stepping from Earth to Earth for evolutionary purposes or exploration, self-preservation and new beginnings is the concept in this fantastical Sci-Fi adventure.
It turned all my thoughts and know how upside-down as it explored deep niches of my understanding of what is possible and brought forth so many questions!“The way I see it, my ancestors put a lot of effort into getting out of the goddamn ocean and I don’t think I should throw all of that hard work back in their faces.” ― Terry Pratchett, The Long EarthJoshua and his AI companion Lobsang weren’t always exploring the Long Earth.
There are a lot of questions asked in this story that are never answered -- and while it's possible that's just to leave open room for a sequel, I kind of like the open-ended nature of the world(s) and characters created in this story and don't see the need for a second volume.There are times when the story seems to ramble a bit, and some of the characters we're introduced to only seem to play a role for a moment or two and then fade into the background, leaving me wondering if they even added enough color to the story to merit the few seconds it takes to read about them.
This is a fun, "feel-good" science fiction novel about a world where people can "step" from one Earth to another.
The story centers on Joshua, one of the few people who can step spontaneously.
Nevertheless, there is hardly any conflict in this book--there is a little bit, but it doesn't occupy a central place.
Most of the book is occupied with the interplay between Joshua and an organic/mechanistic hybrid person.
A "feel-good" atmosphere envelops much of the story, sort of reminiscent of Heinlein.
A lot of science fiction books, though futuristic, are believable to some extent.
Unfortunately, it turns out these asides are necessary to keep things moving, since the central storyline just isn't strong enough or interesting enough to carry a whole novel.As for that storyline, we have a natural stepper who has become something of a reluctant celebrity because of his heroic actions the night the rest of the world learned to step.
The two set out on a mission to explore their way to the heart of the Long Earth (assuming there is such a thing), stepping across hundreds of thousands of worlds on their journey.
The Long Earth is a clear example of a great idea that's been poorly executed.They are both great writers, but the plot goes nowhere and many pages later you're wondering why were you reading this in the first place.
