https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174722.Our_Oriental_Heritage
Our Oriental Heritage (Story of Civilization 1), Will Durant This volume covers Near Eastern history until the fall of the Persian Empire in the 330s BC, and the history of India, China, and Japan up to the 1930s.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1993 میلادیعنوان: مشرق زمین، گاهواره تمدن؛ نویسنده: ویل دورانت؛ مترجمان: احمد آرام؛ عسگری پاشائی؛ امیرحسین آریانپور؛ ویراستاران: احمد آرام؛ محمود مصاحب؛ امیرحسین آریانپور؛ تهران، اقبال، 1337؛ چاپ دیگر همین اثر، تهران، اقبال، در سال 1343 هجری خورشیدی؛ موضوع: تاریخ تمدن - سده 20 مهمین کتاب با ترجمه امیرحسین آریانپور در 1241 ص، کتاب نخست از تاریخ تمدن؛ انتشارات انقلاب اسلامی، در سال 1367، با نقشه و تصویر 100 ص، و در 1144 ص؛ چاپ دیگر سال 1376 و چاپ پانزدهم 1391 هجری خورشیدیفهرست: مقدّمه: پیدایش تمدّن؛ کتاب اوّل: خاور نزدیک؛ کتاب دوّم: هند و همسایگانش؛ کتاب سوّم: خاور دور؛ پایان سخن: میراث شرقی ما؛ •••؛ ملحقات از ص 995 تا 1144؛تاریخ تمدن نام مجموعه کتابهایی یازده جلدی ست، که: ویل و آریل دورانت، درباره ی تاریخ زندگی انسان، از دوران پیش از تاریخ، تا سده ی هجدهم میلادی نوشته‌ اند.
در «قانون حمورابى»، موارد فراوانى از مجازات ھاى خشن به چشم مى خورد که از جمله آن ھا مجازات اعدام است حتى مجازات اعدام براى برخى از اعمالى که ظاھراً اھمیت چندانى ندارد در نظر گرفته شده بود.این قوانین که مرکب از [282] ماده است به طریقى آمرانه و به صورت جملات شرطى نوشته شده است، بدین صورت که اگر کسى چنین کند چنان باید بشود----------------------------------------------------------------------------قوانین "آشورى": مجازات ها و کیفرھاى قانونى در «قوانین آشور» درجاتِ گوناگونى داشت، از قبیلِ نمایش دادن شخصِ گناھکار در میان مردم، واداشتن وى به کارھاى سخت، شلاق زدن از بیست تا صد ضربه، بریدن گوش یا بینى، خصى کردن یا اخته کردن، زبان بریدن، چشم در آوردن، شکم دریدن و سر بریدن...
First and foremost it is always extremely enjoyable to read a book written by someone with both extraordinary clarity of mind and superior skill of written word.
Second, 'Our Oriental Heritage' is very accessible introduction to history of China, India and Japan, topics that were previously unknown to me.It must however be said, that this is not a history book in traditional meaning of that term.
The aim of Will Durant, as he clearly states at the beginning of this book, is not to write only about politics, dynasties and wars, but also other areas that define a civilization, but which are often overlooked by traditional historians.
Finishing it was a triumph for me as a student of literature, the world, and life.We all probably remember doing a unit in Social Studies on the cradle of civilization, Babylonia and all that.
So to that teacher who did her best with me, I can report that I finally learned what is so important about the cradle of civilization.
Our Oriental Heritage even got me to read The Epic of Gilgamesh.I felt enriched and full of learning.
All I can say is wow, this book is extremely enlightening and eye opening. It covers the formation of civilization of the human race. which started in Africa and Asia. It was published in 1935, so if you are looking for the latest archaeological find on Egypt you won't find it here. But that's not what this book is about, this book is about exploring the development of the civilizing influenced on humanity, how cultures have risen and fallen and how human civilization has changed. I highly recommend this book to all human beings.
My God . . . it's full of stars! No really, this is one of the mandatory reads for anyone who wants to display affectations toward a liberal education. Incredible!
This volume of Durant's Story of Civilization is distinctive for being the most cursory, his aim having been to cover all prehistory, ancient civilizations before the Greeks and Asian civilizations--quite a task for just over a thousand pages!
Besides being a skimming of the surface, this volume is also the most painfully dated as it only goes up to the mid-thirties.
The subsequent volumes are far more detailed and focused, constituting a history of Western civilization with no real dependence on this initial, broader survey.
When Durant turns to the actual story of civilization, he's hampered by lack of hard data (which is a problem for any historian writing about this time, but, again, a lot of information has surfaced since 1939.) But it also becomes apparent rather quickly that Durant is not writing a narrative history, but a cultural one, which is great, if that's what you are interested in.
The less familiarity the reader has with these subjects, the more he or she is going to appreciate it, and while time has probably revealed more about these ancient civilizations, I don’t think Durant leads us too far astray.
This book is a massive one, starting from the dawn of humanity, discusses what it is required from us as a species to start a civilization. It talks about various civilizations starting from Sumeria, Assyria, Babylonia, Egypt in the west to India, China and Japan in the east. From the origins of the people in each civilization, it discusses about various rulers who brought the kingdoms together, their polity, religion and policies. It dwells more on art, architecture, literature, science, philosophy, developed in the various civilizations at different periods of time.
This book would've been way better if the author could avoid racism . The author will praise a civilization's wealth and advancement, then call those same people barbarians. He calls an Indian philosopher a pre-Kant plagiarist. What? Europe isn't special or original. The ancient east and African countries were contemplating death and suffering, calculating the circumference of the earth, when Rome was still mud
AT LEAST HALF OF THIS BOOK IS COMPLETE GARBAGE.There was certainly a great deal of valuable information in this tome, but it is extremely poorly documented and heavily peppered with supposition, speculation and littered with personal opinion loosely being passed as "history".With a very lengthy introductory section on pre-history, Durant paints a vivid picture of what human life was like prior to written records.
All my life, I have heard about the brilliance of the Durant, but all my life, the thick volumes of the Durants books were too much for me, regardless of the brilliance.BUT suddenly, Audible.com has brought out the 10 volume set of The History of Civilization, each volume of which is about 500 pages.
As I'm bedbound, 50 hours is far more manageable than 500 pages.But the brilliance I had heard about was definitely there.
Recognize it for the artifact that it is and read on.I'm going for the full ten volumes.
Durant is unmatched in the beauty and clarity of his prose, and in the piercing gaze through the mists of history.
Yes, there are elements which are dated thanks to more recent research, and yes, his sections which close the book on China and Japan are probably best forgotten due to the poor availability of translations and understanding of cultures, especially from ancient China.
No single book or author can encompass all knowledge or research.
Frankly the section on India (a subject he was especially familiar with) is worth the price of admission alone.I recommend this book as highly, and as strongly as anything ever shall be.
For a long time I wanted to read Durant's History of Civilization.
I wasn't too familiar with the Indian civilization, but after reading this book I feel fairly conversant with it.
The descriptions are luminous, characterization, even in an era without many known individuals, is outstanding and the humor is constant and sly.
I wasn't offended.
In the end it is better for words to keep their meaning rather tan pandering to individual prejudices.
Even though the book is long, it kept my attention at all times and I learned a lot.
I am looking forward to volumen 2, on Greece.

اولین جلد از مجموعه بزرگ ویل دورانت که به نوعی حاوی برداشت و شیوه گزارشگری او از تاریخ است.از دید او تمدن فعالیت هایی است که بر روی کره زمین در فواصله بین دو یخبندان اتفاق می افتد و تمدنی که تا به امروز به درازا کشیده در بین النهرین و پس از آخرین عصر یخبندان آغاز می شود.با توجه به گستردگی جزئیات، نویسنده تنها به برشمردن نکات اساسی هر تمدن اکتفا کرده و لذا علی رغم حجم بالای کتاب، ایجاز آن قابل توجه است.
Great book, written in the 1920s or 30s, before political correctness flavored all we see and hear. This book took an unemotional and fair look at the debt we owe ancient civilizations like Egypt, Sumeria, Assyria, China and so on. Really good.

Biased and inaccurate. I'd like to get my information from sources that are way more scientifically written.
Beautifully written history of the Ancient Near East and Far East.
Wonderful insight as to how these people lived as opposed to just histories of battles and conquests.
The only issue I have--which is no fault of the Durants--is that the book is a bit dated.
At the time of its publication the ancient histories of some of these places were still somewhat unknown in the West.
Having said that there is still a great deal of value in reading this book.
I highly recommend it to anyone with a curiosity of the ancient pre-Roman world.
Will Durant is an academic of the 1930's and his historical summaries of ancient Egypt, Israel, Babylon, Persia, Phoenicia, and Assyria are very much written in a style that has long passed into disuse.
Durant comes off as an pretentious windbag, but I must confess I enjoyed his antiquated reflections on human nature and the evolution of civilization as we know it.
When reading Durant one feels like a college freshman at an ivy league school in 1937 taking notes from a contankerous old professor in a tweed jacket and pipe explaining the origins of the modern world from 1500 B.C.; in some odd way it is both fascinating and retrofabulous.
کتاب رو تا نیمه خوندم، تا سر بخش هند.
مدت های زیادی همین طور توی کارنتلی-ریدینگ ها بود، به این امید که بهش برگردم.
از اون جایی که یه مقدار حضور دائمش جلوی چشم آزارنده بود، علی الحساب می ذارمش توی ناتمام ها، تا یه وقت دیگه بهش برگردم.با توجه به علایق من، این جلد جذاب ترین جلد این مجموعه است.
مخصوصاً نصفه ای که خوندم، مربوط بود به آغاز تاریخ، و ادیان و اقوام بدوی، و نخستین تمدن ها (بین النهرین و مصر).
برای کسی که به مطالعات مردم شناسی و تاریخ ادیان علاقه داره، تجربۀ خیلی هیجان انگیزیه.
This tome is a wonderful tour of the oldest human civilizations that existed (China, Japan, India, Judea, Persia, Egypt, Babylonia, Assyria) and that influenced Europe in any way.The Durants know very well how to make history a funny thing with their witty comments and great analysis. What's in the menu for you? Well everything that a respected civilization do: Art, wars, politics, philosophy, culture, religion, etc.
For years I've looked at the many volumes of Will and Ariel Durrent's History of Civilization and thinking--someday I will read them all. A few months ago I decided that I better get started now that I'm getting on in years. I loved this first volume and learned so much about Persian, Indian and Chinese civilizations that I had never learned in regular school. I'm reading in these books between other reading and so it is slow going, but well worth the time I invest.
The book hypothesized about a lot of what must have happened for humans to have evolved into our present state. However, his theories are often archiac, for example he mentions the "snake" in the "Garden of Eden" as being a phallic symbol. This psychodynamic approach has been debunked for the most part, and it makes me wonder what other parts of the book have not been brought to modernity.
I first started this book over Christmas break in 2003, which means it took me six years to finish. I found Durant entertaining despite his brutal and unrelenting atheism which constantly and obviously informs his understanding of history.
Rather than the typical approach of talking about leaders and main events in the societies he discusses, Durant mostly arranges content under a scheme designed to reveal certain characteristics of the society itself: art, science, religion, philosophy, literature, etc.
Also if one desires a more in-depth study of the political history of China for example there are many specialist works such as the Cambridge History of China, and the same can be said for all the other civilisations Durant covers.Ultimately I am not sure whether I will read all 11 books in this series.
The high level of scholarly research, the even-handed approach, the respect given to different cultures, and the insight into how these cultures intereacted with others--all of these issues (linked with the sheer volume and scale) make this series seminal in many, many regards.
Though these modern labels might technically be out of place when applied to events that happened centuries or millenia in the past, there are so many striking similarities, that it seems worse not to try to point out the fact that many ideas and problems have occurred at different points in human history.I really enjoyed listening to this book, but I probably wouldn't ever have made time to read it on paper.
I found this single volume secondhand at some point much later and finally began reading it in between other books in March 2015.Published in 1935, "At this historic moment - when the ascendancy of Europe is rapidly coming to an end, when Asia is swelling with resurrected life, and the theme of the twentieth century seems destined to be an all-embracing conflict between the East and the West ...
Even though there are probably newer discoveries and explanations for the ancient civilizations I think this book is worth reading for its breadth and the author's great spirit and intelligence.
Durant leans a little progressive in places, and carefully maintains an enlightened view of the quality of ancient Near and Far Eastern cultures.
He has no time for Westerners lauding the superiority of their heritage.
Sometimes he strains credulity with his levelling of East and West.
He assumes a naturalistic view of religion throughout.
That said, he is consistent in his tragic view of the human condition and appreciates at least the instrumental value of faith and liberty and morality.
Recommended for those with the interest, the time, an appreciation for the romantic, and the worldview chops to analyze Durant's sweeping opinions critically.
