https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74431.The_Quest_for_Corvo
Symons’ genuine love for Rolfe’s writing means there’s always a tender, sympathetic side to his portrait of Rolfe.
Symons sees the comic charlatan in Rolfe but, thanks to his generosity of imagination he also sees genius and it’s this delicately balanced perspective that makes this such a riveting, hysterically funny and moving book.
It’s also an awesome achievement how much material Symons managed to gather given that Rolfe was no more of a public figure than you or I at the time he set out on his quest.
Rolfe works his consuming charm on Symons just as he bewitched all his patrons.
This is one of the most interesting books I've ever read.
It's about Frederick Rolfe, a truly odd duck- prickly, brilliant, an Englishman obsessed with becoming a Catholic priest.
I was enthralled.
The way he lived his life seems almost fictional.
Rolfe upset nearly everyone he met.
He's just the sort of character who should have a book written about him.
This is one of the books you read that sticks to your ribs.
People like Frederick Rolfe are fascinating, and the author, A.J.A. Symons, writes this book almost like a novel, exactly the way it should've been written.
He also makes discreet, but masterly use of the fashionable modernist techniques; the amateur-detective fiction frame known from The Great Gatsby, for instance; fragmented and conflicting point of view; variety of voices.The books works so fantastically well, in spite of its rather simple premise (find out as much as possible about author; write letters letters letters; reprint received letters letters letters), because of its peculiar subject.
The tormented, multitalented, paranoid Frederick Rolfe, a man with an infallible and elaborate self-sabotage mechanism, makes my pet miserable author - Jean Rhys - look like a fully functional, successful person.
This groundbreaking 'experimental biography' is a comical but curiously sad portrait of Frederick Rolfe, self-styled Baron Corvo.
Rolfe was a consummate eccentric who also happened to be a talented writer.
A.J.A. Symon's disappointment at not being able to find out anything to speak of about Corvo after reading one of his obscure books led to the 'quest' of the title.
Symons was fascinated by Corvo, and we in turn become fascinated as well.
Corvo was a tortured soul, given to quarrels and paranoid delusions.
He seemed to have been besieged by the sort of extravagant bad luck that always follows those who feel the world doesn't fully appreciate them.
This was interesting and all but you have to wonder about a guy who reads a book he likes and decides to spend a decade obsessing over the author
an experiment in biography...you can say that again...very strange book
Did it hurt or help that I’d never read any of Fr Rolfe’s (that is, Baron Corvo’s) books before I read his peculiar biography?
I’d been tempted in the past by a dog-eared copy of Hadrian VII at a local bookshop; I may have to pick it up now.
But Symons' semi-famous biography was certainly fascinating.
Corvo may have been a freak, but he had his gifts.
Someone ought to comb through his various letters and published works and prepare a nice, tidy volume of Baron Corvo’s Selected Invective.
I’d sign up for a copy right now.
Symons reads it, determines to find out more about its author, and the biography – and the detective story - begins.His subject is the enigmatic, difficult, vitriolic – but sometimes charming and disarmingly talented – Frederick Rolfe, a man who had been disappointed in his hopes of becoming a Catholic priest.
The long-ignored novel is his ‘Hadrian the Seventh’ which is about a man who, disappointed in his hopes of becoming a Catholic priest, is given a second chance, and, with amazing rapidity, becomes Pope.The combination of wish-fulfilment and revenge is alarming, but readers of course, would have been ignorant of the author’s history, and DH Lawrence was apparently among the book’s admirers.
I found out that this play was based on a novel of the same name, written by a Baron Corvo.
I didn’t bother to find out any more about him, although I did learn that a biography (this one) had been written about him years ago.
Corvo published the book, “Hadrian the Seventh,” in 1904.
It didn’t sell well, nor did any of the other books written by Corvo.
It is more like a mystery, as Symons works his way backwards to find the people who knew Corvo and gather information from them.
Rather than chronologically narrating the life of Frederic Rolfe a.k.a "Baron Corvo", the author follows his own progress and correspondence in search of the Baron's life details.
Frederic Rolfe was a delusional, tragic man with a talent for writing and a deep seated paranoia.
The author cannot conceal his passion for the subject and it becomes contagious.
I haven't read the books Rolfe wrote but I am afraid that they might have lost whatever glow they had in their time.
I admit I am judging it a priori but somehow I have no interest in finding out if I am right or wrong.
A wonderfully-done biography of Fr. Rolfe, the author of the classic "Hadrian VII"--- as fine a bit of Edwardian eccentricity and ecclesiastical fantasy as you'll ever find.
Rolfe was a failed seminarian and mythomaniac who wrote a book about how a snobbish, conflicted, brilliant Englishman (oddly, a failed seminarian who looks just like Rolfe himself) is suddenly, inexplicably made Pope...and saves Europe for Catholicism before being martyred.
Rolfe spent his life playing roles--- the Italian nobleman ("Baron Corvo"), the Decadent author, the Catholic obsessive, the Englishman-in-Venice, the lover of antique literature and handsome boys.
Symons catches him in all his hothouse glory as a wonderfully arcane, sorely underappreciated minor gem.
I started this book two nights ago and didn't go to sleep until I finished it! I don't want to ruin it for anyone so won't explain except to say that it's truly astonishing and -- quite literally -- impossible to put down.
Beautiful writing and magically oddball subject. Corvo would have fit in very well in modern day Baltimore.
Symons calls it an 'experiment' and it must be acknowledged that it has proved entirely successful and influential in the long run (as the popularity of latter day incarnations like Binet's HHhH demonstrates).The book's elusive subject is Frederick Rolfe (a.k.a. Baron Corvo for a short period), the author of (among other things) Hadrian the Seventh, a novel about a newly-minted young pope with decidedly ultramontane views and a passion for chainsmoking.
If that sounds remarkably like the plot of the hit (ish) HBO show The Young Pope it is because Rolfe was always destined to be the sort of writer who people praise and nick ideas from only to ultimately shove him aside and abandon him to the dustbin of footnotes-of-footnotes.
The mystery Symons really wants to answer focuses on Rolfe's mental state, the paranoid anger and misanthropic rage that sank so much of his career, and so spectacularly.
Along the way Symon's discusses Rolfe's sexuality in a clinical but surprisingly frank way, considering that this was published in 1934 as homophobia reached high tide in the Western world.
It is this discussion, toward the end, that provokes the most thought, for Symons inadvertently raises a question that may not have occurred to any writer of his era: was Rolfe's anger at those around him, though seemingly irrational, actually in some sense rational?
But he wrote a couple (purportedly!) amazing books and one of them led AJA Symons on a quest to find out more about this misguided genius.This book is both an exploration of Corvo's life and a description of Symons' quest for information.
So Symons describes the interactions he has with friends and relatives of Rolfe, in trying to get information, including missing manuscripts for books he wrote.
Certainly a book I wish I had in ebook form, so I could look up all the quaint words used, both by Symons and by Rolfe.
Extraordinary.
Interesting, amusing, lovely language. It was easy to get caught up in the author's enthusiasm for his search and subject.
This is a pretty good book. I just kinda lost interest in it.
I had bought this book some time ago along with Frederick Rolfe's (aka Corvo) Hadrian the Seventh thinking that I'd read about the author before starting the novel.
I think it's important for anyone who plans to read anything by Rolfe/Corvo to at least have some familiarity with him both as a person and as an author, because he is no ordinary teller of tales.
I read this book after my first read of Ossuary of the North Lagoon making the second time through much more meaningful in terms of understanding Rolfe's work as semi-autobiographical.
An interesting story of a man with a very interesting, thought somewhat troubled life. I'm glad I read it before Hadrian the Seventh. I don't remember how I was made aware of this book or the man.
Halfway through the book I got overwhelmed by an intense longing – to become a discoverer of obscure English books filled with thoughtful commentary on life and fate.
I thank the spirit of Fr.Rolfe aka Baron Corvo for this amazing double synchronicity and for the extraordinary life that he lived.
Funny, sad, outrageous, heartbreaking, quirky, repellent – there are many adjectives to describe Corvo’s life, but the most important is, courageous.
Accepting one’s grim fate and not committing suicide takes a lot of courage, and I think Corvo as an expert astrologer understood that.
Would I read Corvo’s texts?
3.5 starsI very much joyed this biography. Frederick Wolfe/Corvo wrote in such thick, rich, and complex prose that was fun to wade through. Keep your dictionary handy! And our biographer and those whose letters make-up much of the narrative of this book seem to unconsciously (sometimes consciously) mimic the style; I've found myself doing the same in recent emails :) It's as if the inspired, tormented character that is Wolfe gives permission to use language itself as ambitious art and riddle at once.
I read because of the "Five Best" recommendation in the Wall Street Journal and also because it has a relation to Venice -- I'm reading lots about Venice at the moment.The author was obsessed with learning the truth about "Baron Corvo" (Frederick Rolfe) for many years and the result is this biography-cum-detective story.
The detective story -- how Symons pieced together facts of the Corvo/Rolfe tale -- is quite entertaining for the most part, although it did get a bit tedious at one point.
He is a man out of time, addicted to the Renaissance and a homosexual in Victorian England.The story is structured, roughly, around Symmon's quest, what he finds out when, the lucky breaks that lead him to insights, the nagging holes that he cannot fill but that the reader might do so imaginatively.The only criticism is that by the end, when we know Rolfe's tendencies, it becomes a bit tedious to learn of yet another patron he cultivated and then turned on--some of that could certainly have been glossed.
He, or rather Dom Gheraldo in his entries, tells a story: he reveals by slow and feline touches the character of the priest from within; and at the same time he attempts to give an English equivalent for the verbal mix-up of the pretended original.
Even so, Don Renato is not a book to read at a sitting, but rather one to be dipped into at odd hours when the mind can be stimulated by puzzles in verbal ingenuity.About his own life, writing back to a friend who accuses him of selfishness, Fr. Rolfe writes:Selfish?
I've known vaguely about this biography for some time, but never got around to opening it.
I regret waiting so long!In 1925, a London bookseller handed Symons Hadrian VII, which sparked his obsession to find out what kind of person could have written such a book.
He tracked down all of Fr. Rolfe's living relatives, friend, and enemies, uncovered unpublished manuscripts, and got his hands on as many of Rolfe's letters as possible.
As the title suggests, it is sometimes not exactly a biography but rather the story of Symons's own "quest".
A gay man of the Edwardian age supported by wealthy acquaintances who found him interesting until he denounced them, one by one, in bitter letters.The biographer: A.J.A. Symons, writing in the 1930's.
Curiosity spurs him to learn all he can about Corvo, to document the man's strange life and thwarted ambitions, and to resurrect any unpublished works he can find.
The Quest forms the structure of the book; one could consider it a nonfiction precursor to Citizen Kane or Rashomon.One suspects Symons -- a previously-unsuccessful writer and low-income "dandy" (as described by Wikipedia) -- saw himself in Corvo, hence the need to understand and appreciate him.Highly recommended!
Odd in concept (memoir of a biographer) and maybe historically relevant for the idea, like a Tristam Shandy or the Orson Welles movie about hiring someone to discover who he really was etc...but relatively boring to read and the prose was nothing to write home about either.
An amazing jaunt through sorting and the sordid.
