https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176804.The_Black_Gryphon
*** 4.25 ***The Black Gryphon, first chronologically in The Valdemar series, turned out to be one very pleasant read. The Mage Wars Trilogy is the start of a sweeping through thousands of years series and I decided to follow the reading order recommended by the author. Fantasy Buddy Reads group started reading it this moth and I jumped right in.  "...“Inexperience can be overcome, ignorance can be enlightened, but prejudice will destroy you.”..." The Black Gryphon covers the brewing war between
The Black Gryphon covers the brewing war between two very powerful mages, Urtho and Maar.
He is not as inventive as Urtho, but in the moment the peaceful mage comes up with a tool or a creature to oppose Maar, he is able to copy and pervert those creations and re-purpose them to his own needs.
He makes sure that the troops of Urtho are in top shape to fight for what they all feel is right and also happens to be the gryphon's Skandranon and the hertasi (a lizard-person creature) Gesten's best friend and their roommate.
4.5 stars If you're looking for a light lovely read you should definitely consider this!Why?
you look like a mop, and if he were a female he wouldn't have you either
no matter what tears were shed or what trials were faced, some things would stay the same.
There would always be day and night, stars and sky, hope and rest.
There would always be love, always compassion...
and always a good book like this to put a smile on your face!
Happy reading!
3.75 stars This was my first book by Mercedes Lackey and, reading it now, it does feel a bit old school but that didn't lessen my enjoyment of the story. It's not super complex - the good guys are good, the bad guys are bad - but it was a very pleasant, calming read.
This was my first Mercedes Lackey book, all the way back in High School.
I love the "civilian perspective" that this book gives to a war.
So many fantasy books focus on the battles and "great deeds".
You only see three battle scenes the whole book and one of them is more of an afterthought of a battle.
The true focus is on the downtime in between the battles and how the fighters and their support go about their lives in spite of the war.
I LOVE the characters as well, Amberdrake's insecurities...
As an old friend, this is a book I love to revisit.
This is one of the first books I read in the Valdemar world, and it hooked me quite thoroughly.
It is still my favorite of the ones I have read so far.
However, they are presented in a unique wrapping, and they are unoriginal because they are nearly-universal.
The unique presentation makes it interesting, while the familiarity is comforting.
A perfect mix, and very typical of Lackey's Valdemar books.Lackey's habit of switching between characters' POVs is well done here, but it can be quite distracting if the reader is not used to it.
I never get tired of re-reading this book.
I like it. But I always like Mercedes Lackey.For the first half of the book I thought Skan and Amberdrake were gay interspecies lovers. Then I found out they were just really close, and interspecies lovers don't exist in Valdemar, duh! Well how was I supposed to know, Mercedes is always pushing some socially progressive sexual tolerance in her books, I thought maybe she was taking it to the next level... ;)Love Zhaneel. And I want a kestra'chern massage. :P
Revisiting another of my favorite Mercedes Lackey books found me smiling in remembrance; I hadn't marked this as 'read' in my time on Goodreads, but the instant familiarity means it must have been one of the last books I read before I joined this site.
Like with many of Lackey's books, the war is only secondary to the relationships of the characters.
The Mage Wars set off a fraught era of Valdemar's history, in which many events are influenced.
It is a great starting point for the series, or just a revisit on events.
I love Lackey's Valdemar novels, and this is set in the same world a thousand years before that country's founding, in the midst of a cataclysmic war referred to more than once in that series.
It doesn't get more than that, because unlike other Lackey books in this world, I can't imagine I'd ever reread it; I don't think it's among Lackey's best, and I wouldn't ever choose these books as an introduction to the author.
So if you love Lackey and her Valdemar books already, I think you'll like, even if not love this book; but if you're new to the author, try Arrows of the Queen or Magic's Pawn first.
The people are aided in their efforts by gryphons...flying carnivores that speak and think in human language.
They are raptors but constructed on a larger scale by their beloved Founder Urtho.
The Black Gryphon is the main character and the best friend of Amberdrake, a kind of professional counselor with the "gift" of empathy.
My favorite character though was little "Kechara" (meaning "beloved")...the mis-born gryphon of Urtho who has the mind of a child (in a small adult body) but a hidden mental power that is yet to be unleashed.
Mercedes Lackey has to be one of my favourite fantasy authors ever. Her talent for creating believable magical worlds and elegant, mystical creatures shines in this book. It's a gripping read from start to finish.
What always impresses me about her though is that the real focus of her books is always on her characters and the relationships they have--not just romantic ones, but also friendships, bonds between parents and children, teachers and students, etc.
I don't consider them "epic" fantasy novels like Tolkien or Martin or Jordan, even though they're all "fantasy." But they're enjoyable reads for anyone who likes a) fantasy and b) for a story to focus on its characters and relationships between them.
A friend lent me the Mage Wars trilogy, which is a prequel trilogy in Mercedes Lackey's Valdemar world.
I love Mercedes Lackey's Elemental Masters series to bits, so I've been keen to read Valdemar books for a while.
This friend is a massive Lackey fan, and offered to lend me the first Valdemar book, so of course I accepted!The only snag is that The Black Gryphon is the internal chronology first Valdemar book, not the publication order first :/ I am usually super pedantic about reading series in publication order.
I decided to re-read this after being able to meet the author and her husband Larry Dixon who did the art for the book.
This is really the only time gryphons are the focus of the series.
Skandranon who is the main focus is a smartassed "bird" with a huge ego, and for me, it makes him funny instead of annoying, especially when he gets taken down a peg or two.
This book is the first in the Mage Wars trilogy and gives you the background of why Valdemar functions the way it does in later books.Re-read 2018I still love Skandrannon, his attitude is very well written.
I read this book several years before I became involved with Goodreads, and I'm just now feeling moved to write a review because I saw it listed as one of the "Best 'Strong Female' Fantasy Novels." I'll get the bad news out of the way first: it really isn't, at least to me.
Amberdrake is okay, but Skandranon steals the book with his badassery and his wisecracking charisma and his way of being completely relate-able even though he is distinctly (and appealingly) not human.
If you're looking for a reason to pick up the book, he's it.
The advantage to rereading the Valdemar books in internal chronological order is that I get my least favorite ones out of the way first.
And some bad parts - any of Skandranon's internal dialogue.
Amberdrake, obviously written by Lackey, is much more bearable.There's also the larger problem of turning stories that are set up as legends in previous books into actual novels.
I'm just not that fascinated by a secondary character's bad romantic choices, and she turns from a villain into a hero far too quickly and easily.
Skandranan is proud, vain, reckless, loyal, fierce and completely loveable.
He's a gryphon, the ultimate predator who always manages to come back from one-way missions.
He's one the front lines of a magic war the good guys are losing.
So Skandranan goes on one last heroic mission - that will either save everyone or destroy everything.I love Mercedes Lackey, and this book is the pinnacle as to why.
There's enough magic and action for the biggest die-hard fantasy fan but it's the characters that bring me back again and again!
Having reread this series this week, I found that this first book, is actually the most powerful of this so called "trilogy" - which really is a loose collection of connected stories. It is a good perspective, historically speaking, of Urtho and the Mage Wars of Valdemar. Ma'ar is not nearly as interesting as you would hope, however, in comparison to his other iterations. However, it was a great book, with a lot of strength in its story, and is highly recommended for Valdemar fans. The second and third are much weaker stories, for those who move forward with it.
This book had a lot to do, introducing the reader to a new world and many new species, so it is not surprising that it was difficult to get a handle on what is going on as the book unfolds. By the end of the book, however, the reader is fully invested and wanting to move on to the second in the series, even though the first in the series doesn't end terribly well. It certainly ended better than expected at one point. The illustrations are wonderful, although the placement was a bit misleading from time to time.
This was the first book by Mrs. Lackey that I had ever picked up. The title and cover art drew me to it and I have never regretted picking it up.
TBR
*actual rating: 3.5 out of 5 stars*This book was interesting, mainly because of the characters.
They are all really well-written and are the saving grace of this story.
Unfortunately, the lack of world-building got me.
I was confused about much of what was going on at the beginning of the book, so much so that characters had been introduced and had several scenes before relevant gender or species information was provided.
It made it very hard to picture what was happening and what everyone looked like.
The ending was amazing though, and I definitely wouldn't mind seeing where the story goes next.
Pinning down what bugged me most about this one isn't easy. It's one part the total lack of a female character who wasn't an offensive cardboard cutout stereotype, one part confusing worldbuilding, and one part nothing happening for the vast majority of the book except for vague interpersonal squabbles involving one-shot characters. I usually love Lackey's stuff, but this fell completely and totally flat for me.
This is the first book of the Valdemar series - chronologically. It's good as far as introducing the beginning of things, but I found it a bit slow. It seemed to drag out some things that might have been better if they'd been moved along a little faster. However, it was a great introduction and I am looking forward to continuing on with the series.
This is probably my favorite book in all the Valdemar series. Always has been. It has to do with gryphons. And a war. And love. And magic. And gryphons. Delicious on all counts.
In the end I was still heartbroken by the tun of events, but was relieved to see that this is not one of those books that kills off likable characters so easily as soon as you start to like them.The resolve of the situation at the end left me a bit confused because it was really rushed, while the book had more of that drama feeling to it, where we could have a very interesting view upon life in a war camp and different people in it, who still quarrel and fight although they are fighting for the same side.
The Black Gryphon The entire Valdemar series is a favorite of mine and one that I have reread repeatedly over the years.
Drake is Skan's best friend, a human friend who is also a member of Urtho's troops, working among the troops as a kestra'churn.
Gesten, a supporting character and a hertasi (a lizard-like, intelligent creature), is a bit on the sarcastic side, but his interplay with both Skan and Drake is great, often witty and sometimes just as the voice of reason.
A standout favorite is Kechara, a misborn gryphon who is a supporting character, but adds warmth and sweetness to the story.
This is the first of three books discussing the pre-history of Mercedes Lackey's Valadmar series.
But recently, I decided I wanted to read the book again with, not exactly fresh eyes, but knowledgeable eyes.
The characters are enjoyable, though I think I would have liked to have more interaction with the Bad Guys to really show that they're bad.
However the plot isn't quite one of those sorts of things.
Still, that's what a Mercedes Lackey book is.
If you like those sorts of things then it's good.
Black Gryphon sets up the Storms by depicting their origins, although, since this is a Lackey book, not without a good deal of character-development meandering first.
After that, the book veers off into a number of subplots, including romances for both our heroes, a detour into gryphon reproductive systems (really), and one vaguely related to the main plot about how some generals tend to treat the nonhumans as dumb animals.
Lackey has a knack for taking really awful plots and making them entertaining as hell-- for example, I only just now realized how weird the detour into gryphon reproductive systems is, writing about it.
The tale threw you into the life of Skandranon and Amberdrake as well as their mates during a massive war between two mages.
Although, Skandranon is dealing with people thinking he and other gryphons as weapons, when he isn’t risking his life.Amberdrake is a special healer, one with gifts.
Though the main question is who heals the healer when he is hurt?Throughout the story you go through the main protagonists’ life and how they dealt with being in the midst of a war.
Will they be safe from the terrors of war or will they lose someone close to them?I found the various characters in the story intriguing and fell in love with the plot.
There are some new books added to the series since the last time I read them, so this re-reading project is pretty exciting for me since it will include these new volumes, and will be in a new order.
I think I was in 4th or 5th grade when I first started reading them, and they've always been a pleasure to re-read - and I am sure this will continue to be the case!The Valdemar series is broken up into (for the most part) separate trilogies.
And re-reading it as an adult, though obviously still tinged with nostalgia, it is an exciting book.
