https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311124.Detection_Unlimited
I'm making my way slowly along through all the old Georgette Heyer detective stories that are told in the tone and style of the Golden Age of British Detective stories.A victim that not a soul liked, a village full of quirky suspects, and a chief inspector with a delicious sense of humor while he dug out all the secrets, sifted through the facts and clues, and eventually arrived at the truth.Like the old-style detective stories, this one introduces the characters while building to the moment of the body's discovery.
I expect a certain degree of neatness in detective stories, because they're artificial, but that whiffed of something like Putting Those Upstarts In Their Place, or something.Still, while the characters are more or less stereotypical for a little village murder, they're fun as drawn by Heyer, and she certainly has a way with words.
First published in 1953, this was the last of Georgette Heyer’s mysteries and the last in my project to read them all.
Written in order to pay a tax bill (if I remember correctly from Jennifer Kloester’s excellent biography, Georgette Heyer: Biography of a Bestseller) the novel has a cast of quirky characters and is full of Heyer's witty dialogue.
The plot – a reasonably standard whodunit with a range of possible culprits – is not exactly a page turner but was engaging enough to retain my interest.
However, it was a fun read, made even more fun by reading it with my friend Jemidar – who, clever clogs that she is - picked the culprit well in advance.
Rating Clarification: 3.5 StarsWho would have wanted to murder solicitor Sampson Warrenby?Apparently everyone in the village of Thornden.There's no shortage of suspects to question when Scotland Yard sends one of their finest -- Chief Inspector Hemingway -- to ferret out means, motive and opportunity.
Oh, the wife had motive alright: Warrenby had had the unmitigated nerve to kick poor peekie Ulysses (!!!).Another classic whodunit from Heyer set in the mid-1950's, and one of her final mysteries.
It was hard to picture the village of Thornden and the juxtaposition of all the houses and plots of land which made up a good portion of the book.
While I reread this I kept thinking it would have been nice to keep a list of suspects, a timetable of their movements, and to create a map of the town where the murder took place. However, as I was also taking care of two small boys, I was satisfied with just enjoying reading it. My point is that Heyer's mysteries contain all the details you need to solve them, and at the same time she pulls you in with her likable characters and quaint English settings. Adding a bit of romance never hurts.
Sadly this is the last detective story that GH wrote.Hemingway (now a Chief Inspector) sparkles throughout & this book worth reading for his dialogue alone.I have one leg longer than the other myself & I was wondering why Gavin simply didn't wear a lift in his shoe? Surely they would have been available in the 50s?But a minor quibble for a very enjoyable book.
All I can say about the Inspector Hemmingway series is that I am glad that I finally finished all four of them. I didn't particularly like any of the characters. However, the mystery was somewhat interesting.
When the local police decide to bring in Scotland Yard, Chief Inspector Hemingway finds that he has more than the village policemen offering him assistance.
The villagers each have their pet suspect and can't understand why Hemingway doesn't immediately arrest him...or her.
All the usual suspects are on board--and we even have the suspicious foreigner to grab some of our attention.
And Hemingway has his usual "flair" and a new sidekick.
There were plenty of red herrings which managed to keep me guessing until the end, although I was torn between two suspects--the correct one and another.
Set in the changing world following the Second World War, the disillusionment inherently felt in the slow erosion of the class structure is made clear, and the whole book is permeated by a sense of gentle melancholy.
In a sense, this is a lament to times gone by, and the thrusting character of the victim who, it is made clear, was not of the county but needed to be shown how to behave, epitomizes the new world order to come.
The romance is thrown in here as an added bonus and is welcome as anantidote to the pious do-goodery of another of the characters.
A total wallbanger. For years people have been praising Georgette Heyer so I caved and tried this one. Wordy, pretentious and not fit to lace up Agatha Christies shoes.
Actually a little boring... It felt like forever until it was concluded.
Another Inspector Hemingway mystery which takes place in an English village peopled by folks who could be stereotypes, but often seem surprisingly modern in their thinking. The murder victim is disliked by everyone for good reasons, and one suspect is a clever fellow who brags that he might have done it. which is intended to throw the Inspector off.
Il giallo non si addice a Georgette, il suo colore è decisamente il rosa antico. Qualche guizzo ironico, qualche brillio nei dialoghi non riscattano una serie di personaggi-macchietta e una trama quasi inesistente. Peccato.
This small English village is filled with people with secrets.
One of those secrets gets a man killed.Inspector Hemingway is called in from Scotland Yard because the people involved in this murder are from the upper classes and they make it harder to get questions answered.The gentleman who was murdered definitely needed to be killed.
There are as many theories given to Inspector Hemingway as there are people in the village.As the reader is drawn into the story, there are introductions to quite a number of characters.
Ms Heyer provides a story which takes us to a very British atmosphere filled with very British attitudes.
As I learned in The Private World of Georgette Heyer by Jane Aiken Hodge, her husband (who left his career as a mining engineer to become a barrister) actually helped her with writing her mysteries, making sure that she left appropriate clues that would give the reader a fighting chance to solve the mystery.As with her Regency romances, Heyer writes colorful dialogues between the characters and develops them fully throughout the book.
For me, as a mystery lover, I enjoyed seeing Georgette Heyer use her talents in this genre and look forward to reading more of her mysteries.
Enjoy her regency novels and can look past the dated-ness and figured the anit-semitism and occasional racist comments were the way they were in the 1700's.And I'm sure England was pretty homogenous in the early 60's - but I was still annoyed by the contant Pole-bashing by all the characters and the insistance on demonizing foreigners (even if she was trying to make a point about it).But the final straw is after meandering about with all the suspects and all their theories, there is NO resolution.
The final scene is just the detective figuring it out.
More like Detection Extremely Limited.
Buddy read with Kim :-).
On one hand, the story is among her better mystery plots and the action moves on a little better.
On the other hand, the edition I read was full of typos and bad writing, i.e. missing punctuation and missing words.
In this book she makes known her contempt for the changes that occurred in England after two wars in regard to the decline of stately homes with lots of servants.
Heyer is known for her witty dialogue, which she does indeed write very well, but her mysteries provide an interesting look at how social attitudes changed in the twenty years between the first and last mystery.
I read my first Georgette Heyer book in 1968, and spent years after that (no Kindle or Overdrive in those days!) reading all her Regency romances and British "cozy" mysteries.
So imagine my surprise when, having an hour to kill, I went into a library and looked for a Heyer novel to skim during my wait, and found this cozy that I had apparently never read.
Since much of the mystery is based on who was where when, the story could have benefitted from a drawing of the village, estates and various paths and byways.
This is not Heyer's best cozy, but it was clever enough.

A satisfying conclusion to the series.
I do wish there had been more, because I enjoy Hemingway's sense of humor when approaching a problem, but I also think that by reading them all at once, and not spaced apart by 15 years like when they were published, you start to see how Heyer repeats herself.
The young man and woman who don't take things seriously enough and want to banter, the curmudgeonly old person who is offended by the very presence of the police, the murderer who is always the person trying their hardest to throw you off-track.
I really enjoyed this book. It's the first time in ages I haven't got to the suspect before it was revealed, so it's definitely a nice plot twist (the problem, as the narrator finds, is that none of them are suspicious, which makes it very hard to work out!) It was a beautifully simple plot for a beautifully simple crime, it relied not on dramatic twists or unexpected happenings/further murders, just good old fashioned detection and character development. One of the best murder mysteries I've read recently.
Meh. This book was notable mostly for the complete lack of agency or intelligence displayed by any of its women. I didn't mind Hemingway as a character but I found the characterization lacking - everyone kind of seemed to be a type or a caricature of themselves. I don't think I'll read many more of Heyers' detective novels, since this is the second one I've tried and I'm only marginally more impressed by this one.
3.5 stars.Another interesting case. I'm glad the murder took place a lot earlier than in the previous books. Also, we see an older Hemingway who kept questioning his own ability to retain information. What I've enjoyed about this series are Hemingway's different sidekicks who provide the comedic relief. It's been quite funny seeing their interaction with Hemingway throughout the series. A pity this is the last book, I'm going to miss Hemingway.
Not my favourite of Georgette Heyer's mystery novels, that award would have to go to Envious Casca. However it is still pretty good barring the ending which feel rushed and inconclusive. You are left with a lot of loose ends and explanations. It is almost as if she thought that it was getting too long so better wind it up. As in all of Miss Heyer's detective novels there are many irritating and downright unlikable characters but you will probably guess the murderer.
2 1/2 stars. Not my favorite mystery written by her. I got lost in the beginning trying to keep everyone straight. I finally got them straight but many of them didn't stand out. They were flat characters. The woman with dogs was funny. And there other moments that were humorous. But, overall, I thought the characters and plot were forgettable.
This is the second Heyer mystery I've read, and I predicted "who dunnit" with both of them! But, in both cases, I didn't know why or how, and wasn't ever sure I was right...so they were still really fun to read! And as always with Heyer's writing, there is so much more to it than the central plot. Fantastic characters, wonderful wit, all around charm. Lots of fun!
Found all the village characters a little hard to keep in my head at first but got there in the end! Inspector Hemingway was as good as ever and I liked the mentions to cases and inspectors from previous books.
The best one Liked this one the best of all the Detective Hemingway books. The murder was done early in the book so there weren't too many unnecessary details and fluff to clutter the story. Interesting to see how writing styles have changed over the years.
