https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8366402-the-tiger-s-wife
And Natalia's Grandfather, arguably the most important character in the book - why are there great gaping holes in what we know about his life?
In my view, the balance of power in this novel is held by the wrong characters - the depth is given to stories that frankly don't deserve it, while complete superficiality (at best) is all that is afforded to the stories that actually matter.- The long, long-winded descriptions: Yes, Obreht can write.
Primarily, Obreht's talent is directed towards describing places, objects, and events, (without emotion, as I said before) in the kind of detail only God would notice.
While I give credit to Tea Obreht for her ingenuity and creativity with the story, I felt at times frustrated by the pace of the the book and the way it wound through the fantastical tales which I found more distracting than entertaining or enlightening in its detour from the main story.
It seems the book began with the promise that there would be resolution and understanding but the way Obreht went about it -- through outlandish stories told by the grandfather about other people, seemed, in the end, to me frustrating.
5 stars for hype4 stars for beautiful writing3 stars for interesting folk stories2 stars for plot1 star for meaning5 stars.
And a lot of money was spent on hyping this book up.4 stars.
There are two main stories in the book.
But it is actually based on the story of a tiger that did escape the zoo in the war and haunted the hills above the town.2 stars.
That is the loose plot that hangs together the folk stories that the grandfather told his granddaughter.
It is in this fascinating region that Téa Obreht sets her elegantly written debut novel, The Tiger’s Wife.While the protagonist of The Tiger’s Wife is Natalia Stefanovic, a young doctor who has returned to her homeland to help the villagers, the central mystery of the book revolves around Natalia’s beloved grandfather as Natalia seeks to reconstruct his final days and his death in a village named Zdrevkov, far from his home.Although Natalia’s search for the rhyme and reason behind her grandfather’s actions seems pretty straightforward, Obreht twines two folktales/legends around the central story, and in their telling writes a “story about stories.” And, even though Natalia is the protagonist of The Tiger’s Wife, it’s her wise, sweet grandfather who takes center stage, or at least he should.Natalia’s grandfather lives in the City, a city that can only be Belgrade, but this is a book of fiction, and I really didn’t care if Obreht named the city or not.
Her novel's central question asks, "How do people respond to death?" The setting is the Balkans, an area with complex histories and cultures -- all wrestling with death in one form or another: death from disease, from poverty and from violence both small within the walls of a family's home or large-scale as with air raid bombing.
Her characters respond to death in various ways, both literal and symbolic.
The novel contains a host of characters who symbolize these various responses to death, but it's organized around Natalia and her grandfather, who are both doctors.
Like the tiger that serves as the central symbol, Obreht has created a mesmerizing novel filled with horrible, beautiful force.
I think it's interesting to look at the literature coming out now that has to do with building a mythology.
Is it because of the incredible works of people like Angela Carter, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Italo Calvino and others who have influenced so strongly this generation?
Novels like this seem to be a rebellion to the John Updikes and Raymond Carvers of literature.
I happen to love the myth-making, but then I am a part of this generation.
The myths here are generated from a grandfather to his granddaughter.
در این جستجوها، به نسخه ی کهن «کتاب جنگل»‌ می‌رسد، که همیشه همراه پدربزرگش بود، و طی‌ سال‌های گذشته، بارها داستان‌هایش را برایش خوانده بود؛ داستان مرد فناناپذیر و داستان‌های دیگر.
در بین همه ی آن‌ها داستانی ست، که پدربزرگش هرگز برایش تعریف نکرده‌ بود؛ داستان ِ افسانه ی همسر ببر ...؛ رئالیسم جادویی البته به باور منتقدان، این نویسنده بنیانگذار نوعی رئالیسم جادویی نو هستند.
Let me mention immediately that those readers who enjoy fantasy novels will enjoy this more than I did.
The events are so fantastical that I cannot classify this as a book of magical realism, but rather fantasy!
In addition, Téa Obreht shocks the reader with gruesome events.
The author chose to not use real names of cities in the Balkans, although one can guess that it takes place at the Croatian / Bosnian border or perhaps Belgrade, Serbia.
Past events are told as stories that have a fantastical character.
.Perhaps one mist enjoy books of fantasy to enjoy this novel.
"When your fight has purpose--to free you from something, to interfere on behalf of the innocent--it has the hope of finality.
When the fight is about unraveling-- when it is about your name, the places to which your blood is anchored, the attachment of your name to some landmark or event--there is nothing but that, and the long, slow progression of people who feed on it and are fed it, meticulously, by the ones who come before them.
Then the fight is endless, and comes in waves and waves, but always retains its capacity to surprise those who hope against it." p.283
When I finished The Tiger's Wife by Tia Obrecht, I realized that this read is not the one I expected.
One of the stories that is so memorable for the reader is that of the tiger's wife, a deaf-mute woman whose very existence evokes superstition among the village people.
The other is that of the mora or deathless man whose encounters highlight her grandfather's life and whom, she, too, gets to meet.
If you expected an adventure tale skip this one but if you want one to read, muse about life and death and the tales therein this is a read for you.
In the book, Grandma's obsession with other details, such as not doing laundry etc, seems a little overblown, especially since it later gets revealed that this character is actually Muslim, so the deaths of her parents and cousins would not have involved such rituals in her hometown, as the narrator mentions.
CHARACTERS and PLOT: The book is narrated by a young doctor Natalia, who we get to know through her fearless search for clues surrounding her grandfather's death, and some earlier memories that are mostly defined by her aspiration for proper medical education in her troubled hometown.
Despite the university education, the medical degrees, the kind hearted motives of grandfather and granddaughter, the proven science of healing, no one can stop the destructive myth making behind the fear and grief caused by Death.
This book reveals how the extreme human fear of meaningless death causes sad, to me, struggles of the mind for cause and effect in typical brain pathways throughout history, as well as how the interplay of community, the past and survival of the group means more than individual truth or reality.
This explains his final journey, but also those of some of the other characters.The effect of war also demonstrates people’s desire to believe: “when confounded by the extremes of life – whether good or bad – people would turn first to superstition to find meaning, to stitch together unconnected events… No matter how great the secret, how imperative absolute silence, someone would always feel the urge to confess, and an unleashed secret was a terrible force.”DEATHThere is a LOT of death, much of it strange: the Deathless Man, Luka dead/missing, exhuming a body in a vineyard, the mystery of grandfather's death, Darisa's taxidermy and (separately!) his epileptic sister.
Obrecht interweaves local Eastern European legends throughout the book helping to explicate the parts that take place currently.
“Crossroads are where the paths of life meet, where life changes.””The Tiger of the title is left to starve after war breaks out and destroys the zoo and most of the surrounding town.
Her brutal husband hates the tiger and the care she gives it.
Did the Tiger eat him?
Did his mistreated wife murder and bury him?
Somehow the wife finds herself pregnant.
People take sides and another legend is born.Obrecht’s writing is clean and even a little stark.
It is really really good.When Obreht's name was announced on the New Yorker's '20 under 40' list, a lot of people complained about it.
But even if she was, what does that have to do with her writing?), 2) that she didn't have enough published work (no novels yet, only short stories), or 3) that she was a token 'young person' on the list.
She might be the most talented writer of the whole NYer list.I could describe the book or give you a plot synopsis, but you can read that on the book jacket.
I'm still not even sure what I just read-- I'm still a little confused and have questions, but don't think I care enough to ponder them.Natalia is a young Doctor off to help vaccinate the children in war stricken part of the Balkans.
This novel weaves these two storylines together creating legends and lore that Natalia has to sift through to come to terms with what happened to her grandfather.
I was bored almost throughout the entire novel.
The legends aspect was interesting but quickly lost its luster, I did appreciate the Jungle Book references weaved throughout.
At the end of the novel, I have to ask myself what was the point?
There just wasn't enough there in the beginning chapters to hook me in, but I kept reading anyway because of the praises for this book.
I kept thinking, am I not getting something here?
I enjoyed reading about the origins of all of the characters that had something to do with the protagonist's grandfather.
On the other hand, I don't think that we're allowed to really get to know the protagonist either.
Overall, I thought the book would be better based on the reviews and when I finished it, I felt cheated.
The book is OK, but it definitely doesn't live up to its reviews.
I made it through almost 3 of 9 discs of the audio, and every time I turned it back on, I immediately found myself getting annoyed and frustrated.
I turn on this audiobook, and then I hear the narration, and 2 seconds later I want to rip out my car CD player in a Hulk-like rage.
The Grandfather's Deathless Man story was good, but his part was read by someone with talent.
I wanted some variation to her tone, some TEXTURE to the reading...
something to give some personality to this woman who is telling this story.
I wanted to like this.
Obreht does this on purpose to disassociate story from place, since so much of the turmoil in that area of the world is caused by family name endings and minor differences.The story is about two generations of doctors in a family - the grandfather and the granddaughter, and as the story starts, the grandfather has just passed away.
I saw one review that thought this was a misstep, but to me it was a reminder that while this is written in the present day, these places are not the same as what I as the reader know.
Natalia's efforts to accept her grandfather's death and to recover his belongings bring about powerful memories of stories her grandfather told of his childhood and the fables his village kept alive through generations of invasion, war and deprivation.Obreht employs the classical allegory of beast - an anthropomorphized tiger escaped from a zoo in 1941- vs.
But not every man is evil; the tiger's wife and the young boy who loves her - the young boy who would one day become Natalia's grandfather - represent hope, survival, and compassion.
When our protagonist Natalia describes the uses of rakija to bring down a fever I was transported back to my childhood bedroom and the eye-stinging stench of rakija-soaked towels forcibly pressed to my forehead."The little girl was looking at me without fear or deference, and I found myself coming into the room, taking a few steps on the balls of my feet.
From her grandfather's mysterious passing in the opening pages to "The deathless man" - people die throughout this book.
"The story of this war - dates, names, who started it, why - that belongs to everyone......but something like this - this is yours.
Perhaps that's because there is little to no character development,- I don't know what this story is "about.".
If any of those are correct, then I'd be sadly disappointed with their development,- I understand the author's desire not to overstate matters and allow the reader to fill in the gaps.
But then you come to find that these are hardly integrated at all into the metanarrative -- making me feel like I've wasted my time on back stories that do not matter.- I was hoping that the end of the book would redeem the rest.
I requested it from LTER after reading two stories by Téa Obreht in The New Yorker, one of which turns out to have been an excerpt from this book.
On this frame, Obreht builds layer upon layer of stories, stories told to Natalia through the years by her grandfather, stories that explain everything about his life and, she comes to believe, about his death.
The first story takes place during an earlier war, when Natalia's grandfather was a young boy, and a tiger, freed from the city zoo by German bombs, makes its way to her grandfather's village.
Obreht’s approach is a bit more straightforward for the reader (without Foer’s various filters) but just as charming.Her narrator’s discoveries about her grandfather centre around two myths: the tiger’s wife and the deathless man.
(The most memorable image from the novel is one of its most earthy: Natalia’s school science teacher brings in a pair of lungs for them to dissect, drops them in the dirt, and has to reinflate them with a straw.)It seems as if myth is going to enter into Natalia’s real life when she is guarding the heart of the unearthed body and its attendant grave gifts are taken by a mysterious figure she mistakes for the deathless man; even though there is a mundane explanation for his appearance, I don’t get the impression that Obreht is out to dismantle superstitions.
Sure, it’s about a relationship between Natalia and her grandfather, and then there’s the mythology of the deathless man and the tiger’s wife—where the novel gets its namesake—(we’re on a roll now) and I enjoyed the way THE JUNGLE BOOK was used in the story, but after that, I’ve got nothing.
Loads and loads of nothing, and it sort of all tied together, but not really.If you love beautiful prose and descriptions that’ll make your eyes pop, then this book is for you, but if it’s a coherent story that all fits together nicely you’re looking for, you may want to look elsewhere.
Only got about a third of the way through this book. I just could not care about the main character, though I did enjoy the one section I read narrated by the main character's grandfather. Mostly, I found my attention kept wandering as I listened to this, and minutes would go by before I'd realize I had missed chunks of story. And I just wasn't interested in going backwards to relisten to minutes I'd miss. So, I guess the author just hadn't engaged my interest. So, chucking this book back to the library.
Ne zamandır okumak istiyordum bu kitabı.
Ve aslında ne zamandır da okuyordum :) Kolay bir okuma deneyimi olmadı benim için.
Yine de (biraz zorlayarak da olsa) sonuna vardığımda elde ettiğim sonuçtan oldukça memnunum.Çok sevdiği büyükbabasının ölüm haberini, evinden uzaktayken alan Natalia’nın birkaç gün boyunca yaşadıklarını okuyoruz.
Aslında “yaşadıklarını okuyoruz” demek eksik kalır, çoğunlukla anımsayışlarını, özleyişlerini ve daha birçok şeyi yan hikayeler halinde okuyoruz.
Bu yan hikayeler, asıl hikayenin çok önüne geçmiş durumda; ancak o kadar güzeller ki, benim gibi “ana hikayeye takıntılı” sayılabilecek birisini bile mest ettiğini söyleyebilirim.
Natalia’nın çocukluğundaki olaylarla başlayan hikayeler, çok farklı zamanlara ve mekanlara uzanıyor.
It is always interesting to read the first-time novelist who is already highly regarded as a story writer.
Is s/he able to make the transition to the long form?
All in all, they make up an impressive set.However, when I closed the cover for the last time, I was not fully satisfied.
I wished that Ms. Obreht had spent less time trying to make her narrator Natalia (many times implausibly) try to explain and fit the stories together, and more time exploring the depths of her characters.
I would have felt greater satisfaction if I had learned more about her, her mother and grandmother, her long-time friend Zora and their work together.
It doesn’t matter really, the point is that the animosity that led to the bloodshed of the 90’s (and back through history, ad nauseam) is still smoldering just below the surface of a life seemingly restored to normalcy.This book has an interesting texture, juxtaposing the past and the present, the mythical and the mundane.
I enjoyed the way Obreht establishes a character in the reader’s mind, and then proceeds to reveal a past that is at odds with what we think we know of them.
The author is a pessimist about human nature, but seems ready to acknowledge that each of us is the product of circumstances beyond our control.
an interesting read with some very good character sketches and a twisted timeline, jumping backward and forward and from one story into another. Beautiful prose, but for me it was slightly too fascinated with the macabre.I wonder if the supernatural elements were really necessary to the story the author was trying to tell. I also wonder if the short story format isn't more proper for Obreht.As a full novel, it seems insufficient to write a book about how life is pointless
