https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5843948-the-land-of-terror
While there are some exciting set pieces (including the classic situation where a sidekick is trapped in a chamber slowly filling with water), it feels strange that Savage keeps returning there.Things pick up when Savage and his friends finally end up at the Land of Terror (that's actually the name used for the island in the text).
I suspect most readers paying a modicum of attention to the story will pick up on it.One issue I noticed in the first story returns in the second as well: Doc Savage has too many friends.
The formula is already in place as a criminal has a fantastic device (this one if a mist that dissolves matter), is planning a series of crimes and Doc and his friends go into action to stop him.As a pulp novel, the writing is quick, a bit clumsy and suffers from trying for a breathless pace, but often seems clumsy and definitely overwrought.
The plot moves at a brisk pace, with a lot of action, fun ideas, and a spotlight on Doc Savage himself, who is one of the first Super-heroes.
The search for a mysterious villain called Kar and the source of his deadly invention, the smoke of eternity, leads Doc Savage and his crew to a South Seas island so lost in time that dinosaurs still roam the place. There was something about the plot that I figured out early on, but I won't give it away. A fun read.
A fun, action-packed pulp novel that's not without its flaws.
It's kinda hard to believe Doc Savage doesn't figure out who the villain is earlier in the book, for one thing.
Then there's Doc's five companions.
(But then, Savage seems to have been a prototype superhero.) Doc is so superior that after coming out of lake we're told the water does not linger in his hair or on his skin.
(!?!) On the other hand, his skin does glisten with sweat later on...
:T Overall, it's best to ignore the flaws and just enjoy the adventure.
5 for nostalgia. The second DS novel written and it shows. Robeson was still establishing the characters personalities, and while the basics are there they are still different. Doc is more ready and willing to take a life here and demonstrates a little more personality. No great mystery to the ID of the villain either, as it is pretty obvious. Fun to read either way though.
Good Doc Savage adventure read in 1975.
I knew who Kar was from the get go. Descriptions of dinosaurs were pretty interesting. Doc Savage was vicious in this book. And what happened to the pig?
The first Doc Savage story appeared in 1933 and the series ran in pulp and later digest format into 1949.
The characterizations were far richer than was common for the pulps; his five associates and their sometimes-auxiliary, Doc's cousin Pat, and the pets Chemistry and Habeas Corpus, all had very distinctive characteristics and their byplay was frequently more entertaining that the current adventure-of-the-month.
The settings were also fascinating: Doc's Fortress of Solitude, the Hidalgo Trading Company (which served as a front for his armada of vehicles), and especially the mysterious 86th floor headquarters all became familiar haunts to the reader, and the far-flung adventures took the intrepid band to exotic and richly-described locations all over the world.
The Doc Savage books have always been my favorite entertainments...
Let's face it...most pulp fiction was not great literature.
And serial literature is less likely to be great.
If you're looking for that in Doc Savage...you're looking in the wrong place.
This was the second published Doc super-saga.
As a publisher, every issue of Doc Savage was likely someone's first issue.
And as this was very early on the characters are still settling in to their roles.
This is a significantly more bloodthirsty Doc than we'll see in times to come.
Every time that someone "ejaculates" an excited utterance...there is probably going to have to be a titter.
It's early on.
In the story Doc and his motley crew end up on Terror Island, which is inhabited by dinosaurs.
Also the continued worship of the super human Doc Savage is distracting and gets annoying due to its repetition.Maybe if they had gone instead to Monster Island where Godzilla, Gamera, Godzuki, etc.
Doc and Godzilla could have bonded and then ganged up on Kar. It might have created a better story and ending...The original cover for The Land of Terror from the Doc Savage magazine in someways is better than the book's cover (e.g. the cover can be found by web search).
I've been a fan of Doc Savage for many years, but I've only read a smattering of the novels before now.
Recently, however, I came into possession of a nearly complete set of the Bantam paperback reprints, which not only gives me a chance to fill in the gaps, but to read the stories in their original publication order (which Bantam's numbering does not follow at all -- this book, #8 in Bantam's series, was originally the second issue of the mag).I'm finding these early stories to be very rough-edged.
The characters don't have all their mannerisms set yet, the pacing isn't quite there, and the scene-writing and dialogue are frequently stilted, even by Doc Savage standards.
There are no anesthetic "mercy bullets" in Doc's guns yet, just lead.
From April 1933, this second Doc Savage story is rough and unpolished as a chunk of concrete.
there's frickin' dinosaurs!Doc and the boys eventually find themselves at a hidden island near New Zealand that, cloaked by cloud-cover, teems with reptilian mostrosities.
Fun as hell, though it takes wading through some woody prose to get there."The Land of Terror" has a special place in my heart because it was the first Doc Savage novel I ever read, my 15-year-old eyes bugging out when I saw those dinosaurs on the book rack.
Random thoughts on this book:This is actually the second Doc book ever written and it shows in that Robeson / Dent is still finding his way.
For me, the most interesting aspect of this book is that Doc is practically a murdering machine.
Probably the most interesting scientific aspect is when Doc muses over the splitting of the atom, something that wouldn't actually occur for more than another decade.While certainly a fast book to read, I can't say it was very exceptional in any way.
Plenty of better Doc adventures out there.
The story is unusual in that Doc Savage is portrayed as this cold-blooded vigilante who is killing criminals, unlike later stories where he does his best to avoid directly being responsible for their deaths.
He also uses guns quite a lot, again, unlike later stories where he actually eschews the use of weapons, feeling they make one too reliant on them.
The story also feels as though one of the other house Kenneth Robesons wrote it and not Lester Dent, but I didn't research it to know for sure.
The Land of Terror isn't one of Dent's best Doc Savage novels, but it is certainly strange enough to warrant a reading.
The story, involving pirate ships, dinosaurs, prehistoric beavers, a villain named Kar, and Kar's mysterious "Smoke of Eternity"--which has the power to dissolve any known matter save a rare metal substance--is about as insane as it sounds.
True to form, Dent chooses to set the action of the first half of the novel in New York City before transferring the setting to the perilous Thunder Island, where evolution never took hold.
It isn't smart, it isn't even surprising, it's exactly what you'd expect a Doc Savage novel to be.
In the second Savage book, released in April,1933, Doc avenges the death of one of his mentors. Lester Dent, writing under the name Kenneth Robeson, starts really fleshing out the characters of Doc, Renny, Monk, Ham, Johnny and Long Tom. The amazing thing was that even though I hadn't read this one in many years, I remembered who the villain was almost from the first page. A really ripping yarn!
Of all the pulp era heroes few stand out above the crowd, Doc Savage is one of these. With his 5 aides and cousin he adventures across the world. Fighting weird menaces, master criminals and evil scientists Doc and the Fab 5 never let you down for a great read. These stories have all you need; fast paced action, weird mystery, and some humor as the aides spat with each other. My highest recommendation.
Excellent early Doc Savage adventure. Doc is a bit more violent (and vengeful) in these early adventures than he was later; and as other reviewers have noted, the revelation of the villain's identity at the end isn't really much of a surprise. Still, this is an enjoyable yarn - complete with dinosaurs!
Una historia llena de acción de Doc Savage y su equipo de bienhechores. Es la primera de la saga que leo y es de ese tipo de pulp (literatura popular) directo, divertido y sin demasiadas pretensiones. Tiene elementos fantásticos y de ciencia ficción, un poco de humor, malos malísimos, héroes y sorpresas, algunas más previsibles que otras. Recomendable para pasarlo un buen rato.
I've read two of these now, and there are some redeeming qualities, but the flaws are too much for me to really enjoy Doc Savage, even as light entertainment.The biggest let down is the way the there's no tension in the plot. Most minor conflicts are solved right after they are introduced.
Classic Doc Savage pulp action! I love how it is a story that features dinosaurs and the dinosaurs don't even show up until two-thirds in!Doc isn't especially conservation-minded regarding the eponymous "Land of Terror" but the villain bit the dust about how I expected.
My four star rating for this book is hopelessly nostalgia-laden. I loved the Doc Savage titles when I was a kid, and I must have re-read every one I owned about 100 times. Fantastic page-turners, and a wonderful escape for anyone who craves high-adventure.
Well, Lester Dent couldn't nail as nailed as this. A new chemical element capable of dissolving everything? Check. A land where time stopped? Check. FREAKING DINOSSAURS? Check. Renny riding a tryceratops? CHECK. Man, this one got it all.Pulp hardly gets better than this.
Of course, Originally published in April of 1933, this is actually book #2 of Doc Savage, not #8.
In the tradition of Edgar Rice Burroughs.
read 07.26.84
Loved the story.
reread this SOMETIME in 2011
Doc Savage fights dinosaurs!What more do you need to know?
As usual, a little slow to get started, but once the adventure really gets started, it holds your interest.
