https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25238085-the-reminiscences-of-a-marine
Lejeune is an autobiography of a United States Marine and 13th Commandant.
In his address as Commandant of the Marine Corps (1921), he notes that Marines have been fighting for America (or American interests*) 90 of America's 146 years.
Lejeune was instrumental in transitioning the Marines from naval infantry into a professional fighting force, although still under the navy.
Lejeune was a quiet professional who served two terms as Commandant of the Marine Corps.
He retired on on the 154th Marine Corps Birthday (1929) and accepted a position as superintendent of Virginia Military Institute.
I'd like to thank Sapere Books for the opportunity to review this book.This was simply not to my taste.
It reminds me of Robinson Crusoe, when basically every day is the same entry in his journal: I walked the beach; I ate some fruit; I built a shelter, etc.
Well this is basically the same thing except on a battleship...
or a cruiser.
I'm not certain what I expected considering he was such an early Marine.
He just had no flair for the dramatic so it was a bit mundane.
Anyone interested in the early days of the USMC this is probably a go-to book.
Lejeune's description of a hurricane in Samoa in 1889 is incredible and, in addition to meeting with practically every significant American military leader of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, he also encountered a diverse group of celebrities ranging from a sickly Robert Louis Stevenson to a young and healthy Franklin Roosevelt to the beautiful Elsie Janis ("the sweetheart of the AEF").A good portion of the book is devoted to his service during the First World War. Since he refers to that conflict as "the purest and most self-sacrificing war in the history of mankind" you should not expect a scathing denunciation of Allied military tactics.
The only thing I knew about him was the name – there are many things in the Marine Corps named LeJeune, including one of the main training camps.
He seemed to be always on the peripheral of the fighting up to WWI, and he made sure he got a front-line command during the year of active Marine duty.
He was a kind leader - focusing on the needs of the men and working to minimize injuries.The book is long - lots of detail of his entire life, but it's well written for a amateur writer and easy to read and follow.
LeJeune’s story of his childhood, growing up in the turbulent years immediately after the Civil War in reconstruction-era Louisiana, and his career, first as a naval officer and finally as a U.S. Marine.LeJeune’s account, while intensely personal, also highlights many of the pivotal events of world and American history of the period; notably the Spanish-American War, the period of heavy American involvement in Latin America, China, and the Philippines; and the horrific trench warfare of World War I in Europe.
Best Military Biography I Ever ReadEvery American should read this book.
It gives a first-hand telling of what it took to become a leader of leaders of Marines.
No showboating.
No self pity for sacrifices he made.
But tales of desire to serve and the determination to provide insights into the man who was determined to serve his country.
He tells on his unyielding was to serve where his talents and visions could yield greatest benefit.The World War experiences of the Marines he led are non stop.
But so were the battles the men in the trenches fought.This is a fascinating book.
I was happy to find this book because the name of the author intrigued me.
Let's face it, only a US Marine would know why the East Coast training facility is named Camp Lejeune, and I never thought to ask any of the deputies or even my grandson.
Yeah, I'm a history geek.
It starts out with a bit of family history, then ramps up after college when he joins the Corps, serves in the Spanish American War, and really gets tough during WWI.
Besides being a history, it is also clearly a model for an effective leader, and needs to be read by military officers as well as those in private industry.
Good info but really dry at timesHe wrote of his experiences very well but to much info but he wanted to give credit to those who deserved it rightfully so. I'm glad he took the time to record the events as he saw them and he researched well. I now know the history of Marines in ww1..
Inspiring personal account Clearly a figure who guided the development of the Marines during the early formative days leading up to and including World War I. Hindered by the absence of maps to accompany the description of engagements in France by the military units.
Great read A man of real character and integrity encapulates important period. In growth of our Corps, Gen Lejuene was responsible for incinitiating policies and plans advancing our Corps forward May GOD BE with you General.
A legend in his own time, thoughtful, honorable, courageous, eI enjoyed this man and this book. Would to GOD we had more men of this calibre in our time. You will not regret reading this book.
Outstanding personal history of WW1 battles. I never knew I would learn so much from this book. I could not put it down it was s fascinating.
Great ! I gave it 4 stars .. Because of a few long chapters. But a great story of historical man and service to his country.
Semper FiGreat read , I learned a lot About the Marine Corps of WW I and great Marine. Set the standards we try to stand up to.
Fellow marineIt was a great look into one of the Marine Corps great generals. He has been a hero of mine for years.
This is General John A. Lejeune's autobiography. It was a very good book. He was a very good man. He got along with Army and Navy officers and was able to do a lot of good for the Marine Corps. He travelled to a lot of different places and saw a lot of different things. He was one of the greatest Marines ever.
