https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84351.The_Secret_History_of_the_Pink_Carnation
I feel compelled to defend why I read this book in the first place – which is never good.
If I am going to be honest, it came down to these two points:1) I already had plans to attend an event with author, Tasha Alexander.
I generally dislike “combo” events as I feel obligated to read both authors.
(I almost felt bad for Tasha, because Lauren talked so fast and abundantly that Tasha had trouble getting a word in.) And as normal, meeting the author helped me better understand their book.
Girly author = girly book.
And they do dumbass things, like Lord Richard and Amy both ending up in the bad guy's room for secret spy reasons and instead of being quiet and stealthy and getting in and out fast...they make out on the bed and then stand around shouting at each other until the bad guy and his guards surround them.
AND she was one of those heroines who despite being a privileged, sheltered girl has no concern for propriety at all and seems to willfully try to ruin her reputation every opportunity she gets, despite the fact that at the time a ruined reputation was actually A Serious Business that could shame not only her but ALSO her family (including her cousins).
I would rather like my two hours back that I spent on this book. It's not that it was bad, rather, it had an intriguing premise, but the past/future aspects were poorly merged, the part of the story set in present day was absolutely unsatisfying and the Georgian smut felt out of place, perhaps because of the highly formal nature she tried to give the characters.The lesson to be learned there is you can't do Pride and Prejudice with an R rating.
☺a) b) [image error]c)d)[image error]★★★★✩ This is a review of the audiobook, narrated by Kate Reading, who did a wonderful job on this charming intro to the Pink Carnation series.
I didn’t really mind being pulled back to Eloise’s story in the present day, as I quite liked it.
Did I say I didn’t mind the interruption to present day?
By that point I was deep into the intrigue of the many mistaken identities of a spy with the Nom de Plume of “The Purple Gentian,” the mystery of who was going to be “The Pink Carnation,” and the witty calamity that ensues when two young people are headed irrevocably toward romance.
Instead I got something that fell far short of all of those.Instead of sparkling wit of Heyer and the mannered prose of Austen, I got a by the numbers, derivative, cliche historical romance novel that (weirdly) also wanted to be modern chick lit and a rollicking spy adventure as well.The heroine Amy is a firm and permanent resident of the too stupid to live category.
Toward the end of the novel the scene where Richard's family shows up and wants to meet Amy was a entertaining.But even with those one or two positive things, the book overall was still a big disappointment.I can't recommend.
Okay, this book started out so cute!
It was just a fun read.
In hind sight, although it was cute, it also was very shallow to begin with.
I HATE it when fun books turn out to be dirty when you're already half way through.
Does anyone know if there's a website out there that gives tv/movie type ratings for books?
For me reading is sometimes way more graphic than seeing something in a movie.
If there isn't a website like that out there, would you check a monitoring system like that before you read a book?
If you go into this expecting historical fiction with Napoleonic spy action, you’re likely to be disappointed.
Confirming its status as a Romance series is the fact that the main characters change in each book.It's also very light on historical accuracy, but that didn't stop me from having fun reading it.
It also looks like there will be a romance in her future.
I do intend to continue reading when I’m in the mood for something silly, light and fluffy, with a bit of derring-do in the court of Napoleon.
I'm not saying that the settings aren't accurate enough and I couldn't catch Ms Willig out in any particular, but the tendency of the 1803 characters to lapse into decidedly 21st century speech with a chick lit flavor (and display some very un-1803 attitudes to sex and marriage) ensured I was kept well aware that this was pure historical-ish fantasy.
And great fun at that, strangely enough, even though I had to work hard to keep from getting steamed up about the adverbs.
The thing that made me the most angry is that at the back of the book the author has a "historical note" where she talks about this garbage in light of its place in the "historical fiction" genre.
The Scarlet Letter is historical fiction.
Cold Mountain is historical fiction.
Mentioning Napoleon and the year 1803 does not make a book historical fiction.
It makes it a crappy romance novel that mentions Napoleon and the year 1803.
Oh and yes, that is how he's rescued, and no, I don't even care that I just gave away a spoiler; hopefully it will deter you from reading the book yourself.
Don't be fooled by the cover: this book is a romance novel pretending to be historical fiction.
I kept thinking I had missed something and the rower had left the boat, but no).
I kept thinking there must be more to the characters (because I was duped by the cover!), but they really are cookie-cutter romance heroes.
I think the idea of this book is fun, and I've read that the next one is better than this, so I may give it a try (with plenty of skipping).
The identity of the Pink Carnation was in no way surprising, too.
A combination of Julia Quinn's wit, and C.S. Harris and Deanna Raybourn's sleuth story talent all rolled up with what is obviously, and originally 100% Lauren Willig...The characters we're real, perfectly flawed and relatable as well as genuinely lovable.
or in this case the 'who-is it' theme managed to keep me guessing atleast till the half way point..
(Which I must add, is not often accomplished)..It's a light hearted, fun loving, easy read with the feel of a more epic story.
In other words its the perfect combination of mystery, romance, and witty dialouge for any historical romance fan who craves a little more length to their reads.
This was a fun, very light hearted and not at all serious read. It's full of ridiculous and ludicrous situations and happenings. If you know that and are in the mood for it, you should enjoy it. There were parts I really enjoyed and also times where I found myself bored. I did however like the way the book ended with Eloise and Colin. Definitely bodes for another adventure. I also like the way the girl in modern day is reading the story of the past which you as the reader delve into. The concept is fun.
Eloise Kelly is a klutzy, directionally challenged graduate student in history (not like anybody I know) who is trying to discover the identity of the Pink Carnation, a spy in the mode of the Scarlet Pimpernel.
When Mrs. Selwick-Alderly grants her access to a box full of family papers, letters and journals dating from the early 19th century, Eloise discovers the feisty and romantic Amy Balcourt, a wannabe spy in Napoleonic France.
Amy's story is the one which receives the full treatment here; to find out what happens to Eloise, I suspect we may need to read the other books in the series (I believe there may be three or four).
The author combines historical fiction with fun chick lit, mostly focusing on Amy's romance with the Purple Gentian.
Some comments I thought went way overboard included, "Jane Austen would scream, you'd have to be braindead to like this, when I think of this book I throw up a little in my mouth, and my favorite, "chick lit reflects poorly on women's literature, why isn't poorly written books written by men called dude's lit." Of course I had to reply back to some of these reviews with my own comments...
If you don't expect Jane Austen or a historical book full of facts and dates, then I don't think you'll be disappointed.
Bored, bored, bored! 25%
If it walks like a duck and talks like a duck it must be a duck, right?
But then the historical bits began growing on me chapter by chapter and as soon as the Purple Gentian kissed Amy on the window seat, I was enthralled and tore threw the rest of the novel as quickly as real life allowed.
You may also like this book if……you consider back and forth banter between the hero and heroine foreplay.
…you like sex… ...and don’t mind reading about it.…you’ve ever fantasized about doing it with a masked man whose identity you weren’t too clear on.
A côté également nous avons Jane la pondéré, Jane la lucide, Jane un des rare personnages dans l’histoire à posséder un cerveau et à savoir s’en servir et bien sûr n’oublions pas Miss Gwenn sorte d’amazone qui fait même peur à Napoléon lui-même.Au début j’ai été un peu déstabilisée par la profusion de détails et toutes les descriptions que l’auteur nous fait pour chaque scène.
We mostly follow the dense Amy about as she desperately but naively tries to enter the world of espionage.
Both she and her love interest were pretty forgettable to me, as was Eleanor, or whatever her names was, who was a guide through the modern frame of the novel as she tries to discover the identity of the Pink Carnation through what seem to be the most bizarrely detailed accounts in diaries and letters.
The book didn't get better until the author proved to me that she had some modicum of sense.
I picked up this book because I wanted to read something with no murders in it, and besides, Napoleonic spy capers with women!
WRONG!" That, I'm pretty sure, was when Amy, the nauseating heroine of the historical bits, hears the Purple Gentian reference something she has only told to his alter ego, Richard, and decides that it MUST mean that he's her true love, fated to be with her.
But since I DID get conned into reading a Regency romance, it did give me an opportunity to have a think about the genre.
All of this makes her a truly hapless sight when so goes to interview a descendant of the Purple Gentian (a spy that inspired our Carnation).Her host is a nice old woman and immediately gives Eloise access to private family papers.And that's where the book goes downhill.Eloise is apparently reading journals and letters, but that's not what readers see.
Both the size of the book--a trade paperback--and the period artwork cover would seem to imply that it is more than a genre romance, but that's simply not the case.I will admit that I enjoyed Amy & Richard's story.
It was a good written historical romance, rather for young adults and chick-lit, with a little adventure (mystery).
I have enjoyed it.Nonetheless, I can't say I can't wait to read another book of series.
I prefer more realistic historical romances.
Here, there were too many too unrealistic scenes (e.g. a love scene on the boat in the Paris, or how they worked as spies).The best part was a humor.
But, when I want a witty historical romance, not necessary very realistic, I will pick Clare Darcy, Joan Smith, Marion Chesney or of course Georgette Heyer.
As for this kind of adventure I will rather pick Emmuska Orczy or Patricia Veryan.
The first in Lauren Willig's Pink Carnation series.
I found this gem in the library.
My first by this author and coincidentally the author's first.
I was pleasantly pleased with it.
I wasn't sure I would be when I opened the first page.
I'm not a fan of 1st person POV but I kept on and realized the whole book is not written that way and I came to enjoy the parts that were.
She is granted access to papers that has her uncovering the identity of the Pink Carnation.
I will be rushing back to the library and seeing if they have the next in the series and crying if they don't.
La reseña en el bloghttp://alacamaconunlibro.blogspot.com...
3.5* for this audiobook edition.I found during this reread via audiobook that I didn't like it as much as I had the first time around. The contemporary sections were fine but Aimee struck me as silly and I was more aware of the aspects that I feel were anachronistic. Oh well... it was still mostly fun.
4.5
I love the Scarlet Pimpernel and Willig has taken the foundation laid by Baroness Orczy and expanded it, creating the Purple Gentian and the Pink Carnation. Two stories in one, the book follows modern day scholar Eloise who is determined to unmask the Pink Carnation as well as Amy, a woman who lived in the time of Napoleon who seeks to join the League of the Purple Gentian. Part historical novel, part romance, and part adventure, this was a surprisingly good read. I will definitely be picking up the sequel.
I guess I liked this book enough to finish it, but there are some things that bothered me about this book enough that I couldn't give it three stars. It could possibly be that I simply don't like explicit romance novels. The mystery is what kept me reading past the lame descriptions of how men can't control themselves around women. Perhaps the author believes the modern fallacy that it's impossible to be chaste when you're in love. Or maybe I'm being prudish. Like I said, romance novels aren't my genre...
For Eloise Kelly, an American who's writing a thesis on the Pink Carnation, a legendary hero that helped saved the English from the French Guillotine along with the Scarlet Pimpernel and the Purple Gentian in the same league.
And when he unmasked himself, it was up to Amy and Jane to become the Pink Carnation.
While Amy fell in love and followed her heart to her greatest passion, she saved Richard and professed her true love for him...
leaving a surprise twist on who was the Pink Carnation's true identity for future adventures...
Perusing several historical fiction blogs, I was intrigued to learn that Lauren Willig has created a whole spin-off series from the original Pimpernel books by Baroness Orczy.The premise of the first book, The Secret History of the Pink Carnation, is that after Percy Blakeney retired, a young nobleman named Lord Richard Selwick–formerly part of the Pimpernel’s league–picked up where Percy left off.
An instant attraction springs up between Amy and Richard, but when she learns that he unpatriotically associates with the French regime for the purpose of studying Egyptian artifacts (his cover identity), she immediately and emphatically despises him.The remainder of the book is the story of Richard Selwick falling in love with Amy Balcourt as she falls in love with both him and with the Purple Gentian, unaware that they are the same person.
Özel sorgu odasından kaçış ve İsviçre altınlarının çalınması gibi iki kilit olay geçiştirilmese 5 yıldızı hak eden bir kitaptı.
