https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1635365.Watch_the_Wall_My_Darling
I was going to be clever and in my review compare the prospective of reading of this book between my young self and my fifty-year-older self.
When I was trying to reconstruct my reading history for Goodreads, Jane Aiken Hodge (JAH) was one of the first authors I pulled up, and WtW,MD one book that I remembered adoring.I am thrilled to say I have no reason to make fun of my twelve year old self.
I really needed a break after the books I've read this week, as much as I loved them.
Foolhardy, uncaring of the safety and reputation of others in his vain pursuit of glory, quite cruelly callous to Christina's obvious feelings for him, yet falling head over heels for her flighty, younger sister.
Christina, with her devotion to become housekeeper, nurse, savior, and even intrepid action-hero in a nest of snakes who neither deserve her attention nor do they like it, had me contemplating the empty-headed little sister as the more sympathetic character.Apart from these issues, there were long stretches of time in the book that were dreary and tedious, with little action, and uninteresting dialogue.
I cannot imagine my newly-minted adolescent self appreciated the author throwing so many impediments between the hero and the heroine, but I had less to compare it to then.
I appreciated the setting and the historical frame of the story, but am amazed how grudgingly she gave us any romantic pay-off.
Well written, as most books with the name "Aiken" are, must be in their DNA.
It is certainly better than most historical romantic suspense on the market.
I enjoyed it, but probably my 13-year old self was more easily pleased.
Glad to have found Jane Aiken Hodge on Kindle, and intend to keep reading and re-reading her this year.
Watch the Wall,My Darling was originally published in 1966. Should we judge books by their cover? I've heard we should not but I do anyway. This cover really drew me in. This is a suspenseful historical gothic romance. The suspense really built up for me and I wasn't sure what to expect in this darkly atmospheric book. Pub Date 23 Jan 2014 Thank you to NetGalley and Bloomsbury Reader for a review copy in exchange for my honest review.
My favorite JAH book. I first read this as a teenager and have read it several times since. The whole historical romance, spys and fear of "Boney" invading England are a favorite theme for me. Jane Aiken Hodge wrote so many good books, weaving real people and facts into her stories. She passed away in 2009, and I have read her books so often, I feel like I lost a friend, though I obviously never met her.
An historical romantic suspense with an eye catching title. A lot to enjoy about this novel, a dark, gloomy and isolated manor, smugglers, a heroine who is a strong and determined character and a dark and brooding hero.Found the story did lag in places and didn't really feel any spark between the main characters Chris and Ross. Felt the chemistry between them to be lacklustre at times. Remember reading the novel as a teenager and thoroughly enjoying it but found this novel to be a bit weaker over time with a second reading.
Although billed as a gothic, there really wasn't much of the gothic about this story set during the Napoleonic Wars.Better then average writing for this genre, but the story felt too modern to have taken place in the early 1800's, and I wasn't much impressed with the hero or the romance.OK overall. Hence the 2-stars. Would try more by Hodge to see if this book is just a one-off.
This book continually popped up in my also boughts, so I've been eyeing it for a couple of years.And, oh my, how delicious it was!
There's lots of midnight ramblings, a bullying grandfather, a silly French girl who nearly proves Ross's undoing, a neurotic mother, and a French spy.There are no supernatural overtones to this one, just a good old-fashioned historical romance set in the marshlands, with a wonderful, strong heroine who is most emphatically not TSTL and who is resourceful and fully capable of rescuing herself.
One of the most enjoyable books I've read this year, frankly, and quite a surprise.
Well it certainly wasn't a gothic romance (at all) the only thing dark about it was the house , always referred to as "The Dark House" but it turned out to be a pretty good read.
I love when the hero feels he's in love with someone else (on account of her beauty) then discovers there's no depth of character , and ends up truly caring for the woman that blends in with the wall (so to speak).
The 4 stars are mainly for the last quarter of the book.
As the story begins, Christina Tretton, a young American woman whose father has recently died, is returning to her family’s ancestral home, Tretteign Grange.
After encountering a gang of smugglers on the journey, Christina arrives at the Grange – also known as the Dark House – and is met by her Aunt Verity, her invalid grandfather and her handsome cousin, Ross.Settling into her new home, Christina quickly takes control of the management of the house and the servants.
Impressed with his granddaughter, old Mr Tretteign decides to change his will and leave the Grange to Christina – on the condition that she must marry either Ross or her other cousin, Richard.
A too-perfect heroine surrounded by two-dimensional cast of characters.
The reason is easlily explained.
When all other characters are self-centered, uncompetent, unreasonable and shrill, the only character who is not all that can't help but look god-like.
The element of intrigue is adequate, but the attempt on romantic front fails miserably.
First and foremost, I just don't see what Christina sees in Ross.
Second, the way that the author creates a competition for the hero's heart at very late in the story makes his intellect, judgment and loyalty even more questionable - not that they're remotely admirable in the first place.
This author was truly talented and I am so happy that her books have been brought out in ebook form to be forever cherished. This is gothic romance at the highest level.
I have read and re-read this book so many times that my copy has now fallen to pieces (does anyone know if its available as an ebook?)I fall in love with Ross every time. I want to be Christina.

This sets the stage for a fascinating tale of smuggling, ambiguous characters and relationships, and heroic courage on the part of Christina.I have been casting about for a couple of years to find SOMEONE whose writing style approaches the quality, verve, and piquancy of Georgette Heyer -- lo and behold, here is Jane Aiken Hodge.
I have already ordered two more of her books.
And the sense of place was outstanding -- I really felt the salt sea air and the marsh grasses underfoot.I found a couple of misspellings, but I'll fault the editors (not Hodge) ....
An old favorite from my childhood, this gothic romance has all of the usual trappings, a strong heroine, a dark and lonely mansion, a dark stranger with strong arms, and danger.Told with humor and a mild femininist slant, the story of American young lady Christina Tretton returning to Tretteign Grange, her family's ancestral seat in England, takes its title from a Kipling poem on smugglers.
And smugglers certainly appear throughout the novel, as do spies, as the novel is set in England during the Napoleonic Wars and almost all in the English country-side are prone to invasion-mad paranoia.
This is another book that I reread every couple of years.
Christina Tretton, a courageous and intelligent young woman who was brought up in the USA, returns to her family home in Sussex, during the time of the Napoleonic wars. She's caught up immediately in intrigue and danger, involving smuggling and more; she finds herself attracted to her cousin Ross, yet not sure how far she can trust him.Exciting, with people who I quickly cared about. Great for general social history too, and understanding a little more about this period in history, although the fictional subplots are the most significant in the book. Recommended to anyone who likes light historical novels.
--I guess that at least all those readers who complain about books with romances between first cousins will (view spoiler)[be relieved that Christina and Ross aren't actually related.
You never really have much of a chance to get to know Ross or understand why Christina instantly loves him, but this efficiently kills most of my interest in that romance...
(hide spoiler)]--"I've worked for it, and that's what makes you love something."--"It's been shill-I, shall-I long enough."  Huh!
I'd never heard/seen that version of it before this.--As if his wishy-washiness and (view spoiler)[temporary infatuation with Sophie weren't bad enough, Ross decides to up the ante by telling Christina that he has to help the smugglers who were just about to murder her!
DisappointedI was very excited about this book at the beginning but, I felt, as I read on, the story started falling apart. I don't know if the author has to have a certain amount of pages or what, but so many books I read seem to loosen and fall apart close to the second half; this one sooner than that. At that point, I just wanted it to be over. That's why I could only give it three stars.
If anyone is a fan of Poldark, they will probably really like this. It's mostly adventure with a romance on the back burner. There are smugglers, spies, family secrets, and so on. Set around the time of the Napoleonic Wars.
She's a solid writer and builds this Regency-era bit of Gothic silliness on solid research.
It's quite fun but completely preposterous—sort of a mad cross between "Jamaica Inn," "The Scarlet Pimpernel," "Cold Comfort Farm," and an old fashioned radio-era soap opera.I enjoyed it—smugglers, ruined abbeys, chases across the moors and marshes, crumbling mansion full of gloomy relatives and all, but it was very silly and without much substance.
Sort of like an ice cream sundae with absolutely everything imaginable piled on top of it until it threatens to collapse under the weight of whipped cream and maraschino cherries...
A romance/historical/adventure based in English history. Christina Tretton arrives from America to stay with her English relatives during Napoleon's threats of invasion. She arrives at night and is threatened by masked highwaymen before she reaches her destination. She finds that her cousins and aunt are unsettled, unhappy Tretteign Hall residents, existing under the thumb of her controlling grandfather.She arrives as a pauper and later reveals that she traveled to England to discover the circu
A romance/historical/adventure based in English history.
Christina Tretton arrives from America to stay with her English relatives during Napoleon's threats of invasion.
She finds that her cousins and aunt are unsettled, unhappy Tretteign Hall residents, existing under the thumb of her controlling grandfather.She arrives as a pauper and later reveals that she traveled to England to discover the circumstances of the Hall and actually is well-to-do.
Christina realizes that her cousins are playing parts in order to get along with their grandfather.
Who holds their allegiance - are they working for or against Napoleon?
Thank you goodreads! This book was a goodreads recommendation based on my favorites shelf. I had never heard of the book or the author. The library I checked it out from had only one copy in their system and it looks as if it hadn't been checked out for years!I ended up really liking the story. It came with smugglers; spies; kidnapping; gloomy, English, coastal weather; haunted, crumbling cloisters; humor; romance; and intrigue. Definitely a book I had a hard time putting down.
Good clean historical romanceVery well written, as good as this type of novel gets. The heroine is intelligent, strong, brave, and likeable. The hero is brave also, involved in exciting doings, and has a little angst going....not too much, just enough to make him romantic. What more could you want? Sit back and enjoy!
Maybe this was more of a 3.5 star book but either way, I enjoyed it!I thought it was going to be a suspenseful mystery and in that way I was dissapointed. However, the characters were so likeable that it made up for it.
This book stayed with me for years. I'd think back on it as I was riding by myself in Alaska at a hunting lodge. Me, the horse, the dog...and this book in my mind. Kept me company.I loved it. And the very tattered paperback is still on my shelf!
Not a bad book. Not a good book either.
An old manor, strong heroine, brooding hero, spies, intrigue and danger makes this book an interesting read.
Makes it sound like the beginning of a great romantic adventure, right?
I could have overlooked the constant reminder he doesn't feel anything for her, even the accusations of betrayal, but falling for her sister!?
Runs right back to him like the doormat she is!
And don't even get me started on the "hero"!I forced myself to finish this by reminding myself it's just a book and these people/events are not real nor do they affect my life!
I actually liked some of the book but everything just took a turn for the worst when I lost all respect for the hero!
I was rather disappointed in this book.
I liked the main character quite a bit - she was a logical, level-headed woman who didn't mope about or feel sorry for herself.
She had a fiery personality but she didn't argue unnecessarily with people and generally avoided conflict with even the most aggravating of characters (I'm looking at you, Mrs. Tretteign).
However, the plot didn't play out in the most engaging way.
The constant language - while generally mild - was also nettlesome and took me out of the story.
