https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/516065.The_Land_of_Far_Beyond
A classic retelling of John Bunyan’s The Pilgrim’s Progress, thought I never realised that at the time!Peter and his two sisters Anna and Patience must travel from the City of Turmoil to the City of Happiness in the Land of Far-Beyond, whilst having to carry heavy burdens of their bad deeds on their backs.This childhood book has really stuck with me, I remember liking the adversities that the group encounters on their journey.But the most striking aspect as I constantly re-read it was the cover illustration on my hardback copy, the picture of the heavy burdens completely fascinated me.
It's a children's bible - sort of :)No need to worry with the grown up religious books!Remembering this book from my childhood days!This book, the story, the characters have stayed with me.
This book is supposed to be a Christian allegory, something that totally went above my head when I read it first as a child.
I wondered whether the religious element would put me off this book and so, reread it.
The religious element is quite toned down as well.Blyton often goes for moralistic preaching in some of her standalone books, some of which I really find outdated and misogynist.
I might go as far as to say this is perhaps one of Blyton's best books, simply because everything does not come right for everyone in the end.
A very overtly religious story (obviously as based on The Pilgrim's Progress) and heavy-handed at times but still a great piece of British fantasy.
This book is about three children and a few grownups who travelled to the land of far beyond to get their burdens off their backs. I like this book and I think it's more suitable for children than the original version, which is full of old english and more difficult to understand. Jessica, age 9
I can’t wait to meet Enid Blyton in heaven!!!!
I read this book so many times to my two daughters when they were little girls. Think I'll begin reading it to my granddaughter.
Enid Blyton wrote this because she felt John Bunyan's 'The Pilgrim's Progress' might be too hard for children of her day to follow.
She says in her own introduction to the book that, "Now, in this book, I have written for you a kind of new Pilgrim's Progress, in my own words, and with my own quite different ideas.
It cannot really be compared with the old Pilgrim's Progress, but I thought you might like to know that it was this grand old book that gave me the idea of writing a completely new one for you".
Re-read in 2017 - read it countless times as a child.This was one of my favourite childhood books but it was out of print for years and only available second hand on Amazon UK for over £40.
However it was miraculously rereleased a couple of years ago and I was ecstatic but a little shy to read it again in case it didn't appeal to thirty yr old Sarah as much as 8 yr old Sarah - but I am happy to say it did.
This rating is based on what I remember thinking of it when I read it as a child.
I was nine or ten at the time, and my mother bought it for me when I went into hospital for a routine operation.
I read it while I was waiting to go into theatre, and finished it after I got home, while I was off school.
I think at the time, as a young reader, I appreciated the story and the messages it gave.
Overall, a good moral tale for youngsters, though I'm not sure I would think the same of it now.
In Bunyan's The Pilgrim's Progress, Christian travels from the City of Destruction to the Celestial City, carrying with him for part of the way the burden of his sins.
A boy named Peter and his two sisters, Anna and Patience, travel from the City of Turmoil to the City of Happiness in the Land of Far-Beyond, carrying the heavy burdens of their bad deeds on their backs.
The Pilgrim's Progress is concerned with Christian theology and characters debate issues such as the necessity of both good works and profession of faith in order to please God. Bunyan refers constantly to passages from the Bible and Blyton does too, although not so frequently.
Wanderer tells them that they must make a perilous journey to The Land of Far-Beyond, which is the only way for them to get rid of their burdens.So begins a big adventure.
Will they make it to The Land of Far-Beyond or not?I first read this when I was about 9 years old.
It's a Christian allegory based on Bunyan's "The Pilgrim's Progress" but obviously it's aimed at children so it's very simplistic.A few years ago I came across a copy at a market for 40p and thought I'd like to revisit it.
This is a re-telling of the "The Pilgrim's Progress." It is told in a more modern times. It has humor and I think the story is more relatable for children to read. It teaches many good morals and has some thought provoking content. There are also some helpful illustrations that help illustrate the events of the story.
I read so many Enid Blytons growing up, it amazes me that most Americans never heard of her. Perhaps the UK exported different culture in different directions. This was the one book that appealed to the adult in me.
A child's journey of learning life lessons, this book, written many years ago, is full of moral lessons. Good for grown ups too--as a refresher course....
This was a fantastic read-aloud book with to share with my 9 year old! Hard to find, but worth it. It is a re-telling of Pilgrim's Progress.
Found it very inspirational..... The right path may be tough but that the only way to live ... Gives beautifull leassons about right morals
the illustrations of the burdons the children are given, with the hands instead of straps, used to freak me out a bit and could be why this story has always stayed with me.
It was one of the most amazing books i have ever read when i was a kid :)
I read and re-read this story as a child. I absolutely loved it.
This was my favorite book when I was younger. I read and re-read it and it only seemed to get better each time.
A complete different ad venture story than the famous adventure stories like the fabulous five. It is still an adventure, but then a pilgrim journey with a moral. I enjoyed it.
For as long as I can remember, from the time I couldn't even read and my sister would have to read it to me, I have loved it - even now.
I really like the characters Anna, Patience and Peter because they are all very wise, encouraging, inspiring and helpful.
