https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17851885-i-am-malala
And the ability to get an education, regardless of gender."I was a girl in a land where rifles are fired in celebration of a son, while daughters are hidden away behind a curtain, their role in life simply to prepare food and give birth to children."Malala, who is now 16, is an outspoken advocate for girls to have the same right to go to school as boys.
They looked so dark and dirty and that my father's friend described them as 'people deprived of baths and barbers.'"The Taliban started bombing schools and decreed that girls couldn't get an education.
I think her story is amazing and her courage remarkable, her plight and vision inspiring but the book itself I found to be an odd mix of political and historical fact and personal reflections that didn't quite gel for me.
I can see that the historical documentation that was added, presumably by the other author, is there to inform people like me who have a flimsy grasp on the political events and motivations of power brokers in that region of the world, however I found Malala's personal account to be much more interesting and think the book would have done better with a different angle that focused on just her story or even told the political through her eyes or words...I found myself wondering sometimes "who am I listening to here?" and feeling a little as if I was being coerced into forming a political opinion based on the interpretations being offered in the factual accounts.
However, the book reads like an odd jumble of Pakistani history, politics, and personal experience that never quite comes together into a cohesive narrative.
This is one of the more egregious examples, but I think it captures the serious need for editing: "The new girls had horrible stories.
It is certainly inspirational to hear Yousafzai's and her father's stories about speaking up in defiance of politicians, local mullahs, and the Taliban, but I think many readers might lose interest trying to follow the disjointed narrative.
The book feels like it was really rushed, which is a serious shame.
Being a fellow Muslim, I was indeed intrigued and awed by the courage of this young girl who is brave enough to state out what is wrong with her country and strive for education to be available for all.Coming from a country where education is a main priority and females over populated the men in schools,colleges and universities, I was indeed aghast to discovered that in certain parts of the world, women are being treated as second class citizens.
Certainly Malala owed much of her courage from her own father who is an education activist and is the owner of a private school.
Just ignore the review if you think I write negatively.I don't want to raise some sentiments here, so if your comments got deleted, like I wrote earlier, get on with your life.Edited to include what I have wrote earlier in my comments on 4 December '13:I do feel that this autobiography should have waited for a few years for Malala to have a much more distinctive voice.Unfortunately, this was muted by the co author.2.5 stars..OK shoot me!I actually hated this book, because the co-author named Christina Lamb actually used 3/4 of the book and sensationalise everything.
It is refreshing and enlightening to hear a story straight from the source - especially on the topic of life in the Middle East which is always quickly demonized in America.
By experiencing Malala's story, it gives a true face to the people of Pakistan who are mostly wanting peace and prosperity, not oppression and terror.I highly recommend this book to anyone who only has views of the world from the news and social media.
In fact, I think the story of this book can be of value to anyone living today who feels like they are far away from the terror or that they are better than people from other countries.
Being resident of the area, Valley of Swat, where she lived (basically she is from the adjoining District Shangla whence her father came to Swat and established private school), I find the authenticity of the most of events described and actions claimed hard to believe (as do almost all the residents).First there is the question of Local Talibans forcing girls from going to schools.
I was, as everyone else, a regular listener of the Taliban's daily half an hour or so long FM radio broadcast and they only verbally 'forced' girls to wear proper veils when going to school, which was hardly an enforcement as the local culture is already extremely conscious of the 'veil' (Mala herself wears a scarf).
I find it very hard to argue with the idea that Malala was, in fact, spared for a reason.The parts I enjoyed most about this autobiography were the beginning and end, where Malala speaks about her home, the Swat Valley, and everything that she loved and was proud about there: from her amazing father who, unlike most Pashtuns, celebrated when his wife gave birth to a daughter, to her best friend Moniba, with whom she giggled and played with, and who was also her rival for top of the class at at Kahshul School.When Malala described an ordinary day in her old life, fighting with her younger brothers, listening to the village women who would gather at her mother's in the afternoon, I was absolutely charmed.
I would ask all those Pakistanis who are making the book controversial through over-sensationalized and misplaced critiques: 1.
Those who are calling it interpretation of her father's ideas, well what if I may ask is wrong with that?
We may disagree with each others' views but disagreeing with other's interpretation of history, politics and social issues doesn't make one anti-Islam or anti-Pakistan.4.
However, what you must understand is that you are reading a very brave girl who can stand eye-to-eye with adversity and horrors in conditions where most of us would end up compromising with our liberty or would simply run away.
I read this to understand, especially why Ziauddin (her father) is so enlightened about women and their education; how and why Malala became a campaigner so young; the role and opinion of Tor Pekai (her illiterate mother); and her two younger brothers, Kushal and Atal, raised in a culture that favours boys and men, but perpetually in the shadow of their sister.I learned the chronology, and a fair bit about Pashtun culture, the natural beauty of Swat, recent Pakistani political history, Taliban tactics, and the difficulty of living as a displaced person at home and abroad.I discovered that Malala loves Cheesy Wotsits, Justin Bieber, Ugly Betty, styling her hair, Twilight, halal KFC, gently teasing her father, high(ish) heels, pink, and squabbling with the elder of her younger brothers.
As children, most of us hated having to go to school and there are people in this world who fight and risk their lives for this privilege.Many people say with forceful conviction that it is education which can put an end to this extremism and end many of the injustices prevalent in this world.
In the papers I have read about young people, of both sexes, hailing from well-to-do families and having the privilege of attending good schools and colleges, gravitating towards extremist ideologies.
I cried three times just in that first half hour listening to her talk about her story.
The story switched from an explanation of Malala's education and her life to an explanation of Pakistan and different leaders and terrorist regimes ruling and political drama, and although others might think this adds great info to the story, history/politics does NOT interest me whatsoever, so I found myself almost returning this audiobook just because I was so miserably bored.
I stuck with it, though, only skim listening (is that a thing????) and it finally returned to events regarding Malala for the last third of the book.
ولكن الله كتب لها عمر جديد.ولم تنتهي حياتها بالرصاصة رائعة هي قصة ملالا ,تعلمنا ملالا الصبر وقوة العزمية وعدم اليأس ففي الفصل الاول تحكي ملالا يوسفزاي الحياة الجميلة والهادئة في مسقط رأسها مينغورا ,كبرى مدن وادي سوات قبل قدوم طالبان .تستعرض حياة والديها وجانب من علاقتها بعائلتها والتقاليد التي تميزت بها منطقتهاأما الفصل الثانى والذى يحمل عنوان "ظل فوق وادينا"، خصص للحديث عن التغيرات التى نجمت عن ظهور طالبان، وخاصة معارضة تعليم البنات، وتهديد العائلات التى ترسل فتياتها إلى المدارسالفصل الثالث، يسرد قصة بداية ملالا فى طريقها للدفاع عن حق بنات جيلها فى التعليم، عندما كتبت العديد من المقالات والخطابات التى عبرت عن احساسها ومشاعرها تجاه حملات منع الفتيات من التعليم وحرق مدارسهم،بينما يحكى الفصل الرابع من الكتاب حكاية وتفاصيل محاولة اغتيال وقتل ملالا، ويوضح الفصل أنه قبل تنفيذ عملية الاغتيال، كانت تصل إليها عدد كبير من رسائل التهديد إليها ولغيرها من الفتيات اللواتى كن يتعلمن فى مدرسة خوشال،وفي النهاية الفصل الخامس يتحدث عن رحلة ملالا في العلاج ، وماعانته .
Malala e o Poder das PalavrasMalala tinha apenas 10 anos quando os talibãs invadiram o Vale do Swat no Paquistão, terra onde vivia.Com a ocupação talibã as raparigas fôram proibidas de frequentar as escolas.
Mas Malala sobrevive milagrosamente, exila-se em Inglaterra com a família e prossegue o seu Caminho...Malala lutou, sobreviveu e as suas armas fôram apenas as Palavras.As Palavras são Grandes Guerreiras quando lideradas por Causas Justas!!!A história de Malala, toca-nos, revolta-nos, inspira-nos...
Like Malala is really intelligent and knowledgable and amazing, but her writing (to me) lacked any personalisation.
Like even when she's shot, she just clinically writes "and then I was shot and this is where the bullet went".
(Although I feel like it went in one ear and out the other.
I'm overwhelmed right now.)So despite being a) flooded with information and drowning, b) not really understanding all the politics, and c) feeling like the writing was sort of clinical...the story is truly an inspiring and remarkable one and I REALLY LIKED READING IT.
In this book, I am Malala: the girl who stood up for education and was shot by the Taliban, she tells her incredible story.The book is an absorbing read, an amalgam of Malala's own memoir, plus a history of the troubled country of Pakistan.
In horror folk learned of the massacres, the brutality towards women, the denial of food to ordinary people, the burning of homes, crops and land.Malala explains that the majority of the Taliban were made up of Afghan Pashtun tribesmen, simple ignorant people who had always been looked down on by many educated people, including those poor themselves, such as Malala's family.
I learned a lot about Pakistan, what it is like living under Taliban rule, and what life is like in the Middle East in general.DO read this book if you are looking for an educational, easy-to-read, straight-talking look at life in the Middle East during turbulent times.DO NOT read this book if you want weeping, sobbing, gnashing of teeth, or other emotional outbursts on the part of Yousafzai.
I thought this added a lot to the book.Yousafzai is very Muslim and is a very religious person - but she is also a great advocate for girls and women's education.
Malala is such an inspiration to me. Going into this book I already knew quite a bit about her but I loved hearing her first hand experiences. I also enjoyed learning more about this history and politics in Pakistan. I can see how this part might be boring to people, but being the history buff that I am I loved it.
You see each area in Pakistan has its regional customs in addition to Islamic customs and traditions.
She failed to clarify that What Pashtuns or Taliban are soliciting is a cocktail of Islamic and Pashtun traditions.
Islam never debars any Muslim from seeking education.
Also education and knowledge attainment is mandatory for Muslim women and men.I'd like to enlighten the western public that science practicals and computer labs are available in Pakistani educational institutes.
Being a graduate myself from UK mu college had a computer lab which had a designated area for me.
Dearest Malaala,---Why did you write an emotionally manipulative story specifically directed at international readers and compelling them to feel sorry about a nation using the lethal weapon of exaggeration and one sided execution of truth.I always thought why Malaala and not someone else as everything about your story is neat.Too neat.You might be a fugitive for all I care but why ruin an already bad reputation by pointing out all the controversial issues of the last 20 years about a country you claim to love.I'm not even a religious or patriotic person but after reading your sobstory I feel like becoming one by kindly pointing out all the BS.I expected you to be a peacemaker not a pacemaker,Since you won a Nobel prize for peace.You made me fight with a lot of people(who don't know the first thing about Pakistan just like I still don't know what the hell Starbucks is).(view spoiler)[JK Justin Bieber explained that all in baby (hide spoiler)] Aren't All the "ugly truths" you like pointing out so very much subjective matters and cant be explained as one liners.So, I want to be mean to you because you make my whole existence look bad.
Malala is a stand for education.
The difference is..., many of us, can remember being 16 years old, also aware as injustice in our world, yet we didn't stand alone- speak out...
( as if our lives depended on our fighting), for injustice in the world to the level this young girl did.
This young girl was very brave..
because Malala is inspiring.
As brave as this young girl has been-- she is also a girl easy to support.
Malala is young powerful force.....,A Symbol of oppressed women fighting for education and other human rights.
I'm not sure how to do a review for this book, but here goes!The context and information was more in depth then I was expecting and I loved I Am Malala.While reading this, I realized that being an American woman is such a privilege.
I've always had freedom, free speech and democracy for the things that I take for granted.After reading this book, I've realized getting first hand information is the way to go.
The writing was well done and I never felt like I was lost on the information.One last thing.As Malala said,"One child, one teacher, one book, one pen can change the world."And I really believe in this quote.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب هیچ نکته و حتی داستان و سرگذشت خاص و ویژه ای ندارد... زندگینامهٔ دختری نوزده ساله و پاکستانی به نامِ «ملاله یوسف زی» که توسط طالبان ترور شده بود و با آنکه گلوله به صورتش برخورد کرده بود، زنده ماندنوشته هایِ کتاب بدون تردید به قلم این دختر نوجوان نمیباشد.. چراکه من چندین بار صحبتهای این دختر را شنیده ام، او حتی سخن گفتن عادی را نیز به سختی انجام میدهد، هیچ از مسائل ادبی و نویسندگی و حتی نقد نمیداند، چه برسد به آنکه کتاب و زندگینامه بنویسد... دلیل ترورش را هم اینگونه گفته

I have known some admiring people who have been staunch for their causes, but so far Malala is one of the most incredible persons I have known in my generation.Reading this book sounds like the author is an old adult who has grown up a lot , for she is too mature to speak of the miserable situations in the world.
When the Taliban took control of the Swat Valley, one girl spoke out.
Malala Yousafzai refused to be silenced and fought for her right to an education.On Tuesday October 9, 2012, she almost paid the ultimate price.
I AM MALALA is the remarkable tale of a family uprooted by global terrorism, of the fight for girls' education, and of Malala's parents' fierce love for their daughter in a society that prizes sons.It will make you believe in the power of one person's voice to inspire change in the world.
من العار أن أقلل من معاناة الآخرينلكن بالعقل كيف أجمع بين حقيقتينطفلة تكتب في مدونات، صارت بطلة لأن طالبان حاولت قتلهاوجموع أطفال تحصدهم طيارات الأمريكان هناك في باكستان وأفغانستان حصدا، ولم يلتفت لهم أحدا......هذا من ناحية عامةومن جهة المضمون، فالكتاب ممل جدا في تفاصيله، وأكثر إملالا في بيان وجهات نظر ملالا من ناحية السياسةالجيد والشيء الوحيد الذي استفدته هو الوصف للحالة الاجتماعية والطبيعية لوادي سواتواد جميل لولا تقلبات الدهر
Malala is the symbol of enlightenment in modern age. It is very strange to have an inspiration younger than I'm :)I feel extreme shame for fanatic regimes for banning this book. It is very sad that homicidal and illiterate people continue to dictate what adult minds should write,read and speak
I did not enjoy this book as much as I wanted to.
I felt like I was in an agonizing history class that would never end.
With over 50% dedicated to the history of Pakistan, government structure, and the Taliban, I was well irritated with not having more focus on Malala.
I enjoyed the last 75 pages as more details were given on Malala's shooting, recovery and strength.
Given all her many accolades, she remained true to her value and beliefs.
Malala is a true champion for girls, women and education.
Book 3 StarsMalala 5 Stars
What an incredible, inspiring woman.
She has impacted the world by speaking out, and she writes about her father's support as well, adding back story to her honest desire to make a difference in the realm of Pakistani politics and female education.Saying all of that, my rating of I Am Malala pertains in no way to Malala herself.
I felt that this book fell short in portraying Malala's story: it jumbled up Pakistani history, politics, and Malala's own experience in a way that did not make much sense.
