https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/471357.Literature_as_Exploration
At the same time, as that quote indicates, careful reading revealed nuggets in a dross of wordiness and circular reasoning that kept bringing me back to the same point.For a while now, I have been thinking about the way children are taught literature, the ways in which methodology drains away what should be the goal of that teaching, creating lifelong readers who love reading because they read critically.
(My love of history, and reading books about learning, like Rosenblatt's, makes me think both approaches have value with all types of reading.) I take pride in that.
An inspired and encouraging discussion of the imaginative and democratizing effect of reading literature should be, and a chastisement for teachers who go the opposite route by making books more of a burden for their young students.
Not all print is equal, according to Rosenblatt, as she sticks to a mostly familiar set of classroom texts, but she still liberates the readers by emphasizing how it is the personal connection they bring to the books (with guidance from critically-aware instructors) that has the transformative effect of finding nature's so-called mirror on any given page.
This is a good book, but I think it would have been more meaningful if I would have read it earlier in my career.
There's not a whole lot of earth-shattering ideas and concepts in here after going through years of grad.
school and teaching experience.
Though, for the time it was written, it did present novel ideas and concepts around reading, which, I feel are still part of the conversation today.
My only complaint about this book is I feel there wasn't much editing or revision done to emphasize organization.
A must read for teachers of English. I eventually think that the book's message becomes repetitive from chapter to chapter. It might be frustrating for teachers who need a proscriptive step-by-step "What Should I Do?" mentality. (For that read 180 Days by Penny Kittle and Kelly Gallagher) It is more about philosophy and experience with readers' response theory. How a teacher interprets that in the classroom is for them--because reader response!
4.3
. .literature lets the reader live vicariously through the characters in the book, that is why we like it.
She says that the reader and the text have a "moment" together that will never be repeated, and in order to truly grow, the student HAS to analyze their response to the work before they move on.By doing this, students can see where their thinking differences from others and so on and so forth.
If you are a teacher, particularly of the English/Literature variety - this is a must read.
I love how she explains that reading is a process - a transaction between the text, the reader and the author!
Love , love, love it!As a theorist, I've heard of Louise Rosenblatt and her theory of transaction as one reads between the reader, the text, and the Poem (the reading event).
I love that she calls it a Poem, a work of art.
Mostly, I love how she professionalizes teachers and puts forward the idea that through reading literature and transacting with it, we are, ourselves, transformed.
Rosenblatt argues that the reader and the text come together for a transaction that can leave both transformed.
Another way I understand her point is that both a book and we are lifeless, or at least unmoving, until we pick up the book and engage.This book also really helped me as an English teacher, particularly with Common Core, which emphasizes close reading, coming soon.
Rosenblatt's critics claim that her views are similar to reader response theory, which views all responses to text appropriate.
At points the book became too scholarly for me to understand deeply, but perhaps another read is in store.
A ground-breaking, perceptive study of reader-response literary criticism by the author who set the standards for it.
In this 1937 study, Rosenblatt argues that a literary work only has meaning because we give it meaning; there is no intrinsic meaning within a novel, story, poem, or a play.
Readers bring their frame of reference and experiences into the reading process, and as such, they give life to the work in question.
A literary work will mean different things to different readers, and when readers share those personal meanings to others, the literary work continues to "live." Highly recommended for anyone who teaches literature in high schools, colleges, and universities.
Originally written in 1938, this philosphical work was revolutionary in its suggestion that the meaning of text does not reside solely within the words themselves.
Rather, meaning is made when a reader-- with all of his or her life experiences and values-- comes into contact with a printed text with all of its history and implied values at a given time.
Her downfall is writing so broadly that she will often contradict her own claims.
So for example, she offers a very strong critique against the canon that has been held up within traditional education, but then later critiques "trashy literature" as meaningless.
I'm kind of in awe of this woman. I've been hearing about Louise M. Rosenblatt since before I started teaching, almost 15 years ago, but only now have I tackled the theory. Thought-provoking stuff. And it's amazing that she wrote this in 1938. No one has had more impact on the teaching of reading and literature than this woman. It's a shame that her theory gets watered down so much these days (in a sense, even by me!), but I'm glad I am on a first name basis. I'm ready to take the Rosenblatt challenge.
This is one of the texts that got it all started. I'm referring to the teaching of literature as a transactional process in which students interpret writing in their own way, not in a set way that their teacher prescribes. It's a blow to B.F. Skinner's notions of behaviorism and a nod in the direction of Vygotsky's social constructivism. It allows for innovation rather than stagnation and repetition.
Much better than the previous work I read by Rosenblatt. The new edition of this work takes into account some critical theory and even culturally relevant pedagogical pieces, so it was a refreshing change from her somewhat dated 1930s writing of before. Lots of fantastic quotes and her use of Guy de Maupassant's quote to reflect emotional experiences of reading resonated with me as a reader and writer.
This is a great book for teachers of English and reiterates a lot of what I think many of us already innately feel as lovers of language and literature -- that the reader is half the equation. The writer's intentions are important, sure, but what the reader brings to the table is just as important. It is heavy on theory, though, and light on practical application. It also gets a bit repetitive by the end. Rosenblatt was revolutionary and way ahead of her time, though. A solid read.
I have been going crazy trying to remember the title of this book. I finally realized I saved all my papers and could just look in there to find the title. I remember that my professors thought this book was very ground breaking for teaching literature. I remember only bits and pieces now, but at the time it made a lot of sense and cover many ideas about reading I had never considered. Now that I have some real teaching experience, I am interested in revisiting this text.
Having read this after her text-The Reader, the Text, the Poem, this one was a little review. She writes, "As long as artificial and pedantic notion of literary culture persists, students will continue in their indifference to the great works of the past and present."This is the notion I hope my research can impact. See notes. UNC PN 59 R6 1968
Some of the things I'm struggling with are the unnecessary bashing of comic books and magazines as not high-quality. I'm interested to know what her standards are for good literature. Also, the subtle propaganda for democracy is an odd backbone for the book. But some of the ideas are so in line (and much better put) with my own that I cannot help but take notes.
A lot of this book was repetitive, but I identified with the core message: that readers respond to texts and create the texts' meaning. I put this book down after a while because it got too repetitive and I wasn't getting much more out of it.
Good theories about teaching literature, but the book is way too long. It only needed to be about 100-150 pages long. very progressive text considering the fact that it was written by a woman in 1928.
I went a little bit overboard on the highlighting of this book. It is a foundational book that I believe all teachers should read.
Rosenblatt is prophetic and brilliant! She is my new literary hero!
A little too wordy and abstract at times, but a lot of good food for thought. Now how to translate this into sound teaching methods...
Recommended by Tanya in Doha. I blogged about this book- from her email. Any other info about it?
classic, readable pedagogy. she was amazing! Teachers of all stripes should read it.
A must read for the English teacher.
Revisiting this book always expands the horizons in the classroom and in personal reading.
