https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/902010.Cassandra_at_the_Wedding
I didn't because I was looking at her and seeing, again, the very face I'd seen behind the bottles in the bar this afternoon, the one that can always give me a turn when I really look at it and know who it is and why it looks back at me the way it does- as if it belonged to me.Dorothy Baker left the ache that pumps the heart less in the eye socket sucker look that passes when you catch your own expression in the mirror and in the beat before you can't recognize your own face that's gonna be the face you gotta get used to seeing all by its lonesome for the rest of your life.
I got a lot out of Cassandra at the Wedding and still I cannot truthfully say that it is a good book.

Cassandra's twin sister is getting married and Cassandra is grieving this schism.
Who gets the Bösendorfer?
They were like this:"Do you remember, Papa?" I said, "when you read to us out of The Anatomy of Melancholy --'Be not idle, be not solitary'?""It's the other way around, I believe," papa said.
I was stuck.""I don't know why I should have chosen to read that to you," papa said, "I've always believed in solitude."He looked down, saw his glass, recognized it, and took a drink."And in idleness too," he said.
I look down and see my glass.
Come look at the buffet.
The things that get in your way; the indignities you have to suffer before you’re free to do one simple, personal, necessary thing--like work. But I will release Cassandra's self pity that I have come to imagine as my own. As I watch the winds as carrying away my contrived notion of reality, watching the light do great many things to it until, it is out of sight and perhaps I will be bold enough to make the distinction.It has become increasingly hard for me to put the jibber jabber of thoughts
This vision is rooted in a perfect night, a moment of recognition of a way to live in consonance with one’s ideals.
The difference that I see between the two ways of living is what you respect most, an ideal higher truth or imperfect human beings with a right to pursue a better life.
Cassandra is that person of staunch ideals but she loves Jude enough to listen to her arguments, to long for a lighter life.Part of this willingness comes from Cassandra's sense of oneness with Judith.
You'd think that family drama over a wedding would be a well-worn subject, but Baker approaches the subject with nerve and excitement.
The story revolves around Cassandra Edwards, a lesbian graduate student at Berkeley, receives the news of her sister Judith's wedding.
She plans to 'rescue' her sister and destroy everything.
The funniest parts are where the Cassandra explains her ridiculous actions in very reasonable (if a tad neurotic) tone.
For some reason, I'm reminded of Plato's Symposium, with its long digressions on the nature of love and completeness, two people becoming one and all that fluff.
I think its because the father figure here is a perfect stand-in for the boozy Socrates.
I mean: I’ve had this book for years, but started it – fully unintentionally – the day before I boarded a plane from Whitehorse to Montreal, crossing the country away from my sister’s new city.Reading this book was sickly familiar – like when you excitedly eat that seriously rich dessert you loved as a kid, but, churning, realize you can’t quite stomach it as an adult.Aside from metaphor – I won’t get into it; it doesn’t need getting into.
And. What a perfect example of a timeless character, bleeding through her ‘60s context right into 2016: I know exactly how you feel, Cassandra; or if not exactly: I can imagine it.I’ve been crying all day, on and off planes, as I cross the country and head home.
Dorothy Baker was apparently a straight woman who liked to write lesbian fiction.
The lesbianism of the main character and narrator, Cassandra, is subtly treated.
The novel, set at the family ranch near Bakersfield, California, details Cassandra's attempts to derail the wedding and have Judith to herself.
She probably just takes after her mother, who recently died of cancer and whom Judith describes as less like a mother and "more like somebody's little brother."I found this book on the library shelf while looking for Nicholson Baker's The Anthologist, which wasn't there.
When one tries to leave -- that bond, that strong, substantial, never-broken bond -- erodes away; leaving one vulnerable to the world of strangers that are not like themselves.Judith and Cassandra were born into a life of luxury and of old money.
The wedding signifies the break in this aforementioned bond and she will not let Judith go without a fight; this will not happen without someone dying trying.
Baker's 'Cassandra at the Wedding' shows how a family functions better when they are away from one another and the dysfunction that happens when they come together.Life's a stage; It's only big enough for one and Cassandra will be the star.
The song is really about anguish, I think, but she sings it in a lovely, fairly understated way that sort of lets you off the hook somehow – like you have a choice between listening to it remotely and staying emotionally calm, or really focusing on it and getting kind of verklempt and suicidal.
A beautifully written story of twin sisters, one of whom is getting married and the other is struggling to accept this new level of separation.Cassandra and Judith Edwards are twins who have been raised in a seemingly idyllic life.
Cassandra was at times irritating to me but generally her lively, intelligent mind made for an engaging read.Recommended for readers who are particularly interesting in writing craft as well as those who enjoy stories about family drama.

They only want to hear cliches about how lovely it is to be home again, and what an exciting occasion this is, not only a glad reunion but with a wedding thrown in.While I share Cassandra's repulsion towards romantic convention, I'm less sure about this negative description of the benefits of alcohol, as is the narrative, which not only lands Cassandra with a killer hangover but also a near-fatal dose of disillusionment after drunkenness led her into deception self and otherwise.
Such a brilliant novel! Effortless and smart, does that mix of dark and blase so well, with that kinda preppy but cynical bohemianism of Salinger. Loved it.
Perhaps more witty and smart than funny, it's not laugh out loud funny, here's a quote so you can see what I mean: '"I think I'll tell you something I wasn't ever going to tell you," she said, and I knew by her face it was important.
It's a book about family, death, happiness, being a twin and growing up, I thought it was fantastic and I'd be happy to read it again.
Carson McCullers said that even though her regular bed time was ten o'clock (half an hour earlier than mine) she stayed up all night reading this book, so y'kno, me and Carson like this.x
All the books I have read have been incredible discoveries, and I love their translation, even their introductions and afterwords in the novels they publish.The second reason is because I am a twin, and I am always looking for a good twin story, which don't really come by much.
So I read it for very different reasons, but then I was surprised by Dorothy Baker, by her great writing, even if the story of the twins itself was kind of, how should I put it, unrealistic.
Yes, maybe I have twin issues.Then there is her great writing.
CASSANDRA AT THE WEDDING. (1962). Dorothy Baker. ****. The Edwards girls are identical twins – Judith (Jude) and Cassandra (Cass). They were both born and raised on a ranch in the foothills of the Sierras in southern California. Judith still lives at home, but has announced her plans to marry a young man who is about to enter into his internship to complete his M.D. Cassandra is a student teacher at Berkeley, working on completing her doctoral thesis. Their mother died years ago and the girls we
The Edwards girls are identical twins – Judith (Jude) and Cassandra (Cass).
Their mother died years ago and the girls were raised by their grandmother, whose values were right out of TV family sitcoms, and their father, a retired professor of philosophy.
Cass has to go to the wedding and act as the only bridesmaid.
It is almost immediately obvious that Cass has mental and emotional problems.
During the course of the next two days, we follow them as the wedding plans are developed and as Cass takes one final step to have her own way over the rest of the family’s wishes.
Cassandra al matrimonioE’ un libro commovente sulla famiglia, sui conflitti e sulle dolcezze che accompagnano i nostri rapporti.In Cassandra al matrimonio si affrontano molti temi tra cui il tema del doppio infatti, quello dell'impossibilità di essere se stessi, quando nel mondo esiste un individuo come te.Il tema dell’amore, l’amore ossessivo tra sorelle, l’amore del padre e della nonna.
Tocca temi come quello della morte, la madre che muore lasciando un vuoto enorme, incolmabile, e il tentato suicidio della protagonista.L’amore che Cassandra nutre per la sorella è un amore morboso, incondizionato.
E’ un romanzo scritto nel 1965, ma attuale nei temi
Favoloso in tutta la sua crudeltà...
As this novel opens, Cassandra Edwards, a graduate student at Berkeley, is preparing to drive home to her family’s ranch for the wedding of her identical twin sister, Judith.
During her journey home, Cassandra stops as a bar and catches her face in the mirror, and at first she sees the face of Judith looking at her very thoughtfully:By a firm act of will I forced the face between the shelves to stop becoming Judith’s and become mine.
Made me think of Chekhov a bit, those slightly fraught, flawed characters and the way your sympathy for them sneaks up on you.
Cassandra is a lovely character.
And you end up sympathizing with her for just having had to grow up in the shadow of her sister's wacky brilliance.The Aristophanes connection is accurate, but it's also kind of simplistic -- the book is about a lot more than just the rending of the one from the one true love.
Era. Lo scorso dicembre, per fare un po' pace con me stesse, mi compro un abbonamento annuale e a una libreria di Londra - Daunt Books - che si prende la briga, per una cifra modica, di mandarti un libro ogni mese.
Il libro è bellissimo, come tutte le cose inaspettate, come quegli occhi che incontri una volta per sbaglio e poi diventano gli occhi, come il sapore di quel rosso buono davanti al camino d'inverno, come quella gonna che ti cade perfetta e tu ti dimentichi i tuoi fianchi.Cassandra e Judith sono gemelle, identiche.
I almost didn't read it for suspicion of any writer who would name her protagonist "Cassandra," but you get over it.The premise is that Cassandra, one half of identical twins, is preparing to attend - and hoping to thwart - the sudden wedding of her sister Judith.
In novelistic tradition, Cassandra's marginal way of thinking is partly expressed as insanity, and the barriers to living as she would want to does make her a danger to herself (and irritating / infuriating at times).
To me this was a difficult read because of the subject matters of madness and twins.
My grandmother was part of a twin and mad as a hatter.
She could be lovely at times but she could be so manipulative that it made your blood run cold.As a result of this I became very interested in psychology as an adolescent.
I love to read about slightly or completely unhinged characters and all sorts of mental illnesses.
Baker comes up with fascinating views on twins and their struggle to grow up as individuals.
Cassandra's manipulative character will stay with me in remembrance of my grandmother.
The perfect airplane read for a person en route to a wedding, this tautly written 1962 novel about a woman falling apart, coming home to her family’s ranch to derail her twin sister’s wedding.
That’s the summary – but obviously it’s about so much more: about the nature of love and obsession, about identity and the self.
It’s a novel filled with light and despair, anguish and pathos and extreme feeling.
It made me think of the film "Rachel’s Getting Married", another story of a conniving, distraught sister and the issues of family history, responsibilities, and relationships that spark and collide at significant events.
July 2012I read The Farthest Shore by Ursula K. Le Guin last month, but I kept getting stuck (it's the longest short book I've ever read), so to distract myself I started working through my NYRB collection instead.There may have been a conflict of interest there.
I was interested to read a novel which was published the year I was born when I came across this book.All about twins and what happens when one of them marries.A great read!
Cassandra is a fantastic character: at 24, she is a mixture of assertive and naive as she struggles to navigate the world without her sister and cope with her depression.
Baker's writing on depression is amazingly, heart-breakingly astute.
It's sparsely populated, but each character -- Cassandra, Judith, their father and grandmother -- are so full of life and vigour.
This book is so complex -- it's so hard to end literary fiction satisfyingly without being either cloying or disappointing, but Baker manages to create an emotionally-savvy plot that doesn't stumble once.
This book should be read by everyone.
Judith Speaks3.
Cassandra Speaks4.
Cassandra Speaks4.
Her reaction to Judith's plans to marry reminded me of Virginia Woolf's when told that her sister Vanessa was going to marry.
But the overriding memory for me is an intense dislike of the manipulating, selfish Cassandra.Published in 1962 and regarded by Ms Eisenberg as a classic which should never be out of print I keep wondering what Virginia Woolf would have made of it!The best thing about the book for me is its lovely cover, part of a 1953 painting by David Park, to whose memory Dorothy Baker dedicates her book.
Allerdings bedeutet dies nicht, dass der Schreibstil schlecht ist, denn die Autorin konnte definitiv schreiben, das Problem ist jedoch, dass in der Geschichte meiner Meinung nach viel zu wenig geschehen ist.Hierbei wird die Geschichte der Zwillingsschwestern Cassandra und Judith erzählt.
Dabei wird die Geschichte oftmals sehr schonungslos erzählt, nimmt allerdings erst viel zu spät an Fahrt auf.Mit 280 Seiten ist das Buch noch verhältnismäßig dünn, sodass man eigentlich davon ausgehen darf, dass hier auf wenigen Seiten viel passieren muss, doch dies ist leider nicht der Fall, denn die Geschichte hat durchaus ihre Längen, sodass ich mich häufiger dabei erwischt habe, wie ich immer wieder vorgeblättert habe, um zu schauen, wann das Kapitel zuende ist, was bei mir normalerweise nur sehr, sehr selten vorkommt.Insgesamt ist "Zwei Schwestern" eine gut durchdachte Geschichte, die allerdings viel zu viele Längen hat und einen recht eigenwilligen Schreibstil besitzt, sodass ich hier nicht immer meinen Spaß mit hatte.

