https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16151178-the-sea-of-tranquility
It perfectly suits the situation, and the MC is like, "why did I not think about that before?"Here that happens too, Josh talks about I fucking don't know what actually because I skipped as soon I saw what was happening second chances in a poem and I just can't, people.I'm sorry, but authors, don't do that, because it's cheap, unconvincing, cliché, unbelievable, annoying, and it basically makes me want to KICK something.
I don't know if American girls can relate to the way high school guys are portrayed in this book, but personally I had a hard time doing so.
An infinite amount of stars!  Beautiful, emotional, powerful, and unforgettable. There is a reason why I love this book so much. It gets better and better with every read. This is easily my favorite book. Period. A story of strength, love, forgiveness, healing, moving on, letting go, and second chances. Both main characters are amazing. They are damaged, broken and perfectly imperfect. There are so many other secondary characters you will fall in love with (Drew ♥). After re-reading this again,
You are so pretty that I wish you weren't so I wouldn't want to hit every guy at school who looks at you, especially my best friend.” “I may not be allowed to love her, but that doesn't mean I'll let anyone hurt her.”“I’d trade my hand all over again to take back everything I did and hear him call me Sunshine.” “What did you call her?" she ask's but I don't think it's her real question."Sunshine," I say, and she smiles like she believes it's perfect and she may be the only person other than me who would think so."What is she to you?" she whispers.
I need to know that there's a way for people like us to end up okay.
Even if it doesn't end with you coming back to me.”“I love you, Sunshine, and I don't give a shit whether you want me to or not.”  (hide spoiler)]
By the end I was bled completely dry of all thought...all emotion!I was so incredibly close to just repeating, "OH MY GOD, WOW!
OH MY GOD, WOW!", over and over again for this review, but it's important for me to let you know exactly how this book made me feel.
I needed that time.
I realized that it was my shaking hands, my pounding heart and my heaving chest that kept causing my kindle to have a seizure!You're probably asking yourself how could someone possibly get so emotional about a book.
It caused me to feel, invaded my thoughts, my heart...it became a part of me.
The Sea of Tranquility  is a beautifully written, deep and heart-wrenching drama about two damaged teens surviving unchangeable tragedies, and devastating grief, hurt, and pain; learning to cope with them, accept them, and somehow finding healing, safety and finally happiness and love in each other along the way.
It highlights the realities, horrors and imperfections of life (and, yes, love) while still having a powerfully uplifting ending,  "My name is Nastya Kashnikov.I was a piano-playing prodigy...I was murdered two and a half years ago.Discuss."  Nastya is a beautiful, bright seventeen year old girl struggling with having her dreams and life as she knew it shattered two years ago by a random act of violence.
*5+++ Stars!*Beautifully tragic and powerfully uplifting!The Sea Of Tranquility is quite possibly one of the most beautifully written books I've read in its genre.
Nastya is a girl who’s lost her identity, and with it, her will to live a life consisting of anything more than barely existing.
She has survived a heart-wrenching trauma that has left her a broken shell of the hopeful person she once was.
Josh is equally broken and lost, and concealed entirely from the world around him.
I find it fascinating when a story can create conflicting emotions simultaneously; I was incredibly somber, yet so hopeful and even happy.
**STILL ON SALE!!!! | http://amzn.to/2vG2VU1 ***The Most Amount of Stars I Can Give*  “I love you, Sunshine,” I tell her, before I lose my nerve. “And I don’t give a shit whether you want me to or not.”  This…This right here…This is the kind of story that makes you appreciate words. Makes you appreciate when nouns and verbs and adjectives are strung together to form these magical little sentences that touch your heart and you don't even know they're doing it until you're so sucked into the story
This…This right here…This is the kind of story that makes you appreciate words.
Makes you appreciate when nouns and verbs and adjectives are strung together to form these magical little sentences that touch your heart and you don't even know they're doing it until you're so sucked into the story you can't put it down and 4 hours have gone by and you haven't eaten or moved or even blinked because you couldn't possibly stop.
You are so pretty that I wish you weren’t so I wouldn’t want to hit every guy at school who looks at you, especially my best friend.” I stop to catch my breath.
Oh my god, I just don't know what to say about this book. I seriously considered leaving the rating blank because The Sea of Tranquility isn't something that can easily be summed up in stars, my feelings for it are much more complex than that. I do realise that I'm pretty much the only person in the universe who gave this less than 4 stars (and most gave it 5) and there are a number of reasons, but I'll get to those in a minute. But it's important to know that 3 stars isn't really accurate at a
On goodreads, 3 stars means "I liked it" and I think I can say that there were no parts of this book that fit that description: I either loved it or was annoyed by it.
Nastya is easy to love, from her original snarkiness that should have you laughing to the darker sides of her character that will draw you in and make you need to know her secrets.
Nastya, of course, doesn't try to hook up with all the hot guys so she is also a morally superior being in Josh's eyes.
And in this Josh always calls Nastya "sunshine" and I just do not think it's cute.
Nothing is perfect. It's not even good yet. But maybe.   This book is not made of sunshine and roses. The Sea of Tranquility is full of complex and broken characters. Their lives have been full of pain, suffering, loneliness and violence. This book takes you on a journey of healing and self-discovery. It's dramatic, yet ultimately inspiring. Nastya is a believable, likeable heroine. I felt bad about what she's had to go through. I admire her because of her strength, and her ability to move for
This book is not made of sunshine and roses.
The Sea of Tranquility is full of complex and broken characters.
This book takes you on a journey of healing and self-discovery.
She knows she will never be the same but she intends to keep fighting.
He had his own demons to fight, despite his young age.
He's drawn to Nastya and he finds himself falling in love with her.
There's got to be a happier ending than this, here.
Nothing about the book is incredibly exceptional, but I loved its originality.
*My The Sea of Tranquility music playlist:NF ft.
Dear book,
Now in a new town and a new school where no one knows her or the horrific thing that happened to her.
One of the many things that makes this book awesome is the character development.
I would love to see Drew have his own book I adored his character.
~JoshFave Thing Unsaid'I know at the moment what he has given me and it's not a chair.
He's given me a place to belong.' ~NastyaFave Lines"Because she's mine and I don't want you touching her." ~JoshUnforgettable Lines"You weren't suppose to kill me." ~Nastya"Why Resurrection?" Drew Asks."Because she died," her mother says, looking so much like sunshine that it unnerves me.
“Some things you just have to learn to live with.”   ➦Nastya doesn't talk. Not because she can't but because she chooses not to. She tries to go through life unnoticed, while never forgetting that day when her life got taken away from her. ➦In an attempt to restart her life, Nastya attends a new high school where nobody knows her. She meets a boy named Josh , who is not without problems of his own. They become friends and end up helping each other heal.➦I know I'm 4 years too late to the party
They become friends and end up helping each other heal.➦I know I'm 4 years too late to the party here but I'm glad I finally ended up reading this book.
This is definitely a type of book young adults should be reading.➦This story reminds us all that sometimes bad shit happens and it's nobody's fault.
There is slow burn romance here but if you are looking for steam this is not that type of book.
If you like second chance stories and slow burn romance I suggest you pick this book up and give it a chance!
So many glowing reviews for The Sea of Tranquility, yet, I DNFed at 50%.Why? Because: 1. Nastya is a twit.2. Josh is a caricature3. Both sound virtually identical. At a point, I couldn't distinguish whose POV I just read. Josh and Nastya were the same character, IMO.4. Why should I care about their class schedules or which teacher was an idiot or the high school angst? I mean, who cares?5. Nastya is a twat and I felt zero empathy (sympathy) for her ordeal. 6. Not enough plot. I respect all the 5-star reviews but, I simply don't get it.
Oh and I WANT JOSH FUCKING BENNETT!!!!!!!!!!!Review to come.Updated Review:AMAZING*MESMERIZING*HEARTBREAKING*BEAUTIFUL*CAPTIVATING*POIGNANT*POETIC*These are the things that come to mind when I think of this book.
I was frustrated with both Nastya and Josh at times, but my love for them never faltered because I understood why they made the choices they did.The characters....let me say, these characters will FOREVER hold a place in my heart.
With just his words, he had my insides turned out and every part of me screaming OH HELL YES JOSH, I'LL DO WHATEVER YOU WANT...JUST KEEP TALKING LIKE THAT.
When Josh and Nastya's lives collide so begins the journey of redemption, healing, friendship, and love and ultimately the story of one tragically beautiful girl and one solitary boy who find each other amongst the pain of their own difficulties.What did I love?There are not enough stars or descriptive comments than can sum up this novel and it's tragic perfection.
I can't go without mentioning Drew his friendship and loyalty stood out for me as a winning combination in this story, I loved that the author created characters that all fitted so perfectly together and I know that future books will have a difficult time topping the admiration that I have for them all.
Point is, this book made me FEEL so many emotions that I just gave up trying to understand them at some point.Colorblind by Counting Crows https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y0s7y...
I think my mind has replayed it a hundred times since it popped into my head and every time I hear it, I’ll think of Josh and Sunshine.I found myself unable to stop thinking about Nastya and Josh and even Drew.
Nastya’s aunt, her parents, Josh, Drew, Drew’s entire family and his girl…they all play big role in Nastya’s life, even if she wants them all to stay at a safe distance.
11/14/2015 LOVED ITYou know it's good when you can't put it down and you stay up reading until you fall asleep with the book in your hands.
After I finished I had to go back and read the section (view spoiler)[ where she first sees his garage and feels like she knows that place.
I got to a point where I was like Josh (view spoiler)[ in the fact that I didn't need to know Sunshine's secret.
(hide spoiler)]I just finished but I want to reread it already to capture the stuff I'm sure I missed the first time.
People who have never been through any sort of shit always assume that they know how you should react to having your life destroyed... As if there's a playbook for surviving hell. The resignation and grief, the guilt and self-hatred. Especially the 'getting away from your loved ones' thing? Bull's eye.**If you want to learn a bit about how people, in the real world, actually deal with guilt and loss and profound disappointment, this book would be illuminating to you.** And I can't say that emph
Bull's eye.**If you want to learn a bit about how people, in the real world, actually deal with guilt and loss and profound disappointment, this book would be illuminating to you.** And I can't say that emphatically enough because plently of times it hit just so close to home.Josh, bless him but for all his brooding and adorableness and astronomically shitty luck, I can't fully gasp him.
She smacked right in my face.A lot of what Nastya thinks of, I have thought about more than once.
A lot of shit she tries to avoid, I have been trying to avoid them.
Review here: Hello Beautiful Book Blog  So you see the title The Sea of TranquilityI'm doing a short review since there are so many to choose from and also because I am late to the party!My favorite part was really just the smaller details woven in.Her love of name meaningsThe chair ♥SunshineIce creamI could go on and on^^^ I guess I really like to cling to the good things and the lighthearted moments, but there was a lot of pain and depression. Nastya hasn't spoken a word in over a year. She i
So you see the title The Sea of TranquilityI'm doing a short review since there are so many to choose from and also because I am late to the party!My favorite part was really just the smaller details woven in.Her love of name meaningsThe chair ♥SunshineIce creamI could go on and on^^^ I guess I really like to cling to the good things and the lighthearted moments, but there was a lot of pain and depression.
You just don't want to let them go even though you know you have to!And finally some of my favorite quotes:--“I know at that moment what he's given me and it isn't a chair.
Their romance is not a stereotypical love story, nothing is easy about it but they are both unable to fight it.
This for me was the perfect love story because of how imperfect it is.
It raises the bar for the entire genre and it leaves you speechless for days, unable to get a grasp of all the ways this story affected you.When I finished this book, I had to fight the urge to get up and give it a standing ovation.
If you are going to read one book this year, let it be this one.
[image error]  "I hate my left hand. I hate to look at it. I hate it when it stutters and trembles and reminds me that my identity is gone. But I look at it anyway, because it also reminds me that I'm going to find the boy who took everything away from me. I'm going to kill the boy who killed me, and when I kill him, I'm going to do it with my left hand." WOW.... AMAZING..... I've been thinking about this book all day... wondering where to start with this review. I just don't know where to start
I am pressed so hard against the earth by the weight of reality that some days I wonder how I am still able to lift my feet to walk.Nastya is a 17 year old girl struggling to survive after a random act of violence has changed her life forever.
Its so incredibly sad and tragic for one so young to feel she has no more happiness to look forward to in the future.
For a moment I feel like a survivor in some post apocalyptic world, looking through a window, imagining a part of my life that's gone now."
When two worlds full of tragedy collide, prepare yourself for some heartbreak... Sometimes there are books that take my breath away, sometimes my emotions flood my soul, sometimes words cut deep into my heart, sometimes stories don't want me to let go, sometimes I fall in love... with a character, with a paragraph, with an author... sometimes I just feel like falling.Deep and raw, that's how this story is.It breaks your heart and even makes you enjoy that feeling, it plays with your mind, it mak
Sometimes there are books that take my breath away, sometimes my emotions flood my soul, sometimes words cut deep into my heart, sometimes stories don't want me to let go, sometimes I fall in love...
sometimes I just feel like falling.Deep and raw, that's how this story is.It breaks your heart and even makes you enjoy that feeling, it plays with your mind, it makes you want to savour every word, to drown in every emotion...Sad and troubled, this is how the characters are.They have suffered enough to last for a lifetime, they have lost everything including their life, their hope, their identity, their faith, the ones they loved...Beautiful and emotional, this is how the writing is.Katja Millay will make you love her characters, her words, the whole story.
A place that would swallow you up and accept you no matter what." But like so many things in this book, the Sea of Tranquility isn't what it seems.
But I can share that Nastya is an amazing, complex and real feeling character, with a unique voice of broken bravado.
Yes, maybe her persona and her carefully constructed facade are illusions.
I also loved how this book has major themes, one of which is the power and fragility of the creative impulse and process - how vital and irrepressible it is, and how devastating its loss can be.
4 stars!
"I think I can believe in hope and I would like to believe in the dream of second chances."   Well Katja Millay just brought on all of the feels.This is one of those books that has been sitting on my tbr shelf forever.
I had made a 2015 resolution that I would do my best to read all of the physical books I owned that have been sitting on my bookshelves for months, some even for years.
The first book in line was this one.
I cannot believe I waited this long to read it.
It's such a cla
Nastya in a way chose Josh because she knew that he understood what it was like to be asked questions you didn't want to answer or talk about, and she knew he wouldn't do that.Drew most surprisingly, was my favorite character in the book.
There are so many ways to break a person and rape while heartbreaking is not the only horrifying example  (hide spoiler)].In the next spoiler is what I didn't care for:(view spoiler)[ I was really fucking pissed that after Nastya broke up with him, that Josh just ended up sleeping with Leigh.
She has changed schools and fled the safety of her family because she can’t be who she used to be before her life took a horrific detour.
She has moved in with her aunt and has begun classes at a new school.
Josh Bennett is as socially inept as Nastya.
For some reason Nastya has the ability to break Josh’s “force field” whether Josh wanted her to or not.
They develop a strong bond based on the safety of each other’s company.
Drew, Josh’s childhood friend recognizes the couples love for each other while never waivering in his loyalty to both friends.
RATING: 5+++++ Hearts!! :D <3 <3 <3  “Sometimes I just forget how to breathe.”  The Sea of Tranquility is one of those reads that stays with you long after the last page is flipped. It’s beautifully flawless, defining and then redefining relationships and friendships, and leaving us with a smile on our faces despite its seriousness. It’s a story of love, healing, forgiveness, family, and second chances as detailed through two stunningly complex, broken main characters. Josh and Nastya m
I know at that moment what he’s given me and it’s not a chair.
Like they want you to be happy or whatever and that makes you automatically responsible for their happiness because they won't be happy unless you are ...
And maybe I'm a liar and I do need it, because being kissed by Josh Bennet is kind of like being saved.
I need to know that there's a way for people like us to end up okay.
“I love you, Sunshine, and I don't give a shit whether you want me to or not.” 
He's sarcastic, dejected, and very much a loner...While Josh's therapy is building, Nastya's is running; and one night her running in an unknown place and paying very little attention to her surroundings brings her to a house that is familiar to her, familiar in a way she can't possibly explain, but nonetheless it's there, ingrained in her, causing her to gravitate towards it.
In getting to know, love and care for Nastya, Josh believed that one day, it could be possible..."There's got to be a better story.
Sometimes, I felt so happy and hopeful, I really had fun but the knife was always there even if it was not moving, it made its presence felt even at the happiest times.When I love the characters in a novel, I love the book more.
In this book, I wanted to hug both characters many times.
“I wanted her to see you.” ***“About last night, I told Drew to keep his hands off you.""Why would you do that?""Because everyone talks shit about you because of it.
I FINALLY get it!Everyone's been admonishing me for not having read this book.
"Read it!" They told me.
I did enjoy this book.
Incredibly realistic.
Everything about them felt natural and realistic.
And, even though it's been a (long) while since I was 18, I felt like I could easily connect and remember what it was like being that age.
but it all worked in the grand scheme of the story.So now, like all of my friends who recommended this to me ...
if you haven't experienced this wonderful book yet, I would definitely recommend it to you!
*contented sigh*
“If we had a telescope, I could show you the Sea of Tranquility.” She points up at the sky. “See? Up there on the moon. You can’t really tell from here.” “Is that why you have a picture of the moon in your bedroom?” “You noticed that?” “It was the only thing on the wall. I thought you were into astronomy.” “I’m not. I keep it there to remind me that it’s bullshit. I thought it sounded like this beautiful, peaceful place. Like where you’d want to go when you die. Quiet and water everywhere. A p
I thought it sounded like this beautiful, peaceful place.
I had this whole image of it.” “Doesn’t sound like a bad place to end up.” “It wouldn’t be, if it were real.
The Sea Of Tranquility is one of those books that you are reading, that just sort of works itself into your head and heart without you even realizing it.
Josh is 17 years old and has lost everyone.
Throughout this book I watched these two struggle with life and love.
I can honestly say that Josh, Nastya and several other characters I grew to love within these pages will be in my heart for a long time.
