https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/431365.Arthur_s_Eyes
“Arthur’s Eyes” is the second book in Marc Brown’s famous “Arthur” series and is about how Arthur copes with having his glasses for the first time and the bullying he goes through.
“Arthur’s Eyes” is truly a masterpiece for anyone who also has problems with having their glasses for the first time in their lives.
Marc Brown’s writing is truly inspiring since it involves a real life situation about how Arthur felt when he was teased by his classmates about his glasses and how he did not want to wear his glasses anymore because of the teasing.
Kwoe
Arthur has trouble seeing and gets a pair of glasses but at first everyone at school laughs at him...My 4 year old grandson asked me to read him this book. It has cute drawings of animals in a grade 2 school setting. Coming from a family where lots of people wear glasses, this story provided a good opportunity to talk about who needs glasses and how it helps them to see things better.
This is a good story about getting eyeglasses and the benefits (getting to see better) and challenges (getting picked on).
Our girls haven't experienced this yet, but if nothing else, I hope they can see that it hurts children to be picked on for being different.
They noticed that the illustrations were a bit different (even from the image on the cover) and I explained that it was one of Marc Brown's early books about Arthur, and that the illustrations changed a bit over the years, especially with the TV show.
It reminded me of how much Jim Davis's Garfield has changed in the last 30+ years.
When Arthur needs glasses so that he can be a better student and playmate, the next day, his friend's laugh at him. They tease him because he is different, and Arthur doesn't want to be different. He just wants to be able to see, but he cannot stand to be teased for it. This book helps kids accept the fact that glasses tend to be labeled unjustly as "uncool" and help them accept that it is okay to be different.
This story is so fun and a great book for kids. It's about Arthur getting glasses. He starts not being able to see well and having to have his friend help him read problems. His parents realize he needs glasses. His friends though start to make fun of him so all he wants to do is hide them away. In the end his teacher helps him realize glasses aren't bad, even he has to wear glasses. This would be good to read to students especially someone struggling with having glasses.
I love Arthur! But this is a great book to have in the classroom because students who get glasses for the first time, for whatever reason, are ashamed to wear them. It is great for students to see themselves and the problems that they face in the books that they read. Students would be able to see the good that comes from using their glasses!
Arthur was my all-time favorite Educational TV show as a kid! I would watch it every morning!
Daddy: Did you like it?Malcolm: I didn't like it.Daddy: Why didn't you like it?Malcolm: It was scary.Daddy: What made it scary?Malcolm: Francine wasn't very nice.
It is a great book to introduce to children that are in need of glasses or are struggling with the same issues Arthur did.
Throughout the book, we read that Arthur continuously gets bullied for his glasses and he decided to "lose" them.
Ends up his teacher wears glasses too, and Arthur feels much better.
This is a great book to read to kids that may feel uncomfortable wearing glasses for the first time.
This book shows that your not the only one wearing glasses and glasses are only there to help you succeed!
I have never read any of Marc Brown's "Arthur" series, but I did watch the TV show a lot when I was growing up!
I think this story would be great to read to a young child who have recently gotten or are planning on getting glasses themselves because they may have the same feelings that Arthur did until he discovered his teacher also wore glasses.
This story can also be for students who do not have glasses so they know that treating someone poorly for having them is wrong.
Overall, a sweet story that can be a learning tool for children/students with and without glasses!
This book teaches young readers that its okay to wear glasses and not feel embarrassed about wearing them or being called four-eyes.
This book has great images, but the character on the cover does not look like the character in the book.
They are drawn differently.
Arthur is a TV character, and this might throw off young readers because of the facial differences of the characters in the book and the ones shown on TV.
There is not a lot of rich word choice and the sentences are simple, but there is a great dialogue between characters and a lot of narration.
I thought it was a really good way of showing kids what it's like to have to need glasses.
I think this could show kids that it is also fine to wear glasses even if people make fun of you for it.
Also it shows that it is ok to be different from everyone else.
The illustrations are a little different from the Arthur tv show but they still do a great job of giving us an idea of what the story is about and all of the emotions.
Arthur was very self conscious when he first got his glasses and didn't want to wear them because his friends made fun of him. Only when he saw that his teacher also wears glasses did he decide to give them a chance again only to find out that he could see well enough to beat Francine at basketball.
This is a wonderful book to open the eyes of children in the topic of minor disabilities. The illustration of Arthur was different than the cover of the book portrayed, which was deceiving when reading the book. Arthur is able to overcome the bashing from other students on his glasses, and he was supported by Francine. This book's illustrations are outdated, but the text is of quality.
Alissa has this story on video. She's watched it many times. When she opened the book, she "read the pictures" almost verbatim. She was so proud.
He had to hold his books very close to him, and kids didn’t want to play with him.
His parents took him to the eye doctor and got him glasses.
Arthur decided to hide his glasses because he was embarrassed.
Arthur accidentally went into the girl's bathroom on accident, and was even further embarrassed.
Arthur’s teacher told him that he wore glasses, and this made Arthur feel better.
Arthur’s glasses helped him excel in school.
I enjoyed this story and feel that it has a great message.
I also enjoyed the illustrations, as I usually do in the Arthur books.
I enjoy all of the Arthur books,I'm a little too old for them but I still love them!
It is about Arthur getting new glasses
Arthur starts struggling with his eyesight in class and realized that he could not see the classroom board or read his books.
The next day Arthur saw one of his teachers wearing glasses and realized it was not something to be embarrassed about.
Wearing the glasses with pride he was able to read the board, improve on his class work and read his books.
Overtime, both Arthur and his classmates gained a liking for his glasses and found enjoyment while wearing them.
We need to teach our students how to be supportive and accepting to all kinds of people.
Arthur’s Eyes is a great book that encourages children to be themselves and to not worry about what other people might think of them.
It also encourages children that it is a good thing to stand out and be different because it makes you unique and special in your own way.
However, he worries for no reason at all because he finds that his friends don’t care if he wears glasses—they even help him pick out the perfect pair!
However, this book proves that those things are insignificant and should not hold you back.
Arthur had to hold his books very close to him, and kids didn’t want to play with him.
When he came to school with them, his friends laughed and called him four eyes.
Arthur felt embarrassed and decided to hide his glasses.
Arthur’s teacher tells him that he wears glasses too, and this made Arthur feel better.
Arthur’s glasses helped him excel in school which made Francine want to get glasses too.
I think that this story does a great way of showing kids that being different from your friends isn't bad.
Arthur’s Eyes by Marc Brown is about Arthur’s first pair of glasses.
Arthur’s mom takes him to the optometrist where he picks out his first pair of glasses.
Arthur confidently went to school in his new glasses, until suddenly people began to make fun of him and Francine called him four eyes.
Arthur decided he was going to lose his glasses because getting teased was a lot worse than not being able to see.
The best part of the book, however, is when Francine comes to school for their class picture in glasses without lenses, just because she likes the way they look.
Arthur is back again in Arthurs Eyes. This book is about Arthurs struggles when he has to get glasses. None of his classmates or friends have glasses and when he wears them for the first time they all tease him. Sick of their teasing Arthur refuses to wear them and gets himself in some sticky situations. Eventually he realizes that its okay to be a little different and that he really needs them in order to do daily activities, no matter how goofy they look. I enjoyed this book and I believe it h
None of his classmates or friends have glasses and when he wears them for the first time they all tease him.
Sick of their teasing Arthur refuses to wear them and gets himself in some sticky situations.
I enjoyed this book and I believe it has great lessons for young readers and that in general it is a great book for them.
It teaches them that it is okay to be different and that friends should accept you for who you are.
Once again the author Marc Brown has provided exciting and detailed illustrations that readers will enjoy.
Arthur was a normal boy who sometime had a hard time seeing.
Not being able to see made it hard for Arthur to lots of normal activities.
When finally, he was talking to his teacher who convinced him that glasses weren’t as bad as the thought and his friend helped make him feel less alone and wore classes with him.
This is a good book for lots of children who are new to the though of glasses they think that people will make fun of them when really they need them and they aren’t that bad.
Arthur’s Eyes, written by Marc Brown is a book that is a part of the Arthur series.
In this story, Arthur is in third grade and has to get his first pair of glasses.
Arthur did not mind them at first, until all the kids at school started calling him “four eyes”.
This really affected Arthur at first, until he realized it does not matter what others think.
Glasses are a common change in a child’s life, and some of my student’s may feel the same way Arthur does.
Kids will enjoy this book since the Arthur series is also a popular TV show on television.
The original Arthur, when he actually had a long nose.
A Reading Rainbow favorite--how can you not love Bill Cosby reading this?5/13/10 a supplemental book in my "For Mom" preschool storytime, as my Tue. choices were not that great.
The cover is updated to the more modern Arthur, but the pictures within are still the original.
And I could not help putting is some of the Bill Cosby voices and inflections while reading this.
But it was a great length and one they could follow the story on.
I do wonder, though, how books set in schools work with them, as that's one thing they haven't really experienced, yet.
Review; This is a book from a series called An Arthur Adventure.
I think it one of the best books in the series.
It is funny and teaches various lessons such as teasing is not nice and you should not let others get you.
Marc Brown Facts: I'd like to begin by saying, I love this author.
His books are wonderful.Marc Brown is an American children's books author and illustrator.
Many of his books are related to his own life as a child and as an adult.
His characters are also inspired by real people in his life.
He is embarrassed of having to get glass but then in the end he does and he feels so much better.
Having his friends support him made Arthur feel more confident in having to get glasses.
It allowed for him to learn how to accept help from others and to accept any changes that might come his way.
In the classroom can be used to teach children about supporting one another and how being supportive can change a person's attitude towards something that at first they were not big fans of.
This version was one of the older (original) books so the drawings don't look like the tv show so if your child is used to watching Arthur on PBS then they maybe a little 'off' with the pictures in this book. But the story is a good one. Especially for children having to wear glasses and the frustrations of their friends at school making fun of them. Arthur soon learns that it's okay to wear glasses and is sometimes pretty "cool" to wear them too! How he can do so many more things much better than he once did!
