https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32438.Shattered
The suspense is maintained in Duel because you never actually see the driver of the truck whereas within Shattered you get the story first hand from Alex and Colin, the victims, and from Leland, the crazed man chasing them.Alex and Colin are driving from Philadelphia to San Francisco to meet up with Courtney in their new house.
Obviously not a classic and will never make the top 5 of Koontz's novels but a decent read to pass the time and get you thinking.
Well, the old Black/Neon Koontz books, that's what.
This is the era of Koontz material that was released in paperback by Berkley books in the 70s and 80s.
There are numerous novels in this category, and every damn one of them is good.
If you find a Koontz book with a black cover, a simple image on the front, and a bright-as-fuck font used for the title and byline, read that mo' frakker.
What makes this book stand out in the crowd is its antagonist, George Leland.
Koontz nails it!
August 2018 group readWould the problem not occurred if the entire Doyle family - Cortney(wife), Alex(dad) & Colin(11 - Cortney's brother) travelled together in Alex's Thunderbird to San Francisco & avoid the problem with the Chevolet van tracking them? -or- would George Leland just be there anyway? September 2014 read Courtney (wife) was already in San Francisco. Alex(husband) & Colin(Courtney's young brother) travels in his Thunderbird from Philadelphia to San Francisco to bond clo
August 2018 group readWould the problem not occurred if the entire Doyle family - Cortney(wife), Alex(dad) & Colin(11 - Cortney's brother) travelled together in Alex's Thunderbird to San Francisco & avoid the problem with the Chevolet van tracking them?
Courtney (wife) was already in San Francisco.
Alex(husband) & Colin(Courtney's young brother) travels in his Thunderbird from Philadelphia to San Francisco to bond closer.Colin sees a Chevrolet Van (George Lehand) following them.
But when they meet in the end...
Find & punish Countney for her betrayal of "love" to him?The end of this Dean Koontz book has unexpected "love" scenes unusual in his books, he is my favorite author.
Courtney would be waiting for the, ready to begin a wonderful new life with her husband, her brother...RUN...
Howard: fraudio#3: AB Brain Child by John Saul: fraudio#4: 3* Domain (Rats #3) by James Herbert: fraudio#5: CR The Mourning Vessels by Peter Luther: paperback#6: 2* The Doom of the Great City: ebook short-story#7: 5* Long After Midnight by Ray Bradbury: fraudio#8: 5* The Dead Zone by Stephen King: fraudio#9: TR The Chalice: hardback#10: TR Seven Gothic Tales: ebook#11: TR Tales of Men and Ghosts#12: 2* Shattered by Dean Koontz: fraudio
"Shattered" is an early Koontz title (1973), originally published under a pseudonym - K.R. Dwyer. Alex and Colin are on the move to Courtney, Colin's sister - and Alex's wife. The trip from Philadeplphia and San Francisco seems to be going good, until Colin spots a van following them.It's a short, but pleasant book. I enjoyed the setting - most of the book takes place on the road and in various motels. It's a nice book to spend 2-3 hours reading. The ending is a let-down, but it's rather common in his works.I was surprised by racists undertones.
Guy and brother are then tyrannized by girl’s old suitor along the way.It’s kinda like Steven Spielberg’s “Duel”, except with two people in the car and an Automover van instead of a truck, and many more scenes at diners and motels.What makes it so special, is the mental condition of said suitor.
But Colin is a lot more: he works as a mirror for Alex and helps him realize that he must stop being a little kid himself and act as a grown up human being.I think this appeals to many male readers.
Good, simple story.
So this was very much in keeping with a lot of my favourite movies from the Seventies, films like Duel, The Car, Race With The Devil, basically films where people get chased by maniacs in cars. And it had that post-Vietnam, post-Kennedy assassination paranoia and that sense of America in schism, all things i love, so i totally enjoyed this...but also it was obvs kinda trashy and not particularly stylish. This October i'm just going to read trashy horror. Or just trashy trash.
A great cross-country chase novel. Looking back after re-reading this, it feels like Koontz was getting into a good groove with characters and a basic plot he fleshed out a little at a time in his work.
Despite an amazingly abrupt last chapter (wherein Koontz apparently forgets the premise of his own book), Shattered delivers plenty of good old fashioned pulp thrills.I just wish Koontz would take things a bit further. You're writing horror, mate! Don't be shy!
When I was a young child, I tried to read several adult books (King, Koontz, Rice, etc).
From the description I expected this book to have a paranormal twist -- like King's "Trucks." (I haven't read that one in years and can't recall if I liked it, but out of his many stories, that one stayed with me.)"Shattered" does not have a paranormal element.
I was actually really impressed by this book, which was much more timeless than King's work.
King's work is often dated with what seem like obscure pop references today -- not so with Koontz.
Consequently, I cast about for something that can be read in a distraction-rich environment, and this time I ended up with Shattered.(The only other time I've read a Dean Koontz novel was under exactly the same conditions.) This one concerns Doyle, a young man driving cross-country with the 11-year-old brother of the woman he has just married.
The situation is a game at first, but things quickly become creepy and then downright scary.The parts that violated credibility for me were (a) apparently Doyle knows nothing about the crazy ex-boyfriend's existence, (b) he avoids telling his bride what is happening on their nightly phone calls, and (c) he is unaccountably slow in seeking help from the cops.
Courtney is in San Francisco while Alex is in Philadelphia with he 11 year old brother Colin.
Since Courtney is getting the house ready and got there early by plane that means Colin and Alex will drive the Thunderbird across country and maybe even bond a bit on the way.George can't get his mind off of Courtney.
Once you get a bit of info where you think you have everything figured out you get to hear the other side and are then sent for another loop.The best parts of "Shattered" was the car chase.
and that's one awesome way of telling a scary story.The other cool thing is...
Why not get the girl to fly to California and let the lads do a road trip to bond.
Then psycho ex-boyfriend can follow them.
New boyfriend is obviouly a planner who has the route set out with all the motels on the way.This means psycho can get hold of the route and follow them in a bloody great van.
Cat and mouse chase ensues with its conclusion in California.
I musn't complain too much, it's sent me to sleep for the past few nights (so much for the thriller bit!)
Me esperaba más del bueno de Koontz.
La historia es muy simple, monótona, sin muchas sorpresas ni giros muy inesperados, aunque eso si, es directa, sin muchas concesiones a la introspección de los personajes ni a farragosas descripciones; en esencia, acción y diálogos.El final no es nada original.
Para más inri, la traducción es mala de narices, con expresiones y tiempos verbales ya en desuso, además de una puntuación algo extraña y forzada...
A lo mejor, el hecho que fuera una de sus primeras obras explica la baja calidad de la misma...
En definitiva, una novela prescindible.

The story to shattered is nothing out of the ordinary, not cunning or fantastic in any way.
It's just an ordinary tale like many others.
What makes this book good, is the way that an ordinary tale has been told.
Koontz writes in a very natural way.
The characters and story are so down to earth and believable that you don't even have to try to believe in them - you just do.It's hard to see, just by staring at the words, why Koontz's prose are so natural and flowing, but they are.
This is a good entertaining read.
Wow I am still reeling from the shock...but sadly the shock comes only from having just experienced such an uninspired and poorly written story.
It's bland.
The whole thing feels...just dull.
So dull that I actually couldn't come up with a simile that would do the dullness justice.
I'm sure Stephen King would have a field day with this though being the simile addict he is.
The characters are unrealistic (especially the 11 year old boy who basically talks and acts like an adult throughout) and they are SO dumb and SO annoying that you can't help but wish for them to die...horribly.
This being my first Koontz read, I was a tad disappointed. It was a very predictable tale and after chapter 2 I knew how the story would end. Not what I Expected! I was hoping for a Thriller-Mystery with a twist that would spin everything around and an ending that would leave me wanting more. After all the raves and compliments given to Koontz, I guess I picked the wrong story.I did like Koontz’s writing style nevertheless and I will try some of his other work, just not very soon.
Soooo much better than Breathless or TickTock (2 of my more recent bad Koontz reads). This book is intense from page 1 til the end. Nothing unique about the story itself (psycho ex boyfriend stalks woman's family) so for that reason it's hard to give it five stars but Dean executes this baby well. These are the kind of books that MADE Koontz the "other big author who's name begins with K"
Early Koontz is almost solely responsible for my horror obsession. Before I found out about all the other amazing writers now gracing (weighing down to the point of bowing) my bookshelves, I read Koontz. His writing has gotten softer with age and his books now keep piling up in my TBR list, but I am a loyal fan and the man can write.
A decent, suspensful, quick read. Koontz usually doesn't get too cerebral. This story is just raw thrills with the good guys versus a madman from start to finish. Koontz is pretty darn good at creating madmen straight from your nightmares.
Really creepy, Dean Koontz' books are usually of this genre but Shattered seemed to me to be a cut above many of the rest with its originality and eerie imagery.
Intense novel!!!!
I love Dean Koontz, but this was not my favorite. Very predictable.
Shattered gets to the point faster than any other Koontz novel, and that's saying something.
Granted, this book is a good deal simpler than his later work -- and it is very dated in some respects -- but that adds to its charm.
The point is this novel did a number on me and chilled me more than any other Koontz book to date.
As I said before, this novel is a good deal simpler than his later works.
Shattered was a fun read from beginning to end.
Super short read, but exciting. I enjoyed it. The only thing, though, I didn't see a point to the parts about the detective. They never really went anywhere.
Courtney is already at their home, waiting for Alex and Colin to make their trip across the desert and reach their new home.
As Alex and Colin travel deeper into the desert, they discover a man does not want them to reach their new home, and he is doing everything in his power to keep them away from arriving to their new destination.
Their trip becomes a very horrifying fight for their life and the life of the stalkers obsession, Colins older sister, Courtney.
When I first picked up Dean Koontz’s Shattered, I thought, What the hell, maybe this will be okay.
It was a very early Koontz novel, and I could not tell whether or not it would be good when I skimmed the pages in my favourite used book store, Allison the Bookman.
R. Dwyer, Shattered nonetheless foreshadows a prolific career of many great thrilling novels to come.Pick it up at a used bookstore if you’re looking for a fun read over the course of a day or so.It is sort of unmemorable though...I can't for the life of me remember who the characters were or why they were doing what they were doing.
Story-wise, I'm hard-pressed to think of any book that's less ambitious than SHATTERED.
The plot is color-by-numbers simple, utterly predictable, and uncomfortably similar to that of the Richard Matheson/Steven Spielberg film, DUEL, which had been released in its first incarnation on TV just a short time before SHATTERED was published.
The characters are all especially very well developed for this type of story, and there are some interesting passages of Vietnam-related political subtext, but, ultimately, nothing Koontz does here elevates SHATTERED beyond being simply a mildly amusing way to kill some time, though I'll take it over DUEL any day.
