https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107303.Most_Secret
Serving in the Royal Navy during the war, Shute worked on ‘secret projects’ which I’m willing to bet are not a million miles away from the events of this tale Most Secret.This is the story of a daring initiative to equip a French fishing boat, Genevieve, with a flamethrower, to wreak havoc on the Germans close to the coast of occupied France.
Each has a back-story, which adds poignancy when events come to their conclusion.Shute adopts a retrospective approach to the action sequences, the actual operation itself: ‘this is what happened…’.
5 May 2016The reliably endearing quality of Shute's novels is still there, but is severely compromised in this one, I found, because of the exteme contrast between the charming genteel manners and personal interests of the characters, and their cold blooded desire to kill all Germans in the most gruesome manner possible, incinerating people with a flamethrower.
I have liked all of the other Shute novels I've read.
As it happens, while I was reading 'Most Secret' when I was camping, near us were a very nice German couple, and then a few days later, a nice young German couple on holiday in Australia camped right next to us.
His narrator is a Navy Commander, drawn into the scheme to bring fire to the Germans, who becomes invested in them and who tells their story in such a matter-of-fact way, but also manages to provide us with the emotion and caring he has for Simon, Boden, Rhodes and Colvin.
I thought as I read it, that yes, it's a pretty interesting story, but more and more I became invested in these characters, even with Rhodes' rabbit and by the end felt quite choked up with the ending and how everything turned out.
Shute writes in a very understated manner but at the same time manages to get you completely involved in his story.
The following description comes from the book's product overview: Aboard a fishing boat named “Genevieve,” a small group of British officers and French fishermen—armed only with a flame thrower and small arms—plan a secret commando mission against the might of the German army after the fall of France in World War II.
MOST SECRET is classic Shute: a thrilling tale of sacrifice and courage and the heroism of ordinary men that will keep readers on the edge of their seats.The moral dilemma for the characters is quite simple: Is it justifiable to use terrible weapon (a flame-thrower in this case) against the Nazis who have used the same and worse themselves?
This is a book I read years ago and I enjoyed it immensely. I’ve read all of Nevil Shute’s books. The best by far is “A Town Like Alice.”
Shute wrote this during WW2; it has a distinctive feel that perhaps the events are not actually fiction. A great read, I will definately pick up more by this author. A true story teller.
When I started reading this novel I assumed it had been written in the post war years, but there was an odd reference early on to the Royal Navy defeating an attempted German invasion of Britain in September 1940, something we know didn't really happen, which led me to check the date of authorship.
The story is built around the fates of four officers, 3 Navy and 1 Army, involved in carrying out the raids, with the operation overseen by Cmmdr.
More convoluted narrative devices that slowed the book down.
And ineffective.) But, that said, a thrilling war tale with great characters.
The attack on the Germans is a horrendous thing, really, but he takes time to make you believe they'd all been logically brought to this morally ambiguous place.It also struck me that there is no bloody way a book like this would be published today, with all that necessary character background.
Today Shute would be instructed to blow something up on page one, and keep blowing something up every few pages, and it'd be a far worse book for that.
In truth this is a bit of "Boys' Own..." fiction. It was written mid-way through WW2, although I believe that actual publication was delayed almost until war's end. I'm an admirer of Shute's work, but acknowledge that it can be variable. I enjoyed the book, but I feel it's important to bear in mind the context of 1942 - just after the worst of Hitler's Blitz on Britain - before rushing to judgement on some of the sentiment and morality. Certainly do not start on Shute with this novel!
Truly vintage Shute! If you had to read one book about war, especially the demands it makes, the heroism it evokes and the cost it levies on the participants, especially those on the front lines, then you cannot do worse than to pick this one up. Not only does Mr Shute depict with immaculate detail the planning and the very 'nuts and bolts' of operations, the stories of the characters and the very structure of the narrative are engrossingly engaging.
Great war story. Offers a better understanding of what French villages went through under German occupation. Nobody is a saint during war!
Early in WWII, when France was occupied by the Germans, a small group of Allied fighters devised a novel means of striking back and lifting the spirits of an occupied village (Douranenez) in Brittany.
One of the sardine fishing boats of this village somehow found its way into British hands.
Germans were said to be afraid of fire and to use fire as a weapon themselves.
The fishing boat was weaponized with a flamethrower and German (“rahmboats”) “ minder” boats that accompanied the sardine fleets were sprayed with oil & set on fire.
I enjoy reading Nevil Shute's books, some more than others. I'm not one who enjoys reading about war, but knows it goes on and in some circumstances has to go on. But having said that the story was seemed more about the characters than actually what they were having to do together. I liked the way the story panned out, but not one that I would re-read.
Not really my style, I got confused with another author when I bought it, but for a book of its genre, its very believable.
Engaging but uncomfortable (written about - and published in the immediate aftermath of - WW2). Anti-German sentiment high.
A warning note for those of a sensitive disposition: the accounts of the flame-thrower attacks are quite grisly and graphic.I like to think of this book as a sort of mixture of Eric Ambler and Nigel Balchin: the adventures are quite Amblerian, if one thinks of late (i.e. post-war) Ambler in particular; and the descriptions of the military organisation and follow-up of the raids on dry land in Devon and London are often quite Balchinesque (all those Whitehall offices) although the novel is of course very much Shute's own.
Charles Simon is an Englishman who was brought up in France, sent to public school in England, and then returned to work in France as a cement engineer.
Then, we have Commander Martin, who is sometimes narrator of the story, and who is nominally the head of the war-time operations described.
So, they get the boat outfitted with a flame thrower, and Rhodes concocts a rather deadly pyrotechnic mix to spew onto the Germans.
It was a bit more blood thirsty than I would like, but then I spent too much time in Sunday School as a youngster.
In the middle of WWII, a group of unlikely young men come up with a plan to sail a Breton fishing boat that somehow ended up in England back to France.
They plan to slip in with the fishing boats of Douarnenez under cover of night and destroy one or two of the German Raumboote that accompany the fishing fleet.
Still, there is something appealing in the description of the odd mixture of superstitions, wishful thinking and outright mutiny that erupts in Brittany after the first Raumboot is destroyed by an inexplicable fire explosion.
I couldn’t resist of thinking often about women knowing their place, because they really do like fluffy bunnies as the Wren did in this story.
Another time another place, but that was part of the charm of the book, if charm’s the right word because there was also a hard-headed realism about the necessary horror of war, a flinty outlook that recognised that in such a situation there was just no time for empathy.
I like Nevil Shute, and while this wasn’t his best it was still quite a gripping and thoughtful read.
He oversaw operations taken by the British against the German occupation in France.
The actions involved a fishing boat (for benefit of disguise) infiltrating the waters off the coast and using flamethrowers to destroy the German ships and crew.
Nearly the first third of the book is taken up by introducing the crew of the boat.
When it finally got to the actual missions, I enjoyed it a little more but there are a bunch of British naval acronyms that I don't know and I found it bothered me and detracted from the story.
Who knows where I got this book or why.
And while I was reading it I thought it was a memoir while, in fact, it's a novel.
But I'm glad I had it and even gladder I read it!Most Secret is a novel written and set in England during the dark years of World War II when victory was at best a hope, not a certainty.
The book has aged well although it's black and white depiction of good guys (the English and French freedom fighters) and bad guys (Germans) is one glaring weakness.
Love how the narrator is known to us as a minor character who interjects his thoughts and opinions from time to time. He seems like a delightful, stiff upper lip with a sentimental streak kind of fellow. Shute tells a story like he personally had it told to him and now he's passing it along.The story itself is not one of his best but it's likely that that old easy chair you always find yourself in is not the best piece of furniture you own. It's just so familiar and comfortable that it's where you feel at home.
Another great book by Nevil Shute. In this one a motley group take over a French fishing vessel, do damage to the Germans in Brittany, and bring hope to the fishermen of Douarnenez. Simon, born of an English father and French mother is working in France when the Germans come in. He does some spying and then gets to England and leads the group. One man is American; one signs up after his wife is killed in an early blitz on London; and the last is a chemist. The personalities are well described, and the story is good.
I'm a HUGE Nevil Shute fan. I adore his characters, his writing style, his characters, and his plots. Having said that, this is probably my least favourite book of his, simply because of the theme. Four British guys who all hate the Germans form a small commando unit with the express purpose of burning Germans to death with a newfangled flamethrower. Certainly this book was written in a different time and place, but I just couldn't get past the horror. I still love Shute, though.
I first read this in 1956 and have re-read it now because my son and daughter and I are all reading (or re-reading) Shute as the case may be. I didn't remember this one at all, and aside from the grim subject matter of killing Germans by flame throwers during World War II, I enjoyed the book. Shute takes the time to give the background stories of his main characters so that the reader really gets to know and identify with them as the story goes on.
Another fine WWII novel from Shute, with the usual mix of technical detail (in this case spy missions, flamethrowers, boats) and ordinary people that rise to the occasion and act nobly under pressure. This one had a little less strong of a plot and framing than some of his others, but if you're a Shute fan, you'll enjoy it anyway.
Good, but not a great Nevil Shute because too many details on characters' lives and fictional sea skirmishes with the Nazis. Written during WWII and illustrates the British and French Resistance determination to kill German soldiers, as many as possible, and in any way possible - e.g. using a floating flamethrower.
Not my favorite of Shute's books, but certainly a good tale of WWII. There was a bit too much of jumping between the internal narrator and the characters themselves telling their own stories. Even with that, it was still a very enjoyable read and I'm happy to recommend it.BTW, the page count for this edition is 281 pages.
Classic Shute. A group of free French fishermen and British officers crew Genvieve to lead raids on German boats. Shute brings to the reader the stories of Genvieve's flawed, earnest and heroic crew.
I think N. Shute is a brilliant writer. I read most of his novels and found them interesting. There is always a streak of romance in them. But the people are real people, simple and described with lots of details. I like his description of war-torn Britain and what it does to people.
