https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/292217.Free_Fall_in_Crimson
In Free Fall, in fact, McGee laments that he’s always wanted more than just the fleeting connections, facing up to the wide swath he’s cut through the opposite sex over the years.It’s like old times for Travis and Lysa — almost — but MacDonald has improved as a writer in the books between Quick Red Fox and Free Fall, and I find the Lysa Dean here a much better character now that she’s a bit older.
MacDonald’s best moments as a writer came in the Travis McGee series.
That’s accurate which proves that you can’t always believe old adages.Travis McGee agrees to look into the murder of a wealthy man.
McGee gets to do his usual thing of acting as both con man and detective to try and figure out who killed the rich old bastard and there’s a decent mystery for him to unravel.
Because a woman could never just earn an important job like running a hotel if she hadn’t been trained in the ways of business by the guy she was banging.
McGee consults with his neighbor Meyer, a retired economist, who knows Ellis Esterland's personal secretary and partner Anne Renzetti.
Traveling to Naples, where Anne works as a hotel manager, McGee finds what he feels is a kindred spirit with Anne, who like him, has had to pick up the pieces after the death of someone she loved, or felt she loved."I've been over it ten thousand times.
Operating on the theory that their director Peter Kesner put them up to snuffing out Esterland so that Josie would inherit his estate, McGee visits an old flame in L.A., TV game show producer Lysa Dean.
But this book was just kinda -- meh.
Which is surprising because you would think a book with motorcycle gangs, pornography rings, and people falling out of hot air balloons would be kinda exciting.
It was like he read Around the Wold in 80 days, watched a couple James Bond flicks, and followed that up with an Easy Rider/road movie marathon and felt he could easily combine the three things.
To me it felt like MacDonald wasn't sailing this novel.
But MacDonald writing about it is like talking dirty with an unmarried uncle.
Our hero starts to feel creeping age slowing him down a little and wonders whether it's time to find another line of work, when he's hired by a successful painter to discover the reason his terminally ill father was beaten to death in the middle of nowhere.
The search leads him into the arms of Anne Renzetti, a hotelier who was acquainted with the dead man, but also forces him to enter the dangerous world of outlaw motorcyclists, uncover a porn ring and a trail that winds like a rattlesnake and proves twice as deadly.Beautifully written, fabulously plotted and filled to the brim with social commentary still relevant today.
A solid entry in the McGee series. Not as much social commentary as in some of the previous books but also missing is the slightly offensive remarks about women & sex that sometimes appear; that is a trade-off I can live with!
We are all comical, touching, slapstick animals, walking on our hind legs, trying to make it a noble journey from womb to tomb, and the people who can't see it all that way bore hell out of me.There is a plot, however, to Free Fall in Crimson, and I imagine you'd like me to get on with it...There is this dude, Ron, you see, and his very wealthy dad was killed, presumably by a mugger, at a rest stop.
The story keeps the book moving quickly and many interesting characters get to play, including Lysa Dean, the sexy, shallow movie star Travis worked for in A Quick Red Fox.Free Fall in Crimson is a late McGee - written in '81 - and there are only two stories left in the series.
It all starts out with a confusion over inheritance rights involving a considerable amount of money.
As Travis begins to get involved in this, he also learns that one of the potential suspects is a member of a large biker group.
This biker group is composed of a bunch of men who live outside the normal code of ethics.
After considerable effort, McGee finds what is likely to be the end use of the inherited money; it is used to produce feature films on biker subjects.
MacDonald manages to expose the activities of the group, but soon becomes the focus of the leader’s rage.
Actually, I think that because of this near disaster, and others, Velcro-strips may have been eliminated from Hot Air Balloons.
On my rides the pilots had a cord to pull that would open a Velcro strip in the side of the balloon to quickly dump the air out to make landings safer in the event of high wind.
Problem was, if the pilot used the Velcro strip on the first or second trips, he would have to re-assemble and re-inflate the balloon from scratch, which would take time and expend propane.
The second ride banged the balloon around quite a bit, which apparently loosened but didn’t quite break the Velcro strip.
This time around, his female companion is the luscious Anne Renzetti, ex-secretary of the murdered tycoon.
Sometimes, his prose is hard-nosed and at other times, it’s lyrical, viz: ‘… moving in that sweet silence across the scents, the folds, the textures of the soft green April country’ when describing McGee’s first air-balloon journey.MacDonald’s McGee crime books are hardboiled.
The muscular mind is a cutting tool, and contemporary education seeks to take the edge off it.’Yes, he breaks the rule about characters spouting long swathes of speech, but he seems to get away with it.
Of all the "Travis McGee" adventures that I've read, so far this was the most gruesome, and cleverly written with the big bad guy on the loose!Ronald Esterland went to visit Travis McGee asking a favor to look for his father's killer.
The millionaire Ellis Esterland who was beaten up to death in Citrus City, on River County.
McGee as a good salvage consultant get a lead on the two bikers Dirty Bob (Desmin Grizzle), and the Senator (Curley Hanner)whom both works for Peter Kasner writer/director/producer.While McGee working as a fake consultant in "Take Five Productions" in the employ of Lysa Dean the queen of the game shows.
They are there, but the little neural pathways that serve as the bridges to my consciousness have been removed.
All that is left of these memories are general feelings about their disposition as being good, bad, or indifferent.
The Travis McGee novels bring to mind a lot of good general feelings and in my younger days, these books served as a gateway into reading.
There were certain points throughout this book where those neuron bridges snapped into place and trapped memories came into being as if they had never left.
in this one, mcgee is asked to discover what happened to ron esterland's father...and from that point the story follows a number of branches...to iowa, to los angeles, to a biker hangout called the oasis, and there is also a sideline, annie over in naples running a hotel now.
there's been a growing sense that mcgee is ready to hang up his cleats, the past few stories, the idea is expressed, questioning his ability to react, his timing...and in this one, he enlists a couple baddies to make the day.

Not much of a plot. Too much small talk.
I had not read any others in the series and it took me a while to get into it, but once I did I enjoyed it.
As a general rule, a mystery series is on half-way to dog-tired when the author starts combining unlikely elements and gimmicky background in an effort to freshen things up.
Hot-air balloons and motorcycle gangs, an unlikely enough combination, are added to independent movie-making as the improbable setting for this 19th Travis McGee caper.
The job leads our modern-day “knight of the windmills” (p70) to revisit a major character from Book Four, talk his way onto a doomed movie set in Iowa (!) and become the target of a psycho biker with serial murder on his tiny, drug-addled mind.
Travis McGee is approached by a young artist whose millionaire father was beaten to death in a lay-by a couple of years before.
The old man had been dying of cancer, with only a couple of months left to him, and there’s a suspicion that he might have stopped in the lay-by to buy illicit drugs to help him through his last weeks.
Travis McGee goes after an inheritance that leads him to Hollywood and an auteur making a movie about hot-air balloons. The author skewers art films and the blowsy intelligensia that accompanies art films. The author categorical rejects film as art and relegates them with television as mass media. Travis now has Meyer as a full and lippy partner and has to rely on unsavory characters – drug dealing, motorcycle gangs – to finish off the bad guys. It is a way of saying the world has become a darke
Travis McGee goes after an inheritance that leads him to Hollywood and an auteur making a movie about hot-air balloons.
The author skewers art films and the blowsy intelligensia that accompanies art films.
The author categorical rejects film as art and relegates them with television as mass media.
Travis now has Meyer as a full and lippy partner and has to rely on unsavory characters – drug dealing, motorcycle gangs – to finish off the bad guys.
It is a way of saying the world has become a darker, harder place.
Good solid late Travis McGee entry. Ties in with one of his earlier cases (The Quick Red Fox) and therefore has a sense of nostalgia (at least in my opinion). Also ,as always, there are the sharp criticisms of America and the usual curmudgeonly pessimism that is so entertaining and thoughtful. The intelligent world weariness of Travis McGee and Meyer. Always entertaining if slightly depressing, but in a good way.
Another great book in the Travis MCGee series by John MacDonald. McGee assists the son of a millionaire find out why the father died. McGee finds out it was murder and it leads a path to him as he is next.
✭✭✭
Travis McGee, Meyer and I have been friends since I was14.
MacDonald and McGee are at the top of their game in this one.
Trav is BACK!
After a fairly sappy book 18 (The Green Ripper) our hero McGee finally gets himself out of the Gretel rut in the most Travis McGee way possible....by hopping in the sack with another nubile young lady.
He gets his old groove back by investigating the mysterious death of a millionaire which takes him out to LA and his old client Lysa Dean (Quick Red Fox), a band of outlaw bikers, an underground porn ring, and a live movie about balloons.
Plenty of fights, mystery, intrigue, women throwing themselves all over Trav, boats, shootouts, balloons, and bravado to do a novel proud.
Another well-written episode in the classic Travis McGee series of mysteries by one of the acknowledged masters of the genre. MacDonald's use of language, his attention to keeping the plot tight without many sidetracks and his thorough characterizations always lead to an entertaining and rewarding reading experience. This book involves a shady movie maker, hot-air ballooning, outlaw motorcycle gangs, and the decent people on the "good" side - and it all fits together nicely, yielding another minor masterpiece.
I guess people don’t like this one either but i think MacDonald was trying to do something a little different. After 19 books, who can blame him? New dimensions to the main characters were welcome for me. They’re his characters and he can do what he wants with them. Doesn’t mean everyone has to like it though.
I really enjoyed this. Travis is still out their saving the day. I love this series and now that I am coming up on the end, I wish it could go on. It has so much character, humor and emotions in it. Keeps you hooked all the way.
Another solid effort by John D. MacDonald. Definitely jumped around which kept you guessing and it is interesting to see how much Travis McGee is changing as he gets older. Nice to see some of the characters from older books make an appearance but not so nice as to what happens to some of them.
With this and the previous book The Green Ripper, MacDonald seems to be struggling to make Travis McGee relevant before ultimately giving up on him. The Green Ripper was more fun with the bloodbath.
