https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/900093.Thomas_the_Impostor
The two co-wrote a number of texts, and the case has been made that Cocteau's  Le grand écart was inspired by Radiguet's Le diable au corps, and his  Thomas l'imposteur  was inspired by Radiguet's Le bal du comte d'Orgel.
The case has also been made that between Radiguet's death and the publication of Le bal du comte d'Orgel Cocteau re-wrote Radiguet's book.
But Cocteau suddenly drops this promising line, and the book's tone changes.Abruptly, the impostor excitedly finds himself at the front in Belgium; granted, it is not a hot zone, because the Belgian royal family lives close by.
Dalsi kniha Honzy Koktala a ja uz asi muzu s ledovym klidem rict, ze si mnoho nerozumime (a to je u surrealistu zridkakdy).
I tentokrate je to tak poeticke, ze jsem mel alespon dvanactkrat chut skocit do studny.
Nehlede na to, ze ackoliv jsem cetl strizlivy, mel jsem prvnich asi 200 problem zjistit, kdo je kdo, co se deje a proc jedou autem.
Proc nikdo nezmini, ze se nehraje ligovej fotbal?
Nechtel jsem spoilerovat, ale budu: prave jsem hodil knizku na stul a dopadla hrbetem nahoru, ale spadla z okraje stolu - kniha tedy nedopadne dobre!
this is an interesting book. It's very much the opposite of the boy hero in johnny tremain and I think probably a lot more true to life. How does a sixteen year old end up on the front lines? What do they do? Aren't french people awesome. This review should be longer, but the book was quite short and I can think of nothing else to say that might not be a spoiler. It has no interesting gimmicks or french dirtiness.
من واقعا متوجه نشدم چرا این اثر یه شاهکاره. خیلی سطحی و حوصله سر بر بود برام. نه در عمق کاراکترها تونستم برم، نه خود داستان پیچش خاصی داشت، نه فضاسازی ها عمیق بود ... دوستش نداشتم واقعا
An interesting premise led me to pick this up, but wow, does this book fizzle. The writing is unfocused and weak -- perhaps the result of poor translation? Maybe the film is better.
This is a brilliant little book, an essay in foolishness essentially, it's a farce that reflects on the individual, and also modern western society. It's slick and subtle narration lends it a freshness that makes it read with seemingly timeless ease. Some arresting and beautiful images, sometimes of horrific realities, married to a few precious sketches by Cocteau, imbue the book with an ethereal quality. The adventures of Guillaume are loosely based on Cocteau's own experiences in the trenches of first world war France. Finally, it is humane, and sane, and very funny.
A young man goes to fight in the first world war, but things aren't what they seem.
حتی یک ستاره هم زیاد بود . من نفهمیدم این کتاب از چه لحاظ مهمه. از بدترین و حوصله سربرترین کتابهای عمرم بود .احتمال میدم بخشی از جذابیت کتاب به نثر زیبای معروف کوکتو بر میگشت که متاسفانه در ترجمه چیزی نمود پیدا نکرده بود .مزخرف
A novel first published in French in 1923 (as Thomas l'imposteur), it is set in France during World War I and was based on the author's experiences as an ambulance driver during the war.
The central character is a 16 year old boy named Guillaume Thomas de Fontenoy who passes himself off as the nephew of the famous General de Fontenoy and so is able to become an associate of the Princesse de Bormes and her daughter Henriette who falls in love with him.
Although too young for military service, he wants to get to the Western Front to see the action which he eventually does.
4.12 starsSharp character descriptions and observations on the lives we lead and the lies we feed. A fun little departure. Sputtered out by the time it ended though.
I'm surprised that I'm little bit bored with this story already. Not enough to give up on it though...hope it gets better. The characters are interesting.
Read this in French in high-school. I loved Cocteau then and still love to read great quotations from his works.
pitko.
Pretty good. Pervasively abrupt. Then it ends. Liked it. Didn't love it.
