https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49250.D_Day_June_6_1944
I was therefore eagerly awaiting the publication of your new book about D-Day. It finally arrived at our bookstore and I immediately began, greedily, to devour it.As it turns out, last Tuesday, I journeyed to Altoona, one-hundred miles east of here, to take my father to a hospital for some exploratory surgery.
I think we both felt our coincidental meeting was more special than odd.He left and I sat there holding your book, full of heroes like George Adams and the man I was waiting for.My Dad was all right: just some hemorrhoids.
As a brit this book really annoyed me. It’s not about the Normandy landings; it’s about the American landing on Omaha Beach. At every opportunity Ambrose trivialises and criticises the British, Canadian and other allied forces while giving us a chest thumping partisan view of the unequalled bravery of the Americans. The bias is embarrassing and a colossal show of disrespect to the soldiers of every other nation in the allied forces.
My father (Warner Hamlett -D-Day vet and still doing well) was interviewed and quoted in this book.
He is 93 years old and relives WWII every night in his dreams.
He still goes out to his homemade bomb cellar during thunderstorms and screams in his sleep.Stephen Ambrose is an excellent author.
The book tells the story of D-Day soldiers through their own words.I can tell you myself, Daddy’s stories have never changed over the years and Mr. Ambrose (who interviewed my father personally) did an excellent job of telling his story and quoting him verbatim.
Stephen Ambrose enjoyed tremendous popularity in the 1990's with his WWII books about the fighting in Northwestern Europe.
Of course a historian enjoying such popularity means that other historians and history buffs will be examing his/her's work with a fine tooth comb.
However I feel that it should be pointed out that "D-Day:June 6, 1944" is a little different.
As a result I think "D-Day" presents a more balanced account of the fighting and the soldiers.
This day has been covered by hundreds of writers in the past seventy years, but it's still a readable account.
Reading this you'd be forgiven for thinking that the US was alone at Normandy. One-eyed puffery and tabloid in its execution, as is Ambrose's way. There are vastly better books on D-Day (Beevor and Hastings for a start).
This book is based on the oral histories of 1,400 men who were involved in D-Day. The majority of the book deals with one 24 hour period.
In this book you get to meet and know some of the men who were there.
In this book you meet a 15 year old (he lied about his age in order to enlist) and a 16 year old.
There have been many movies about D-Day and they can be entertaining but to really learn about this day in history and appreciate the men who made this happen I would recommend reading this book.
Wonderful. I highly recommend Ambrose for historical reading. He makes things interesting and detailed and you feel like you really get to know somewhat what it was like being there. I will definitely be reading his other books. It's embarrassing that it took me almost 7 months to read this one though! This book was a testimony to me that Heavenly Father was with those soldiers that day. It reminded me of Captain Moroni and the title of liberty-when you are fighting for your liberty and your wives and children then God will be with you.
This book was terrible. It was biased, factually inaccurate and reflected the author's sycophantic relationship with Eisenhower rather than any objective understanding of the events of June 6 1944.
The greatest generation.
Our HomeFronts have given us an overwhelming superiority in weapons and munitionsof war, and placed at our disposal great reserves of trained fighting men.The tide has turned!
Percaya dan yakinlah, bahwa kemerdekaan suatu negara yang didirikan di atas timbunan runtuhan ribuan jiwa harta benda dari rakyat dan bangsanya, tidak akan dilenyapkan oleh manusia siapapun juga.” (Pangsar Sudirman, 5 Oktober 1949)Pidato lain yang banyak dikutip di dunia maya, Anak-anakku, tentara Indonesia, kamu bukanlah serdadu sewaan tetapi tentara yang berideologi yang sanggup berjuang dan menempuh maut untuk keluhuran tanah airmu.
Erwin Rommel was a German Field Marshal during World War 2, known as the Desert Fox, who, after fighting in the North African deserts, was sent to defend the AtlantikWall against the incoming D-Day invasions.
The Great War, especially because not only did I serve admirably, but I was fighting for something good, something much better than what I fought for in the Second World War. I also my family is also one of the things I am most proud of and I ended up taking my own life dishonorably rather than have my family hurt because of my actions.”Jackson: “What would you say you like the most about Dwight D.
It is a great place to start reading his series of books about WWII.
It would be great to read this and Pegasus Bridge at the same time.
Standing there with the dead behind me and the sacred shore before me, I felt a huge surge of sadness, suffering, patriotism, honor, sacrifice and holiness wash over me all at once.
I felt honored to be at the cemetery, but unworthy to walk where those men willingly, knowingly gave there lives.
With over 9,000 emblems of Christ's sacrifice for us behind me, and the sandy emblem of those 9,000 dead in front of me, all I could do was weep.Ambrose got it right.
I am currently listening to this audio book while at the same time reading the paperback of Anthony Beevor's D-Day book. I don't usually do that, listen to an audio book and read a paper copy book on the same topic. But in this case I am enjoying doing it, as I am really getting a full scope picture of this fascinating time in American history.
Extraordinarily interesting anecdotes? Check. Chest-thumping patriotism? Check. Unbiased, carefully vetted history? Ehhhhhh.
There are no maps of the British beaches, which is half the invasion.
[My standard beef with military histories is this: Do Not Mention A Town or Village, Unless You Give Us A Map That Shows Where It Is.]-- The British and Canadian beaches are given relatively short shrift, which goes along with the lack of detailed maps of those sectors.-- Yeah, it shoulda been about a hundred pages longer.
Ambrose had written about the Pegasus Bridge operation, he knew a good deal about the left half of the operation, but he spent 28% of the entire text on Omaha Beach.
On June 6, 1944, the United States and Great Britain led the Allied forces in a full-scale invasion of the Normandy coast in Northern France.
Stalin demanded that the Allies open up a new front to relieve some of the pressure on Soviet Forces.
Deception, surprise, decoys, new technologies, and just sheer numbers and firepower enabled the Allies to establish a beachhead, officially opening a strong second front to the European Theater of World War II.I found this book to be just phenomenal.
For just about every stage of the invasion, every event, there is an eye-witness account of what happened.
An excellent piece of research and writing. Another reminder of what the "greatest generation" did for our nation and our world. We as Americans need to utilize the insights provided to us by our ancestors to pull together and work with one another to improve the plight of all Americans. What has happened to our nation? The greed, the self-centeredness? Where is our sense of community? I am so proud of the people of this era who came together for the common good. I hope and pray that our generation or future generations can do the same.
Wauw! Je zult zo kunnen schrijven over zo'n onderwerp. Het leest echt als een roman. Superboek.
This book is a factual account of the greatest large scale operation that took place during World War II in which the Allied nations (The United States of America, United Kingdom, Canada, and Free France) launched a massive seaborne and airborne assault on the 6th of June 1944 to liberate France from Nazi fanaticism.
The success of which would bring about peace and democracy for the future generations to come.The planning phase for the invasion took almost two years.
Stephen Ambrose makes things interesting and makes readers feel as if they are transported back in time to witness the gallantry and bravery of men involved in the gruesome fight for freedom.
Fantastic! Really long, but fantastic. I love a non-fiction that uses so many stories to convey its message; exactly what happened here. The last chapter is a great wrap up with, what I believe to be, spot on analysis.

Ever since I went to Normandy Beach in France, I have been obsessed with World War 2.
This is when American fought Germany for the independent of France.
It scared me; I was standing on the same beach where thousands of men died.
Bombs went off sending people flying by the limbs.
Its about the warrior’s journey thought Germany and France, amazing thing they did and people who were interviewed.
I cried after I closed the book but went to the computer to read more.
Finally, this book is for all lovers of history and violence.
Ambrose’s account of D-Day is a milestone work of vivid, intricate planning details leading up to the historic invasion and the agony and halting successes of the wrenching day itself.
This book brought me into an up-close view of the action, resulting destruction, improvised plans, and wrenching accounts of those directly involved.
The scale of the invasion unfolded for hours, shocking German forces that were ultimately worn down by the unrelenting arrivals of airplanes, ships, soldiers, tanks, and supplies.
Numerous photos in the book show bits of the unfolding day.
Hundreds of quotations from soldiers were gathered and woven smoothly and often dramatically into the story.
I was lucky enough to be able to visit the Normandy beaches in France last summer, which was a very powerful and moving experience, and made me want to learn more about D-Day. Reading this book was also quite moving.
The chapters about the infantry at Omaha were particularly hard to read, as the descriptions of the casualties are simply horrifying.
I think I will never forget one interview in which the veteran stated that he would have to stop talking every so often, as the memories were so very real.
This book was really fascinating and I would recommend it to everyone.
What makes this book so good is Ambrose's narrative style, very much akin to Shelby Foote's writing in his works on the American Civil War. The weaving of personal stories and vignettes within the historic drama and facts of D-Day is what makes this book a classic for its subject.
The book will portray the grand canvas that was the start of the Western Allies' conquering of Hitler's Germany, and if it sparks a fire in you like it did in me regarding the Normandy Campaign, it will lead you to more detailed writings of the overall campaign.
Ambrose used over 1400 interviews for his history of the D-Day invasion.
The story is told from the individual and small unit level often failing to describe larger unit actions or explaining how the individual actions fit into the total picture.
These are simply good stories of many individual experiences.The book is not a textbook for lessons on strategic decision making or to answer big picture questions.
The individual courage and independence of the American small unit leaders is big story of this book.
Ambrose is right on target as he tells the story of their braveness and toughness.
This is another riveting historical rendition by Stephen Ambrose, both broad in scope but precise in details.
One cannot finish the book without a feeling of reverence for what truly can be called the "the greatest generation." A personal footnote: Years ago and after his involvement with writing the book, Ambrose spearheaded the building of the National D-Day Museum in New Orleans.
I had the opportunity to visit the museum and was truly impressed with the historical record it portrayed.
Later the museum was designated by Congress as the National World War II Museum.
At the operational level, he reports numerous first-hand stories of horrible mayhem and tremendous bravery.
The multiple levels of the story make it a rich, complex history--and a thriller.
For my purposes, research on the actions of a particular ship on D-Day, this was the best among three books I looked at.
The Longest Day by Cornelius Ryan is superbly researched and beautifully written but has little on the Naval action.
Anthony Beevor’s D-Day ; the Battle for Normandy, has a lot of detail but is not as readable as the other two and has little on the attack from the sea.
An entire society brainwashed to conquer the world and to enslave entire countries were not stopped by will power, or flower power, or by mere rhetoric.
Nazism was stopped by citizens from every walk of life in the world's great democracies -- the battle for freedom began on the beaches of northern France on June 6, 1944.
It may give you an identity that you did not even know you had -- the sons and daughters and grandchildren of an entire generation that secured for us every freedom we enjoy today.
I just finished reading—it took over a month-and-a-half—Stephen E.
Ambrose’s D-Day – June 6, 1944 The Battle for the Normandy Beaches.
Not counting the index and appendixes, it’s 583 fact-filled pages of narrative.
The statistics alone are mind-boggling.
Even with all the incorporated facts and figures, it was something of a page-turner.
It covers the planning and preparation, as well as the actual 24 hours which were D-Day, incorporating portions of hundreds of oral histories of many veterans who participated, American, British, German, and Russian.
I recommend this book to any student of history, especially that of the “Greatest Generation.”
