https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/573373.Return_to_Paradise
This collection of essays and stories, originating out of a trip Michener and his wife took to various South Pacific locations during 1950, is the first book he wrote that is (partially) readable.
Michener reflects the basic sort of contradictions that still afflict many liberals today: he is quick to blame "Communism" for everything bad, but insists that improvements could be made if only labor had more rights(!); part of what bothers him about Australia and New Zealand is the "socialist" character of the governments (and he does accurately portray some of the problems state-socialism provided to its citizens), but still insists that things like free health care and a reduced work-week are what make these places great places to settle down in.
This book is almost 70 years old now and gives a fascinating insight into life in the South Pacific islands in 1951. The format of non-fiction material followed by a story is a good one although I find the last few chapters dragging; the stories are often about girls and love and the obvious sexism and racism that was around in 1951 is let's say, quite educational. Good writing and interesting reading, however!
This unusual collection comprises short essays about various Pacific islands with each one then followed by a fictional story set in the same locale.Michener's essays are OK, if a bit rambling.
In the Pacific islands Michener seems to have discovered a metaphor for the struggle between a controlled and controlling rationality and a vibrant and deep connection with emotions and desires.
Michener sometimes relies on characters that feel a bit clichéd, but his ability to evoke time and place is terrific and he knows the South Pacific very well.
Yet the stories that follow, which rely upon those essays for their crispness and assumptions, are two of the best in the book, especially "Until They Sail," the story of four New Zealand sisters who strike up romances with American troops during World War II.
You quickly come to expect them, and, for that reason, they lose their punch, although never their shock.These two works of Michener, Tales of the South Pacific and Return to Paradise, for me, are his best works.
Written after spending a year with his wife in the various islands of the South Pacific in the late 1940s, Michener writes this fascinating novel as a prototype to the kind of geographical novels that Michener would devote most of the rest of his life writing; novels like "Chesapeake", "Texas", "Poland" and "Centennial"."Return to Paradise" is actually a combination travelogue-short story collection set in the various islands of the South Pacific.
Michener will take one chapter describing a given island, such as Tahiti, Fiji, Guadalcanal, New Guinea, New Zealand or Australia, and then devotes the next chapter to a short story set in that island.
Written in the late 1940s, these short stories are tales and recollections from Michener’s post-WWII revisit to the south Pacific islands.
From our perspective, this is a historical snapshot of a south Pacific adjusting to cultural changes brought about by WWII.
It depicts a transitional time before the south Pacific became a popular—and populated—vacation spot for Americans and Europeans.Many of the stories recall WWII events, as revisiting islands such as Guadalcanal bring up memories for Michener.
British and Americans eventually provided defense, and the clash of between these cultures is portrayed through the romantic encounters of the sisters in the family while the men are away at war.
I don't know if I was just paying more attention this time around or what, but it seems like Michener's voice had matured a bit (although he was already a master of his voice in the first one).
I say it's idealistic because his narrative bears out that human interaction and the tide of human events WILL tarnish this paradise, but the IDEA remains that there is a paradise that survives whatever humans do to it or in it, and Michener maintains the beauty even when there is human ugliness overlaying it.
Michener's "Tales of the South Pacific" was his crispest, most original work.
But "Return to Paradise," while picking up the themes of the fictional stories in "South Pacific" is a unique Michener work in that it combines essays on New Zealand, Australia, Fiji, Espiritu Santo, New Guinea and Rabaul.
His essay on Rabaul even ominously discusses the threat of volcanic activity, which would destroy the town in 1994.Michener spent a year in 1949 researching this book, traveling with his wife through the area that he served during World War II.
Michener's architecture for this book is unusual: alternating essays and short stories.
As always he is no slave to structure: the last essay is followed not by a short story, but by his closing thoughts on the South Pacific.
In this his third book, you can see the emergence of the writer to come; the first essay will be expanded into the first chapters of "Hawaii".Some of the issues he raises have played out over the years (the book came out 60 years ago), but I confess I am ignorant of the details.
Obviously Australia and New Zealand are still Commonwealth countries.
Here's the thing: cultural morays, values and perceptions were very different 50 years ago when this book was written. I had to get over my righteous indignation when it came to these different attitudes. After all, when we know better, we do better.Aside from that (which will disturb people) the stories themselves, including the characters are intriguing and fun. The exotic settings and background history are also satisfying.
I felt kind of guilty enjoying this book, because it is sooo politically incorrect by today's standards. Keeping in mind when it was written, though, helps. It took me about 1/3 of the way in to get into the rhythm of the book - travel-log, story, travel-log, story, etc. If you like Michener (and I do!), then you'll probably like this book.
Mr Michener is superb as always.. brings the deceptively languid isles of the Pacific to life with full colour and clarity...
I have been thinking about the islands lately, so this was a perfect read for that reason alone.
Michener's writing takes you there! Visit the South Pacific! Go!
Michner takes us back to the South Pacific and captured my heart and soul.
This book format is different than any I have read before.
Mr. Michener would wrote a chapter about the different islands in the South Pacific giving the details that he knew about the island.
Then he would follow it with a fiction story based on that island.
I found it a little hard in the audio format to keep track of what was being read.
The person reading the audiobook did not indicate when chapters changed, so it was hard to know if what I was listening to was his factual chapter or the fiction one.
I read an earlier printing, back when I was a kid, of this Bantam paperback edition, which belonged to my father and which I gave away years ago. This book was written as a follow up to Michener's "Tales of the South Pacific", after he and his wife returned to some of the areas he had seen in the military in World War II. So it is part travelogue commenting on various aspects of the places they visited - cultural, political, etc. - and part fictional stories set in those locations.
Paradise , Holding In Your HandsJames A.Michener, thank You for taking me away to a place I will never see in person! I so enjoyed this look at the Islands through your Eyes and Writing. I feel Enchanted. A Five was a given!
Interesting and well-written stories, as long as you don’t mind rampant racism, colonialism, and misogyny. Had me cringing every other sentence.
Written in 1951. Essays and stories about the South Pacific. Interesting viewpoint.
enchanting
Certainly now a little out of date, however his perceptive observations more than make it a worthwhile read.
On oldie, but a goodie- its age makes it even better. its a collection of first hand imperialist back-packer-in-the-So.-pacific travelogue, back in the days after WWII, followed by charming short stories. Its history, its culture (of the islands and the times!) AND fun stories. I loved this great throwback. Besides, its Michener- nuff said.
If you're going to dig into Michener, this isn't the place to start.
But Michener was still developing in 1951, and even though South Pacific was a big hit on Broadway by the time he wrote this, his conclusions were pretty colored by a fairly recent and deeply personal war.
As a writer, since I've read so much of his later work, I found it interesting to see "the missing link" in his development; his approach to archetypes beginning, his extensive travel, his quick summaries of a people group through the lens of an American (who sometimes strikes me as wishing he were British).
In a way, different from Tales From the South Pacific----yet similar also as regards the non-fiction chapters. You can really see where Michener started his signature writing----the in-depth history of a state or area mixed in with fiction. This book does it in a very formal way, alternating non-fiction and fiction (short story) chapters. I was fascinated since it is certainly a period piece---prices of things in the early 50's, for example. Good book---good history (which was current events when Michener wrote it!). Will probably tackle Rascals in Paradise next, or at least soon.
Not a fun entertaining book to read - but I learned alot about the South Pacific I never knew before so it was worth reading. This is a collection of essays James wrote about the South Pacific and I enjoyed the fictional stories more then the detailed accounts. It made me curious to know what the current situation of these islands were as of todate vs. post world war II to see if what he predicted came true. Intresting perspective on how the war was for the islanders.
One of the best books by Michener on his beloved South Seas. This book is not just a series of short stories. It also includes a wealth of information and history about the islands in Ploynesia, Melanesia, and Meganesia (Australia), from a geopolitical point of view. It's definitely worth a read for anyone who is interested in that part of the world.
Never heard of it, but found it in my Michener collection. Well... not one of his better books, but it was a totally different format for his writing, so I found that part of it interesting. It was a collection of essays, of which he put stories to each essay. As always, I learned alot from this book. A lot of it focused on colonization of the Islands by the Europeans.
Another book to read before my trip to Tahiti and the Society Islands in September of 2009. I enjoyed reading the essays followed by the stories. While fiction, the stories gave another view of the "truth."
I have read this book a couple of times in conjunction Tales of the South Pacific. I found its insights on the area insightful and prophetic given when it was written. Have an maps and Wikipedia to really get the most out of it.
