https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4476877-patricia-brent-spinster
On the plus side is better-than-usual writing, and some of the secondary characters are absolutely delightful, especially the father-in-law of the MP Patricia works for, Peter's sister (who decides to take things into her own hands with her brother's problematic romance), and Peter himself.
A couple of my favorite quotes:Mrs. Mosscrop-Smythe was Miss Wangle's toady; but she wrapped her venom in Christian charity, thus making herself the more dangerous of the two.Patricia's run-ins with her formidable aunt:"Well, Aunt Adelaide," she continued, turning to Miss Brent, "this is an unexpected pleasure.
Humor inglés a tope :DMe ha recordado a esas películas clásicas de enredos tipo 'La fiera de mi niña' que tanto me gustan :)
A cute romance.
It's set in the early 1900's so we have to look past all the sexism.
Besides you can't smack a fictional character upside the head no matter how much we want.
I assume the author was trying to bring up her intense pride as a barrier to her romance with the handsome and sweet young lord.
But he brought her across as a bitch intent on not being made to look ridiculous.
Most of the humor fell flat but there were a few good scenes.
Some of the side characters were a bit interesting.
But not worth wasting time on.
The story is charming and the characters are fun and dynamic (if somewhat idealized in a British classist kind of way).While I had a good time with the book, some markers of the era are telling and a little off-putting.
Interestingly, while Jenkins' female characters occasionally fulfill their ascribed roles, they also frequently flout them--and in ways that work to refute the author's own narrative assertions (which would have been terribly clever if I thought he'd done it on purpose).
It turns out that he published many of Wodehouse's novels and, in retrospect, you can kind of see how this book has a touch of Wodehouse flavor (in a non-derivative or lame way).
Ambientada en Londres en 1918 en plena Primera Guerra Mundial, Patricia Brent de unos 27 años, soltera, es secretaria de un miembro de la Cámara de los comunes, vive en una pensión con un grupo de personas bastante maliciosas, cotillas y metomentodos, aburridas que lo único que tienen que hacer es observar al resto de habitantes de la casa y criticar.
El único problema es que este joven se enamora de ella en el curso de la noche y ahora no quiere desaparecer de la vida de Patricia.
I really like this book and I have given it five stars because of:1) the humor - in witty conversations and funny characters (well chosen)Circumstances might alter, thrones totter, but Miss Brent's decisions would remain unshaken"we women are all as unreasonable as the Income Tax"2) a charming love storyShe put her cool hands to her hot cheeks, wondering why her heart should show so little regard for her feelings3) the writer's observant eye - it is a marvelous social satire4) the way the story which took place in the time at the end of IWW was described - I mean, it is new to me that people then could have almost normal life, those times remind me rather of tragedy and sadness.
Enjoyable, fluffy and short comedy of errors from 1918 - almost a 100-year-old. :)It can be downloaded free from Project Gutenberg https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/33353 and is still a kindle freebie on Amazon.
She is so irritated by this that at dinner she announces that on the following night she will be dining out with her fiancé.
But some of her fellow boarders follow her in a taxi to the restaurant (these are some seriously pathetic people!) because they want to know more about this man who seems to have appeared out of nowhere.When Patricia realizes she has this unwanted audience, she appeals to the first young man she sees and asks him to play along.
These three combine to surreptitiously help Patricia realize that she just might care about Peter after all.Another memorable Edwardian romance.
I feel like a Scrooge giving this three stars when my friends liked it so much more, but the truth is, Patricia annoyed me to the point where I didn't see what Bowen could possibly see in her. I think I was taking it all too seriously when it was supposed to be a farce but I guess that's my current mood. (Diets are no good for anyone!)I do think that in the hands of Audrey Hepburn and Rex Harrison this could have been a hit.
She selected a black velvet hat with a large white water-lily on the upper brim”Her plan to enjoy a dinner she can little afford and return to Galvin House, having for once dined out, apparently with a man, and put an end to any pitying looks and whispers.
However what Patricia hadn’t reckoned on, was that Miss Wangle and Mrs Mosscrop-Smythe with one of their other Galvin House acolytes in tow in the form of Mr Bolton – would follow her in their own taxi – arriving at the Quadrant at exactly the same time as her.
After hearing the neighbor cats say mean things, Patricia Brent announces she will be dining out with her fiance the next evening.
This is obviously scandalous!
So when some of the neighbor cats follow her to dinner, Patricia accosts the first single military man she finds.
He turns out to be Lieutenant-Colonel Lord Peter Bowen, hot to trot.
1. This was pretty entertaining?
I liked Patricia, even with her ridiculous pride, and Peter with his schmoopy-eyed dedication and the silly plot to get them together.
I liked Tan!
And Peggy!
3. Like this book shows its age pretty bad.
Very enjoyable Prior to discovering this book, I had never heard of Patricia Brent, Spinster. Not had I the foggiest idea whom author Herbert George Jenkins was but now that I've read this book I shan't forget it and I want to read more by this author. I was immediately drawn into this story and upon being swiftly introduced to this cast of colorful characters I was intrigued and entertained. This delightful romance reads like a film. So descriptive and precise are the details of the cast and t
Prior to discovering this book, I had never heard of Patricia Brent, Spinster.
This delightful romance reads like a film.
So descriptive and precise are the details of the cast and the locations by trip of the imagination the reader is whisked away to Galvin House, The Quadrant Hotel and Grill Room and The office of Mr. Bonser, the settings of this charming book.
But little did she know her meddling neighbors would follow her to the same restaurant to witness her date.
You must read this book to learn the rest.
No sex, no violence, no swearing… just pleasant characters that I can enjoy spending some time with.I became curious when I got to the end of the book and saw a list of novels entitled Herbert Jenkins’ Shilling Library.
because for much of the 19th century, British book publishers sold novels at very high prices – a guinea and a half (31 shillings and 6 pence) per title, the equivalent of a week’s salary for a highly-paid, skilled worker in London.
Some of the Shilling Library titles also list the series as Methuen’s Shilling Books.
http://ilnidodellecornacchie.blogspot...
Los comienzos de un género. Muy divertidahttp://entremontonesdelibros.blogspot...
Peter Bowen is enchanted with Patricia and her tall tale.
Then Peter gets his sister involved and no one is a match for Tan's intelligence and enthusiasm.This is a cute story in the vein of Jane Austen in terms of social satire.
My personal favorite character is her boss' father-in-law.
Peter's sister Tan is also a favorite.
Peter is the least developed of all the secondary characters.
He's hurt by Patricia's rejection of him but it isn't completely clear why he's so in love with her when all she does is spurn him.
And the rest of the book is concerned with his attempts to make Patricia return his love.The love story is, taken all in all, fairly predictable, if rather sweet.
The real joy of this book is in the secondary characters: the gossipy, vaguely pathetic inmates of the boarding house; Mr Triggs, Patricia's boss' gloriously vulgar father in law; Lady Tanagra, Peter's sister; Patricia's awful Aunt Adelaide (her "only surviving relative"); and various other friend-and-relations.It all adds up to the perfect read for when you want something sweet and fun and not too mentally taxing.

Deliciosa comedia feelgood. Publicada en los años posteriores a la Primera Guerra Mundial, se nota que se hace un esfuerzo por los personajes frívolos y divertidos. Fuera de contexto histórico, tal vez sea poco creíble, pero es entretenida.
Set during WWI, this is a short comedy of manners, satirizing a group of genteel residents of a boarding house in Bayswater, and juxtaposing pride against love. The heroine's behaviour and sentiments may seem very silly to some, but one must bear in mind that it was first published in 1918.On the whole it was delightfully tongue-in-cheek and amusing.
It seems to be very rare in actual book form but you can get it in eBook form or listen to it for free quite easily.
In any case, my husband and I fell in love with the audio version recorded by Anna Simon for LibriVox and it is our go-to listening for car trips.
The story takes place in 1918 London where young Patricia Brent lives in a boarding house and works as a secretary for a politician.
If you can put the comments aside, this is such a fun story to read or listen to and I recommend it highly!
The downside is that not only the characters had traditional and old-fashioned ideas about gender, but that the author added them in random places.I wasn't completely convinced by the main couple and their motivations, I'm not sure Patricia was only proud or moral, even if I try to understand the values of her time.
Peter seemed nice but I wasn't completely convinced why he was attracted to her and why he was so persistant.
The social division isn't really explored but it wasn't use to mock the working class character either.There were moments when I felt this story could be a nice play or even a musical.
This is the story of a girl in WWI London who asks a stranger to play the part of her fiance for one evening so that her nosy, catty, gossipy boarding-house neighbors will stop making disparaging remarks about her single state.
Except, the stranger ends up liking her and decides to bring the charade to pass.
There are some great characters, but in such a short book, they’re not fleshed out much.
In some ways it reminds me of the eccentric characters of Anne of Green Gables and a little of Oscar Wilde's wit.

I inherited this old, worm-holey book from an aunt, and thought I should give it a chance because, after all, the author did publish Wodehouse! Set in the same period as the early Wodehouses, its characters are recognizably 1920s in their way of relating to the world and to each other. But unlike Wodehouse, it is dated by its superior-but-indulgent view of women -- the 'Women never really say what they mean', 'There, there, little woman' kind of remarks. If you can manage to set that aside, an easy and fairly pleasant read.
I have a thing for early twentieth-century British prose, and that is the this book's saving grace. That, and the excellent side characters. I love the way the Galvin House inmates and their antics are illustrated. The Romance is standard stuff, nothing exciting, but not bad either. This book is a product of its time, so reader beware of some casual classism and misogyny.
Recommendation from Michelle (@bookmusings) - April 2016Read October 2016This was such a delightful read. Light hearted, funny, ridiculous in the most perfect way. I enjoyed it from start to finish and recommend this book to anyone who loves a fun, romantic light read. The set up and writing style remind be quite a bit of The Lark by Edith Nesbit. Which I also enjoyed.
What a fun book! It should be more well known. Super fun romance with some great quirky characters including Miss Brent who gets herself into a mess just to show the catty gossips that she doesn't need their pity.
Divertida, absorbente, tierna y llena de ironía...me ha encantado!
