https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28446947-autumn
I don’t know.
I don’t know what to write about Autumn.
I don’t even know what I’ve read.
I don’t think so.
As you can see, I cannot write a coherent review because I did not think the book was coherent either.
To make up for it will post the visual opinion of my cat on this novel.
Cat pictures for a serious book shortlisted to the Booker Prize.
I don’t care.
The author spent half the book writing about some strange collages of a Pop Art painter with all the details included, so I can do whatever I want with my review.
Triggered to read it by the title – autumn is my favourite season – this first instalment was a wondrous introduction to Smith’s prose for me, so I eagerly look forward to the next parts now.Autumn is a playful, multi-layered and at times delectably subversive novel on the floating of time, aging, identity, art, love and friendship, grounded knee-deep in the grim realities of today’s post-truth politics, against the backdrop of the aftermath of the Brexit-vote.Set right here, right now, the story time-travels back and forth between the past and the present.
Ali Smith is not an easy author to read and yet her words and thoughts are beautiful.
If you like a linear plot, you will not find it here, though it is mostly set in the period after Brexit, it goes back and forth in time.
She explores time, it's passing, autumn into winter, past into present, young into old, as the seasons change so do we.
She throws in a pop artist, the Christine Keeler scandal, which I had to look up not being from Britain.
As I was reading at times I was frustrated, wondering where could she possibly be going with this?
Why does she throw this in?
There's really as much absence as presence in this book.Tell me what's in it - not what's not in it.It's a book of fragments that fit together in odd arrangements.
Don't tell me any more about this book.Would it be ok if it wasn't a giant soldier but just a man, and he squashed a mouse not a person?No!
Hailed as the first post-Brexit novel, in  Autumn  Ali Smith proves to us all that she is probably the greatest writer currently working in the United Kingdom. The fact that this novel was published a mere four months after the disastrous Brexit vote but yet analyses its aftermath as a central theme shows a turnaround that is nearly insane. Smith must have practically vomited this novel into her word processor, which makes its utter flawlessness almost divine. The novel begins with a man, Daniel
Hailed as the first post-Brexit novel, in 
The fact that this novel was published a mere four months after the disastrous Brexit vote but yet analyses its aftermath as a central theme shows a turnaround that is nearly insane.
The novel begins with a man, Daniel Gluck, who seems to have washed up on a beach.
Believing he has died he casts his eye along the beach and sees even more like him.
This opening scene demonstrates Smith's intent with Autumn, she is writing a Zeitgeist novel.
If I had read it when it was published Autumn would have by far been my favourite novel of the year.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
Reservoir 13 is out, so this is my clear favourite book in the shortlist Smith starts by introducing two characters - Daniel Gluck, who is 101 and clinging to life in a care home, and Elisabeth Demand, who was born in 1984 and knew him as a child when he was her neighbour.
In this section Daniel introduces Elisabeth to the work of Pauline Boty, the other main subject of the book, by describing some of her lost paintings.
Ali Smith's prose style reminds me of someone dressed in a dressing gown and slippers, hair unbrushed, wandering about a house with barely a grain of self-consciousness.
Smith can give the impression of voicing aloud her thoughts the moment she has them.
But I should have known it's more the architecture of the novel Smith is fascinated by than wordsmithery or sentence writing and there comes a moment in this novel where everything suddenly shiningly adheres.
It's an exciting moment and there's no looking back afterwards.
"April come she willWhen streams are ripe and swelled with rainMay she will stayResting in my arms againJune she'll change her tuneIn restless walks she'll prowl the night" --“April Come She Will” lyrics by Paul Simon"It was the worst of times, it was the worst of times."Traveling back and forth through time, the past to the present, from Elisabeth’s childhood and meeting her new neighbor Daniel Gluck, to the brink of the political climate that began with Brexit, this story covers a lot of terri
"April come she willWhen streams are ripe and swelled with rainMay she will stayResting in my arms againJune she'll change her tuneIn restless walks she'll prowl the night"	--“April Come She Will” lyrics by Paul Simon"It was the worst of times, it was the worst of times."Traveling back and forth through time, the past to the present, from Elisabeth’s childhood and meeting her new neighbor Daniel Gluck, to the brink of the political climate that began with Brexit, this story covers a lot of territory in a rather fluid way, dealing with aging, love in its many shapes and forms, friendship, art and artists, books and the telling of stories, the concept of time, music, identity, the culture of television, politics, sexual inequality, division of people, division of countries, and global warming.When first they meet, Elisabeth pretends to be her (non-existent) twin sister, and after a bit of a chat, Daniel says:”’Very pleased to meet you both.
There is undeniable brilliance here: sentences so profound they made me stop in my tracks, word plays so wonderful I had to read them twice, musing on a great number of important things.
There is no proper coherence in life and in art and Ali Smith captures this perfectly.At the core of this book is the friendship between Elisabeth and her older neighbour Daniel and the profound effect on her life he has – opening to her a world of art and cleverness.
I'd say the resounding theme in this book is loss - summer gives way to autumn in the seasons and in our lives, but there is beauty to be found in the journey.Don't go in to this expecting a plot, at least in not in the traditional sense.
Just go with the flow - read it once for the pleasure of the written word, then again to grasp the complexities of the plot threads and the cultural references.I loved it - I can see why this made the Booker shortlist and is one of the favorites to win.Thanks for NetGalley and Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group for an ARC of this lovely novel.
The work is something reminiscent of pop art, jazzy and clever but with echoes…instead of a piece of pink lace stuck variously under paint on the canvas, a memory…of children washing up on a beach, or women being pushed and herded onto buses…so slight a mention they are mere shadows.But then Daniel asks explicitly, the first time they play Bagatelle, “Sure you want war?” before patiently instructing Elisabeth in the importance of diversity of thought: how the idea of ‘threatening’ is not unidirectional and can all be in one’s own mind.
I was going to save this to read in the autumn, but then it was included in the Man Booker Prize Long List so I moved it up.This is described as a post-Brexit novel, and it does take place in that world and mentions it a few times in a few different ways, but more in the way that all of us continue in the world as it changes around us.
I'm tired of the way it makes things spectacular that aren't, and deals so simplistically with what's truly appalling.
I'm tired of how those liars have let this happen.
This makes it very British in some ways and the feelings in the country and the reactions to the vote form part of the novel, as in this much quoted piece:“All across the country, there was misery and rejoicing.
All across the country, people felt it was the wrong thing.
All across the country, people felt it was the right thing.
It is a reflection on who we are and what we are made of, As Deborah Levy says:“Transcendental writing about art, death, political lies, trees and all the dimensions of love.”And I love the occasional rants:“I'm tired of the news.
One feels one’s short hairs standing on end while reading.
Autumn’s a book about enlightened values versus what we’ve been getting lately from the mobocracy.
Most things I read, the author’s point of view does not reflect my values, though he or she may come close.
Reading Smith one feels one has met with a very like-minded person.
There's also the beautiful story itself which jumps around in time à la Muriel Spark's The Prime of Miss Jean Brody and follows the relationship of an old man and a teenager as they diverge and converge over twenty years or so.
Ali Smith’s fixation on, and a visible mastery of, story-telling across timeline, in no particular order, shines in this experimental, breezy novel as well.Centred around the 30-something Elisabeth Demand and her centenarian friend, Daniel Gluck, Autumn is a long, vibrant, occasionally melancholic, sometimes acerbic but entirely warming season of their friendship.
Whether it is the ridiculous bureaucratic hurdles she encounters in her efforts to secure a passport or the disdain she receives at her rebellious choice of thesising on Pauline Boty,Elisabeth comes across as a feisty heroine who is subdued by the autumnal phase of her friend and the dried momentum of her own life.
I really enjoyed Autumn, which is possibly Ali Smith’s most accessible book yet, however I wasn’t as wholly blown away by it as most people. I mean it’s still BRILLIANT because it’s Ali Smith. I adored the story of Daniel and Elisabeth over the years, I loved how Elizabeth’s mother developed. I agreed politically on Brexit and her observations of the good and bad... the art bit though just didn’t feel needed and dragged me away from what I was loving. And loving so much. Just my thoughts. Will be heading to Winter soon.
The novel seems to want to present me with all the sadness in the world, and all the bleakness of recent history, and it seemed determined to remind me of all the meannesses that people can heap upon one another (some of it through neglect) (some of it through evil acts)--and yet even as the novel forced me to face these things, at its center was a beautiful hope.
More than most novels, this novel felt like a dialog, where I was part of the creation of story, and where the feelings an image or a scene gave to me, however personal, were being acknowledged and even invited in by the text.It left me feeling sad, and it left me also feeling very much in love with my own family, somehow.
Smith's prose flips, twists, jumps, and skitters across the page with vivacity and wit, but also left me feeling overwhelmed with stylistic experimentation.
So, I turned to interviews with Smith and reviews others have written to better understand what I had just read.It isn't simply the writing that left me confused, but the real and imagined proceedings of the book with which I was unfamiliar.
The book flips and flops between Daniel's delirium in hospital and he and Elisabeth's formative relationship.
I wish I could understand why Boty's work ties in with Brexit and an intergenerational relationship, but I didn't.
Ali Smith's language is like a maze for the mind.
It's both stilted and beautiful, a stream of consciousness that reworks the reader's own thoughts into a new pattern.
It feels like a freeing of the consciousness but also like a new set of walls.
In many ways reminded me of my recent reading of Alice in Wonderland, a mix of the real and fantastic, full to the brim with intertextuality and metaphor.
Many thanks to Ali Smith, Hamish Hamilton/Penguin Books, and Netgalley for the chance to read this in exchange for an honest review.

When I finished reading, I was struck by how Smth's tone moved from poetic to conversational to funny and downright crude in a way that reminded me of Sylvia Plath's The Bell Jar. The book opens with someone on a beach, seeing dead bodies, seeing his own old body, deciding he must have died and a bit miffed to find he didn’t get his young body back, as he’d always assumed he would.
Every Story Tells a PictureAt the heart of Ali Smith's seemingly chaotic but actually tightly-organized new novel is a love relationship, between a thirtyish art lecturer, Elisabeth Demand, and a 101-year-old man, Daniel Gluck.
In particular, there are two books, Lincoln in the Bardo and Go, Went, Gone) to which I gave only 4 stars, but which I recognize as important books, with more staying power than many that I enjoyed more at the time, but have since forgotten.For some reason, three of the ten books (Forest Dark, A Horse Walks into a Bar, and Three Floors Up) are by Jewish authors, set in Israel.
Ali Smith is a prolific story writer, critic, and playwright, but her novels alone have blasted her into the mesosphere of critical adulation, and this first part of an exciting seasonal quartet furthers her familiar brand of humorous, gentle, playful, and bedazzling brilliance.
Featuring another of Smith’s precocious youngsters (her affinity for these quick-witted pre-teens is evident in other novels like There but for the) and word-loving oddballs, the novel takes a melancholic look at the present political tangles of 2016, reflects on the legacy of British pop-artist Pauline Boty, and muses on the place of storytelling and fabrication in a post-truth (OED word of 2016!) era.
It's no different in Autumn, the first in a quartet of seasonal novels the author has begun, musing on art, politics, and the tumultuous nature of life in all its different seasons.This first installment is clearly a post-Brexit musing—but that's not all it aims to be.
Ali Smith paints the lovely picture of a friendship between a young woman and elderly man alongside the exploration of a forgotten historical figure, Pauline Boty (the only female British Pop artist).
Though it wasn't my favorite Smith novel, I can see it standing the test of time, especially as she goes on to explore more in the next 3 installments.
I appreciated how this tale opened an interest for me in a woman pop artist, Pauline Boty, and the way her work figured in the amazing bond between Elisabeth and Daniel despite the age separation of 50-plus years.
…Then, what I do is, I just hold it there, without holding it too tight, and I let it sleep.As a game, Daniel challenges her imagination to make up her own rules for perceiving meaning in the world, such as making up alternative endings to classic stories and fables.
Memory always goes its own way regardless.It’s a bit of a stretch for me to transmute the pieces on Boty and her work to the lessons Elisabeth and Daniel forge about living a meaningful life.
I've upgraded it to 5 stars.'Autumn' by Ali Smith4.5 stars/ 9 out of 10From the opening sentence (which is referential to the opening of one of Dickens' novels), to the end of this novel, Ali Smith has created a beautiful story which can be read on many levels.
There were several passages in the novel that made me look at Dickens in a new way.Throughout the book there are beautiful descriptions of autumn progressing.
I understand that it is the first of four 'seasonal' novels by Ali Smith, and I am looking forward to the publication of the next one.Thank you to Penguin Books UK and to NetGalley for an ARC.

We're all in this time capsule, on a slow boat to nowhere, since we do not know what our next memories will be, or where our own stories will end.Daniel, or Mr. Gluck is introduced to the reader where he lies on the beach, naked, not knowing if he's dead or young again.
This short novel is the first in a seasonal quartet – each a standalone book, but interconnected.
I was listening to a podcast, “Books and Authors” set during the Edinburgh Festival, and somebody mentioned Ali Smith reading from her new work, which mentioned Brexit shortly after the result had been announced.
That was this work and Smith perfectly captures that strange atmosphere which pervaded the country during that time.
We see Elisabeth at various times in her life – at eight, eleven, thirteen, eighteen, as an adult.
This is a book which uncovers secrets, dreams, words, our histories.
