https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1533656.Wake_in_Fright
He was on his way…“Yabba”, as the locals called it, was bigger and better than where he’d spent his last twelve months, but John wasn’t impressed all the same.
He had time to fill before his flight to Sydney the following day – he may as well enjoy himself; right?Wake in Fright by Aussie author Kenneth Cook was originally published in 1961 and still has an enormous pull for readers, as well as viewers of the big and small screens.
I have no hesitation in highly recommending Wake in Fright.With thanks to Text Publishing for my ARC of this new printing; which includes an introduction by Peter Temple.
This short novel blew my mind. Disturbing. Funny. Horrific. Hypnotic. Cinematic. Addictive. Reads like a David Lynch film written by the love child of Cormac McCarthy, J D Salinger and Patrick Hamilton. Oh my god, I can't even tell you!
“In the remote towns of the west there are few of the amenities of civilization; there is no sewerage, there are no hospitals, rarely a doctor; the food is dreary and flavourless from long carrying, the water is bad; electricity is for the few who can afford their own plant, roads are mostly non-existent; there are no theatres, no picture shows and few dance halls; and the people are saved from stark insanity by the one strong principle of progress that is ingrained for a thousand miles east, north, south and west of the Dead Heart - the beer is always cold.”A young man from Sydney, John Grant, is teaching in a one-room school in a tiny outback town, working off a two-year bond to the Education Department.
Gripping page turner about a rather annoying schoolteacher broke and burning up in an outback town. The construction of this nightmare is sudden and brutal, as-is the decline of our protagonist. The storytelling is hypnotic, more frightening for what it holds back than lets on. Happy to recommend this dark gritty Aussie classic.
Περίμενα να μου αρέσει, μιας και συνήθως τέτοιου είδους ιστορίες, που διαδραματίζονται σε τέτοια μέρη, είναι από αυτές που μου τραβάνε την προσοχή, που με φτιάχνουν, δεν περίμενα όμως ότι θα μου αρέσει τόσο πολύ και ότι θα είναι από τα καλύτερα βιβλία που έχω διαβάσει στην ζωή μου.Πρωταγωνιστής της ιστορίας είναι ο νεαρός δάσκαλος Τζον Γκραντ από το Σίδνεϊ, που σύμφωνα με την σύμβασή του, πρέπει να διδάξει σε ένα σχολείο μιας μικρής, απομακρυσμένης πόλης, για δυο ολόκληρα χρόνια.
Στο βιβλίο τον βρίσκουμε να φεύγει από την πόλη για έξι εβδομάδες διακοπές, με την μια μέρα να την περνάει αναγκαστικά στην πόλη Μπουντανιάμπα, ώστε να φτάσει τελικά στο αγαπημένο του Σίδνεϊ.
One of the main key elements of this story is the wonderful contrast of the wild, rough, exuberant, hard drinking characters who live in this environment, and who to a man, not forgetting a young woman, express an unconscious boundless generosity which is natural in the outback.
I didn't read the book until many years later.There is an interesting story to the film, which is now considered a classic, I think a masterpiece.
For years a hunt was on to track down a print of the film.
The print was brought back to the Australian National Film and Sound Archive in Canberra.
4.5★sYoung, naive, clueless teacher John Grant travels from his remote school at Tiboonda to Bundanyabba (thinly disguised Broken Hill) for an overnight stay before he catches the plane to Sydney for the Christmas holidays.
In the pub he gets dragged into the blokey male culture of the Yabba, which consists of drinking very large quantities of beer.
165-166Originally published in 1961, this novel is a searing expose’ of blokey, working class male culture in the NSW outback of the 1950s.
There are only a few major episodes in this short book, such as the two-up school and the bloody, spotlighting trip, and these are narrated with great power and spirit.
totally hypnotic. I was equally fascinated and repulsed but this book demanded to be read to the very end.
Written in 1961, it powerfully relates John Grant's descent into hell, here also known as outback town Bundanyabba ("the Yabba").
'Wake In Fright' delivers a vivid sense of place - the heat, the light, the dust, the savagery, and the scale - are all powerfully rendered.In the same way that once seen David Lynch's 'Blue Velvet' is never forgotten, so it with 'Wake In Fright'.
I have a copy of the DVD and will update this review once I've watched it.5/5FILM ADAPTATION (10 Sept 2018) - a very powerful and faithful rendition of the book.
Apparently, upon release, the Australian critics were appalled as it paints such a horrifying portrait of life in the isolation of the Outback.
got sent this one cos the publishers want me to do some puff about it that may end up on the re-release cover which i was hell stoked about as people will think im totes literary for being quoted on a book.
kenneth cole has constructed something truly disturbing here, i will never look at our national emblem the same way, and when im next in a country town, i will think twice about saying yes or no when a stranger asks to buy me a beer.
this is tough stuff, and reading it made me realise that we really dont make much tough stuff in our country anymore.
Ξυπνάς ξημερώματα από εφιάλτη. Κάπου μεταξύ κουζίνας και μπαλκονιού, όσο για να πιεις τρεις κούπες καφέ, βυθίζεσαι σ' έναν άλλον εφιάλτη, γεμάτο αλκοόλ και λανθασμένες αποφάσεις. Δεν σταματάς να διαβάζεις πριν φτάσεις στο τέλος. Υπέροχο.
One of the novel's through-lines is the social aspect of drinking, which might not be unique to Australian culture yet is certainly characteristic of it, and which I appreciate Cook for articulating so clearly as when Grant notices the peculiarity of our turning a blind eye to some who "do almost anything that would mean at least ostracism in normal society...
[b]ut refuse to drink with them and you immediately became a mortal enemy." Cook's writing also may read simply (maybe too much so), which if patience nevertheless allows is so much more rewarding when it becomes pure poetry.
The story of John Grant, teaching in a three shanty town in the outback who yearns for the bright lights, women and beaches of Sydney.
During the school break he sets out for Sydney but ends up waylaid in the town of Bundanyabba, and his descent into a"hell" of his own making begins.
You can't drink the water in Bundanyabba, beer is the only beverage worth drinking.
In some ways this is an ugly story as you see John Grant spiral out of control, you do fear for him.
WARNINGS: Alcohol addiction, smoking addiction, drunk-driving, drunk-shooting, shooting and murders of kangaroos, attempted suicide, possible sexual assault, gambling... If I've forgotten anything, I'm sorry.NOTE: The greyhound is never hurt and remains alive.
He wakes next morning, broke and at the mercy of the locals who, as he discovers, can literally kill a stranger with their brand of kindness.Nursing a beer bought with some of his last remain funds, Grant is trying to plot how he can escape the Yabba, when he is befriended by one of the local mine managers, a man called Haynes.
If Summer of the Seventeenth Doll the movie was compromised beyond salvation by its attempts to Americanise it, Wake in Fright not only survived its international production team, but became, by all account a fine film which did justice to the book.
I'm looking forward to finding a copy of it.
Apparently the rights were first bought with Dirk Bogarde in mind as the star - perfect!
Although that didn't happen, one of my favourite English actors played the role of the doctor when the movie finally eventuated.
Donald Pleasence, again, one could scarcely imagine a more suitable actor for the role.Rest here:https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...
‘It might be fifty years since the novel appeared yet it retains its freshness, its narrative still compels, and its bleak vision still disquiets.…Cook can make us feel the heat, see the endless horizon, hear the sad singing on a little train as it traverses the monotonous plain.’Peter Temple, from the Introduction‘Wake in Fright deserves its status as a modern classic.
All of this is harrowingly reacorded —the destruction of a young soul fresh to Australia—in Kenneth Cook’s remarkable novel.’Thomas Keneally‘A true dark classic of Australian literature.’J.
But it’s most importantly a universal story, like literature is meant to be, about the experience of being human among humanity; being a part of it all, but being also alone, an outsider; being in solidarity and being a scab.
His various states of mind throughout the dream shift the story along, muscling it gently enough, as he unravels and becomes no longer John Grant.
and yet one thing had seemed to lead to the next.But he needn’t have done any of it.Much is also made of how sinister and menacing the men of the outback are in Grant’s all-to-real dream.
Anyway, I remembered too much of the film, because as I read through this, I knew what was coming next and I wanted to scream at John Grant for not doing the stupid thing he was about to do.Because this is exactly what you want to do.
There is some nice irony here: the locals are very disparaging about the city and the coast, but are constantly “watering” themselves with beer; conversely Grant dreams of the relief of being near the beach and cool winds off the sea, but surrounded by a water you can not drink.Everyone is brutish – either slothful, drunk, or lustful, even the women.
Légèrement plus sombre que ce que je lis d'habitude, mais intéressant et bien construit. Il y a des non dits qui laissent place à l'interprétation et à la discussion, ce qui donne une bonne profondeur.
I loved how it explored the theme of how life can go spinning wildly out of control due to one or two chance encounters and I love how that tied back to the very Australian game of Two-Up. I loved how the book explored the concept of how being in a strange and unfamiliar territory can lead to spiriling desperation - and how hard it drove it in.At the end I really wanted to sit down with John Grant and plead to him that I understood his plight completely.
‘It might be fifty years since the novel appeared yet it retains its freshness, its narrative still compels, and its bleak vision still disquiets.…Cook can make us feel the heat, see the endless horizon, hear the sad singing on a little train as it traverses the monotonous plain.’Peter Temple, from the Introduction‘A chilling outback horror and an Australian classic.’ Guardian, Top 10 tales from the frontier‘Wake in Fright deserves its status as a modern classic.
All of this is harrowingly reacorded —the destruction of a young soul fresh to Australia—in Kenneth Cook’s remarkable novel.’Thomas Keneally‘A true dark classic of Australian literature.’J.
In the introduction to this new Text Classics edition, Australian crime writer Peter Temple says it “probably set Australian tourism back at least twenty years” for the picture of outback life depicted here is a hellish and frightening one.It tells the story of a young school teacher who travels to a rough outback mining town called Bundanyabba (or “The Yabba” as the locals call it) and gets trapped there for five horrendous days.It all starts with a simple ice-cold beer in a pub.
This soon descends into a drunken escapade involving a gambling den and before he knows it John Grant, a teacher at a one-man outback school six hours up the road, has lost everything except the clothes on his back and eleven cigarettes.
Dabei hat der glücklose Zocker Grant mit seinen Bekanntschaften und Gastgebern sogar verhältnismäßigen Dusel, niemand will ihm was Böses, alle sind superfreundlich in Yabba, spendieren dem bankrotten Gast ein Bier und einen Drink nach dem nächsten.
Aber das geht eigentlich schon aus der ersten Seite hervor.Mir ist der Roman zu gradlinig und sein Personal zu schlicht, aber der Autor hat aber alle Ziele so weit erreicht, insofern greift der Klassikerbonus, das heißt vier Sterne, auch wenn der Roman nicht mein Bier ist.
Sublime novela corta sobre el Outback en los años 60.
Una galería de personajes a cada cual más brutal y desquiciado, todos ellos sin salirse de lo considerado normal en el calcinado desierto central australiano.
Médicos sin licencia, mineros que se juegan o se beben el sueldo, rudos curritos que se divierten despanzurrando canguros a escopetazos, camioneros que tolerarán cualquier desaire excepto que no te tomes una cerveza con ellos y por supuesto, el calor, el polvo y bares en mitad de la nada donde jamás falta la cerveza helada.
Cinco estrellas por la ambientación y por los personajes.
But now, from a 2017 millennial stuck-in-3-year-work-contracts-hell perspective, the place sounds like paradise:‘I came to Bundanyabba seven years ago because it is probably the only place in Australia where I could practise medicine without the fact that I was an alcoholic preventing people coming to me.‘I discovered in one month flat that I could live and drink as much as I liked without working at anything, provided I remained what the locals term a “character”.’Grant said ‘Hmm,’ and hoped the monologue had come to an end.
This book left me feeling wrung out; sleepless and dehydrated. I read it with a constant hangover.The gradual descent into madness. The black humour of survival.It's not so much 'horror', as psychological torment. Your only question is what is real and not real. But it doesn't matter; you have to continue stumbling forward.Brilliantly written prose and a well developed storyline. I don't recall the book being overly descriptive, but I am still able to visualise the entire town and all the characters.A wonderfully lucid experience.
2 étoiles et demi. Pas la lecture la plus joviale, hein. Mais à cause de la description, je m'attendais à plus d'horreur que ça. Aussi, j'en ressors un peu déçue. Malgré tout, je suis vraiment intriguée par le film.
Fascinante historia que viene a decirnos que cada uno se busca su propia suerte y que si uno se empeña en ir de mal en peor, irá de mal en peor. A veces no existe la mala suerte, sino una elección desafortunada detrás de otra. Pánico al amanecer se lee muy rápido, aunque el ritmo se resienta en algunos momentos, pese a que la historia que se nos cuenta es de lo más patética.
As the novel proceeds down its inevitable path of destruction, and our sense of bathos for Grant is stretched to its limit, one is reminded of Homer's Odysseus, holding on desperately to his vision of Penelope as he is tossed and thrown from one menacing environment to another, forced to make sacrifices as he fights the evil forces of Nature.
Read it alone for the 'roo shooting scene and wonder no more as to how films like Wolf Creek try desperately to imitate Cook's underlying, but inevitable, outback menace.
