https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68427.Elantris
Elantris is simply said a rather ecstatically unique book, that creates a world beyond the usual bounds of imagination that thirsts for expansion into something even grander.
A world of Gods and grandeur that now plagued by an unknown curse is depleted of its magic and plunged into suffering.
I can't really express how much I adored this book, I usually don't like overtly descriptive books, with excessive amounts of narration.
In this book the word excessive had no place, it simply worked out in the best way possible.
Once you read all his other books, it’s really clear that this is his debut work, whether from his writing or the way he weaved the world-building and magic systems.Although this debut is inferior in comparison to his other Cosmere books, this doesn’t mean that it’s not great.
If you haven’t read any Sanderson’s adult fantasy books, Elantris or Mistborn is a great place to start.
I'll have to think about how to review this but for now... wow!Sanderson does it again!
Re-discovering Brandon Sanderson was one of my best decisions this year.Elantris is undoubtedly a wonderful debut, paving the path for marvelous fantasy adventures. And even though it's probably Sanderson's weakest work, you can't help but feel awed before his ingenuity and the masterful way he navigates politics and intrigue! In case it is not clear, I plead fangirl! ❝ Dream on, Elantris. Remember what you used to be and try to hide your sins beneath the blanket of darkness. Tomorrow the sun wi
Raoden, Sarene, Hrathen, they will cancel each other's plans, they will make kingdoms tremble, but in the end, everything depends on the cursed city and the secrets hiding in her stained buildings, whose light has been extinguished.
As per usual, Brandon Sanderson never fails to deliver intricate religious systems that play an integral part in the plot, and quick-witted (and occasionally sharp-tongued) characters; the dialogues are infused with mirth, friendly banters and battles of wit, and they are always enjoyable.
His kindness, his optimism (his dialogues with Galladon were simply precious) and his need to help his people, to uncover the secrets of Elantris and restore Arelon to its former glory made me want toprotect him at all costs.
For no clear reason, I was completely unable to sustain interest in Elantris despite leaving the library copy on my physical 'currently reading' shelf for months.
Out of the triplicate storyline, the destroyed Elantrian city was the only plot that really sustained my focus.
Prince Raoden has been declared dead, but has actually been thrown into slime-coated Elantris.
He's going to fix things.A second storyline is focused an an annoyingly plucky young heroine, Sarene (subtle much?)--saved from being a Mary Sue because, you know, she can't draw.
Though he thinks he knows the politics, he's frequently outmaneuvered by everyone around him, from Sarene, to his recruit, to the emperor.
I loved this book!Okay, I took a picture of the back of the book because I liked how they had the part about Raoden, Hrathen, and Sarene printed on there but I did cut off a little bit of Sarene.
Oh, and I am getting this one in the UK Edition like all the ones I love and am trying to get.
I just loved a lot of people in this book but those are the main ones.
There is so much in this book that I would like to talk about.
Didn't quite sweep me away as much as Mistborn did, but it was still a solid and satisfying read.
The mystery about what happened to Elantris was super compelling, and even though I preferred some characters to others, I was invested in all of their stories and did really like how everything came together in the end.Overall, this was a solid and creative fantasy novel with a slower beginning that pays off in the end!
I would still recommend the Mistborn trilogy over this, but if you loved those books and want more Sanderson, this one is worth a read!
3.75⭐I got my Cosmere fix. *giddy. Giddy. So giddy*Should be able to last me for a few weeks. RTCI need my Cosmere fix...No matter where I go, all roads lead back to the Cosmere.Such is the way of the world...🤷♀Kicked off January with Rothfuss now February with Sanderson. Yay for 2018!👌😍
3.75⭐️I got my Cosmere fix. *giddy. Giddy. So giddy*Should be able to last me for a few weeks. RTCI need my Cosmere fix...No matter where I go, all roads lead back to the Cosmere.Such is the way of the world...🤷‍♀️Kicked off January with Rothfuss now February with Sanderson. Yay for 2018!👌😍
Kaladin is too good for me, and also belongs right in that book where he already is, thank you very much, so I can have more wonderful exploits and badassery to read about.) (hide spoiler)] which is not really a spoiler but actually a tangent.Raoden started worming his way into my heart on page 51.
Actually, as I think about it, I feel that a lot of the reasons that I liked Hrathen were the reasons Inspector Javert is my favorite character in Les Miserables, because they are both noble people doing bad things for all the right reasons, and with little malice in their hearts.
That said I fully recommend this book as your first venture into Brandon Sanderson's work if you are at all interested in fantasy or just want an entertaining read without the 'literary baggage'.The strengths of this book are in the plot (discussed more deeply in my first review) and the depth of the novel.
I would love to read a feminist review of the book (and one that did not simply question things like 'are the characters Mary Sues - because frankly I hate the term and fine most characters in some ways have unique qualities that make them interesting regardless) or a review looking at the religious system built into the novel.
Raoden is what Kaladin would have been like if he was born to a more powerful family and Kaladin is what Raoden would have been like if he was born to a less powerful family.My favourite characters are Raoden and Hrathen.I find Hrathen intrigues than rest of the characters because his character is more complex.I have noticed lots of people gave lower rated of this book.
Most of them are like me read books by Brandon Sanderson before 'Elantris' like 'Mistborn' or 'The Stormlight Archive', they are very popular and they like it so I think these people who have gave lower rated of this book have a high expectation towards 'Elantris'.I love this book so much Alhamdulillah.
I DID IT! Took me only about 4 months but i did it! Now i can read Warbreaker in peace.
I'd round down if I'm comparing this to Mistborn or Warbreaker, but then it's still SO much better than a lot of my other 4 star reads.
This story did drag a bit at times for me, though, and it's not my favorite book of his.
It started to feel like a bit more of a task to get through than anything fun.So this was still a well-developed story, but I personally wouldn't recommend it as the first Brandon Sanderson book to try.
Buuuut everyone has different taste and I know this is a favorite book for many of my friends!
But ten years before, the transformation process was twisted into something horrible: the Elantrians turned into diseased-looking horrors, their glowing, lovely city of Elantris became decayed and covered with slime, and the magic was lost.But life goes on.
Hrathen, the red-robed priest, was perhaps the most complex character, struggling with fears and doubts and pride.But I actually enjoyed Raoden's and Sarene's parts of the story more.
Raoden, especially, grabbed my interest, as well as my admiration, as he tries to deal with his terrible and painful transformation, figure out why the magic of Elantris was lost, and rescue himself and other Elantrians from the desperate existence they've been thrown into.
On sale today for 2.99 here this is Sandersons first published work and it sparks of originality.Sandersonitis Support group a.k.a. Epic Buddy Read starting July 4 With members Athena, Alexa, Armina, Gavin and Desinka4 Stars Only Because I Know the Extra Epicness Brandon Sanderson Delivers in Later WorksReasons Brandon Sanderson (BS) is one of/if not my favorite author1. Strong Female Characters2. Complex Heroes and Villians3. Complicated yet Understandable Magic Systems4. Intertwining of Religi
Why it was cool and all the stuff I liked about it such as a zombie city with intelligent life, a marriage of two people who have never met in person and one of whom is assumed dead, a religious zealot that made my skin crawl, silvery orbs that have a sentient being in them that act as a type of google/skype hybrid, political intrigue, pending doom etc, etc….and I failed miserably all I got from them was….
This is shown from the perspectives of three different PoVs; Raoden the Prince of Arelon, Sarene the Teoish princess he was supposed to marry and Hrathen a priest from Fjorden sent to convert the people of Arelon.
Not as good as Mistborn, but still wonderful. One of the most religious books I've read outside of the Christian genre. Sanderson creates the coolest magic systems!
Elantris was a promising debut from little known fantasy author Brandon Sanderson....But really though it was definitely a good debut and a pretty strong read in it's own right.
The world-building, especially the set up of 2 religions warring for the hearts and minds of a people with the ruins of a fallen utopia in the background, was awesome and the characters were overall pretty likeable and occasionally intriguing.
The story is told through the POV of 3 main characters: Raoden, Sarene and Hrathen.
Hrathen for me was by far the most interesting of the main POV characters.
I'm willing to turn a blind eye on Deus ex machinas lurking around every corner, plot holes, unresolved questions, incredibly boring dialogues and witless conversations (which probably makes up more than 90% of the book).
Sarene, the heroine, the-most-perfect-and-intelligent-princess-that-ever-walked-the-earth is the chief reason why I felt like puking most of the time while reading this.
One of the other main characters, Prince Raoden is without a doubt the biggest Gary Sue Sanderson has ever created.
(hide spoiler)]One of the very few interesting things about this book was Elantris.
Main female character, for once, doesn't have some magical specialty, doesn't wield power, to be considered as important and interesting in his book.
Knowing all this, how could I not say that Sanderson, over the course of time and dozens of books published, is one of the most undeveloped authors I had displeasure to read?If Elantris is indeed his weakest novel as people say, than just how weak all these later copies of it are?No, Elantris, for me, is his greatest novel.
This book was full of interesting characters and a healthy plot, lots of world building, and lots of information without being "info-dumpy".Ten years after the fall of Elantris, rumored to be a city of gods among men, the country of Arelon is plagued with a crippling disease called the Shaod.
Sanderson developed a some solid ideologies in his fantasy world and embellished on them through his characters.
I was fascinated, angry, disturbed, & curious as the world unfolded before me, and shortly into the novel it felt natural reading the names and occurrences happening outside of our central country.
Además unos días después aparece su prometida, Sarene, y un sacerdote de alto nivel llamado Hrathen, que viene con la misión de convertir a Arelon en la religión del Shu-derethi en tres meses, una religion en expansión que lleva ejecutandose ya hace muchos años.
Es una historia compleja, con varios personajes y términos propios, con un sistema mágico propio que vamos conociendo poco a poco; pero que en ningún momento se llega hacer pesada ni liosa dada la capacidad de Brandon Sanderson para producir una inmersión poco a poco en la historia, donde todo te acaba pareciendo completamente normal, como si de toda la vida hubieras sabido que existían los aones (solo lo entenderán los que leyeron el libro xD).
I really loved this book. The story was intriguing even if it was a bit slow at times, and the characters were incredible. Overall a pretty fantastic read!
Recommended by Lau and holding hands with Mitticus, Nanu, Lizet, Xime, Cati, Violante, Ro, Majo, Yolanda, Andrea, CalypK, Bianjie, Betza, Antonio, Alejandra, Christina, Jessica,Denisse & Marivl in a massive Buddy Read!------------------------ Elantris was beautiful, once. It was called the city of the gods: a place of power, radiance, and magic. Elantris has an amazing formula: amazing world-building, an incredible magic system and likable characters. If that were enough I'd give it five who
Elantris has an amazing formula: amazing world-building, an incredible magic system and likable characters.
Only Hrathen showed complexity but Sanderson threw it out of the window when Hrathen decided to (view spoiler)[redeem himself by saving Sarene in the name of love.
Sanderson builds this character over what others will say about her but he won't show us.
I find it funny that she went on a humanitary mission to Elantris but after Raoden asked her for clothes and buckets among other things, she delivers broken and faulty things to sick, suffering people!However, Sanderson always has strong secondary characters who are completely adorable and their lost is always painful.
Fast forward to early 2016; Brandon Sanderson has published another 17 of his own books and 7 novellas/short stories (garnering an average rating of 4.36 in Goodreads), completed The Wheel of Time, and been repeatedly touted to be one of the most prolific authors of this generation, with worldbuilding ideas that almost defies comprehension at times.Elantris was Sanderson’s first published novel and it still represented one of the most original works I’ve read to-date.
While Sanderson was subsequently known to write amazing action scenes, Elantris was instead a more personal and contemplative story of devotion and dominion.
This was so much better than I had been led to believe! Seasoned Sanderson fans recommended it as a way of comparing his first work to his more accomplished recent work. But it was great in its own right! Maybe Baby Brandon emerged from his crib already writing perfect sentences!
Incredible! This book is just great! I’m a major Brandon fan since I read the Mistborn trilogy, I’ve always wanted to read his debut novel but this book was so scarce that I almost gave up. After reading it I’m really glad I didn’t give up on my search, this book is way better than I expected. As expected the magic system is so amazing and original. “Books!” Raoden said with excitement.“Should never have brought you here,” Galladon muttered. “Now I’ll never get rid of you.”  This book got me hoo
After reading it I’m really glad I didn’t give up on my search, this book is way better than I expected.
The writing is okay, not as great as his other books but better than lots of books I’ve read before.
I love them all even Hrathen makes me wish I’m that pious oh except Sarene cause I felt like smacking at the back of her head half the time.
Raoden If am optimistic half as this guy then my life will be worry free, don’t get me wrong I’m not a pessimist but Raoden’s level of optimism is way over the radar.

I never would have picked up this book, normally, because I usually base my fantasy reading on referrals rather than random browsing, but this was an exception.
Needless to say, the class was a blast, and Professor Sanderson really left a positive impression on me.I had forgotten all about his book until, much later, I was killing time in an airport book store while on layover, and was quite surprised to stumble across this book!
This book reads differently from the typical fantasy story in a lot of ways.
Oh well, I'll be looking forward to reading more from my once-professor!
This is Sandersons debut novel and apparently his weakest. Well if this is his weakest then I am in for a wild amazing ride.I enjoyed this so much! I absolutely loved the Mistborn trilogy but due to the reviews this book was getting, I went in with very low expectations. Thankfully I had no reason for it as the world building as usual is stellar and the writing was incredibly enjoyable. The main characters were unique and it was difficult not rooting for them (yes, even Hrathen was rootable haha
This is Sanderson´s debut novel and apparently his weakest.
Well if this is his weakest then I am in for a wild amazing ride.I enjoyed this so much!
I absolutely loved the Mistborn trilogy but due to the reviews this book was getting, I went in with very low expectations.
Thankfully I had no reason for it as the world building as usual is stellar and the writing was incredibly enjoyable.
I enjoyed discovering Elantris and its inhabitants bit by bit but now I crave more!I really hope he will release more books in this universe (excluding the novellas)
Dios mío!” “Ok. Vuelve a leer ese párrafo, Denisse.” Se los juro, me pasa con cada libro que llega a encantarme, las ultimas páginas las leo super lento.
Los detalles hacen toda la diferencia para mi: (view spoiler)[Casi me hago encima cuando Hrathen dice que su problema esta con el Wyrn y no con su dios.
(hide spoiler)]Como ya dije, se que no es la novela perfecta, pero dentro de toda esa imperfección considero que es de lo mejor que he leído en mucho tiempo.
