https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30288282-the-immortalists
"And what if I change?" It seems impossible that Varya's future is already inside her like an actress just offstage, waiting decades to leave the wings. "Then you'd be special. 'Cause most people don't." 2 1/2 stars. I have a lot of mixed feelings about The Immortalists. Though there were parts I enjoyed, I was left feeling underwhelmed and like I'd recommend many other similar books before recommending this one.You should be aware that this is literary fiction and focuses in depth on the lives
Though there were parts I enjoyed, I was left feeling underwhelmed and like I'd recommend many other similar books before recommending this one.You should be aware that this is literary fiction and focuses in depth on the lives of four siblings.
My problem is that there are so many books about families with more memorable characters, fewer predictable plot points, and less trite messages.
It's like there'll be a scene where a character is washing the dishes and the author will suddenly mention his penis hanging limp between his legs.
A wonderful -symbolically fitting book cover -- The mysticism of the fortune teller mixed with traditional Jewish beliefs - and the story told in this novel ---adds up to one thing: "The Tree of Life" -- Perfect!!!
To me this was so much more than, “would you like to know the date of your death?” - or even, “how you might live your life if you knew?” The story of Simon and Klara especially had me turning pages - and I became very interested in the birth of Ruby- wondering how she was going to fit into this story -given that she didn’t see the fortune teller.
In a novel, so centered on death, there is a tremendous amount of life and living within these pages.Beginning in 1969, the four Gold siblings boldly knock on the door of a fortune teller who then proceeds to impart to them the one thing nobody knows when they enter this world- the exact day you will die.
Simon’s story sets the stage for a riveting family saga that prompts the reader to wonder just how much of our lives are controlled by elements such as pure luck or destiny and how much control we have over our own future.
See my exclusive interview with Chloe Benjamin about her novel The Immortalists here!“There are two major theories about how to stop aging…”“…It sounds like you’re saying we can choose to live.
The Immortalists bounds along a timeline spanning five decades, trotting through the start of the AIDS epidemic in San Francisco—“You weren’t terrified?” “No, not then…When doctors said we should be celibate, it didn’t feel like they were telling us to choose between sex and death.
Chloe Benjamin’s second novel continued her thus-far-established trend of exploring existential questions in our everyday lives, creating a brand for her that is sure to glimmer and shine, attracting new readers from far and wide.
Imagine you are a kid and together with your siblings you sneak out of the house to go see a gypsy woman who is said to be able predict the day you die… It’s 1969 in New York City’s East side, and word has spread about a mystical woman, a traveling psychic….You go to see her and all of you get to hear ‘your’ date.You go home and then….
How will you live your life?This is the story of a Jewish family in New York, featuring four siblings, Simon, Klara, Daniel and Varya, and their mother.
This book really had impact on me.
Chloe Benjamin's epic The Immortalists has us considering some of the most fundamental and complex questions about life and how we live it.
It is thought provoking as it asks does knowledge of our mortality make us live our life to the utmost or makes us fearful, guilty, and seek to outwit death?
This is a story of family, loss, secrets, regrets, sibling relationships, death and above all else, about life.The lives of each of the children is followed to the last moments in their lives.
Daniel becomes a miitary medic whilst Varya seeks the answers to living longer as a researcher.
I'd rate this 4.5 stars.If you could know the exact day of your death, would you want to find out? If you did find out, how would knowing that information affect how you lived your life? These questions are at the heart of  The Immortalists , Chloe Benjamin's deeply affecting and beautifully written new book.In 1969, growing up on New York's Lower East Side, the Gold siblings learn that there is a traveling fortune teller in their neighborhood who can tell anyone the day they will die. While not
While not everyone is sure that this is actually true, the four children—straightforward Varya, bossy Daniel, impetuous, magic-obsessed Klara, and dreamy Simon—decide to find out.What the woman tells each of them that day will greatly affect their lives, none more so than Klara and Simon.
Simon knows he is different and dreams that San Francisco will be the place he can finally be free to be who he is, to find love and be someone other than the son destined to inherit his family's garment business.Klara watches as her brother pursues his life with reckless abandon, and while she wants to pursue her dreams as well, she knows she must be the stable one for him.
Is it fate or do we have the ability to change our fate?Love life for what we have and live it to our greatest potential as if it were our last, as we never know if we are actually living our last day!THE IMMORTALISTS by CHLOE BENJAMIN is an interesting, entertaining, fascinating, and a different sort of read that had me feeling quite uncomfortable with some of the early scenes but then had me totally engaged and I needed to find out how this story was going to end.
Conceptually intriguing but lackluster in its execution. Benjamin’s contemporary coming-of-age tantalizes with its premise of four siblings who encounter a traveling psychic who reveals when they will die but is feather-light in its examination of the line between destiny and choice. Despite mention of mysticism and psychics, gypsies and magicians, the prose is unadorned, and the brevity of each character’s story evokes a perpetual sense of detachment. The fun of The Immortalists lies in speculating which characters will meet their demise and wondering, if they do, how will Death take them?
After giving it some thought, I’m comfortable with a 4 star rating.The book focuses on four siblings.
At the beginning, as children and young teens growing up in Manhattan, they visit a fortune teller who tells them separately and secretly the date they will each die.
The rest of the book is broken into four parts, each part focusing on one sibling.
How would you live your life if there was a chance you knew the date of your death?
At times, I found that Benjamin pushed the internal and interpersonal drama a bit too far, but I still wanted to keep reading.
3.5? 3.75?I actually ended up liking this more than I expected!The premise was very intriguing. Four siblings meet a psychic who tells them the exact date they will die. It tend influences how they choose to live their lives.This felt more like a historical fiction/contemporary than fantasy/sci-fi so be warned! It's definitely a slow burning story where you follow each characters throughout their struggles.I enjoyed it!
It would give you a chance to live life to its fullest or could hang over you like a death sentence.
These prophecies dictate how their lives unfold because as much as they don't want to believe, their own self fulfilling prophecies will lead them down a path: Simon, the youngest, lives his life recklessly trying to fulfill his dreams at the cost of losing his family; Klara, the magician, thinks she is invincible of death and will outlive it, but the memory of the prophecy overshadows hers life and she takes up alcohol as a way of coping.
The book opens with 4 siblings visiting a fortune teller who tells each of them the exact day they would die.
After this intriguing beginning, the story is broken into four parts, one for each of the siblings.
Instead it reads like a family saga with very unlikable characters.
Other reviewers seem to love it so this is probably a case of the wrong book for this reader.* Early in the book there are several graphic sex scenes between two gay men.
I didn’t feel it was gratuitous since it fit into the story line, but I do think it was unnecessarily graphic.
I thought that this was going to be magical realism which I confess is not a subgenre that I enjoy. It isn't. Four siblings, as children, find out the date of their deaths and for the next fifty years their lives richochet about as they try to live with (or run from) this knowledge. The Immortalists is about life, the bonds between siblings as well as science, religion, dance and research monkeys. Yes, you read that correctly.
✨ 4.5 stars rounded up for The ImmortalistsThe Immortalists is a different sort of book.
The reader follows each sibling as "the day" edges near, and the way the stories were arranged and overlapped between each character added further interest.
Varya becomes a scientist studying aging.
This was a Traveling Sister read, and only two of us made it past the first section of the book.
It was a pleasure reading and discussing this with Norma, especially how the book made us feel.
I found this to be a special book with deep meaning.
3.5 Stars. BEWARE the woman on Hester Street.As the story begins, it's 1969 New York when four bored adolescent siblings....just for a bit of fun....pool their allowances and sneak out to track down a Seer they heard tell about who could predict the date of their death. What they discover changes each life forever. One by one, the individual stories are told, the dates of demise divulged as we follow a young Varya 13, Daniel 11, Klara 9 and Simon 7 throughout their often heartbreaking, challengi
BEWARE the woman on Hester Street.As the story begins, it's 1969 New York when four bored adolescent siblings....just for a bit of fun....pool their allowances and sneak out to track down a Seer they heard tell about who could predict the date of their death.
There are also a few other (quick) descriptions of bodily changes mentioned here and there that I found bizarre and rather unnecessary, and, last but not least, as an animal lover, 'part' of one storyline was quite bothersome.Overall though, each story is an interesting tale in itself....with a message....that culminates into one thought-provoking read....Would you want to know?
4.5 for this novel centered around 4 siblings in New York. It’s 1969, these Jewish siblings ages 13-7, two boys and two girls, hear on the street that there is a woman in the city who can tell fortunes. They visit her and she sees them one at a time, and tells them the date they will die.So we follow these kids through the years and see how this information changes the way they live and their relationships with their family and others.I really enjoyed this book!
They hooked into individuals and wormed through generations."And the utterance of dates murmured by an unreliable mystical woman on a scorching hot summer's day is the focus of this story.
The gift of life is like handing over the reins of a wild runaway stallion.
And as the story unfolds there are more and more head-shaking incidents that occur.....actions that seem outlandish and out of character for these individuals.Chloe Benjamin gives us four character studies each pinned against a precise historical timeline.
Daniel's story made little sense and Varya is in a holding pattern until the very end.
It all comes back to the power of words........
Klara, Daniel, Simon, and Vanya each learn of their date with death and the novel follows them in seeing what that knowledge does to their young lives.Eventually, Simon (a young gay boy) with his sister Klara (a girl fascinated with magic) run to the freedom and lifestyle of San Francisco in the 1970's.
He is the one who eventually will seek out the fortuneteller and meet his destiny.Varya becomes a research scientist, looking into the ways to possibly prolong life.
E-galley provided by Edelweiss, G.P. Putnam & Sons, and Author Chloe Benjamin. To be published January 9, 2018. A special shout out to Michael Kindness for his profuse recommendation of The Immortalists.I was lured in wanting to know the fate of the four Gold siblings whose date of death is foretold by a nomadic fortuneteller. To my amazement this was not the best part. Mesmerizing and so well told. The publishing date of January 9, 2018 can’t come soon enough. The Immortalists is bound to be a best of 2018 for me.
This is my first 5 star rating of a novel that I didn’t really like at all most of the way through...
I came very close to not finishing.
That is why I am completely baffled by my own reaction.
The pieces to this puzzle are not really unique on their own, however, once they come together the product is utterly amazing.
Upon finishing I could not fathom giving it anything other than 5 stars.
it yearns to be discussed and I’m really looking forward to others reactions & thoughts.
‘The cost of loneliness is high...
the cost of loss is higher.’; ‘Thoughts have wings.’
This was a book from the library on my want to read list. I just finished and couldn’t put it down but now filled with sadness and a general feeling of true unnecessary sorrow for the family. So many themes in this book, fate vs freewill, happiness versus duty/obligation, freedom versus family and many more.It is certainly a book that leaves you pondering your own goals, hopes and dreams for the life that you are given.
Without doubt an interesting and intriguing premise and a book that caught me by surprise for many reasons.Extremely well written and plotted and a book that was certainly fresh and quite a page turner.
Having said that none of the above affected my reading or rating of the novel.This was a bookclub read and I can see great discussion on this particular choice.
I really liked the family dynamics and this one reminded me of Commonwealth byAnn Patchett.An interesting and different book that I look forward to discussing for my sit in bookclub.
It is a novel about fate and agency, about finding a place in the world, about family and selfhood, about mistakes and guilt and forgiveness.This book's prologue was absolutely bloody brilliant.
I needed to know what happens to the children and how the knowledge of their death date will influence their lives.Each section of the book then follows one of the children until the day they die; I especially found the first two sections following Simon and Klara to be brilliant and unputdownable.
Simon's story broke my heart, from his family's rejection to its inevitable conclusion; Klara's story was equally engaging and their relationship was absolutely beautifully executed.
Chloe Benjamin's debut novel The Immortalists juggles many questions - do we create our fates or are we slaves to them, how should and how do we live our lives when faced with certain death, what wonder or magic exists for us when we continually learn and know things that take the mystery away - but at the core are these four siblings, and how they reckon with each other and themselves.
Klara, the most enigmatic of the siblings, has a unique perspective and position as the titular Immortalist, an amateur magician whose true powers lie in her adept reading of the hearts and minds of others.
Roosevelt Park, keeping to the shade beneath the trees.”It’s there, in this Lower East-Side neighborhood, that Daniel hears the fortune-teller is living, a woman capable of telling you what life holds in store for you, including when you’ll die.”Perhaps nothing would have happened were it not the pit of summer, with a month and a half of humid boredom behind them and a month and a half ahead.
Eventually, Klara finds love, as well, and becomes a mother.Left behind with their mother, Varya and Daniel are worried at first, and then angry at their disappearance.
Mostly it's just used as an excuse to explore what it means to live one's "best life." Try to cram as much life in as possible before death catches up (and maybe inadvertently cause it in the process)?
Live life cautiously and fearfully, trying to prevent death at the expense of freedom and joy (forgetting that it comes to everyone eventually)?It's an interesting, if not overdone, concept, but doesn't add much insight that hasn't already been explored by better writers.
The novel is well-written and Benjamin's greatest strength is her exhaustive study of each Gold sibling and their loved ones.
Should we fear death, or embrace life all the more because of it?These are the questions Chloe Benjamin has us consider in this beautiful novel.
How they handle this information is told through each one's story, with settings from San Francisco in the 1980's, to Las Vegas, to upstate New York, and finally, at a research facility in California, where Varya, the oldest of the children, comes face to face with fate, choices, the past and the present, and letting go of fear.This novel has been getting a lot of publicity, which sometimes makes we wary, but I think it deserves all the accolades it's been getting.
A very different family saga which raises some questions that deserve thinking about, it's also beautifully written, with very real characters that I loved.
First, this is mistitled. Second, I listened to every word. Narrator, Maggie Hoffman is excellent. Third. My overall conclusion is that this is 99% downerville. The writing while good, scatters this novel and leaves the listener/reader unfulfilled. If you favor tragedies with lots of depression, this is for you. 4 of 10 stars
Still need to chew on the rating overnight but this book was at least 4.5 stars! Full review to follow.
