https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18660447-the-fill-in-boyfriend
Especially that bitch, Jules, who's like, trying to totally steal away ALL HER FRIENDS.
Her friends are understandably impressed, because really, which high school girl is going to think about statutory rape when the guy is, like, SO HOT.
Get Fake Bradley's sister (who goes to the same school with her, whom she didn't know went to the same school, much less class with her, see note above about Gia not giving a shit about anyone outside of her hallowed social circle) to give her Fake Brad's real name3.
“You only care about your friends seeing me.” “That’s not true.” Okay, so it was kinda true. But only because of Jules. She’d infiltrated our group a year ago and ever so slowly tried to turn my best friends against me. Get your tissues ready, this is the saddest story you've heard all year.Meet Gia Montgomery - a beautiful, popular, wealthy 17-year-old girl with loving parents and early acceptance to UCLA. But Gia, you know, she's got it bad. I mean, her hot college boyfriend not only broke u
Get your tissues ready, this is the saddest story you've heard all year.Meet Gia Montgomery - a beautiful, popular, wealthy 17-year-old girl with loving parents and early acceptance to UCLA.
I mean, her hot college boyfriend not only broke up with her on prom night but, by doing so, he also sabotaged her plan to get even with her evil arch nemesis - Jules - and prove she DID actually have a boyfriend.Oh lord - and on top of that?
For some reason, she's got this impression that Gia is a bitch who cares for no one but herself and her little group of popular bitches:
Despite its many, many flaws, I found myself turning page after page without effort, my mind fully invested in the story.Reading this book was like watching a retelling of Mean Girls, in which Gia is the lost-to-the-Plastics character played by Lindsay Lohan.
Gia is stressed the hell out of her mind, b/c it was primordial she proved to her friends she actually had a boyfriend.Don’t read this book if you’re looking for a deep and teary-eye-worthy story.
Sure, the drama could have been directed somewhere else but, like I said before, this is a rom-com type of book.
05/21/2015 The more I think about this book, the less I seem to like it. I'm completely bummed about that since The Fill-in Boyfriend was one of my most anticipated releases of 2015. You can't see me, but I'm pouting right now.The first issue I had with the book came in just within the first couple of pages. I know that we're thrust into the book knowing that Fake Bradley will agree to the terms of being Gia's fake boyfriend, but the way it was executed in the actual book made no sense. It was
The more I think about this book, the less I seem to like it.
I'm fifteen, and I talk things out with my friends if I feel like they're doing something wrong.
They had no personality and were basically useless to the entire story, which is a shame since Kasie's other books have amazing family dynamics.Speaking of cardboard cut-outs, we also have Gia's friends.
No swoons.The only reason I'm not giving this book one star is because I appreciated how Gia's problems with her friends were realistic.
Wowzas. This was bad. It seems Kasie West and I just have a love hate relationship (more hate than love thus far though I did really enjoy By Your Side). I didn't really like anything about this, but my biggest problem was that the synopsis reveals a "plot twist" (using that term loosely) that happens in the last 100 or so pages. What is up with that nonsense??? Overall just not for me. Should've skipped it.
AND I FINISHED WITH A SMILE ON MY FACE!!! he's totally MINE !!!
Seriously, Kasie. ANYTHING you write, I will read.
The book presents the reader with a number of not-so-original situations, true, and the main plot was not so original to begin with, even truer; but at the end of the day -and I learned this through experience- when the writing is so crisp and the characters so compelling, these are but very minor flaws, so much so that I wouldn't even call them "flaws".
I usually like open endings, and this is no exception, all the more so as I think it was particularly fit for this story.Basically, (view spoiler)[Gia messes up things with her friends (who weren't that supportive to begin with, honestly) and, no matter how hard she tries, she's unable to make it right, at least for the moment.
The story plot was something light but well executed, it had me hooked from page one to ‘The End.’I really loved some characters and really detested other characters in this story.
She ended up seeing that her life had to have a few changes and I was so proud of her as her character progressed through the story.
I loved her from the get go, haha.
Olivia, artsy, caring, motherly and all around AMAZING character.
The not so favorite characters:Eve, Spencer, Jules, Bradley, Drew, Gia’s parents (until about the last few chapters) and Nate.
Actual rating : 3.5 stars I have a question for you : how am I supposed to rate a book whose flaws are so obvious I just know many of my friends will be bothered but which let me with such a huge smile glued on my face?
First because I love reading about flawed characters when they aren't annoying (she's not) and then because the development of her character was really good and well-handled in my opinion.As for Fill-in Bradley, whose real name is a secret therefore I won't write it here, it's pretty simple actually : I adore him.
4.5YOU NEED TO BUY THIS!END OF REVIEW.Not good enough? FINE YOU NEED TO BUY THIS NOW! END OF REVIEW That was totally better, right?Still not good enough?FINE, fine! Shut your trap hole, I'll give you more ^.^Now, in all seriousness-not that I wasn't being serious before- this was all I hoped for and more. I remember adding this book to my TBR when it was just that drabby old GR gray cover. All it had was a tittle and Kasie's name on it. Then when the blurb came out, all I saw was fake relationsh
4.5YOU NEED TO BUY THIS!END OF REVIEW.Not good enough?
It was late and by late I mean 11 pm (I need 7 hours of sleep-sue me-if I actually plan on functioning).
We have the mean girl Jules and the BFF Claire.
I remember being best friends with "Claire" and the constant non-stop bickering with "Jules".
These were the people I saw day in and day out for years.
And you know what?I'm fricking glad.We all went our separate ways but till this day I'm still best friends with "Bec".
Baby steps, people.
"I could try to guess your preferences.""My preferences in a kiss?"I nodded, our faces still very close together."My preference is simple-you."  I can't say these aren't clichéd. I can't say they haven't been done before. I can't say there are bad boys and perilistic moments. And I certainly can't say they are perfect. But what I can say? They may have clichéd moments, but they are written impeccably well. They may have been done before, but never as adorably. There may not be bad boys, but the
I have had a bad couple weeks (yes there have been happy moments, like Cedar Point) and the only thing that I really have been looking forward to are these happy little books that make your heart beat faster than should be humanly possible and the [good] boys I have been falling for in my binge-read-for-happiness.
So, when she sees an adorable boy sitting in the parking lot (reading, mind you), she asks him to fill his place so it won't look like she was lying-Yes, I see the irony here-and she can prove her horrid frienemy wrong.
3.5 but rounding it up because of the holiday spirit.^^ Kasie West is one of my go-to authors when I'm looking for cutesy YA romantic novels with lots of clichés (they're actually her main ingredients, just look at the cover and title of this book).^^ But she has this special way of making them bearable so that the overused premise particularly in this book- popular girl fakes relationship with a not so popular guy (to save face) but eventually falls for the guy for reals- becomes likable, charming even.Behind the tropes are significant social messages that educate readers, in this case, about people's over-reliance on the social media and other people's validation of one's self-worth making the story more meaningful than expected.
Cute! As expected! Was a bit disappointed with the ending as much wasn't really resolved. Urg her friends were so annoying! Jules was on my last nerve. What a B! *Inject book into veins now!*
I loved every bit about this book. Well maybe not the bitch Jules. Would recommend to others.
So, the covers of Kasie West's contemporary/romance novels has a pattern.
Lol. I know I'm not the only one.After reading her two romantic novels, I made a decision to trust only Kasie West when it comes to the genre I don't usually read-- the romance genre (I'm serious.
Oh I love it too.When it comes to cute and sweet romance, Kasie West is digging it.
This book also contained hurtful and unhappy scenes that somehow I put myself on the characters and think what will I do in these circumstances if I were them.
Gia finds a guy in the parking lot and begs him to pretend to be Bradley.
He agrees and helps her out, before not telling her his name and disappearing.But now Gia can't get Fill-in-Bradley out of her head, and her one connection to him is not thrilled to help out.
On top of this, Gia seems to be going through a self realization, and she might not like the person she's become.
The only thing I really didn't like about this book was the resolution, it felt unresolved.Highly recommend if you like YA sweet reads.
“Hayden?""Yes,Gia?""Nothing I just wanted to say your name."
At the same time though, she's extremely clueless about a lot of things and cares way too much what people think about her.
Bec is Fib's sister and she does not like Gia at all which was so funny to watch.
But it is what it is, so four stars from me!You should still read this book because Kasie West writes the most adorable stories and always manages to put a smile on my face.
i'm so happy i really enjoyed this. i was worried bc i didn't like on the fence but THIS WAS SO SO SO CUTE
Gia owes him a favor and his sister intends to see that he collects: his ex-girlfriend's graduation party — three hours, zero commitment, a few white lies.Just when Gia begins to wonder if she could turn her fake boyfriend into a real one, Bradley comes waltzing back into her life, exposing her lie, and threatening to destroy her friendships and her new-found relationship.
Sometimes we need to catch and release a few before we find the keeper.”    I went into this book with only one thing on my mind; get out of my reading slump.
I've read 3 of her books so far: PS I Like You, The Distance Between Us and The Fill-In Boyfriend.
Like all Kasie's books, this one was light and super easy to read.
I'm pretty aware that this is a pattern in Kasie's books, but I wish I got more of Hayden and Gia. Gia was a meh MC, I don't really feel a thing for her; however, I do love her character development!
However, I don't remember how the ending was in PS I Like You. Despite all this, this book still served its purpose: be a light and fluffy read while maintaining to shed light on issues.
It's just so heartwarming and sweet, and it a bit early to say this (I haven't read too many contemporary novels) but I don't think I'll ever tire of it.
I was satisfied with what his name ended up being though, it's a cute name (and no I'm not going to tell you what it is, you'll have to read it and find out for yourself).I didn't like Gia at the start of the book, she was self centered and way to concerned with validation.
Despite the sort of unrealistically shallow characters, this was a sweet heartwarming story.
3.5/5 starsWell I guess I'm just floating my way through all of Kasie West's books!
I didn't like this as much as PS I Like You or The Distance Between us, but I still really liked it!
The beginning was a little rough, mostly because I didn't connect with Gia, but there was good reason for that since that's how she grows as a character throughout the book.
I still wish some of the side characters had been more developed, but I think that was kind of the point.
LOVE HIM.
HE IS GREAT AND ALSO NERDY AND ALSO LOVES MUSICALS.
Kasie West: mother of fluffs, vanquisher of reading slumps._______________________________Book song: Cigarette Daydreams by Cage The Elephant._______________________________
To be honest, I was absolutely sure that I would love this story, even with the funny (though a bit unfortunate) title. And don’t get me wrong, the story is cute and quite amusing, for a younger audience it might sound much better anyways, but there were some things that made my rating drop a bit..Gia is very immature.Her problems with Jules made me laugh in frustration (because there was nothing left that I could do) and I wanted to shake them both for being so stupid.Then there were more thin
And don’t get me wrong, the story is cute and quite amusing, for a younger audience it might sound much better anyways, but there were some things that made my rating drop a bit..Gia is very immature.Her problems with Jules made me laugh in frustration (because there was nothing left that I could do) and I wanted to shake them both for being so stupid.Then there were more things..Like, the fact that her other friends were just as shallow as Gia, her parents made me want to scream at them to get real (they weren’t bad parents per see, but they seemed not to care much about their kids and I never understood why that was) and her brother (though he was so right about everything in the movie) should have known better than to go around hiding things and assuming that he had permission for what he did.The reason for the fill-in boyfriend was ridiculous in this context.
the main character, gia, was painfully shallow and the writing left much to be desired.
however, that still doesn't excuse the fact that for a good majority of this book, gia is painted as a girl whose only concerns revolve around boys.
one thing this book really had going for it was entertainment value.
i was invested in the sense that i wanted to know when things would happen (because the predictability of the events gives you plenty of knowledge of what's going to happen, it's just a matter of the timing).
am i the only one who thought this book cut off so suddenly?
If her lies are exposed, will she lose her friends and her new-found romance?I don't really think the synopsis does the book justice.
(Of course, I wanted her to just ditch them, but Gia can't discount years of them being close.) The new friend she makes - "Fill-In Boyfriend"'s sister - is a highlight of the book.
In the end she became a great friend to Gia, and I would love for her to get her own book someday.There is of course a romance, which is very sweet and light.
I was quite shocked when at the end it wasn’t a complete “happily ever after” which was a nice change from the norm and I appreciated that.I really wanted to punch the main problem in this story because she was so annoying BUT without this girl, Gia wouldn’t have been able to see how shallow she really was and it was able to see great things around her.
It shows the side of real issues that teens have and face during their high school years and it also shows wonderful things that happen and can shape a person.Overall this is a sweet, fun yet deep story which it completely enjoyable.Sexual Content: mildLanguage: mildDrugs/Alcohol: mildViolence: mild
Have you noticed her book covers are pretty much the same? Two headless bodies facing each other. Like. I mean. Seriously.
In The Fill-In Boyfriend, the main character, Gia, is dumped by her college boyfriend in the parking lot outside her prom.
He's the perfect gentlemen, and after prom, Gia can't stop thinking about him - the only problem is, she has no clue who he is.I really liked Gia as a character.
Up until that moment outside of prom she'd had a perfect life - her parents weren't overbearing, she was popular, and had a wonderful boyfriend.
We didn't get off to the best of starts, with him dumping her outside of prom, and he didn't get any better as the book went on.
