https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2577172-bambi-s-children
This book lacked the artistic inspiration of the first book and was riddled with childlike characterization and dialogue in comparison to the eerie and un-human intelligence that was characterized in its predecessor.
It's not very realistic for deer behavior, and it conflicts with the tone and message of the first book, but it's reassuring and heart-warming all the same.The philosophical tone from the previous book is still somewhat present here, and the meaning of Man's role in Nature is thoughtfully discussed.
If you're a fan of all things Bambi, philosophical children's books, or just xenofiction/talking animal fantasy in general, definitely give this a read.
Brilliant. Bambi is so beast in this. He is no longer the little Disney fawn we're used to seeing in the media. This buck is a hero: he rescues his daughter from human captivity, he faces down a wild dog, and he even BUCKS a teen boy hunting in the woods. This book makes Bambi the legend he was supposed to be. An incredibly enjoyable read!
This book wasn't quite as good as Bambi, but it was still a very enjoyable read. Geno and Gurri both had distinct, well fleshed out personalities. They matured at a good pace throughout the novel. Their interactions with other deer were well handled for the most part, although the young buck Gurri interacts with toward the end did feel like he was shoehorned into the plot for the sake of giving her a (view spoiler)[ ultimately doomed (hide spoiler)] love interest. The main exception to this is e
This book wasn't quite as good as Bambi, but it was still a very enjoyable read.
Their interactions with other deer were well handled for the most part, although the young buck Gurri interacts with toward the end did feel like he was shoehorned into the plot for the sake of giving her a (view spoiler)[ ultimately doomed  (hide spoiler)] love interest.
I really didn't like how Bambi was handled in this book.
That's a huge shame because one of the original novel's biggest strengths was that the deer didn't feel humanized.
It's not as extraordinary as the original, but it is still quite good.
Learning Woodlore Survival SkillsPerfect for a one-night bedtime story this adaptation invites young readers to continue to story of beloved Bambi and his Faline. Now they have twin fawns who must learn to survive in the woods and the wild, but youngsters often disobey their elders… How will Faline and her daughter, Gurri, manage for months without son, Geno, and Bambi’s wise, reassuring presence? Will the little family make it through the spring to reach another autumn? June 28, 2017
It was a really enjoyable, really marvelous and very excellent children's novel sequel. It had really beautiful illustrations, really memorable characters, really great adventure, really excellent drama, really nice humor and a really nice story. It is a excellent sequel to the original novel, "Bambi." I really recommend this book to old and new "Bambi" fans of all ages.
Az életről szól, a családról, a barátokról, a harcról… Kicsit féltem, hogy mit hoz fel a 9 és fél éves lelkéből, de jól viselte. Közösen borzongtunk és vágyakoztunk ki a szabadba, az erdőbe, a napfényre, a természetbe, ami sokkal igazabb és tisztább, mint az a betondoboz, amiben élünk.
Book Bingo 2017 - Backlist from an author you read for another square.
Read May 2018
(Though the passages about the trees conversing with each other were pretty interesting, and the way all the animals spoke and interacted seemed so authentic it was like reading what animals really think and how they really communicated.) The extended family of Bambi and Faline (Rolla and her children Lana and Boso, and the poor orphan bucks Nello and Membo) add a nice level of interest and interaction, and Bambi is a great character, even if, as is the way of nature, he's not as present a character as he is in the first book.The themes of naturalism and detached philosophy are intact, and have a few more outlets to express themselves than in the first book, and it was nice that the mysterious and dangerous "He" wasn't as maligned as a heartless killing machine, just as an unknown creature, often capable of kindness and even an occasional source of protection.This was a mostly pretty charming sequel to the previous book.
3.5. I am a huge fan of Bambi, and have read it at least 10 times in my life. This sequel is fine, cute, a little dull-- but basically the title is the entire plot. If this book were a Disney movie, it would be released straight to Video (DVD).Nothing new, different or innovative and lacked the emotional punch of the first book.
It's just following the life of these roe deer, and their struggle to survive with Man hunting a lot of their kind.This time, however, I feel like the characters are a bit more defined.
Especially showing a human point of view here makes for a nice continuation for the original, which ended with (spoilers) Bambi realizing Man isn't some kind of immortal and untouchable evil god, but rather a creature that can be harmed and is mortal like anyone else.I guess my biggest gripe with this book is the big-lipped alligator moment with the trees talking.
Interesting book, certainly a worthy sequel to the original "Bambi, A Life in the Woods" by Felix Salten.This is not the warm and fuzzy book you may expect based on associations with the Disney film, but more of a study of survival in the sometimes inhospitable forest.
This is a central conflict in the story of Bambi's children.
This book also examines the emotions which may or may not be true for forest animals, however they are certainly human emotions, and the conflicts depicted here are not resolved quickly nor without emotional scars.
The sequel to the classic Bambi, this book, while containing well-loved characters and lovable new ones, the same vivid imagery, etc., it is disappointingly lacking compared to the previous book.
It is a brighter, happier, and more childish book than its predecessor.
It makes me think that this was more of a sequel for exclusively children, while Bambi could be read and enjoyed by adults as well.
Bambi seemed out of character, and the beginning of his meeting with his children for the first time was different than it was in the first book.
Nevertheless, this was a enjoyable book, and a fair companion to Bambi.
As I read on, I began to marvel the 'changing' in the setting and the 'growing up' for Bambi's children-Geno and Gurri.What I really marvel and enjoy about this book is how clearly described is the change in time and season.
Salten describes the seasons really clearly and I find it full of meaning.
I feel a kind of compassionate feeling when time goes on, as that I want time to linger, for the moment is to good to pass on.Plus, Salten introduces the normal habits and abilities of a deer, and lets the reader know a bit of forest lore.I wish that Salten would write a sequel for this book, since I really want to know what would happen to Gurri, Geno, Boso, Lana, Membo and his brother.
This book tells the story of Bambi's children as well as Bambi as a powerful father who will do anything for his son and daughter.
Whereas Bambi, A Life in the Woods was more a book that discussed themes of a higher power, Bambi's Children is more of an entertaining story.
It's fun to see Bambi as the great prince of the forest as well as a loving father who is more involved in the lives of his family than his own father was, Faline as a mature mother who still has her spunk, their son who is just like his father in every way, and their daughter who is a mixture of her spontaneous mother and wise father.
This book has been one of my favourites since I read it when I was nine.
It has remained on my bookshelf ever since and while the copy I own is dogeared and the pages falling apart, it is well loved and well-read.
I never tire of the story of Faline, Geno, Gurri and Bambi as well as all their friends in the forest.
It broadens the world of Bambi into something much bigger and a vision in my head of a wonderful home in the woods with clearings and the meadow and just a whole world that I wish I could fall into - and do, time and time again.
This one, I think, was a bit harder to follow than the original, which is why I only gave it four stars. However, I still enjoyed the story quite a bit and I think that some of the characterizations are more three-dimensional here than they were in the first story.
Kids really like it, and sat riveted on the edge of their seats as I read it to them. Great read aloud story, especially with the Bambi movie being available. It made for a nice follow up to what happened to Bambi's children.
I remember the smell of my dad's old copy of this. It is one of my earliest memories, and a book I loved unreservedly. I didn't even know there was a book that came before till much later. I think I need to re-read this one.
I enjoyed this more than Bambi when I was child. Perhaps it was because I actually read it first, but it was mostly like to due to the fact that it focused more on his daughter. It is a good, perhaps a better, sequel.
I remember really loving this book as a child. This rating is based on my remembrance. I should pick this one up again.
A wonderful sequel, sorry to leave Salten's forest world!
I was afraid a Bambi sequel would be a pale shadow of the original, but this was a more than satisfying read with some touches of humor. Love the proverb-spouting screech-owl and talking trees.
A treasured book from my childhood, which I still own. I know I read this repeatedly as a child. I LOVED Bambi.
This squeal is fairly unheard of, but probably one of the best I have ever read! It's much lighter in tone than Bambi and the story is cute.
Retains much of the charming and idyllic writing and scenes of the first, though lacking some of the freshness. Very episodal in nature. For lovers of Bambi, a reasonably satisfying follow up.
This is one of my favorite books. I love the story how is told from the point of view of the deer and not an anonymous narrator. Also I have a version from 1930 so it is really cool and old
One of my favorite books as a kid.
The favorite book of my childhood. :)
