https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13600318-reckless
Literally my world ceased to exist for the duration of the read.Just as with the first two books, SC Stephens’ smooth flowing, utterly addictive writing style reaches right into your heart and wraps you up in the story.
After all the roller coaster they’d been through, it was so wonderful to see Kellan and Kiera have a moment to enjoy the happiness they so well deserved.But the life of a Rockstar is neither smooth nor private and the road ahead of them was rocky and bumpy as the band skyrocketed to fame and got sucked into the scrutiny of the spotlight and the uglier side of the industry.
SPOILER FREE REVIEW -mature content reader discretion is advised.5 STARS out of 5Genre: Contemporary RomanceSIDENOTE: Do not read if you have not read books 1&2Whether you loved it or felt it came up short there is one thing you cannot deny. The magnetic panty melting sexiness that is Kellan Kyle.Kellan   My Casting     I...Shit...I don't even know where to begin. I'll just talk about what I loved! One of the most highly anticipated books of 2013 had it's highs and lows for the characters we
Maybe it's just me but I love how relationships are captured in this book.Kiera and KellanThese two ripped out my heart, lungs, liver and all other vital organs throughout this whole series.In ThoughtlessI loved him and hated herIn EffortlessI loved him and slowly started to like herIn RecklessI loved him and I totally have a girl crush on her *shrugs* What can I say, she grew on me!
But the relationship that really really did a number on me was the one between Kellan, Kiera and Denny.
“I love you. I would do it all over again if I needed to. I’d go back to the beginning for you.”~ Kellan  Reckless read like one enormous epilogue to me and I thought that it was ABSOLUTE PERFECTION! Does this book have an excess amount of angst or drama? No, but it gives KK lovers their happily ever after and I’ve been on book hangover ever since!S.C. Stephens engrossing writing completely captured me from the first book of the series to the last line of Reckless. A reader can’t help falling i
A reader can’t help falling in love with Kellan Kyle.
There is no way of getting around it nor would a reader look for one...just see my name above.I didn’t agree with how Kiera handled her situation in Thoughtless.
Kiera was supportive of Kellan and the boys throughout this book.
NO ONE could stand between them or break them up and believe me Siera Sexton and Joey tried.Kellan Kyle is the best book male character of all time PERIOD!
Time heals all wounds and thankfully, the love triangle of Thoughtless has moved past the betrayal and hurt to a good place.
This plot was true-to-life and it was refreshing to see two characters already in love working together to keep and maintain their relationship against real-world challenges.
My heart rejoiced for them, however, as they fought tooth-and-nail to preserve their relationship and their love for each other.
In this book Keira's strength of character shined brilliantly, and Kellan...was...well...Kellan...swoon-worthy and perfectly delectable.
Can someone please tell me how a book that isn't due for release UNTIL March 5, 2013, and is still currently being written, already has 175 ratings?From what S.C. Stephen's September 3rd, 2012 Facebook update says, she is STILL currently writing this book.
Keeping my fingers crossed cause I really like these two characters, well I like Keira but LOVE Kellan.
Here's the link to the original ending of Thoughtless:http://www.fictionpress.com/s/2715147...Updated:I'm so sad, I can't believe it's over and their story is done.
In Thoughtless I wanted to smack Kierra at times even though I could relate to her I still wanted to slap her (probably because I love Kellan so).
In Effortless it was painful at times reading their pain and having trust issues.
Remembering the original ending to Thoughtless I was holding my breath at times nearing the last 1/3 of the story.
⭐⭐⭐⭐ ! Life in the spotlight proves more challenging than expected for Kelly and Kiera. Will love survive or will fame tear them apart? Oh my god you guys!!! I think that for the first time that the last(!) book in a series may just be my favourite! ”Reckless” was just SO good!! Any new book release has yet to make me so excited that I was for “Reckless'.” Right in that moment, I felt that “Reckless” was the book I've been waiting my entire life to read. “Reckless” continues right where “Effortl
Any new book release has yet to make me so excited that I was for “Reckless'.” Right in that moment, I felt that “Reckless” was the book I've been waiting my entire life to read.
Soon it's also time for Kiera to join Kellan on tour, something not without its challenges.
Poor Kiera, it's not always easy to be married to the worlds sexiest rockstar and be hated by all female population.Needless to say that I loved this book over and beyond.
Every time I read these books something magical happens; it's like a vacation from the world and nothing no longer exists, except for Kellan.
2.5 stars I'll keep this short and sweet. I'm sad to say this book just did not work for me. As I was reading it, I felt like this ship had sailed and think (for me) this series should've ended with book 2. It could be that too much time passed between books 2 & 3. Maybe I hyped it up in my head too much. I don't know. It saddens me because I was really looking forward to it. That being said I still look forward to future books from this author.
I read Thoughtless and Effortless before I ever started blogging, so I'm a little nervous to write this review...
I feel like I know them so well and it makes my heart ache when I remind myself 'These are not real people!'I want to know how many beautiful babies they make.
But for me, it will always be the series that reminds me just why I love reading.
And I don't think I even need to mention the fact that I want to date/live with/kiss/lick/have babies with/marry Kellan Friggin' Kyle!!!
But then I think...In the first two books we joined Keira and Kellan in their incredible Journey finding love and success...We lived through them...Laughed with themHad fun with them..Felt their pain..Felt their weakness Felt their passion..And last shared their happiness.."Tangling my hands through his hair, I gazed at him until I thought my heart might burst.
The love and passion between these two is amazing!Kellan throws a surprise bachelorette party for Keira.
People ridicule Keira as she is 'the other woman'- Kellan wants the truth out there...
I WAS LIKE....In hospital family and friends come...
5 Kellan loving stars!!!!!Reckless exceeded all my expectations! Absolutely loved it!!!  You’ll never know how incredible you are to me , how desperately I love you. I would do it all over again if I needed to. I’d go back to the beginning for you. KELLAN KYLE “Sex on a stick.” KIERA ALLEN  KELLAN <3 KIERA  “Everyone eventually falls for the two of you together. You’re meant to be.”   I would always be first in his eyes. We were a good match. A perfect match. Soul mates.  Reckless picked up r
5 Kellan loving stars!!!!!Reckless exceeded all my expectations!
KELLAN KYLE
KELLAN <3 KIERA 
A perfect match.
Kiera and Kellan are together and stronger than ever.
Kiera has just graduated college and is going on tour with the boys.
I will ALWAYS love Kellan Kyle.
If it is possible, he may have been even MORE perfect in this book....
Kiera didn’t annoy me in this book at all!
I like Kiera, but in the first two books, there were times she drove me crazy!
I loved how he evolved in this book, but still managed to stay his crazy self!
More Kellan? More Kellan? WE. GET. MORE. KELLAN?! *swoon*Unf.My body is so ready it's not even funny.
Reading this was a mixture of excitement to see the next chapter in Kellan and Kiera’s story, tinged with sadness that the series was coming to an end.I wasn’t ready to say goodbye to these characters in Effortless and I’m even less thank ready to say goodbye to them after Reckless.
Knowing that this is the end, that it is time to say goodbye…well it hurts.I met Kellan and Kiera a lot later than you Jenny but despite my journey with them only having lasted a year or so they are a big part of why I love to read and they will always have a piece of my heart.
Reckless Book Trailer: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYaDe...In Thoughtless, S.C. Stephens took the exhausted use of a fictional love triangle and redefined it.
S.C. Stephens is talented enough to win me over every time.One thing I loved about Reckless was Kiera’s growth.
What I didn’t expect, was to fall in love with Kellan Kyle even more.
He showed so much emotion and vulnerability, but at the same time he didn’t lose what makes him Kellan Kyle.
But I’m really not sure how I’ll be able to survive in a world without more Kellan Kyle.
-- A Romantic Book Affairs ReviewSEXY AS SIN KELLAN!   *** If you read this review, I’m assuming you’ve read the first two books. If not, then you will read some spoilers from Thoughtless and Effortless.*** Reckless exceeded all of my expectations. This series and I have been through so much together. I have loved these books. I have hated these books. But mostly, I love them. They hold a very special place in my heart. It’s bitter sweet to say goodbye to these characters. When I reached the las
And, together as a power couple, they will begin another journey where they must fight their way to the top while dealing with more obstacles thrown at them as Kellan becomes a famous Rock God.
His journey may have been a painful one, but he has now found the love that he’s been looking for all his life within his wife, friends, family, and his adoring fans.This really felt like a character driven story.
I found a lot of admiration in Kellan and Kiera as they stayed true to each other during all of the drama that kept coming their way.
Can anyone believe there's gonna be a third thoughtless book .... when did life get so GOOD!!! ......... PLEASE PLEASE LET IT BE RELEASED THIS YEAR !!!!!!!!!!!!!!Edit: And waiting n waiting n waiting, and wishing *biting nails* and barely containing myself from shouting HOW MUCH LONGER ... The wait is killing me ...... oh and for all those who need a thread to get byWhat I'm working on... by S.C. Stephensand those who knew about this never mind:D i just found it today:D
yeah she has tears in her eyes pretty much all the time and she is still a bit annoying (i am very surprised to see her acting mature) and yes some parts where to sweet for me butFOR F*CK'S SAKE THIS IS KELLAN KYLE WE ARE TALKING ABOUT!!!!!!!!Buddy read with ShellyB!!!! Thanks for waiting for me all the time :))))))
My Kellan and Kiera: "My soul.
My better half.
My reason for being.
Nothing in my life would ever fill me with as much joy and peace as Kellan did." I really like S.C Stephens and her other books so it hurts me to write this review but I have to be honest.
This story just did not touch me and overall it did not work very well for me.
After all drama that happened between Kellan and Keira in previous books, I was hoping to get more mature characters this time.
And in some extent, I got what I wan
After all drama that happened between Kellan and Keira in previous books, I was hoping to get more mature characters this time.
He may behave like Neantherthal from time to time but he is one of the most funniest and likeable characters ever written and I wish there was more of him in this book!Moreover, I am probably in minority but I think this series should have ended with book 2.
I loved the way things ended in Effortless and probably some epilogue would be enough to finish Kellan's and Kiera's story.
True Kellan fans will probably love this book, I did not.
This series was fabulous!!
It's a long series too much to rehash and bottom line is with these books your either going to read them or your not.
I'm not going to try and sway anyone's opinion, my opinion is obvious...I LOVED every ONE of these damn books!!!!Kellan Kyle is sexy as HELL......no other words to describe him.......every woman's dream!Kiera you are one lucky b*tch...that's all I have to say!
The one thing they both learned in the 1,000 pages it took to get there was, honesty and truthfulness will get farther than anything;)Buddy read with Vishous!!!!
OMG! This is the most wonderful news I heard this year! Seriously,I'm not joking! I am going to read (hopefully) +500 pages of new Kellan adventures. I need to re-read the first two soon. More like now. *runs to find PlayBook*
❦ 5 Rose-Petals-Filled-Filled-With-Love-Notes Rating ❦  He need more and more of me. he would always want me near him. i would always be first in his eyes. We were a good match. A perfect match. Soul mates.Passion, friendship, love, loyalty, trust... if you found the right person... you really could have it all  ☆~♪~☆~♫~♩~☆~♬~☆~♪~☆~♫~♩~☆~♬~☆~♪~☆~♫~♩A truly awesome end to the series. My favorite book of the series. I loved watching all the characters grow, mature and develop into these amazing pe
I loved watching all the characters grow, mature and develop into these amazing people I find in book 3.
"I love you, too, Kiera, Just you.
I am going to miss Kellan...
I would sooooo give you lost of babies.I am going to miss Kiera...
Girl in this book...
I am SERIOUSLY going to miss Griffin and his mouth.
Of all people you deserve the star in maturity and completely turning yourself 180.
great job with Griffin :)I will miss Dbags and their loves.
There wasn't much of you in the book, especially the girls but it was awesome.Now word of advice...
I feel like an idiot.”I examined his skin, but I couldn’t really tell that he was wearing anything, maybe just some definition around his eyes; the blueness was popping out at me so much that my heart was beating a little faster.
“You look incredible darn near delectable.”Cocking his head, Kellan wrapped his arms around me.
Would you like a bite?” As I felt heat staining my cheeks, Kellan glanced around, then leaned down to my ear; the smell of the leather jacket mixing with his scent was intoxicating.
Kellan grabbed my hand when I stepped in front of him.
I placed my hand on his chest and looked him square in the eye.
“To fame, fortune, and scores of loose women!” Griffin downed his shot while the rest of us stared at him.When Griffin smacked his empty glass on the table, Matt continued with his toast like nothing had happened.
“Well, watching you is making me a little nervous.” Setting his drink down on a nearby table, he patted his lap.
This, Kellan could do naked, in front of a million people, and be just fine.
There was something seriously wrong with him.I straddled his lap, tangling my hands in his hair.
I placed a light kiss on his lips and Kellan let out a soft laugh.
After seeing people read books I long to read and them making comments on how great it is here in GR make me want to smack them at times (hey can't blame me I'm freaking jealous okay?).
We knew from the start that Kellan and Keira will get their happy ending.
And this book coming out we all wanted to know how they would "get" their happy ending.
The feeling that I had when I read Love Unrehearsed it was the same feeling I got after finishing this book.
I guess I would say that Griffin and Anna's story was more significant for me than Kellan and Keira's story.
"SHOW ME A GREAT MAN AND I WILL SHOW YOU THE GREAT WOMEN RIGHT NEXT TO HIM..." THIS IS THE FIRST THOUGHT THAT CAME TO MIND AS SOON AS I FINISHED RECKLESS.  I TRULY BELIEVE THIS BOOK BELONGS TO KIERA. KIERA!!! LONG GONE IS THE NAIVE, SHY, INSECURE, DISHONEST, YOUNG GIRL....IN HER WAKE A STRONG, WILLFUL, CONFIDENT, BEAUTIFULLY AMAZING SEXY AS HELL WOMEN HAS EMERGED...THIS IS KIERA'S DEBUT!!!  I KNEW WHAT I WANTED AND IT WAS HIM...  "I WAS REMEMBERING ALL OF THE REASONS WHY I LOVE YOU SO MUCH. I W
LIFE IS GOOD, KIERA JOINS KELLAN ON TOUR AND TOGETHER THEY MAKE IT WORK..THROUGH THE HELP OF SIENNA THE SNAKE aka MEGA SUPERSTAR THE D-BAGS SKY ROCKET TO THE TOP OVER NIGHT.BUT NOT ALL IS WHAT IT SEEMS, FOR SIENNA HAS A FEW TRICKS UP HER SLEEVE AS ALL GOOD VIXENS DO...THE LOVE THAT KIERA AND KELLAN HAVE FOR EACH OTHER GETS TESTED ON A WHOLE NEW LEVEL.
ITS FUNNY THAT I DIDN'T THINK TWICE WHEN KIERA CHOOSES KELLAN IN BOOK ONE.
THIS NEW DENNY ALSO GREW FROM EXPERIENCE AND LEARNED TO LOVE KELLAN AND KIERA AS FAMILY.HE ALSO REALIZED THAT THEY WERE MEANT TO BE.******************************************************
I am just in awe of S.
C. Stephens "Thoughtless" series.
It was gut-wrenching, beautiful, tied me up in knots series.
I read all three back to back to back as I could not wait to see how Kiera and Kellan's relationship ended up.
I was pleasantly pleased :)This is an author and series I would recommend to everyone, young and old, as I am 56 and my 30 year old daughter turned me on to this series.
I am soooooo glad she did!
I cannot wait to read all of her future books!
She is on my auto read list for sure!!!
It's hard to say a lot about the story as this is the third and the last book in the trilogy.
But as always the story follows Kiera and Kellan.
Well I know that Kiera is not the most-loving narrator ever but the thing is if you wanna get piece of Kellan (and you do) you must see through her eyes.
It'd be too harsh to say that this book wasn't necessary but really at some points the story was pushed too far.
The bottom line is even though I love this trilogy - Kellan the most - this book left some bitter taste in my mouth but some parts were enjoyable.
ABSOLUTELY FANFUCKINGTASTIC!!!!.....   6 STARS FOR AN EPIC SERIES END  [image error] Passion, friendship, love, loyalty, trust  .  .  . if you found the right person  .  .  . you really could have it all. I'm so sad to see this series come to an end...My heart has been through so much with these 3 books.. No other series, in my opinion, comes close to the amount on angsty love that Kellan and Kiera have been through over the course of their relationship.... Kellan and Kiera have finally arrived
No other series, in my opinion, comes close to the amount on angsty love that Kellan and Kiera have been through over the course of their relationship....
Kellan and Kiera have finally arrived at their happy place..their love for one another is so deep and their feelings for each other are so strong that you can't tell where one of them ends and the other begins--they are true soul mates and it is evident throughout this book[image error]The D-Bags have finally made it..
But Kiera and Kellan won't let anyone come between them--they love each other 100% and trust each other.
I’m so sorry but I just cannot resist this!!! Kellan, do it now PLEASE! :)--------------------------What an amazing ride. Thanks for the sleepless nights Kellan. I’m gonna miss you… Goodbye baby. :(
Finally....the book where Kiera and Kellan are together, really "together" with no more separation.
Thinking that's the end of it, Kellan heads to Los Angeles to gets things ready for the D-bag tour that Kiera will be joining as soon as her parents leave.
I loved...and hated that it bothered Kellan so much and I loved...and hated how he went through things.
Thankfully, enough was enough and just as Kiera and Kellan took a stand, things went crazy again.
Like I said, I love Kiera and Kellan but Griffin was hilarious.
Dear Kellan,Well, what can I say? The book hangover I had this morning was so worth it. I really never doubted it would be, after all you are Kellan Kyle: letter writing, rose petal leaving, Rock God. Admittedly, I was wary. First of all, this is the last time we’ll be spending together so I really built it up in my mind that it would be perfect. I know that was a lot of pressure for you, but as usual, you have not disappointed. Secondly, I was really worried because of…your… you know…  “wife”.
You have been so broken and damaged, and I get that, and I want you to feel loved, and appreciated, and worthy because you deserve that.So we are heading out on tour with you and I’m nervous.
As much as I can’t stand her, I know you love her so I’m willing her to put on her big girl panties and deal.
Having Kiera make decisions in this book based on what was in your best interest and having her worry about someone other than herself was… well… refreshing.
He’s funny as all hell and I loved that he brought Kiera comfort at just the right times.
