https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/182549.Paingod_and_Other_Delusions
4.5 stars. Very good collection of stories. The title story is excellent but my personal favorites from this collection were (1) The Discarded (worthy of 5 stars), (2) Bright Eyes (also worthy of five stars) and, of course, "Repent Harlequin!" Said the Ticktockman.
Ellison would go on, years later, to deal with the same subject in more depth as consultant and writer on one of my favorite science fiction television shows, Babylon 5.“Paingod” – This is the story of a minor deity whose job is to bring pain to life forms across the universe.
It’s never been one of my personal favorites—I find it flamboyant and silly—but it is an important and influential story in the history of science fiction.“The Crackpots” was the first story in Ellison’s Earth-Kyba war cycle.
The BasicsIf you know Ellison, then you know he’s almost exclusively a writer of short fiction.
That’s the power of this guy.Trying to review a collection of short stories can be difficult.
It’s considered one of his most famous works, and if you are interested in Ellison, you can’t pass it up.
It just goes to show that there is an innate fear of a simultaneous lack of control while being controlled by others that can be a story-telling goldmine in the right hands.Here comes the nitpick.
But the fears the main character, a surgeon outsourced by a robot, feels come off as pure melodrama.
I'd read "Repent, Harlequin, Said the Ticktock Man" in the past but I didn't enjoy it as much this time around despite knowing now that it's one of the most lauded short stories ever.It was a decent read.
It didn't have the individual story titles in the header, instead every page said "e-reads" which is pointless.
I'd have to flip back every time to remember the name of each story I was reading.Generally, I think I'm enjoying Ellison's introductions more than the books.
He's a killer introduction-writer and I've heard there's a book out there compiling them.
Crossposted from instagram @okrajak----ARE YOU AWARE OF HOW MUCH PAIN THERE IS IN THE WORLD?••Some weeks ago I finished reading the 1965 Harlan Ellison paperback anthology 'PAINGOD' and then, the other day whilst waiting in a doctor's office, I finished reading it for a second time with a maniacal grin on my face that likely alarmed those around me...•Mr Ellison, in his curmudgeonly wisecracking snarl, exemplifies the strain of sci fi/speculative fiction I love best--short tightly written stories that take a wacky idea like the absurdity of punctuality ('Repent, Harlequin!') or the possibility of a manhating machine ('I Have No Mouth...') and carry the concept to its logical fantastical conclusion.
First, understand that I downgraded this book due to the eBook quality--which is poor, at best.
I had seen interviews with him and had only read "Repent, Harlequin," which is included here, but this is the first sustained collection of his writing I had sit down to read.
Dick essence to him--som wonderful ideas, but poor execution--bland summary, expositionary dialogue, little sense of character--characteristics, but little more.
A (probably necessary) deflation of my admiration.And Harlan's repeated introductions, including the culminating THREE that have evidently collected over the years of this collection, just get skippable.
I remember furtively reading this paperback in class, the book on my lap, concealed by my desk, then taking it along on a fieldtrip to, of all places, the Field Museum in Chicago, reading it on the bus while the other students sang about "bottles of beer on the wall." Presumably, this was for Introductory Biology during the first year of high school. I was particularly impressed by "Repent Harlequin!" because it was so wierd. The "New Wave" was just striking the banks of my consciousness.
They are content that they finally have found someone who "understands the job".This story strongly relates to the preface, where the author talks about how much pain there is in the world, yet also beauty.
The High point of the story comes at the end: The ticktock man himself seems to be three minutes late for his job ;-)The CrackpotsIn this story, a group of people from a civilization ruling the galaxy, the Kyben, has the job of watching over the allegedly insane rest of society that is banished on their home world.
Det kan nog bäst visas med skillnaderna mellan två av novellerna som finns med i denna samling (utgiven 1969, vill jag minnas) - "Bright Eyes" och "Wanted In Surgery".
Det händer väl inte mycket egentligen men Ellison målar upp ett blekt landskap där människolik dämt upp floder och blödande fåglar flyger i flockar över himlen.
"Wanted in Surgery" är däremot en slags paranoid, foliehatt historia som man ibland kan tro att Ellison satt och fradgade då han skrev.
Om man redan gillar Ellison kan det vara värt att pröva denna men jag skulle inte börja här.
Eight short stories from Ellison. I got this collection because it included “‘Repent, Harlequin!’ Said the Ticktockman.” And it was great. I think Paingod and Deeper Than The Darkness are the other stand-outs for me, but all of the 8 stories here were really wonderful.Highly recommended to Fantasy/Science Fiction lovers.
Another fine collection. It's difficult to find a substandard Ellison tale.
aggiornamento vecchio libro letto chissà quando
All of Harlan Ellison's collections are worth reading but each may have a story or two that will leave you cold.
The title story "Paingod" is about the being who sends pain to all the creatures of the universe, and his temporary co-habitation of an Earth artist.
Ellison also explores the pain of a surgeon who has been replaced by machinery ("Wanted in Surgery"); the pain of being the only rebel in a rigid society (" 'Repent, Harlequin!' Said the Ticktockman"); the pain of being the last of your kind on a dying planet ("Bright Eyes").
I'm not sure I'd recommend this collection to readers new to Ellison, but I do think it's a worthwhile read.Quotes"I know that pain is the most important thing in the universes.
In 150 odd pages Ellison conjoures a number of worlds and characters, and takes the reader on journeys and adventures that will stick in your mind like splinters giving you cause to think more carefully about events and situations you may have idly brushed off before.Despite Repent, Harlequin, Said the Ticktockman being generally considered as one of his finest works, my personal favourite in this collection was The Crackpots, a story that looks at the line between sanity and madness and asks "So which side am I on really?".
The stories in this collection were originally published in magazines between 1956 and 1965.
The other reason is that Ellison has an uncanny vision of the future which does not easily get outdated by the events of a few decades.The stories contain lots of new ideas and the author uses the flexibility of the SF format to good effect.This highlight must of course be "Repent, Harlequin!" said the Ticktockman which tells of a world rigidly controlled with everyone forced to conduct their affairs to maximise the efficiency of society.
They range from the sorrowful "Bright Eyes" to the wryly funny story "The Crackpots".

Can you ever read enough Harlan Ellison?
I would say no, which is unfortunate, since at some point i'll have read it all, and there will be no more, and lo will i suffer greatly.
I've reviewed Ellison before, and I can't think of anything off the top of my head that i need to add to what i've already said about his prose style, so i'll simply repeat, this is a classic-era master of the short story, and this volume is a fantastic representation of his work, and you ought to read it.
Now go forth, obey me, read it.
Some of the work is written in a fairly melodramatic and overly expository style, but Ellison's conceits are always interesting and involving. "Bright Eyes" is a highlight. "Paingod" is probably the other best-written story. "'Repent, Harlequin!' said the Ticktockman" didn't grab me as much as its reputation suggested it would, because I couldn't really decide whether to treat it as purely tongue-in-cheek or not. "Wanted in Surgery" is a bit too didactic but periodically quite powerful. As for the rest, I leave it to you to decide...
A master of the short story, Harlan Ellison manages to condense more feelings and and raw emotion in a handful of pages than some authors can do in thousands. Unpolished, straight to the point, scary, and yet somehow oddly compelling, this collection amuses, entertains and provides ample food for thought. My personal favourite was 'The Crackpots', narrating one man's descent into calculated madness. 'Repent, Harlequin, said the Tick-Tock-Man' was also a very good one.
A solid collection of storiesThe tagline of this book is that all the short stories contained in this collection deals some way with pain. Now I don't know about that, a couple of these don't seem to be about that at all, but these are all pretty solid stories. I wouldn't say they are this author's best, but they're certainly good in their own right, and will do to pass the time.
This book contains the greatest short story I have ever read, but the rest of the stories in here were too bizarre for me to find interest. Ellison, for me, is hit or miss. He certainly isn't for everyone but one should at least TRY to read 'Repent Harlequin, Said the Ticktockman'As one who fancies himself as a writer, Ellison is one of my biggest inspirations due to his incredibly original style.
As I've said elsewhere, I've been reacquainting myself with Ellison after loving his work in high school, and this is one of the stops along the way. If you haven't read any Ellison this would be a good place to start as it includes some of his classics like "Repent Harlequin Said the Ticktockman" and some early stories like "Deeper Than the Darkness", one of my personal favorites. I might have to save up enough money to get the fifty-year retrospective of his work.
Harlan Ellison is a master of the sublime and sci-fi. I have always loved his short story collections. This is a bit different from his usual, but I am giving it four stars for the inclusion of the story "The Crackpots," which I really enjoyed. I found this story to be thouroughly entertaining and interesting. I would recommend this book for that reason, especially if you like unique dystopian or utopian writing.
I'm giving this 3/5 stars, simply because some of the stories were quite good, but a few were sub-par. I got the sense that some of those sub-par stories were from some of Ellison's earlier work based on style and some of the content, but I've not verified that. Worth a read if you're an Ellison fan, possibly not if you're lukewarm at best toward him.
Disturbing, poignant, thought-provoking - all terms to describe these intense stories about pain, struggle and courage. All except "Repent, Harlequin!" were new to me and I found some new Ellison favorites in The Discarded, Bright Eyes and Wanted in Surgery.
Bright Eyes, the Discarded and Wanted in Surgery are as good as the title story and nearly as good as the classic 'Repent Harlequin! said the Ticktockman'. The other 3 stories are very strong as well, and this is one of Ellison's classics."
From 1965, this is one of the stronger Ellison story collections. "Repent, Harlequin" is brilliant, with "The Crackpots," a sort of off-kilter "Atlas Shrugged" but in 40 pages, isn't far behind. The rest is fair to good.
Title comes from a bet Ellison had with a friend to see who could get the most metal bands to name themselves after a book.
I'd say there were four strong stories, one weak one, and three middling ones. And when I say strong, there are few who write as strongly as Harlan Ellison, ever.
