https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112874.These_High_Green_Hills
I worked for years in a situation where I spent hours in driving so I often I listened to books on tape or CD.
I mentioned before that I was surprised that I got into these books.
I have noted that most of the reviewers of these are women (no surprise).
Yes they are Christian in content, but they don't get preachy.
Yes we do follow Father Tim and his (new) wife and his shaggy dog, but they don't slump into soap opera.
There are works of Christian fiction that happen to be very good books.Then there are very good books that happen to be Christian fiction.
Lovely, as always! I have never been disappointed by Jan Karon!
Jan Karon is such a great author.The third novel in the Mitford Series was no exception.I am so glad that Father Tim is now married! You can feel his happiness. Cynthia is perfect for them. They really love each other.Father Tim had many adventures, and some were sad, but some were heartwarming.Great read for anyone who loves Mitford!
I'm going to write the same thing for the entire series.
Many find the series feel good, and there are some sparkles of true conflict here and there, but mostly it's about the mundane daily plight of a vicar who finds love later in life and saves people - emotionally and physically.
If you like the first in the series, keep reading because you will be comforted by the characters and will want to see who is added to the "family." This reads like it was made for a TV series, which I am surprised it has not been made into for PBS yet!What I like about this series is that it doesn't try to be anything it is not; that in itself makes it charming, and if you want to read a simple, feel good, clean series, then this is it.
After I finish each volume, I am so eager to begin the next one.
Karon's eclectic Mitford characters have definitely captured my attention and I realize that I am seriously invested in what becomes of them.
Another fresh character is Scott Murphy; the history of why he comes to Mitford is telling and especial, a definite asset to this North Carolina community.
There continues to be such growth with this character as her struggles to put his former piteous ways behind him and parade the skills that he is obtaining in private school.
Nice third book in a series. Really gets to the heart of being a minister including dealing with troubled people 24/7. You feel like you’re part of Mitford, the little hilly town where this book takes place. He finally marries Cynthia, who is a lively jovial person. He is awestruck that he’s 61 and getting married for the first time and really cherishes her so sweetly. You can really feel the love. These books are well done and make me chuckle which is rare.
In these days of political craziness and insanity, a trip back to Mitford will at least let you slip into the kind and clam world of small town America.
His new wife is changing his world as well as his little boy, but life is good, his faith is reassuring, and it reminds us that the way our country is right now in reality is a far cry from the way it needs to be and should be and has been in the past.
If find yourself wanting to read something other than the news, take a trip back to Mitford.
In the middle of reading, I thought perhaps this was only 4 stars.
In the span of the Mitford series, clearly this book is a hinge.
One particular plot point (view spoiler)[the ingathering or reclaiming, one by one, of Dooley's siblings (hide spoiler)] is set into motion here.
I have pondered why the book is titled These High Green Hills.
New marriage, new school for Dooley, new computer, new babies, new construction , new friendships.
Doesn't it involve body, soul, mind — all?I am pleased to know I can read through this series at least once more in my life (given the time).
I loved this book!! Great story!! Starting to like this author's books!! Can't wait to read the next book in the series!!
You'll not find arresting intrigue, high drama, or pulse-quickening action in the pages of a Mitford Years book.
But that's not to say you won't find something of value.What you'll find in Mitford is a loveable town with endearing characters.
These characters feel like ordinary people--people you'd meet in a real-life small town.
And hopefully we grow a little bit with them as they learn lessons from every day life.So, if you find you need a break from whatever larger-than-life drama you might be reading and want a quiet escape to clear your mind and take a deep breath before plunging back into murder, mystery, or mayhem -- look no farther than Mitford.
In this book, the pastor begins to have increasing concerns for a small area outside of town called “the creek”, where poverty, drugs and violence prevail; pastor Tim feels that he is not doing enough to reach those who live at “the Creek”, although he and his wife are raising a young boy from there, he has found a home for another child, and formed a relationship with Homeless Hobbs, who lives in a shack and serves soup to the others living along the creek.
I am looking forward to learning more about his efforts to reach the people living in "the creek" community in the next book.
In this book, Father Tim is married to Cynthia at last.
She is moving into his home and now he has to learn about sharing space with her.Dooley reaches a very hard decision regarding his life's journey.
Father Tim has grown to love Dooley as though he were his own son.
Father Tim and his secretary Emma are introduced to the world of computers.
In this book we will meet new characters, or as I call them friends.
But, Father Tim to the rescue.If you're still into the series you have to go on to #4 "Out to Canaan".
I love Father Tim and all his cohorts there on Mitford. I find myself loving his parishioners like they are from my own congregation, mourning when they mourn, and feeling joy for those that have triumphed! Great read.
Excellent. Enjoyed each moment of this story. After I read these books the first time, we went to North Carolina for a sabbatical. So many years later we've just planned a return trip to the Asheville area—right as I'm rereading the books. Not a coincidence:)
This is such a heart warming series. It's like a nice long visit with old friends.
I can’t get enough of these audiobooks! I’ve listened to the first three straight in a row. The story line is Magnifique. The characters are truly that, they are characters!And the narrator was the perfect choice. John McDonough captures each of these wonderful people beautifully.Other than Harry Potter I don’t think any book has ever made me cry as much ~ sometimes they are tears of joy and sometimes not. But don’t worry there is so so so much to laugh at. As I said there are some real characters.
LOVE this series.
Pure nourishment for the soul are these Mitford books. I am on my third reading and they are as fresh and wonderful as ever. Mitford is one fictional place I would love to live.
True feel-good bookBut very Christian while doing so:) I didn't mind skipping all that though, as the characters are well written and pretty believable.
A long series and every book an interesting and relaxing read. Not complex literature, just extremely pleasant times among people all would admire.
Relaxing. Rejuvenating. Real.
4.5 StarsReally, really great! I'm loving this series.

I had a hard time getting into this book.
After that, it finally seemed to get more into the marriage, the interaction in the relationship, of Father Tim and Cynthia, which is what I've been waiting for ever since they met.
I think one of the hardest things for me in this series is that I just don't relate to Father Tim much.
It's hard to care about the book when I don't really care how the main character thinks.
This came down to a POV issue for me.(I received this book as a birthday gift.
-(#3 of the Mitford Series) I wasn’t really into this book when I first started to read it.
Jan does not do a very good job reminding the reader who the characters are.
But as I read more, the book got better.
Dooley is going to a private school paid for by Sadie.
After a rough start, he is doing well.
The reverend and his wife are getting used to being married.
Sadie dies in this one.
Dooley’s mother finds God but then gets burned by her boyfriend.
Dooley is reunited with his younger brother.
Lots going on in Mitford.
I know that a lot of people love Jan Karon...
and this story was okay, as a story.
Father Timothy Kavanaugh sounds like a nice guy; but his ministry is really a textbook recipe for severe clergy burnout.
He's supposed to be a simple country parson...
I know, I know, Mitford is supposed to be a special kind of place...
But after about 150 pages it started to feel like something out of an episode of The Twilight Zone...
and any minute I expected Rod Serling to show up, asking to join Father Kavanaugh's church.
If you love it, that's great...
Sweet, humorous, and believable as always.
And it's always nice to read of people who share your religious tendencies and pray for guidance, safety, and the joy of people just like you do.
Mitford feels like your hometown and the characters like old friends.
Karon skillfully helps us welcome new characters and say goodbye to old friends while still keeping the feel of the Mitford family.
Nice to read such a good, clean book where good and normal things happen to good, decent, normal people who you recognize as being just like your friends or neighbors—or maybe even yourself.
Another restful stay in the town of Mitford. Gotta say, when things are stressful and I feel rather depressed about life, the universe, and everything, there is nothing like a Mitford book to help me unplug.
I enjoyed this story completely. I have just discovered this series. Each one has a wonderful theme of faith and redemption. Father Tim quotes many inspirational songs, verses and other things. That is the main reason I enjoy these books.
I laughed and cried, it was great!
