https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/529701.Side_Effects
Despite the dissonance in the character relationships, what was secret is now in the open, the bad guy is murdered or permanently tortured with guilt, the underdog had his day, the boy found a girl.
Woody Allen is cool.[obligatory part where I say how much I completely adore Mia Farrow until the end of time.]I’m listing below my ranking of favorite to least favorite Woody Allen films.
Then, suddenly, I hit maybe age twenty-four, and I watched Purple Rose of Cairo and got hooked.
Purple Rose of Cairo is a good place to start.
A collection of existential absurdist short stories by Woody Allen. As a fan of Woody Allen the filmmaker, I am quite naturally going to enjoy Woody Allen the writer. There are a few stories that fall short (must be expected in a collection of 17 stories) but there are some absolutely brilliant and imaginatively funny stories/sketches. Look forward to his other books.
Just finished reading Camus's The Outsider and the book was a peqrfect antidote for the intensity and gloom. Wait a minute, Allen has kind of an existential point of view but through comedy. I recommend pairing the two writers.
Yer yer muzip ve absürt, yer yer sıkıcı denemelerden ve öykülerden oluşuyor. Yani güzel olanlar gerçekten güzel, kötü olanlar da gerçekten kötü diyebilirim.
He's the last of a dying breed. Some people celebrate that fact, but I don't. Cozy up with a vodka tonic, wrap yourself in a warm blanket of self-loathing, and dig into this.
Where I came from you had to steal to eat.
At first, I thought my wife had caught me eating between meals and set fire to the house.” Flying in a plane, the objects force him to land on the turnpike, “and I continued the trip on the ground and only got into trouble when the toll collector tried to collect for four wheels, not three.” Other pieces, like the Lunatic’s Tale, issue from deranged speakers: in “Nefarious Times we Live in,” the speaker as a kid wanted to play cello, but ended up shooting at the president.
Tuyệt. Giễu nhại cực kì hay ho.
As much as I love Woody Allen, I always felt his short stories work best when he isn't going for the serious-with-punchline-style, as evidenced in The Kugelmass Episode.
A food critic analyzes a restaurant like it's a film or a piece of literature.The Lunatic's Tale features one of my favorite punchlines: "My first wife was brilliant, but had no sense of humor.
Of the Marx Brothers, she was convinced the amusing one was Zeppo." Retribution is an interesting piece when you consider Woody's love life.
Woody is funny if you dig his sense of humor and he always has good ideas.
Woody Allen is one of my all time favorite movie directors, recently I found out that he had several books of short stories and plays, SIDE EFFECTS is the first I read of his.
Just like his films, his writing is over the top and hilarious.
Side Effects was original because of the way it was done.
Side Effects is definitely the strongest book I have read by him.
Highly recommend if you love comedic writing.
I learned a lot about timing for comedy from this book.
Allen can be too much at times, but you always keep reading.
After watching many of Allen's movies, I was more than pleased to read this humorous collection of ALLEN's short stories . His prose is the same as the dialogue that gushes from the characters mouths in his films!An interesting journey through the absurd mind of such an eccentric nervous genius that enables you to think and laugh at the same time!
Smart? Sure, but just not that funny to me. I was scalded by Allen's apparent hostility and disgust with the whole human race, it just leaks out all over like some caustic material that would require a hazmat team response. Ugh. Rampantly misanthropic.
Let's just say that his neurotic wit made me forgive the prejudice I held against the perversity of marrying your own daughter... even if she's adopted. P.S. I'm currently re-reading this for the 10th time.
Çeviri, kötü çeviri. Yine çeviri.
Woody Allen has me laughing out loud long after I have finished reading. Apparently I even laugh in my sleep after reading him.
Bir zamanlar (yıllar önce) Woody Allen sinemasıyla love/hate ilişki denen şeyi yaşıyordum.
Ve haberim yokken bile hep de şunu düşünürdüm: Her filminde gördüğüm olağanüstü nevrotik karakterlerin, kimisinin naiflik olarak nitelendirdiği uzun histerik monologların, duygusal ilişkilere bakış açısının sapıklığa varan hastalıklı yönlerini keşfederken tüm bunların altında yatan sebebin Allen’ın içten içe ruh hastası bir adam oluşu ihtimali.
Sonraları bunu da öğrendim.Mizah dergisi takip eden birçok kişinin aklına Woody Allen deyince New York’tan, Manhattan’dan, Yahudilikten önce Ersin Karabulut’un gelmesi var bir de.
değil, bağlantı kuruyorum serbest çağrışım yaptığı için, algılar bu yönde sadece.
Reviewing all the three Woody Allen books: Without Feather was a work of genius, 5 star!
A collection of prose in the form of stories, short plays, articles and essays, each giving me a short laugh and never being short of it.
I swiftly jumped to the rest of his works.
If not for anything, read it for- "If the impressionists had been dentists", though it feels so wrong, to not mention alllll the other articles/stories in Book 1.
Collection of short stories and articles.
Both mocking and each of his work chuckle-to-oneself funny!Overall, a four star.
With the exception of Fabrizio's: Criticism and Response (which I read when I was very grumpy and therefore didn't find it amusing), simply brilliant. The unforgettable one-liners and witty remarks on death and its inevitability sort of help you contemplate your own death in a more optimistic way. It's not exactly Without Feathers but it's amazing in its own way. Also, definitely the best book to read if you're suddenly a shut-in
ჯო ალენის შემდეგ საუკეთესოა გვარში. სასჯელი, შეკითხვა პრეზიდენტ ლინკოლნს, ჩემივე აპოლოგია 5/5- ეს ოხერი, სკამი მინდა, ტანკი ხომ არა! - შესჩივლა მამამისს, - კუზის გაჩენის კი არ მეშინია, მაგრამ ფეხებს რომ მაგიდაზე შემოვაწყობ ხოლმე, წამსვე უკან ვვარდები...
Almost each of the about two hundred pages contains at least one passage that made me laugh out loud, which makes things a bit tricky, especially when you read on the trolley and your fellow passengers look at you suspiciously and move to far-away seats.
Then “The Shallowest Man”, which is a great story about death and love.
Finally, “Retribution” is one of the funniest stories about sex I have ever read.What the heck, I am going to round my four and a half star rating up.
This one is not, but it has been so much fun to read it.Four and a half stars.
So Woody makes fun of a lot of things...
He makes a lot of heavy references in light manners such as philosophers (good ol' Marx, Schopenhauer), literary kings (Proust, Flannery), and historical events (Holocaust, European invasions).
I don't really find this a light read despite the fact it's under 250 pages.
You're going to have to use your nogin to get some of his jokes and have some knowledge about his references.
Nevertheless, I enjoy his smart humor and it's a great read to remind ourselves of how absurd life is even when you try to make something out of yourself.
Bu kitabı oxuyanda bir məşhur hüquqçunun məndən intervyu alması yadıma düşdü. Ona da Woody-nin Freud və Tərəvəz (sebze demişdim o vaxt buna görə biabır da eləmişdi məni) danışmışdım. Çox maraqlı günlər idi.
Non-stop anedotes blasted at the listener, because it is read by the authorNeedlemanThe CondemmedCan't be bothered further in listing story titles...3* Without Feathers3* Side EffectsTR Getting EvenTR Mere AnarchyTR Interviews4* Zelig
Một trong những cuốn khó đọc và đáng đọc nhất năm nay.Đời. Ông đạo diễn mình ưa thích thể hiện cái sự ngông, khinh bỉ xã hội lên phim chán rồi nay còn chắp bút cho dăm ba câu chuyện phiếm dở người, càng đọc lại càng thấy thâm ý. Nhưng rốt cuộc cũng chả phải thâm, mà là sự bất mãn, đôi khi còn bất lực. Nhưng thây kệ, cứ cười, mỉa mai phát cho sướng mồm, sướng miệng. Mọi thứ ta lại ngẫm sau.Hay quá.
Allen's rendition of Socrates' Apology was my favorite. A few others that I would rate as 5 stars would be Kugelmass Episode (evoked a feeling similar to Allen's Midnight in Paris), Nefarious times that we live in (about brainwashing cults) Fabrizio's: criticism and response (a gibe at the critics and the different schools of thought) and finally Retribution (a sort Freudian inspired short story). Funny and thought provoking.
draga buduća beato i ostali. dvoumim se između 4 i 5. nije mi lako. neke priče su vrh (kugelmass i čarobni ormar, putovanje - ne kroz vrijeme, ali u gospođu bovary koje završava progonom udžbenika iz španjolskog za početnike, te scena optičke varke sa ženom u krevetu), neke su ipak malo dosadnije i apsurdnije pa sam ubrzala listove. neka vrijeme izvaže i pokaže
(Woody Allen is still a humungous piece of shit, though)
My Dad gave this book to me many years ago. I'm not a big Woody Allen fan but I really enjoyed this book of short stories. It was oddly funny and a little weird, but thoroughly enjoyable to read.
Funny, smart but in some moments a bit annoying.
Tác phẩm gồm các truyện ngắn tuy không sâu sắc lắm nhưng lại gây ra rất nhiều, rất nhiều những cơn co giật cơ hoành hoành tráng đến tận tá tràng. Nếu bạn đang gặp vấn đề tiêu hoá hoặc các vấn đề tâm lý thì nên đi gặp bác sĩ trước để tránh làm cho tình trạng bệnh trở nên trầm trọng, sẽ rất khó để khắc phục hậu quả và hoà nhập cộng đồng sau này. :)_)
Even in the middle of screwball nuttiness, there are sincere moments of muffled tragedy and oddball magical realism (like when a man abandons a psychoanalyst for a magician, who then allows him to enter the plot of Madame Bovary to have an affair).It's classic Woody Allen, as he narrates something just silly enough to make it seem whimsical but sweet enough to keep you involved.
There's never a moment where it seems like Allen is out of his element.
