https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/414824.Staying_On
I presumed, incorrectly, that this book would be about individuals who had come to love India and for this reason didn't want to return to Britain when India was given independence.
The book does also look at the situation of those English who in their souls remained English, but chose not to return to Britain.
I can instead recommend Bhowani Junction if you are looking for a book about Eurasians and Indians at the time of independence.There is humor, but it is mean humor, albeit a critique of social mores.
The intonation used for Indians and Eurasians exaggerates their simple-mindedness drawn by the author's words.Staying On is a stand-alone.
It tells the story of Tusker and Lucy Smalley, an impoverished, retired colonel and his wife, who have stayed on in India after the end of the Raj, and now find themselves the only white people in their locale.
As Tusker's health worsens, Lucy must confront her thoughts about widowhood in independent India.
Thinking of them, I was expecting to find the Smalleys to be unsympathetic characters, but in fact I ended up quite touched by their story.
I really enjoyed Staying On, and I'm now eager to read Scott's earlier works.
It's a small story, but one that has been written to perfectly capture the time, the place and the circumstances of Tusker and Lucy Smalley; here an elderly couple, but previously younger minor characters in Paul Scott's Raj Quartet novels.
And it's really quite funny, but with some sad, tender moments.We meet the Smalleys when they have already been married and living in India for 40+ years, having 'stayed on' after India's independence.
I haven't read the Raj Quartet, but if this is any indication of what the other novels are like, I shall enjoy reading them at some point.
Memo to Kingsley Amis: This is how you write a book about aging that is comic, eccentric, and touching without looking like you’re trying too hard.
Lila, his wife, is a comic villain-like character – the foil against which the other characters bounce off into their stories; she moves the story along.
There is a great deal of color in the book; where I thought Amis failed in his pretentions about Wales, Scott succeeded, subtly weaving together the hotel, the town, its people, behind the story of a marriage.
Scott has told a story about expectations, almosts, and lives with too much regret.
I'm still working my way through the list of Booker winners, and this one is the best I have read for some time. It is a poignant, tragicomic portrait of an ageing couple of British colonial functionaries effectively stranded in an old Indian hill station after "staying on" at independence. It mixes vibrant descriptions and comic set pieces with reflections on the legacy of the Raj and the nature of independent India.
S...O… in India after the Raj are Col Tusker Smalley and his wife Lucy.
It is contrasted with the vulgar, thrusting ambitions of the Indian nouveu riche who pick up the mantle left by the Imperial rulers, aping many of the British ways but failing somewhat in the modesty stakes.
Here in India they are also outsiders, poor post Imperial 'gentry'.
An example of Paul Scott's post Imperial best, with apologies for the length, caught my eye and lives on in my memory:“There really wasn't a single aspect of the nice civilised things in India that didn't reflect something of British influence.
Tusker and Lucy Smalley were minor characters in The Raj Quartet, but unlike most Brits, they stayed on in India after Independence.
After four decades of life together, they’ve built up all kinds of resentments for little foibles and big mistakes, but it turns out that sticking together despite all that is the real stuff of love.If you’ve read the Raj Quartet, then you already know that author Paul Scott is a literary giant on par with Dickens and Dostoevsky, even though he’s not as celebrated as either.
She recalls movingly her struggles to adjust to the strict social hierarchy of the British in India, and the petty rules and humiliations meted out to her by other wives.Lucy is an engaging character because it’s clear she thinks of others whereas Tusker seems only to think of himself.
A Wry SequelIn calling Staying On a sequel, I am not referring primarily to Paul Scott's celebrated  Raj Quartet ; this little postlude is softer in tone, and although sharing some characters, it stands entirely on its own. But it is a sequel to several centuries of British life in India, and to two of those lives in particular: Col. Tusker Smalley and his wife Lucy. The novel opens with Tusker's death in 1972, 25 years after India gained independence. Remaining after others have left, he and L
But it is a sequel to several centuries of British life in India, and to two of those lives in particular: Col. Tusker Smalley and his wife Lucy.
Poor Mr. Bhoolabhoy is one of a number of Indians whose lives were shaped by an almost-feudal relationship with the British Raj; in a sense, they have also been left stranded.
During this short period, whether through Lucy's petty skirmishes with her husband, or her explanations to correspondents both real and imaginary, we are taken back to a vanished age, the colonial India of books from EM Forster's 
This was a good ending to the Raj Quartet. But be warned. The ending is very sad.
6th book read in 2018.Number 483 out of 666 on my all time book list.Interesting look at something I never knew about. Character interactions are great, but inner dialog because a bore.
I'm grateful for everyone's insistence and for the gift because now I, too, have discovered what a warm, touching, yet powerful novel it is.Following India's independence, Tusker, a colonel in the British army, retired.
He and his wife, Lucy, decided to stay in India rather than return to England.
In the present of the novel they struggle with not having enough money, and they struggle with feelings of alienation as they've realized they don't really have a place in the new, emerging India, either.
Now they feel that they were left behind more than having stayed on.
The current plot is intricate and woven together with a back story that has the feel of someone looking back, reflecting, digesting.
Tusker and Lucy are a couple in the final stages in life with all of the baggage and ruts that can come with a long marriage.
Does Lucy miss the British India that she seemingly so hated, the restrictions it placed on her?
Lucy is still open to the possibilities that life presents.
A most curious couple that grew up in one world but must deal daily in a world that operates by very different rules.This was my first by Paul Scott.
Staying On won the Booker Prize but I just don't get why it got the prize instead of any of the books within the The Raj Quartet. it is basically an addendum to that amazing piece of literature. still, a nice addendum.
It won what is still the most prestigious prize for fiction-writing in the UK - then known simply as The Booker Prize, now known as The Man Booker Prize - and the dust jacket of the edition that I have just read is replete with praise from such literary luminaries as poet Philip Larkin.
Instead of returning to Britain, Tusker and his wife Lucy chose to stay on in India.
The story looks at how this transformation affected both the old ruling class, in the form of Tusker and Lucy, and those, such as their devoted servant Ibrahim, who had hitherto been used to a life of subservience.
I ran out of books to read while on holiday in Goa and this was one of the few english titles on a shelf of books left behind by previous guests.
Also reminds me of the Molly Dineen documentary about Hilary Hook returning to England in 1987, 'Home from the Hill'.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Home_Fro....Perhaps if I'd read the novel with higher expectations (eg having read the same author's Raj Quartet or known that this had won the Booker Prize) I might not have enjoyed it so very much.
Set in the early 1970s in a small Indian town that had once been an outpost for British civil servants in the colonial era, it focuses on a retired couple who chose to stay in India after Independence, but continued to live as colonial Brits.
It also features their neighbor, a ridiculous, greedy, caricature of an Indian couple who own an old-fashioned hotel that once catered to Europeans traveling in India.
I wonder if I would have appreciated this account of a dying way of life more had I read the novels that preceded it.
The book gets better and better as it progresses slowly through a week in the life of the two main characters. The characters present various analogies with a bankrupt and weakened Raj. What didn't surprise me was the respect locals still had for their once masters 30 odd years after the Independence. Even now most people of Indian subcontinent speak favorably of the British Raj. I think the main reason is their superior sense of justice. Even if the British were also elitist but their implementation of justice was a lot more even than their predecessors as well as successors.

On this last occasion Ibrahim hands Tusker a letter from management (Mrs Boolabhoy) just before he - Tusker - expires.
The idiosyncrasies of all the characters, from the choleric Tusker to the philosophical Ibrahim and the explosive Mrs Boolabhoy, are treated amusingly, affectionately and with great skill.We also catch up with the Laytons who also resided in Pankot - from the Raj Quartet.
Guy Perron, another major character, had married Sarah Layton - the real hero and heroine of The Raj Quartet.Staying on is wonderful conclusion to Paul Scott's outstanding series, and is a fitting epitaph to British rule in India.
9.0/10
I loved this book, not just because it's about India and the British connection with India.
The way Paul Scott paints his main characters, Tusker and Lucy, shows such sensitivity and such humanity.
The minor characters are well-drawn too, particularly Ibrahim, the servant, always being sacked only to be reinstated a few hours later, the impossible Mrs. Bhoolabhoy and her weak husband, and the Anglo-Indian, Susie.
There's a lot of humour, and Scott manages to convey so many subtleties about the different strands of Indian society and how these "stay ons" from the Raj fit into that with just a few brush strokes.
The characters in question were featured in the Raj Quartet and intersect with the Laytons and the event that took place in Pankot.While the book is more of a short story compared with the main novel, but it in no way has diminished Paul Scott's evocative prose.
but he was only taking me back to the Vicarage" - Lucy SmalleyThe novel also deals with the social changes that took place post independence and the realization that some legacies of colonialism such as the rigid class structure left behind continued to endure albeit in a native form.
And yet by dint of their white skin, by their affiliation to the English tribe, they get away with a comfortable existence miles above that of the average Indian, and definitely better than what they could have managed in old Blighty, where soggy weather and genteel poverty would have largely defined the rest of their inconsequential lives, as indeed it did for the majority that returned in 1947 to the cramped terraces of austerity England.
Having failed within the confines of their cold and crowded island, they went off to the other end of the planet to have another go at it, except that in this particular case, Indian independence leaves the Smalleys high and dry, stranded in an alien civilization for nigh on 25 years, until death comes to claim Tusker one spring morning in 1972.
It is a study of culture and class, and of love and disappointment, seen variously through the eyes of Lucy and Tusker Smalley, their servant Ibrahim, and Mr. Bhoolabhoy, the manager of the hotel from whom the Smalley's rent The Lodge, a cottage annex.
Scott effectively plays with the timeline, starting at the end, then jumping back to the events leading up to Tusker's death, then finally returning to this scene and the time which followed.
I took a certain pleasure in the process of feeling the second approach to this scene, to living through it a second time, now with a greater sense of its context, and then following the tale to its conclusion.
I had read The Raj Quartet by Paul Scott many years ago, so when I saw his book Staying On, I thought I would enjoy it.
I cannot imagine anybody not enjoying it: the novel is so beautifully written and the characters so beautifully drawn.The novel tells the story of Tusker and Lucy Smalley who stayed on in India when most of the British left the country and returned to the UK.
Their financial position allows them to live more comfortably in India than they would in the UK.The book begins and ends with Tusker's death.
I enjoyed the book very much and now plan to re-read The Raj Quartet.
A few mentions of the Laytons link this book with the 'Raj' Quartet.The Smalleys' characters are detailed and their foibles treated sympathetically.
Unfortunately this is not the case for any of the Indian characters; of the three major ones: Mrs Bhoolabhoy, the Smalleys' landlady and Tusker's nemesis, is a grotesque, her and her husband's marriage a vicious version of McGill's seaside postcard couple and Ibrahim a stereotype of every devoted native servant in colonial literature.
The others are barely one-dimensional.Perhaps the author intended his book to be funny; it isn't.
Brilliantly written - funny, heartbreaking and delicate in equal measures. The novel tackles the complex issues of race and class struggles in post-colonial India, as well as the broader question of what it means to be "home". It is easily one of the best books I have come across in my 2016 reading spree.I felt like I was reading a book by Henry James or George Eliot! The novel is a well-deserved Booker Prize winner.
Staying On by Paul Scott is a wonderful little novel, a Booker Prize Winner and, having read Scott’s Raj Quartet, a novel that has changed what I thought of Scott’s writing.Staying On is, in a way, a sequel to the Raj Quartet.
There is some of that present in Staying On, particularly when Lucy looks back at how her life changed when she followed Tusker to India.But, like the style of Staying On, its main themes are a break from the Raj Quartet and are also why it is not entirely a sequel.
Английский всё-таки предполагает "оставание" как процесс, и, наверно, многим британцам тематика книги будет понятна без объяснений - после того, как колония объявила себя независимой, некоторые англичане предпочитают остаться там, где прожили большую, и часто лучшую, часть своей жизни.Считается, что пожилые пары существуют если не душа в душу, то уж точно притёрлись друг к другу и порозень уже существовать точно не могут.
И вроде бы Скотт пытается нам сказать, что надо быть человечнее друг к другу, открытее, потому что если жизнь и кажется короткой, в которой всё надо перепробовать, даже к неудовольствию супруга, то старость всё-таки длинновата.
