https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16064693---2-ponniyin-selvan---the-cyclone
An absolute masterpiece.
This is not a book but a time machine thats transports the reader to the glorious Chola dynasty of South India and offers a front-row seat to an exciting adventure across ancient kingdoms, oceans and forests.
The writing is flawless, the excitement palpable and the cliffhanger intense.
In fact such a magnificent and epochal setting, with context, drama, intrigue and historical authenticity could only be one of a kind.
This translation into English unlocks a huge new world to many like me.
Tributes to the maestro Kalki and the Author in translating this true to the soul.
Can't wait for Book 3!
"அலைகடலும ஓயநதிருகக அகககடல தான பொஙகுவதேன?... " I loved this song by Poonguzhali. Narration about sea journey made me awestruck and decided to experience it at least once in life time. Narrations and examples given for each and every incidents are wonderful. Overall I loved second part more compared to first part. Awaiting to read other three parts.
"அலைகடலும் ஓய்ந்திருக்க அகக்கடல் தான் பொங்குவதேன்?... " I loved this song by Poonguzhali. Narration about sea journey made me awestruck and decided to experience it at least once in life time. Narrations and examples given for each and every incidents are wonderful. Overall I loved second part more compared to first part. Awaiting to read other three parts.
புததகமாக படிககும பொழுதே அடுதது எனன நடககும எனற ஆவலை அடகக முடியவிலலை. விகடனில தொடராக வெளிவநத பொழுது படிததவரகளுககு எபபடி இருநதிருககுமோ எனற எணணததை தவிரகக இயலவிலலை.சில புததகஙகள எபபொழுது முடியும எனறு நினைகக வைககும. ஒரு சில புததகஙகள ஒரு முறை படிககலாம எனறு எணண வைககும. மிக சில புததகஙகளே எததனை முறை படிததாலும அலுககாத வணணம இருககும. பொனனியின செலவன இதில எநத ரகம எனறு அனைவருககுமே தெரியும. இதறகு மேல இநத புததகததை பறறி விமரசனம தேவை அலல எனறு நினைககிறேன. :-)நானகாம முறையாக மூனறாம பாகததை படிகக போகிறேன. :-)
புத்தகமாக படிக்கும் பொழுதே அடுத்து என்ன நடக்கும் என்ற ஆவலை அடக்க முடியவில்லை. விகடனில் தொடராக வெளிவந்த பொழுது படித்தவர்களுக்கு எப்படி இருந்திருக்குமோ என்ற எண்ணத்தை தவிர்க்க இயலவில்லை.சில புத்தகங்கள் எப்பொழுது முடியும் என்று நினைக்க வைக்கும். ஒரு சில புத்தகங்கள் ஒரு முறை படிக்கலாம் என்று எண்ண வைக்கும். மிக சில புத்தகங்களே எத்தனை முறை படித்தாலும் அலுக்காத வண்ணம் இருக்கும். பொன்னியின் செல்வன் இதில் எந்த ரகம் என்று அனைவருக்குமே தெரியும். இதற்கு மேல் இந்த புத்தகத்தை பற்றி விமர்சனம் தேவை அல்ல என்று நினைக்கிறேன். :-)நான்காம் முறையாக மூன்றாம் பாகத்தை படிக்க போகிறேன். :-)
I felt as if I am travelling with Arulmozhi varman in Sri Lanka...
I always believe it is upto the reader to like or dislike any character in the book.
But here, the author takes on the challenge to make you like characters you disliked in the first part and vice versa.Part two of the epic wastes no time to pick up the threads from the last book and bring them together in a colorful manner with the landscape of SriLanka in the background.
Parts of the book almost seems like a tourism brochure for the country describing in details the buddhist statues and the perahara function.
WOW.! What a way to end 2016! Ponniyin Selvan, my first historical fiction book! This is the second book in the series. Such a beautiful story and wonderful characters! Can't wait to read the third book. The translator has done justice to the original writing. However, I believe nothing can equal the original; hence the 4 star rating.
An absolute masterpiece. This is not a book but a time machine thats transports the reader to the glorious Chola dynasty of south India and offers a front-row seat to an exciting adventure across ancient kingdoms, oceans and forests. The writing is flawless, the excitement palpable and the cliffhanger intense. Can't wait for Book 3!
The description of every place and scene is amazing... Coundn't keep the book down.......
Book was initially as slow as the first part and then picked up pace. Gripping and thrilling from that point. Enjoyed it. Cant wait to start the next part.
Very interesting story-line but at some places the author stretches too much... A lot of historical information about Sri Lanka is depicted. A great read.
read hole 5 part love it for the explanation this shows tamilans humanity and way of living
After getting comfortable with the writing style in the first book, you thoroughly enjoy the characters and the story line in this one.
And of-course our headstrong hero Vandhiyathevan with his penchant for finding trouble wherever he goes, no dull moment in the whole story indeed.We get to visit "Lanka" in the 10th century, as war wages on between the Chozha and Sinhala kings, the emerald island is experienced in uncharacteristic peace given the circumstances, courtesy of the benevolence of Ponniyin Selvan of-course.
The plot is furthered by finally getting introduced to the central character of the series.
Ponniyin Selvan Part II (Whirlwind) Suzhal Kaatru is mainly about whether Vandhiyadevan is successful in meeting the Chola Prince Arulmozhivarmar and conveying the message that Kundavai has ordered him to or not!
(I love Arulmozhivarmar character) The parts where Kundavai and Nandini meet , author Kalki elevates the beauty of Tamil language and the conversations between them both is quite entertaining to read.
Arulmozhivarmar is a character to draw inspiration from, and no wonder why he commands such love from Tamil people of that time.
Not as good and riveting as the first volume, this volume is still in the process of setting the stage. We finally get to see Ponniyin Selvar and the characterization doesn't disappoint, even though his qualities like chivalry, strength and sense of honour make him a superhero of sorts. We also get to see further more of our hero's brash escapades. The author could've toned down a bit on the dramatisation of certain events and the descriptions (வரணனை) of the female characters. Overall, a very go
Not as good and riveting as the first volume, this volume is still in the process of setting the stage. We finally get to see Ponniyin Selvar and the characterization doesn't disappoint, even though his qualities like chivalry, strength and sense of honour make him a superhero of sorts. We also get to see further more of our hero's brash escapades. The author could've toned down a bit on the dramatisation of certain events and the descriptions (வர்ணனை) of the female characters. Overall, a very good read, worth your time.
Ponniyin Selvan - Part 2....Book was initially as slow as the first part and then picked up pace.
This part also did not disappoint me.
The narration is awesome and the author took the full responsibility to cherish the readers with the words used.
I just love the second part and it is perfect.
I am addicted to this book of series since it is entertaining.
It is really heartening to realize that the men in the Chozha dynasty stayed together and fought their common enemies.
Arul mozhi and Vandhiyathevan are the characters I admire in each part of this series.
Such a wonderful book. The part 2 is as equal as part 1. Wonderful way of characterization, explains each character with deep insight. It also portrays history of Cholas in a great manner. And the story is getting nicer page by page. Definitely a classic.
Must read book! Salutations to the great author!
Available on KOBOBOOKS
this book is awesome and i feel like i m living in that time. i m forgetting present and my memory goes to that period. my favouite book it is.
Fantastic read through. In this volume (2) only the namesake of the novel is getting introduced. Some mild humour is also written throughout the book.
Poonkuzhali gets the coolest entry for any heroine (or hero) ever!
And the way her character is sketched, you can't help but wonder how progressive Kalki really was.
It is a great introduction - you can almost imagine this becoming a whistle-worthy moment if a movie is ever made.
it pales in comparison to Poonkuzhali's introduction.This book also has one of the most memorable descriptions of a woman's beauty.
The paragraph comparing the appearances of Nandini and Kunthavai is as fresh as it was on the first reading!And the description of the cyclone towards the end, is amazingly done!
Kalki takes us to Sri Lanka for the wonderful second part of the Ponniyin Selvan series.
The adventure unravels at an edge-of-your-seat kind of pace, but the two things I really enjoyed, both in this book as well as the first one, are the depth to which the characters have been developed, and many of their beautifully woven conversations.
The wit and loyalty of Vandhiyathevan, the deviousness of Nandini, the righteousness of Arulmozhi Varman, the strength of Punkuzhali and her hauntingly beautiful love for Arulmozhi are all masterfully developed.
Add to this an intriguing plot, and the inexplicable nostalgia that somehow accompanies historical fiction (for me atleast), this series is already one of my favorites.
Part 2 out of 5 books of Ponniyin Selvan, சுழற காறறு did not fail to make me curious with a lot a of twists and turns this book was also a unputtable down book just like the part 1. First thing, the characteristics of our hero அருளமொழி வரமன was excellent ! A honest son of king who was admired by everyone :). And the introduction of such a character was done in such an unexpected way 😃. Second, The song by பூஙகுழலி was marvellous ❤ The curiosity is cat is eargely waiting for the unexpected journe
Part 2 out of 5 books of Ponniyin Selvan, சுழற் காற்று did not fail to make me curious with a lot a of twists and turns this book was also a unputtable down book just like the part 1.
First thing, the characteristics of our hero அருள்மொழி வர்மன் was excellent !
A honest son of king who was admired by everyone :).
And the introduction of such a character was done in such an unexpected way 😃.
Second, The song by பூங்குழலி was marvellous ❤️ The curiosity is cat is eargely waiting for the unexpected journey and twist and thrills in the upcoming parts 👀
Yesssss! Finally Finished 'Suzhar Kaatru' Part 2 of Ponniyin Selvan. Excellent master piece. Though the book started on a absolutely new character it was a gripping novel. Couldn't keep down the book . And what an unexpected way to introduce the hero of our series அருளமொழி வரமன 😍❤ Wish I was present at that time to have a glance at him 🙄. Although this part is indeed a perfect novel with unexpected twists and raising suspenses ❤. Waiting to start the next book . Fingers Crossed. My favourite cha
Yesssss! Finally Finished 'Suzhar Kaatru' Part 2 of Ponniyin Selvan. Excellent master piece. Though the book started on a absolutely new character it was a gripping novel. Couldn't keep down the book . And what an unexpected way to introduce the hero of our series அருள்மொழி வர்மன் 😍❤️ Wish I was present at that time to have a glance at him 🙄. Although this part is indeed a perfect novel with unexpected twists and raising suspenses ❤️. Waiting to start the next book . Fingers Crossed. My favourite characters in this book are :1. அருள்மொழி வர்மன்2. வந்தியத்தேவன்
A historical romance set in the heyday of a South Indian Chola empire, it's a saga of intrigue and plotting, valour and ardour, love and heroism. With an extensive cast of characters that'll make your head spin, Kalki has woven an intricate but lovely tale that spans all of seven volumes. It took me almost a month to read - and it was extended pleasure.
Ponniyin selvan story is about Sundara chola’s children Rajaraja Chola,Kunthavi,Athitha karigala. It has 5 parts.written by kalkiIn this my favourite is kunthavi. The brave and intelligent woman in this story. And I like vanthiyadevan also. Because i like his travelling, character and everything
Part 2/5 (or Book 2/6) - Suzhar Kaatru: Beautiful journey to era of Chola dynasty, picturesque description of Eezham (present day Sri Lanka), brief on Buddhism and its presence in Eezham, love, adventure... really caught in "suzharkaatru" (cyclone) of this series!
Just freaking amazing! The plot is just superb! The translation is also spot on, doesn't feel like I am reading a translated book at all.
I felt a nice reading. The new characters like poongulali, oomai Rani were nice.
The story gets more and more interesting with every page. The way in which the author describes the narrative feels so real.
