https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116043.Sleeping_Tiger
Anyway, I maybe read it a couple times after that, but there are other Pilcher books that I usually return to as comfort reads, and I last picked it up years ago.It's kind of an odd one because it's about this girl who totally has a father complex and goes off to this island because she thinks she has found her father (who supposedly died before she was born, but she thinks that just maybe he's still alive).
So at the end, when she is in love with the dude who looks just like her father (and her, since I think she's supposed to resemble him too), it still seems like she has a father complex.But it is so charming!
He looks just like her father, who died soon after she was born.
She travels to Spain, lets herself into his home, and come to find out, no, he really isn't her father.
(to the man she had thought was her father!) The book was wholly unbelievable.This had to have been Pilcher's earlier works since the writing is so rudimentary, or was "The Shell Seekers" really that bad?!
I think it's the latter, the experience is always so different than reading a "real" book.
Not that I will stop, the convenience of getting library books that I'd have to travel for can't be beat, but really good books, I'll read sans screen.
Bit of an ick factor for some: there is a 17 year age difference between the 2 leads, and the young lady was only 20 years old.
It didn't bother me a great deal although it did take me a minute to switch gears to George possibly being her father, to her love interest.
The young lady is typical Rosamunde Pilcher: young, innocent, underweight, and bullied and needy.
What a piece of work she was!I loved George, the hero.
The last pages where Selina and George acknowledge their love is very charming and very cinematic, somehow.
A very "light" book. I enjoyed it for what it was. It played out like a modern day kindle novella-- Sweet, but not enough "meat" or development to make it really good. In spite of this, I do enjoy reading Pilcher's shorter books. They are easy escapism and always seem to end on a good note. She is a talented writer that can make you feel relaxed and at ease while reading. If you haven't tried any of her "long" novels, they are excellent. :)
Δεν είναι τόσο ότι είναι κακό μυθιστόρημα, όσο ότι είναι απίστευτα παρωχημένο.
My first impression of the book, was that it was very well written.
I felt sorry for the poor thing, being completely without confidence and saddles with a stuffy, patronising old fiancé who was so obviously wrong for her.
The she goes off in search of the man she believes is her father, and everything goes wrong.
It turns into more of a What I Did On My Vacation essay, than an interesting story.
Hopefully the authors later books will be more interesting.
Goodreads keep putting her in my recommendations, so I'm sure I'll pick up at least a couple more of her books.
Found on my mother's bookcase...I read this book in an hour.
I've read it before, and it's a lovely easy-to-read romance set (as are all Pilcher's books, as far as I know) in a world where people either have large houses or know people who have large houses, where the men are handsome and kind and the women are slender and beautiful (though not always traditionally so).This time, the slender, beautiful (though large-eared) heroine travels to Spain to meet a man who she thinks is her father.
A light read but enjoyable!We first meet Selina when she is trying on wedding dresses, hoping to find the one that her fiance, Rodney, will approve (think: stuffy.
Pretentious.
Snobby...
and you will be able to picture what Rodney is like).However all is not lost, as Selina discovers that her father whom she was told had died in the war, is actually alive and living happily on a small island off the coast of Spain.
and the plot develops from there.Although predictable, this novel was fluffy, escapist, and enjoyable, something that hit me just right during the hectic holiday season!
Another sweet book - not quite as good as the others I have read. I am having a Pilcher/Meltzer time at the beach this year!!!!!I love being retired!!!!! walking, painting, reading, touring!!! What great days!
Rather Mills & Boon, stereotyped characters and generally trite.
Not a favorite of Pilcher by any stretch......a bit disappointed.
I've now read this twice.
The first time the main character, Selina, seemed spoilt and irritating.
This time around, less so.
To me this is the story of how she went searching for something she didn't realise she needed.
Selina needs to discover herself.
Of course, her little adventure causes a certain degree of havoc but at least it opens her eyes.George Dyer was always a very likeable character.
She repeats names in later novels.
I've read three novels of her which involve a character going to Spain and in every one there is someone called Maria.
Relationships; an almost-marriage in England; an escape to Portugal and a discovery of self and self-assurance. An enjoyable, quick read, once; picked it up recently only to realize I had already read it - and that it really did not merit another look. But ... "nice" story. Probably could be made into an enjoyable movie, made better by scenery, color, water, life.
2.5/5I'm not fond of romances or 'chick lit' but thought this was a rather short and sweet read.Pilcher has a delightful way with words, in which she succinctly uses, to describe charming scenes, places, and characters.
Really good little read. A simple but enthralling plot line. I only wish it could have gone on and on.
Ό,τι κι αν γράψει θα μου αρέσει γιατί αγαπώ την ανέμελη γραφή της, παρόλα αυτά μου φαίνεται πως τελείωσε κάπως απότομα το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο.
This is a very short,light read, suitable for when you can't concentrate on much. It's a predictable romance and not in the same class as Pilcher's longer books.
In a general way this really isn’t my genre. But having started to read it there was no way I wouldn’t finish it. The setting and the characters are all beautifully drawn and utterly credible. The story itself is pacy and ends up the only way it could. All in all, I thoroughly enjoyed the book - a great read!
DisappointingThe story lacks credibility, the characters lack depth and the narrative is clumsy.A disappointment after reading The Shell Seekers and September, both of which are well written.
Ngôn tình.Đọc lúc một mình đỡ chán.
A fast read by Rosamunde Pilcher.
For some reason, I just needed a Rosamund Pilcher book. It was very cliché, but I'm glad I read it.
Far fetched story of a young woman searching for her father.
Updating Goodreads. I read all of Rosamunde Pilcher's books years ago, and loved every one!
Always love visiting the places and people created by Rosamunde Pilcher
An ok read of its time. No depth and a bit twee.
Not one of my favorites, but a quick and decent read. Not terribly realistic, but the plot is certainly different.
Great storyI love the simplicity of the story and I do love a happy ending. You could imagine the village and his house so well
A short simple love story.
This is one of Rosamunde Pilcher's small books, but I just love all things Rosamunde Pilcher!
