https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37190.The_Tale_of_Despereaux
The third book introduces a new character named Miggery Sow, a young girl who was abandoned by her father and wants nothing more than to become a princess just like Pea. The fourth and last part of the book is when all of these characters come together for the climax of the story and I have to say that their fate is never predictable.Other characters include: King Phillip (Pea's father-ruler of Dor), a jailer, a cook, and an evil rat in the dungeon named Botticelli.
My daughter's favorite character was Roscuro because you're never totally sure who's side he's going to take.We found the story charming as it reads like a fairy tale.
I was looking for a new bedtime book to read to my children - 2 and 6 at the time.
We like to read a bigger book, one chapter each night - for bedtime stories.
While technically a children's story, I could have read this as an adult before I had kids and loved the book just as much - it is a story that is so beautiful, classic and timeless.
We have read this as a family for bedtime stories 3 times now!!
رمان ماجرای سفر موش کوچولو، و دوستانش، به سیاهچال ترسناک، در قلعه ای پر زرق و برق است، که شاهزاده خانم آنجا زندگی میکند.
OK, so now that I've thought about what I really think about this book, I'm changing my rating from 3 stars to 2 stars.
After hearing a lot good reports about this book, I think I was expecting something different.
I liked the idea of the light versus dark.
I liked the unlikely friendship between the mouse and the princess.
I felt even worse about the constant ear boxing and degredation of Miggery Sow. I didn't go for another princess story without a mom.
I didn't like that the darkness in the story seemed to outweigh the light.
The rat and Miggery Sow chapters were simply unpleasant.
I remember reading books like this or having them read to me as a kid.
It was always a frustrating experience, because I never liked when the author would stop the story in order to go back over something.
Learning, teaching and making sure the kids get it is important, but so is keeping them engaged.
The story itself is only okay.
He just disappears for nearly half the book!
You can't title a book The Tale of Despereaux and not have a Despereaux in it for half the bloody thing!I read this to see if it would be good to read to my niece.
Absolutely enchanting. Full of compassion, sweetness and dreamers, with exquisite word choice and delicate rhythms. The narrator's voice is like a comforting but sharply intelligent grandmother, pushing you to both see and feel with the best of yourself. I started to read this this this morning for work purposes, I finished it because I couldn't put it down.
For a long time I’ve looking for a children’s book that I will flat out love and this book has got to be it!Beautifully told by a narrator that directly speaks to the reader, it has a delicate magic about it that holds the yours attention from start to finish, spellbound by the unfolding story page after page, seize by its peculiar storyline that jumps backwards and forwards into certain events in the tale that leaves you anticipating for what’s going to happen next.Kate DiCamillo’s voice,trimmed with wit and wisdom, is wildly authorative — asking us questions; showing us a thing or two about what is disappointment, grief, prejudice, and forgiveness; sometimes instructing the reader to look up a particular word in the dictionary and pointing us about the consequences of certain actions — while at the same over the top, funny, and confiding yet in a manner that doesn’t feel intrusive, talks down to its reader or break the story’s pace.
3 starsI remember reading this as a child and enjoying it, though I'm sure it wouldn't be as good as when I'd read it at eleven. Therefore, 3 stars seems good enough.
I thought the movie was wonderful, but as I say, I never knew it had been a book first.
So small and yet so full of wonder, so full of hope.And we are reminded of realities: Reader, you must know that an interesting fate (sometimes involving rats, sometimes not) awaits almost everyone, mouse or man, who does not conform.
Despereaux is supposed to eat the glue and pages of the books in the castle library, but instead he discovers that he can read, and he reads a story of a knight who rescues a princess.
Um, I really disliked this book. I read it aloud with my #3 and feel like a bad parent for doing so. Poor Miggery Sow- named after a pig, motherless, traded for next to nothing, abused, and then later described as lazy and fat. Crikey. And then there was the author's penchant for describing things to the "Reader" as an aside. Despereaux actually has a small part considering the continuous horrors of the story: evil rats, fair-weathered parents/siblings, the Queen's death, and the no soup decree. Author, HATED IT.
There were several important themes addressed in the story, yet little emotional attachment to the characters.
There are also examples of compassion as shown by the princess, the cook, and a mouse.One important concept was present throughout the story.
Light is good and darkness is evil.
Even the evil rat wants this light in the form of possessing the princess.
The message is clear, i.e., keep heading for the light.I am glad the author did not end the story with a flip ‘happily ever after’ tone.
Ia menyukai musik, tidak seperti saudara dan saudarinya yang suka menggigit buku tua di kastil, Desperaux malah suka membaca buku, dan ia sangat tertarik pada kecantikan Putri Pea.2.
Ibu Desperaux, yang merasa kecewa karena melahirkan banyak anak tikus membuat kecantikannya.Cerita dalam buku ini bukan berurutan secara kronologis, ada tiga kisah yang terpisah namun ke satu muara.
Desperaux dibawa ke pengadilan tikus kastil dan ia dihukum ke penjara bawah tanah kastil.Pada saat yang berbeda, diceritakan bahwa ada seorang anak perempuan yang sedang menuju kastil.
Impiannya adalah menjadi Putri sebab ia pernah melihat keluarga Raja Philip bersama Ratu dan Putri Pea berjalan-jalan, Migery Sow merasa hal itu hilang dari hidupnya.Di istana, Putri Pea juga merasa kehilangan karena ibunya meninggal.
I was thinking the other day: what would you do if you had a negative (and I mean really negative) opinion on a book but by chance happened to come across its author? What would you tell them if they asked you what you thought about their book?Without the luxury of the internet or reviews or all the other ways we have of expressing a negative opinion on things without having to come into direct contact with their creator, we tend to be more insensitive with our criticism. The medium is the mess
What would you tell them if they asked you what you thought about their book?Without the luxury of the internet or reviews or all the other ways we have of expressing a negative opinion on things without having to come into direct contact with their creator, we tend to be more insensitive with our criticism.
What is the message the medium of criticism conveys?
I understand that criticism is necessary in a world as saturated with works of art as the one we live in, if only for us to be able to timidly navigate through this ever-expanding sea of creativity.
Two words to describe   The Tale of Despereaux  : sweet and heartwarming. In fact, if I were to give it another title, I'd call it A Little Mouse in Shining Armor. ;)  The Tale of Despereaux   is the combined stories of three unique characters. Despereaux Tilling is born small, but with huge ears. He is, however, no ordinary mouse, for he can read, he loves stories and music, and he eventually falls in love with pretty Princess Pea. Chiaroscuro, or Roscuro, is a rat who lives in the dungeon, but
He is, however, no ordinary mouse, for he can read, he loves stories and music, and he eventually falls in love with pretty Princess Pea. Chiaroscuro, or Roscuro, is a rat who lives in the dungeon, but who longs for light, and seeks to thrive in it.
The heartwarming part is in the forgivenesses and sacrifices all around, and the fact that despite the three characters' shared attribute of being the odd man out among their peers, they would eventually find their happiness, and become content.
In fact in just a few minutes I have gone to the living room bookcase and grabbed Alex Haley’s Roots, To Kill a Mockingbird, Fifty Shades of Grey, and the Merriam-Webster Dictionary and they all contain more action concerning tiny mice with large ears named Despereaux then DiCamillo’s book.
The running gag of striking Miggery Sow, (a young girl) in the ear (she ultimately goes deaf—ha?) made me uncomfortable and the ending showdown between mouse-knight and rats was anticlimactic and disappointing on so many levels.On a positive note, my son says he did enjoy it and wants to see the movie, but I feel perhaps he saw how excited I was to read this and didn’t want to disappoint me.
Some children's books are wonderfully odd.
Others are just odd.
The story of Desperaux (a mouse who doesn't just want to be a mouse) is told through the eyes of several different characters.
As the stories weave in an out of each other, they draw closer together until the predictably improbably ending.
The story weaves through adventure and emotion, without ever really connecting the two together.
At times, the writing strains uncomfortably, as if the author was trying to hit a home run, but had to settle for a double.
So she liked it enough to read it again, and she's really enjoying it for the second time.)
I listened to the story on tape--the reading undoubtedly added to my enjoyment and appreciation of it.
Everyone didn't learn a lesson and some people/rats/mice were bad, cowardly, or just plain stupid.
"Everything, as you well know (having lived in this world long enough to have figured out a thing or two for yourself), cannot always be sweetness and light." (pg 183)I really like the narrator.
Or is it (as the soldier said about happiness) something that you might just as well do, since, in the end, it really makes no difference to anyone but you?"), I like that she forces a dictionary on you ("Reader, do you know what the word 'perfidy' means?
I love this book!
I love, love, love this book!
And I'm not a big reader of fantasy/fairy tales But this book: this book I LOVE!I read the first few chapters of this book several times before actually reading it.
I'd see it in the library (where I work) or at home (waiting to be read) or in a teachers classroom and I always felt compelled to re-read the beginning purely for the enjoyment.
I loved the dramatic tone created by the "Dear Reader" moments, I thought the balance of what was said and unsaid was perfect (I felt like hugging Kate DiCamillo after reading this ending to a chapter, "He had expected Cook to kill him.
Reader, you must know that an interesting fate (sometimes involving rats, sometimes not) awaits almost everyone, mouse or man, who does not conform.This is a cute and entertaining story about an undersized mouse with oversized ears who falls in love with a princess.
Although this book is geared toward children, the plot and the writing are sophisticated enough that people of all ages should be able to enjoy it.
I thought it was funny and heartwarming, and I loved the message behind it.
My only complaint is that I thought too much of the book focused on Roscuro and Miggery Sow, while not featuring Despereaux at all.
Overall I thought this book was great and I would definitely recommend it.
"Poveștile sunt lumină."
He was born with his "eyes wide open".
Like the works of the late Roald Dahl and many classic fairy tales, this story includes scenes of parental abandonment and cruelty (Hansel & Gretel, Matilda) and nightmare fantasy (being alone and lost in a maze-like dark dungeon) What is unique is the voice of the narrator.
This is a story meant to be read aloud.
It reminds me of the very best children's librarians whose delightful way of reading a story, and engaging their young listeners in "story hour", have given all of us such fond memories and contributed to our lifelong love of books.
That was my mindset too, even after the librarian had gushed on and on about what a wonderful book it was (did she think I was going to read some LITTLE KIDS' fairytale?).But two years ago, I was waiting backstage during a piano concert, bored out of my mind, when I found The Tale of Despereaux lying on a table.
What I was thinking as I picked it up was something like "Well, it's better than nothing." What I actually found was one of the most beautiful stories I have ever read.
Everyone needs to read this book no matter what their age is because it is absolutely that wonderful of a book.
The story seemed so different from what I expected of a fairy tale setting.
There was a certain level of darkness to this story that was balanced by the happy moments and feelings Despereaux experiences.
This is why I think this book could be read by anyone at any age.Graeme Malcolm was the perfect choice for this audiobook.
It was delightful hearing his accents and different vocal tones.
I'll definitely be happy to hear more narratives from him in the future.
A award winning book about a mouse, a love, a rat, and some soup.
Not many books make me tear up, but when I got to the end of this one... yeah, I did. Mostly because it's a gorgeous ending, and the author note? Priceless. <3 Always one of my childhood favorites!
If somebody had tried to tell me a month ago that one of my favourite books read in 2012 would have a little mouse as its protagonist, I would have laughed.
How do you resist?Anyway, the story itself is so heartwarming, so unassuming and so guileless that I couldn’t help but be swept away by the heroic quest of one of the least heroic characters I have ever come across in my reading career.
Watch the wonder in their eyes as they follow the adventures of one poor mouse who is condemned at birth and who even loses his tail.
Just started this two hours ago for the Bibliothon & finished it in one sitting.
I love it just as much this second time than when my mom read it to me years ago.
I really liked how the author addressed the reader and told some good ethics to the readers.
So when a young reader reads this they are getting a good message told to them along with this adventurous tale.
I overall really liked this & I can't wait to read it to my niece when she gets a bit older so she can understand and love this story too!
Way too dark and depressing for a kids' book, and scared me out of my mind when I was younger.
Lovely, excellent audio. Beautiful, convincing narration. The ending of the story itself seemed a bit abrupt, but I know I would have loved this as a child.
