https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3340680-the-elephant-man-and-other-reminiscences
He just simply hasn't seen anything yet.Despite liking the other essays as well, the one I will remember forever is obviously The Elephant Man. Treves's attitude felt off-putting at first, since he doesn't shy away from constantly poking at Merrick's deformities, calling him "the most disgusting specimen of humanity" he had ever seen and "a perverted object".
He burst into tears when he met the first woman who had ever smiled to him and shaken his hand.There is undoubtedly embellishment in all of Treves's essays, and in The Elephant Man he makes it seem like Merrick was a prison of sorts in the Mile End shop, when in fact Merrick himself proposed the owner that he should be exhibited.
"The Elephant Man and Other Reminisces" (1923) by Sir Frederick Treves is most famous for the title essay and this is indeed a memorable piece.
It was Treves himself who found the terribly disfigured John Merrick living in the most deplorable conditions and being displayed as "The Elephant Man" by an unscrupulous showman.
Many interesting books have since been written about this unfortunate man but the account by Treves remains a moving and powerful work.But this is only the first of twelve chapters, each devoted to a different reminiscence from the Doctor' s career.
ד"ר פרֶדריק טְריווְס מספר על ג'ון מריק, "איש הפיל". ספר מעניין ואנושי. היה מרגש לקרוא כיצד לאחר שהד"ר פרש על מריק את חסותו, עוד אנשים מהחברה הבריטית סייעו לו ותמכו בו.
מריק בילה את רוב שנותיו בכלוב ונוצל עד תום בידי אדם מרושע שהציגו בפני הציבור תמורת תשלום משל היה דוב בקרקס ..
מיותר לציין שמריק האומלל היה יכול לאחל לעצמו את תנאיו של אותו דב...הספר, אותו כתב פרדריק טריווס, אותו רופא שהצילו מציפורניו של אותו אמרגן מרושע, מתמקד בשיקומו על ידי המחבר ובחשיפתו אט אט בפני האצולה הבריטית באותם ימים שהתפעלה מאישיותו העדינה והמסקרנת.
מאחר שהספר ממש קצר אין לו ערך מוסף לעומת הסרט ובמובן הזה מדובר במשחק שאינו שווה כוחות.
מי שראה את הסרט לא ישכחהו במהרה ומי שקרא את הספר...נו, אני מניח שהבנתם את הפואנטה...
ספר קצר ומעניין. הייתי שמחה אם היה יותר פרטים ויותר עומק, מדובר יותר במאמר מאשר ספר.
The London of Frederick Treeves description, though, is none of those things.
To hear him speak of the strength of womenkind as they face the grave uncertainty of the knife, wry tales of mistaken hats and the madding crowd who paraded through his well-kept rooms, it ties you to the very human charges that were his daily life.Yes, The Elephant Man will always be the focus of Treeve's known history, but his was a life of fantastic variation and, fortunately for us, we are offered a small glimpse of it.
In the man's own words, no less!
Sir Frederick Treves (1853-1923) was 'serjeant-surgeon'(sic) to King Edward VII and was apparently a skilled and compassionate physician who gave Joseph Merrick(the Elephant Man)his dignity back and a sense of belonging in his final days.
The account is told in a matter of fact way that becomes quite moving.
The good doctor also wrote novels and in these reminiscences he reminds me of H.P. Lovecraft in the tale of "The Restless Night" and a little bit of P.G. Wodehouse in "A Question Of Hats".
The writing style is a bit dated but pleasantly so and all in all I enjoyed it.
ever since i was a little, iv wanted to read this book. looks like someone photocopied the actual book instead of typing the ebook. the font is small & most words are faded & chunks have evaporated out of random letters, but if you focus your eyes you can read it. for that reason & one story in particular, plus things said in a couple other storys, I give it 4 stars
I read this because of a recent PBS special on the re-creation of the elephant man using his actual bones. Dr. Frederic Treves was quoted in the PBS special. I enjoyed the surgical stories and the way the doctor told the stories of his most memorable patients.
My Fave Version!!!!
Treves tells of the time it took before Merrick realized that, no, he wasn't going to be taken away somewhere else - as he was accustomed to all his life - and that the London Hospital was his home for life.
They range from the tale, "The Idol With Hands of Clay", the story of a doctor who arrogantly thought of himself as a surgeon when he wasn't, with tragic consequences, to "The Old Receiving Room", a tale of a cold, harsh place where patients were received at a great accident hospital in east London.
Eye-opening. Also somewhat sleep-inducing.
