https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28256439-the-hidden-life-of-trees
If you’ve never gazed up at one of the giants you are missing out on one of the earth’s wonders.[I don’t know these people but it was wiser to post their picture than mine because it’s not legal to step over that barrier and get so up close and personal—though after reading this book I’m wondering how the General felt about it.
We’re talking a Jack and the Beanstalk moment here.]Back in the hippie days I knew people who talked to their plants, played classical music for them, and claimed there was a silent scream while trimming them back.
The book reports up-to-date information about the complex, symbiotic networks underlying communication between trees.
Absorbing information about particular tree species, plants, fungi, insects and birds is provided.
Later in the book it is said that plants of the same species often have widely different genetic composition.
Conclusions drawn should more often have been backed up with reference to particular scientific studies.The writing reeks of anthropomorphic expressions.
Each person reading the book will find different points of interest.
I don’t regret reading the book, but its organization, and the author’s way of expressing himself could certainly have been improved.
Destroyers and usurpers, curse them!"Wohlleben's book The Hidden Life of Trees worked the same way for me as the focus changer does for my camera.
At the start of this book I had some severe difficulties accepting that the author would bestow certain qualities on trees that they couldn't possibly have, such as the capacity to feel, know, remember and be happy.
Pick one up, go sit under a tree if you can still find one, read it and look up to a new world.
You can read this for the science or, like me, for how it helped me see.
In this case trees, all around us, the beings who help us breathe.
It will start with trees - you'll notice the wrinkles in their bark, the wounds made by woodpeckers who cleansed them of insects but not without pain.
I also liked entering into a different time consciousness- the time that trees inhabit.
Each year a miniature life with deaths and births.
But oh, how good it is to feel being alive and to make little more life for others.
Tolkien was right. Trees live in the sloooooow lane (imagine healing a skin wound over decades) but what lives they lead! They have incredible social networks, share food, rear children, and care for the ill. Yes, there's some anthropomorphization here, but still...When evolution has figured out how to tell time and talk to one another, you wish the trees could also talk to us and tell their stories. Peter Wohlleben has come pretty close to speaking for them and I will never look at trees the same again.Or Ents.
Q: Trees are very social beings, and they help each other out.
Wood-wide-webs, allowing social interation between trees.
Trees in friendship, feeding, hugging and warning each other.
Forest etiquette...
Only a true lover of all things natural could have come up with such poetic topics to discuss!Q: Planted forests ...
(c)Q: A tree can only be as strong as the forest that surrounds it (c)Q: The trees might be screaming out a dire warning to their colleagues that water levels are running low.
(c)Q: I have learned from this just how powerful a community of trees can be (c)
Peter Wohlleben has written a wonderful little book about trees.
Wohlleben cites evidence of a 400 year-old beech tree that was actually being kept alive by neighboring beech trees!Acacia trees warn other nearby trees of giraffes who are feeding on them.
Then they never reach their potential height as they age.I learned why conifer trees grow needles and are "evergreen", while deciduous trees shed their leaves each fall.
Evergreens grow needles that are shed only once every few years.
They are dropped in the fall to prevent the trees from bending and breaking in a big wind-storm or under a heavy layer of snow.This book was originally written in German and translated into English; the translation is excellent.
The researcher encouraged the planting of more trees in coastal areas, which did, in fact, lead to higher yields for fisheries and oyster growers.----- ----- ----- ----- ----- -----Once upon a time, when I still worked, some no-goodnik lumber company decided to play fast and loose with the language in some ancient deeds and snuck onto a portion of the Allegheny National Forest – or as much as you can sneak while operating very large excavating machinery – and helped themselves to a heaping harvest of very tall, very old timber.
“We read in fairy tales of trees with human faces, trees that can talk, and sometimes walk. This enchanted forest is the kind of place, I feel sure, that Peter Wohlleben inhabits. His deep understanding of the lives of trees, reached through decades of careful observation and study, reveals a world so astonishing that if you read his book, I believe that forests will become magical places for you, too.” ”The electrical impulses that pass through the roots of trees, for example, move at the slow
His deep understanding of the lives of trees, reached through decades of careful observation and study, reveals a world so astonishing that if you read his book, I believe that forests will become magical places for you, too.”
They retain memories that help them through the seasons (not to catalog the wrongs done to them), they have a sense of taste, smell, ‘hearing’ … just not exactly like we do.Many years ago, the first time I went to Maui, when I was in Lahaina I was fascinated with the Banyan trees, their interconnected root system, and their unique appearance.
If you've ever pondered the thought experiment in which a tree falls in an empty forest and the sound of its fall is in limbo, Peter Wohlleben's nonfiction might be for you.
This is a book full of revelations about trees and asks the reader (or in my case, listener) to reevaluate their understanding of the woody sentinels.
The Hidden Life of Trees is a scientific book that attempts to broaden long held perception and enrich our interactions with forest.
I mean, just because I don't love learning about trees doesn't mean that you won't find a lot to like here.
No caso específico de ”A Vida Secreta das Árvores” - o que o livro pretende e, que se comprova, com os mais de 350.000 exemplares vendidos é ser objecto de leitura e divulgação para o maior número de pessoas que têm fascínio pela natureza, que valorizam as árvores e as florestas, e que se preocupam com a preservação dos recursos florestais, incluindo, todos os seres vivos, vegetais e animais, que vivem em simbiose num dos mais dinâmicos ecossistemas terrestres – a tradução ou a edição portuguesa é francamente má.
I was inspired to read this book after reading The Overstory by Richard Powers, to learn more about the science of trees.
Wohlleben manages a forest in Germany and directly addresses some of the misinformation he learned in forestry classes.The tone of the book and its translation is very popular in tone, which made me question the science, but he does seem to cite a lot of literature.
Wohlleben summarizes a lot of the research since the 1997 article in Nature about mycorrhizal fungal networks by Suzanne Simard and others.
After the 4th chapter it turned into a heavy, didactic plant biology/botany book.
I felt like a freshman without enthusiasm, and decided to use the book as a reference.
In the first three sections one can feel the writer`s enthusiasm for the trees.
I liked the part `Final Road to Modernity` where he shares his view on the order in nature and the phylogenetic tree.
He emphasizes how related we all are, coming from the same ancestor.If you have a special interest in learning the lineages, evolution and biology of trees you may enjoy this more.
He teaches readers about the family of life, a subject typically neglected in schools.Evergreen trees have been around for 170 million years, and trees with leaves are 100 million years old.
If the tree can close off the open wound in less than five years, the fungi won’t survive.
Woodpeckers and friendly beetles attack the troublemakers.Forests exist in a state of continuous change, but this is hard for us to see, because trees live much slower than we do.
If a beech lives 400 years, it will drop 1.8 million nuts.On deciduous trees, leaves are solar panels.
but I'm pretty sure those people are in the minority).The only criticism I have of the book is that the author does go off on the pure speculation bus every now and then, leaving the hard science at the station.
Folks who don't read much popular science might assume that everything the author says is fact and end up being slightly misled.(There's also a note by a 'forest scientist' at the end of the book that I think would have worked much better at the beginning...
I laughed at the time but, having now read the book myself, I totally know what she means...
My main problem was with the language, and specifically the frequent use of slang, which detracted from what was supposed to be a readable but serious look at how trees in forests interact.
They are just teeny-weeny mushrooms that grow on the stalks of fallen leaves." I wondered if each teeny-weeny mushroom had an itsy-bitsy elf sitting on it.My other disappointment was that this book was not generally about trees, but about trees in forests in Europe, and to a lesser extent, in North America.
I hope someone may do some work on this and write a readable but unslangy book about it.
In his short poem, "Trees," for which he became known, Joyce Kilmer expressed his wonder and love for these magnificent beings:I think that I shall never seeA poem lovely as a tree.A tree whose hungry mouth is prestAgainst the earth's sweet flowing breast;A tree that looks at God all day,And lifts her leafy arms to pray;A tree that may in Summer wearA nest of robins in her hair;Upon whose bosom snow has lain;Who intimately lives with rain.Poems are made by fools like me,But only God can make a tree.The Hidden Life of Trees: What They Feel, How They Communicate .
A must read! An absolute gem of a book. I might be biaised as I am what people would call a 'tree hugger'. I am sorry I did not come across this book earlier in my life. As someone who last studied ecosystems in the 80's as part of the 'normal' school curriculum, this was truly enlightening.I would recommend buying this book for all budding teenage scientists/biologists out there (and older ones of course). It is a very easy read and packed with invaluable information about our forests.
Just if you might be interested.The communication network of plants and especially trees is highly sophisticated.
In gratitude for this dubious symbiosis, the ants living in the tree defend it against any competitor as soon as they feel a shock or detect it other otherwise.There are still many variants of these symbioses and cooperations.
They can not automatically conclude, they would not speak and feel too.Vielleicht haben die Baumumarmer doch recht.Das Kommunikationsnetzwerk von Pflanzen und insbesondere Bäumen ist hochkomplex.
Und den Babies muss man Feuer unter dem Hintern machen, damit sie in die Gänge kommen.Angenommen, es stellt sich in Zukunft heraus, dass alle Pflanzen Gefühle haben.
Peter Wohlleben is a German conservationist and forester who manages a forest in the Eifel Mountains and has observed the slow-lane growth habits of his beloved trees, the secret underground social network that they share, the diseases and other dangers that threaten their survival--and most importantly, how crucial it is for the survival of all of us to allow forests to reach old-growth status again.
This book was originally published in German in 2015 as Das geheime Leben der Baume and was translated to English by Jane Billinghurst.
Ein sehr aufschlussreiches Sachbuch, dass selbst mir als Forstwirt noch viele neue Erkenntnisse geliefert hat. Lesenswert für jeden, da die Sprache nicht zwischen Fachbegriffen untergeht, zahlreiche "wow" Effekte.
Relembrei o meu gosto de longa data pela flora e comprometi-me comigo própria (mais uma vez - é algo que faço todos os anos mas acabo por nunca cumprir...) a dedicar algum do meu tempo livre a este tema.Ficam alguns parágrafos que fui copiando (porque o livro não é meu, e portanto estava fora de questão sublinhar):“Nas florestas plantadas, o facto de a plantação danificar as raízes de forma permanente, mostra que dificilmente elas se encontram ligadas numa rede, árvores deste tipo comportam-se quase sempre como seres solitários, o que lhes dificulta bastante a vida.”“O ser humano perde com facilidade de vista aquilo que constitui realmente uma idade avançada, já que a silvicultura moderna tem apenas como alvo uma idade máxima de 80 a 120 anos, altura em que as árvores plantadas são cortadas e comercializadas.
Here is rough and minimalistic recapitulation: Trees are social; they have parent-child relationships; they need sleep (and suffer when artificial lights mess up their circadian rhythms); they warn each other when danger is near and protect themselves and each other when attacked; they communicate in collaboration with fungus in a way that can be compared to a "world wide web" though more of a forest-wide web, and, well, in collaboration with fungus; their sap is similar to blood; they don't like getting bitten by beetles or infested by lice...Here is a great Ted Talk by one of the early researchers of tree community behavior https://www.ted.com/talks/suzanne_sim...And here is an article about Wohlleben with a video interview:https://www.theguardian.com/environme...The book is equal parts optimistic and disheartening.
3.5 stars. Interesting stuff. I suspect I'd have gotten more out of this book if I'd read it instead of listening to it.Though I've always loved trees and found them calming, the author's detailed information about different aspects of trees has changed the way I look at them, and I'm unlikely to continue to take them for granted.
Just a few pages into the Hidden Life of Trees by forester Peter Wohlleben, the first thing that strikes anyone who picked the book up believing it would be an antidote to that 'Human---All-too-human' feeling that one gets with having too many human motives and fantasies underpinning the stories one reads, is that it just ISN'T.
After all, Peter Wohlleben uses this strategy with his story-telling chiefly to blur the boundary between humans and plants, which is key to some much needed empathy and an enhanced sense of understanding towards the arboreal world, which in turn keeps conservation well-informed and in the right direction.
If a giraffe starts eating an African acacia, the tree releases a chemical into the air that signals that a threat is at hand.
Other trees "smell" it and produce toxic chemicals.
Insect pests are dealt with differently.
Trees can send out a signal to attract predators of that insect pest.
Trees can care for the stump of a felled tree for centuries by feeding it sugars and other nutrients to keep it alive.
Trees connect with each other through a wide network of soil fungi.
Trees need each other.
Trees are losing their footing and tipping in different directions.
A calm, interesting and accessible book about nature and trees - really quite a delightful read.
I will quote Vonnegut to resume this book: God damn it, you've got to be kind to trees.
Fascinantan osvrt na događaje u prirodi o kojima smo možda nešto i načuli na časovima biologije, ali je zvučalo smešno.Drveće živi.
I ne samo što živi, nego to radi sistematično pravilno, dosledno, uporno i neumorno da bi čovek na sekund pomislio da je taj život trag intelekta, ideje i dubokog smisla.A opet, bilo je potrebno da jedan običan šumarski inženjer zaljubljen u svoj posao i fasciniran očiglednim sedne i napiše štivo koje će taj svet predstaviti i nama zablentanima u prolaznost svakodnevice.Štivo razumljivo postane bestseler.
Razložno, neostrašćeno, stručno i samouvereno u ono što govori.Piše o načinu na koji živi i umire drveće.
Tolkien's Treebeard and the Ents than a supposedly scientific, non fiction analysis of trees and how they communicate with one another, something that I have found both annoyingly frustrating and also really quite insulting to trees, as trees are not humans and humans are not trees and in a book of for the most part scientific facts on trees, the latter should in no way be depicted and described with and by human attributes and qualities, as this diminishes trees in my opinion and makes Peter Wohlleben's discoveries, although I do happen to agree with what he claims and says, potentially questionable and above all imbued with an unscientific hippie tree hugger mentality, that in a non fiction tome of science really should be avoided).
