https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17495.The_Mystery_of_the_Secret_Room
Fatty is now 13 and Bets 9, and Fatty has learnt some new and exciting detective skills (including writing in invisible ink and escaping from a locked room) in the school term, and has plenty of tricks up his sleeve.
This one doesn’t quite fall into the “creative” category as far as solutions go but is the first of the books where Fatty (and the others) begin to use disguises and accents―mostly to play tricks on poor Mr Goon but which help them out in the mystery proper as well.
42 WORD REVIEW:The third book in the series but perhaps the best place to start if new to children’s detective fiction and/or the Five Found-Outers (and dog). Fatty and the others come into their own, outwitting Goon the policeman while solving another mystery.
I always love Enid Blyton ever since my mother introduced me to the famous five, and this series have kept me in my toes and fulfilled my expectation.
Enid Blyton's The Mystery of the Secret Room is the third book in the "5 Find Outers and Dog" series.
I'm reading the series as part of a readathon.
It wasn't the best book of the series so far, certainly it doesn't have the surprising detail in characterisation of The Mystery of the Disappearing Cat. It also takes a while to get going, but it reads very quickly once it does.
Perhaps if this had been a "Barney" mystery, things would have been fleshed out more, but it seems that the 5 Find Outers are more "case" focused, junior versions of Sherlock Holmes, rather than simply children who randomly fall into adventure during their school holidays.
Another exciting mystery to solve for the Find Outers and dog! By chance, they discover a secret, furnished room in a house that is supposedly empty. Someone's up to no good, and it is always Fatty ending up in trouble. These might be real crooks though, a bit hardier than Enid's usual softies, and he begins to wish he'd called Inspector Jenks fist. It all comes right, and the five have solved another mystery! Yay!
HAHAHA! I have been waiting for Fatty to put on disguises! I remember having SO MUCH fun reading about those bits when I read this series for the first time. What. A. Riot! Also, a good mystery overall, although I felt that Fatty was given more importance in this book; he got the lion's share of the writing- not that I am complaining.
One of the most brilliant books in the series and the first one in Fatty's innumerable disguises. More adventures, more puzzles, more Goon! Mysteries are getting more dangerous, but inspector Jenks is always on time to rescue his friends.
First ever book I read on my own. Treasure this!
Not my favorite of Blyton's works, though. The plot and the the story is waay too easy to guess. (but its rather acceptable, since its only 192 pages and its a child's book).Still, worth a shot!
You can't beat a bit of Enid Blyton. I am thoroughly enjoying re-reading The Five Find-Outers series, which were amongst my favourites when I was younger.

So cute!
Bring back childhood memories.
Read this when I was a kid. "The Find-Outers" is such a great phrase.
it was very very exciting and soooooo mysterious and I loved it!😃😍👍🤩
Another enjoyable childhood classic available on Kindle :-)
A little more dangerous story....
Another of Blyton's many mystery stories17 June 2012 After having read the first five of the Famous Five books I decided to try a different one of Blyton's mystery stories, and thus I picked up this one where the group is known as the Five Finder-outers and Dog. Actually I have noticed that Blyton wrote a number of books using different groups of children, which includes the Secret Seven and the Adventurous Four. With the Five Finder-outers, it appears that she wrote fifteen adventures, each of
Another of Blyton's many mystery stories17 June 2012	After having read the first five of the Famous Five books I decided to try a different one of Blyton's mystery stories, and thus I picked up this one where the group is known as the Five Finder-outers and Dog. Actually I have noticed that Blyton wrote a number of books using different groups of children, which includes the Secret Seven and the Adventurous Four.
However the first part of the book has one of the children, Fatty, telling his friends about all the spy books that he read, and then teasing the local police officer, Mr Goon, using the devices that he has learnt, such as disguises and invisible writing.

Not the best in the series but good fun nonetheless.
Fatty is promoted to leader of the group which is OK but I wish he didn't boss the others around so much in the later books!
The series starts off super with all the detectives playing their equal parts in the case but in the later books Larry Pip Daisy and Bets all seem to become Fatty's minions who run around after him with big admiring eyes!
But apart from that the books are good in general.
Though this one is not the best I'd recommend the series as a whole.
After reading the Famous Five, I started looking at other Enid Blyton books. This one grabbed my eye, so I pulled it off the library shelf and decided to read it. This was, again, another fabulous story by Enid Blyton. The plot may be simple but it makes for a easy yet enchanting read. While reading this I was pulled into another world and it made me long to live a life like that. It was a great little book and still one of my favourites in the Find-Outer Series.
Formulaic Blyton with the whole oh there is nothing happening these holidays followed by an event where upon they stumble into a mystery.The whole five vs Good gets pretty tiresome after a while and that whole aspect of the stories is well overplayed.It would have been great to see more character and relationship development rather than the ridiculous contest. I wonder how it would go reworked for today, I think the books would be quite different.
Well, I am almost getting worried that I like such non-intelligent reading. Maybe I am in my second childhood, but I am enjoying the series. It is the first book in the series that does not give out the mystery until the end of the story. Also, things get more risky than in previous books. Other "ingredients" are the same - naïve, adventurous detective for kids, with one grumpy policeman who is not fond of the children, and one kind inspector who always comes to their help.
Akan selalu ada soft spot bagi saya untuk para anggota Pasukan Mau Tahu. Pip, Beth, Larry, Daisy, dan Fatty barangkali yang sudah menemani saya semasa kecil, tetapi mereka masih terus berumur dua belas tahun, sementara saya akan terus bertambah tua. Meski demikian, saya tidak akan pernah melupakan mereka.
Fatty, always enjoyable
Good read.
I didn't love the Five Find-Outers quite as much as the Famous Five, but it was close! A lot of the stories were more interesting to me, but I just didn't like the characters quite as much.
It was a well-written story.
For me I really found it good but it is really easy to guess what happens next. But I still enjoyed reading it .I would give this book 4 and half
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
