https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19793.The_Power_of_Intention
I took this book out from the library and ended up buying a copy of it so I could just have it and refer to it whenever I wanted to. I plan on reading it all over again here soon. It's fabulous! While I haven't read the "The Secret," from what I can gather from the reviews, this is pretty similar and is the "real stuff" without all the marketing fluff.
Dr. Dyer sees intention as an inner awareness "that exists in the universe as an invisible force of energy." In this book he links intention to the creative power of the universe and suggests that it is within each one of us, the power to change the world.
Although I think Wayne Dyer is discounted as a bit of a crackpot by some and he has clearly stretched out one idea and managed to turn it into several books/cds/seminars/manuals, I do find his thoughts helpful and even uplifting. I have to space him out in my reading/listening because he does get monotonous; however, I feel he has overall good intentions (pun intended)and I think I'll continue to be a follower.
I will not need your help, so have a miraculous day.” “Say to yourself, ‘I’m here on purpose, I can accomplish anything I desire, and I do it by being in harmony with the all pervading creative force in the universe.’”“One of the most effective means for transcending ordinary and moving into the realm of extraordinary is saying yes more frequently and eliminating no almost completely.
Dyer shares the amazing science of kindness in The Power of Intention.
It’s also a little drug God decided to pump through our brains when we do things he/she/it likes.
I have always enjoyed Wayne Dyer's stuff even if he isn't sure if God is female or not.... Anyway, as he has gotten older his stuff has become more spiritual. He is definitely centered in a higher being and although he seems to be against organized religion I listen to his stuff knowing who my Source is and am grateful for his outspoken belief in God and reminders of the Power we have within and around us. I listened to it as a book on tape and it was definitely worth it.
I love Dr. Dyer!
His message is inspirational and it's like listening to a loving father when he tells it.
Dr. Dyer is NOTHING like that!
You feel like you're being guided by a loving and caring friend who truly wants you to be your best self and live a life of happiness.
Yes, he does quote from Jesus and the Bible, but not in a you-must-conform-to-my-religion way.
He also quotes from Buddha and Krishna (but not in this book that I recall, in others he has), famous writers and thinkers, etc.
Best book I read in 2017. It changed my mindset .. I will definitely re-read it.
This really helped remind me how I have been behaving around a certain person and that I need to be more high energy than low energy. I really found this book very interesting.
حبيت الكتاب جدا .. وكان له تغير كبير في حياتي بمعنى الكلمة .. الكاتب اسلوبه جد رائع وتفكيرة جميل كتاب يستحق القراأة :)
I like that he points out in no uncertain terms that stress and anxiety don't "attack" us as we've been conditioned by society to believe, but we create those feelings from our own worries and self-doubt.
To me, it just sounded like someone got off on an existential tear one late night, but if that's how some people want to make sense of the world, bully for them.Overall, this book inspired some tremendously insightful and useful feelings in me as I start my business and enter a new phase of my life.
When he says "Intention" I mentally substitute the word "Faith"; then I don't need to learn a whole new terminology. He is really speaking about concepts that have been around for millenium, but has packaged them in a different way.At the same time I was listening to this, I was also listening to "Self-Esteem & Peak Performance" by Jack Canfield & found Canfield's work a lot more solid as something I can use.
كتاب رائع جدا .. يحمل مبادئ جميلة وفعالة في كيفية النظر للحياة والتعامل مع الظروف , وكيفية تقوية النية والعزيمة بتحقيق الأهداف والأماني .. وكيفية تفعيل طاقة الكون مع الذات وتحقيق التكامل كتاب يصنع تاثير في الشخص بصراحة
كتاب لطيف .. يحمسنا انا نتمسك باهدافنا ونحققها .. يعطينا الأمل والقوة إنا نقدر ..
That way, after your unconscious continues to play with the ideas to help you fashion the new you in your dreams, you can awaken the next morning in a very “born again” manner.Perhaps for that reason, it’s also one of those books that might take you six months or more to read, as it’s a form of spiritual medicine perhaps best appreciated in small doses.
Which is not to say you can’t sprint through the book, but it’s been my experience that Dwayne’s books are better for daily tune-ups, served up in small bite size chunks than read end to end in one sitting.
This book is blowing me away.
Although this is partly true, the book uses the term "the power of intention" to refer to God. The book is really about the fact that in life you have a willpower to choose to believe in One God or not (the book doesn't explicitly says that, but you'll read it between the lines), and once you made that choice, you should hand all of your life to God and rely on Him to set the course of your life (tawakkol).
This book is a treasure.
I have read this book three times!
Now I am on the fourth.
I love this book; in fact, it changed my life!
It is all about working with the Holy Spirit, or the Light of Christ--as the author labels it: the Power of Intention.
It's about working on a higher energy level, losing your own ego, and doing what you were intended to do, thereby finding peace and happiness and fulfillment without a huge struggle of massive self-discipline but more of a "let go and let God" effort.
It really made me realize how important it is to keep a positive outlook on life and to be at peace with oneself.
Personally, I do not believe absolutely everything I read word for word, but I do try to keep an open mind, especially when it comes to the opportunity to learn new things, and this book is definitely meant to be read with an open mind.This is among many other Wayne Dyer books which has helped to change my outlook on the way I see the world, in a much more positive way.
It helped me perceive the events in my life, whether negative or positive, from an entirely different perspective.
Don't recall much from this book. But I had this stuff written down:"Every thought you have has an energy that will strengthen or weaken you." "It is only discord acting within your own feelings that will ever deprive you of every good thing that life holds for you.""The genius in you isn't seeking confirmation from others, but quiet space for its ideas to blossom. An uncomplicated life with fewer intrusions tolerated, in a simple setting, allows your creative genius to surface and express itself. The simplicity establishes a link to the power of intention and your genius will flourish."
However if we are continually negative in our thoughts and action then the source will react to the way we are feeling.
Dyer states that we can access the power of intention by using meditation and showing gratitude for what we have, these are two of the ways he mentions there are others in the book.There were parts of this book I felt enraptured by but there were others that were repetitively boring, almost brain-washing it its repetitiveness.
That there is a power greater than us and we can have access to it by the way we live our lives.
He is long winded and takes alot of time to make his point.
One example of Christian thinking is the prayer of St. Francis and says it is a synonym of God. I also like how Dr. Dyer explains the 7 faces of intention.
For example he says "What else can the creator be than Beauty.
Beautiful thoughts build a beautiful soul and Beauty is always present even when others see non Beauty." I wouldn't classify Dr. Dyer as New Age because he is close to the mainstream but he does introduce other religions and likes to quote past religious leaders and authors.
This work was a major influence on my life in that the truthes and principals helped me apply things that I had always known.It helped me focus my life on the application of spiritual truth in practical living. I recomend it highly but advise the reader to keep an open mind and allow the wrriter to lead you slowly to your conclusions. Don't allow what you know keep you from grasping the concepts. Don't jump to conclusions. Just follow the truths.
“Creativity, Kindness, Love, Beauty, Expansion, Unlimited Abundance, and Receptivity”Rate: All the stars in the world.Dr. Wayne W. Dyer has truly changed my perspective on life. This is a book that I will carry on in my mind and heart forever. I will keep re-reading this masterpiece because reading it for once is not enough.
This book has helped me stay centered. The recommendations are at the higher level of my life aspirations but it is presented in a humbling and welcoming manner. I keep this book by my nightstand and reread a few chapters to be inspired. I often to remind myself that through intention anything is possible and there is always another perspective.
كتاب يطرح قوة النية و كيف نجذب الأشياء التي نود أن تتحقق ، و لكن الترجمة ضعيفة.اقتباسات:غير الطريقة التي تنظر بها إلى الأشياء و سوف تتغير بدورها.لو كنت تعاني من الشح أو الكرب ، أو الاكتئاب او غياب مشاعر الحب أو عدم قدرتك على على جذب ما تريده إلى حياتك فيجب أن تنظر بعناية إلى الكيفية التي جذبت بها هذه السلبيات إلى حياتك.لن تستطيع أن تحل أي مشكلة بأن تشتكي منها
This book was awesome to listen to as I walk in the mornings. He has such a great speaking voice and attitude. I know I need to meditate to easy my 'monkey mind'. I am keeping this one on my Ipod for future use!
إن كان بالإمكان أن أسلط ضوء الامتنان على كتاب واحد فقط بلا ظلم أو إجحاف، فكل الامتنان لهذه التحفة السيكولوجية التي أنقذتني من الكثير.
Very inspiring and practical advice from Dr. Wayne Dyer. I bought the audio book of this title so that I can listen to it again and again.
very great book! a lot of repeated ideas, but with different explanations. But I would say definitely worth to re-read this book. I know i can get more after several times of re-reading it!
I found this book to be very empowering.
It's important to have an open mind when learning about the Power of Intention because only by being receptive to this knowledge, you'll be able to put it in practice.
Although it reminds me of other books such as The Power by Rhonda Byrne, I like the fact this author is more specific about how to set things in motion and consistently repeats important phrases and parts of the book, so they better resonate with the reader.
Dyer, I'm inclined to read more of his books, based on this enriching experience.
My take home mantra is: Say your intent when you are in a state of anxiety! It grounds you to be able to think, evaluate and make a decision. The author has given about seven faces of intention. It could suit from an individual to individual. It's a quick, beautiful read!
