https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2052.The_Big_Sleep
It takes a lot of plot to get through Tennessee." She went to the shelves and started looking at the books.
That's all you need to know about sentences, Jack." "I like mine short, but not stuttery.
Because long sentences are a tough chew when you're sporting a busted rib or two." She saw the cruts outside.
Maybe then I can swallow a longer paragraph." I was on my way to head off the cruts when I nearly tripped again over the stack of hardbacks next to the morning papers.
Above all, I love it for its hero, Philip Marlowe, the closest thing to a shining knight in a tarnished, unchivalrous world.But even though I recalled Chandler's metaphors with pleasure, I also tended to disparage them as baroque and excessive.
He doesn't think the guy is really trying.Thus, from the first, the despoliation of L.A., the corruption of big money, and a vision of chivalric romance complicated by sexuality—a vision which encompasses both the urgency and impotence of knight-errantry--reflect Philip Marlowe's character and concerns.
A killing reading!  PAINT IT BLACK  A nice state of affairs when a man has to indulge his vices by proxy. That was the line that hook me when I watched the classic film adaptation, the one produced in 1946, starring Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall.While I loved the whole movie, that scene between Marlowe (Bogart) and the character of General Sternwood (Charles Waldron) at the glasshouse (in the beginning of the story) was what hooked me. It’s a wonderful dialogue, full of vices, smoking and d
Certainly when the bundle of stunning ladies, in those gorgeous 1940’s wardrobes and hairsyles, starting to fill the screen, the hook got me totally.I love Film Noir movies and I love detective novels, so reading Noir Detective novels is like something I should to begin many years ago.Obviously I have watched almost all the relevant Film Noir movies that they were inspired by the same iconic Noir novels, but even so, I want to read those original books, but also many others that they don’t have film adaptation and/or I haven’t watched the movie version.
A modern, noir like detective story, The Big Sleep changed the genre from passive interactions to action packed thrills between the private eye and criminals.
Set in 1930s Los Angeles, then a sleepy town controlled by the mob as much as the police, The Big Sleep is a non stop action thriller.
General Sherwood has hired private eye detective Philip Marlowe to solve the mystery of the whereabouts of his son-in-law Terrance Regan.
A fun book full of crime, the mob, and fast women, The Big Sleep is a fun detective book that held my attention throughout.
The 2011-2012 re-read...A paralyzed millionaire, General Sternwood, hires Los Angeles private eye Philip Marlowe to have a talk with a blackmailer with his hooks in his daughter.
I'd intended on writing down some of the more clever bits but I quickly dropped that idea in favor of letting myself get taken along for the ride.For a lot of today's readers, the plot and Philip Marlowe himself might not seem that original.
Now that I've read a few hundred more detective books since my original reading, I can appreciate how influential Marlowe is as a character.
For this money he got shot at several times, was knocked out by a blow in his head, met quite a few dead people and helped some of them meet their early demise directly and indirectly.
I am not talking about the books only - movies, theatrical plays, radio plays, TV mini-series involving a lonely PI have Philip Marlowe as original source of inspiration.
Chandler's quality of writing still stands well above that of people who came after him.
It kept me on the edge of the seat despite the fact that I read it several times before.
It’s still a crime classic because Philip Marlowe books weren’t about the plot, they were all about the character and the atmosphere.Marlowe is hired by wealthy and dying General Sternwood to see what he can do about illegal gambling debts that his daughter Carmen has incurred.
Everyone that Marlowe deals with assumes that he’s been hired to find Rusty, and the detective is soon caught up in a web of blackmail and several murders.Chandler’s first book is a classic and would help redefine and reinvent the mystery genre.
It's a violent, fast-paced, garter-snapping (the Depression equivalent of bodice-ripping, I imagine) detective thriller, and you could do a lot worse.
Here's my problem: while I understand that the 1930's were a very homophobic and sexist time and that books written during that era are bound to include some stuff that makes me uncomfortable, that doesn't mean I'm going to enjoy reading a book where the hero is homophobic and misogynist.
Philip Marlowe, the hard-boiled detective of The Big Sleep, makes Sam Spade look like a refined gentleman in comparison.
Thank you for your time, Mr. Marlowe, but I'm casting my lot with Mr. Spade.
This is a classic noir novel, yet what elevates it above the ordinary, for me, is that it's also a song about Los Angeles, a place I once called home.
LA presents many surfaces for many people--to see and be seen, to fantasize and be the objects of fantasy.
But Chandler gets at the dark underside of it all in a way that few writers do.
It's a love song, a siren's song, and also a dirge, all rolled into an action-packed detective novel that carries you away in its own fantasies and hard-boiled lamentations.
I love this book the way I love LA--not uncomplicatedly, but fully nonetheless.
Il film è tutto girato in soggettiva, dal punto di vista del narratore e protagonista Marlowe, che si vede solo tre volte, sempre riflesso su uno specchio, a inizio, metà e fine film.Lo leggo, o meglio, l’ho letto, provando tenerezza perché ho sentito Marlowe vicino, un amico, provando ammirazione, perché è meglio di me, ma anche compassione, perché qualcuno lo pesta sempre, e le donne lo tradiscono spesso, perché il Male contro cui lotta è più forte di lui.Il Grande Sonno, la morte, uscì nel 1939, e sette anni dopo giunse adattato sullo schermo, mettendo insieme un trio meraviglia: il regista Howard Hawks, lo sceneggiatore William Faulkner (insieme a Leigh Brackett e Jules Furthman), il protagonista Humphrey Bogart.
4.0 stars. This was the first noir crime fiction book that I ever read and I don't think I could have found a much better place to start. I wasn't sure I was going to enjoy the genre, but decided to test the waters with this classic that introduced the world to the iconic private detective Philip Marlowe. I am very glad I did. This is a fun, fast read and I was immediately sucked in by the superb dialogue, which was both politically incorrect and just slid off the page and into your head.  The
I wasn't sure I was going to enjoy the genre, but decided to test the waters with this classic that introduced the world to the iconic private detective Philip Marlowe.
The plot, while familiar now, is the root for so many of the standard "noir" plot devices that it was a real trip reading them as they were presented as fresh and genre-bending.
This was such a terrific experience that I became an immediate fan of the genre and intend to remain so in the future.
I did try Hammett once but I confess I didn’t much enjoy the experience.
So it was with a slight sense of unease that I set about exploring the world of Philip Marlowe.The first thing that struck me was the language, well the slang really.
The second thing was the attitude and behaviour of the men in this book: even Marlowe comes across as a homophobic misogynist, and he’s probably the only character with any kind of moral compass.
As if that wasn’t enough, everyone (male and female) smokes and drinks hard liquor continuously.
What style!
In The Big Sleep he writes with the economy of biting words that surrounds Philip Marlowe, a detective whose seen the hardbitten world, with the street's lexicon.
But I've read some hardboiled stuff that was boiled down to a tasteless mass.
You've seen the movie, now read the book.
They're similar in style, but the story differs enough to make each quite enjoyable on its own.
The Big Sleep has a twisty, complicated plot and Chandler's writing is good enough that both deserve further reading to give them their due.
This runs counter to Philip Marlowe's otherwise bracing truthfulness.
Though they're not the sole wrongdoers, the relationship they share is viewed with untempered abhorrence.
There will always be characters/narrators discussing and reflecting on the action, but the extent to which that is taken here for purposes of an airtight plot I find annoying and unnecessary.
Philip Marlowe is not an unreliable narrator but he controls the narrative that will be presented to the fictional public.
This is connected to the idea of his underlying belief in "the system," though he often verbally disdains it, he views cops as basically honest, as he sees himself.
But I'm not sure if that's because 1) the cultural gap between now and the time the novels were written.
2) the fact that it was assumed that a reader then should be willing to work a little harder back then.
3) The fact that this was Chandler's first novel.
Like when your old grampa who fought in world war two talks about the Japs and counts things "Eenie Meenie Minie Mo. Catch a Nigger by the toe." He's not being malicious, he was just brought up in a different time.
Reading this now, I see how so many people have been following in Chandler's footsteps.
Chandler's 1939 classic crime novel is the first that featured Phillip Marlowe, the famous private detective who would appear in 7 of Chandler's novels. Humphrey Bogart brought him to life on the silver screen in the 1946 production of The Big Sleep. Even though it was written almost 80 years ago, it's not dated, meaning it has an almost modern feel to it. Good writing almost always equals good novel.
When a dying millionaire needs help, Philip Marlowe answers the call and changes forever the course of crime fiction.
This is the first of Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe novels, featuring a complex plot with twists and turns so sharp that even the author ultimately couldn't figure them out, but so beautifully written that nobody cares.
And at the heart of it all is the man who will become the prototypical P.I. with a code of his own that no mobster, cop, politician or beautiful dame can break.When asked by a cynical prosecutor why he's willing to risk so much for $25.00 per day plus expenses, Marlowe replies, "I don't like it.
★★★☆☆  “I was neat, clean, shaved and sober, and I didn’t care who knew it.”  Yeah, so? What do want a medal or something? Sorry to break it to you, Phil, but for rest of us that’s known as the status quo. Well, maybe not the shaved part, but damn, it’s not yet noon and you’re bragging about being sober? At least I now know who to blame for all those hard drinking, wise cracking PIs which followed. It’s no wonder future authors would attempt to emulate this guy. He’s the very definition of cool,
It all begins when Marlowe is hired by General Sternwood, an elderly paralyzed millionaire, to investigate a blackmailer who’s gotten his hooks into the General’s youngest daughter.
While he doesn’t specifically hire Marlowe to find him, he does sort of leave it unsaid.What follows is a surprisingly twisty tale involving blackmail, pornography, gambling, and multiple murders.
With a cast chock-full of criminals, and two young daughters, “Still in the dangerous twenties” who like to throw around both their bodies and a lot of cash, and enough double and triple cross to give you whiplash, it’s really no wonder why Phil hits the booze so hard.
Boiled down, the detective novel slowly expands to define the parameters of the mystery (what apparently happened) while gradually peeling away layers (revealing what actually happened), until both threads arrive at an end point (the solution).
Which in a way is not too surprising; it is said Chandler cannibalized two earlier short stories in the creation of this work.General Guy Sternwood, retired and rich, infirm and nearing the end of his life, hires private eye Philip Marlowe to put a stop to a blackmail attempt concerning one of his two rambunctious daughters.
Great stuff now.Wow, I am witnessing Chandler find his true voice.
In my mind as I read, Bogart is indelibly Marlowe, and Bacall is forever Vivian, but I see her as light brunette or blonde, not raven as written by Chandler....She took the photo out and stood looking at it, just inside the door.
Trivia: In both this movie and To Have and Have Not, Bacall did all her own singing.Chandler wrote The Big Sleep in 1938 or so, but before the ending of the filming of the movie in 1945, Bogart and Bacall were married...
Everybody is morally deficient in one way or other and there are sure to be psychopaths.
I just love psychopaths - they are the only characters I can relate to.One thing I hate in all crime books when in the rare case hero gets outnumbered or overpowered by villain(s).
My problem is that villains are satisfied in knocking the hero to unconsciousness and then just tying him.
They have killed other characters far less threatening than heroes and yet they are satisfied in captivating him, and in a place where they can easily get help.
“Tall, aren't you?" she said.
"I didn't mean to be."Her eyes rounded.
She was puzzled.
She was thinking.
I could see, even on that short acquaintance, that thinking was always going to be a bother to her.” ― Raymond Chandler, The Big Sleep A masterpiece of flowing words.Marlowe investigates two daughters on the road to Perdition which leads to darker things than expected.There's a lot to say but many others have already said it.
They're right.
It's brilliant.
I prefer the novel but I listened to the audio and Elliot Gould was truly awesome with his voices.
599. The Big Sleep, Raymond ChandlerThe Big Sleep (Philip Marlowe #1), Raymond ChandlerPrivate investigator Philip Marlowe is called to the home of the wealthy and elderly General Sternwood, in the month of October. He wants Marlowe to deal with an attempt by a bookseller named Arthur Geiger to blackmail his wild young daughter, Carmen. She had previously been blackmailed by a man named Joe Brody. Sternwood mentions his other, older daughter Vivian is in a loveless marriage with a man named Rust
Sternwood mentions his other, older daughter Vivian is in a loveless marriage with a man named Rusty Regan, who has disappeared.
...تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هفتم ماه فوریه سال 2003 میلادیعنوان: خواب گران؛ نویسنده: ریموند چندلر؛ مترجم: قاسم هاشمی نژاد؛ تهران، کتاب ایران، 1382؛ در 299 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای پلیسی از نویسندگان امریکایی - ماجراهای فلیپ مالو کتاب 1 - قرن 20 مراوی داستان «فیلیپ مارلو»ی کارآگاه است، ژنرال «استرن وود» او را به خدمت گرفته، تا راز بدهی‌های دختر کوچکترش «کارمِن» را که گویا در قمار بالا آورده، دربیاورد.
It also seems to have been a precursor for some excellent contemporary crime drama.
By that I mean what might have been, but was not, a precursor to something observed ex post.
In this case I’m talking about the somewhat recent convention of melding couples’ names – ones like Brangelina, Benifer, or, while they were still attached, TomKat. Had the scribes of yesteryear been on to the same thing, Bogey and Bacall could have been HumpBac. Along similar lines, Liz Taylor and Richard Burton might have been known to us all as Lizard.
Some might perceive this anachronistic wordplay to have been the sole intent of this post, but I really did like this book, The, uh…, The Big Sleep.)
Reading a hard-boiled detective novel long past the point when I'd already learned lots of things about the hard-boiled detective novel was an interesting experience.
How much of the action took place during the day, for instance—for some reason I'd always assumed Raymond Chandler novels involved a lot of skulking around after midnight.
The Big Sleep was also much, much funnier than I thought it would be, which was obviously a good thing.
Most of all, though, I was surprised—although really, I shouldn't have been—to recognize exactly how much of a debt contemporary authors of detective novels owe to Chandler, the father of them all.
She was small but I could tell she contained multitudes.She held intense action, calculating sleuthing that owed more than a little to hunches and dumb luck than I'd have liked to admit and some tantalising passion that threatened to consume me within her papery arms.She'd finished telling me her tumultuous tale on the long, hot drive back from my office this evening.
I'd have to get that AC fixed...I knew what she wanted.
No, she wanted me to review her; fast and dirty right there on the couch, the vixen.
Why can't these chippies just leave me in peace?I guess peace is too much to ask for a broken down, half-dead bum like me.
The secret was to move fast, before she fixed me with another freezing glance.
So I set out to make up for my un-American pinko commie ways and read a red-blooded American mystery.
In that way he's like Wodehouse, but a dark, serious Wodehouse with only a glimmer of a grim sense of humor.
I think a good deal of my admiration of the detective had to do with watching Chandler's handling of his main character.
The apparent insanity of most of the characters kept things confusing, but also immersed me in the slightly paranoid world in which Marlowe lived.
You never know who's waiting in the dark.
And just when you think you know that person in the dark, you just might not.
'What did it matter where you lay once you were dead?
You were dead, you were sleeping the big sleep, you were not bothered by things like that...You just slept the big sleep, not caring about the nastiness of how you died or where you fell.
Me, I was part of the nastiness now.'So concludes Philip Marlowe at the end of this case.
I didn't see whodunnit until the very end.Fabulous original crime noir novel where no one is ever really innocent and every one has secrets to hide...
Marlowe is an honest-ish , hard boiled gum shoe , fast-off-the-trigger-with-those-wisecracks, who's been around the block a few times.
Fabulous!
The real accomplishments include 1) clever dialogue, 2) some kinda ridiculous but wonderful noir “poetic” description and philosophizing and 3) a great hard-boiled detective, Philip Marlowe.The novel is deservedly renowned, but it may best be known perhaps for a film version with Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall that is almost universally loved in spite of the critical claim of its incoherence.
You’re the second guy I’ve met within hours who seems to think a gat in the hand means a world by the tail.” “I was neat, clean, shaved and sober, and I didn’t care who knew it.”And Marlowe falls for women: “She lowered her lashes until they almost cuddled her cheeks and slowly raised them again, like a theatre curtain.
I'm always interested in reading books by my favorite authors' influences.
Raymond Chandler played a major role in the molding of Stephen King's and Lawrence Block's work.
Chandler's nowhere near as bad as Lovecraft, but this book is dated as fuck.
But, of course, hitting women was all the rage in Chandler's day.
Men who treat women like children and then fuck those same women...
But it inspired some of my favorite writers and is still inspiring authors today so maybe it's worth a read, you know, in case you're one of the few who, like me, hadn't read Chandler.
