https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29975458-good-as-gone
i reviewed this for the L.A. review of books. i will post a link when it runs.it runs NOWhttps://lareviewofbooks.org/article/h...*******************************************i love how generic the cover for this arc is, settling for the most basic description of content on the front and "untitled" inside, before the title was revealed,  but i don't love the nagging suspicion i have that the final title is meant to make you whisper-in-the-blank: "good as gone (girl)…. good as gone (girl)…" this mig
good as gone (girl)…" this might just be the readers' advisor in me bristling over the invocation of Gone Girl as a readalike for every single psychological suspense book published in the past four years, and may not be intentional at all, but i'm getting cynical in my old age, and i can't help but narrow my eyes suspiciously at the world around me.it's a good read, and a full review is coming - i just needed to get that out of my brain and into the world for others to narrow their eyes at.
Good as Gone is the story of Julie, a girl who was kidnapped from her home as a child, and her family.
If you like suspense novels, this one is fast paced and easy to get through.
I liked the shifting of perspectives as I felt it allowed me to get a better glimpse into what everyone was feeling.
I thought the characters were fantastically multi-faceted, and if staying up until 2am reading is any proof of a good book then this one passes that test.
Who should read it?: If you enjoy suspense novels or stories of kidnappings, then I recommend this one for you.
Absolutely hated this book (really ZERO stars). What a jumbled mess. Alternating chapters between a first person narrative by a mother, and then a third person narrative told chronologically backward and then overlycomplicated by a hodge podge of different names for the same character. Some reviews indicate there is a twist at the end but I did not really view it as such; they explain what happened but it felt fairly trite/mundane in my opinion.Very poorly written in my view; I don't understandwhy this is getting any good reviews.
Her husband has no doubts and welcomes back his lost daughter unreservedly.I really liked how this book was set up, kept me guessing, going one way and then another.
The stress on the family, the somewhat neglected younger daughter and her bitterness, all rang true.
Still, I could not understand why the police were not more involved, didn't try to get to the bottom of Julie's story, that struck me as unrealistic.
Though it was suspenseful, I did want to know what was going on and the author did good job maneuvering the reader through the various threads.
Will more than likely read this authors next book.ARC from publisher.
I had heard really good things about this book, but it ended up being a waste of time. I felt no connection to any of the characters, and I didn't feel any connection between the characters themselves. The writing used too many plot devices and ended up really choppy. The way the story was set up re: Julie from the beginning made it hard for me to be invested in her at all. Nothing in this book rang true for me and it ended up falling flat.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/This is a prime example of why quality Goodreads friends are so important. The blurb states . . . .  “Good as Gone will appeal to fans of Gone Girl and The Girl on the Train” Which pretty much causes this sort of reaction by me . . . .  Lucky for me I saw Bonnie’s review instead of that crap.So what’s this one all about??? “The statistics say that most abducted children are taken by people they know; Julie was taken by a stranger. The
“The statistics say that most abducted children are taken by people they know; Julie was taken by a stranger.
The statistics say that most child abductors attempt to lure their victims into a vehicle; Julie was taken from her own bedroom at knifepoint in the middle of the night while my other daughter, Jane, watched from a closet.
And finally, the statistics say that three-quarters of abducted children who are murdered are dead within the first three hours of being taken.
3.5 Stars, rounded up.ARC provided by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
Julie was taken from her home when she was 13 years old.
Eight years later Julie comes back-- 21 years old--she literally shows up on the doorstep.
She doesn't know what else to do with the 21-year-old woman who shows up to replace her missing 13-year-old daughter.
As you might image - adjusting to the happiness of having their daughter home is actually traumatic.
Is Julie even their daughter?
She didn't go much into vivid details of how deeply the family members were emotionally affected from the inconceivable and debilitating shock during their 8 years Julie was gone.
It is the story of a kidnapping of a thirteen year-old girl, Julie from her bedroom in the middle of the night, while her younger sister, Jane witnessed the episode from her closet.
This book is an emotional journey into a mother-daughter relationship faced by tragedy.
The man held the tip of a long, sharp knife to her back.”The story is told through multiple POV’s: the mother, Anna, and daughters Jane and Julie.
Overall, I enjoyed reading this book and look forward to reading more from this author.Many thanks to Amy Gentry, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt and NetGalley for an ARC in exchange for an honest review.
Things are not always as they seem.Tom and Anna's daughter Julie is kidnapped from their home at knifepoint 8 years ago when she was 13 years old.
The author weaves a tale of Anna trying to chase down the truth of what happened to her daughter, where she's been and who is responsible.
The story is told from different points of view as the disappearance is peeled back in layers.Just when you think you know where the author is taking you … you are taken in a completely different direction, one I did not expect.
But, when Julie suddenly reappears, the apparent victim of sexual abuse a trafficking, the family is once more thrown into an unusual tailspin as hope once more contrast with disturbing information about Julie’s sudden return and the truth of how and why she was kidnapped.
For Anna, the only way to reestablish a relationship with Julie and hopefully heal the rift with Jane someday, will be to uncover the grim truth, not matter what that might be.
This is an effective and compelling read, and is a notable debut.
I will definitely read more books by this author.
3.5 starsReview to come.
What did I just read? This novel is all over the place, characters come and go without further explanation, the 'plot twist' is not a plot twist worth reading and the writer didn't make me care about any of the characters. I don't recommend this book at all.
Would have loved to recommend this book as the writer knows her craft, but just finished it and I felt unmoved.
What could have been a taut thriller filled with emotion proved to be a jumpy, choppy, weirdly paced novel.
The writer keeps jumping between the view of the kidnapped girl and the mother and it's hard to keep track.
I've read other novels with different points of view but I followed them easier.
BUT - I finished the whole book, so the deft writing style kept me going.
I promise to read your next book too.
Ohne jede Emotion, unfassbar unglaubwürdig, gezwungen verwirrend konstruiert und schlecht geschrieben. 'Good as Gone' ist definitiv schon jetzt ein heißer Kandidat für den Titel 'schlechtestes Buch 2017'.

I thought this book was going to be basically another version of The Imposter (on Netflix - watch it if you haven't seen it!).
Spoiler alert: it wasn't.
So that was good.
But there were so many other things that just really bugged me.
DNA testing could have resolved the story in about 5 pages.
People answering phone calls from numbers they should have known and saying the wrong things.
Aaarghh!
If I had read a draft of the novel I would have said "no way".
But clearly somebody else said, "sure".
Quick summer read.
She hesitates before waking up her parents and Julie remains missing.
The rest of the book moves at a fast pace between past & present and ultimately Anna (the mother) on the hunt to discover if this is really their missing Julie.
The "Anna" chapters left me on the edge of my seat, always ending on a mini-cliffhanger.
The other chapters, different versions of who the girl that shows up actually is, showing coming to a revelation between the two storylines.
Thank you to Houghton Mifflin Harcourt & Netgalley for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
One of these was a thriller novel, Good as Gone, by Amy Gentry.
The book’s premise, the story of a missing girl, who returns home nearly a decade later, caught my attention.
Kidnapping stories never fail to capture my interest and Good as Gone was no exception.
It is a novel filled with side stories of Mexican drug rings, sexual exploitation, foster homes and organised religion.
Good as Gone was a puzzling and intelligent read, which intrigued me from start to finish.
If you are a fan of domestic thrillers, I encourage you to put this one on your reading list.
Anna's worst nightmare happens one night when her daughter Julie is kidnapped from her own bedroom at knifepoint.
Terrified beyond belief she waits for three hours to come out of her hiding place and alert her parents.
Chances for Julie's survival are slim.
Her parents struggle with maintaining hope that she is alive.
But what motive could this Not-Julie imposter have?
I have started to avoid books that are compared to Gone Girl and Girl on the Train as I am usually woefully disappointed.
This book however I found hard to put down.
The book packs a wallop of a punch right out of the gate but I felt once things got moving we stalled a bit in the middle.This is told from many POVs and it was a bit jarring at times to switch between known characters to unknown, seemingly unrelated people and our MCs. Within the chapters with characters we were unfamiliar with, we are introduced to even more characters that really end up not playing a role in the plot and it created a bit of a jumbled timeline that was difficult to follow.(view spoiler)[This book was basically one giant red herring and I actually really appreciated it in the end.
Quick, captivating read. Emotionally disturbing.
And then eight years after she disappeared, a woman appears at the Whitaker home claiming to be Julie.
Suspicions mount when certain aspects of her story do not appear to ring true.I was really interested in this book for the first 80 or so pages, then it moved into areas which were uncomfortable to read.
Enjoy is hardly the word but I was interested enough, despite the skimming, to keep reading and see how it panned out.
For some reason I never really became invested in these characters.
Her sister sees this and is hiding in a closet.I was perturbed by that as to the reaction of this sister hiding.I accepted it and moved on.Because the chapters flick back and forth it has to be very well timed so not to confuse the reader.
Either I'm easily confused or it wasn't timed enough for the reader to accept the next change on route of the story.I have read many other books similar and didn't have much of a problem.This is of course my own review and my own thoughts, by no means am I saying it wasn't an enjoyable read because it was.It was just hard work to follow.
Well this was a very fast paced book, the story it's very stressing and disturbing at some points , you get confused but the ending ties some of the loose ends you get through the book. Be warned that this book deals with a very delicate issue and it does have some graphic scenes, you will be left satisfied by the ending , all in all a good book albeit a little hard to digest .
I really enjoyed the start of this book and the narrator was great. However the story went way off about halfway through and I struggled with the rest of the book.
The best way to describe this book: it's NOTHING like you expect from the cover. Is it particularly suspenseful? No. Is it a shocking or in-your-face story, as its bright yellow cover might suggest? Not really. But this book IS an emotional, sometimes poetic, totally fascinating glimpse into a mother-daughter relationship wracked by tragedy. Beautifully written & emotionally devastating. Full review to come on CBTB!
Find more reviews on my blog at: https://theblondelikesbooks.wordpress...Good as Gone follows the story of a family whose oldest daughter Julie is kidnapped from their home as a young teenager.
I'd guessed most of the ending pretty quickly, though there was one piece that was revealed that I hadn't figured out, but didn't love as it felt unrealistic, and if part of why I didn't rate the book higher.
(hide spoiler)] Additionally, I didn't love a lot of the characters.
I see a lot of my friends loved this book, so I may just not be the right reader for this sort of story/resolution.3.5 stars
Read the review here  >> It’s been a great month. I’ve read plenty of books and I’ve loved pretty much all of them. Still, Good As Gone has been one of my favorites. This is a short book (less than 300 pages), so of course I read it all in one day. Another psychological thriller, but an unforgettable one.At first, the story seems like one you’ve read many times before. Julie was kidnapped when she was thirteen and she was never found. Eight years later, a woman claiming to be Julie comes
I’ve read plenty of books and I’ve loved pretty much all of them.
This is a short book (less than 300 pages), so of course I read it all in one day.
Eight years later, a woman claiming to be Julie comes home unexpectedly and everyone is so happy to have her back that they don’t actually see that there are holes in her story and Julie might be lying about what happened.I loved how this ended up being totally different from what I expected from the first few pages.
I think this was a great decision and made me love the book even more.
The book begins with the mother's point of view and this was the only POV I enjoyed, or cared, to read.
After that, every other chapter is through the POV of the different identities of this "Julie" and that is where the book gets more complicated than it is truly worth.
Any time a chapter was in Julie's POV I found myself confused trying to keep up with, not just her many identities, but the time line.
All of the chapters in the POV of the various identities of "Julie" were completely unnecessary and a waste of time.
Amazing for a first novel. Read it in one sitting. I didn't know much about the plot or characters before I started, just that "you won't be able to put it down." I think that's the perfect way to begin reading this excellent debut. Just start reading it. No spoilers, no preconceived ideas from reviews. So good.
