https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2333.Farmer_Giles_of_Ham
This is a great little tale full of bravery, heroism and Tolkien’s ever so subtle humour.
This earns him a fierce reputation for heroism; thus, he is rewarded by the King with a rather glamourous sword.
He opts to take a more tactical approach that the strutting knights of the realm:“Well,” said Giles,” if it is you notion to go dragon hunting jingling and dinging like Canterbury Bells it ain’t mine.
The dragon is bound to his service out of a respect for Giles and a fear of his sword.
Trouble strikes when the King of the realm hears of the treasure Giles has taken for himself.
My husband Tim and I listened to this on our trip home from visiting my parents. We have both read this aloud to our children, read it privately and listened to it with Derek Jacobi on audio many, many times. Never gets old. We still laugh at the jokes which are now just plain old friends and we often call our dog Garm. A true 5-Star book with an exceptional audio narration by Derek Jacobi.
Zapravo je ovo, a ne Hobit ili Gospodar prstenova, knjiga kakvu bih očekivala od profesora koji na O
Farmer Giles of Ham is a short story from the master of fantasy fiction J.R.R.Tolkien.
Don’t worry tho, because although it will not amaze you with great battles, it will put a smile on your face with great humourOne nice night a giant went for a walk.
He realized that he turned wrong and decided to go back.Giles the farmer was sleeping when Garn, his dog, called him in the middle of the night.
Garn informed his master that a giant entered his fields and step on his favorite cow.
Bought with the same Christmas book voucher as The Adventures of Tom Bombadil and Smith of Wootton Major. My copy is an extremely shabby piece of bookage now.
Giganti maldestri, un drago sputafuoco, una spada magica, un astuto fattore, un re sprovveduto, un cane parlante, una simpatica giumenta grigia e un inestimabile tesoro: ecco gli ingredienti mescolati magistralmente da Tolkien in questa bella fiaba per bambini.
Posso solo immaginarmi i figli di Tolkien seduti accanto a lui, mentre racconta loro le imprese del Fattore Giles!
Interessante anche l'introduzione a questa edizione che spiega la genesi dell'opera, la cui stesura definitiva richiese all'autore quasi vent'anni!
Molto simpatiche anche le illustrazioni, vere e proprie miniature in stile medievale, che Tolkien stesso definì il completamento perfetto alla sua storia.
Thought I would reread this as when I looked up a Tolkein books for the Pageopoly Challenge I couldn't really remember it.
Farmer Giles is not a pleasant person but much nicer than the other characters so you eventually gravitate to him as he becomes reasonable over time.
It was charming how the farmers dog and mare got to speak their thoughts on matters and the three of them make the story.
PS This is why I love these Goodreads challenges, they enrich your life by getting you to read books that at face value you would otherwise pass by.
Delightful. It has a much more light-hearted tone than The Hobbit or LOTR; I was laughing practically the whole time. It’s not connected with Middle-earth, but I guess it does have some magic since Garn (the dog) can talk (the most common words being “Help! Help!”) and Tailbiter jumps out of its sheath when a dragon is a couple miles away. Good for all ages!
Genauso wenige wissen, dass er ursprünglich eigentlich eher als Kinderbuchautor galt - ein Ruf, den er nur schwer loswurde, ehe er der breiteren Masse durch sein Hauptwerk bekannt geworden war.So ist auch "Bauer Giles von Ham" eines jener Bücher, das nicht nur beinahe nie erschienen wäre, sondern auch nach seinem Erscheinen bald wieder verblasste.
Diese müssen dann aber nicht unbedingt die schärfste Klinge sein, die geführt wird.Wie auch immer: Man erlebt, durch die ganze Geschichte hindurch, Tolkiens Gespür für sehr feinsinnigen Humor.
La storia è quella di, un fortunato più che coraggioso, Ægidius Ahenobarbus Julius Agricola de Hammo che fa una gran carriera grazie alla buona sorte e al cane Garm (non troppo benvoluto ^^’) che lo sprona all’abbisogna.
Inizia affrontando e “sconfiggendo” un gigante con un sol colpo di trombone, da lì partirà una serie di equivoci che lo porteranno faccia a faccia col drago Chrysophylax Dives, armato della leggendaria spada Mordicoda.
Un continuo, ripetitivo, spesso scontato, temporeggiare che a lungo andare ha incoronato l’agricoltore (alla faccia del mugnaio invidioso ed il fabbro pessimista) quale eroe, e non solo, del racconto.
Fiaba breve, perfetta se si hanno un paio d'ore libere in attesa di.Una divertita ironia la pervade e, con la sua critica al potere costituito, è meno banale di quanto non sembri. Deliziose le finte illustrazioni medievali.
Herlig historie fra Tolkien dette. Småmorsom bonde skremmer tilfeldigvis bort en drage, får et sverd og blir en helt. Har ingenting å gjøre med verken Hobbiten eller LotR, men like fengende å lytte til.
Un racconto classico che fa della prosa di Tolkien il suo valore aggiunto. Si tratta di una vicenda tradizionale che coinvolge un drago sputafuoco e l'umano che tenterà di batterlo in astuzia. Si presta alla lettura ad alta voce, anche se letto ad un pubblico piuttosto giovane.Dovessi mettere insieme una piccola biblioteca per giovani lettori, non potrei non includervi questo titolo. [★★★☆ 3.5]
Un cuento ilustrado sobre un granjero y un dragón que me ha hecho recordar a esas viejas historias de cuando era niño. Contiene la magia y la esencia de Tolkien y ya sólo por eso merece la pena ser leido. http://elmarcapaginas-loco.blogspot.c...
Μια μικρή, όμορφη ιστορία! Και για μικρά και για μεγάλα παιδιά! Μεγαλειώδης ο τρόπος που ο Tolkien "πατάει" πάνω σε πραγματικά τοπονύμια, ώστε να μας παρουσιάσει μια μεσαιωνική ιστορία με δράκους και ιππότες! Μια ιστορία, μικρή, αλλά με πολλά πράγματα να πεί...
I absolutely love it! I had so much fun while reading it. This book is very different from everything I've read from Tolkien. I expected battles, blood, dead... like in TLOTR, but I got lots of humour and sarcasm. And I really, really liked it!
Um bacamarte, era isso mesmo? Achei que fossem mutucas!
WARNING: Oh, that's kind of disappointing. This book is really, really tiny. I was expecting it to be the same as its look-a-like edition from the 1970s. This measures about 3.5" x 4.5" by eyeball. Much less than half the size of the original first edition with the same wonderful artwork. Sad Tolkien fan :(
Drekar, tröll, töfrasverð - fantasía fyrir unga lesendur! Krúttleg barnabók sem er eins og "light" útgáfa af Hobbitanum og The Lord of the Rings. Mæli með að foreldrar lesi þessa með börnunum sínum. :)
Βραβείο καλύτερου μικρού βιβλίου 2012 από το aliceinbookworldhttp://aliceinbookworld.blogspot.gr/2...
Schnell verbreitet sich die Kunde über die ruhmreiche Tat des Bauers Giles im ganzen Land, so dass sogar der König davon erfährt und ihm als Geschenk ein Schwert zusendet.
Doch die Ritter des Königs scheinen beschäftigt und zum Unglück des Bauers Giles wird der Ruf nach seinem Heldentum immer lauter… Meine Meinung Das Märchen „Bauer Giles von Ham“ von J.
Die Geschichte von Giles ist also ein rundes Abenteuer mit humorvollen Zügen und bietet gute Unterhaltung für groß und klein!
Aufgrund des großen Erfolges wurde rasch nach einer Fortsetzung verlangt, die mit »Der Herr der Ringe« in den Jahren 1954/1955 erschien.
This is such a charming little tale!Tolkien once said that he wrote his legendarium in an effort to create a British mythology, but honestly, none of his major works like the Lord of the Rings, the Hobbit or even the Silmarillion (my personal favourite!) ever really managed that like Farmer Giles of Ham.It's a rustic, rural, and simple story of a rustic, rural and simple folk.
The Middle Kingdom, with its talking dogs, reasoning mares and the dragons and giants who are slowly fading into legend, abounds with Tolkien's charm, dry humour, and sarcastic wit, which are not apparent in other serious works of his (or at least, not as apparent.)I'm really looking forward to reading the other short tales and discovering their own brand of magic.
This is a short book of short stories by the author of The Hobbit.
I listened to the audio version, read by actor Derek Jacobi.The first story, Farmer Giles was by far the best one--a delightful fairy tale with giants and dragons and an unlikely hero.
Jacobi's reading was perfection in entertainment: interesting voices for each character but also the inflection of every word exactly right, with no dropped endings or rushed phrases as many narrators do while reading.
The other two stories weren't quite well-written as the first, but the reading was just as engaging.
I highly recommend the audio version of this collection.
Başkasından alıp okuyupta bende olmadığı ve basımı da güzel olduğu için alıp tekrardan okudum. Gerçek tarihi ve dildeki değişimleri de yoğurarak ingiltereye tarihsel mitler ve efsaneler kazandırma amacıyla yazılmış yetişkinlere de uygun çocuk kitabı. En azıdan yetişkinler de hikayeyi(her ne kadar gerçek tarihsel öğelere göndermelerden oluşsa da) sevmese bile okurken satır aralarını ve ustalığı fark ederken keyif alabilir.
This is an entertaining, charming tale about a dragon, a dog, a grey mare, an incompetent king, and an unlikely hero.
It's also a giant linguist and medievalist in-joke.That said, the story itself isn’t very deep and none of the characters are nearly as well-developed as those in The Lord of the Rings or The Hobbit – it’s more like Roverandom than either of those two – but it’s a fun read nonetheless.
If you can, try to get the annotated anniversary edition, as it contains notes, an explanatory introduction, and both the first and the published version of the text
It's J.R.R. Tolkien and I adore his writing style and way of crafting a story but I really didn't care for the plot and the characters. I'm sill glad I decided to pick it up for Booktubeathon because it's quite short (although it did take me incredibly long to finish it) and I could use it for the challenges "read a book completely outdoors" and "read a book in one day".
Love it
A Tolkien classic indeed!
an amazing book about a greedy farmer who accidentally became famous for scaring away a giant and is now tasked with defeating a dragon
Plain
