https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31232.The_Rhinemann_Exchange
I read this one ages ago when I was really into thrillers.
Robert Ludlum was probably my favorite author in the genre although this was the only one of his books outside his Bourne trilogy I can remember reading.
The hero was both badass and sympathetic and was reminiscent of Ludum's Jason Bourne in his deadly competency and in his sense of being worn down and made cynical from years of bloody covert warfare.
The setting of this one (Argentina during WW2) and it's general feel were both really well done as well.
Moreover, with all due respect to the memory of Mr. Ludlum (R.I.P.), his technical knowledge of firearms was pathetic (which I elaborate on further in the comments below), and while I love learning new languages, the author's penchant for using foreign language sentences without the benefit of translations for English-speaking readers is a tad annoying.RANDOM STREAM OF CONSCIOUSNESS NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS (and noteworthy passages):--p.
257: A LUGER IS AN AUTOPISTOL, NOT A REVOLVER, SEÑOR LUDLUM (R.I.P.)!!!--p.
358: "David clicked the firing pin of the weapon into hair-release." Fucksake, Ludlum, didya mean "cocked the hammer?"--p.
Oh well, at least the author didn't say "revolver" this time.--p.
This could be attributed to two possible reasons, the first being that I never read enough of it in any one sitting, and left too long in between reads, to really familiarise myself with the characters and allow the story to 'grip' me; the second being that the characters we come to care about rarely feature in the first half.
Even the hero, David Spaulding, the typical super-spy type that Ludlum writes so well (Bourne/Ambler/Janson), doesn't really become the centre of the story until about the mid-point, and it's at this point the book becomes hard to put down.
Standard Ludlum, you know exactly what you get. And he does it well of course, good thriller.

Tako malo fali da bude dobra... ima akcije, ali mi fali tu nešto one Ladlamove energije...
The German rocket plant Peenemunde is in trouble because it's out of industrial grade diamonds to use in their machinery.
The United States are trying to develop gyroscopes that will work with high altitude bombers.
Realizing they can help each other, Germany and the United States develop a clandestine exchange; diamonds for schematics.
David Spaulding is the American agent sent to Argentina to complete the trade, but naturally their are a myriad of complications including an underground organization who will stop at nothing to stop the exchange.Ludlum creates characters you can root for and against and puts them in the middle of a fascinating scenario.
Fast paced, gripping, edge of the seat kind. The story-line takes you on a ride whizzing past twists and turns as you move deeper into the book. And the roller coaster slows down towards the end, letting you dangle over the deep plot that had run in the background throughout, just that it became visible now.

Not one of Ludlum's best novels.
Set in WWII an American agent in Lisbon is suddenly ripped out of his own network and territory for reasons unknown.
David Spaulding is first sent to New York and then Bueno Aires on a mission of deceit.
The problem is much of the deceit is directed towards him.
Slowly and methodically the man from Lisbon unravels the layers of lies to discover the unbelievable and unsavory truth.
There is an unrealistic "love" story in the final third of the book where the agent and an embassy worker fall in love in less than a week.
The Rhineman Exchange is typical Robert Ludlum, and that is not a bad thing. As is true with almost all Ludlum books, there is a deliciously convoluted plot that as a reader you have no chance to fully untangle until Ludlum does it for you in the rush of the last few chapters. The Rhineman exchange is extremely fun reading. The characters are all likable, but somewhat superhuman in their perfection. The truth is the book probably deserves another star, but there is an element about Ludlum's books of If you've read one you've read them all.
If you like Ludlum, you'll definitely enjoy this effort. The plot revolves around a secret agreement between US and German industrialists during the middle of WWII for an exchange of technology and materials needed by the military of both sides....the exchange is necessitated by the inability of the industrialists to meet the needs of their own military....if you like this type of plot, you should enjoy this book.
It's quite clear to me that Robert Ludlum's best work occurred during the 1970s ("The Holcroft Covenant," "The Gemini Contenders" and my personal favorite "The Matarese Circle" just to name a few). This is another winner that ranks right up there with the rest of his stuff. A great, gripping historical fiction thriller where - unlike his later work - the plot thickens as the hero gets chased. Rarely are 446 densely written pages as fun to read as this was.
I enjoyed Ludlum's first three books but this one was a little over my head. I never fully understood the plot before deciding to put it down about half way through. I had to read other reviews just to vaguely understand what the mission was. Also, it seemed as if Ludlum was warming his engine for a little too long. The plot should be explained in the first 30 pages instead of the first 130. I might give this book another shot but it won't be anytime soon.
The Allies need German gyroscopes for their bombers. The Germans need Allied industrial diamonds for their rockets. German industrialist Erich Rhinemann arranges an exchange of goods in Buenos Aires, but someone wants to prevent David Spaulding, the American agent, from showing up. Ludlum at his best.
The plot of this book was reminiscent of a John le Carre novel, but only about 75% as good, with a lot more shooting and running around, and with hints of homophobia, racism, sexism, and ableism thrown in for good measure.
A good read. Almost gave it a four, so it's a 3+++++++
Mine has a different cover/ different ed. Scan it later. Read it sometime? to re-read again.
One of a very few attempts to show the Haganah in genuine equal espionage and sabotage, political power struggles with the major powers -fighters for a Jewish Free State to be established as compensation against the holocaust events perpetrated upon Jews of Europe.A cultured romance of genteel sophistication informs the final third of the book evincing couterpoint questui s between service above and beyond against personal sacrifices.Some excellent history, at times immensely engaging with evocative features of a travelogue.
Descriptions of period Argentina excel.The point and purpose of the tale involves expisure of hidden armaments and industrial deals between the Reich and the Allied powers when preparing for Operation Overlord, which would have taken place at the time.
I usually love Ludlum's writing but found this book to be unusually hard to follow.
The writing was good but storyline very mixed up and the main character, David Spaulding, seemed very frenetic and erratic.
Spaulding is called back from his work in Portugal to foster an exchange between the US and Germany of diamonds for a gyroscope design to take place in Argentina.
Along the way several people are killed, betrayals occur, and Spaulding falls in love with a woman from the US Embassy based in Buenos Aires.
Only recommend this for diehard Ludlum fans - definitely not his usual quality of work though!
Actually quite an entertaining book but the main premise just frustrated me so much that I couldn't look past it. Essentially, the nazis and the Americans are trading materials and information that would help their enemies in their war aims. It just made no sense, and annoyed me throughout. Apart from that, alright.
A good airport read. Standard Ludlum thriller. Nothing out of the box!
It's Ludlum. A good spy-thriller, if you like those you will like this.
A classic Ludlum. Engrosses you till the last page.
La trama di questo romanzo: alla vigilia della seconda guerra mondiale, David Spaulding, un presentatore radiofonico, viene reclutato dal colonnello Ed Pace per creare una rete di agenti segreti a Lisbona.
Gli alleati non hanno giroscopi in grado di operare ad alta quota; quindi stanno perdendo un numero eccessivamente elevato di bombardieri.
Ironia della sorte, ogni lato ha quello che gli altri non hanno: glia alleati il controllo ai diamanti di alta qualità del Congo Belga ; i tedeschi hanno un disegno per un giroscopio in grado di operare ad alta quota.
David Spaulding, nel frattempo, è diventato una spia preziosa per gli alleati.
I've read a handful of Ludlum books in my day and it was about 20 years ago that I read most of them.
I've read the 3 Bourne Books (Bourne Identity twice), the Aquitaine Progression and the Parsifal Mosaic.
I don't remember the non-Bourne books that well but enjoyed reading them when I did.
I found the Rhinemann Exchange while I was unpacking my vast book collection in my new house and decided to give it a whirl.
It was entertaining but formulaic Ludlum.
But overall I enjoyed it and will probaby still read another Ludlum if I find one in my stash or stumble upon a cheapie/freebie copy somewhere .
I haven't read much Robert Ludlum before now, however I have watched all of the "Bourne" movies and enjoyed them.Well I can say that I was not disappointed with this book and I enjoyed it's plot and characters.
I definitely will be tracking down more of his novels to read as I now suspect that the Bourne novels are much better than the films (as is usually the case).This is an interesting war time espionage story and it's concept is quite plausible which adds to it's overall readability.
well worth reading if you are into spy thrillers.
This man is a legend. He is the undefeated king of fiction. Yes Sydney is good and whoever else but Ludlum is unbelievable. (Is he still alive I need to meet him, if only for a second?) I can’t even put this book into words; you just have to read it to believe it. I won’t do it justice even if I try. Actually try reading all his books then come back and comment. I LOVE THE BOOK, LOVE THE WRITER EVEN MORE.
Excellent story well writtenEven though this book is forty years old it was a great read. My only small criticism would be that at times the detail overwhelmed the story but that may be my fault as opposed to the writer. I expect that I will read in order of publication more of the author's books. This is definitely not a fluff read which I like. I might have a few good years of reading ahead.
Du classique : un espion sur-entraîné, une hiérarchie qui ne prend pas les bonnes décisions, une couche de secret, une femme-refuge et des adversaires vraiment méchants. C'est plutôt bien écrit et se lit tout seul. Par contre la construction détruit toute notion de mystère : le livre commence par expliquer tous les secrets avant d'impliquer le héros qui lui devra les découvrir au deux-tiers du roman.
