https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/570963.Novels_in_Three_Lines
Introduction, by Luc Sante--Novels in Three LinesList of Illustrations
Fantastic concept, but although the translation is decent, some sentences are awkward and hard to comprehend"A Parisian singer, of Rue Saint-Antoine, M. Henry Nonnoy, 31, drowned at the cape of Chamigny while bathing"Or"Avenging her band, expelled from cormeilles-en-Parisis, Nita Rosch, a gypsy bit a leathery policeman from Argenteuil"Over-all a refreshing book and a unique find. Worth reading once.
Absolutely brilliant.
No, there is no 'plot' to speak of, no 'narrative.' What lies inside is something entirely original.
Culled from Fénéon's year as a reporter, his distillation of the chaos of humanity is incomparable—all in three lines.
The book starts out curio-clever and delightful in its beyond-mordent delivery, but somewhere, as if by transubstantiation, there's a paradigmatic shift impossible to pinpoint.
As the year rolls on, Fénéon the man emerges.
His opinions on religion, love, money, poverty, and more slowly reveal themselves, and the author's handling of one far-too-recurring crime betrays a man with a lovely heart.
Felix Feneon, a writer and intellectual who traveled in circles with the leading radicals of French literati of his time, humbly took a job for less than a year as the author of the faits-divers, a daily column of small news items.
Finally the wife's paring knife put to death the husband."Another favorite stabbing is reported thus: "Pauline Rivera, 20, repeatedly stabbed, with a hat pin, the face of the inconstant Luthier, a dishwasher of Chatou, who had underestimated her."If you have recently read How to Write a Sentence, which I strongly recommend you do, read this book immediately after, and you will take enormous pleasure in applying all the sentence deconstruction outlined in Fish's work upon the sculptured craft of Feneon's short prose.
These three line "novels," or "news" (nouvelle could maybe be either in French) are really short haiku-like disseminations of news events, stripped to the essence of the tale as Fénéon saw it.Félix Fénéon was a French anarchist who every day in 1906 wrote three line news items in Le Matin.
After the ninth, Theophile Papin, of Ivry, collapsed.Joseph Vergers, of Belping, Pyrenees of Orientales, and Alphones Jerome, of Pouxeus, Vosges, drowned without intending to.It suddenly occurs to me why I might be fascinated with the short form news: The three line novels/news are an early model for Twitter!
Novels in Three Lines consists of nothing hundreds of two- and three-line news pieces, usually bizarre, violent, and occasionally mysterious.
Here are a few selections, just to give you the flavor of the work:"Again and again Mme Couderc, of Saint-Ouen, was prevented from hanging herself from her window bolt.
It reminds me of a book that came out almost thirty years ago, Michael Lesy's Wisconsin Death Trip, except with Fénéon, the method is pure poetry, rather than the combination of photographs and longer news stories.
In 1906, Felix Feneon, an anarchist on his days off, wrote news items in three carefully crafted lines of one-column typeface.
They read like French Haiku.to-wit:"If my candidate loses, I will kill myself," M.
He killed himself.At Saint-Anne beach, in Finistere, two swimmers were drowning.
Another swimmer went to help.
Etienne had to rescue three people.Harold Bauer and Casals will give a concert today in San Sebastian.
The crew was rescued.The artistry of a well-crafted sentence is apparent.
Repeated often enough by Felix to bore Tony.
Recensione in tre parole per Romanzi in tre righe:SonoEstremamentePerplesso.
If you’ve wandered extensively around the Museum of Modern Art, you know this otherwise obscure author, because he’s the subject of a great painting by Paul Signac in which Félix holds a tophat and cane, and offers a flower to… no one visible.
Signac invented psychedelia to describe Félix Fénéon – and in this book we learn why.
Murder, suicide, or hoax?”And here’s a second:“Between Ville-du-Bois and Montlhéry, vagrants beat to a pulp Thomas, a tailor, and emptied his pockets.”Reading 1066 of these – nimbly translated by Luc Sante – slowly redefines “literature” in one’s mind.
Delightful! Could function as a lifetime of writing prompts. "Pauline Rivera, 20, repeatedly stabbed, with a hatpin, the face of the inconstant Luthier, a dishwasher of Chatou, who had underestimated her."

A collection of short little articles chronicling the absurd and comic and tragic events of 1904 France. The brevity and soul of a Maupassant, the journalist realism of Zola, in the length of a Tweet.
The introduction by Luc Sante is both illustrative and fantastic (it may be the high-point of the whole book.) Feneon is something of a Zelig figure whose literary output was limited, but the anonymity and fun of this particular form plays to his strengths.
The stories are often hilarious, sometimes moving, and it's fun to track certain oblique plots (this is Markson-y) through time: people trying to teach children about god; notorious phonewire thieves, fever, suicide.
Feneon seems particularly fascinated by suicide, and, as the title suggests, there is a depth to many of these.
A book designed for easy browsing and riffling through.
My favorite so far:'His head injury was not serious, believed Kremer--of Pont-a-Moussan--who continued working for a few hours, and then dropped dead.'There is an art inherent to making succinct statements.
Newspapers--from which these morsels are all drawn--show how it's done.
This is a non-fictive work!Thus: a superb format for a shelf or a coffee table, because every page intrigues.
And the lesson of the book is clear: the human condition never changes.
Newspaper obit and police blotters are the same from era to era.

In 1906, he wrote began writing these 1,220 news summaries in three lines or less for a Parisian newspaper, mostly about theft and crime, using creative syntax to add new meanings to the events.
This book collects those lines, as the title suggests, but the macabre element of each adds a violent twist that leaves me suspicious of strangers.
Until we hook up Feneon's long decayed brain to the internet, this book may have to suffice, but if anyone knows of someone who twitters stuff like this, please share:Atop the train station in Enghien a painter was electrocuted.
Luc Sante's Introduction is Five Stars by itself.
Feneon, this fascinating character, is Five Stars also.People dying on every page.
Most of the murders, suicides, accidents and the occasional miracle in 'Novels In Three Lines' could be on today's news, such is human nature.
I prefer Feneon's brief descriptions to the Media News as Entertainment shows in this day and age.
Today's news reporting would be better if it followed Feneon's format.
He was unmoved.""It was believed that work would start up again today at the steelworks in Pamiers.
The perfect book for the bathtub. The Right size and you can pick it up anywhere without worrying about the narration. Felix Feneon, a French trouble-maker of the 1900's wrote three lines dealing with crime, murder, suicides, etc. for a daily newspaper. Luc Sante (the author of the incredible collection of essays "Kill All Your Darlings") edited and translated the three-lined text like headlines. Beautifully written with a dark tinge of humor, and yes only three lines!
A glimpse of 1906: to break up the monotony of death by passion, poverty or greed, some pilfered telephone cables, assaulted girls and old women alike, or squabbled over the value of a crucifix to schoolchildren. Fires, trains and automobiles menaced human beings. Soldiers were ubiquitous.
Llamadme cínica si queréis.Todo esto me ha venido a la memoria al leer las ‘Novelas en tres líneas’ de Félix Fénéon, que son nada más ni nada menos que una serie de noticias breves de sucesos (que efectivamente no superan las tres líneas) y que el autor publicó en un periódico francés allá por 1906, pero ahora recogidas en forma de libro.
Es un libro curioso, ingenioso, hasta cierto punto simpático, pero también hasta cierto punto cansino, y una vez lo terminé me dio la sensación que no me había aportado nada; un divertimento que no se digiere mal pero que no llena.Otra cosa mala que tiene es que la biografía del autor es más interesante que el libro en sí.
Novels in Three Lines is a very odd book by French anarchist and art critic Félix Fénéon.
All are presented in three lines (well, four in the translation I read).I couldn't quite grasp the point of the book but each tiny section represented a huge event in someone's life, or several people's.
What struck me was how the news remains the same, despite the changes in costume and vehicles.Even the question of God in the schools.I don't know whether or not to recommend this book or to whom it might appeal, other than people like myself, whatever that means.
These miniatures are fully rendered, telling the whole story-- instead of a three-sentence sketch of a novel, though these pieces are evocative, it's hard to think they would be better at greater length, that the "pitch" isn't more satisfying than the novel would be.But even given the skill of the product and the satisfaction I got from reading these pieces, the book itself is weird-- it's a product of our time that the book needs to collect every entry Feneon did, but of course they aren't all great, don't all scan as well today as they might have in the moment.
They are mordant, cynical, joyful over the most bizarre and violent mishaps, attitudes and deaths, and crafted with the precision of a poet.This book contains roughly one thousand 'novels' or life stories (or death stories) that summarize in the fewest words possible what a person expired of, what a city council fought over (usually religious matters), how this or that soldier behaved, and details of suicide (disembowelled, drowned, hanged), murder (knifed, shot), accident (slipping into machinery, being run over by cars), and mutilation (a lot of acid gets thrown around).
You may think none of this could be funny, but Feneon's compression of events and his tone combine to make this book a rich, if narrow, slice of human behaviour.Quoting from it would be like eating peanuts - impossible to stop.
Alcuni scassinatori avidi di indulgenze hanno ripulito un negozio di articoli religiosi nei pressi del santuario di Clichy-sous-Bois.La signora Olympe Fraisse racconta di essere stata aggredita nel bosco di Bordezac, nel Gard, da un satiro, che avrebbe inflitto ai suoi 66 anni ripetuti, meravigliosi oltraggi.«Morirò come Giovanna d’Arco!» gridava Terbaud dall’alto della pira che si era costruito con i suoi stessi mobili.
Domenica uno sguattero di Nancy, Vital Frérotte, è morto per una sbadataggine.
Il loro ultimo desiderio, essere sepolti nella stessa bara: o quantomeno nella stessa tomba.Il signor Louis Delillieau, di 70 anni, è morto di insolazione nei dintorni di Noisy-sous-École.
Utterly fascinating and completely unclassifiable.
I couldn't put it down.
Read individually, the pieces are polished little gems.
Read collectively and chronologically they provide an exceptional and somehow intimate portrait of what France was truly like for the ordinary citizen in 1906.
Nevertheless, L.Marc, who is 30, did not consider her too young.""Finding her son, Hyacinthe, 69, hanged, Mme Ranvier, of Bussy-Saint-Georges, was so depressed she could not cut him down.""Medical examination of a little boy found in a ditch on the outskirts of Niort showed he had undergone more than just death."Highly recommended.

I thought this was excellent and ahead of its time. Quite the quotidian adventure in the spirit of remaining objective (and ironic) in the face of a tragic, beautiful, banal and ridiculous humanity.I stay with four stars because I'd be hard-pressed to say it's unwaveringly great. It has its weak moments, too, in which the everyday fails to get beyond the 'so what.' But even physically, it has a lovely cover and texture. Very worth reading & keeping one's hands on.
this was another recommendation from amazon - but I noticed I'd commented on a thread by RM recommending this book, don't know why I didn't add it then, it looks fantastic. ...it is non fiction, but reads like little novels as the title suggests. Review will follow - I've got four or five books now to catch up with and one day when I finish the editing I'm doing I'll sit down and write them all.
short turn-of-the-century news encapsulations about silly french people blowing their heads off and falling into the seine and crap like that. not terrible so much as pointless. tortured sentence structure. reaches for poetry. comes off as not-funny lines from the onion.
My video review can be found here.
