https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/957430.The_Citadel_of_Fear
3,5 La verdad es que leer este libro ha sido una de las experiencias más hermosas y gratificantes de la segunda mitad del año. Recuerdo que por estas fechas hace un par de años leí a Abraham Merritt, en concreto “The Moon Pool”. Fue entonces cuando comprendí que estaba indisolublemente unida a la literatura de folletín. A mí desde pequeña me han encantado las películas plagadas de aventuras y humor. Me he criado viendo una y otra vez "Atlantis", "La ruta hacía el dorado", "Los rescatadores", "E
Tal vez yo sea la rara aquí, pero no puedo entender cómo una persona que ama a Abercrombie, Sanderson, Sapkowski, Martin y Rothfuss no puede, ya no leerlos, sino sentir un infinito agradecimiento por los trabajos de estas personas.
Si la gente conociera a estos autores no divinizaría tanto a los autores de fantasía actual, porque sabrían que estas historias ya tienen unos precedentes que están a la altura de cualquier cosa que se escribe ahora.“La ciudadela del miedo” es una novela de corte pulp escrita entre 1918 y 1919 por Gertrude Barrows para Argosy.
Pero, sin duda, lo que he de destacar por encima de todo son las atmósferas y los elementos fantásticos.
In the introduction to the 1970 Paperback Library edition, Sam Moscowitz refers to her as "the most gifted woman writer of science fiction and science-fantasy between Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley and C.L. Moore." Pretty high praise indeed, but having read what is considered to be Stevens' masterpiece, "The Citadel of Fear," one will be tempted to agree with this assessment.
This novel originally appeared in "The Argosy" between September and October of 1918, and is as exciting and fascinating a read as any modern-day reader could hope for.It tells the tale of an Irishman and an American who come upon the lost Aztec city of Tlapallan, in the wilds of Mexico.
Having read "Citadel," I would love to read some of Francis Stevens' other tales.
I read this novel for the SFF Audio podcast, and enjoyed it very much.Citadel of Fear is a fun pulp novel from 1918, an adventure based on Aztec mythology and Irish-American adventures.
Around one third of the way in "Francis Stevens" (pen name for Gertrude Barrows Bennett) suddenly yanks the action a thousand miles away and years hence, setting up a domestic story with building menace.
Then the finale ties most of it all together with a spectacular battle.I don't want to say much more because of spoilers.As a read, Citadel of Fear offers many attractions, especially for anyone familiar with early 20th-century pulp fiction.
This is narrated by Mark Nelson and available free at Librivox.This is a very enjoyable combination of lost world, Lovecraftian monsters, H.G. Wells, and (of course!) a romance.
They are used to their Celtic gods and tales, natch!I like this summary better as it is what drew me into the book.Gertrude Barrows Bennett was the first major female writer of fantasy and science fiction in the United States, publishing her stories under the pseudonym Francis Stevens.
Citadel of Fear is considered Francis Stevens' masterpiece, by Lovecraft's acclaim.
(Summary by Wikipedia and Mark Nelson)
En ella, se nos describe de un modo bastante insólito, una mescolanza de divinidades aztecas y celtas y de eventos aterrorizadores, que a la postre, desembocan en una batalla del bien contra el mal donde intervienen fuerzas cósmicas más allá de toda comprensión.
Además, hay otros elementos que lo pueden ligar con Lovecraft, como por ejemplo, una parte en la que se nos describe una sección de la trama a través de la declaración de un tercero, sótanos tenebrosos que ocultan secretos mórbidos, etcétera.Vaya, no digo que sea tan buena como alguno de los mejores relatos de Lovecraft, pero si se quiere leer tan sólo por buscar los puntos de concordancia que tiene con ellos, la verdad vale la pena, aunque eso si, hay que soportar los convencionalismos que exigía la literatura más convencional el estilo.
Vintage and strange. Stevens was the first American female author to find significant success and respect within the fields of SF and fantasy. This is considered by many to be her masterpiece, and concerns an adventurer's attempts at escaping the physical manifestations of Aztec mythology that follow him home from Mexico. Hailing from 1918, it's exciting, not overly pulpy, and strengthened by some eerie and effective imagery.
Citadel of Fear is a novel from the World War I era, which may have been good for the time that it was written, but doesn’t particularly hold up today.
The novel then has a jarring and abrupt shift into the future and eventually ties back into the lost city from the beginning of the novel.Despite the title, there is nothing especially horrific happening in this story.
The shift from past to present was so abrupt that it almost seemed as if I were reading an entirely different story.
It’s often difficult to judge stories written in a different era.
Gertrude Barrows Bennett, who wrote as Francis Stevens, was America's first major female author of speculative fiction and was praised by her contemporary, H.P. Lovecraft.
Indeed, while the tropes of lost eons, malevolent gods, and unspeakable abominations are familiar to anyone who enjoys weird fiction, Bennett's writing is suffused with a kind of hallucinatory gloom that makes even the most mundane scenes feel slightly off-kilter.
The "transmutation" horror also recalls some of Arthur Machen's Little People stories.The female characters are surprisingly standard for this era, however.
This book gets four stars because it so far exceeded my expectations. It is an exquisitely strange pulp fantasy.Many free public domain epub editions lack the final third of the book, seemingly by mistake; a complete version is available on Librivox.
A 1918 classic by an once popular author of the Pulps such as Argosy, now largely forgotten. Some of his yarns are really still great reads, this novella starts well, but shows its age.
And, as in Heads of Cerberus, the hero is a outsized Irishman, this time Colin O'Hara (huge in both size and character), protecting his beloved sister and finding his true love in a most unlikely setting.The writing is top-notch throughout, falling down only in the mad scientist's droning monologs, "explaining" what he's doing with great bad temper and little insight.
Not every reader seems to love her characters, but given the time – the second decade of the 20th century, when Bennett was considered one of the inventors of gory fantasy – they are quite good.
I could't get into this book. There was just too much of a story stretched out over too long of a time frame that it never really got to the point where anything on interest happened. The booked started out in Mexico with a thrilling discovery of a lost city. The reader is then transported years later back to America with our main character where a string of events are laboriously stretched out. There are much better pulp fiction or early sci-fi/fantasy books to explore.
This was nothing like what I might have expected. Throughout most of the book I was intrigued and looked forward to the outcome. For a while it seemed to lead me towards an almost happy conclusion. In the end I was sorely disappointed. The ending felt a bit contrived and was a let down. I will not give the details as overall it was a pretty good read.
I was pleasantly surprised to find out about Stevens: she's like A. Merritt in a lot of ways, but has a better sense of humor and a welcome ability to ground the wildest flights of fantasy in a recognizably normal everyday world.
Old fashioned language but it works for me. I've kept this book for more than 30 years which says it all really.My copy is the one pictured a paperback library edition published in 1970 with 270 pages.
Mexican gods, a tale that spans decades, fight between good and evil, keeps you on your toes!
