https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107776.Ransom
I'm going to keep this short and sweet! I loved this book too. I have pretty much loved every Julie Garwood book I have read so far. This book was like two love stories in one. The main love story was Gillian and Brodick. The other love story was a small side story that I felt really should have been it's own book. That side love story was Ramsey and Bridgid. I loved Brodick from   and he was amazing in this book. He was so rough, hard, kick ass, and so damn prefect that I just love the hell out
This book was like two love stories in one.
The main love story was Gillian and Brodick.
That side love story was Ramsey and Bridgid.
Gillian was brave, sweet and outspoken.
I love outspoken heroines that don't let men walk on them.
Gillian didn't let Brodick walk all over her.
I loved them as a couple and I loved every minute of their love story.
Then I could have had more time with them.
Also Ramsey and Bridgid were so likable they should have gotten their own book.
I wanted more time with them too.
This is why it's dangerous to do rereads.sighSo, 5 years ago, I read this and thought it was A-MAZING.Like, the bestest book evah!
Reallyreallyreally cheap!It wouldn't be an exaggeration to say I guard my money like that shriveled-up hobbit thing from Lord of the Rings.Anyway, I went into this expecting to feel...And, instead, I felt more...I'm not sure what happened here, but, this time around, I thought the dialogue was kinda clunky.
I just loved these books!Brodick Buchanan was a secondary character in The Secret that had "hero" tattooed on his forehead, so I was more than happy when I found out that Ransom was "his" book.
When he told Gillian that she loved him, I giggled like a schoolgirl.
I didn't get to see the build-up of their relationship, especially on Ramsey's side, so it was kind of disappointing to see their HEA crammed into Brodick and Gillian's.This was a long book (546 pages) but, frankly, it didn't feel like it.
I was grateful that Julie Garwood kept Brodick, regardless of his feelings and love for Gillian, true to his character traits throughout the book.
I liked her spunk, confidence, determination, kindness, and heroism, even though she had a few of those “too stupid to live” moments.In my opinion, Julie Garwood has a way of creating the most lovable and endearing heroines I’ve read.
There isn’t a Julie Garwood book I’ve read where I didn’t completely fall in love with her wonderfully spunky and engaging heroines.
Ransom is one of the better Julie Garwood books I’ve read.
She understands why we read romance, and one of the reasons is we want heroines who we can root for, that we fall in love with just as much as the heroes.
Maybe that's a good thing, because the common dilemma for a romance fan is to like the hero more.I have read the other two Highland Laird books and loved them.
The romance is great, but there's so much more in addition to offer in this book.One of the things that spoke to me strongly was the theme of family and loyalty.
The book is one huge mother of a read but you barely feel it as the pages go whipping on by.
You get two top notch alphas Highlanders: Ramsey and Brodick both lairds of their clan.
The word play in one marriage scene is so well-done that the reader feels like the heroine and doesn't know which end is up or what just happened!
There's a great group of villains and some outright hilarious scenes.
Do not even think of crossing them when their heroines are in danger.
When you think of "alpha hero" these guys certainly come come to mind!
Was this 5 star literature? No, but it sure is 5 star enjoyable. It's campy at times and I doubt the historical accuracy "and you know what?" I didn't care. I was so happy to get Brodick's story and Gillian was lovable despite being so perfect. I won't say much about this as it's been reviewed a zillion times. It's pure fantasy, but it kept me absorbed and put a smile on my face.Susan Duerden was a fabulous narrator, as usual.
His character is quite amusing, because he is used to issuing commands and having them obeyed and no protests allowed, I loved his stubbornness, strength, and ways he manages Gillan.The Heroine Gillian has only known pain and grief, she loved her family, but when she witnesses her father being killed right in front of her, her life changed.
She is determined to save her uncle, no matter the risk to herself.Plot and Story Line For quite some time I have been wanted to re read Julie Garwood’s historical romances.
Sigh!!! I loved this book, super sweet and endearing!!! Julie Garwood never does me wrong. I love her highlander series!!!
I feel like I’m repeating myself about Ms. Garwood; but, while there were a few LOL moments, what I really found was that I was smiling throughout this book.
I like smiling while I listen to a story; it gives me a warm feeling; makes me want to hunker down under my covers and stay there, indulging in a bit of escapism to Garwood’s Medieval Scotland.
They all got to know each other on a different level, and it is easy for me to see the four of them remaining friends for life.That said, I felt the resolution of secondary love story was a bit too quick; greedy romance reader that I am, I would have liked a smidgen more.
★★★★ I read this, the second in the Highlands’ Lairds series, years ago and thought I’d give it another go to see if it still held up. (It does!) There was also going to be a “buddy read” – something I find hard to resist, since I love a good discussion about a great book.My image of green eyed, brown-haired Gillian.Picture by artist, Cris Ortega.Thank you, Pamela(AllHoney), one of my “buddy read” group, for introducing me to this talented artist.What can I say about a classic Garwood Highland M
(It does!) There was also going to be a “buddy read” – something I find hard to resist, since I love a good discussion about a great book.My image of green eyed, brown-haired Gillian.Picture by artist, Cris Ortega.Thank you, Pamela(AllHoney), one of my “buddy read” group, for introducing me to this talented artist.What can I say about a classic Garwood Highland Medieval and –at 546 pages – a “chunkster” to boot?
☺Here we get two love stories in one, which some people don’t like, but I found one complimented the other and made the developing friendship between the two women, Gillian and Bridgid, a more realistic relationship.
Buna Brodick de dâhil çünkü inatçı savaşçımız derdini çoğunlukla homurdanarak anlatmasıyla meşhur.Bu sert, iri yarı, haşin erkeğin kalbine girmeyi başaran Gillian; ufak bir çocuğu kurtarıp ailesine teslim etmek ve Kral John’a ait hazineyi bulmak üzere İskoçya’ya doğru yola çıkıyor.
(view spoiler)[ Ama bir şeye değinmeden edemeyeceğim: Patrick’in altı çocuğu olmuşken Iain sadece üçte mi kalmış?
(hide spoiler)]Ayrıca Ramsey’in de bu kitapta araya sıkıştırılmış olması beni çok üzdü.
Bu kalın kafayla daha çok sürünür diye umuyordum ama etrafındakilerin –özellikle Morgan Amca'nın- yardımı olmasa halleri nasıl olurdu bilemedim.Kitabın sonunda gönlüme göre bir epilog gene yoktu ama Morgan Amcamızın dahil olduğu kısımlar süperdi.
Wow I laughed a lot during this read which balanced out how many times I wanted to throttle Brodick.
I don't even consider his and Bridgid love story safe or really anything special.
She had to watch him whore around for years and the only thing I was glad for was he didn't actually end up sleeping with anyone after meeting her but he wanted to and he would have if she didn't stop it.
So glad they didn't have a whole story.
I really wish I could read about a celibate hero or non "rake" type.
She starts great, but then she kind of loses her mojo and she rushes things trough, and Ransom is no exception.I loved the beginning, I liked how she took time to introduce the heroine, how she talks about her childhood, about the thing that happened when Gillian was 4 years old.
To make the long story short, I loved the beginning even thought it took forever for Gillian to actually meet the hero Brodick.When they finally do meet it's lovely, sexy and sweet.
All in all it was a fun book, but it could have been great, and because I love Garwood's heroines and heroes so much it's a 3.5 stars.
Brodick is the synonym for Alpha males and very savage but he is one of those Heroes you want for yourself , Aye Gillian and Brodick's story is heartwarming , Ramsey-Brigid's is like icing on the cake. I am glad I read it, Gonna dig for more Highland stories now.
I really wanted to love this book but I thought the two female protagonists were both totally bland nitwits.
Beautiful beyond belief with zero personality.
Not even the Viking-like alpha Scottish lairds could make up for that.
So yes, I read every word of every page but I rolled my eyes a million times (that may be a slight exaggeration) and laughed openly at the inconsistency of the characters.
Would I read another in the series?
Not because the books are great quality reads but because HRs are freaking addicting and I'm a sucker for a happily ever after.
I can only say Brodick would be the only guy I would replace my hubby for - fortunately for my darling beloved, I have multiple copies of this book and can have them both.
Too annoying to enjoy.I've read three Julie Garwood novels which were similar: The Secret, Saving Grace and Ransom.
They bring some changes and knowledge to the Scottish people by telling them not to commit certain crimes, to be polite and to have better manners For example one heroine says never steal horses, just borrow them and return them later.
In two of the books, the heroines bring improved medical knowledge to the Scots.
Later she tells someone she is bethrothed and a soldier says no she is not.
Her not knowing that she was married lasted through several scenes in the book.
Not my very-most favorite by Julie Garwood, but entertaining, amusing, and smexy.Gillian was foolish to put herself in harm's way at the end, and I could not believe that she didn't realize what was happening to her, on the horse (snort).
It reads like a tall tale, a "great big fish" story, exaggerated and totally improbable.
But it feels like Garwood knows this, writing with tongue firmly in cheek, and inviting her readers to wink, blink, and go along for the wild ride, with lots of laughs and smexy fun along the way.
As a child, Gillian saw Baron Alford slaughter her father.
Her father's guards try to move Gillian and her sister to safety.
Her older sister made it to Scotland, but Gillian wasn't so lucky.
Now Baron Alford wants to find the King's treasure and believes Gillian knows where it is located.
She quickly gains the help of Scottish Lairds Brodick Buchanan and Ramsey Sinclair.
With their help and the help of her newest friend, Brigid Kirkconnell, Gillian will bring her fight right back to England and the doorstep of Baron Alford.This is the second book in the Highland's Lairds series.
Back during the period when I only read historical romances (and back when that was all she wrote), Julie Garwood was my go-to author for swoon-worthy, funny stories with extreme alpha-heroes and innocent heroines.
But they just made me giggle and sigh and devour the stories in one sitting.Brodick Buchanan is, without a doubt, my favorite of Julie Garwood’s heroes.
But for years it has always been the re-read that has made me laugh, made me sigh and made me fall in love with Julie Garwood and this particular Scotsman all over again.
OK I am getting seriously addicted to this series, which is sad because there’s only 1 more book left after this!Here are some of my thoughts:• I LOVE the protagonist, Gillian. The book starts with the flashback, and I thought she was so annoying as a kid. However, she turns out to be so brave and caring of people. I love how she has saved Alec and has always put others before herself. She has shown over and over how badass she is. She’s not a physical fighter, but she is literally more courageo
THEN, I thought perhaps there was going to be a love triangle between Gillian, Ramsey, and Bridgid (view spoiler)[who I honestly thought was going to be her sister.
I honestly enjoyed it, and I love the characterization of Gillian and Brodick.Things that you might want to know (WARNING: Spoilers below)Happy/satisfying ending?
(view spoiler)[The Father Laggan scene when he was shocked and hysterical finding out that Brodick tricked him and Gillian in the marriage.
4.5 starsThis book is so delightful because the heroine is so charming. I love that she is both naive and smart, assertive and shy. After reading it last month, I'm listening to it on audio and the story is even better with that Highlander accent. Ransom is fast becoming my favorite historical romance.
After another re-read, I still find myself loving Garwood's simple, charming, medieval romance. It includes great humor and one of my all time favorite five year old characters. Loved it!
Another amazing Julie Garwood HR!I adored Gillian and Brodick!
Yes, that is due too my personal triggers, (view spoiler)[but I hated that Ramsay kept on whoring around even afte4 knowing he wanted Bridgit, and what hurt mos5 was him inviting her to live under his roof and them telling OW to be waiting on his bed, a5 the same night, and of course, when Brigit found her there and he said he invited OW himself she hurt unmeasurably.
Ramsay didn’t deserve her, and the whole situation is too bad, because other than his story with Brigit, I quite liked his character...Oh, and of course I wanted an Epilogue for Gillian and Brodick, they were incredible and I wanted to read all about their HEA!
It's about Lady Gillian whose father was killed when their home was invaded when she was just a little girl.
His father gives her big sister Christen a treasure but the two sisters are separated in the flight and Gillian is captured.
He's taken her uncle hostage and if she doesn't bring back her sister and the treasure he will kill him.But this is a highland romance?
Yes, Christen is hiding in the Scottish highlands.
I mean it was awesome but there was a little thing that bothered me and that was (minor) (view spoiler)[that Gillian was too stubborn and reckless.
Can't count how many times I've read this. Still as AWESOME as ever. Brodick rocks!
The second book in the Highlands' Lairds series by Julie Garwood.
I loved both Brodick and Gillian.
Brodick is a large alpha hero who strikes fear in his enemies.
She must also rescue a young highlander boy and return him to his family.
Brodick is just the man to help her in these quests.
There was also a secondary romance with the Laird of the Sinclair clan, Ramsey and the young, beautiful and much sought after, Bridgid.
There is intrigue and mystery and suspense but mostly romance."Every man has a weakness!" he patiently explained.
"What is your weakness, Brodick?" she asked.
It is one of the fascinating stories I have ever read.I loved the way how Gillian and Brodick thrown into the situation and eventually fall in love.
I loved Ramsay and Brigid little story too.“Every man has a weakness!” he patiently explained.
“You.”I loved everything about the story.
I loved the characters and their development.
I also loved the way story develop and unfold the mystery.
No doubt Julie Garwood is an outstanding Author who knows how to mesmerize their readers.
And she did mesmerize me with her excellent writing.
And I will recommend it to every historical reader.
DNFGot to 50% and the insta-love, awkward conversations, and kinda boring plot is making me stop. The adorably obnoxious Alec (he's a five year old boy) is the only reason I got this far, and his character is why I'm giving this two stars instead of one.
