https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1003311.Norstrilia
Rod McBan es un joven que vive en el planeta Norstrilia, el más rico del universo gracias al stroon, una sustancia que alarga la vida indefinidamente.
Los habitantes de Norstrilia son telépatas, algo que a Rod le resulta casi imposible, y como todo joven del planeta, deberá pasar una prueba de vida o muerte.
Quizá esta novela, la única que escribió Cordwainer, no me haya impactado tanto como sus relatos, pero me quedo con esa primera parte en Norstrilia, y con algunos de los percances que le acontecen a Rod en la Tierra.
"Tells the story of a boy from the planet Old North Australia (where rich, simple farmers grow the immortality drug Stroon), how he bought Old Earth, and how his visit to Earth changed both him and Earth itself."A very eccentric novel, a bit frustrating at times, but quite entertaining.
This book rattles from beginning to end in less than 300 pages, just hitting the high spots.Things I particularly liked: attention to Australia, a country which rarely gets mentioned in science fiction; Rod's sensual appreciation of the environment of Old Earth.Other observations: this books follows in a tradition of the 1960s science fiction that deals with telepathy as a real thing; it joins books like Kurt Vonnegut's Welcome to the Monkey House in dealing with longevity and population control issues.A fun, fast, and quirky read.
Norstrilia: The only novel set in the “Instrumentality of Mankind” universeOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureI’ve always wanted to read the work of Cordwainer Smith (pen name of Paul Linebarger, a scholar and diplomat who was expert in East Asia and psychological warfare), who also moonlighted as a quirky SF author who wrote a number of short stories mainly in the 50s and 60s set in the Instrumentality of Mankind, a full-fledged galaxy-spanning far-future universe.He has something of a cult following, but really only has a few books to his credit, the collected short stories that can be found in The Instrumentality of Mankind (1974), The Best of Cordwainer Smith (1977), and The Rediscovery of Man (1993).
4.5 Stars. The only novel ever written by Cordwainer Smith which is a real tragedy for fans of excellent, imaginative science fiction. This is a great big story full of great ideas and cool concepts. Nominee Hugo Award Best Novel (1964) (The Planet Buyer)
What I learned from this book:1. Inflation has its uses.2. Sometimes the best computer for the job is the laminated brain of a mouse . . .3. The economic significance of mutant sheep.4. Go big or go home. A sideways and roundabout look at a strange and twisted future involving everything from telepathic mink to bird-men with hypnotic mandalas to a man who literally bought the planet earth. I don't know why it works, but it most certainly does - this is a must read for anyone who appreciates a unique imagination of the world to come.
A girl who loves him, Lavinia, knows that this is not strictly true as there are times when Rod can hier everyone’s thoughts for miles around and when he is angry his mind is powerful enough to disable or kill.Having survived the test, with the help of Lord Redlady, a member of the ruling body – The Instrumentality of Mankind – it seems Rod is still in danger from one Houghton Syme, an old schoolmate of Rod’s who is determined to kill or destroy him.
He also tackles (in one of those strange coincidences of unknowingly reading two books about the same theme back-to-back, which seem to happen to me inordinately often) the same sticky question of how immortality would change human society that Elizabeth Moon was delving into in her Serrano books.This is a story which describes a young man who buys the earth and goes to visit it, becomes a cat, meets some people, and goes home.
Interesting book, the author's only novel.
Feels like a serial adventure, collected tales - and indeed this universe is detailed through the author's other short stories.Set in the far future, this coming-of-age story fits in the space opera mold at times.
Bigger ideas from the author's world are only hinted at.
Norstrilia is considered an SF masterwork and is on David Pringle's list of 100 best SF novels.
A solid 3½ stars, with a possible increase after reading the collected short works.
It does throw these loopy ideas at you frequently and many of them are neither explained nor expanded upon, though I understand much of it ties into the short stories collected in The Rediscovery of Man. Apparently it was one of the more ambitious early examples of a sci-fi universe and the novel is meant to be read within that broader context.Smith's prose tends to the literary and his influences and style are uncommon.
The Chinese influence manifests in this aspect.It's certainly a book with a convoluted publishing history, having taken about six years to write as a novel, then being hacked apart for various different versions in magazines and being split into two novellas not once but twice.
This is essentially a coming-of-age story with a difference.
The main narrative traces his growth to responsible adulthood as he comes to Earth to manage his purchase.The story is set in Smith's marvelous alternate universe, the Instrumentality of Mankind (see The Rediscovery of Man).
His interactions with them inform his own growth and the growth of mankind as it comes to inhabit the entire galaxy.Cordwainer Smith has many axes to grind in his alternative universe, although he usually grinds them with considerable subtlety.
I never heard of such a thing before, though it seems like something that libraries would do to prolong the lives of paperback books.Getting into this story now and enjoying it very much - love the humongous sheep!
"The Demon Princes" is another work that this is suggestive of.- "ceilinging"!!!Rod has reached Earth - HOW???
Some kind of mysterious space travel which he explains in more detail in other stories.
Rod has been getting deeper into his earth adventures and the connections to "Stranger in a Strange Land" and "Dune" come up again.
It is more than just a novel, but a mythic tale of a future world that feels like a legend.
derived from a cat but one of the most perfect women in the universe, to the Catmaster, master of the Department Store of Hearts Desires and the last psychologist on earth, and to Rod McBan himself, a boy from a world where they kill their own people to keep the population down and a handkerchief costs more to import than a if he bought a planet.
The world is rich and linked together like a living thing, and only Dickson's Childe Cycle novels come close.
Stroon allows earthlings to live thousands of years instead of the allotted 400 or so.To limit their wealth and keep to their simple farming ways, Nostrilians impose a 2 mllion per ent tariff on all inboud goods.
(I maybe got that figure wrong, it could be two thousand or twenty million.) The hero, Rob McBan, is the innocent country lad who has to make his way through a decadent earth filled with those who want to exploit him, kill him, or who think of him as a kind of messiah.The story is fun from beginning to end, but Smith does not stint on the dark background of his future world.
It's a tragedy that Cordwainer Smith left so little behind; this book, along with the collection of short stories from the same universe whose title escapes me now, is an example of absolutely masterful science fiction.
This odd, meandering tale felt more like a prequel than a stand alone novel. Just when things seemed to start happening, it ended. I'm actually a bit glad I won't make it to my book club meeting about this one because "if you can't say anything nice..."
For example, the book features "underpeople" which are animals modified into human form so as to fill service roles in society; Norstrilia itself is short for Old North Australia and is a planet on which an immortality-bestowing fungus called stroon is harvested from huge, sick, hundred-ton sheep, a product that enriches the Norstrilians out of all proportion to the rest of the galaxy but for the fact that extremely high taxes keep the Norstrilian farmers limited to a spare, hardscrabble rural life.
This was the only novel-length work Smith wrote, having focused instead on short stories, many of which are seemingly set in the same universe as NORSTRILIA.
Incidences of too casual a description of violence aside, what surprised me the most was the modern sensitivity on cultural issues such as class and gender. Because of this, I found many of the characters very sympathetic.
I found it intriguing, but I also feel unsatisfied.Norstrilia is a dense science fiction novel.
I really wanted to understand this universe.Unfortunately, the overarching feeling I had while reading this novel was one of waking up in a foreign land to be dragged breathlessly through a chaotic marketplace.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[ Third, Rod is paired with a catgirl named C'Mell.
After many paragraphs saying love between humans and underpeople is forbidden and these two are just friends, C'Mell suddenly takes her clothes off and offers herself to Rod. He declines, and she just pretends it did not happen.
I would have preferred a more active protagonist, but it can't be that way: this story is part of a larger bunch of stories, and the story has to be driven by the needs of humanity, the underpeople, the Instrumentality, etc.
The ending also made me happy, and that might have bumped it to 4 stars just there, especially the dream elements.
This way he gets to (view spoiler)[have C'Mell - in a way, and for a time - and end up with Lavinia in the end.
I like that Rod decides to give old Hot & Simple a measure of happiness.
(hide spoiler)]I'm vastly amused by the premise, too.
I am so happy that I fell once again in love with it.This classic science fiction novel draws heavily on the short stories set in the time of the Instrumentality of Mankind.
I had the background to understand more about the harsh, practical world of Norstrilia, along with its customs.
It is a harsh world and its customs seem cruel to me, but it made perfect sense in the setting of the book.
If you are a science fiction fan and have read any of Cordwainer Smith's short stories and liked them, but not read Norstrilia yet, you definitely should check this book out.
I adored the collection of Cordwainer Smith's short stories called The Rediscovery of Man so was pretty pleased to track down this related novel.
It isn't as good as some of the shorts.The plot of Norstrilia is pretty great, as far as it goes -- it's like a smart deconstruction of the gee-whiz sci-fi of Asimov or Heinlein.
Yikes.It's also amazing to read this (and lots of other good classic science fiction) and think about the male writers of the time who were so insightful and imaginative about the future of technology and human existence, yet were unable to imagine updated gender relations or a changed role for women in human society.
Cordwainer Smith wrote SF like nobody else.
It's strange and wonderful, and as most of it is in such a distant and strange future most of it hasn't dated.
Norstrilia is his only novel set in that future (and in fact the only novel he wrote under the name Cordwainer Smith).
It's a wonderful book, full of invention and detail, that merits rereading.
This is the first time I've re-read it in a number of years -- maybe even since I edited the NESFA Press edition back in 1994.
I don't think I'll wait that long to read it again.
Ever read Dune? Like it? In particular, did you like the world, the spice concept, the idea of spaceflight powered by precognitives, a universal economy based on a life-extending substance, etc? Well, good. Because then you already like most of Norstrilia.I can only imagine Frank Herbert liked this book a whole lot, because he borrowed a shocking amount of it wholesale. Norstrilia is basically Dune without the pretension, long monologues, weird social-political diatribes, and giant worms. Instead, it is fast-paced, humorous, and has super-giant sheep. A masterpiece, in my opinion, from an utterly forgotten sci-fi great.
This is one of the best SF or fantasy novels I’ve read in a long time. McBan’s transformation into a simple farmer to the owner of the entire planet earth is cleverly executed and paced so well that it makes the unlikely storyline feel plausible and makes for a fascinating, though short, read. Once you’ve read this, you’ll find yourself believing in cat people, talking apes, and giant sheep with the ability to extend human lifespans.
Honestly, I like the short stories better, but this novel had a lot of charm. Very sixties sentimentality, mixed with the man who sold the world kind of ideas, and yet, it fit perfectly with the extended future histories that made his writings really special.
Got about 3/4 of the way through this and picked up another book. Oh and it had to go back to the library. The writing is pretty high quality, but the plot failed to capture my interest for whatever reason. Sometimes I just can't explain these things.
Reads like a children's story mixed with mythic folklore warped by Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds. Meh
This is such a good book! Cordwainer Smith is now one of my favorite authors. I`m STILL trying to figure out how I missed him for 58 years!
This is such a good book! Cordwainer Smith is now one of my favorite authors. I`m STILL trying to figure out how I missed him for 58 years!
a strange, strange book but very, very good.
all of his short SF works can be found in a single six-hundredish page volume and he only had one slim SF novel to his credit.But what sets his writing apart from his peers who were operating in the genre at the time was his dedication to a very wide-spanning and elaborate future history featuring what he called "The Instrumentality" .
