https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5187.The_Book_of_Ruth
I think it is so strange that the characters are discounted as "white trash", their story thus, uninteresting or too dreary.
While the story is by no means a happy one it is highly engrossing and worth telling.
The story is very realistic and you come away feeling like you have read truths, if not about fictional characters then real people somewhere out there who are experiencing very similar lives.
If you are the type of person who is only happy reading stories that end happily-ever-after then steer clear of this book.
It can't be day after day, year after year of going from being a confused and misunderstood backwoods girl with some small un-nurtured bit of promise to a confused backwoods teen with slightly less promise, to a ridiculous backwoods woman who is no smarter, no more interesting, and no more relavant than anyone else living in a valley made of dirt.Look: populations need stories.
He was 16 when he wrote that, and even his sad naif protagonist had a few meaningful and well-turned revelations to make it all worthwhile.But I got halfway through the story when I realized it wasn't GOING anywhere.
This is one of my all-time favorite books. It's a book that changes one's perspective on people and walking a mile in other's shoes before judging. Did your school have one or two or maybe more kids that were just "off" -- easy targets for bullies and even kids who usually seemed nice? In this book the main character's name isn't even mentioned until the end because she's someone who is constantly minimized ... or even worse, unnoticed.
people complain about ruth being "white trash," but i think they are missing the whole point - putting yourself in a world not your own. i grew to adore ruth as i experienced her small-town world. i found her ability to daydream and fantasize intelligent and mesmerizing. people also complain about the ending - let me just say that while it is harsh, it is an eye opening juxtaposition between hum-drum and madness.
Noir par excellence.
The book just lost me, despite the picturesque, but dark dragging and dragging and dragging and dragging and dragging prose.
No oomph.
No spirit.
The first third of the book had me excited.
The next third had me counting the pages.
The last third was just more of the monotonous same.
How long should we wait before the paint will dry on this wall of misery?So Ruth was born in misery, which means Ruth will die in misery.
The end.
Just like that.
Between the beginning and end some masterful prose got wasted.And that's it.
Throughout the story, which lags at times in Ruth's simple cadence, there are bits of foreshadowing of some life-changing, terrible day.
So you keep reading through 300 pages and the book's nearly finished and then it's there, and you're suprised and shocked and saddened even though you knew this terrible day was coming.
It doesn't exactly sneak up on you, this moment, but it does kind of knock you out.Hamilton, as with later books including A Map of The World, is good at writing about terrible things, trials of the soul.
This book is quite sad but has an amazing voice. The protagonist, Ruth, was never encouraged to do much with her life and has always been told she was not quite that bright. However, she has some incredible insights into human nature and her story is very barebones. Hamilton writes Ruth in such a way that her thoughts about the world are those that many of us have but never reveal because of social custom. Ruth's ideas are often right on and her "alleged" stupidity allows her to state things in an incredibly honest manner. A very clever narrative.
Aside from being rather depressing at times, The Book of Ruth is an incredible story of family, loss and life.
The author pulled off an exceedingly difficult trick: she wrote from the first person perspective of a character far less educated than she herself is, and yet it was both a) totally believable and b) not a painful literary abortion.
It's so easy to believe that you are hearing the story directly from this poor uneducated young woman, without reflecting on the fact that she managed to write a book, something most privileged college-educated upper middle class academics will never accomplish in spite of their misplaced belief that they could do so easily.
Then again, I didn't enjoy quite a lot of classes I've taken in my life, and I didn't learn as much in most of them.
This is the story of a white trash girl named Ruth, her white trash mother and her white trash boyfriend/husband with bad teeth.
Ruth had great potential but never realized any of it.
A bad story was made even worse when about 4/5 of the way through, there was suddenly a horrific and bloody scene that took about 4 pages of graphic descriptions.
I would have been OK with it all if Ruth had changed for the better or pulled herself together because of the event, but she chose to stay ignorant.
Book of Ruth is Jane Hamilton's first novel.
"What it begins with, I know finally, is the kernel of meanness in people's hearts.
I don't know exactly how or why it gets inside us; that's one of the mysteries I haven't solved yet.
Personally, I have read it so many times I can practically recite parts of it out loud.
The New York Times Book Review said, "Ms. Hamilton gives Ruth a humble dignity and allows her hope--- but it's not a heavenly hope.
And it's probably the only kind that's worth reading about."
After all last month in the company of, how can I put this delicately, white trash (with the insupportable Harry “Rabbit” Angstrom) I got my hands on this, another American Family tragedy.
This, a “first novel,” seems like a breeze to read since its protagonist is, according to those that surround her, “slow.” Theme & form are the same, & maybe that is too much of a cop out.
I’ve read stuff like this before (She’s Come Undone, The Patron St. of Liars, White Oleander… more…)The ending seems a long way coming.
First, it was an Oprah book club pick, and second, it won some Hemingway writing award.
I always find Oprah's picks terribly dark and I despise Hemingway.
Sorry to all the Hemingway fans out there.
BUT, on the back cover a review said the book was very "Dickensonian" and another said it had quirky off-beat characters in the vein of Anne Tyler--two authors that I happen to love, so I gave it whirl.
I loathe ignorance.
And the characters that fill this book are just so ignorant, and spiteful, and trashy, that I--well, it nearly turned my stomach at times.
Ruth is not pretentious and she's not trying to tell a woe-is-me story, even though my heart broke for her again and again.
She mentions at the end of the novel that she wishes she could change her name to "Ruth Truth," but I think a better name would be "Resilient Ruth." Possibly one of the things that kept me reading was the character development.
I tend to feel a close connection with the character telling the story, so it wasn't difficult for me to relate to Ruth.
Overall, I think this was a beautifully written, albeit depressing, book well worth a read.
However, that soon proved not to be the case.Initially I thought the book was rather good.
soon became very annoying.I then skim read looking for something that I had perhaps missed in the book (as obviously so many people had liked it), and then sailed on to the end as quickly as I could.
Unfortunately, I couldn't send it up into my Kindle "cloud" as I had purchased the paperback.I personally found this rather non-linear book was all over the place.
My poor just brain couldn't handle it unfortunately.I'm looking at the cover now.
We were assigned this book as part of a writing course, with the intention that the instructor would have us read a few chapters per week, for us to discuss the author's use of craft. Our first discussion opened with the group unanimously loathing the book so much that it was never brought up again. I read it to the end to see if things got better - they did not, a tedious downer to the final sentence.
I finally finished this book which has been on my "could-not-finish" shelf for ages.
it is a lyrical book with beautiful prose, but the subject matter is extremely depressing and it never lifts itself up.
It's like Hamilton has never heard the term "comic relief".
I loved Jane Hamilton's "A Map of the World" and "A Short History of a Prince", but this book made me weary of Hamilton's metaphor-a-minute writing and her continuous dwelling on everything ugly about people.
Everyone says that this book has a hopeful ending; well, that's not saying much considering that there is no where else to go at the end of this book except up.
This book was a huge dissapointment.
The reader is forced to listen to the story of a woman who leads an unhappy and meaningless life.
Throughout the eventless book you keep waiting for something to occur to make reason of the narrator's purpose in life, but instead find out that she is simply a pathetic and unhappy person.
In the last few pages a huge twist occurs, but it is simply too late to indulge the reader, and is to much to take into too short of an amount of time.
The only thing stopping me from giving this book a one is that the book was well written.
One of the reviewers of this book called it "a sly and wistful ...
appealingly offbeat and brushed with grace" but I wonder if those reviewers read the same book that I did.
Perhaps if this was part of a series, and we could also hear others' stories (May's and Matt's and Ruby's and Justy's) in their own voices, I would like it better.
Alone, it feels like there is not enough to explain Ruth's feelings, her background, and why she would put up with the things she did, instead of doing something to change them.
Hands down probably one of the most disturbing books I have ever read in my life.
At the unexpected climax of the novel, I got physically sick reading the description and almost fainted.
The characters in this novel are unforgettable.
Any of them would be just as fascinating, disturbing, dark, and honest as Book of Ruth.
Ruth is one of the most tragic characters I have ever read about.
I loved Ruby because Ruth loved Ruby, I pitied May because Ruth pitied May. There are so many interesting aspects to all the characters I feel the need to read the book again, as soon as I know I can stomach the ending.
I absolutely loved the story that main character Ruth tells about her pathetic family in rural Illinois, I can't believe this was the author Jane Hamilton's first novel, it's brilliant and made me laugh and gasp in horror too.
Ruth's mother May had a hard life - her first husband and love of her life was killed at war, her brilliant son Matt never returned her love, her second husband abandoned her, she's alienated her entire family, and as far as she's concerned her daughter Ruth can't do anything right.
Ruth and Ruby together are completely headed towards catastrophe but she tells the story with such love and conviction it's never difficult to read at any point...
To my subconscious:We do not need to read this book again. Once was enough. I don't know why you decided to pull me toward it for a second go-round, but it stops here. Pick something nice next time.Thanks ever so,CaraTo my memory:Exactly how did we manage to forget ever having read a book with such a grisly ending, for the entire book right up to the page before said grisly ending? Try to do better next time.Most sincerely.
This book was a journey through the life of Ruth Grey.
Her truth was too painful to put into words.Much of Ruth's painful journey through life with her mother brother and later, her husband was very sad, but some of it was very moving and funny.
She felt that she had a hard life and she was hard on her children, especially Ruth.
Mrs. Finch was blind and Ruth used to go to her house every afternoon to load the tapes for the audio books that she listened to.
Ruth listened too and the books and Mrs. Finch saved her from being completely isolated and uneducated.
For that quality of the writing and character development I can rate this highly.But, my god is this one hell of a depressing tale!
You want to like Ruth - to root for her - but at every opportunity to redeem herself or to gain some clarity or to show that is NOT turning into her dreadful mother - she disappoints.
The tragic ending is quite inevitable.
Her reaction to it all is again, a huge missed opportunity.
In the end I was far more curious how her friend Daisy and her brother Matt's tales continued.
Painfully insightful about the characters and human nature.
However, I usually gloss over 'challenging' books in favor of fluff.
The only time I end up tackling thoughtful modern literature is when I'm sick in bed; too sick to make it to the public library, with the kind of sinus congestion that makes reading downloaded books on my iphone unworkable.
Then I turn to the stack of books on my nightstand that have been so moving that my friends and relatives have felt compelled to give me copies.I lay, feverish and read these devastating critiques of human nature.Sometimes I wonder if friends give me these books because they were so disturbed by the content that they needed to share the burden and thus diminish it.It was a good book, well written.
My mother-in-law read this on Oprah's suggestion, then she asked me to read it so we could discuss it.
We both hated it.
There is no way the reader can accept the self-consciously literary narrator as Ruth, who tells us repeatedly how stupid and illiterate she is.
Likewise I found Hamilton's attempts to empathize with her characters both shallow and condescending.
Hamilton has used every literary device at her disposal, and she is clearly a skilled writer.
Unfortunately, her dislike or disrespect for her characters distances the reader, and the literary skill is wasted.
I loved this book!
It is written in a very unsophisticated tone, as compared to "A Map of the World." It is a wonderful book about a girl who makes her way in the world, completely unsupported by her family, with the exception of an aunt who lives out of town.
The small town in which the main character lives is very nostalgic to many of us who were raised in similar places.
The main character grows to become what she hates the most, her mother.
The ending is as dramatic as they come, with an episode that no one sees coming!!!
Gritty. But so is life. I ponder if I'd have handled my life any better if born into that setting. Probably not. We, who are born into a life of privilege and high functioning, assume that those who aren't somehow "deserved" it and can climb out if they wanted to. A quote I heard haunts me, "He was born on third base but thought he hit a triple." May I extend more kindness and grace to the Ruths I meet.
Očekuješ sve vreme neku tragediju, ali ne očekuješ zaista da se desi to što se desilo na kraju. Takođe, kotrljam očima na lažni moral i 'white trash' negativne komentare, jer zamislite, beli ljudi više ne smeju da imaju težak život i probleme, a ne smeju ni da budu loše osobe kada ih snađe nešto loše. Sve u svemu, jedna veoma iskrena, emotivna i lepo napisana knjiga.
These characters are her Aunt Sid- a choir director living in a university town in southern Illinois- and Ruth’s brother, Matthew, who somehow makes it out of the small, suffocating town, to become a successful scientist at an ivy league school, estranging himself from his family- “‘It is always strange, going home, facing people and a place with which I have nothing in common.
The two self-aware characters in this book, Matthew and Aunt Sid, act as a reminder to the reader- be thankful for your life.
