https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1891120.The_Jewel_in_the_Skull
Maybe not quite as good as Elric, from a "coldly logical" point of view, but I have a real soft spot for the Hawkmoon novels.
These novels (2 Hawkmoon series) could be called the culmination of the Eternal Champion Cycle.I stumbled on this book when I had very limited access to books.
It was probably 2 years later when I was back in a situation to have "ready access" to books stores.Did you ever stop and think what a marvelous place this is?
No wonder I love America!I ran down the Eternal Champion series...found Elric, Corum, and of course, Dorian Hawkmoon.
It's a 3 1/2 story but I gave it 4 stars as I felt some of the reviewers were too harsh.OVERALL FEELING: Evil Empire trying to take over an alternative European world; standard pulp swords and sorcery; easy read; somewhat good; few interesting points; some interesting characters; some are caricatures; flows well.MARKETING APPEAL: This story came about in the 60s, I believe, when pulp sci fi magazines were a big thing; I doubt it made a lot of money at first but the Eternal Champion, most notably Elric and Corum, were a popular series.
He just gave it multiple titles and filled in the rest like an anti-hero "Mad Libs".
Fortunately for me, I liked the book and can see it all as just variations of some desert I really enjoy.Here is an overview of "The Book".
Not because he wanted to, but because he had to.Meets himself/some ass named Jerry/both.Hero hunts for lost love, shoe or back scrubber.
Meets strange people and learns "unpleasant truths".
Finds a weapon that he eventually wishes he hadn't used.Kills/murders a butt-load of people in really horrid ways and with an arrogance that only the Eternal Champion could muster.
Kills major villain.
Inadvertently/tragically kills himself/love interest.
Seriously, what's not to love?
It felt more like I was reading through a long summary of the story rather than the story itself; each element was introduced and then resolved without much emotion in the writing at all.
Characters' moods and opinions changed however the story needed them to with little realism or explanation.
Problems tended to be resolved very simply and quickly, but rather than seeming to have "Mary Sue" characters, it felt more like the problems weren't that big of a deal to begin with.
The book could have been good, but it needed more life.
I can see why Moorcock is considered the father of modern fantasy.
This short book was a prelude to the Runestaff series in which Dorian Hawkmoon plays a primary role as the displaced ruler of Koln.
Hawkmoon is captured and tortured by the evil Meladius of Granbretan and then sent to the country of Kamarg where he is to spy on Count Brass and then kidnap his beautiful daughter, Yisselda.I enjoyed the elements of magic and technology and the references to the "Tragic Millennium".
This was a challenge book and I'm glad I read it.
I'll probably try to find others of the Runestaff books.
And again there's epic battles -- even more of them than in previous volumes -- some truly vicious bad guys, and heroic defenders standing against them.The evil empire of the future Great Britain, with its beast-masks, vast military, flying machines, time palaces and crystal bridges is more of Moorcock's early proto-steampunk, and comes alive wonderfully in the mind's eye, as does the castle in the Camarg that stands against them.
These four books as a whole are among my favorites of all of Moorcock's work, and I'm looking forward to spending most of the weekend lost in his world with them.
1960s pulp sword & sorcery by the guy who brought you Elric and Stormbringer (actually I gather Hawkmoon is part of Moorcock's Eternal Champion multiverse).
There's actually a strong female character!
Of course, Dorian Hawkmoon (the main character) still has to help her liberate her city from Granbretan and she offers to marry him after (but he's already betrothed).One nice technical note: I bought this from Kobo, but it was DRM-free at the request of the publisher!
They include a note saying you can make whatever backups you need, read it on any device you own but please be nice and don't give away pirate copies.
Now he is to be used against Count Brass, who has kept the Kamarg safe from the Empire and who has recently humiliated the Granbretan envoy, the sinister Baron Meliadus.
Sent to betray Count Brass, Hawkmoon has a black jewel implanted in his skull by Granbretan alchemists.
There are now two tasks facing Hawkmoon: to destroy the armies of the Dark Empire, now massed on the borders of Kamarg, and to find a more skilled sorcerer who can destroy the power of the jewel permanently.Exciting and atmospheric, The Jewel in the Skull is a fine introduction to Moorcock's first mature fantasy series.
Very, very average book, but I guess that's what you get when you read groundbreaking dark fantasy 43 years late.meh
We find mountain giants, huge flamingos that can be ridden, goats big as ponies, horned horses, bats titanic equipped with long arms and sharp claws, and other monstrous creatures.The protagonist of the story is Dorian Hawkmoon, Duke of Koln, who, after being defeated in war by the army of Great Britain, was imprisoned and underwent an operation by which the alchemists / scientists have the Black Empire inserted in front of the Bud Black, subduing to their will; on pain of death.
On his journey he teams up with Oladahn, a hair-covered midget half-giant who becomes his companion and is – as is pointed out in other works – another incarnation of the Eternal Champion’s companion, or possibly the Champion himself.There he thwarts the plans of the Granbretanians and the life within the jewel is destroyed.Moorcock’s abiding theme in his work is the eternal battle raging throughout the Multiverse between Order and Chaos.The forces of Chaos here are represented by the decadent and psychotic people of Granbretan, divided into ‘tribes’ or ‘clans’ defined by the beast-masks they wear.It’s a stultified jaded society composed of people afraid to show their true faces, ruled for the last two thousand years by King Huon from the depths of his throne globe.The two thousand year figure is significant since this was written around the time of Moorcock’s involvement with the British new wave, and also a time when the voice of youth was rebelling against the establishment.
Along with Julius Schwartz (as editor) and Gardner Fox (as writer) I cannot think of any other writer who has done so much to establish the concept of the multliverse as firmly in the fantasy/science fiction genre as Moorcock.But, where to start?
Of course Hawkmoon is a superb fighter, and has moral standards, but beyond that there is not much characterization of the main protagonist.I do wonder if Moorcock was having fun poking at Britain's politics as the evil empire is the decadent and deranged Granbretan.
By modern fantasy standards this is a brief read.

For some reason this was on my mind and I searched through my old books, finding the version with this cover.
Not a challenging read and fairly short, the characters were not really developed although their motivations were clear.
The cover and blurb makes a lot of the jewel in the skull and yet the problem it causes is solved so easily and so quickly it was a let-down.Nostalgia helped me enjoy it but I don't think that was a huge influence, I actually enjoyed reading this because it was an engaging and fast moving tale.
In some ways it was very typical male authored fantasty, male characters doing important things, with very few female characters (though I did like the Princess in the blue plate mail!) There were a little too many fights and battles for my taste and the characters were fairly one dimensional.
That said there were quite a lot of things I did like.
I really liked the post-apocalyptic fantasy setting.
I liked that Hawkmoon became traumatised into numbness in the beginning of the his part of the book.
While I enjoyed both this and the Beagle I'm remined why I don't read fantasy novels anymore!
A good book in the Moorcock catalog. I think it is one of the first in his eternal champion multiverse. It was recently re-released and this is that version. The battling in the middle got a little boring, but that's just me, but there were a lot of great ideas in the book. It was also little weird, having read the Count Brass series, which features many of the same characters and some references to the events in this series. So my interpretation of the characters were probably influenced by that book. The giant flying flamingo was awesome, though.
This was pretty good for an introductory story for the Runestaff series. I really like Michael Moorcock's books, Jewel In the Skull was a decent story but it didn't really grab me like The Eternal Champion or Elric of Melnibone did.
Another beginning saga for another Eternal Champion incarnation from Moorcock. Of course as usual the Eternal Champion is a long suffering tragic hero. I am sure that Moorcock has some Greek in him somewhere. Good read and story. Very recommended.
One of the first of Moorcock's early "thin" books I read. A great adventure yarn and a great example of lean and exciting storytelling.
I read this a long time ago.
I had heard so much about Michael Moorcock from friends.
The first of the Runestaff novels.
The Dark Empire is Granbretan (Ooh - do they mean Great Britain?) The good guy is Dorian Hawkmoon - Duke of Koln.
This book was read years ago and I was easily impressed by lots of things.
I like pulp novels sometimes.
I dislike classical novels sometimes.
Perhaps I would like other Michael Moorcock novels?
I would like to say that I have a couple of friends who enjoy the Dorian Hawkmoon/Runestaff stories immensely.
on one hand it took over three months to read thison the other I read damn near the whole thing out loud
I like that he's just like "fuck it, it suits me" at the end.dislike his riddiculously flat hetro romance.
Quite OK for this sort of science fantasy.
it feels more like a script for comics; somewhat enjoyable, but unoriginal and plain.
Fantasy legend Michael Moorcock won hundreds of thousands of readers with his vast and imaginative multiverse, in which Law and Chaos wage war through endless alternative universes, struggling over the fundamental rules of existence.  Moorcock's heroes of the multiverse have been lauded as some of the most influential characters in fantasy. Among the Eternal Champions, Dorian Hawkmoon is one of the most loved. In the far future, Hawkmoon is pulled unwillingly into a war that will eventually pit
In the far future, Hawkmoon is pulled unwillingly into a war that will eventually pit him against the ruthless Baron Meliadus and the armies of the Dark Empire.
Dorian Hawkmoon, the last Duke of Koln, swore to destroy the Dark Empire of Granbretan.
But in the city of Kamarang, Hawkmoon discovers the power inside him to overcome any control, and his vengeance against the Dark Empire is filled with an unrelenting fury.
This classic sword and sorcery novel from 1967 finds a shattered future Europe recovering from the Tragic Millennium spent under the control of the overtly evil Dark Empire of Granbretan.
Interesting setting that could become a masterpiece, but the novel happens to be a potboiler.
The Novel begins with Lord Brass, but the protagonist happens to be Hawkmoon who is introduced at page 30 or 40 /i can't remember the exact page/.
It doesn't work and this is the reason for a war between Lord Brass and the Empire.
The characters are omni powerfull, yet they spent time in plotting against and unbeatable empire army, which happens to be so easy to easily deafeated with none/or minumum casualties.I'm currently reading this and soom im gonna finish it.
First of a series, this fantasy story is about Count Brass, a man who runs the small kingdom of Kamarg, in what we know as southern France.
It will let Granbretan see everything Hawkmoon sees, and it can be used to destroy Hawkmoon's mind, if necessary.The people of Castle Brass are able to temporarily neutralize the black jewel, rendering it useless to Granbretan.
A large force is sent from Granbretan, to take care of Hawkmoon and Castle Brass, once and for all.
When he arrives, Hawkmoon finds himself in the middle of a civil war brought about by an attack from Granbretan and Meliadus.This one is really good.
Dorian Hawkmoon, our hero, has that typical Moorcock fatalism, but unlike Elric or Erekosë he doesn't really fight it.
This had less soul-searching than the Moorcock I've read so far.
I like the departure from Moorcock's usual fighting-your-fate reluctant champions, while still retaining the quick and enjoyable pulp novel feel.
While he plays the role of Hawkmoon's patron in this book, I know there's a whole trilogy centered around him down the road, and I can't wait to read more about him in the next Hawkmoon volume.
Bought this book aeons ago and have just re-read it as part of the Runestaff sequence.
Some note it is slight compared with the monsters you can find in the shops but it works as part of a sequence.
Had tried to revisit these type of books after a long interregnum and such was the fun I had likely makes me eager to carve my way into some more.
Funnily enough it was in part due to our discussing reading GoT that I pulled this book down off the overstuffed back shelf.
In questo romanzo ho riscontrato la stessa scrittura pigra che mi aveva negativamente impressionato quando lessi Elric.
Come in Elric la trama è telegrafata, i personaggi sono piatti e privi di personalità ben definite, e i cliché sono all'ordine del giorno, ma qui, per lo meno, ho avuto l'impressione che qualcosa di salvabile ci fosse.
Come faccia Elric a essere un cult e Moorckck un pilastro della narrativa di genere continua a sfuggirmi, ma per lo meno non ho chiuso a metà questo libro con una sbuffata e un'alzata di spalle (figurativamente, visto che ne ho letta una copia digitale).
