https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79630.Greek_Myths
She formats it so you can look up the god you would like to read about and then you can find stories of the god/goddess.
The sections themselves are easy to read which keeps you interested and wanting more.
This section goes into great depth of the life of Hercules.
Each god has at least one story of the adventures in their life.
Although there is that small problem it is still an excellent book that I would recommend to anyone who likes Greek Mythology and wants to refresh their memory.
The child in me loved the illustrations that were peppered throughout this book and the adult in me loved the complex stories, emotions, struggles and ideas that are collected here. I adore Greek mythology, and this book had several stories I had already read, but also many new ones. This is a YAF book, so the language is simple and easy to understand and read. I liked the book and would recommend it to my fellow Greek myth dorks.
It was a good read! This author is a great story-teller, so you will like it even if your not into Greek mythology. She makes the myths better, even after I have read them a few times over. Very easy going and the only bad thing was that it didn't have all of the myths. I had to read this for school and it has been one of the best books. :)
I liked the way this book was written. It was a good fast read that kept the stories interesting. There are lots of the more familiar myths covered (i.e. Theseus, Hercules, Midas and the like), plus a few that I don't remember having read about before (i.e. Phaethon, Arachne, and Tithonus).
Read this with my daughters as it was a little more kid-friendly. Great book!
Love...Love...Will always love this book. Gave me so much information about the myths that I was trying to find out about.
I have always liked Greek Myths so Of course I loved this book
I have been looking for a detailed book of Greek mythology and this is one! It would have gotten five stars but some of the details are different than the stories I remember reading as a child - such as the story of Echo, who pines after Narcissus, and the story of Heracles, the son of Zeus (in this book he is not????). I would recommend this book to anyone who is a fan of Greek mythology, but who are not sticklers for the classic tellings of the stories.
I recommend it.
Dating back to 1949, “Hercules & Other Tales From Greek Myths” was the first 'Scholastic Book' by Olivia E.
She specialized in summarizing history for children, successfully educating them in subjects swept under the carpet.In one night, Olivia's brevity has me exceedingly more richly-versed in Greek lore than ever before.
The months the daughter can live on Earth, result in joy for their family and growth for all in spring.Unpleasant as these stories can be, however, they are the origins of familiar terminology.
Mythological or not, it is wise to know where concepts come from because a trace of the Greeks remain in our culture to this day.
Each chapter was a different story from ancient Greek culture.
It's set in ancient Greece but the time and place of the story varies between chapters as there is a large, diverse amount of characters including Major gods, minor gods, nymphs, heroes and general humans.Personally, I enjoyed this book because I already have a liking for Greek and Roman Mythology.
I also like this particular type of book setup, where you can never get bored because each chapter is it's own entertaining and descriptive story.
I enjoyed reading this book and really liked that Hercules could always do the tasks that the king told him to do, even if they were so difficult that the king thought he could get rid of Hercules through them.
If you like reading fantasy books, this is a good one for you.
HGI think the book Hercules is a good book because it talks about greek myths and heroes who saved the day.
My favorite myth was the myth of Hercules because I liked to read about how he accomplished his 12 labors that the king ordered him.
If you like myths then I would consider reading this book.
There is a reason these myths are still so popular: they are satisfying.
It's not just more sober, it is self-authenticating as the Word of the God who is not silent.But these tales are so woven through Western literature, culture and our collective memory that they need to be known.
They're even artistically beautiful at times.
And since these gods are dead and buried in ancient history there is no fear that someone reading them will suddenly be tempted to bow down to Hera again.
Indeed, they are part of the gift of the Greeks that God gaven the Church--to be used artistically.Love the myths and these were told well.
Greek myths is a good book to read.
I like this book because I like myths stories.
Before I read this book, I once watched a cartoon which called Greek myths.
But this is the first time that I read a book about Greek myths.
Greek myths is a classic originals.
This is one of the reasons I like it.The English language in this book is not very difficult and there are many short stories in this book, it’s easy to read it.
If there are more Greek myths, I will continue to read the series.
This was a great introduction to the Greek myths. Its full of short stories about the Greek Gods and heroes that can either be read in succession or pick out your favorites.Perfect for kids and adults alike, its fun and easy to read and has cool illustrations. It not only has those myths that are widely known such as Hades and Persephone explaining why the seasons change but also lesser known myths such as when Hermes was a baby.If you love Greek mythology you should pick this one up. This is one that kids of all ages will definitely enjoy.
Greek Myths is a great collection of stories of the Greek Gods. This book or parts of the book could be used in the study of ancient Greece to supplement the Social Studies unit. Or if students are doing a genre study this could be used in the broad category of "traditional tales" stories, passed down for generations. Additionally, these stories all teach a lesson or moral so students could create their own modern myth that teachers a simular lesson in current times.
I remember reading this back when I was in elementary school. The stories were easy to understand for me and the pictures were marvelous. For me it didn't have enough stories to my liking. I mean the stories are pretty much in order my favorite stories are the ones about the heroes of mythology and it contained a few of those. Either way it is a good book if you'd like to get in to mythology.
I loved this book as a child, and wanted to re-read it. There is still something pleasantly simple yet adventuresome in Coolidge's (admittedly watered-down) telling of these ancient stories. It reminded me of many 5th grade days.
My first year of school, age five, we learned to read. We were then allowed to visit the school's very small library and choose a book to read. This was the book I chose, and read. This is the book that started me on my life of reading.
I liked the book, I just like others better. Namely, D'aulaires Greek Myths, Percy Jackson's Greek Myths, and Percy Jackson's Greek Heroes. If you want an understanding of Greek myths and gods, this works, but others are just as good, and they will make you love the myths and find them exciting!
popsugar reading challenge mythology and read Greek Myths hadn't studied them in a while so I thought I would get this book was really good for beginners and for anyone who needed to relearn it is a kids book but so what
I enjoyed the stories of the Greek Myths. Very intriguing and tied me in fast. I always liked some of the Greek Myth stories, and I am happy I found a book entirely dedicated to them.
Could use a few more myths
I read this when I was ten years old. A great way to be introduced to the Greek myths.
This book is GREAT for people interested in mythology. Full of inspiring stories and lots of details. This book is FULL of adventure!
We used this book during our Ancient History and Literature year. The stories are easy enough for late elementary and middle school aged children.
It is a pretty good book but some of it has some pretty creepy stuff in it.
Didn't know many of the myths
Only read a few of the myths
Excellent introduction to some of the more famous Greek myths. I learned more than I thought in a book intended for kids. Great addition to our homeschool curriculum.
