https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87202.The_Edge_of_Sadness
The overarching mystery of the novel is why does Charlie—who never does anything to no avail—suddenly decide to start calling on Father Hugh, reminiscing about his so-called friendship with Hugh's long-dead father, who in fact knew Charlie for exactly what he was, a shrewd and self-motivated businessman who never did an unselfish act in his life?
But as the story unfolds and we go deeper and deeper into the Carmody family, we sense the damage old Charlie has been wreaking, not only on his four adult children but on ‘friends’, clients, business associates and the city as a whole.Not that I did it, but if you’re one of those who do, even reading the last page and/or chapter won’t solve the mystery, although it is solved, I promise.
If it weren't for the Cardinal's personal love for the church (he attended it as a child), there's no way that this Parish would continue to exist.Throughout the course of the book, the Priest begins to get in touch with people from his past, who know about his drinking problem.
In summation : If you're me and you want to laugh for like 10,000 hours, you should read this hilarious and ridiculous book.P.S. I should really explain a thing or two more in regard to why other people wouldn't find this funny.
It's like legitimately my favourite book of all time and I have no idea why.
I'm not a Catholic or even religious in anyway, but somehow this book just resonated with me.
The writing is in the style of that beautiful, over the top prose that I adore.
It's beautiful, it made me cry and laugh and just feel all the feels.
It's not something that I would recommend, however, as I doubt many would feel the same way I do about it.“For what is really dreadful, what I find genuinely frightening, is this spreading, endless despair, hanging low like a blanket, never lifting, the fatal slow smog of the spirit.”
You know how I always rant about the non-literary quality of christian fiction?
I found the novel I've always been wanting to read.The book tells the story of a fallen Catholic Priest, fallen into alcoholism after his father died.
This is his story of recovery and ministry, an exploration of how he fell into sin, and a journey of how he came back.
It is also the story of his childhood family friends, the Carmodys.
The Carmodys are a sprawling, Irish-Catholic family living in Boston with quirky temperaments and sometimes strange behaviors.The novel has a true literary nature, with philosophical moments, beautiful descriptions, and lengthy sentences.
The challenges of priesthood became obvious: “How do you talk about God Almighty to a layer cake?”  The Edge of Sadness is a somber story about a failing middle-aged priest in an unnamed New England port city and his relationship with members of the prominent Carmody family.
The story began with Father Hugh Kennedy being invited to Charlie Carmody’s 82nd birthday party.
Charlie's lament when he summoned Father Hugh to his death bed was heartbreaking, "I hate to go.
Also, colorful Charlie Carmody, from his father’s generation, who revels in flawed reminiscences:‘…it was never hard for me to watch and listen as this little, incredibly lively old man bounded about the rectory reception room, bubbling out his exuberant monologues, each one a virtuoso’s grab bag of gossip, extravagant self-praise, spurious compliments to me, crocodile tears, unlikely reports of kindly deeds performed, and - above all – eloquent recollections of the vital, parochial, picturesque, and vanished world in which he and my father had been young…’ How poignantly he captures a feeling, touches a nerve; Here O’Connor mentions a moment which will undoubtedly come to most of us: ‘An old priest who was dying, one of the saintliest men I have ever known, one of those who had the greatest reason to expect God’s favor, many years ago surprised me, by telling me with a little smile, that now that he was going, he wanted desperately to stay.
A soft and slow-to-unfold story. A gentle, drowsy novel with great character description, comprised primarily of well-written dialogue that made characters vivid. I'm not sure I like this book, but I'm glad to have read it.
If the edge of sadness is melancholy, then this might be an aptly-titled book, but I think the title is its primary flaw.
This engaging window on a moment in time and a particular culture kept me reading, but the story itself runs deeper, into the areas of love, forgiveness, growing old, and finding meaning in life.
This scene alone would have made the book memorable, but what O'Connor did best was hint at the spiritual lives of his characters in authentic ways.
Wow...this was just exactly my sort of book and I'm so smashed full of love for it that I'm having a hard time talking about it coherently.
All the characters are so so real, flawed but lovable (or hate-able) and presented in just the way that life presents you with people.
It explores some of those deep questions of life that I often feel alone in pondering, but I've found a friend in this book.
If ever you find yourself in the mood for some deep thought or a contemplative character study, this just might be the ticket.
I seem to like books with really upbeat titles. This is the story of an alcoholic priest who returns home after being away for years drying out. There is nothing spectacular that happens here — no car chases, not illicit affairs. Just the simple story of man getting his bearings once again among the people he used to know. It is one of the few book I've read in the past few years that I truly loved.
This is a achingly beautiful book. It is hard to describe because not much external "action" occurs but the movement of the heart is remarkable. The story of Father Hugh Kennedy, a recovering alcoholic, and his reconnecting with the Carmodys is wonderfully told. O'Connor has a gift of understanding prayer, loneliness, despair, hope, faith. I am not doing this book justice. It is so beautiful. It will stick with me for a long time.
The Edge of Sadness focuses much more on the inner workings of a family and on an iconic man who sat at the head of the table, a larger than life character named Charlie Carmody, a self-made businessman with a large holding in real-estate & who it was echoed was "as fine a man as ever robbed the helpless." Charlie's family seem to reside in his accepted glow of his prosperity but also suffer in his shadow of his self-centered attitudes about life, a perhaps familiar story of children not being able or even permitted to measure up to their prosperous father, including a son named John, lifelong friend of Hugh Kennedy, who also decides to be a priest but who is never able to be a caring figure to his parishioners.
The Edge of Sadness  is unlike any book about "the church" I've ever read (I could say Christianity or Catholicism -- but I mean inside the life of the local congregation, and even more specifically the interior life of the priest). The author tells about a six month slice of life with a depth of reflection on human nature that is unusual in any novel. O'Connor has a sharp eye for our flaws, and yet he is, I think, forgiving of the thousand cruelties of our relationships with those who are clos
But what I felt that both men --as Christian spiritual leaders -- seemed to totally lack was awe and awareness of the grace of God. Even in conversation with a dying man, instead of pointing him to the love and mercy of God displayed in Christ, Father Hugh launches into an appalling "don't spoil your clean conscience with more sins before you die" exhortation.
I don't believe that what I've said is a "spoiler" because there's so much more to the book than my reaction to this scene, and similar feelings about Father John and Father Hugh's last conversation.
The eighty-something Charlie Carmody is an unforgettable character, as is his son John and the narrator Father Hugh.
(Even Father Hugh's young and slightly pompous curate, who provides gentle comic relief, is a surprisingly complex character.) This is a book about the inner life of a priest, yes, but it's also about our struggles to connect with each other and to look honestly at the barriers we put between ourselves and the world.
It's ultimately a hopeful novel, too, which was nice (it could have gone either way.)It's not a major part of the plot, but the story of the unknown man who would show up to pray in the church from time to time moved me very much.
This book has the distinction of having a character just like my grandpa. The story revolves around an often struggling priest who is very close to the Carmody family. The family is much like mine and the biggest character of all was a near carbon copy of my grandpa. 3.5 stars
It’s happening to you every minute of the day, and you almost never give it a thought; then, one day, you catch a glimpse of an old friend, or you hear a phrase from an old song, or your eye falls on a solitary sentence in the daily paper, and suddenly without being able to do a thing in the world about it, you seem to be for a moment outside your own skin taking one good long look at yourself, exactly as you stand exactly as you are, And at this point, no matter who you are, or what you believe in or what you may be, it sometimes becomes a little hard to give three cheers for the inevitable….”The Slow LeakActually, crime, sensation, violence are comparatively rare in a place like this (an urban slum); here life – or the end of life – tends to become a matter of the slow leak rather than the explosion.
Edwin O'Connor's book, The Edge of Sadness won the Pulitzer prize in 1962. The story is about a man of the clergy, Hugh Kennedy, and his journey to find his place in the church and how relationships when he was a boy affect his journey. I liked the writing style of the author in that he provides a very introspective view of the main characters. I give this book 4 stars.
I wasn't really expecting to like this, it being about the Catholic Church and all, but I did. The author does a good job of describing his character's feelings, and I actually related to father Kennedy (I know that's weird). It was something about being Irish-American and relating to the neuroses of an Irish family.
His oldest daughter , Mary ,devoted & humble servant to her Father and Helen maybe not to happy in her marriage but the grandchildren make up for it.We learn that after 15 happy years as a curate at St Raymond's ,than transferd to St Stevens as Pastor and then his fall from grace and sent by the Bisop to a place called the Cenacel in Arazona ,for Prests who have taken to drink.Thru out the novel Kennedy ( and the reader) keeps trying to find out why Charlie has pulled him back to the Carmody family and old associations,everything he knows about Charley tells him it can't be a good thing.This novel won the Pulitzer prize for fiction in 1962 , but has been out of print for sometime until 2004 when the Loyola press ( a Jesuit Ministry) brought reprinted it for their classics series.Although all of the main charters in the story are both Catholic and Irish and their is much in the book about Parish life (at that time) I don't believe you have to be either to deeply touched by this beautiful story.
His one curate, Father Danowski, often to Father Hugh’s chagrin and sometimes his delight, is an eternal and energetic optimist, always trusting that new life will be breathed into Old Saint Paul’s, returning the parish to it’s glory days.At 640 pages, the novel is a leisurely drive in the country, as Edwin O’Connor carefully unfolds the stories of the tricky relationships between the Carmody’s, the reasons for Father Hugh’s fall from grace and his assignment at Old Saint Paul’s, as well as the inner life of a priest.
More of a psychosocial study than a plot driven story.
This is a book which shines, not for clever plots or elegant writing, but it resonates.
I could not understand what the deal was with Helen until the end when she revealed her past feelings for Hugh.
After years of marriage and already becoming a grandmother, it is curious why she should now seek some sort of security in Hugh's affirmation of reciprocal feelings for her.
The plot twist was clever, ironic and spiced up the story as it reached the end.
Like other readers I was surprised that a novel with such a melancholy premise was often so funny.
A recovering-alcoholic priest, Hugh is drawn into the circle of the wealthy Carmodys, a family he has known from childhood.
Their patriarch, "Old Charlie, " takes a sudden interest in Hugh and his physically crumbling parish, Old St. Paul's.
In questioning Charlie's intentions, and rekindling his relationships with the Carmody children, particularly Helen and fellow priest John, Father Hugh also re-evaluates old memories and his dedication to his calling.
There is no "twist" as there would likely be if this novel were written today.
The Edge of Sadness is a story about Boston Irish Catholics, and centers around the first person narrator's view of his life as a priest and his lifelong relationship with a quirky Irish family.
I recognized much of my own family in the author's descriptions of what it means to be, well, from Boston, Irish, and Catholic.
I am a plot driven reader, though: I like for things to happen, and in this book--as well written as it is--not much does happen.
A person who I like and admire at great deal gave me this book to read.
O'Connor's novel went from winning the Pulitzer Prize to going out of print.
In the excellent introduction, the writer feels it lost its relevance as the pre-Vatican II way of life for Catholics had disappeared.
And this is a thoroughly Catholic novel taking a look at priests and their humanity without making them evil.
At the outset of the novel he is returning to serving a parish and reacquainting himself with friends.
He is likable, caring, self-critical, and the kind of priest we still want to today.
This may have lost some relevance for people because of the timing, but Godliness knows no time period.
O'Connor has that skill that a certain few writers have, his writing flows smoothly.
I found that I could read this book and not notice that there is almost no plot, no action, no romance, in fact you can not notice that you are reading at all because he spins characters with so much personality that you not only feel like you know them, but you find yourself content to sit and visit with them all day.
And I found myself surprised that O Connor was not himself a priest like the narrator of the story.
One of the best novels I've ever read.
(It didn't win the 1961 Pulitzer Prize for nothing!) Boston priest Fr. Hugh Kennedy's reflection on how his world is so different from that of his immigrant-born father's era, and from that of his twenty-five-year-old curate, is perhaps the best meditation I've ever encountered on the subject of how difficult it is to communicate across the generations.
The novel's depiction of how each of its characters struggles with depression (whence the title) makes this a worthwhile read even for those not already intrigued by the other subject matter.


Another re-reading of a book I loved about 45 years ago.
It is still a nice book, but it didn't have the impact it had the first time around.
I would recommend it, but I'm not sure to whom.
It is very slow and introspective.
I can't think of another modern book like it.
The modest story-line moves carefully through reflection after reflection, but it is funny about occurrences that don't readily lend themselves to humor - life's dissappointments, old age, death.
I guess it is a reflection about life that doesn't turn out the way you expect.
I like the book.
It was ok. I didn't like the ending or the pacing, but it was on a subject I've never read about before, which I liked.
