https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/315345.Sir_Percy_Leads_the_Band
It was exciting with a number of adventures and rescues.I really enjoyed seeing more interaction between The Scarlet Pimpernel and his merry men.
Unlike I Will Repay (I believe that is the right one) he does not have a detectable foreign accent although his comrades do, but apparently he does speak French with a precision that may have aroused suspicion had the author not emphasized that the others were too stupid to suspect anything.
Speaking of comrades, this is the second book which has a traitor in the League.
Not as good as the original, but still good. I want to see Percy and Marguerite together.
Okay all you Scarlet Pimpernel fans out there-- The sequels to The Scarlet Pimpernel are not what I had hoped them to be--purely adventure stories--rather they do have adventure and daring escapes intertwined with a love story.
Not to say Orczy is not creative and she is very clever in her daring escapes, but do not expect any deep themes within the pages.
If you are a true die hard Scarlet Pimpernel fan then you will love this installment, but do not seek for the answers to the universe amongst its pages.
This is one of many Scarlet Pimpernel sequels. It's chronologically the one after Scarlet Pimpernel, though it was written 9th (I think). I was actually a bit disappointed. A lot of what I loved about Scarlet Pimpernel was missing from this book. I like the adventure part and Percy's rescues but this book was just boring. I'm not sure if I'll continue on with any S.P. sequels. The original is definitely worth reading but so far, I'm not impressed with the sequels.
I liked the plot and I liked how you got to know more characters in the League, but I wish that Marguerite had been in there more than a mention once or twice. I also liked that it followed other characters besides just Sir Percy and Marguerite.
Thoroughly enjoyable. In many ways just "more of the same"--the same being Sir Percy Being Awesome and Hilarious While Saving Everyone. And if you, like me, enjoy that sort of thing...
Just didn't live up to the original or even to the other one in the series I've read.
Sir Percy Leads the Band is another adventure in preventing the French revolutionists from losing their heads.
There is a convoluted love triangle and an overly adept hero but the story rolls on quite nicely.
Though the story is about Sir Percy, it would be difficult to list him as the protagonist.
The third person narrative frequently, almost intentionally doesn't follow Sir Percy.
Instead the narrative surrounds this hero in a manner not dissimilar from his band of follows, always present yet somehow a little detached.
Another charming adventure with Sir Percy...Seemed maybe more simplistic than other tales, and the repeated comparison of Devinne to Judas was annoying. Also disappointed that we did not get to see Pradel and Cecile come to a loving understanding (since Cecile did not seem to actually be in love with Pradel)-- Instead, we learn after the fact that they got married and lived happily ever after despite Cecile's obvious hesitation due to their class differences and not really knowing each other at all! Still, an enjoyable read.
Orczy has done it again! This is the perfect sequel to the Scarlet Pimpernel. After the character, his identity, and his cleverness are introduced in the first book, this book gives the reader an in depth look at multiple missions carried out by The Scarlet Pimpernel and his loyal followers. In some ways, not as intense, but definitely not boring. Even though the Pimpernel's sneaky ways can be expected, they remain entertaining thanks to Orczy's writing. What is even more impressive is the fact that this was written over a hundred years after the time period it is set in.
This sequel to "The Scarlet Pimpernel" gets more and more exciting as the story goes on! It touches on themes like honor, unrequited love, treachery, and forgiveness. I didn't think it was quite as well done as the first book...hence the four stars...but it's definitely worth reading!
I adore the Scarlett pimpernel and was shocked there were several sequels I never knew about...well now I know why. Not nearly as amazing as the first.
Totally fun and entertaining sequel to The Scarlet Pimpernel. Not nearly as good, but fun never the less.
I do love this book, but it lacks the romance of the first.
Another great adventure from Baroness Orczy. Such fun!
It's St. John Devinne, a member of the band, tho' not one of the 'regulars,' who has the effrontery to put his judgment up against Percy's, and eventually betrays the band actively (because as with Armand in Eldorado, he is in love).
Devinne, in some way I cannot quite define, is perceived to have gone one step further than Armand (whose name is not mentioned in this book), and is not received back into grace.
There is a curious and lamentable tension between Blakeney's usual almost supernaturally perfect reading of events and men and his patent failure to anticipate Devinne's defection.

The time I spent reading this book was time well spent: it was quick-paced, full of adventure, and it gave some insights about the workings of the mind of Sir Percy Blakeney.
We also get to meet some new members of the league, which is also good.I can understand the lack of Marguerite, to a point, but I'm not of fan of the way she is presented when we do see her; as a mournful wife sitting alone in her empty house, thinking of nothing but her husband and praying for his return.
A solid story - though not nearly as good as the original The Scarlet Pimpernel. I loved the moments with Sir Percy and his men - you can see a bit more of his character and leadership abilities.Sadly, the book didn't feature Marguerite, though Percy thinks of her like two times and she is mentioned in the epilogue. However, there is a (rather short) appearance by Chauvelin, the villain from the first novel.
Sir Percy saves the day again and he does it like no other. I thoroughly enjoy the balance of mystery and comedy. The rescues performed by Percy and his band of followers are always enthralling and entertaining. While those being rescued are in tragic situations, I love that Percy is always happy and laughing in the face of danger. I was slightly disappointed because I had hoped that in the second Scarlet Pimpernel Percy and Marguerite would work together in their endeavors to save those being wronged, but Marguerite was hardly mentioned in this book.
Emmuska Orczy did it again. You'd think that around now I'd be getting sick of the books but I still like them. There are certain aspects of the book that I am thinking I might need a respite from, but I keep trudging on! This book is number four if you are reading in chronological order. I find the order of the books from the following website: http://www.blakeneymanor.com/series.html also Wikipedia has a good order too. Now on to the next one that I was able to get from the library! It is book 7 unfortunately. Oh well!
I chose this as my first Scarlet Pimpernel sequel because it's set next after the original book. Let's just say lightning didn't strike twice in the same place. The writing was pretty bad, the plot wasn't gripping, and it was hard to care about the random new characters. Orczy does a better job at getting into the heads of female characters than male characters, which is a problem in a book like this where there's no Marguerite but lots of League members.
I love the Scarlet Pimpernel books. This was a relatively low key one, taking place mostly outside Paris and away from the sharpest chaos of the Revolution. Even Chauvelin's appearance was almost token. But still, it was an interesting adventure, focusing more on feeling and how love and infatuation can lead to difficult choices.Plus it was my first go-round with the Kindle, and it was a delight to read.
I love this book. Reading it has been a fun and reckless ride. I totally loved to see more of the league and to see the wide bert give by Sir Percy to our friend Chambering haha.The whole book was soo soo good! And I totally swooned over the look between Marguerite and Piercy in the epilogue *fans herself*Can we resurrect the baroness and have more books about the demmed elusive scarlet pimpernel please? :)
On the tails of the first three in the series, this one fell flat. It was missing the thrilling twist at the end that leaves you frantically reading through the night to find out if what appears has happened could really be true. While they all seem to start off rather slowly, but gather speed, this one never really picked up any steam. I was disappointed enough that i'll save the next book for a later date
I liked this book, although I think it is actually my least favorite of the four Pimpernel books I've read. My favorite moments are those when we are privy to the meetings of the Pimpernel's League. I absolutely adore Sir Percy, and I love the devotion (most of) his League has for him. There is a sense of adventure in the air throughout this book, and I loved it.
I enjoyed this sequel to the Scarlet Pimpernel - I just discovered that there are many books in the series. I wish we heard more of Sir Percy and Marguerite in this book, but I guess that story already played out in the first book.
Another great story. The focus this time was not really Percy - he was sort of on the periphery. Still present, still pulling strings, but not the narrative focus. This was the story of Percy's betrayal by a member of the League. Loved it.
It just didn't hold me as much as the original Scarlett pimpernel. I loved to follow the strong relationship present in the first and how the emotions changed as the couple got to know one another better. The second, however, is as many readers have suggested-really for the die hard pimpernel fans!
Really enjoyed it. Not as great as the first one, but Scarlet Pimpernel is one of my all-time favorites so it's hard to top that.
