https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16981.Invisible_Man
Full disclosure: I wrote my master's thesis on Ellison's novel because I thought the first time that I read it that it is one of the most significant pieces of literature from the 20th century.
Now that I teach it in my AP English class, I've reread it many times, and I'm more convinced than ever that if you are only going to read one book in your life, it should be this one.
The last lines of the book are haunting and almost hopeful through the despair.
It has taken a second reading for me to truly process the content of this book, and still I can’t exactly say I understand all the symbolism.
We see the maturing process of the narrator as he goes from being an innocent boy to one who begins to question his identity but can’t seem to reconcile it with his role as a black man in (racist) 1950s America.
And like any coming-of-age story, there is a lot of interior and external conflict.It’s hard to really summarize this book because so much goes on.
“When I discover who I am, I’ll be free.” Reading "Invisible Man" during a visit to New York was a deeply touching experience.
The physical presence of New York life enhanced the reading, and the city added flavour and sound to the story.
And being a stranger in New York myself, I turned into an invisible woman, soaking in the atmosphere without being noticed.Following the successes and misfortunes of the narrator, this novel shapes the identity of the reader as well.
I won't return to New York for the time being.
Invisible Man is an extremely well written and intelligent novel full of passion, fire and energy: it’s such a force to be reckoned with in the literary world, and not one to be taken lightly. “I am invisible, understand, simply because people refuse to see me. Like the bodiless heads you see sometimes in circus sideshows, it is as though I have been surrounded by mirrors of hard, distorting glass. When they approach me they see only my surroundings, themselves or figments of their imagination,
Invisible Man is an extremely well written and intelligent novel full of passion, fire and energy: it’s such a force to be reckoned with in the literary world, and not one to be taken lightly.
This isn’t just about the postcolonial state of slavery and hybrid identity in the face of a supposed freedom from the shackles that bound the blacks to their masters; this is about American society at large: it’s about the world at large.
The narrator enters many different communities and societies, each of which impose an idea upon him about the way in which blacks should behave.
Most capital-G Great books can be a grim trudge, like doing homework. Invisible Man is one of the few Great books that's also relentlessly, unapologetically entertaining, full of brawls, explosions, double-crosses, and the exuberant mad. As a meditation on race, it's as fresh as if it had been first published yesterday. One of the most essential American novels ever written and only the best of the best can stand alongside it: Grapes of Wrath, Huckleberry Finn, To Kill A Mockingbird, True Grit.
The writing is hypnotic in Invisible Man and the dread all-pervasive. Every time I sat down to read a bit more, I was sucked into the prose, even though it made me deeply uneasy and worried about what was going to happen next.It is stark, it is poetic, it is difficult, and it is rewarding. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Call me, since I have a theory and a concept, a "thinker-tinker." Only a few protagonists can bind you, hands and feet, to their inner thoughts like this narrator can; only a few chosen writers can combine dramatic dialogue with self-exploratory meanderings and controlled prose that vividly reveals the life of one black man in America.
Consider the metaphorical language Fitzgerald dazzles us with in The Great Gatsby; think about the clairvoyance of George Orwell in 1984,how he produced scripted scenes that came to life years later; remember the racial debate in William Styron's Sophie's Choice,recall the language and riveting voice of Toni Morrison's main character in Home,and you will have considered this novel.
If I were making a list of the 10 Best Novels About America, this would be at the top.*I first read Invisible Man in a college literature course, and my 19-year-old self liked it, but rereading it now was a really powerful experience.
A good example is a famous early scene known as the "Battle Royal." Our narrator, who was a high school student at the time, was tricked into a boxing match, fighting other young black men, all of whom are blindfolded.
I read this for a college seminar African American History of the 1930s and 1940s.
It was quite an interesting class as the demographics were literally half African American and half Caucasian, thus spurring provocative discussions.
Our professor had us read Ellison's masterpiece and even though I do not remember it in its entirety, I remember the protagonist meeting Booker T Washington, George Washington Carver, discussing the talented tenth and black universities, the back to Africa movement, etc.
All in all, Invisible Man stands out as one of the top three books I read in college and I will have to reread it when I have the time.
It's more of a send a message to the reader type classic.First published in 1953, an unnamed narrator and INVISIBLE MAN tells his life stories of fear, or maybe uncertainty is a better word of his place in the world.
As a young and very naive black student, he proceeds through his tumultuous life while constantly haunted by his grandfather's dying words.The beginning chapters share how (OMG!) he was treated in a Harlem basement just prior to being awarded a "scholarship to a state college for Negroes" for his important and memorable high school speech, but memorable for me was how he ever redelivered the speech in the horrific condition he was in at the time.Our protagonist is a young man who tries to do everything according to the rules, but disaster always seems to follow him around causing chaos and big trouble.
what i found most interesting, however, is that despite having lived another forty-two years, ellison never published another novel.
from wikipedia:In 1967, Ellison experienced a major house fire at his home in Plainfield, Massachusetts, in which he claimed 300 pages of his second novel manuscript were lost.
This assertion is disproved in the 2007 biography of Ellison by Arnold Rampersand… …Ellison ultimately wrote over 2000 pages of this second novel, most of them by 1959.
When they approach me they see only my surroundings, themselves or figments of their imagination, indeed, everything and anything except me.” Part a madman's ramble stream of consciousness, part a touching story of a confused young black man struggling with racial identity, Invisible Man is an important American classic.
I am so glad I decided to listen to this book instead of reading it because the whole experience was enhanced by the wonderful narration.
Highly recommended although I prefer Black Boy as a classic on race in US.
I put off reading this book for years, intimidated by its length and its venomous reputation.
In the US soon post-Obama, we have definitely moved forward superficially in the battle for equality and yet, Ferguson happened, Trump is happening and racism is still ever-present - rather than bodies hanging from trees from the Invisible Man's past, we are still in the car burning and rioting of the Invisible Man's "present" and have not moved on.
This book made me once again interrogate my own feelings on racism and challenge my "idées reçus".
It suffers from an inability to actually characterize anyone beyond the protagonist.
Which is to say that it is a heavy-handed, young, stereotype filled book.Yes, it is a worthy historical object.
The prose is nothing special, the dialect isn't handled with particular grace, it has an irritating tendency to state the obvious and to self-interpret and the author actually takes the time to call attention to the fact that he is choosing to rant at you for the last five pages--a total admission of weakness.I am, however, giving it two stars in the "it was okay" sort of fashion.
It does have a lot to say about racism but does so without finger pointing or animosity, displaying it in all its forms, from the ultra-degrading smoker scene in chapter two to the ill-conceived gaffs by well-meaning acquaintances and Brother Jack’s imperious “The brother does not sing!” In places it felt as if no page was without some subtle, or unsubtle, slight being rendered to the point where I thought of the old torture called death by a thousand cuts.While no assessment of the black experience in America would be complete without a discussion of racism, Invisible Man is so much more than that.
A hard book to review because its subject is so powerful and it's story so important that to criticise it would seem wrong. So I'll simply say I thought this a very powerful book. Occasionally confusing. Occasionally laborious. Yet overall brimming with energy and truth as well as some vivid characters and some uncomfortable visceral moments.
Yet this irony is most keenly viewed through our 21st century eyes; we must remember that Invisible Man was released in 1952, a full dozen years before The Civil Rights Act. And thus, for Ellison, his visibility was mostly seen as the rise of a great Negro writer despite his best efforts to shed that appellation.
Just as Ellison attempted to reach across racial lines (sometimes to the detriment and consternation of other black writers and intellectuals) and use his individual intelligence and creativity to push white racial prejudice further into the realm of irrationality.
What and how much had I lost by trying to do only what was expected of me instead of what I myself had wished to do?
But it didn't take long to realize my mistake when I began reading Ellison's classic.
To me, this is a story of naiveté, muddling through life, never quite understanding how the world really works and trying unsuccessfully to play catch-up and get in step...and as he said, doing what was expected of him.
And then realizing, no matter WHAT you do, it will never be enough because of the color of your skin...or, in the case of women, your gender.
Υπέροχο!
Winner of the 1953 National Book Award.One of the defining novels of the 20th century. You don't find racism and bigotry just in the South, you find it everywhere, and in many different forms and layers. Ellison does a masterful job of showing this through his unique style and prose. It's impact and influence on the reader will forever change the way you view your place in society and how your actions influence the lives of those around you.Revised Feb. 2016.
It was refreshingly honest and bold and eloquent.I struggled with this rating because my experience of reading this book was difficult and laborious.
It was jarring and confusing reading the book without the anchor of historical importance, literary context, etc...
With books of this type, books of cultural importance, books with deep symbolism and message, I find it helpful to have a preparation in reading it.
I often avoid reading the back of books or reviews or even the introduction before hand because they give away the story.
So many of the quotes and positions of The Brotherhood could be taken right out of the mouths of our current crop of politicians on both sides of the U.S. presidential race today that it chilled me to the bone.
You're black and living in the South - did you forget how to lie?""Play the game, but don't believe in it...that much you owe yourself.
Our fate is to become one, and yet many....."I choose to use Mr. Ellison ' s words instead of my own, but I will repeat my first statement: This book is brilliant.
Of course I have changed my mind now, seeing this as a work of consummate genius, a life poured out in a very consequential way.
Maybe one day I might be able to absorb this as the kind of tragedy it depicts, but I suspect that many more of us have become invisible since then: the genres and positions which are chosen for us by the elitist media, to which I once aspired to be a part,have nothing to do with the underlying humanity which spends its time looking for the truth.
È questa la vera malattia dell'anima, la lancia nel costato, la tirata per il collo attraverso la città piena di teppaglia infuriata, la Grande Inquisizione, l'abbraccio della ghigliottina.”Pubblicato nel 1952 e vincitore del Man Booker Prize, questo testo ha una struttura circolare, dove la fine è il principio, ed è considerato tra i più importanti per la letteratura americana e afroamericana ed è stato fonte di notevoli studi e apprezzamenti, nella narrazione del dramma dei neri d'America.
[update 9/27/2013: OH BOY, seems like this book has made the news...and yes human stupidity is involved.
When I found out that this book had been banned by Randolph County [school board], North Carolina for not having any "merit", on the weekend before banned books week, the irony could not be more incredible.
The book details the personal, cultural, and existential alienation and forced invisibility of the main character and others like him.
I guess everyone who likes to read has that one book.
Before I read this book I didn't know that I had a opinion or view on anything really especially not race or politics.
You Will Hit a Stride in Reading this Classic in Time to Ellison's Forceful DrumbeatThis classic novel stirs the soul--in the boom-boom, rat-a-tat-tat of drummers in a huge, swaggering marching band.While he meticulously plotted INVISIBLE MAN, Ralph Ellison successfully styled this classic in many ways as a virtuoso would a jazz improvisation, conjuring fertile imagery in lush and metrical prose.
"What and how much had I lost by trying to do only what was expected of me instead of what I myself had wished to do?***I was pulled this way and that for longer than I can remember.
A brilliant work of Black existentialism.The only reason why I wasn’t entirely in love with this novel is because I found myself a bit put off by the the plot sometimes, and even more so at the disinterest I felt towards other characters. What kept me going though was the engaging voice of the narrator and Ellison’s unique writing. It is a novel that truly captures the heart of American literature.Lovely narration by Joe Morton.
The problem of being a black during the 20's-50's in the Deep South as well as in the North in the now called Land of Freedom.
BLAck. BLACK.The eloquent unnamed narrator is a black man who participates in a contest in an arena where the black contestants are blindfolded and fight each other while white men are watching and throwing their bids.
Invisible because white women characters in this book use black men to fulfill their sexual fantasies.
The narrator, the Invisible Man happens to be born at the height of black discrimination in the US during the 20-60's.
An American classic.Not just a great African-American novel but a great American novel on the level of Moby-Dick or, The Whale, The Adventures of Tom Sawyer and The Catcher in the Rye. Written in the early 1950s and with a narrative power as great as any of our finest writers, Ralph Ellison proclaims himself to be one of our best.
There this natural leader and orator finds that he is nonetheless “invisible”: minimized and marginalized in the outer world even while being effective amongst “The Brotherhood”, Ellison’s amalgam of socialist / communist / progressive street wise organizations.As smooth, original and innovative as jazz, Ellison’s great contribution to twentieth century literature should be on a list of books that should be read at least once in a lifetime.
(sorry, long sentence ahead, so (view spoiler)[As I drove,faded and yellowed pictures of the school’s early days displayed in the library flashedacross the screen of my mind, coming fitfully and fragmentarily to life -- photographs of men and women in wagons drawn by mule teams and oxen, dressed in black, dusty clothing, people who seemed almost without individuality, a black mob that seemed to be waiting, looking with blank faces, and among them the inevitable collection of white men and women in smiles, clear of features, striking, elegant and confident.
My impression is that Ellison was not really a novel-writer; he would typically write shorter fiction or non-fiction, and this book feels like an amalgam of different speeches, notes, stories, symbolic situations or encounters.
