https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138872.Follow_the_River
What happens is exciting and the story is hard to put down.
The book is both adventure story and character study.
What made this book so special for me is that I felt what Mary felt.
When she was starving, all I could think about was food.
The journeys, first when Mary was captured and taken to the Shawnee camp and then her journey of escape, beg to be discovered.
What happened when she lived with the Shawnee?
Mary was captured in July 1755.
Their relationship is of central importance to my appreciation of the book.
This book needed a lot of editing.
Instead, even when she was starving and fighting exposure and exhaustion in the extreme, every time she thought of her husband, it was sexual.
Also, in some parts the way she thought about her children didn't seem natural--forced or too theatrical.
Her reasoning for escaping was very believable and the story of her survival is compelling, but to read every single detail of her ordeal was not enjoyable.
This book ended up being more of a page-skipper (I wanted to know how it ended, but didn't want to read to it) rather than a page-turner.
Believing her husband still to be alive and having had her two young boys taken from her while in captivity, Mary Ingles came to the momentous decision to leave her own baby girl with the "savages", in an attempt to escape and make the long, long journey home.
(At this point it's almost ridiculous to note that there is no record of Mary Ingles having been pregnant at the time of her abduction and that many historians dispute that there ever was any such child in the first place.)What this woman did, the respect she inspired from the Indians who captured her, the decisions she made to steel herself for the journey she planned to make, the journey she did indeed make--this is a novel that truly inspired me.
The captives are taken on a long journey to Shawnee Town, where they are somewhat assimilated into the community, Mary is sold as a slave and her sons are *adopted* by one of the Indian chiefs.
Mary rebels at being another man's slave and yearns to escape and return home to her husband, and she and Dutch woman Ghetel finally get their chance to leave - but there's a terrible cost involved - winter is coming on and it is a long long way back to Draper's Meadow."On the eleventh day of their freedom they had to walk five miles upstream and then five miles downstream to get around another creek that had barred their progress up the bank of the O-y-o."One thousand miles, and only the clothes on their backs (already in rags) and what food they are able to gather along the way.
I read it once when I was a young teen, and again last year as an adult.
The book stayed with me all these years.
It's a true story about a young woman during the French and Indian War who witnesses much of her family and village massacred and then is taken by Indians.
With her two young sons, who were spared, and a baby due any day, she travels hundreds of miles on horseback and foot to the Indian camp, then has to make a heart-wrenching decision - stay and marry an Indian, even as her two sons are taken away to another Indian camp, or leave her baby in the care of another Indian woman and travel on foot with nothing but a tomahawk and the clothes on her back back to her home and husband.
I chose to read "Follow the River" by James Alexander Thom not so much to be entertained and inspired by the story of Mary Ingles’s escape in 1755 from Indian captivity and her torturous return from the Ohio River to her family’s frontier settlement west of the Blue Ridge Mountains.
She got her numb left hand up to it and around it, forced the fingers to close, and pulled herself, panting and squinting, a little further up, her naked abdomen and thighs scraping over snow and rock and frozen soil, her cold-petrified toes trying awkwardly to gain traction."Thom’s ability to narrate Mary’s thoughts and emotions is equally vital to the success of the novel.
I absolutely loved the first 40% or so. It was full of action, suspense, drama and had me glued to the book. But then it plateaued hard. Like really hard. And stayed that way until the end. It was such an abrupt change I had a difficult time keeping my full attention on the story. So it started as a strong 5 star book then slowly dropped to a 4 and when the journey home made the book feel like it was 1,000 pages long I finally ended with 3 strong stars.
It's gruesome at times, but such a powerful, realistic retelling of an incredible, true story. It really moved me and I'm sure I will read it again. Mary Ingles is one of my heroes now!
One of the songs we perform (written by one of my bandmates) was inspired by this book, which tells of the story of Mary Ingles (no relation to Laura Ingalls Wilder), who was kidnapped, along with her children, in a Shawnee indian raid on her village in Virginia in the late 1700's.
James Thom told me that his wife was instrumental in getting a fair telling of the tale, as from the Ingles side of the tale, the indians were heathen savages, but with the indian side of the tale told, these raids and kidnappings were part of a retaliation toward the white settlers for similar attacks on their people.
With winter coming on and virtually no food/clothing/shoes, they made their way over very difficult terrain back to Virginia, where Mary was reunited with her husband.
In preparation for writing the book, he actually spent several weeks following the terrain Mary Ingles traveled, so the details of the ordeal felt very real.The majority of this book was worthy of four stars.
However, there was one long chunk of the book that really got old after awhile.
I know he was showing how long and arduous and debilitating the journey was, but reading about the dailiness got on my nerves sometimes.
(Same reason I don't care for books about long sea voyages.)

This was FANTASTC!! I stayed up to 3:30 am to finish it last night. Could not stop reading. I have a thing for this time period so I really liked it. What made it even better for me was that it was a true story. Unbelievable what the heroine went through.
Living in Draper’s Meadow, Virginia, Mary, possibly pregnant at the time, her two sons, Thomas (4) and George (2), and her sister-in-law Betty, and a male neighbor were ambushed and taken captive.
Mary eventually is brought to Big Bone Lick, Kentucky and it is here that she decides she must escape and find her way back home to Virginia and her husband, Will.
We chalked some up to male/female differences on how we see motherhood, home and family.This is another book that makes you want to do research, not only about Mary but the others that were taken captive during the French & Indian War and other Indian raids.
And it's fiction, but based on a real life woman's history of being kidnapped and then returning to her own people eventually by a long on foot trip down a 1000 mile river.
This time I did not read slowly, but skimmed parts.
I was surprised by the length of pages for the return trip and the starvation lengths of the tale- I had forgotten how severe and stark that was.
Sometimes the tale is as crude or stark as it can be filled with natural bounty description.
There was and extreme lack of womanly/motherly emotion described in events that would more than evoke such feelings from the main character, and it left her(in my eyes) less realistic and relateable(despite the fact this really did happen)........My mother made me read this one, and although it got off to a decent start, I lost interest and desire to continue reading by about page 175, and felt at that point in the story, it lacked motive to continue for another 250+ pages.
I was curious though about this woman's survival story in history, so I finished it, but was not altogether pleased with my spent time!
Mary is a mother and is kidnapped by Native Americans when whites were settling the West.
It is a true story of a woman that truly survived what no human should ever have to survive.
I wish I would have passed on this book because it seriously gave me nightmares.
It was an amazing story of survival, I am pretty sure I would have died if put in that situation.
I still get scary feelings (those of you have read it will understand), because I hear this voice (in a German accent of course) in my head from the book "Mary, Where are you?"(creepy).
Even though this is listed as historical fiction, it is actually based on a true survival story of a woman named Mary Ingles (no, not Little House on the Prairie) who was captured by Indians in the 1700's.
It started off perfectly and I wondered why I hadn't read it before now.
I was really captured by Mary's story.
She was a young mother and just the thought that she had to endure the kidnapping, her new life and her escape was hard enough, but the fact that so did her children really tugged on the heart strings.
There were some parts during her escape, that I started thinking, "Okay already....Enough.
This novel is based on the true story of Mary Ingles, a young frontier woman living in western Virginia in the 1750s at the onset of the French and Indian War. Their settlement was at the far fringes of colonial development and vulnerable to attack from the Shawnee Indians.
This is the story about what happens when she is living with the Shawnees and how she escapes and finds her way back to her beloved husband where she then renews her life living well into old age.
I would highly recommend this book.
This book was tragically beautiful.
Her decision to leave her children left me questioning what I would do.
Would I have sacrificed my freedom and life to be with my children instead?
The journey home was beautiful, treacherous, and long, which describes how it felt to read it.
Just as Mary and "Ghetel" trudged through the landscape - knowing where they were going and surrounded by beauty - I became semi lost in the descriptions of the land, what they ate, and how they felt.
Pioneer women are something else and this book showed me that I might not have been suited for Mary's life.
Amazingly based on a true character and events, this is the harrowing story of Mary Ingels who is kidnapped by the Shawnee along with her children and is forced to undertake a perilous journey through unchartered wildnerness to reach home.It's is compelling reading in parts and the violence and grittiness of the times is well portrayed. Much of the heartache that Mary endured as a wife and mother wasn't adequately described. However her bravery and fortitude shone through.
I feel humbled by Mary Ingles' story. It is truly amazing. There were parts of the book I felt could have been shorter and almost gave it four stars because of that, but then I worried that somewhere out in the cosmos it would offend Mary Ingles....;). This story is truth that is more unbelievable than fiction. Fantastic.
I read this for book club. I never would have picked it up on my own. The writing is not great, but the story (based on fact) is gripping and I'm still thinking about it a year after reading it.
She escaped her captors, and WALKED home, about a thousand miles, with another captive woman, arriving just this side of death, after about six weeks.What I really liked about this story is the sensual details are deep but not excessive.
Felt fear of being recaptured, the bond formed between the two women on the trail, fear of losing the way, the grim determination.I also liked that this book neither whitewashed the Shawnee as "noble savages," nor portrayed them as anything other than intelligent, complex human beings, while still portraying these clashes from the point of view of the early white settlers.
Based on the true story of Mary Ingles survival and ordeal by Shawnee Indians in the Ohio river valley.
The author gave every sordid detail of her captivity and journey hundreds of miles along the river.
What is most impressive is her journey back.
The raw and brutal landscape was described full in detail as she managed to escape.
I liked the afterword as it explained a lot of the facts that he based this story on.
The map of the river in the book helped with the visualization of her route too.
When I finally decided to put it down I just bawled like a baby.
If that wasn't bad enough, The main character lets her three children, including three week old baby be taken in by the culture of the Indians.
I have heard it described as a very heroic and inspiring tale, and many of you may be able to read it without the heart wrenching agony I felt.SPOILER:I decided to find out how it ends on the internet, and the main character makes it back to her people by following a river over 1000 miles.

Mary Ingles was an amazing woman!
I can't imagine living through what she endured.
When she left her sons and newborn daughter in the care of savages my heart nearly broke.
Her traveling companion, an old Dutch woman named Gretel, was quite scary and gruesome.
When Gretel began displaying cannibalistic behavior I thought about how desperate one must be to have such strong survival instincts.
I found it most interesting that in the end Mary was able to share the route she took through the New River Gouge with George Washington, assisting his Revolutionary War efforts.
Read this for book club, so I plowed through it so I could have it finished by tomorrow night. Well, all I can say is WOW! I am exhausted from reading it. I couldn't put it down, but I also didn't want to pick it up. It is a very detailed description to a horrible nightmare. Once you get started on her journey home, you don't want to put the book down because you want her to get home so badly. I just hope we can read something uplifting and fun for book club soon!
I wish I had been warned about the first chapter. As a mother with children about the same age as Mary's, it was one of the most difficult things to read. I give this book four stars, because page after page of hunger, cold, and physical pain, became a bit tedious, so I skimmed through the last part. I wish that the author had spent more time on her adjustment back into her community and with her husband. Mary's story is remarkable, however, and definitely worth reading!
This book is based on an incredible true story. I couldn't put it down!
