https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147759.Sound_and_Sense
Telling me what to think kills the process of allowing me to think for myself, and I feel like that defeats the point of poetry.
Beyond the indoctrination, there are some good poems included in this book, although the author strongly favors certain poets.
If you're a reader who isn't super fond of, say, Robert Frost, this book can get rather tedious.
As someone likes neither poetry nor being told how to think, this isn't one of the better books we've had to read in AP English.
As you can probably already tell, I greatly dislike this book.
However, the book has exactly one interpretation for each poem and if you don't nail it exactly, you get penalized (in AP lit).
Moreover, finding answers to the questions presented in the book is quite difficult.
It's not in the back of the book and it's not easy to find on the internet.
Consequently, you never really know when you have a correct or incorrect interpretation of a poem (unless Mrs. Gray validates your claims).
It's a shame that the book does not really allow loose interpretations of the selected poems.
It's a bit dry, but tons of great poems.
I don't particularly love the organization of the book, and I really wish there were a bit more on each poet - more than the years they lived.
My favorite part of the book are the guiding questions.
Very helpful as you try to breakdown and understand a poem.The most offensive thing to me was the little dissertation on how a poem is determined to be 'great.' There is an insulting little concept of 'qualified reader' and a dubious little math problem on 'perfection' and 'scope' - old school to say the least.
The ultimate user's manual for reading poetry.
What I liked most about this book, compared to other instructive books of poetry, is the selection of formalist poetry.
This book offers a very intensive introduction to how it intends to appraise the poems which makes it great for anyone new to poetry, as well as an extensive look at the form and sound of formalism.It's not quite as good for contemporary poems as many other poetry guides on the market--but that is a problem which solves itself, as the majority of books on the market are a contemporary focus.
This was the poetry bible for first-year students in my English major.
Very useful, especially for those who need guidance in understanding poetry, like me for instance ;P Those questions at the end of each poem, I can't tell you how much that helped me form some semblance of interpretation.
I just found my copy of this book (actually it's my sister's copy, I used her old books for class) among other books that I forgot I still have, so I guess it would be useful whenever I feel the need for some poetic spirit.
It is good every once in a while to read a text book, to stretch yourself beyond your usual comfortable limits, to give yourself homework. And, among all the books you are reading, to have a book of poetry to pop into now and then-- just to wake you from your drowsy comfort.
How did this get to be the standard text? The dude's taste is dubious, his ear is dubious, and he's not a poet.
This book is suitable for self-teaching for those who want to learn more about poetry.
by far my favorite 'textbook', if you can call it that, from high school.
dead poet’s society !!
Note: required readingI hate the break down of poetry.. This was an alright book, a little long with reading all the poems at the end of each chapter.
This is a very good book for teaching the elements of poetry and how to explicate poems.
I only have two complaints about the book--at times I think the authors could have gone into a little more detail in their definitions before presenting poems to look at, and they don't entirely understand sarcasm as they feel its only purpose is to tear down in one way or another.
Otherwise, it is organized in such a way that it focuses the reader on the important issues of poems first (i.e. meaning) and only goes into issues like scansion (meter/rhyme) after meanings, symbolism and the like are discussed in detail.
Sound and Sense is a classic introductory to poetry that many of you might have encountered in high school or college.
I recently found my copy from high school and was reviewing it just to refresh my knowledge of poetry terms.
Although books like this can often drain the joy out of reading poetry, the commentary is pretty interesting and insightful.
Aside from the educational aspect of the work, the collection of poems in the book is sensational.
While I don't know that I'd go pay $85 for the new edition, a few dollars for an older paperback edition would be well worth the price!
Despite some questionable New-Critical bias, this is nevertheless the most informative book on the theory of poetry I've ever read. It comes with an interesting selection of poems, divides nicely into chapters and is downright helpful with definitions, and has come the closest of anything (teachers included) I've ever come across to helping me understand versification and scansion-- not just the terminology involved, that is, but as a tool for helping one understand and appreciate poems. I recommend it wholeheartedly!
*3.7Yes, it's didactic. Yes, the explanations are ridiculously pretentious. Yes, it should include more Eliot. But on the whole, a very worthy collection of poetry. I'd personally drop some and add some others. The explanations can be lengthy but it truly has some interesting [again, so pretentious but also interesting] things to say about poetry. It's a hard subject for a textbook, I think. And as far as textbooks go, I nearly enjoyed reading it all. I say well done.
Ok, I admit it... I'm a poetry nerd. This is a collection of poems that I read in my AP English class, and I now own a copy. I LOVE it. Classics from Shakespeare, Sylvia Plath, Emily Dickinson, John Donne, etc. It's nice to have a collection of so many different poets around when I feel like being deep and analytical.
How many versions of this exist? I'm guessing tons. God, I cut my teeth on anthologies like this...back in the day when they would put rock lyrics in here by the Beatles and the Rolling Stones to try to add "hip interest." Not trying to be elitist, but some of it was really laughingly bad....and the one by Xavier Kennedy...that was just one cut above this lowly bottomfeeder anthology....
A really nice collection of poems, neatly grouped to guide the reader/student. Really helpful for a poetry novice. But, a little dull, and occasionally, a little overwhelming with the sheer number of poems it offers. Also, it's a little traditionalist, sometimes focusing on a very narrow interpretation of the poem, but again, it serves as a nice introduction to the poetry world.
Read this for AP English. Highly informative, with some great poems - my favorites are "Pathedy of Manners" and "Music Lessons." However, the language was openly worshipful of poetry. Perhaps only to be expected, considering that the book is an introduction to poetry, but the gushing fondness was rather unhappy.
If you are looking for a straight-forward, no-nonsense, honest and real "introduction to poetry"...this is the book for you. It is excellent in every way. Every chapter progresses naturally from the next. The poetry used is top-notch, perfectly complimenting each "lesson". It is a pleasure to read, an educational joy, and a beautiful doorway into the world of poetry.
Read this book as the textbook for my Poetry class. Extremely useful and easily understandable for people who find poetry difficult (and intimidating.) The book also provides questions that help you to understand and analyse the poems, along with some background information about the poems and poets.
A fabulous guide to the appreciation of poetry in general, and a wonderful companion to and commentary on some of the best poetry and poets in the English language—both old and new, lofty and whimsical. A delightful and invaluable literary companion and reference.
This anthology/introduction to poetry is quite rigorous. I read it in high school and got quite a lot out of it. I would normally give it five stars........but the high school teacher who assigned it was a jerk. Therefore, I'm going to give it one star.
I've read several chapters out of this. I plan to finish it, but at the moment, my favorite part is the enormous amount of poetry. Every chapter has a dozen or more examples of great poetry that exhibits the qualities described in the chapter.
I read it for ap lit so wasn't so into it from the beginning. Although, I do appreciate the lessons on understanding poetry more. I'm not so averted to poetry as I used to be and I do like some of the poems in there. Not my cup of tea.
Lovely book with a great compilation of work by the masters and a few unknowns. A touch too judgmental by modern standards,so new readers of poetry need to take its advice with more than a little pinch of salt:)
fairly standard, fairly dry intro to poetry. some lofty philosophical questions mixed with some pragmatic approaches to the study of one of the more complex literary types.excellent collection of poems, if that matters.
I have always considered this book to be the best in its class for teaching introductory poetry. I read it in college as a freshman and use it still today to teach basic poetry concepts. It's a great text and the poems chosen for inclusion clearly illustrate the author points. Excellent!
Would like to read it but it really is a textbook. I need more than self-motivation, I guess. I do want to know more about poetry. I did read enough to know that I don't always agree with the author.
