https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/911317.The_Thanksgiving_Visitor
This story is set in the Great Depression era yet Capote's cousins can afford as many turkeys as needed for Thanksgiving dinner so the friends and family come from miles around to celebrate with them.
The stand out cousin in this group is the 60ish-year-old Nanny Rumbley Faulk(Miss Sook) for she has become Capote's (Buddy) very first friend.
Within this story Capote emphasizes the importance of family and friends as Miss Sook helps 8-year-old Buddy in his dealings with a local bully.
The shame I feel is for all of us who have anything extra when other people have nothing." page 86 Capote/Buddy narrates "However, everybody arrived earlier than we intended ....
Un'altra DollyBreve e delicato racconto in cui un'altra eterea e impalpabile Dolly impartisce ad un altro tenero e insicuro Collin la prima vera lezione della sua vita; mentre a noi Truman Capote insegna che si può essere un poeta anche scrivendo in prosa.«Solo una cosa vorrei dirti Buddy.
Due torti non fanno una ragione, mai.
Qualunque cosa lo abbia spinto a farlo, non poteva essere un'azione calcolata.
Per questo ciò che hai fatto tu è stato molto peggio; tu hai calcolato di umiliarlo.
È stata una cosa deliberata.
Questo, mai.
Mi capisci, Buddy?»La capivo, vagamente, e il tempo mi ha insegnato che aveva ragione.
When I found this in the "children" section at a local library, I was not expecting much more than a read-aloud Thanksgiving story.
Set against the background of the Great Depression, we get: A dark themeA vicious bullyA dysfunctional familyA simpletonRealismThoughts of running awayThoughts of suicideConfrontation without resolution (in the optimal terms)An ending that is not happy or sad, but brings a closureI'd say we have enough for a pretty darn good story.
Where Capote shines though, and this is what makes this little book stand out, is his prose.
Well-crafted sentences, punctuation, his choice of words...Capote was a great writer.
While some of the themes made it unsuitable for my intended audience, I resumed reading later and enjoyed the book all by myself.
Set in the Great Depression, 1932, in rural Alabama, the story is centered on Buddy, a young school-age boy, and his friend, who is the youngest of his cousins, Miss Sook, in her sixties.
At least, Odd was twelve in 1932, when we were both second-graders attending a small-town school in rural Alabama.”At sixty-two pages, this is a quick, if somewhat dark but heart-warmingly charming story, a “frankly autobiographical” story based on Truman Capote’s early life living with a family of his distant, elderly cousins in rural Alabama.
The cover of the edition I own has a charming photograph of a very young Truman Capote with Miss Sook on the cover.
Truman Capote (Buddy) lived with a group of older cousins when he was seven years old. He was especially close to Miss Sook, a simple, innocent elderly cousin who radiated kindness and empathized with the less fortunate. When Miss Sook invites Buddy's impoverished schoolyard tormenter to Thanksgiving dinner, her act of compassion has an impact on both boys. Miss Sook was far from simple when it came to understanding the emotional needs of children.This was a Moderator's Choice for the "On the Southern Literary Trail" group.
The perfect Thanksgiving story.
This is a heart warming lesson on the virtues of loving your enemy and being kind to those who persecute you. It's an autobiographical story from the author's childhood which I presume is mostly true, subject to the usual limitations of any memoir. It is a long short story--or is it a short long story? I read it in one hour.
In Capote's short story, he shares the adage of being kind to your bullies as they may suffer what you least observe. Never seek revenge or humiliation towards your enemy. Their hurt may be enough to get by without your aid.At least, that's my spin on the emotional spike of this story.
I have an edition of this book from the 1970s that includes Capote's "A Christmas Memory" I read this every year during the holidays. Both stories are from Capote's childhood while he lived with distant relatives before being sent to military school. That may have been the only happy period in his life. This book makes me grateful at Thanksgiving and content at Christmas.
Review to follow by my 10 year old.
My mother in law is losing her sight, and taking it nobly being the beautiful person she is, so my father in law read it aloud in their little apartment in the retirement home.
Capote's give for writing, and his unique upbringing, collide in an innocent little tale of his coming of age, and the elderly relatives and guests who arrive for Thanksgiving dinner.
We may read this again in the future, but a year from now will not as it is today, where we mere mortals enjoyed quiet kinship and simple joy in being together and loving each other.
1967 birthday readPerfect for this time of year. Me thinks this is more of a personal essay rather than fictional. Dedicated to Harper Lee.
This should be a Thanksgiving classic for most families.
To turn on me with a growl and a roar.' It was the kind of remark that caused people to wonder about Miss Sook, though, I understand that only in retrospect, for I always knew just what she meant, and in this instance, the whole idea of it, the notion of lugging all those growling gorgeous roaring links into the house and caging them in tacky vases (our final decorative act on Thanksgiving Eve) made us so giggly and giddy and stupid we were soon out of breath."
wow, this is a fast-reading book, yet could claw you down. well, i start to enjoy and understand capote, and i admire the character of Miss Sook, his cousin, an old-woman who was so pure and naive, isolated and awkward to other human, and yet so open and touched by the humanity itself in her own sweet way. youd learn how violence, humiliation and embarrassment could effect the goodness in you, yet if dealt in a clear and pure-hearted way, they could shape you up to be a better human with far-fet
wow, this is a fast-reading book, yet could claw you down. well, i start to enjoy and understand capote, and i admire the character of Miss Sook, his cousin, an old-woman who was so pure and naive, isolated and awkward to other human, and yet so open and touched by the humanity itself in her own sweet way. you´d learn how violence, humiliation and embarrassment could effect the goodness in you, yet if dealt in a clear and pure-hearted way, they could shape you up to be a better human with far-fetched understanding, too.
Buddy and his closest friend, his eccentric, elderly cousin, Miss Sook - the memorable characters from Capote's A Christmas Memory--love preparing their old country house for Thanksgiving.
Enchanting illustrations by Beth Peck make The Thanksgiving Visitor a perfect companion for the holiday bookshelf.
My Review:I enjoyed reading this short, easy to read, heartwarming tale of the joys of friendship and love.
It is sure to be a Thanksgiving classic that is written with a beautiful message.
I look forward to reading A Christmas Memory and One Christmas by Truman Capote in December.
I would highly recommend this book to those who enjoy holiday message books.
Inspired by his childhood growing up in Alabama, Sook, Truman’s older cousin, teaches Capote a lesson that he should never publicly humiliated another.
And I'm speaking of a 12-year-old boy, not some grownup who has had the time to ripen a naturally evil disposition.
At least, Odd was twelve in 1932, when were were both second-graders attending a small town school in rural Alabama.Thus, Capote has introduced two of the principal characters, stated the conflict, and stated time and place.
As she was a child herself (many people thought her less than that, ...), she understood children and understood me absolutely.The choice of characters is what broadens the audience -- kids will identify with the boys, while adults will recognize themselves (maybe) in the older woman.
An autobiographical account of the period when Truman Capote was 7 or 8 in rural Alabama, living with 3 spinster lady cousins and their brother. His one cousin was Miss Sook and she was his best friend along with his dog Queenie. His nemesis was a boy named Odd Henderson who made his life miserable. Thanksgiving came and everyone gathered at the house including Odd who
A beautifully written short story. A lesson about adversity seen through the eyes of an eight year old. Lots of warm descriptions of family and holiday fare. Sure to put you in a cozy mood! Oh, and Thanks! to Laura for mentioning this.
This is a cute story with a lovely ending. Usually a 'classic story' is a classic for a reason. A good holiday story for young and old alike. I would recommend this story to any reading list for the holiday. Puts you in the holiday mood.
Gradevole, ironico, elegante, assolutamente delizioso.
A short little story based on Truman Capote's real life, with descriptions of Alabama Thanksgivings and a lesson about ... kindness? Forgiveness? All of the above.
A perfect reflection of a childhood Thanksgiving.
Doesn’t quite recapture the magic of a Christmas Memory (it was written about a decade later), but it is still a fantastic story.
Truman Capote children's book? Yes, yes it is.
Short, almost a children's story, but the writing was too good.
Probably best for children who have the patience for a longer than usual story with advanced vocabulary.
So, old-fashioned children.Phrases: *About a woman who died - "And it wasn't age that lowered the curtain; she was attacked and trampled by a bull in the pasture".*Miss Sook, an elderly sheltered spinster who as child-like and nervous around adults but loved and related to children - "Innocence, preserved by the absence of experience that had always isolated Miss Sook, left her incapable of encompassing an evil so complete".
I can think of some people like that.My favorite part was when the boy stayed home sick on the rainy day and was taken care of.
Can I be that boy?
Capote writes in flourishes and punctuation, which can be a bit overwrought at times, but often comes off as charming and engaging.Summary:Buddy (Truman Capote) has a family that overloads their thanksgiving feasts.
He often detaches himself from the family, instead spending time with his only "friend"-- his nigh-centarian great aunt.
He intends to sabotage the dinner and make the bully look bad, so everybody can see him as he sees him.Characters:Buddy: Childish, reclusive, anti-social-- Buddy has all the makings of a future serial killer (or novelist).Buddy's "friend": Actually Buddy's great aunt, she shares in Buddy's childishness and reclusive nature, but is more innocent, optimistic, and trusting than Buddy.
This autobiographical story takes place in the 1930's, a time when times were hard and people did without.
Buddy (aka Capote) lives in Alabama with his elderly relatives including his aunt Miss Sook who is his closest friend of the time.
Miss Sook believes that kindness and understanding are the key to resolving differences and invites Odd to Thanksgiving dinner.
This was a cute story with a strong moral ending.
They were very drab and a little impressionistic which didn't necessarily excite me (I am a bright colors kind of girl) but I did think they complimented the description of the time period nicely.
I read this book aloud to my children every Thanksgiving and at age 60, continue to read it every year. A memorable telling of a hard, life lesson for a child bullied by a school fellow and the love between the child and an elderly distant relative. Based on his own childhood, Truman Capote, reveals the sacred bond and wisdom gleaned from Miss Sook that accompanied him throughout his life.
This is a good story told from the young that tells of those special life lessons we learn from our elders. We don't always know what goes on in the lives of others that cross our paths. We aren't even responsible for how they treat us but we are responsible for our own actions and the good or the bad that we can choose to act upon.
