https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/409598.Worms_of_the_Earth
It’s not the best written tale I’ve ever read – the prose is a bit clunky and the plot is somewhat simplistic, but in conjuring a world of fog, magic and mysticism it definitely succeeds.
I guess its position in this collection makes this the prologue, and it does a good job of opening up this fantasy version of Britain, but it would also be quite missable if you’re reading whilst pressed for time.Men of the ShadowsDefinitely weird fiction, just not in the way that phrase is normally meant.
I chose to read this book because many years ago I read the first part in a Conan the Barbarian Comic and always wanted to know how it progressed and ended. How disappointing. It would appear that I read the best bit whilst the rest just sped by. Oh well.
Morn's sworn enemies were the Romans, so these seven stories typically feature Pict vs.
Roman action in ancient Britain.THE LOST RACE is an introductory story that tells of a Celtic warrior kidnapped by an underground race.
MEN OF THE SHADOWS is by contrast a battle piece in which a Roman brigade is attacked by masses of Pictish warriors.
Bizarrely, Howard's ancient hero Kull is brought into the story's present via magic, and it all ends in an incredibly violent battle full of bloodshed from every angle.
WORMS OF THE EARTH is the best story in the collection, and sees Morn on a personal mission of revenge against his enemies.
Howard at his best.
He creeps closer to the world of Lovecraft and Smith here (their work is referenced), with a bit of barbarism thrown in to create his own distinct flavor.
It is the road there, through ancient horrors and hidden abominations (well, that is how Howard would probably describe them!) that makes the tale what it is.
The contrast between such and the straightforward barbarian was pretty much Howard’s stock in trade, of course, a theme that often appears in his fiction.
But here there is a little less barbarian and a little more horror.
La primera novela de ficcion historica que leo.
Las batallas son pocas pero intensas, el protagonista es maravilloso, la ambientacion es magistral (en especial en el capitulo que da nombre a la novela) y el cameo de Kul el Atlante es delicia para viejos fans de Howard.
Esos si, el final es realmente flojo en comparación con el resto.
Al menos a mi me faltó una gran conclusión final, la última gran batalla de Brann, donde pereciera.
Además, como aditivo, he de añadir que el rigor historico a veces chusquea en pos de la ficcion, si bien no creo que esto sea un aspecto realmente negativo en esta obra.
But he has a foreword which pretty openly lays out that he's just fascinated with the beginnings of civilization, and he's excited about the Picts less for their own historical nature (which he hasn't seriously researched) and more because of what the first humans in the British Isles symbolize to him.The stories are like novelizations of _Diablo_ levels, with the protagonist (a different person in every story) killing lots of enemies and often marveling at how awesome whichever weapon he's carrying is.
It’s been years since I read any of Howard’s work, mainly because I hunted down and read everything he wrote when I was a kid.
Of all the fantasy writers in this swords and sorcery genre, Howard remains my favorite.
In his introduction, Howard talks about his fascination with the people known as Picts and this is well reflected in the stories of Bran Mak Morn, king of the Picts.
Howard had a knack for weaving the places and events of history with the myths and legends of the past.
It gives his writing a complexity that works well for his kind of storytelling.It’s been nice getting reacquainted with Howard’s writing.
Robert E.
Howard is my all time favorite writer, but for many years much of his work was heavily edited.
This is another of the heavily edited collections of Robert E.
Howard's stories.
I am a purist when it comes to a writers works.
I know some of these stories are no longer PC but they should be read as Howard wrote them and understood that he wrote in another time period.
Don't read this book unless you just can't find any others of Howard's unedited books to read.
Message me if you need a list of what is good from this awesome fantasy and action writer.
This is actually the first Robert E. Howard story I've read, even though I'm a Conan fan -- strange, I know. I was confused at certain parts throughout the story, but by the end I was able to piece together the sum of everything. The way Robert is able to paint an image so vivid in my mind is just astonishing. From the very first paragraph I could visualize exactly where I was in his 'world.'Looking forward to reading more of his work.
Another really fine collection of stories. Bran Mak Morn is probably my favorite Howard character on an individual basis. These stories show Howard at the height of his power.Note: This book contains most of the same stories as in the Dell paperback called "Bran Mak Morn," with the exception of "The Night of the Wolf," which it doesn't include.
I read this during my early teens and it left me with an impression of greatness. Four decades later, I've discovered that the impression was based on just one of the seven stories in this volume, and my memory vastly exaggerated its quality. Disappointed.
Superb fun - highly action packed! AS with all Howard's writing, you have to take his history with a pinch of salt but superb fun! :)
Thesauruses were fearsome creatures.
Ressenya en català:http://www.elkraken.com/R-Gusanos_Tie...Reseña en castellano:http://www.elkraken.com/Esp/R-gusanos...
Superb fun - highly action packed! AS with all Howard's writing, you have to take his history with a pinch of salt but superb fun! :)
Very good guilty pleasure for 'hack and slash'. Howard had a gift for words and sometimes he could just draw you in.
Wow! Short stories by REH, pulp at it's best. REH plays fast and loose with history but none of that matters when broadswords cleft helms and the rivers run red with your enemies blood!
