https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10769733-miss-maitland-private-secretary
The daughter's marriage has broken up and it is an unpleasant scene when Chapman Price leaves.
The story builds up with threatening letters, and then a robbery - a big one which for various reasons are kept quiet.
The kidnap and ransom of Bebita the little girl who is the grand daughter of the Janneys however is not something that can be kept quiet despite the Janneys wanting it to be so.
Faced with charges of kidnap and ransom she is not willing to defend herself and the story slowly unravels as to why she takes this stance.
I loved this book.
I spent the better part of three days listening to it for hours on end.
It helped that my friend Holly Jenson read it on Librivox but it helped even more that she did an excellent job.
The only reason I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 is that the depiction of women and their hysterics under pressure diminished my enjoyment of it a bit.
That comes with the territory with these old books but it's still difficult to listen to.
That said I'm not sure why I despise most contemporary fiction so much but love these old stories.
Good and fun read!Easy reading with a nice plot and good old fashioned detective story. Set in NY makes it even more fun.
Mystery/romance interesting twists. Classically non offensive. Well narrated (Holly Jensen) and recommended.
I really enjoyed this story and the writing style. The author is obviously from another era, but very refreshing to read.
A pleasant period pieceNot particularly distinguished, but a nice diversion. I did wince at some casual racism and anti-Semitism, as is typical with mysteries of the '20s.
Fascinating...Although the plot was difficult to follow sometimes, this was a tale well told.Delightful, intriguing and fun. A great way to spend my travel time
Deleted this book.. Tried to get into in but could not!
Chapman does leave, but with shouts and threats.Chapter one is devoted to introducing the cast, but it doesn't take long for events to slowly start to build; mysterious and threatening letters, meetings at night in the woods, a robbery, two sets of detectives, listening in on phone calls, and an abduction.
And all this takes place on Long Island, New York.With plenty of twist and turns, it takes everyone to figure out the mysteries and catch the bad guys.
There was just enough detail to make the story believable, but not get bogged down.
I never lost interest in the story.
The text of the story is centered on the screen of my Kindle.
First, let's specify that this book is 100 years old, and therefore cannot be judged by modern standards. It takes place during WWI but before the US's full entry, so between 1914 and 1917. It's a double mystery, starts slow, but builds towards the end. One would assume that it was quite a sensation back then....what with divorce and kidnapping and murder and theft...
I accidentally read this book. It was free and thought I'd have a bit of flick through for research purposes. Yet, I really enjoyed this mystery novel. The ending is a bit convenient but it evokes post WW1 world, language and life. Will definitely seek out other books by this author.
Good period fun, but there are better examples out there.
