https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/919525.Le_Bal_Snow_in_Autumn
It is just one of the most satisfying stories ever, at least if you happen to be the daughter of a cold and unloving mother.
A five-star story without a doubt.
Ooooh I wish I'd been there!`The second novella, Snow in Autumn, is a story, told through the eyes of the old nanny, of a wealthy, aristocratic family fleeing the Russian Revolution and ending up in Paris where they all struggle to adapt, some less successfully than others, notably the nanny.
Only a two-star story for me, but the first novella was so superlative that I've awarded the book 4 stars.
Come mosche d'autunno presenta, oltre al racconto omonimo, anche Il ballo.
Nel primo racconto veniamo trasportati in una famiglia russa rappresentata dalla figura di Tat'jana, la balia, che si trasferisce in Francia.
Qui fa fatica ad adattarsi alla nuova realtà, rimpiangendo la neve dei rigidi inverni russi, mentre i giovani, proprio come le mosche che in autunno hanno delle difficoltà, cercano di spiccare il volo.
Nel secondo racconto, Il ballo, si delinea il rapporto madre-figlia, un rapporto vissuto dalla scrittrice in Jezabel.
Qui i soldi facili, l'ipocrisia, l'egoismo e il risentimento verso la figlia sono la parte integrante.
Pero a pesar de todo, a pesar de que los personajes están llenos de defectos, son tan reales que acabas compadeciéndote de ellos, porque todos sufren y tienen sus motivos, nada distintos de los nuestros: Antoinette, por ejemplo, sólo está impaciente para empezar a vivir, hacerse mayor y disfrutar de lo que le han prometido, mientras que su madre sólo se siente estafada porque no ha podido disfrutar de lo que le habían prometido y siente que se le está escapando el tiempo.
That, in my opinion, is a major flaw of the novella but it does not take away all of the pleasure in reading this piece and that may be because Le Bal is short therefore the readers does not have to suffer the unlikability of its characters.The second novella, Snow in Autumn, tells the story of Tatiana, a servant of the Karines who are members of the Russian aristocracy who has fled Revolutionary Moscow for Paris.
3.5 for Le Bal. I really liked this story but I wasn't moved by it at all really. The premise is great, and the execution is good but I wanted a little something more from this. 4 for Snow in Autumn. I thoroughly enjoyed this one, which I think may have been due to the setting/subject (a wealthy Russian family flee to France in the wake of the Russian Revolution). Emotive, haunting and beautifully written, this is one I'll think about for a while.
Two short stories – one of revenge and one of longing for the past.The stories / characters / writing were all reasonable but they came across as very dated.
The first story in this collection of two long short stories or short novellas was impossible for me to read - I quit about four pages in, feeling like I had been locked in a room with a bunch of awful people and then realizing I could just escape by closing the book. The second story, however, is both beautiful and beautifully written, offering insight into the very strange world of someone who had served generations of Russian nobility and followed them into exile.
3.5I read a book written by Irène Némirovsky for the first time many years ago, and I vividly remember that I was struck by her writing style.
It is like it has the ability to speak directly to me in a way that it's not always easy to find in books.These two short stories were the final confirmation that my first impression was right.Le Bal is the one I liked the most.
It was written in 1928 and I felt impressed by how realistic was the description of the young girl' rage and sadness.
Le Bal and Snow in Autumn by Irene NemirovskyThese two stories are both rather depressing.
I liked the second story, Snow in Autumn, better.
An elderly Russian servant, Tatiana, guards a family home, and sees the heir shot by revolutionaries.
They arrive in Paris and she becomes very homesick for cold and snow.
As the months go on, the family ignores her more as they adjust to their new lives, and she becomes isolated.
Instead of snow, rain comes in the autumn.
When the cold comes, it is a different kind of welcome.
Snow in Autumn is a minor piece - one note and precious - but a look at a family, and their servant, destroyed (or improved, depending on your perspective) by the Russian Revolution and by emigration.
A book with two short stories written by the same author of 'Suite Franchise'. I quite enjoyed the first story in the book but found myself wanting more from the second, which I felt didn't have quite as much of an impact.
Enjoyed reading both novellas, although the second was depressing.
Antoinette wants nothing more than to attend the ball and fall in love and get married (usually at 15 in the upper class), instead of having to take piano lessons with an older woman, Mademoiselle Isabelle, whom she hates.
Antoinette, who watches the spectacle from a hiding place in the living room had completely forgotten that she gave her dreaded piano teacher the invitation during the piano lesson.
Mr and Mrs Kampf entertain Mademoiselle Isabelle for an hour, and then she leaves when no one else shows up and Madam Kampf starts crying, because she thinks that the upper class circle has rejected her family and decided to boycott the ball.
I have read the first novella in this bind-up of two, "Le Bal." I hope to read "Snow in Autumn" soon, then review them both.
Antoinette has little joy in her life – daily, hated music lessons with the dreadful Mademoiselle Isabelle – a cousin of the Kampfs, to which she is accompanied by her governess Miss Betty.
Le Bal tells the story of an over-bearing mother and her 14 year of daughter.
Snow in Autumn is, like her brilliant novel, Suite Francaise, a story of refugees seeking to escape war.
Snow in Autumn is the story of an upper class family escaping the Russian Revolution, first to Odessa and then on to France, settling finally in Paris.
The glue that holds the story together is an old servant who has been with the family for over fifty years.
Antoinette grows up under the oppressive and strict discipline of her wealth Jewish parents (made so by the stock market) in Parisian, France society in the 20’s.
Le Bal provides an opportune novel for character study’s, because each of the few characters in the story are boldly dramatic and well-defined.
Textual engagement and creative writing would also be brought from having students take the perspective of Antoinette, who is writing a letter to her parents several years later to show how the story could further be resolved.
I LOVED the title story, it was just so beautifully written.
The whole collection of stories were beautifully well written, but this one just really got me.
I also LOVED LOVED LOVED Ida. It was so incredibly sad, it was about this sad aging Folies Bergère type dancer who everyone thinks looks so young and then all of a sudden starts to turn on her.
Again, let me reiterate how beautifully written these stories were; I think it was the first book in French that really impacted me like an English book, and on top of that, I don't think I could have even enjoyed it more if it had been written in English!
The engineer of the event is the mother of the family, and the night of the party is being depicted through the narration of her teen aged daughter, who is denied even an appearance in the ball in fear of social embarrassment.Iréne Némirovsky’s writing feels very modern even after 80 plus years, and the conflict between a superficial mother and her bitter daughter turns into pretty interesting drama and works to an extent as a satire underneath all the angst.Némirovsky has been accused of rather obvious nihilism, and that is indeed a part of “Le Bal” as well.
glad that I've came across with this book, its such a delicate and insightful reading about immature mind and feelings of a girl and a smart revenge and brilliant way she get her revenge on life.
its a story about a girl and her world and an event about to happen, which is a ball, such a social event for rich people to interact which her mother is really looking forward to be accepted into the class system at the time.
could be only another story about a girl and her feelings but the elements of the narrative captivates you from the start.
The Ball is a short story about a nouveau riche family in France.
Antoinette exacts her revenge in a terrible and yet funny way.Snow in Autumn is the story of the Karine family and their exile to Paris during the Russian civil war.
Both of these stories were great reads, but in different ways, and they reflect Némirovsky's French, Jewish, and Russian/Ukrainian/Belrussian sides.
Her talent at characterization and creating a lively story about characters who aren't always nice people are a relief after some of the other things I've been reading lately.
These two novellas are strong stories,with most of the story within the protagonist's head.
In Le Bal, a nouveau riche couple plan to hold their first ball, but don't include their young teen daughter in the invitations.
As we look at things from young Antoinette's point of view as she exercises revenge for her mother's dismissive attitude, we see the desparation for acceptance of Madame Kampf, the relationship between the Kampf's and their social situation.In the second story, we look at things from the point of view of a devoted servant, who has served the Russian aristocratic family for years, and emigrates with them to Paris.
My second Nemirovsky.
The first, Le Bal, concerns a nouveau riche couple who attempt to give their first ball, inviting all the movers and shakers of Paris in order to cement their social standing.
However the wife has a very fractious (emotionally abusive?) relationship with her 14 year old daughter, whom she will not allow to attend the ball.
Consequently her daughter decides to take revenge.
The second novella centres around a White Russian family and their long-standing nanny.
Le Bal and Snow in Autumn are two novellas by Irene Nemirovsky, the author of Suite Francaise.I didn't care much for Le Bal. It's the story of a nouveau riche family desperately trying to be accepted into high society.
The language reflects the mother's character.
Moreover, the mother's character was so one-dimensional!
I rated this two star, nothing more.In contrast, I would give Snow in Autumn five stars.
The story is told from the point of view of the old - and much beloved - nanny.
The story is poignant: filled with love, sorrow, and longing.
"It was at this moment, this fleeting moment that their paths crossed 'on life's journey'.
Check out the spinster piano teacher who immediately checks to see if her invitation to a ball is printed or engraved...
amazing little details like this really sell the story.I preferred "The Ball" to "Snow in Autumn" in that the first had more suspense and a stronger storyline.
It's about a fourteen-year-old girl who is not given permission to appear at her mother's ball, and exacts a terrible revenge by throwing almost all the invitations into a river.
The second is more a slice-of-life deal about Russian emigres now living in poverty.Well worth checking out.
Le Bal tells the story of a young girl, Antoinette Kampf, who lives with her parents in an opulent apartment in Paris.
She has a difficult relationship with her mother, Rosine.
Rosine has had a rather shady past, and is equally as determined as her husband to be "accepted" into French high society.
The daughter is thrilled at the prospect; however, her mother has no intention of letting her go to the Ball.
Antoinette feels betrayed by her mother, and by her Governess, Miss Betty, who is seeing a young man secretly.
Finally, Antoinette makes a decision that will wreak a terrible revenge upon her mother.
These two contrasting novellas make perfect bookends.Le Bal is a snapshot of a family which should n
When I finished reading Suite Francaise, I told myself I was going to read everything and anything Irene Nemirovsky had written.
With Le Bal & Snow in Autumn, I'm starting to make good on that promise.
The first one, Le Bal, is about a young teenager name Antoinette and her selfish, abusive mother.
I really enjoyed Le Bal … I thought Nemirovsky did a wonderful job of illustrating the emotions of both women; it was believable and realistic, and kept me interested from beginning to end.
The second novella, Snow in Autumn, didn't grab me.
I just couldn't get into it and didn't bother finishing it.
While lacking the punch of Suite Francaise or Fire in the Blood, these two novellas provide a snapshot of the lives of their characters.
The family in "Le Bal" is certainly not sympathetic, but the story makes you feel like you've stepped into their living room to watch their atrocious behavior.
"Snow in Autumn" looks quite empathetically at the travails of a Russian family fleeing the Revolution.
This story gives a face to the side usually cast as the enemy.Both novellas are definitely worth a read for a look at another time and place, from another perspective.

