https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1322303.The_Fox_and_The_Hound
It seems rather petty to vow to dedicate your entire life towards hunting down a fox that got your pet dog killed.
The Fox and the Hound was one of several books they pulled from the shelves at my elementary school (ironically they left Where the Red Fern Grows alone, and that was the one that had a dog getting disemboweled alive on a thorny tree branch).
What I liked about the novel is that, as dark as it was, it's not just a straightforward man-and-his-dog type story.
#I’M A CRYING DISASTER   BEWARE: This is NOT a disney story. So I'm gonna use gifs cause after reading this novel I think I deserve a little bit of happinness.This is the story about a fox named Tod And a hound called CopperTod is a red fox kit, raised as a pet by one of the human hunters who killed his mother and litter mates.Copper, a bloodhound crossbred, was once the favorite among his Master's pack of hunting dogs in a rural country area. However, he now feels threatened by Chief, a younge
He begins to delight in taunting them until one day Chief breaks his chain and chases him, Tod flees along a railroad track while a train is approaching and Chief is killed by the train.This is the part where things start to get ugly.(view spoiler)[With Chief buried and Master crying over a dead dog he trains Copper to ignore all foxes except for Tod.Meanwhile Tod mates with an older, experienced vixen who gives birth to a litter of kits.But before they are grown, the Master finds the den and kills them.The time pass and Tod takes a new mate, with whom he has another litter of kits.
This is the book the disney classic is based on but you got to hand to the House of Mouse, no one mangles a story like they do in the name of family entertainement.Whereas the film is a story of friendship that survives depite circumstances in a way almost reminiscent of Romeo and Juliette, the book is more about the daily struggles of a fox and a dog (and up to a certain point the Master) in a world that changes around their ears in which they don't quite fit.I only recall the Dysney movie very vaguely (last time I saw it I must have been all of 6 years old).
I probably know more about the movie because of the wikipedia synopsis I read than from I can remember.
I have vague recollections that it was a pretty sad movie but I actually chocked up reading this book.
The life of a red fox over the years as he survives hunters, trappings, hounds, human encroachment, drought, and the hound who’s hunting him.The story takes places from two points of view: Tod the fox, and Copper the hound.
The train kills Chief, and from then on Copper’s master wants Tod dead.For the rest of the book, Tod is hunted and chased, his family is murdered twice, and the hunter tries to trap him, but he survives.
Copper is eager to help hunt and kill because it means he gets to be useful, earn his master’s favor, make him happy by tracking scents and finding prey.
Did you know this was a book? Me neither! It bears very little resemblance to the Disney movie (which is also one of my all-time favorites - it's actually kind of funny seeing how they pieced various parts together out of order/context to create said film). But even so, it is its own kind of incredible animal story, and fully deserving of its award.
One of my all-time favourite works of xenofiction. No mere talking animals musical is this: the book really explores what it would actually be like to be a beast of smell and sound over the beasts of sight us humans are. Gripping, exciting, beautiful, and sad. Damn shame it's out of print - snap it up if you can.(Date finished a rough guess; I've read it several times since.)
Written in the point of view of a foxhound. The first book I have ever read in an animal's pov. There are a few pages of a wolf's pov in "Ordinary Wolves" by Seth Kantner. So vivid that even after putting the book down, I tended to see things, notice them, at a dog's height. One of the first books I read in English. Profound.
Very easily the best xenofiction novel I've ever read.
This is an authentic and detailed account of two animals who act and think like real wild animals.
They live and hunt and mate and reason like an animal would.Can we ever really know what takes place in an animal's mind?
But from reading the author's afterword and knowing the research that went into this story, I believe this is about as accurate as we'll get.The Fox and the Hound is less of a story and more of a journey.
So the book is about a fox and a hound.
The fox is named Tod he was abandoned at birth well not abandoned just like Bambi his mom was shot by a hunter.
And this little fox gets taken cared by the this old lady.
And he meets a hound dog named Cooper and they become friends.
Until Cooper and his master leaves that winter to go hunting.
I felt so bad for Tod he was already lonely.
Then the old lady leaves him the wild by himself.
I felt so bad for him.
Though he meant a lady fox.
Oh.As a kid, The Fox and the Hound was one of my favorite movies.
I knew going into the book that at the root of the story we have two similar animals, with different perspectives...but I thought they were supposed to be friends?
Tod and Copper, buddies even though they aren't supposed to be?!No. Not at all.
The book is just...the life of a fox.
And Copper trailing him.
Terrible.Just take my heart, rip it out and step on it, why don't you?I'll be watching both of "The Fox and the Hound" movies this weekend and then...The Black Cauldron.
I had to search for over five years to get a copy of this.
It cost me much more than any of my other books.And it was all worth it.I don't think I ever cried as hard over any book as this.
It was amazing!It's so well written and I grew very attached to both, Tod and Copper, even though I was rooting for Tod.The ending was (view spoiler)[so heartbreaking!
My eyes still get wet thinking about it.
(hide spoiler)] excellent!
I hate it when a story is great and the end just doesn't do it.
Not in this book!
This books does not deserve five stars. Five stars can't even begin to touch it. It deserves 10, 15, 100. Easily one of the best novels I've ever read. I've just finished and I'm left breathless, heartbroken, and in awe. Why oh why is this out of print? Like many other readers I have a pretty solid list in my head of my all time favorite books, and this one just caused an earthquake. There's been a shift, a grand one, and this story has secured its spot in my heart and on the top.
I thought this was a good book I would recommend it to everyone. It is about a dog and fox that grow up being friends and as they get older the dog's owner trains the hunting dog to hunt fox.
A great read. It's been years since I've read it.

4.5 stars. It was a little slow at times and I wondered if I would even finish it, but man did it leave me satisfied at the end. It leaves such a HEAVY and lasting impression. What a truly passionate and educated author!
Not the Disney movie. Depressing ending that will rip you apart. But very good and interesting story. Worth the heartache and pain at the end.
It’s definitely a YA book and had I read it when I was younger I might have enjoyed it much more.
This was pretty intense book.
But Copper the hound and his master continually have new tricks up their sleeve, and it's only a matter of time before Tod and his family can no longer outrun a pack of bloodhounds.Even compared to all my other Disney source material read-through selections, this book was an interesting experience, for many reasons.
I also felt like I was being suddenly preached to in the last 25 pages or so, which I just wasn't expecting, and which I didn't think was very fitting with the rest of the story.I have no idea who first read this book and decided it would make a great Disney movie, because that's definitely not the feeling it left me with (but it did anyway, so maybe what do I know?).
Mannix is a realistic telling of the story of a young fox who struggles to survive in a world where he lives in content danger from man and hound.
It follows his adventures, his curiosity and cunning, while he has many run in's with the hound Copper and his master along the way.By realistic I mean that the their is no actual dialog, the character's are treated as animals as the author Daniel P.
They do not think like humans, like you would read in most other animal themed books, the author really tries to write from the perspective a animal would see the world, not just writing about a fox with a human's mind.
Copper wants nothing more than to track down Tod so that his master can kill him -- and it stays as straightforward as that.The book mostly follows Tod's perspective as he grows, mates, ages, and eventually dies.
My tastes in this regard haven't changed much -- When I'm about to read an "animal book," I still look for quotation marks, knowing I'll enjoy the book more if the animals talk.
However; the similarities just about end at there being a fox called Tod, a dog called Copper, and a hunter trying to kill the fox.In the Disney film, Tod and Copper are best friends but eventually realise they come from different worlds and go their separate ways.
It is a story of a hunter and his dog trying to get revenge for the death of the hunter’s other pup that died in the process of tracking the fox – happens in the first chapter so not a spoiler.What I LOVED about this novel, among other things, is that the story is told from both Tod and Copper’s perspectives, alternating every chapter or so.
I like the Disney movie alright and probably heard that this was darker, but I probably did not expect to be quite this dark.
It is like "Deliverance" mated with "Watership Down," producing a raw book that rides on the sense of smell from the point of view of a fox and a hound who are lifetime foes.
I am glad I did not shell out the $100 for it, the average price of a good paper copy.I am not too surprised that the author wrote another book on the history of torture.
There is a fox named Tod and a hound named Copper, that is where the similarities end.
The book is told from two perspectives, sometimes from Tod's perspective and sometime's from Copper's.
Much of this book is about a clever fox out witting and escaping various dangers, including the hunters and dogs who are after him.
The fox, however has a series of tragedies and both the dog and fox are effected by the changing nature of the new housing development that goes up around them.
The beginning and middle are at times very plodding and I had to skip over large parts containing Copper tracking Tod and the various sensory aspects associated with that.
Reviewed by A Simple Taste for Reading:The Fox and The Hound, before you read let me tell you that this is not the Disney version but it is what the movie is derived from.
In the Disney film, Tod and Copper are best friends but eventually realize they come from different worlds and go their separate ways.
It is a story of a hunter and his dog trying to get revenge for the death of the hunter’s other pup that died in the process of tracking the fox.What I loved about this novel, among other things, is that the story is told from both Tod and Copper’s perspectives, alternating every chapter or so.
I read it in grade school, and it stuck with me.
The book is written from the perspective of both the fox and the hound, and was pretty well-done.
In the latter part of the book, the world around them was changed by "Progress", again described through the animals' senses.
I could relate to this story; I've foxhunted many years ago, and have since watched the foxhunters become old men and few, and seen the fields and woods sprout houses and stores full of city folk with no sense of the land they live on.
For all that (and maybe because of that), it is a good read.
Having been one of the few people today to have not seen the Disney adaptation, I went in to this with no bias.
It is not a happy story, and I have no clue how the Disney version could possibly sell this off as a children's story without changing numerous portions of it.
Most kids would have left the theater bawling, if they kept it true to the book, but the few that didn't may have learned some harsh life lessons.If you can stomach the dark imagery, I think everyone old and young should try and read this, but don't expect to leave it with a good feeling afterwards.
This children's classic book is a book for students around the ages of 8-12.
This book is a great image and great story to explain and read to children that makes sure the moral is: not to judge a book based on it's cover.
This book ensures that by not judging someone based on what they do makes sure that it is important to really realize how short life is and if you don't get to know certain people because they are different colors, etc.
Students would extremely benefit from this type of book in so many different ways.
I enjoyed the "chase" aspect of this book with the dog hunting the fox and the fox outrunning them all.
I also liked the way Copper viewed humans and certain objects in his world, and how Tod viewed them as well.
However, I feel a little partial to the Disney version.
It was a little sappy, but also had a very strong message.
I also thought that in the book, making Chief Copper's enemy didn't really spur Copper to hunt.
I just felt that, in the Disney version, making Chief Copper's mentor and companion only made Copper's personal desire to hunt Tod even stronger.
