https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/188485.Freddy_Goes_to_the_North_Pole
http://www.pussreboots.pair.com/blog/...
The Freddy the Pig books are never in a hurry.
They tend to just pick up whatever thread falls across the stage in the first few chapters and follow it to see where it goes.
One thing leads to another and they end up traveling to the North Pole, where they rescue Santa from a whaling crew who are determined to systematize the whole Claus operation - with the best of intentions, of course.
Almost everyone in the Freddy books has the best of intentions, and the few villains that exist always turn out to be selfish and small-minded.
The joy with his stories come from a combination of great characters (Jinx the cat, Mrs. Wiggins the cow, Charles the rooster and his hen-pecking wife, Henrietta), a matter of factness from tone (this is a world where people just accept that the Bean Farm animals can talk, they think it’s a bit odd but they accept it) and an adept weaving of complex “adult” concepts into fun, breezy plots with just the right touch of suspense.
If a kid doesn’t understand what a “constituent” is before he starts reading, he will by the time Brooks is through.
I would have quit this book long before it's conclusion had my kids let me. A precipitous drop-off from Freddy Goes to Florida. The story drags and is rarely humorous. Don't bother.
There are some odd themes in this book, that I’d rather have avoided. Among those, the animals rescue two children who were tied to bedposts and regularly beaten and abused. Nevertheless, my son was hooked on the audiobook.
Fresh back from their trip to Florida, Mr. Bean's barnyard animals, under the leadership of Freddy the Pig, decide to put their experience to good use and establish Barnyard Tours, Inc to provide the same excitement and adventure - on a slightly smaller scale - for all of the neighborhood animals.
All is not well at the Pole, though, and it will take all of the animals' ingenuity to save Christmas and Santa's happiness before they return to Mr. Bean's farm.
Hooray!" (-The Philadelphia News) or the one who said, "Welcome back, Freddy, you paragon of porkers." (Washington Post Book World.) Some examples of that very humor are seen in my favorite quotes:"Ella and Everett were very happy.
My kids (ages 5, 5, and 6) and I listened to this in the car--all enjoyed it immensely. There were a few things that threw me off (although the premise of talking animals taking a trip to the North Pole somehow seemed believable :-) ), but on the whole it's a great adventure. I like how Brooks has made each animal character's personality so in keeping with what we humans already assume that particular animal species is like.
I have the distinct recollection of having read this somewhat recently, so I must have found it in a library. I am delighted to add it to my collection because - Santa Claus, sailors, animals - how can you go wrong?
All the Freddy books are wonderful. These are great books to listen to on CD when you're traveling with the kids. When my son was 11 we listened to Freddy and the Flying Saucer Plans on a drive from DC to Cape Cod. All of us loved it! This book combines 2 things I love (animals & Santa Claus).
i liked it
Weird series, similar to Animal Farm
a good Christmasy book(or not).
i liked it
