https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/384597.Arcadia
She carries pieces of her children.
Even things that we think are lost irrevocably have a tendency to turn up again (and again and again – if only we had the perspective to see it happening).“We shed as we pick up, like travelers who must carry everything in their arms, and what we let fall will be picked up by those behind.
Mathematical discoveries glimpsed and lost to view will have their time again.”These are just a small fraction of the thoughts which were awakened to vivid clarity in me by this deceptively short, two act play.
(view spoiler)[And after all that... it all ends in people waltzing, oblivious to it all going up in flames. I endlessly, endlessly love this play. (hide spoiler)]
The Waltz of TimeReading Iain Pears' brilliant novel  Arcadia  just now, I wondered how it might have been influenced by Tom Stoppard's 1993 play of the same title, which has been described [in the article I shall cite below] as "maybe the greatest play of our age." Answer: very much, and yet hardly at all. Stoppard casts his play of ideas as a drawing-room comedy—or rather two comedies alternating in the same room, the one beginning in 1809, the other in 1990. Pears infuses his ideas into a mel
"It's a moment that shows the power of the play of ideas to fuse together concepts and characters into a theatrical grenade.
This final scene is the waltz that takes place inside all of us -- of our ancestors dancing with our present, of reason dancing with irrationality, and of hope dancing with despair, as the roaring, crackling sound of the heat-death draws ever closer." The rest of the article is that good; the play is even better.======Plays are meant to be seen on the stage, so why read them on paper?
When Stoppard tries to write about chaos theory, he fails to mention the central concept -- sensitive dependence on initial conditions (the famous "butterfly effect") and its appearance even in simple systems -- and instead only tells the audience that chaos has something to do with iterated maps.He mentions that iterated maps can produce fractals that look very much like realistic mountains, leaves, ferns, etc., and implies that the failure of 18th/19th-century dreams of predictability has something to do with the failure to use these realistic, fractal models of objects in physics calculations.
I first encountered this play my freshman year of college, and here I am in my final semester, reading it once more.
If you have read this play yourself, you might see the beauty and significance in that duality.
Tom Stoppard is a complete genuis.The play follows two time periods, the early 1800's and a contemporary setting, both in the same exact location, an English manor house.
Stoppard plays with the convention of having the set stay the same throughout the play, no matter the time period, as well as the accumulation of objects from both periods on the table in the center of the stage.
The only play I've ever read that made me want to be an actor, however briefly--just for long enough to speak some of Stoppard's incredible lines.
Most of the characters are so brilliant or academic, so immersed in their intellectual pursuits that you'd expect to be bored to tears--but Stoppard makes them engaging, endearing, human and hysterical without turning them into caricatures.
But can I just clarify that they've neglected to include the funniest bits - probably something to do with keeping it PG.Arcadia is a play of breathtaking scope and so masterfully structured.
The cerebral language (and algorithms) can be quite challenging, but the splendour of Arcadia is so much more accessible on a reread so I strongly urge you to give it a second go if the first time left you a bit baffled.
Mathematical discoveries glimpsed and lost to view will have their time again.
You do not suppose, my lady, that if all of Archimedes had been hiding in the great library of Alexandria, we would be at a loss for a corkscrew?Stellar writing, just a spot under-fed.
I would've appreciated more bulk, more fury -- some Sturm und Drang .
Alas a two-tiered production featuring landed aristocracy, precocious children and the ribald aura of Lord Byron.
Ruminating over these historical effects almost 200 years later in the same room are a rasher of academics, including a physicist.
There are some stunning lines here.
It delves into chaos theory and questions how much our knowledge is limited by the time we have and the speed at which we can process information.
It asks the question 'what is trivial and what is important' and may cause you to re-examine your previous opinions on the matter (it certainly had me looking at things in a new light).
There's even a love story tucked away in amongst all the brain-wrenching bits, so that's nice.Being a Stoppard play, it is obviously very clever and full of wordplay (OK, and some quite groan-worthy puns, but I'm a sucker for a good pun).Most importantly of all, there are two tortoises...
But the truest voice of Tom Stoppard may belong to Thomasina Coverley, the 13 year old math prodigy, radiant with the prospect of all there is to know, passionate with grief over knowledge already squandered, all the possibilities of life (both intellectual and emotional) still before her.
It says a great deal, I think, about Stoppard that this should be so, because in another sense ARCADIA is a play that could really only be written in middle age, evoking the magical optimism of youth with the hard-won wisdom of maturity and a wry compassion for human fallibility.
The point is, I really don't like it when an author tries to shove a Big Idea into a shape that will fit his agenda, not caring if it, you know, doesn't.
However, Thomasina's discovery of fractals (which Stoppard just calls iterative algorithms for some reason) and fractals as a kind of "metaphoric shape" of determinism is interesting.
Or maybe the sex just didn't appeal to me because the characters were more the author's personal ideas than real people, and rather than be interested in their relationships, I felt trapped in a Tom Stoppard masturbatory fantasy?
Stoppard explores many different themes and contrasts such as past and present, and order and disorder.
Much of the play centers around time - research about history and attempts of predicting the future with an equation, and the exceptions that make it impossible.
The concept of order vs chaos theory is explored in different ways, both in personal feelings and physical disorder (the table in the center of the room that collects objects from both time periods).
This is a play for people not wanting to be served answers, but prefer to interpret and form their opinions along the way.
The fact that it is so highly praised in so many circles confirms, to my mind, that the arts, like the rest of our culture, are utterly degenerate.Kurt Vonnegut once described the job of a writer as being "a good date." With "Arcadia," Stoppard wears too much cologne, won't stop talking about himself, blows smoke in our face, farts in the elevator, and seems to think that going Dutch is the height of romance.I keep picturing a reasonably well-educated audience shelling out $50-plus per ticket only to find out that they should have studied up on the landscape architecture of the early 19th century, the minutia of Lord Byron's dissolute indiscretions, and the basics of chaos theory.
یه نمایشنامهی پستمدرن که حس میکنم جنبههای اجرایی جذابتری داشته باشه نسبت به متن! مخصوصاً صحنهی هفتم نمایشنامه... البته از ترجمهی خیلی بد خانم سیمین زرگران هم نباید گذشت! نمایشنامه به شدت پر از اصطلاحات و تعاریف و تفسیرهای علمیه که مترجم از پس برگردانیش به فارسی برنیومده و خیلی از جملات گنگه!
یه نمایشنامه‌ی پست‌مدرن که حس می‌کنم جنبه‌های اجرایی جذاب‌تری داشته باشه نسبت به متن! مخصوصاً صحنه‌ی هفتم نمایشنامه... البته از ترجمه‌ی خیلی بد خانم سیمین زرگران هم نباید گذشت! نمایشنامه به شدت پر از اصطلاحات و تعاریف و تفسیرهای علمیه که مترجم از پس برگردانی‌ش به فارسی برنیومده و خیلی از جملات گنگه!
I think the intricacies of this play are best enjoyed through performance not reading, especially the last acts when centuries cross. There were several laugh out loud lines I rather enjoyed. However, the plot lines of sexual interference, science and math theory, and Lord Byron were just too twisted within the time warp for me to keep straight. I'd much rather see this on stage. I think I'd highly praise its unique direction.
Although reading a play, rather than seeing it in a theater (especially with the quality of actor and actress that Tom Stoppard's work usually brings onstage), is like judging food made with only half the ingredients of the recipe.
And perhaps it is these other works that make me so disappointed with "Arcadia." When I read "Rosencrantz and Guilderstern" it was with the excitement of discovery, of seeing a fresh path for English-language theater away from the enclosed family tragedies of O'Neill and the even more enclosed explorations of private failure of Beckett and Pinter.
Scenes alternate between these periods, a fresh set of characters inhabiting each.
If all of this sounds terribly cerebral, Stoppard weaves these issues into a fabric that is also highly personal, intensely human, with fascinating characters working out the daily personal and professional agendas that are familiar to us all.The reader or playgoer will leave this work only apparently, for its issues, insights, and questions will haunt him long after he attempts to turn to other concerns.
I listened to the audio version of this in the car and just loved it.
It's so clever, and keeps you on your toes trying to figure out the relationships and what's going on.
It was sometimes a little tough to figure out the voices and who was speaking, but I'm pretty sure I got most of it.The words and ideas in this are just so beautiful.
It's a story about science concepts and historical dialogue, and looking into the past from the present as best one can.
It's a fascinating study in how it's entirely possible to put together the clues from the past entirely wrong.
Brilliant. I'd had no idea. (I mean, I had an idea of Stoppard's genius, but why'd I wait so long to read this play?) Erudite and multi-leveled: Enlightenment rationality and science (chaos, Newtonian geometry, English gardens) against/with Romantic literature and art (Lord Byron, high emotion, beauty, sex, and wild nature). Indelible characterization. And so, so funny.
Hmmm... lots to think about in this two act play! Despite Stoppard's wonderful touch with the one-line quips and ripostes, this play isn't really a comedy. Within the humor there are some serious ideas regarding how academics interprete artifacts to construct a version of the past and whether the world/universe is determinate or chaotic.I would love to see a production of this!
Historical research, Newton’s laws of physics, romance... what’s not to love!? Stoppard outdid himself with Arcadia. Even outside a classroom setting, this play has high returns - even for a casual read.
If they did this as a musical like Hamilton I bet it would be even more popular.
It was a version of the class Patton Oswalt describes in his "Physics for Poets" bit: we, the liberal arts students, learned big science concepts by reading plays that featured science and scientists.
He gave us concepts like they were stories, and that was awesome.This was also the first Stoppard I read (I saw the film version of Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead when I was in middle school and understood NOTHING partially because I hadn't even read Hamlet at that point)(I had seen The Lion King, though, so?), and it made me think big.
But Stoppard is never ashamed of how smart he is.) I finally got a chance to see a production (Broadway 2011) and in preparation I re-read the play.
It juxtaposes scenes from two different time periods, early 19th century and present day England.
In the present day Hannah Jarvis is researching a mysterious hermit who once lived at the estate, and Bernard Nightingale wants to prove Byron killed Chater in a duel.In the final act the two time periods come together, unseen characters from the two time periods act together oblivious to each other's presence.
There is a beautiful and clever eb and flow of time in the last scene when two couples from the different time periods are dancing side by side.
The past dancing with the present.
It explores ideas in mathematics and physics, and the play itself loops around in a recursive way, such that characters from the present echo those in the past; it pokes fun at academic research and fashion in literature and landscape gardening; and it manages to contain both great one-off quips and thought-provoking ruminations without either feeling forced.
She, her tutor Septimus, and the present-day scholar Valentine get some of the best lines, but it's stuffed full of great lines.
I'm not big into theater, but after listening to this, I really yearn to see it performed.ETA: And today (11/29/2018) I got to see a production at UMass Amherst--very nicely done; liked the Nightingale character especially.
I enjoy plays that are able to play with historical characters and ideas and connect them to bigger themes, I enjoy the play of contrasting (or apparently contrasting) ideas like poetry and science, Romanticism and Enlightenment,etc especially when the author is able to complicate the black and white into gray and I enjoy plays that are able to connect people or ideas separated by time.
Maybe it's the characters that I couldn't connect with, or the themes which ended up feeling as heavy-handed as they sound, but overall it pontificated what it wanted to show.
Stoppard's wit and craftsmanship infuse every line. This is an absorbing exploration of the differences between the Romantic and Classical temperaments--between feeling and thought--as well as an investigation into the connections between science and literature, all shaken and linked by the unifying disruption of sex. It's a tour-de-force that requires your share of creative work, but also makes you laugh out loud. (Jeff B., Reader's Services)
I'm not typically a large fan of plays, but this is written quite excellently. It reads as easily as a novel and had my attention. There are many smart references to literature, history, and the arts. This will easily be one I read again...definitely a novelty for me when it comes to plays.
Bettie's Books
It would certainly benefit from multiple readings but I'm amazed at how Stoppard is able to craft such a good story around such subjects.
I would have read a 500 page script if it kept the quality of those 85 pages.One of my favorite dialogues from Arcadia is Septimus explaining the nature of time and discovery.“We shed as we pick up, like travellers who must carry everything in their arms, and what we let fall will be picked up by those behind.
Mathematical discoveries glimpsed and lost to view will have their time again.
