https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20502.The_Negative
I wouldn't be able to say "i've finished reading this book'. This series: "the Camera", "the Negative", and "the Print" is a Bible for darkroom printer, so I go back and forth to this book.
Adams was renowned for the exquisite quality of his prints, and it's easy to see why he achieved such magnificent results from this series of books; he was a consummate perfectionist who spent a lifetime honing his craft.Some of the principles in this book apply exclusively or mainly to black and white film photography, some are more widely applicable. Adams' presentation is extremely clear and easy to understand, his style is unaffected yet engaging, and his choice of images to illustrate each technique or principle is always interesting and sometimes inspiring. This is an exemplary textbook!
Of the three Ansel Adams books, I find this one to be the most helpful.
I was suprised at this because the technology of photography has changed so much since it was introduced.Most of the book does not (unlike the first book) focus on the mechanics of the actual negative, but it relies on how light interacts with it.
So it goes over the zone system - every photographers joy and bane - and then natrual and artifical lighting situations.

in terms of a photographic image" and look for "significance, substance, shape, texture, and relationships of tonal values" (p.
Next come the technical, photo-taking steps of "measuring the luminances of the subject and using this information to determine exposure and development, and considering possible further means to control or alter the values in accordance with our visualized image" (p.
7, emphasis added).Chapter 2 Light and FilmAdams tells us that what we see in terms of image values is not what the camera sees, because we perceive electromagnetic radiation (400 to 700 nm, particularly) differently.
The relationship of this light and the visualized print values determines the outcome of the photograph.
Awesome book
Excelente para todo aquel que quiera conocer en profundidad y desde un punto de vista práctico todo lo referente a la película fotográfica, en especial las que tienen emulsión en blanco y negro.
It's all in one word, pre-visualization - but what would you really know if you read that word?The book deals almost exclusively with black-and-white photography and mentions color only in passing.
There needs to be detail in the shadows while the the highlights must not be washed out.Adams talks about light, about exposure and about getting it right.
Still, I didn't know half the concepts that Adams describes in his book.
Adams even explains how to determine the dynamic range of the chip in your digicam.If you want to see what the world looks like from the shoulders of giant, read this book.
What a brilliant book. This is a masterpiece, by a master craftsman. While the details may have changed, the principles have not. These are timeless, and this is what he sets out to demonstrate again.The book is laid out in the most logical manner. The section on the Zone System is a must read for any photographer. His grasp of the subject is masterly, and so is his treatment of the subject.
Many would think that this book is outdated in the age of digital photography.
However, I think this book is still relevant in the digital age.
Just the explanation of the Zone System is worth the price of the book.
Having the Zone System in mind while taking a shot will make a better image.
It is easy to get bogged down in the technical details presented in this book and for the most part I will admit they can be overlooked in this day and age.
Overall, if you are a serious photographer I would recommend this book.

This is the second in Adams' series on photography. It was written before the advent digital photography, yet it is still worth reading. It can be a bit technical and geeky, and one can quickly scan over much of what pertains to the chemical processing. More importantly, Adams gives a thorough presentation of his Zone System, which he came up with 40 years earlier as a solution to figuring out exposure. For that alone, this book is a must read.
Another book by the master of black and white photography. If you are curious about the NEGATIVE and how to perfectly expose your photographs with EXTREME precision, this is your book. The famous ansel adams ZONE SYSTEM is fully explained. The zone system makes this book necessary to black and white photographers. A must read after "the camera".
He admits he's a creative scientist early on, which is fine by me, since photography is barely an art and photographers are the least likely to become artists. The photos inside are pristine, but you'll never find them in wall calendars or on t-shirts with his deified name underneath in some heavily serifed font. This is real photography. This is search and destroy. Voila.
Love this book but unfortunately school reading has halted my investment in this read, but will make time for Ansel Adams... one of my favourite artists of all time.. Timeless beautiful awe-inspiring photos.
Got this from the library. It looks like it's a bit too skewed to film (of course, it's Ansel Adams). I was hoping it was more of a composition technique book, but a lot of the book looks like it talks about film development/lens filter technique. I'll know more about it when I get into it.
I find the information in these three books are still useful for processing in the digital age. If you are willing to take the content for what it was intended you can directly apply it to digital processing techniques. Great books!
The best of the Ansel Adams books I own, even if most of this material is better found on the internet. A lot of the chemicals and materials covered aren't really available anymore, especially the thick emulsion films. Good coverage of the Zone System though.
Ansel Adams isn't the easiest to follow along with, but he's a master of film photography so it's cool to learn from. I think he especially excels at printing, but this was also super helpful to learn what negatives to work with.
lots of darkroom knowledge from the Master
In the preface, this book is referred to as a 'master class in book form'. Indeed it is. Invaluable information from a master with film photography.
I'm probably never going back to film, so this is obsolete for me.
As near a bible as there can be in photography, Ansel Adams' definitive treatise on how to expose and process negatives properly. The basic principles still apply in digital formats.
Film may becoming obsolete, but this information will help with understanding how digital cameras emulate film, if you know what you are doing.
Though almost everything I now shoot is digital, this is a must read for all wannabe photographers. Adams will enter your soul as you practice.
Learned more from this book than any all the other photo technique books combined.
Good text book for film photography. Out of date presently as it is almost all directed toward analog photography. Still, if you do medium or large format, thjis is a great help.
Must read for all those involved in analog photography and more...
Some great content but a little too much is dated as it refers to chemical developing that I no longer do.
