https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/269749.Dying_for_Chocolate
Book Review  3 of 5 stars to Dying for Chocolate, the second installment in the Goldy Bear Culinary Mystery series, by Diane Mott Davidson, published in 1992. I stumbled on to this series after college and quickly purchased the first five or six books to read as quickly as possible. It's one of those series you should read the first few in a row, so you are immersed in the cozy world of fun. And with a title all about chocolate, how could you resist? The recipes in the book look fun and simple
3 of 5 stars to Dying for Chocolate, the second installment in the Goldy Bear Culinary Mystery series, by Diane Mott Davidson, published in 1992.
It's one of those series you should read the first few in a row, so you are immersed in the cozy world of fun.
And when it comes to desserts, I can't make them too often unless I'm giving them away -- or I'll eat the whole thing.This book continues the intro to Goldy and her pre-teen/teen son, a good example of a parent/child relationship post-divorce.
I needed something to read while on a trip, and this book was given to me by my Mom assomething 'light, easy to read when you can't really concentrate, and fun'.
Aside from the name issue, I did like the book and I agree with Mom: it is fun and easy to read.
Besides, Davidson (Goldy?) has a good attitude about chocolate: Opening a wrapped imported chocolate is like a moment from Christmas Eve. Your mouth waters.
Mother will be looking for more of Davidson's books though, so I imagine that someday I will see what else is on Goldy's menu.Meanwhile I whole-heartedly agree with Ms. Bear when she says:Anything tastes good when you wash it down with chocolate.
Goldy has taken a job to be a live-in chef for an older couple. She hopes to avoid the abusive ex. But avoiding him isn’t easy when they share custody of their son.  Meanwhile murder follows her.  Good book with a solid plot.

Warning!
don't read this book if you are on a diet!
This is the first of the Goldy Bear cozy mysteries that I read.
I enjoyed it so much that I went back to the used bookstore and bought more books from the series.
Then I went to the library to read all the copies that they stocked.
These are just fun books to read.
The best part of the stories for me are the descriptions of the food/coffee and the inclusion of recipes!
If you are looking for something to read just for fun, then this series of mysteries fit the bill.
I love listening to this series on cd audio as I drive. Great culinary mystery series and fun to listen to. I am waiting for book 3 in the series to arrive now. I recommend to anyone who likes a good mystery that is not too complicated or "deep".
Although this is just the second book I've read this series is really good and I'm looking forward to many Goldy Bear antics and mysteries
In one of the opening scenes, a middle aged woman hosts an aphrodisiac dinner in an attempt to win back her philandering husband.
Two high school seniors at an aphrodisiac party with two middle-aged couples?
On an up note, I started reading the Goldy Books late in the run, so it was pretty cool to read about the characters as they were years before I "met" them.
This is the third Goldy book I've read, and even though this one was a little disappointing and weird, I am definitely going to read more!
Starting over with the wonderful Goldy Bear series. This is No. 2. Davidson has written 17 books in this series! Eek, I shouldn't have dropped out; I'll never catch up.* * * * *This is a great one. Goldy's relationship with Schulz warms up. As always, Davidson includes yummy recipes.
Fun, fluffy, with a few twists, enjoyable summer read.
A very fun mystery about the caterer, Goldy Bear, and a murder she tries to solve.
It was much better than the first of the series, as it not nearly as full of the heavy history of her abusive husband.
(He played only a minimal part in the story this time.) And I have to say, the author succeeded in leading me astray on who the murderer was almost until the very end.
A light book that is great for a fun read.PS.
The recipes in this book sound devine, and I found myself wanting to stop reading just to go make one of them.
I love mysteries!!! I love chocolate!!! I loved this book!!!
I am really enjoying this series. I listen to the audio version and I think the narrator is awesome.
Guilty pleasure- perfect on audio for road trips!
At this point, I don't know why I am still even reading this series (this is the 6th I've read, obviously not in order). While I enjoy the mysteries, the characters are completely annoying. Goldy whines about everything, Arch is a spoiled brat, and Marla, while not too bad in this one, is a complete busybody, albeit a kind-hearted one. Tom is the only decent person to be found. And I have 5 more on my shelves. *sigh*
Goldy, our catering heroine, takes a live in cook job with General Bo and Adele Farquhar, in Aspen and between them and their neighbors, the well off Brian and Weezie Harrington, I got a bit confused as to whom she actually worked for cause it seemed someone had an event almost every evening!
The book opens at a catering event at the country club and Marla, if you'll recall her from book 1, was married to Goldy's former husband, Richard, and she is also Adele's sister.
Goldy soon hears that Phillip may have been having an affair with Weezie while Brian keeps an eye out on every available female, including Julian's girl, Sissy.
Tom Schultz just doesn't seem like a desirable leading man to me.
The unfortunate Phillip seemed a bit more interesting for the short scenes he had, just because of the looks, his work, and his dialogue dished out more human quirks than ol' Toms.
Arch seemed like a typical child with a mouth when things get stressed but not a bad seed; the general was especially funny in his unusual and quirky ways.
Goldy isn't a humorous fun type of character, but she's an interesting, stressed one.
The bizarre situations among the various catered parties helped create the book, especially when it surrounded the main whodunnit sort of characters that helped keep this story alive.
She caters, but she doesn't have to let the reader know she brought "frozen" anything from home, a very irritating detail that is not needed.
Then she is surprised when he blows up and if he is the kind of man that would break gardening pots at a home he doesn't know, why would she let him know where she is, she left her home because she was so scared of him she was adding a security system.
Then there are SO MANY details on the beautiful Colorado scenery that I finally skiped several pages at a time to avoid the overlong descriptions.
The Goldy Bear mysteries is overall typical of banal mystery paperbacks, but regardless I genuinely enjoy reading it.Spoilers ahoy.Pros of book #2Light, witty, realistic portrayal of mother/son dynamic and dealing with abusive exes and custody sharing.
I really liked the poisoning scene where I'm sure Schultz and Goldy learned a lot more about each other than they wanted to.
Schultz can also be pretty one-dimensional and flat, I wish we could trade his and the psychiatrists' personalities.
And I'm saying this as someone who doesn't generally like sex scenes in a book.
Looking forward to reading #3.
I did like the book and I think the series as a whole is starting to grow on me.
I like her, but hoping to get to know her better with future books.
As the story wore on, I began to get exhausted as Goldy tries to navigate a potential lawsuit, problems with her son and ex-husband, murder, physical injury, an inane vicious food critic, and other things making it seemingly impossible to have the time or energy to shop for groceries or cook anything.
I also don't get how her ex-husband doesn't land in jail or is allowed to be anywhere near his son.
Goldy Bear is the caterer in Aspen Meadows, Colorado.
To protect herself and her son, Arch, from her abusive ex-husband (a well known doctor in town), she accepts a summer job as a live-in cook at a very secure home.
She's seeing a very nice policeman, but has cooled it because she's just started up with Philip Miller, a college flame who's a shrink in town.
The Farquhar's are boarding one of the Prep's schools scholarship kids and Goldy is busy preparing for a decadent dinner party and posh society barbecue.
Although I dislike the name "Goldy Bear," she and her son Arch are very likable.
* "Dying for Chocolate" (Goldy 2) by Diane Davidson puts poison on chocolate, coffee (view spoiler)[ even contact solution (hide spoiler)].
I read this after "Fatally Flaky" with at least one dish from the 11 full recipes in this earlier book.
I could guess how the first murder happened, but not who or why.
I believe I tried her recipe(s) before without success.
Caterer Goldy moves in with friends who have better security after her ex-husband threatens.
After unpleasant meals with neighbors, two nasties end up dead, and she and a local cop who cares about her are poisoned too.
I felt that it was a hindrance to the pace and action of the book.However, some of the new characters were lovable and I hope that they will reappear in future volumes of this series.I felt that the reason for murder was unique and the entire book was unique.
It seemed like a lifetime had passed with everything happening between books, and I felt that it set the entire book into a rut, with Goldy having to explain something every two pages.Overall, however, a great book, and an ideal mystery!
I read this book as part of a reader's choice at my library.
It's book two of a series, so maybe the characters are easier to relate to if you've read from the beginning.
It was weird being engulfed in a time period I actually remember (as opposed to the historical fiction I normally read that is too far back), so it was kind of like a walk down memory lane.
It was okay, but I wouldn't have chosen to read the book of my own volition.
Maybe if I had read it when it was published I would have enjoyed it more.

I've read a number of the books from this series, and this one got to be hard to get through. A lot of the converstations were hard to follow. It was like the author used a random phrase generator for lines in conversation. I would have to keep going back and re-reading a conversation to make sure I was reading what I thought I was reading. However, the story line itself was pretty good.
Truth be told I didn't finish, I got about 2/3 the way through and my dislike of the main character Goldy just grew. She is such a one dimensional character and I never understand why Tom Schultz would be interested in such an aloof person other than potentially for her cooking. I don't even care who dun it any longer.
This one is slightly better than other book of this author I read recently. There is a like bit more mystery. However - I really don't like the main character, she is quite rude, selfish and doesn't see any flaw in herself. Book is rather slow-paced and there were moments I had to struggle with it a little. It idn't seem that cozy all in all...
I have read a number of books in this series, but not in order. So, recently I started from the beginning. This is book number 2. I like these books. Goldie is always cooking, she is a caterer after all, and the food sounds delicious. The recipes are included at the end. A good murder mystery.
This is one of those cookbook mystery novels. Definitely not reading another one of these. Although the end was unexpected there weren't a lot of clues to lead you there. The heroine wasn't really involved in solving the mystery. I will not read another.
