https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85893.Trouble_on_Triton
Trouble on Triton is supposed to inhabit a utopian (heterotopic) future when Earth is no longer the only hospitable planet, where personal expression has evolved through a widened acceptance of differing sexualities, and gender takes on radical new perspectives.
However, Bron frequently expresses extreme irritation when propositioned and even scorns the naked physicality of his male suitors, choosing instead disgust rather than flattery if, say, Lawrence were female, over his prospects despite not being gay.If you don’t mind a book that so openly features the best and worst of human sexuality, gender (and mannerisms in regard to either), definitely pick up Trouble on Triton.
I'm seeing more and more that my perception of what is a novel and what isn't is much more limited than I expected- I think this is a response to reading the beautiful crafts that can come from writing like a tennis player with the net taut, rather than have it sagging and letting all kinds of balls get past- and long, oblique philosophical discussions- that only happen to take place on other planets or moons for reasons unclear- neither seems to me to be a novel, nor really sci-fi.Still, Delany is capable of greatness, and when I'm feeling more adventurous, I'll return to his intellectuo-ethno-sexual ballpits again :)
The cultural and social stuff is pretty simple - Samuel Delany has created here an honest-to-goodness utopia, a world in which everyone can essentially be anyone they want to be.
And Delany places this very modern-seeming man into the far future and into a world where problems of personal identity have been more or less eliminated, and then tells the story of how that modern man of today just can't find his place in it.
This is particularly topical in today's world, isn't it, what with people all being encouraged to embrace their "true selves," whatever that may be.
Delany is one of my favourite writers, but it has taken me a long time to get round to reading this one.
And the society in which Bron has chosen to make his home is constructed with brilliant imagination and attention to detail.
It's a sort of utopia-of-choice, not quite the perfect society but hugely preferrable to our own.Delany is a thought-provoking writer but there is a lot of positive emotional energy in his work too.
*Triton* is the best novel I have read all year.
However, that doesn’t depreciate the book’s relevance.Triton is the story of Bron Helstrom’s struggle to redefine his identity in order to make his life less miserable.
The Spike leaves Bron with a heartfelt, dictated letter that tells him in detail why she cannot like him, and this acts as the catalyst for the decision that offsets the last part of Triton from everything that comes before.I would probably have to provide a play-by-play summary of the entire book to describe in detail the episodes that cause Bron to make his final decision.

But while Triton and the other outer satellites presumably play a vital role as Heterotopia for Terran and Martian societies (though the novel briefly visits Earth and it's hardly a Utopia) they remain targets for a cataclysmic war raging across the solar system.
He's more interested in examining erudite ideas, like metalogic.Brom Helstrom, the novel's protagonist, struggles to find happiness amid a backdrop of war and identity fluidity.
Triton is a book about reading, about knowledge, or, more broadly, human discourse, and in that way it ties in nicely with the surface plot.
I love a lot of it, but in the end it felt just too terrible to spend this much time with bron--i kind of would have been elated with the book just ending after the spike's letter arrives and a Big Event happens in the war?
i think I was just a lot more interested in the spike than in bron's gross ways, and something about the book's ironic ending being like--"the transsexual sits in her bar, and many wish to love her, but she can let no one in" hit pretty hard.
The story here is not set up as a direct analogy, and the subtitle is meant more to position it in dialogue with La Guinn's utopia.Delaney here is not so interested in the minutia of how the government on Tritan functions (though he does sketch in the parts that are necessary) and instead focuses his concern on Bron's experience of the place--moreover, his development as a character within it.
This will all come to a head in his relationship with The Spike, who he will come to resent as his feelings are unrequited.It's really rare (at least in my experience) to find a SF novel that invests this kind of concern in the characters and uses the SF context as a means to develop and push them further.
I understand there are some elements here connected to other Delany books, so I look forward to making my way through them all since I love shit like that (if done well).The particular utopia indicated here takes place on Triton, or Neptune's moon.
But apparently they come up later as well which come up later in his Nevèrÿon series, so I look forward to seeing that as well as any other connections.I really want to like Delany, but so far Dhalgren is the best I've read.
This is one of the things I find interesting about the novel: most science fiction books (at least of a certain kind) tend to focus on these bigger events, like war and politics.
With Delany's method, it is easier to identify Bron's problematic aspects, but (I think) harder to identify him in ourselves.Something that is awesome about Delany, and for which he is well-known for, is his giving queerness a place in literature, and especially in science fiction (which had, until around this time, been notoriously heterosexist).
On another note, there's a lot less gay sex representation in this one (too bad!); but you can always read many of Delany's other novels, if that's what your needing!Info-dumps are another thing science fiction is well-known for.
(Maybe the clearest example is how Sam is introduced?) Anyway so it's interesting seeing the world through this super fractured lens, and also makes you wonder about yourself.Back to the social side; Delany balances his sci-fi-y stuff with his usual desire to cook up progressive, liberal, bizarre societies.
Anyway, I want to give this book 5 stars, but the narrator is really so terrible that you feel miserable reading some parts (it's so convincing that you think "this book is bad" not "this person is bad").
In each of his books I've read he seems more concerned with the relationship between reality and art than with the technicalities of "hard sci-fi." Not that he doesn't fully embrace the genre--this book is most definitely science fiction with its share of technical flamboyance--but I feel that is only his platform to attack greater issues.I'm not sure what I think about his representation of the differences between the sexes in this book.
Sure, the action takes place amidst a war, but the majority of the book was about love and art, and the final quarter is solely about postmodern gender differences.
I taught this novel for a course in Queer and Trans Lit this semester -- it's a thick novel as all of Delany's are, thick with social observations and insights, and was challenging for some students, esp those who haven't read much sf; nonetheless it spurred terrific convos, especially in relation to Giovanni's Room (both novels interrogate toxic white masculinity) and Orlando (ie.
thinking about the possibilities sff affords for thinking through power and oppression, esp i/r/t gender and sexuality), two other novels we've read this semester.
http://www.tor.com/blogs/2008/08/triton
A lot of important people have written their versions of The Good Society; Heinlein has "The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress" (to which "Triton" responds interestingly) and (to an extent, arguably) "Starship Troopers" (mentioned in the ancillary materials to my version of the text); Le Guin has (primarily) "The Dispossessed: An Ambiguous Utopia" (see above) and "Always Coming Home." Ken MacLeod did four very interesting books on the topic (the Fall Revolution series, each installment on a different kind of libertarian society).
you have essentially a very libertarian society where pretty much anything goes and the government really doesn't get to have much say in anything (in an early scene, it's clear you can check at a booth exactly what information the government has on you at any time you want).To that end, Delany has clearly thought out the intricacies of the society and part of the fun of the novel is that going along with Brom as he not only explores the structure of the society but the culture of it as well, so that we get to see the mindset of the people that would live in this kind of place .
Give it a shot if you're looking for an entry point to Delany's full length works.To give a bit more color on the "whiteness" comment above: I'm not strictly talking about skin color, I'm talking more about a mindset.
Everyone who lives on Triton is by this definition "white"; it's a utopia so I suppose everything should be tailored to suit your needs.
But some things cannot be given to you by external forces alone, and Bron really struggles to understand that purpose isn't bestowed to you by another, it must be built up from within.
I love the idea (p.
280) of academically-motivated, counter-performance artists: "As the sculpture had been completed, three artists from a rival school, masked in turquoise but otherwise nude, had rushed into the cafeteria and, with flamers, destroyed the work, charring and melting the plates." Similarly, I found the chaotic description of a gravitational anomaly attack quirky and compelling.
Also, I never quite decided what to do with all the parenthetical statement (it seems that they were meant to indicate linguistic evolution, not unlike The Moon Is A Harsh Mistress, but felt more like the result of a neurological disorder).
DNF at 83 pages. So far I haven't found a plot in this book, which could have been its redeeming feature for me. I didn't connect with the characters, the world or the writing style. Perhaps this wasn't a good place to start with Delaney.

As I recall, the novel begins w/ a street performance group entering the "u-l" wch I think meant "un-lawful" zone or some such.
I've done many a guerrilla 'performance', I've walked down the streets of Baltimore dressed in totally bizarre clothes completely high at 3AM KNOWING that it was always open season on people who looked different, that I cd be killed at any moment, that there was no such thing as police protection for people like me, & knowing that the only thing likely to keep me alive was my alertness, my articulateness, my quick wit, my very audacity, my extremely necessary psychosis.
Although I may have read Delany unknowingly as a kid, it was Jim Gottreich, my favorite high school teacher with whom I and several of his former students maintained relations after graduation, who brought him to consciousness.
Jim had tried reading his Dahlgren, a long novel, and had told us of it on several occasions, conveying an ambivalence in his representations of it.
On the other hand, he found it dense and difficult.
I never dared starting it.I did, however, dare Triton and several of Delany's other, shorter novels.
All of them were stylistically dense and very well written, the author's style often distracting me from the plot.
I wanted to like this book, but rather than develop characters, a plot, or setting, Delany appears to throw a bunch of interesting ideas into a blender and set to frappe.
But in Triton, a fundamentally unlikeable main character wanders through an interplanetary war without witness any of the machinations of power.
Triton society places an emphasis on the diversity of sex and gender, yet total gender and sexual reassignment is a state provided out-patient surgery that is apparently easier than deciding what to wear to dinner.
While some of the fragments are interesting, the book itself is a uncomfortable lump of uncooked ideas, without the redeeming literary qualities of Delany's other works.
One of the least likeable protagonists ever.
Ugh. It was so annoying to read about this character.
My favorite part was when her queer elder friend was finally like "STFU, you selfish asshole." That was really gratifying--not that it changed anything, and her sex reassignment didn't either.
Of course, Bron became a woman because she felt that having been raised/having lived as a man, she could do womanhood better than women.
It should be called Triton: A Novel of Narcissism.
I *was* fascinated by all the gender/sexuality stuff, considering the book's publication date of 1976.
Unflinching critique of heteropatriarchy FTW.
It's just gratingly unpleasant.
Delany writes in a very - for lack of a better adjective - literary fashion. The prose is interesting and often beautiful, the ideas are fun (if occasionally incomprehensible), and there are some really funny interactions between the lively characters. This is my second Delany novel after Dhalgren. Triton has a slightly more conventional plot, but the feeling of trying to keep up with a literary genius is still there. This novel is pretty weird and isn't for everyone, but I really enjoyed the ride.
I started reading this based on a fictional character's (Mor from "Among Others") recommendation. So there's that. The concept is fine, but perhaps a bit dated by now, but I just really hated the main character and pretty much every other character. I guess I don't really care for Delany's style, because I've tried a couple of his other books to the same end. I frankly just found it meandering, self-consciously trite, and just kind of boring. Maybe I didn't get to the good part, but guess I'll never know.
Delany's a fascinating, completely unconventional writer. Not always the easiest to read, but when you're on his wavelength it's a real treat. I found Nova a bit more interesting but this is still a good introduction to him. Triton is full of social- and psychological-sci-fi ideas about gender, sexuality, relationships, and culture. The plot doesn't always hold together in any particular way (if you can even call it a plot) but that's not really its point, either.
If Bron was a spice, he'd be flour.Not only was he sulky and moody, he was one of the most boring characters I've had the displeasure of following. The point of identity and sexuality Delany was trying to make is clouded by the blatant homophobia and sexism that was prevalent throughout the text. The plot moved slower than the Australian Government making a decision, and honestly, the writing was dense and unrelatable.If I could give this book negative stars, I would.
what do you do if your the last of the mysoginists in a sexually liberated world?
