https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13834.The_Realms_of_the_Gods
first, but I woke up one morning and rolled over and grabbed this one for no good reason except it's easier to read paperbacks than hardbacks when you're lying on your side because you don't want to get up, and also because your cat is sitting on your hip.Anyhow.
Seriously, every time Daine and Numair start kissing a part of me goes "OKAY STOP THE PLOT AND JUST KEEP MAKING OUT FOR THE REST OF THE BOOK KTHX".
Also, you have to feel sorry for Numair.)'Falling' is probably my favorite chapter of the whole quartet.
For one thing, Pierce is really, really, really good at humanizing the gods.

3  starsI’ve been sitting on this one for a while. It’s a perfectly lovely ending for a great fantasy series; it’s just that I don’t have too many strong feelings about it. Whereas the ending of the Alanna series felt so relevant to my own life, this one doesn’t resonate as much. Daine’s lessons are important ones: embracing adulthood and independence and saying goodbye to the past. They’re just not lessons that I’ve had to deal with recently. I feel like I am too old for this book. But luckily
It’s a perfectly lovely ending for a great fantasy series; it’s just that I don’t have too many strong feelings about it.
As this last book opens, Daine, Numair, and Kitten are exhausted.
Daine can mind speak with “the people” (animals of every type) and with immortal beings, but never with humans.
I’m pretty sure that Tamora Pierce doesn’t have any ulterior motives with this rule (except to perhaps prevent the complication of Daine being able to read the minds of her human friends), but it nettles me a bit.
[Also read: 29 December 2007, 18 July 2011]Daine and Numair get sucked out of Tortall and into the Divine Realms where they star in, in turn, a travelogue, a romance novel, and the quickest war novel ever.
The war, Daine's other suitors, sicknesses, etc.
Instead, we get 75% of a book about traveling across the Divine Realm and 25% about finishing a war too big for one book.
It's all shoddy craftsmanship to attempt to shore up a relationship that was neither well-planned nor characterized.
(Old enough for the good stuff but young enough to not know any better.)4.
True, it’s a bit of a mess of a book.True, a lot of things are glossed over.Definitely true that Daine and Numair spend too high a percentage of this book in the Divine Realms.But I think I can sort of see where it’s going?
And maybe Daine realizes that while sometimes she still feels a pull to lose herself in the pack, it’s not as strong as it was, and she doesn’t really want to anymore.Anyway, in this version, we get Daine developing friendships, being forced to find her place in Tortall, working with Numair, and learning how to interact with people, not just animals.
In fact, Orzone has teamed up with Uusoae, the goddess of chaos, and together their power threatens to destroy everything Daine knows and loves.Daine may be young, but she and those around her all accept that she has an important part to play in this fight, defending the kingdom of Tortall that became her home four years ago.This final book in Tamora Pierce's THE IMMORTALS series is literally out of this world, with Daine and Numair spending the majority of the narrative in the titular realms of the gods.
I love Pierce, and even though none of her books will be better than the first series (Alana: The First Adventure) about a girl who disguises herself as a boy to become a squire (and eventually, a lady knight: the first such in many hundreds of years in her world of Tortall) I also really like this series.
Pierce is a great author, though life is occasionally a bit too prancing-pony perfect in Tortall: everyone gets along, the Queen is the most beautiful woman in the land, every protagonist ends up with her favorite friend/mentor as a husband in the final book of series.
I thought an awful lot of time was spent with Daine and Numair returning to Tortall.
Tamora Pierce has written some really enjoyable fantasy that has managed to avoid most of the pratfalls I've seen a lot of other young adult novels fall prey to--Mary Sues (depending on your view, Daine could be one or could not), insta-love, romance dominating the story, a lack of background research, no clear idea of surroundings.
The Realms of the Gods is one of my favorite books of all time to be sure.
Pierce weaves a bond in between story and reader that is so strong by the 4th book that you look on the characters as good friends (I haven't yet decided if this is unhealthy...) Numair and Diane's finally, FINALLY, budding romance is all the sweeter because you've been a part of their relationship since the beginning, and you have watched as they've grown closer together.
Not many authors can boast of this kind of love story, and I believe that is why the Realms of the Gods has kept it's position on the Favorite's List.
Gah! This series had to end on a bad note. I had the same problem with this book as I did with Wolf Speaker. Too much interactions with Daine's animals and the gods, and not enough human interactions, furthermore bogged down by the weakest part of Book 1, the war. Tamora Pierce has many strengths in her writing; writing battle scenes and war scenes are not one of them. I find them slow, bogged down, and I easily get confused and lost in the action...and not lost in a good way. Very disappointed in the conclusion.
A war is going on between Tortall, Carthak rebels, Scanran and the Copper Isles. Diane and Numair are charged with fighting many of the immortals. On one such occasion they are fighting some beings called The Skinner's, immortals that kill anything they touch. About to be killed by these creatures, Diane and Numair are pulled through into the Divine Realms. There Diane meets her parents. But both need to find a way back to the human realm to fight the rebels.
I'm so happy with the ending of this book!! I can't wait to read the next series :O
Daine is an overpowered character, we all know that.
Being overpowered, her tales only remain interesting based upon the cast of characters(usually animals) that she befriends and her enemies.Here is where The Realms of the Gods nearly makes a fatal mistake.
It ejects her animal friends for gods and beings with near omniscience.
I get it that he has feelings for her but all that honor is swept so quickly under the rug it's as if you never had to hear about it for three books.Speaking of quick.
Overpowered she may be, unfortunately for us, this is the weakest tale of Tortall.
I enjoyed this series in as much as it was a departure from the "apprentice training" quartets which I read out of order and back to back ( and which was a bit of overkill on the same theme after 8 in a row!)Of the entire series I enjoyed this book the lest.
It took place almost entirely in the Realm of the Gods and so it was quite different than the others.
When I read Immortals the first time around, I remember loving it, but not "LOVING" it the same way I did Protector of the Small.
I literally don't remember the last time I've obsessed over a book this much!
I remember after reading Tamora Pierce for the first time, I sat down with my friend (who had also read the books) and we talked about how Tamora Pierce's characters feel so real - almost like you could bump into them in the street.
It's what makes reading an adventure.I literally cannot wait for Numair's book to be released!!!
There's about one page of desultory, pro forma "oh huh this might be fucked up" discussion, and then EVERYTHING IS APPARENTLY FINE.
EVERYTHING IS NOT FINE.
Honestly, yay for having a girl as your main character in fantasy, but if the price for that is having this shit happen, I THINK I'M OKAY WITH SKIPPING THE LADY HEROINES.
At least when Eddings pulls this shit one, he's writing for adults, two, the characters actually wrestle with it, and three, THEY'RE BOTH ADULTS AT THE TIME.
I'd only read this series once before (compared to my many rereads of Protector of the Small and Song of the Lioness), so I am glad I revisited.
While fun things happen and the Darkings are adorable, I'm still skeptical of the worldbuilding of the Realms of the Gods, and I cannot rate a book with this romance any higher.
Gross.I would say that my reread has revealed to me that my ratings of these books generally decline across the series, with me really enjoying the first two, not so much the third, and being more than a little annoyed by this one.My reviews of the others: Wild Magic, Wolf-Speaker, Emperor Mage
However, even though she is happy to find her family, Numair and Daine both realise that they have to return to their world to help their friends in their battle against Ozorne.
Daine and Numair with help from friends take a dangerous journey to leave the realm.
This is one of the best YA fantasy I have read and I really like the romance in this book as, even though it is a bit obvious, it is a really charming and captivating.
I would recommend this to anyone who likes good fantasy whether it is YA or adult.
There's nothing I can say that will adequately express how I feel about these books and I'm not even going to try. Besides, the fact that I read them all repeatedly (I quit counting after the 10th time) is the highest form of praise I can give anyway. Daine, Numair, and the others are friends as dear to me as any in this world.
Daine was such a wonderful character and I adored her connection with the animals and how all her friends became important one way or the other throughout the series! The world building was immersive and I was so fascinated by the Realms of the Gods! Clearly, I need more Tamora Pierce!!
Graded By: StephanieCover Story: ExoticBFF Charm: Yay to PlatinumSwoonworthy Scale: 10Talky Talk: Well-RoundedBonus Factors: The Darkings, Stormwings, Apocalypse ImageryRelationship Status: Take Me With YouRead the full book report here.
As Leaf would say, Funfunfun.Spoilery thoughts:(view spoiler)[Not sure how I feel about the romance between Daine and Numair.
He is Lord of the Hunt though, so I suppose it's just his nature.I like the themes of nature and choice that wind throughout this book and the rest of the series.
I also liked that no species was entirely good or entirely evil--even the dragons have in-fighting and closed-mindedness to deal with.Gainel was weird, especially since I'm re-reading the Sandman series right now and Morpheus would never be half that kind--at least, not for the vast majority of his existence.
(I think that she had hoped her near death would bring his true feelings out...otherwise she might have turned into a bird and floated to the bottom of the cliff or a monkey and grabbed a branch...but instead she decided to be dramatic and survive a fall that would have broken all the bones and most likely killed any human (luckily Diane is a god)).The battle still continues as Immortals such as Hurroks (bat winged horses), Flying Apes, and Spidrens (Humongous spiders with human heads) all join forces with Orzone for no reason other than the fact that they are evil.
This was incredible and so different from the first three!
I loved learning about the different realms and seeing the gods in their elements.
Daine is just so great- always learning but self-assured, looking out for her friends (two and four legged alike), and just generally being super awesome.
And I loved the darkings!!!!!
I'VE BEEN WAITING.
This series was great.
I can't wait to reread it and Alanna someday.
They're so compelling, with such great emotion, action, and dialogue, that you excuse the slight choppiness and shortness of the books.
It's just compact awesomeness.
Not sure how the other series will even compare ;)
This was the first of Pierce's work that I've stopped reading near the end and just skipped through the rest.
It was so bad.
Honestly, I was thinking in my head most of the time "blah,blah,blah" because that's what it was!
It contained useless plot lines and a waste of a perfectly good herione.
And then to learn Daine had already kissed others and "dated" behind the scenes, good to know!
Thanks for the update on that Pierce!
I think I'm going to take a break from Pierce's work for a while and come back to her series later.
IT SHOULD BE GOOD, i know. I'M JUST NOT IN SITUATION TO READ. I COULDN't ENJOY IT EVEN A TINY LITTLE BIT.
Even given the child narrator who speaks to animals, books one and two possessed a high degree of self-awareness, with well-crafted prose and a tone/plot that bridged age groups incredibly well.But book four's rambling quest through the Divine Realms - a plot contrivance employed very transparently to shove Daine and Numair together for romantic development - resulted in an almost cartoonish interlude in what should have been the most harrowing, battle-oriented novel of the series.
Relatedly, Daine experiences - once again - no internal conflict over the new romance with Numair, a man far older than her and who has acted for years as a mentor and teacher - both which necessitate a power imbalance that required significant discussion on the page.
I don't know how I feel about this book. It was ok I guess. I wasn't very invested in it. And that romance 🤪 *cringe* I knew it was coming but I still wasn't prepared for it.
(hide spoiler)]I really loved how diverse the realm of the gods were, and thought that Numair and Daine's travels throughout it was pretty great, and I especially loved the darkling companions that they picked up along the way.
I really love soot sprites and I loved these guys so much as a result :|The development of the relationship between Numair and Daine was great, and (view spoiler)[while I am 100% here for their romantic relationship, the age gap IS a tad leery...
(hide spoiler)]I DID really enjoy the reunion thing at the end, but my questions about Kit are going to haunt me and that brought down my overall enjoyment of the novel as a result 8'D
I think this is my least favorite book Pierce has every written and raises a few concerns.
The most obvious issue that I (and many others here have) is the whole Numair and Daine relationship.
And furthermore it is presented as a romantic star-crossed relationship instead of a vastly inappropriate abuse of trust.
Another issue I have is Daine's relationship with her parents.
Also, I've griped about this before, Daine's self-righteous condemnation of her father hunting creatures that can be reborn is just obnoxious when she still doesn't embrace a vegetarian lifestyle and spends plenty of time eating animals who can't.
