https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/375701.Aku_Aku
Thor Heyerdahl is an excellent story teller.
That doesn't mean he's not an excellent story teller, too.
Aku Aku is about his year living and researching Easter Island and its enigmatic statues.
His patient narrating of the individuals who live on Easter Island are what make this book so charming, not to mention there's just so much about the island itself that you don't know, whether you think you do or not.
Because he lives a year on the island and there is so much to do and so many colorful characters, the writing is leisurely, a bit less snappy than, say Kon-Tiki.

Thor Hammers Dead HorseThor Heyerdahl and his companions took a risky trip aboard a balsa raft from Peru to Polynesia in 1947.
Definitely don’t believe that they prove very much else.
Heyerdahl early on conceived the theory that the Polynesian isles of the South Pacific were settled from South America.
It’s a bad idea to develop your conclusion first and then go try to prove it.
They discovered that Easter Island was practically honeycombed with caves used by the old inhabitants to live, to hide, and sometimes to bury their dead.
They were able to come to some interesting conclusions about Easter Island history.
In one of his books, the famous UFO-researcher Dr Jacques Vallee, described this book as "extraordinary".
One of the best bits is when he is collecting artefacts from Easter Islanders' families tombs.
Of course he must convince their families of his good intentions.
By convincing the entire Islands' population that his Aku is more resplendent, he is able to basically get away with any collection of artefacts for his museums/sponsors, etc.
At several times he fears being murdered and describes in detail the huge superstition of the Easter Islanders and their ruling class.
Un tieši tad arī saņēmu T.Heijerdāla grāmatu balvā radiospēlē "Lieliskais piecinieks".Zināmā mērā grāmata attaisnoja uz to liktās cerības.
Bet tik un tā grāmata savu pievienoto vērtību nezaudēja.
Ko mēs zinam par par Lieldienu salām?
Ar šādiem jautājumiem uz Lieldienu salām arī devās Tūra ekspedīcija.
Uz salas ekspedīcija pielīdzināmatrillerim, piedzīvojumu filmai ar mistikas elementiem.
Milzīgās statujas ir Lieldienu salas noslēpumu aisberga redzāmā daļa.
Daudz vairāk noslēpumu ir pazemē.
Bet tas viss tikai lai iegūtu atbildes uz jautājumiem un iegūtu taustāmus pierādījumus senajām civilizācijām.
Diemžēl Latvijas izdevniecība vienu zvaigzni "nozaga" šai grāmatai, bet tik un tā ir vērts izlasīt.
Norwegian archeologist/sociologist Thor Heyerdahl recounts his fascinating 1959 trip to Easter Island—in the middle of the Pacific Ocean—to uncover the origins of the island’s mysterious history.
The book reads like a true adventure story.
Heyerdahl is equally interested in the island’s people as he is with the infamous moai statues.
This lends credibility to their work, but doesn’t take away from the story.I was impressed by the physicality of the Heyerdahl’s escapades; he and his team are diving, lifting, driving, hanging, climbing all around the island as they’re piecing together the history and ancient techniques of the people who built the giant statues.
The best part for me was to learn how many Moais had to be literally dug out of the soil, and the theory Heyerdahl presented to explain how the Moais could be build.
This hats weighted literally tons.
How the aboriginals managed to transport both parts of the sculptures and assembled them together was a mystery that Heyerdahl was determined to resolve.Then it's the rest 3/4 of the book which is a recollection of Heyerdahl visits and misfortunes to many caves in order to retrieve idols, sculptures and other utensils.
It was an overly repetitive account that had me wondering WHY THE HELL it was left in the book because it does not add anything to the story.
Honestly, this book could have done without it.
Opening any book by Thor Heyerdahl is a ticket to a world of adventure.
The modern inhabitants of Easter Island (some of whom were descendants of the last of the 'long ears' - the mariners from South America) encountered by Heyerdahl were a colorful bunch of characters that brought the whole expedition to life with their stories and intrigues.
Fortunately my copy of the book was printed with numerous color photos which further enhanced the reading enjoyment.
If you ever wondered what could possibly be exciting at an excavation, please read Thor Heyerdahl’s thrilling book about the secrets of Easter Island.
You will never think digging earth is dull ever again.
He is irresistably readable and brings out your curious and enthusiastic inner child.
His storytelling is so exciting, you hardly believe it’s non-fiction.
You are captivated and truly feel that you yourself are pushing through the impossibly narrow underground cave passages and negotiating with the maddeningly superstitious natives.
It’s a long book and I haven’t even finished it yet, still, yes, this is a raving review.
Interesanti, tomēr tas kā Heijerdāls centās izmānīt no iezemiešiem dzimtas statujas un tabu alu atrašanās vietas nebija diez ko ētiski.
Czyta się świetnie i mimo faktu, że dziś wiemy że teorie Heyerdahla się nie sprawdziły, to nadal warto poczytać i poznać jego opowieści o Rapa Nui.
Heyerdahl's Kon-tiki raft trip was taken to prove his theory that South American raft builders used sail power and the prevailing Pacific currents to populate the scattered South Pacific Islands, bringing with them the engineering and stone mason skills to create the iconic Easter Island statues.
The story overwhelms the science for most of the second half, and it is especially jarring when we learn that many of the cave treasures were modern copies made for sale to the Heyerdahl expedition team.
The author is a talented story teller so that, even though this was about a scientific exploration, "Aku-Aku: The Secret of Easter Island" read like a novel.
Thor had his original mission to dig out statues(he even got locals to successfully raise one of the massive heads using ancient techniques), and to push understanding of the Easter Island settlement back to its possible origin.
He found out that ancient stone carvings had been preserved in secret family caves for generations.
Are trickery and manipulation justified in the name of scientific study?I understand Thor's reasons for removing the cave statutes.
But this book takes us there on the first archeological excavations and through the author's growing intimacy with the island's inhabitants, we hear of their myths at the same time the digs are producing artifacts that surprise even them.Heyerdahl found much to support his theory that the islands of the South Pacific were first settled in a westward direction from South America.
But alas, as happened when I read the author's Kon-Tiki and The Ra Expeditions, I do further reading on Wikipedia and discover that Heyerdahl's findings get only passing mention, and then only as "controversial." Regardless, I still find his writing and adventures immensely enjoyable.
This is first of all a fun book to read, as they et to the Easter Islands and befriends the local population, and have to figure out ways to learn as much as they cn while they are there.
Like figuring out how the giantAkuAku sculptures were made, moved and raised, - what no other before him was able to solve, with good help from the local population, digging around in holes in the ground, uncovering hidden mountain fortresses, and of course finding how to make boats out of traw.
"It does not come so natural for just anybody to make for the nearest mountain side with a stone in his hand, and set about quarrying the solid rock. No one has ever seen a Polynesian do anything of the kind, even in the coldest parts of New Zealand. Generations of experience in stone-carving are normally required for such projects. And experience alone is not enough. People with a fanatical urge to work and create are needed, people of the type of the mayor of Easter Island. He was certainly
"It does not come so natural for just anybody to make for the nearest mountain side with a stone in his hand, and set about quarrying the solid rock.
No one has ever seen a Polynesian do anything of the kind, even in the coldest parts of New Zealand.
Generations of experience in stone-carving are normally required for such projects.
And experience alone is not enough.
People with a fanatical urge to work and create are needed, people of the type of the mayor of Easter Island.
He was certainly not a Polynesian type, that confounded mayor.
Full of colonialist bravado, the author goes to a remote island to study it, convinces the locals he is a powerful wizard, with trickery and schemes, robs the locals blind of long term inherited stone statues they hid in the island's miles and miles of volcanic caves, gains access to those ancestral grave and treasure caves, and hauls them back to his home country.
A must read.
Reading it on the white sandy beach of Anakena, in Easter Island (in a leather bound yellowing copy in Hebrew, which the locals were just tickled by) just added a fun layer to an off the beaten track trip of a lifetime.
Back I the days when libraries were the only source of getting information, I found a ragged and abused copy of this book in my high school's library.
As I was deep in my Jules Verne & Arthur Conan Doyle phase, this adventure was more exciting than anything I read in National Geographic.
It is written very vividly, which made it easy to dispel reality and become part of the adventures.
It might be time to reread it.I wish you could see the accompanying movie on actual film, which I did at our National Film board library...
but I imagine a big screen, HD, BLUE RAY could be as exciting.
One negative about the book is the author's relentless quest to obtain stone carvings from the natives' hidden family caves.
He justifies it by supposing that they will eventually sell the carvings to private collectors for money or they will be lost forever, as the caves are well hidden and only one family member at a time knows the location.
It seems he uses his influence and the natives' superstitions in obtaining a huge amount of artifacts for the price of cloth and cigarettes.It would have been nice if he had given more attention to their work on other islands that they visited on the same expedition.
I don't like that Thor wanted to fool the inhabitants.
In the name of science he tried to persuade the people to take out their sacred stone monuments from their secret family caves.One should always respect the other people's faith ane belief.In addition, he did not keep his secret to himself - telling all Chile students about secret family caves!At this stage, he wanted to be seen as a hero.
How clever I am!On the other hand, there is a lot od interesting things.
I enjoy reading about reed boats, about trees growing there in the old times, about Iko's ditch, how two nations had colonised the island, etc..
As I understand it, much of the anthropological theory in this book has since been disproven.
However, to be honest, those aren't really the legs this book stands on.
The book itself makes this clear, referring to Heyerdahl's scientific publications for the nitty gritty.What this is is a great series of adventures about an explorer's time in an exotic place, and with an unfamiliar people.
Heyerdahl's writing is full of character, and makes it easy to imagine being there with his crew.
It would be almost as good if it were pure fiction, but is more enjoyable for knowing that these things, at least in some part, actually happened.
Thor strikes me as the closest thing we have had to an Indiana Jones adventurer-scholar, like Harry Houdini strikes me as the closest thing to a superhero.
These chronicles of exploring the truth behind mysterious Easter Island, or Rapa Nui meaning 'Great Rapa,' read as much like adventure as they do scholarship.
Secret caves, superstition, and wizardry read with as much drama and tension as there is in enlightenment coming from the archaeology, rongo-rong, and top knots and burial spaces of the long-faced statues.
As tantalizing and unfortunate in its brevity is the cursory treatment given to stops at Pitcairn Island and Rapa Iti. Plenty of color pictures and maps help out this book.
Having read Heyerdahl's Kon-Tiki prior to visiting the Norwegian side of our family in sixty-two, I read Aku-Aku sometime after returning and having seen the Kon-Tiki Museum in Oslo. Unlike Kon-Tiki, which is primarily a travel-adventure book (Heyerdahl saved the serious stuff for journal articles), Aku-Aku is more an archaeological work written for the general public. Like Kon-Tiki, however, the underlying thesis is that there was prehistoric intercourse between South America and Polynesia and the archaeological evidence is so construed as to support this thesis.
This book seemed endless!
I'm not keen on non-fiction adventure stories and the book found me accidently.
If I didn't respect the person who gave me it, I wouldn't read it up till the end.
I fell asleep all the time reading it.I won't say that Thor Heyerdahl is a great story-teller (and this is a main reason why I gave the book 3), but in general it was interesting to learn the origin of Easter's island statues and methods of setting them, and, to my mind, it seems convincing, although by now, there is no one version on this issue.
A must-read if you plan to visit Easter Island. You may not agree with his theory about the origin of the original Easter Islanders, but it's a fascinating read and superbly captures the mystery that surrounds the Island. The conjectures about the beginning of the Island's civilisation(s) & it's subsequent destruction and decline is very absorbing. He also captures very well the more recent history of the Island and it's native inhabitants. Reading it will give you a fantastic appreciation for the enigma that is the Island.

Like Kon Tiki, this is also a true adventure story, but much longer and more scientific in regard to the culture of the people on Easter Island, the theories of how they got there, and how the famous Moai (aka tiki heads) were manufactured and moved about the island. This was given to me by another friend who knows I enjoyed Kon Tiki so much. Interesting, but for me it dragged on a bit too long. However it's still a must read if you're interested in Heyerdahl's work.
Una muy buena lectura que deja con ganas de leer más sobre los misterios de la isla y el curso que tomaron las investigaciones luego de la expedición de Heyerdahl. Aunque buena parte de las teorías del autor han sido desacreditadas, el libro es tremendamente entretenido y la narración es excelente. La descripción de los habitantes de la isla es muy vívida y llena de sabor. Realmente una interesante lectura que disfruté mucho aunque me demoré bastante más de lo que me hubiera gustado.
I'm reading books from my parents' collection, and they were very big on art and archaeology, and this is both. My stepfather, Harvey Fite, was also fascinated by all large scale works of art, appropriately since he created one of the 20th Century's greatest.Heyerdahl not a great prose stylist, but a great explorer during the last flame of great exploration.
A good book if your interested in Easter Island. It was not quite as interesting a read as Heyerdahl's "Kon-Tiki" however. It tends to focus on the natives currently living on the island more than those who created the statues the island is famous for. But, criticisms aside, Heyerdahl proved again to be a very adept writer. (originally posted on Amazon.com)
