https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174876.A_Way_of_Being
Essentially, Carl Rogers articulated the idea that what makes a therapist helpful is not how many degrees a therapist has, or how many fancy and completely non-parsimonious theories they espouse, but how well they connect to their clients, and if they can actually provide unconditional positive regard--the idea that a therapist doesn't have to like or condone things that clients do, but does have to accept them as worthwhile human beings, no matter their circumstances or actions.
Carl Rogers, a giant of psychological history, has here written personal essays - which read almost like a diary - about his way of being which center on authenticity, openness, empathy, gentleness, and love.
Rogers calls for a complete transformation of how we think about ourselves and others - what we truly desire, underneath the surface, who we are, what hurts us, etc.My favorite chapter was entitled "Do We Really Need 'A' reality?" In it, Rogers argues that there is no such thing as "a" reality - as if "reality" was a stable concept, the same for all persons, static.
i am not sure when i first read this book, but i think it was some time in high school (a book i saw from my dad's large collection of philosophy/psychology/mythology books).as i read this, it inspired me to read more psychology books to motivate me to a better misunderstanding of myself and the world around me.too bad, i am not "school smart", or else i would become a psychologist (never a psychiatrist!).
for he did not believe in "education" (as a noun), but to be educated (as a verb).
i only need to still want to learn and be educated (and not be stuck in the place, "education").
كاتب جامد بيحسسنى انه فى منى كتير اكدلى على معانى كتير كنت عارفه انها صح بس كنت محتاجه حد يأكدلى عليها كنت اتمنى لو اقدر اتعامل معاه واكلمه حد بيحس بالناس اوى وبيهتم لمشاعرهم اتعلمت ازاى احس اللى ورا الكلام وورا الملامح قد ايه ده مهم للناس انك تحس بيهم وتفهمهم وانك لازم تحاول فى حلبمك انه يتحقق ولو مؤمن بفكره لازم تشتغل عليها كويس وتفضل وراها للاخر حتى لو العالم كله وقف ضدك فى الاول لازم تكمل ومتيأسش فى الوسط
This was excellent. I started out loving it, though it got a bit dry around the middle. Each chapter is essentially a different essay by Rogers, so my enjoyment varied per chapter. I found the last chapter, The World and the Person of Tomorrow, to be particularly moving.
This book was recommended to me as supplementary reading for a counselling skills course.
It addresses a variety of themes, including the development of the person-centred approach, education and challenges facing the future human.
I found many of the anecdotes heartwarming and inspiring, confirming my belief that the person-centred approach is both kind to clients and personally demanding of counsellors, so that what emerges is a conversation built on genuineness and respect.
This is a book I will probably come back to again when I have gained more counselling experience because it certainly has much to offer beyond what I could grasp on a first reading.
This book is a collection of speeches and writings from Carl Rogers reflecting on his extensive experience in Psychology.
He has had a big influence on the world of psychology in moving away from a prescriptive approach (I know what's best for you) to a non-directive approach (let the patient lead).
It's very interesting and has certainly been a model of application in my own pastoral training.
He makes reference to eastern philosophies of leadership which I also find fascinating - this sense of leading not through control, rather enabling a person or group to claim their own identity and their own path.
The book is a collection of Rogers’ papers done on different aspects of his person centred approach, organised into three main sections: personal experiences and perspectives, the person centred approach in psychotherapy, and it’s application in education.
Then, the thing I love the most about this book is that it opens a new door for me, a door of person centred approach.
I gave it 4 rather than 5 star because one, I wasn’t sure why the Brazil encounter group experience was put under the 3rd section of education.
Three, which is probably the key reason, I find myself reading too much of the same idea in different chapters.
The fourth and final part discusses Dr. Rogers' personal ideal scenario of the future.In my own experience, I had heard of Dr. Rogers before but had never read anything by him.
Mostly I heard of him when other writers would reference his work, but I don't remember any particular cases.I enjoyed this book quite a bit, yet it seemed lacking in some indescribable way.
It isn't as though I had any expectations from this book since I had heard of the author through other sources, but I suppose I wanted something that would impress me a bit more.
Ho una versione di questo libro che ha diversi errori di battitura e anche qualche problema a livello di traduzione. Ma Carl Rogers è sempre Carl Rogers
Finally, it is complete. Only took me five extra days from my plan, I’m happy to know that.
Carl Rogers knows how to bring a subject to us in understandable text.
A classic for many reasons.
A way of beingCarl R. Rogers
Roger's optimism is genuine and infectious in this work.
Group dynamics have an organic life of their own, one that can be guided in process more openly than typically thought.
Feeling understood is a cornerstone to the therapeutic process for clients.
The ups and downs of life are what make it exciting.
To have only stability is to have death.Being understood for who you are and he here you are whole at the same time knowing acceptance and relationship with the therapist tells the heart hat who you are is acceptable.
Pretending, putting on, or feigning characteristics with clients leaves them (and us) alone.
This is one of a handful of books that changed my life.I'm just now glancing over my professional library, and I find I have like 8 books on neuropsychology and no interest in that topic.
Rogers saved my life.
I read A Way of Being and I cried the whole time.
Rogers shows us what is possible.
He shows us a way to empathy, a fascinating journey into the experience of the other.
It's hard to read about his panic at the end of his life.
He spent so much time listening to the experiences of others and absorbing them gently that maybe we owe it to him to absorb some of his more challenging experiences, too.
I started 2017 off with my review of Motivational Interviewing, which serves as a structure for how to communicate with those who are struggling to help them be more successful.
The other foundation of motivational interviewing is the work of Carl Rogers, so I decided to look into A Way of Being, one of his final works.
Instead it was a collection of essays, presentations, and papers that together form a sense for this great psychologist who urged us to listen and truly hear people as they speak.Click here to read the full review
When I first purchased the book, I was worried that I would not understand it well given the fact that it was my first time Rogers.
But it was OK, and the book is not only about his theory in psychotherapy, but also about his opinions and musings in other areas of life.
It is a nice read.
Sometimes, because he also includes information from older writings, it feels like a disconnected reading from chapter to chapter, but again, the contents is easy and worth trying.
Absolutely phenomenal.
Approachable, likeable.
Humble, honest, brave: Rogers breathes just the right confidence, not too much where arrogance repels, not too little where self-disparagement loses respect, but just right, where I feel equal, can relate, and know I have something to learn from this remarkable fellow.
The five star rating is for parts one and two: Personal Experiences and Perspectives and Aspects of Person-Centered Approach, respectively.
I only skimmed part three, The Process of Education and Its Future, having little interest or faith in the public school system.Outstanding book.
A good way of loving and living life.
A view into the mind and life of one of the centuries great psychologists. As a collection of essays it is fantastic way of discovering Roger's views, but I have to admit that I was somewhat disappointed by its repetitive and vague nature. This is more my fault than the book, like one of his clients I came to him looking for answers and instead met a genuine, warm, open and curious individual who instead gave me questions. A worthwhile read, just know that it is as non-directive as his mode of therapy.
Son Millennium neslinin belki de en büyük sorunlarından bazıları kendinden uzaklaşması, hayatının hızlanması, bireyselleşmesi ve bunların sonuncandan artan başanma oranları, insanların birbilerine karşı tutunduğu nefret söylemi adeta nesli kaosa götürüyor bunların önüne geçebilmek için sevgi, sefkat, empati, fakındalık sabihi bireylerin yetişmesi ve bu sorunların üstesine gidilmesi gerekiyor. Kitap insan sevgisi eksenli bir hareketin mutlaka yankı bulacağını ve hatta bulduğunu dile getiriyor.
Carl Rogers has had such a profound impact on my development as a social worker. The sections of this book that describe the person-centered approach are excellent. Unfortunately, Rogers started to lose me toward the end of the book when he rambled on about the future, paranormal intuition, and reforming the education system. I think his arguments are valid, but I also think he came across as preachy and forced. All in all, it's still a phenomenal book.
I read this as a text for a college course. Carl Rogers is considered one of the fathers of psychology. His book is written from a changed perception based on his research over the length of his lifetime. It is very well written with the author's humor (and sometimes frustration) coming through in his poetic words. I would have enjoyed hearing one of his lectures in person during his lifetime.Maybe someday I will reread it and like it better.
how could anyone not love Carl Rogers? this is not true memoir in most common style, but compendium of a lot of his lectures with his later thoughts added. He was naive--foretold the 80s and beyond as being the age of enlightenment and human potential being reached by the larger society. don't we all wish.
This book has been such an inspiration for me. I love Rogers' person-centered approach because it fits so perfectly with my own philosophical views - namely that truth should be found within the individual and not in outside sources and that we as humans should learn to love each other unconditionally in order to progress as individuals and as a species.
Some really interesting insights into his particular type of psychology which I enjoyed. The last section of the book primarily deals with education and I really lost interest in the book at this point, but I was probably not the target audience for that section.
كتاب رائع لروجرز، رغم عدم سلاسة الترجمة، فقد قرأته في العربيمتاح في مكتبتنا عربي وانجليزي للاستعارة والاطلاعhttp://arabic-christian-counseling.co...
School book but its not overly dry and a great explanation of the history of the person centered approach to therapy starting around 1950. Its not a comprehensive history but rather Rogers take on it. He was right in the middle of it though.
Didn't get very far, about 100 pages in. It was okay, a little dry. Made Rogers sound like a jerk, which was interesting. He apparently didn't let his wife's illness slow him down later in life, she wanted him to care for her but being a caregiver didn't seem to be part of his ideal self.
This is another really good psychology book. Read this whilst doing my counselling course. enjoyed the book, not the course!!
