https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/256330.Tarr
WITH FANS LIKE THISEven people who thought Wyndham Lewis was a great writer, such as George Orwell, said stuff likeEnough talent to set up dozens of ordinary writers has been poured into Wyndham Lewis’s so-called novels … yet it would be a very heavy labour to read one of these books right throughMY EYES, MY EYESI’ve come across a few well regarded authors with unreadable styles, meaning that you have to be some kind of rarified Everest-scaling Arctic-Sea-kayaking type of reader to be able to get through this stuff, never mind actually like it.
The author of a study of Lewis and his works I have been reading in tandem with Tarr says that Ulysses was a revolution of style, but beneath the mind-boggling pyrotechnics of the stylistic surface there exist characters whose consciousnesses are essentially unaltered from 19th century norms.
If you were to take with you on vacation Wyndham Lewis's Tarr as a beach read, it'd somehow manage to kick sand in your face.
There really isn't a character to like in the whole work.
And, upon finishing it, you'll feel as if you spent a long time at a greatly demoralizing task like checking behind the testicles of prisoner after prisoner for crack rocks or razor blades.Yet, the novel succeeds on its own terms.
But he was also a great artist.Oh, and take special care to get only the 1918 edition; Lewis heavily revised Tarr in the twenties, much to the novel's detriment.
It is notable that Otto Kreisler is somewhat more developed as a character than the eponymous Tarr, whose appearances in the first part (called "Overture") and concluding chapters serve to bookend the story of Kreisler himself.Structure aside, Lewis's prose is rocky and doesn't allow the reader to go on auto-pilot - a sample description of a woman we are supposed to understand is powerfully attractive."Her lips were long hard bubbles risen in the blond heavy pool of her face, ready to break...Grown forward with ape-like intensity, they refused no emotion noisy egress if it got so far.
everyone in this book acts weird and wyndham lewis keeps comparing them to machinery, or livestock, or pieces of meat. there's some funny scenes, like wyndham lewis stand in spouting philosophy at people who aren't really interested, wyndham lewis stand in trying to break up with his curvy german gf, kriesler attempting to borrow money, kriesler going to a party and sabotaging it deliberately for no reason, it's pretty cool.
Only a writer as insufferable and self-absorbed as Wyndham Lewis could take a plot about intrigue, adultery, sex, murder and war, and turn it into one of the most boring books I've ever encountered.
Lewis is a much underrated writer. Though his prose is rather convoluted at times, and the narrative sometimes gets swamped in observational details, the individuality of his style is on a par with contemporaries such as Joyce and Eliot. Tarr is an early novel, and reveals Lewis's developing philosophical and artistic viewpoint, as well as the antagonistic persona that would later come to dominate his reputation. The characters are rather like ciphers, as in Huxley, but none the less fascinating, and the descriptions at times descend to deliciously biting satire. A reprobate novel with substance.
I feel like Tarr is a book that keeps one wondering.
Why are the characters so strange?Who is Tarr, and what does the title of the book has to do with the semi-protagonist?Another question that puzzles me is that the book starts of so hype, we get introduced to characters that are hard to analyze, and to understand.
Lewis' "Tarr" is a good work of literature but also a very strange one.
I feel that eventhough Lewis paints a picture of a delusional Kreisler, he Kreisler is the only charcter in Lewis story that I felt I understood.
This may end up being one of my favourite books. If you like slow-moving tragedies that also make you laugh out loud; if you like tales of former aristocrats living on tick in abject poverty; if you enjoy casual racism between Western European races, then this book is for you.
Wyndham Lewis is perhaps the most underrated and neglected writer of the last century.
Tarr, the novel's lead character, is a supreme rationalist who is disturbed by the nature of human desire, which he regards as a portal of the absurd.
The self-contempt Tarr feels when he betrays his ultra-rationalist principles by falling victim to his own urges is masterfully handled by Lewis, who was undoubtedly drawing on his own fear of developing an emotional attachment to human beings, especially women.
Lewis, a resolute critic of culture, politics, and dogma, was not afraid to take things to their logical conclusions.
Wyndham Lewis certainly deserves a long-overdue revaluation.
If I could be convinced that Lewis was poking some fun at his own pretentiousness in the character of Tarr, I might award it three stars.
The depiction of Kreisler was for me much more interesting; but I was put off about a lot of the focus on nationality and the general pretentiousness of the aesthetic ideas.
This novel veers perilously close into letting its characters be flat symbols.
I don't feel Tarr is an actual person, and if I feel Kreisler is a bit more defined it's probably because it's easy to identify with the shadow side of the human condition.
This is a brutal and devastating portrait of the fractured mind of European culture during World War I. I recommend it, but know what you're getting into! It kind of belongs with Notes From the Underground, by Dostoyevsky.
I read this as a set book as a mature student. It was ghastly.
I didn’t like this, although it held my interest to the end, and has a certain curious power.
The early chapters are the worst, because the dialogue feels so false and affected and pretentious.
The casual, offhand treatment of a Rape scene made me ponder the morally unbalanced nature of the writing, just as the earlier chapters made me ponder its lack of intellectual balance.In the end, Kreisler’s end gives us neither schadenfreude nor pity: I could not feel for him either sympathy or revulsion.
A novel that combines a lot in it.It's just as trivial as it is complicated.It can be viewed as an ode to male vanity, of a man who wants to seem more nobel than he is, or as a philosophical novel.
The philisophical novel simply displaying the common views of its time, or a nove showing a unique individual position of the author.
His position is shown through his characters' opinions and long dialogues about art and life.
At the same time, those characters live human lives, they eat, they drink, take pictures, have sex, die, cheat, have children.
Not a love triangle but square, as both women are interested in both men and vice versa, but this isn't right either as no one is, properly speaking, in love with anyone. None of the characters are likable or even particularly interesting. The plot involves-- is-- people of various nationalities doing vicious (brutal, socially unacceptable, motivated by vice) things for no real reason. The language does some good things but not enough to make it worthwhile. Like Bernard Shaw but without the charm: for three hundred pages. Not recommended.
I'm confusedly catharticized
With Tarr and Kreisler (a Hitler-like figure) he explores the relationship of the artist with art and sexuality and, along the way, lacerates bourgeois Bohemianism, pillories sentimental German romanticism and writes, as T.
S. Eliot said, with ‘the thought of the modern and the energy of the cave-man.’” Although promoted as a comic novel, the book takes itself too seriously for that.
I suppose that many of the readers of this book read it because it was written by an artist who made some kind of name for himself, the same as if Picasso had written a romance novel.
The most memorable part of the novel was just the character formation: Kreisler, Anastasya, and other characters whom Lewis designs as stereotyped representations of Germans, Slavic peoples, and other nationalities.
The novel is explosive and dramatic as each of the different characters, their headstrong philosophies, and their national stereotypes come into conflict with each other.
I'm interested in the failure of marriage, friendship, or really any other form of bond or social contract to successfully hold these people, and the nations they represent, together in peace.
Started in 1910 and completed in 1918, this book definitely represents some of the cynicism and protofascist racism that characterized World War I and the years shortly after.

The story that runs throughout is amazing, however obscured it might be by pretentious artistic banter.Would have been much better if about 50 pages of dull philosophical waxing were cut out. I'm no philistine, but why ruin awesome prose with all that?Despite all this I really enjoyed it. There is no doubt it is a classic and I'm surprised I haven't heard more about Lewis to begin with.
Written in the early 19o0s by artist and polemicist Wyndham Lewis, the tale of a German and an English artist in the city of Paris and their muse(s). Rather sneering at the insincere Bohemian mannerisms of the characters, the book is a rather heavy-handed look at their situation, with much navel-gazing and fits of melodrama among the Parisian cafes.
Felt like the author was trying to impress the reader with his use of obscure language, but didn't really have a story to tell. Some minor glimpses of genuinely entertaining wit drowning in huge pools of descriptive boredom.
AcknowledgementsIntroductionNote on the TextSelect BibliographyA Chronology of Wyndham LewisMap of Paris--TarrAppendix: Preface to the 1918 American EditionExplanatory NotesGlossary of Foreign Words and Phrases
Сцены из жизни богемы, некоторые большой сатирической силы или просто фактурно примечательные. Проповеднический пафос у Льюиса почти такой же выразительный, как у Достоевского; но мысли его либо скучны, либо вовсе неумны.
I can't believe I finished it. Every page or so, there's an excellent sentence. Otherwise...Did David Brooks ever give Lewis credit for coming up with Bourgeois Bohemian?
Really intersting read which I read in a day.
