https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35887251-pieces-of-her
“She had always believed—vehemently, with great conviction—that the only way to change the world was to destroy it.” If you didn’t know before, you certainly will now—I’m a Karin Slaughter junkie with a capital J and a #slaughtersquad chick-a-dee (with the cat ears to prove it *wink*). It was over a decade ago that I picked up my first Grant County novel and found myself instantly enamored with Slaughter’s brand of dark. My love for the blood and guts splattering her crime-lines, enmeshed with
My love for the blood and guts splattering her crime-lines, enmeshed with the thriving emotionality driving the multi-faceted beings present on the page, have landed me in perpetual countdown mode—tracking the days from one Slaughter fix to my next.A slight departure from her previous work, Pieces of Her is an exploration of the mother-daughter relationship.
It's pretty much guaranteed she'll get the pages good and bloody, while simultaneously grabbing your heart and holding it captive as she sets out to unravel the mystery at hand.A few horrific scenes, and a plea from her mother to run, puts Andy behind the wheel of an 80’s wagon headed cross-country, destination unknown.
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...4.5 Stars!!  Can you ever truly escape your past?  Andrea Cooper and her mother, Laura are having lunch and celebrating Andrea's thirty-first birthday at the Rise n’Dine restaurant at the mall of Belle Isle.Just as they are about to finish up their lunch...Suddenly it feels like the world explodes.People are screaming and crying, trying to take cover. Andrea’s mother tackles her to the ground. What happens next shocks Andrea
Andrea Cooper and her mother, Laura are having lunch and celebrating Andrea's thirty-first birthday at the Rise n’Dine restaurant at the mall of Belle Isle.Just as they are about to finish up their lunch...Suddenly it feels like the world explodes.People are screaming and crying, trying to take cover.
She's not the type of person who keeps secrets.But it turns out Andrea may not have known her mother at all.
This was an exciting and intense read that had me gripped, wondering what was going to happen next.The majority of the story alternates between Andrea's mother’s point of view in the past and Andrea’s point of view in the present.
Rather than a gritty thriller that concentrated on the family dynamics Slaughter seems to do best, we got a strange terrorist backstory that introduced a number of forgettable characters.The beginning sees Andy and her mother, Laura, going to lunch for Andy's 31st birthday.
Caught on camera delivering the killing blow without emotion, first the police, and then Andy, start to ask questions about Laura's past and who she really is.
Andy makes a number of discoveries that offer up more questions than answers: Who is Laura?
Andrea Cooper thought she knew her Mother, Laura.
Although, it did get better, I found this book to be not quite as enjoyable as her other books.
As the past and present collided- personal secrets, family secrets, hidden agendas, lies, and deceptions become known.As with all of Slaughter's book, this book is well-written.
It was not the roller coaster ride I am used to being on while reading a Slaughter book but it was still enjoyable and entertaining.
Although there is crime here and a HUGE mystery to solve, it didn't have the same feel as her other books, which I think some readers will really like and others may not.
Whilst in a diner, a young shooter, Jonah Helsinger, blasts away a mother and daughter, lining up a frozen and immobile Andy as his next target when Laura steps in front of her, telling him to kill her instead.
Who is this woman masquerading as her mother?With unexpected and horrifying events occurring that hint at Laura's clandestine past, they bring a whole heap of danger in the present, as a disorientated Andrea initially heeds Laura's advice to leave town, go to a storage unit and then head to Idaho until it is safe for her to return.
Explosive, Hair-raising, and Fast-Paced!Karin Slaughter is a master at suspense.Be prepared to get goosebumps..I was first introduced to Karin Slaughter when I read her grizzly, suspense novel, The Good Daughter.
It was just more of everything in a terrifyingly good way.Andrea is a devoted daughter to Laura, her mother.
When Laura received a diagnosis of breast cancer, Andrea was there to support her every step of the way.
Laura effortlessly kills the gunman in a militaristic fashion, that suggests Andrea knows absolutely nothing about her mother.
Karin Slaughter also maintains a delicate balance between pulp and an appropriate amount of violence.
Andy watched her mother move to protect her, disarm the gunman, and then finish him off, coldly, as if she were simply a "killing machine." She knows she is in shock from the trauma of the events, but Andy cannot believe what she saw with her own eyes.
Andy doesn't know what to think, as she cannot get her mind around what she saw her mother do, and the fear that other incidents will follow.
ABOUT THIS BOOK: What if the person you thought you knew best turns out to be someone you never knew at all?Andrea Cooper knows everything about her mother Laura.
The thought behind, I strove to join Unto the thought before -But sequence ravelled out of sound Like balls - upon a floor.'I started out loving Pieces of Her by Karin Slaughter.
I loved the premise of the book, 'What if the person you thought you knew best turns out to be someone you never knew at all?' I mean, really, how well do we know our parents?

3.4 Stars* (rounded down)Have you ever been eagerly awaiting an author’s new novel (whose books you recently discovered) only to be slightly disappointed?
Yeah, that is what happened here.For those of you who like Karin Slaughter’s books, you know that they are going to be gruesome and gory, and you think you’re prepared?
An exploration of the bonds between mothers and daughters and the discovery of one sense of self, “Pieces of Her” is a novel that I enjoyed, but didn’t love.
That aside, I think the second half of the book was so strong and it saved this novel for me.
In the present Andy is on a dangerous road trip that will lead to jaw dropping discoveries about her own identity as well as her mother’s past.
And the hits keep coming right up to the final page.This is very different from previous books I’ve read by this author.
As the book hit the second half, tension ramps up in both time lines & the past crashes into the present.
The second half saved the book for me as the scope of the plot became apparent & more, interesting characters took up the story.Just a heads up: there are scenes that will make some readers uncomfortable.
There's nothing significantly wrong with this novel, but I also can't help but feel like there's nothing new or different that make the story stand out.
All hell breaks loose when Andrea is at the mall with her mother, Laura, and a gunman starts shooting.
And whatever secrets Laura has been hiding pose a serious threat to both of their lives.By far, the part of the book I enjoyed the most was the present day action which focused on Andrea.
It was also disappointing to finish the book and not feel like I 100% understood the Laura character.
She’s 31, lives above her mother's garage, and works nights in a 911 dispatch center.
So, while I was filled with doubts about Andy, an event occurs that reveals much more about Andy's mother and gave me a whole new set of questions about Laura.
Confusion mounted and doing the math with dates and ages didn’t help.The writing is up to Slaughter's usual standard.
Andy and Laura are difficult characters to understand because, as the title indicates, you only get “pieces of her.” I found this book enjoyable, but I wasn’t wowed like previous Slaughter books.
Pieces Of Her by Karin Slaughter was a thriller narrated in two different time lines by a mother and daughter.
A violent encounter with a killer in a restaurant has a devastating effect on their relationship and Laura tells her daughter Andrea that she must leave town.
The story then goes back in time 32 years to a woman Called Jane who is working with a group of terrorists.
Although I enjoyed parts of this book, I found it disjointed and I didn't enjoy it as much this authors previous books.I would like to thank NetGalley and HarperCollins UK for my e-copy in exchange for an honest review.
Having never read a standalone novel of hers, I was excited to delve into ‘Pieces of Her’.Mother-daughter, Laura and Andrea, are enjoying a quiet lunch, when a teenage gunman enters the mall diner, and starts firing.
The pace did pick up after that and I finished the book over the course of a few hours, but nothing regarding the suspense, or the outcome, was particularly unexpected or new.A major problem I had with the novel was the character of Andrea.
In short, ‘Pieces of Her’ was more character, than action driven, and my failure to care whether or not Andrea or Laura made it out alive, meant this was a miss for me.
Aside from Cop Town, Pieces of Her is my favorite Slaughter book - and to think that I almost didn't read it because of the negative reviews.
I live in the "rust belt" where there are very few strong, "life-together" women and most of the 20-30 year old women that I know are exactly like Andrea.
This, however, is a story that can teach you something if you try just as Cop Town did.If you've already made up your mind to only like Slaughter's very safe series, then this is not the book for you.
I so enjoyed her novels PRETTY GIRLS and THE GOOD DAUGHTER and now PIECES OF HER joins them as another suspenseful, tense mystery.
You don't just get a mystery, you receive a beautifully written novel, full of detailed characters and excellent writing.
Andy and Laura are well-formed characters: you'll find yourself incredibly frustrated with Andy in the beginning, as she's so helpless for a 30+ woman.
I am always captivated by the dark aspects of Slaughter's novels and her twisted characters and plot plots.
"Pieces of Her" is the newest thriller from Karin Slaughter, and having recently become addicted to her thrilling story-telling, I immediately snapped up this one when I saw it in the bookstore.
The title refers more to the fact that Andy, the protagonist, turns out to not know her mother after all, and slowly, pieces of her past come to the surface and reeducates Andy on the one person she thought she knew inside out.
So this is a book about how someone we think we know is not at all that person.
DNF @ 20%I tried the audio but the voice of the characters was a bit too similar to each other so I switched to the book and it was reaaaaaally slow! I got bored and couldn't go further!
4.5/5Most of you already know that I’m a huge fan of Karin Slaughter, I’ve read all of her books and think she’s the queen of crime, one of the best writers around, so every year I’m always very excited to read her latest book.
While I wasn’t disappointed with this one it is vastly different from her other books and not at all what I was expecting, so heads up to the #SlaughterSquad!While there were several of the components in this book that I’ve come to expect from Slaughter the plot itself differed from her other work.
Thirty-one year old Andrea “Andy” Cooper and her mother Laura Oliver are at the mall celebrating Andy's birthday.
While Andy processes the event as a victim likely would, her mother acts with authority and experience and it's all captured on film.
Another crisis prompts Andy to run at Laura's instruction.
Andy discovers that her mother is not who she thought she was.
One may think that finding out your mother had a secret life once upon a time would be quite glamorous.
I absolutely love everything Slaughter writes.
I'm very conflicted about what I should rate this book.
I very much enjoyed Karin Slaughter's writing style but I absolutely ABHORRED the main character, Andrea.
I'm having trouble finding the words to explain just how much I hated this character.
I almost gave this book two stars because of her.
I've never wanted to lower a rating due to hating a character, but I guess there's a first for everything.
I decided to give it three stars solely because I like Karin Slaughter's writing and the end result of the mystery was interesting.
Another standalone from Karin Slaughter and possibly one of my favourite books of hers so far.A cross between a fast paced page turner and insightful psychological thriller, this was one I read fast, so caught up was I in Andy's story as she tries to put together the pieces of her Mother and discover the truth about her background.
Daughter Andy gets caught up in the aftermath, sending her on a scarily dangerous road trip to answers.As we learn what secrets lie in Laura's past it is utterly compelling, often edge of seat thrilling and beautifully plotted to keep things unexpected and addictive.
'Pieces of her ' is a stand alone novel from author Karin Slaughter.Andrea Cooper thinks she knows everything about her mother Laura, but everything is about to change.
Laura is shot by someone who has spent the last thirty years trying to track her down.
The gunman is stopped in his tracks by Laura who displays a coolness while overcoming the killer, while everyone else is left paralysed with fear.
Laura instantly notices the change in her mother and begins a search for the truth.
She is determined to discover the truth about her mother past and uncovers secrets that threaten several lives.
This was a really fascinating read and honestly, I don't think I've ever read something like this before. But, I do think that out of the other two standalone books I've read from Karin, Pretty Girls and The Good Daughter, this was least violent, gory, and chaotic book out of them all. But I still enjoyed it nonetheless. Full review to come!Twitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |
Thirty-one-year-old Andrea (Andy) Cooper had rushed home to Gullaway Island from New York when her mother had rung to tell her she had breast cancer.
Now Laura was in remission, Andy knew it was time to plan for her future; to move on.
Pieces of Her by Karin Slaughter switches back and forth between 1986, told by Laura and 2018 in Andy’s voice, and telling of the horrifying events which eventually led to what happened in 2018.
The twists and intrigue were well done; while Andy became really annoying.
Laura was a well-crafted character, but the events of 1986 – wow!
5 ☆ Slaughter hit a home run with Pieces of Her.. I just love when a book keeps me on my toes guessing! The past collides with the present when breast cancer survivor Laura “saves the day” at a local mall cafe while eating with daughter Andy. An overnight media sensation due to a home video taken of the killings in progress shows Laura taking out the shooter. Not good. Someone’s now trying to snuff out Laura leaving Andy scared and on the run. Riveting and entertaining!
Karin Slaughter has done it again, what an amazing book!
I have read and enjoyed many of her books and this stand alone one is fantastic.
If you have not read any of Slaughters books before then you really need to rectify that..
get Pieces of Her!!Andrea and her mother Laura live in a small, quiet town.
When the gunman starts firing Laura starts to behave ini a way that is the complete opposite to the mother than Andrea knows.
Once out of hospital Andrea is sent away for own safety and she begins to wonder who her mother really is.
From the internationally bestselling author of crime fiction, Karin Slaughter returns following (2017)  The Good Daughter  landing on my  Top Books of 2017 with her latest —PIECES OF HER, an emotional heart-pounding action thriller featuring dynamic mother/daughter duo.
What if everything you thought you knew about your quiet, middle-aged mother was wrong?First, let me begin by saying: "My nerves are fried after reading PIECES OF HER—this is one INTENSE novel!
PIECES OF HER follows Andrea, a woman who thought she knew everything about her mother, Laura, until the moment she realized she didn’t, and their world unravels.
Her mother appeared to have been trained to kill, perhaps a spy or former military, but before that horrifying and dreadful day in the diner, Andrea Cooper believed she had a quintessential upbringing. From that moment on, what she knew of life, of herself, and of her mother, it had all been a fabrication, a deception. The reader is led on a roller coaster ride of suspense, deceit, and intrigue. With the recognized style of the Jason Bourne saga, Slaughter has crafted an exceptional thriller.
