https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77621.Some_Buried_Caesar
One of my favorite early Nero Wolfe mysteries, in which Wolfe leaves home, Archie almost fights a bull, and we are introduced to Archie's best girl Lily Rowan.
They happened to crash near a foul-tempered bull, so Nero Wolfe sent Archie to distract the animal while he (Wolfe, that is) gets to a safe place which happened to be a giant boulder in the middle of the field.Later this bull killed a man, but as everybody guessed this happens to be a murder, not an accident.
Check.Speaking about his girlfriend, Rex Stout kills some recurrent characters in the series from time to time, but he is not so fast to introduce the new ones.
Nero Wolf, is new Sherlock Holmes. And I can't believe it. But, sure as hell, if anyone can continue the legacy of Holmes, it would be Nero Wolf.
The 6th book in the Nero Wolfe series by Rex Stout is one of the best.
On the way the car, driven by Archie, has a blowout and hits a tree.
This sets up one of the funniest scenes in the entire series as the two set off across a pasture to get help.
Wolfe ends up standing on a boulder in the middle of the pasture to avoid a large bull named Caesar.
This is also the novel in which we meet Lily Rown who becomes Archie's favorite dancing partner during the series.
Sure the novel is missing Fritz, Theodore, and Cramer.
Those of us who are addicted to the Rex Stout mysteries, enjoy sharing the old brownstone on W35th St. with Wolfe, Archie, and Fritz and the majority of the stories take place there.
In this tale he is taking some of his prize winning orchids to a competition in upstate NY when a tire blow-out sends the car into a ditch, validating Wolfe's belief that automobiles are out to kill him.
Thus begins a tale of murder, Wolfe is hired by the father of the deceased, and is forced to solve the mystery in a very short time since all he wants to do is go home.
I haven't read one of these in decades.
It was a lot of fun to get back to Nero & Archie.
Excellent reading too by Michael Prichard.
I didn't think I'd like his voice at first, but it fit the story well & grew on me.
I like mysteries where all the clues are there & while I was pretty sure of the killer early on, I was never bored.
Delightful!
Not as dated as I thought it would be either, save for some of the prices - $60 to fix a car!!!
Still, cattle haven't changed much nor shows &a
I haven't read one of these in decades.
Excellent reading too by Michael Prichard.
I didn't think I'd like his voice at first, but it fit the story well & grew on me.
Still, cattle haven't changed much nor shows & good blood stock.
As for people, they haven't changed at all & the motives were all as old as the hills.
The story was good, though.
Quite a twisty bit of turns, some excellent tries at throwing us off the scent, too.My library has more of these & I will indulge.
But the writing and characterization are what hooked me to the Nero Wolfe mysteries - though really the titles are a misnomer, as they are about Archie Goodwin, my favorite "sidekick" ever.
Agatha Christie used to be my favorite mystery writer (with no one coming in even as a close second), but with this book Rex Stout has now been placed firmly in first place.
I still like Christie's *stories* and her mysteries are usually more complex than Stout's, but his writing and characters are far superior to Christie's.The story: it's about a bull.
main reason: Archie is at his absolute best (so far, of books 1-6) in this story.
Archie Goodwin's wit never relents and Nero Wolfe gives as good as he gets and always manages to stay on top.
The repartee is what makes these books.But it is also a good mystery with the clues being doled out in a timely fashion, building the reader's suspense, and when it all comes together it makes sense.
It all comes together to a logical conclusion: Who did it; why did they do it; and how did they do it.What is the plot?
They must find someone to give them a ride.They are out in the country and find themselves walking into the middle of a cow pasture.
Not just any cow pasture.
I also learned a new word on the very first page--plerophory--which I had to look up in the OED, since it wasn't in my unabridged.
Seems like a very useful word in today's America, and a shame that it has disappeared.
Wolfe's plerophory is that mechanical things, such as cars, while usually obeying directions, actually have a will of their own and are liable to act unpredictably on their own whim.
I also learned that I had always misunderstood the title--it is a quote from Edward Fitzgerald's translation of the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam--a book of poems hugely popular in the late 19th and early 20th century in both England and America.
BOOK 95 - Mid-20th Century North American Crime Readathon - Round 3How could I have never read a Rex Stout novel until this year?HOOK=4 stars: "That sunny September day was full of surprises," opens this book.
But the way the bull plays into the plot is an original, for a fourth star.CHARACTERS=5: Ceasar (actually Hickory Ceasar Grinder) the Bull plays a major role here.
And devious minds: Nero, Archie, and even Hickory Ceasar Grinder (who actually does provide a series of clues and leads the cast to the first murdered person) plus a separate set of bulls.
Once again, Wolfe & Archie are away from home in this 6th entry in the series! This time, Wolfe is visiting upstate NY in order to participate in a flower show (so his orchids can beat those of a rival who cowardly avoided the NYC flower shows). Of course, they get involved in a death or two (or 3) while there! This is the book which introduces a recurring character, Lily Rowan, and it was a lot of fun reading the persiflage between her & Archie.
In this story Archie is driving Wolfe to an exposition to show his orchids in Crowfield, NY when a tire blows out and the car hits a tree in a pasture.
Wolfe is left stranded on a large bolder and Archie is vaulting a fence when it is discovered that this pasture is home to Hickory Caesar Grindon, a champion bull.
One of these is Clyde Osgood, son of a neighbor, who bets Pratt $10,000 that he will not barbecue Caesar by the end of the week.
I miss some of the regular characters in other Nero Wolfe books but all in all this was a fun book to read.
The funniest Nero Wolfe story that I have listened to yet!
This begins entertainingly with Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin being chased across a pasture by an expensive, prize-winning bull.
Well, Archie is chased by the bull; certainly Wolfe doesn’t run.They’re en route to the North Atlantic Exposition with a batch of Wolf’s orchids when a tire blows out and strands the duo in rural New York.
After the incident with the bull they become aware of a local drama concerning the animal, and then when a man is found dead in the same pasture, Wolfe agrees to investigate the murder.The mystery is just fine, but the appeal of these books is Archie’s endless banter, and Wolfe’s arrogance, and the general humorous tone.
Trotzdem schätze ich es, das man diese, doch in die Jahre gekommene, Serie wieder hervorgeholt hat, denn der Charme dermaligen Zeit im Buch ist ergreifend und faszinierend.Der diesmalige Fall führte mich raus aus New York, wobei dies für Nero Wolfe natürlich eine absolute Ausnahme war, da der äußerst kräftige Detektiv seine eigenen Räume sehr zu schätzen weiß.
Daher war diesmal um einiges angenehmer, neue Charaktere kennenzulernen, die auch Nero und Archie noch nicht kannten.Die Gestaltung dieser war übrigens sehr bildlich, was an den hervorragenden Beschreibungen lag.
This book is perennially voted the very best Nero Wolfe mystery (#6) by Rex Stout aficionados.
Wolfe and Archie get a lift to the house, where lives Thomas Pratt, the owner of a large chain of fast-food restaurants.
Pratt plans to barbecue a champion Guernsey named Caesar, the very bull that threatened Wolfe and Archie, a few days later.
The plan has outraged the members of the Guernsey League, who are in town for the exposition.Clyde Osgood, son of a despised neighbor, shows up and offers to bet Pratt $10,000 that Pratt will not barbecue Caesar.
For one thing, it's early enough in the series that Wolfe is still regularly breaking his ironclad rule never to leave the house.
Here, an orchid show in upstate NY pries him out of Manhattan, proves his horror of automobiles, and lands him at a dairy farm where he's faced with the murder of a victim already marked for death.
Even better, this is the one where Wolfe and narrator Archie Goodwin first meet Lily Rowan.
She calls Archie Escamillo (after the sexy bullfighter in Carmen), while entrancing every man in sight; he calls her bauble, plaything, and trifle, while recruiting her to help solve what's now a multiple murder case.
I enjoy the author’s way of thinking. Surprises. Clever.This is book 6 in the series. It wasn’t as good as the first book (Fer-De-Lance), but it was still very good.The audiobook narrator Michael Prichard was good.DATA:Narrative mode: 1st person Archie. Unabridged audiobook length: 7 hrs and 43 mins. Swearing language: mild, including religious swear words. Sexual content: none. Setting: 1938 upstate New York. Book copyright: 1938. Genre: PI mystery.
I think I've read all of Stout's Nero Wolfe stories, and judge this one to be the best.
The sixth Nero Wolfe mystery by the great Rex Stout, and the first one I have read for many years.
My grandfather was a fan and I read a lot of these as a teenager.
But I didn’t remember any details except for the recurring characters Nero Wolfe the great detective and orchid-lover, his sidekick the womanizing Archie Goodwin, and Wolfe’s cook who didn’t appear in this one.Wolfe and Archie have a tyre blowout on their way to an orchid show and are chased by a bull who turns out to be the subject of a dispute that ends in two murders (or three, if you count the murder of the bull).
Recommended for old-time mystery fans!
I enjoyed this Nero Wolfe story. it moved faster than several of the previous stories which was desirable.
I think I have a literary crush on Archie Goodwin.
Such a wonderful world Rex Stout writes about. late 1930's in upstate New York. Nero Wolfe is traveling to exhibit a few of his prize Orchids. He is caught in a cow pasture with a bull. Funny and surreal at the same time.
While enjoying some refreshments and considering their options for making it to the hotel in time to claim their rooms for the night, they also meet Pratt's nephew Jimmy and Lily Rowan, a pretty and world-wise blonde who looks to be more than a match for Archie in the wise-crack department.There are also some tense moments when members of the Guernsey League show up to protest Pratt's intention to turn the bull into barbecue in an advertising stunt for his restaurant chain.
Wolfe trades Archie's services as a bull-watcher for the comfort of Pratt's home--much preferable to any hotel room in Wolfe's estimation.
Ahah! Nero Wolfe out in the countryside? Goodness. Nice change of scenery in this one. Even learned a bit about Guernseys. There were a lot of characters to keep track of, but I managed.
One of my favourite characters, the wonderful Lily Rowan, is introduced in this one!
I love that her enjoyment of food and ability to get the point are two of the reasons Archie likes her.
I love that she seemingly instantly gets the very weird Archie/Wolfe dynamic and is basically here for it.
I love HER.Basically, Lily Rowan is great and Archie narrating like he's cool but actually being a failboat add up to one of my very favourites of the whole series.
And Archie in the prison is basically exactly what I hope I'd be like if I went to prison, but would actually never be.
How many people in the '30's really wanted to read about super rich people with big houses, lots of servants, and all the trimmings?
They were the only people who could afford Wolfe, of course, and we do meet the 'pratteria', an unfortunate name if ever there was one, as even Archie mentions, but the bit about the prize bull being good advertising for the pratterias is bang on, because of course people would wonder if by any chance that was the beef in their sandwich.One of my favourite Nero Wolfe's2017 - Here we are again.
The character of Archie felt off - too mean, not especially charming, still witty but in a snarky and offensive manner, especially to Lily Rowan.
By the end of the book I was feeling better about him and am actually hoping that Lily will show up again in later books, but I almost stopped reading during the early chapters because of how unfamiliar Archie seemed.
The plot was simple enough, but in that respect it didn't provide the astonishing twists and turns I'm used to in Rex Stout's stories.
It's not my favorite story so far, but I would definitely recommend it for the plot and the way it unfolds.
This is my third Nero Wolfe mystery and I have yet to be disappointed.
I love the premise of these books--that the reader sees Wolfe through Archie's eyes--and I love the contrast between the precise, brilliant Wolfe and the wise-cracking Archie Goodwin.
The mystery in Some Buried Caesar is appropriately convoluted, but I especially appreciate that this isn't one of those annoying stories where vital information is withheld from the reader until the end.
Stout gives the reader everything necessary to solve the mystery--it's just a matter of seeing the clues when they're presented.
I can see why this book was named to the list of the 20th century's best mysteries--it's an excellent read.
As far as Nero Wolfe mysteries go, this was one of the better ones I've read.
Archie's voice was lively, the mystery was engaging, and it's always interesting to see Wolfe out of his native element.
I suppose my only complaint is that I figured out maybe a little too easily who the murderer was.
Anyway, the mystery is only half the reason you read Nero Wolfe novels.
The other half is the simultaneously brusque and tender working relationship/friendship that Archie and Wolfe have, and the delightful dialog that accompanies it.
