https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12014.Complicity
Really enjoyed this. But keep mixing it up with another Iain Banks I read roughly at the same time.
specifically j.c. oates under her thriller pseudonym, rosamund smith...
my main issue with the novel, besides the rather rote use of doubling, is that the lead character becomes somewhat tedious, at least to this reader.
still, the writing is solid and the narrative is often riveting.i particularly appreciated (view spoiler)[the flashback to the brief sexual interlude between the narrator and the killer as children.
it was refreshing, particularly as this is not remotely a Gay Novel.
anyway, although the flashback eventually has a larger meaning (insofar as a deep connection is established between the two characters due to what happens immediately afterwards)...

Complicity is my second Banks novel, after The Wasp Factory.
Both are 5 star reads, the main reason being that Banks is a captivating storyteller capable of evoking sympathy when the reader may not necessarily feel comfortable with the feeling.
And when I thought about the story after finishing, everything felt complete, with that wonderful deceptively-simple quality and an ending I approved of.The novel contains large amounts of violence, in and out of the bedroom type violence, as well as scenes of torture.
I truly felt as though I were in the story and believe me, the second-person narrative scenes are nothing I ever want to experience.
This will mean nowt to those of you who've not been to Scotland but all of the places and many of the landscape props described by Banks are real, accurately described and correct in their geographical placements i.e. not brought closer together, pushed further apart or aged/renovated at the authors convenience to fit in with the plot.
For example, Cameron Colley: protagonist, gonzo journo - whispering prayers to the great St Hunter - coke snorting, drink fuelled, lady humping, cig toting, speed licking 1980/90s oober male.
which came out around the same time, like when Hollywood comes out with two suspiciously similar movies at once (A Bug's Life & Antz, Capote and Infamous).
But there should be more political novels.
I was thinking of writing one myself, set at the time of the Cuban Missile crisis, in which a doo wop group infiltrates the CIA and engineers a coup d'etat based on the seductive properties of the standard three chord progression.
They commandeer the tv stations and announce : "We have come to harmonise international relations"...no, perhaps not.
Politics is a bit crap and shoddy these days.
You know it really is time for that alien invasion we were promised in 1957.
ВЛУДЯВАЩО ДОБРА! Тея дни ревю, просто невероятно умно написан трилър - с мисъл, какви герои, какви действия, какви убийства, уооооооу! 50 звезди!
4,5 πολύ δυνατή γραφή
An extremely superior piece of sex and violence. You know, like Hamlet or the Duchess of Malfi or something, but more explicit. Totally unputdownable.
I spent the first two thirds of this book hating it.
Suddenly near to the end , I realized it wasn’t a mystery thriller, but was a moral tale, a political statement, and a criticism of modern society, and the whole thing had a significance I hadn’t expected.
It wasn’t the best book I have read, and I wouldn’t even say it really deserves the four stars I have given it, but I am glad I read it and , yes, it did make me think.
What else can you ask from a book?
"Complicity": the clue's in the title.
To what extent are we complicit in what happens to us?
This is an atmospheric, compelling, intelligent Scottish crime thriller that - like the best genre fiction - also has plenty to say on our messed up world and the human condition.
I raced through this satisfying story of how dysfunctional local journalist Cameron Colley may have triggered a series of horrific revenge incidents (murder, torture etc.).
The two narrative voices kept this tale tense and interesting as the police conclude that Cameron knows far more than he is letting on.
Just how complicit is he?
Съучастието те прави обвиняем: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/s...В центъра е журналистът Камерън Коли, който не е точно достоен пример за професията – наркотиците и стимулантите са негов постоянен спътник.
Наскоро с него се е свързал анонимен глас, който му подава по малко информация, свързана с грандиозна афера, оставила серия трупове, чиято смърт така и не е разследвана достатъчно задълбочено, и той е готов на всичко, за да се добере до тази история.
И това си е сякаш в реда на нещата, до момента, в който някой започва да избива тези, които са успяли да се спасят от възмездие – изобретателен и умен, убиецът наказва всеки от тях по начин, който пряко напомня простъпката, която са направили.Colibri Bookshttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/s...
I really wanted to like this. I really did. It had interesting characters, good plot, gratuitous sex and violence. But I couldn't get into it. The characters were developed but not likable. I didn't care what happened to them. The writing style just didn't vibe with me. It was a difficult book to get through and I couldn't find much depth or anything of real interest to me. Unfortunate, because the premise sounded good.
Too much violence, sex and profanity but otherwise a great job of writing. Very violent, thriller. Gonzo journalist, pathological killer are intertwined in this story. The author is a good writer but way to much profanity and the details of the violence and sex was over the top.
Simultaneously there is a series of pretty grisly not to mention imaginative murders of people who it could be argued fully deserve to be killed meaning that the reader will not feel overly sympathetic towards the victims.
Victims who had been named by Colley in a previous editorial implicating him in the murders.
I must admit that I liked the idea of some of the murder victims getting their just deserts which meant that I found the ending rather satisfying.
Не е „новият Декстър“, както я рекламират, но е приятна за четене. Много цинизми, които са абсолютно на място, малко прекаляване с политиката, но и това е простимо, както и доста менторски тон на места... Като цяло — симпатично четиво.
A decent enough mystery, but it has pacing issues. Things don't really start to happen until halfway through, and the setup isn't enough to keep you interested until that point. Pretty good once it gets going, though.
Then only a few more pages in, you meet Mr. Archer on the other end of the phone - the contact who Cameron hopes is going to lead him to a Watergate sized scoop.`As the first half of the book progresses, (surprsingly quickly since the pages go by faster than you realize) we mostly follow present day Cameron - on the job, playing video games, out for a drink, taking direction from Mr. Archer.
The investigating officer however seems to believe in his innocence & when he suggests that the killer's identity might be found in Colley's past, the flashbacks reveals a lot of truths & suddenly each of the characters don't look the decent individuals you presumed they would be.There are a lot (and I mean it) of good things about this book.
Where the brilliance of this approach lies is that Banks uses this tool both for the protagonist Colley as well as the mysterious serial killer.
The reader needs to be alert as Banks keeps switching the narration between Colley & the killer in almost every chapter until the identity of the killer is revealed.
Thus Banks also spins a weave amongst his chain of books, making the reader fall into his literary trap in the same way that some of the main characters in the books spiral inside the novels.I was so intrigued by this book that I bought an original DVD of the movie based on the book.
But I admit without shame that I did not watch the movie before re-reading the book for the second time!Banks writes in a way I have never experienced: one minute he's spending long chapters describing a grey, dull-looking building.
Banks's simple yet descriptive imagery made this book increasingly addictive as I read through the chapters.
A wee confusing at first because Banks alternates chapters and subject of narration to switch between the two main characters: the murderer and the journalist.
I'm officially an Iain Banks fan now and reading one of his sci-fi books for the first as well.
It's intersting to pass on the famous Iain Banks cliche: his published sci-fi works are presented under the name of Iain M.
Banks whereas thriller/horror works are shown written by Iain Banks.
The most masterful quality of Iain Banks' novel titled Complicity is its use of first and second person narration.
We read his story through his eyes, in first person.
Alternately we are vicariously led by second person narration through a series of murders and humiliation assaults in present day London.
These two stories eventually meet but the trip to the junction is strewn with Banks' beautiful prose and nail-biting descriptions.
This is only the second Iain Banks novel I read, The Wasp Factory being the first, but it will not be the last.
Giving it only three stars is not really fair, as it is quite excellent in its genre.
It's probably more that I'm a bit tired of the thriller/crime-fic/social indignation genre...It's a well enough thought out story and the protagonist, a traditional "hack", is quite credible.
I always love it when books are set in Scotland - I can't explain why - still haven't been!The narrator is a master of accents, which is quite entertaining, surely, but in the end slightly irritating.
I'm not sure that I really want narrators to act like they are in a radio play rather than reading a book.
Currently reading a succession of Iain Banks novels (not his sci fi yet). Great writer. Why did I not discover him before? So far I've read Stonemouth, good not great. Whit and Complicity great, ingenious. Solid plots, narrative I feel like reading aloud. Just started The Crow Road. So far so interesting.
This is just the sort of thing I expect from Banks - a weird little story focused on a small group of people, many of whom aren't even that likeable, but you get sucked in and it's hard to stop reading as you just need to find out what the hell is going on!We follow Cameron Colley, a journalist with a mild drug, drink and gaming habit.
He knows he didn't do them, but can he be sure he's not complicit in the crimes!I didn't like Cameron at all.
But the book moves quickly enough that liking him or not doesn't matter.
This is the first book in ages I've felt a real compulsion to read and finish, which is not to say it's necessarily better than the last few books I've read, just that it's the kind of book that's utterly compelling.I loved particularly the use of first and second person perspectives and the switching between them, used particularly deftly right at the end of the book.
It's really the sort of book Irvine Welsh seems to be trying to write, but can't.It's only my second Iain Banks, after The Wasp Factory, I'll be working my way through plenty more, I have no doubt.
Iain Banks writes how I wish I were able. I never find myself forgetting them or whatat happened in them because I'm truly within them while reading.
"Oh God help me here on the island of the dead with the cries of the tormented, here with the angel of death and the acrid stench of excrement and carrion taking me back in the darkness and the pale fawn light to the place I never wanted to go back to, the man-made earthly black hell and the human scrap yard kilometres long. Here down amongst the dead men, midst-ways with the torn-souled and their wild, inhuman screams; here with the ferryman, the boatman, my eyes covered and my brains scramble
Cameron is working himself into a psychological tizzy, he is physically wasting away, his mental state is unstable; it looks like the wild goose chase has finally gotten to him but the murders haven't stopped.
The first person narrative involves a journalist who smokes weed, drinks liquor, takes amphetamines, plays video games to stay awake and keep from getting drowsy which makes him a questionable narrator with regards to reliability and in a never-ending state of unrest.
When I first approached Banks with this novel, I wondered whether the same eclecticism existed in contemporary Scottish literature.
I started to feel my ears (and eyes) pricking up when his main protagonist, Gonzo journalist Cameron Colley, used a Pixies tape in his car to keep him awake on a nightly drive home.
Banks, in depicting Colley, lived up to the Gonzo ethics: very little objectivity, strong social critique, self-deprecating humor, constant reference to personal experiences (including illicit ones), first-person narration (except for the murderer, which is interestingly in the second person), frequent use of profanity.
If this is apparently not his best novel, I look forward to reading some more Banks.
There is a murderer who's got very elaborate ways of eliminating those bad men (nope, not AS elaborate as those of Nesbo's characters, but getting close).
There is a sloppy and reckless journalist who is supposed to give a fuck about all those murders, but he mostly spends his time playing a computer game and exploring those above mentioned substances.
But there are clear signs on Banks-the-good-guy, Banks the devout fan of Scotland, Banks the sentimentalist, which is definitely my favorite kind of Banks and which makes my time with this book worthwhile.***Into Edinburgh by late lunch-time, past the signs trumpeting the up-coming Euro-summit.
