https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48862.Brighton_Rock
Like most of the author's novels, this book also  "bears the imprint of cinema"  and Catholicism exerts a significant influence on some of the characters.The story starts with the murder of Hale, a reporter who had also played the part of an informer for the Colleoni gang which led to the murder of Kite, a gang leader.
Pinkie has nothing but contempt for Rose yet he feels that Rose somehow  "completes him"  Pinkie and Rose are unified in their Catholic beliefs of hell and damnation.
Alas, men like Pinkie have no value for such love and dedication.Finally, my favourite character in this novel - Ida Arnold, demimondaine, gritty, secular, brainy.
Scappa da Londra a Brighton, località di mare per eccellenza del regno Unito (come se fosse la nostra Rimini), perché ha tradito l’ex capo della gang (**) e sa che Pinkie lo vuole morto.Non riesce a salvare la pelle, ma prima di morire incontra Ida, del tutto estranea alla vicenda, donna di mezza età in carne e di buon cuore, che da quel momento giura di vendicare Hale smascherando Pinkie.
Rating: 4.25* of fiveThe Publisher Says: In this classic novel of murder and menace, Graham Greene lays bare the soul of a boy of seventeen who stalks Brighton's tawdry boardwalk with apathy on his face and murder in his heart.
M. Coetzee.Originally published in 1938, Brighton Rock is a novel of profound psychological mystery and chilling suspense.
I was completely delighted by the tone of the book, I was half in love with Ida, I was even sad for the killer and his parched, wounded soul.A marvelous entertainment, then, and one whose substantial moral manages to keep itself underneath the story being told, supporting it.
A lurid, compelling, and profound look at a small-time criminal enthralled with evil, the young woman he deceives, and the detective who hunts him down. Wonderfully chilling.
The fun of the book, the bulk of the story, is in Ida circling closer and closer to the party we know to be the killer, and the multiple characters trailing in his wake slowly falling to his amoral, sociopathic self-preservation response.
Greene's characters are, as in others of his work that I've read, mouthpieces for a worldview.
I was completely delighted by the tone of the book, I was half in love with Ida, I was even sad for the killer and his parched, wounded soul.A marvelous entertainment, then, and one whose substantial moral manages to keep itself underneath the story being told, supporting it.
At various times they discuss their beliefs in light of the murder Pinky commits at the beginning of the story:“But you do believe, don’t you," Rose implored him, "you think it’s true?""Of course it’s true," the Boy said.
It was worth murdering a world.” This is a pretty gripping and visceral story of the slums of 1930 Brighton, submerged in the twisted Catholic beliefs of his damned main characters.
Her old style dogma of enjoying life, no matter how bad a "Christian" this might make you, includes solving crimes just for the hell of it and for the sake of belonging to the side of Good.
It rivals overrated Gatsby in its encapsulation of an antique age where characters breathed and plotted and lived.
The good guy (bad girl/experienced woman) fights the bad guy (innocence personified) by lingering around his digs and making things quite uncomfortable for him while preaching her pagan and carefree lifestyle.
He has a Catholic conscience and the woman does not.
605. Brighton Rock, Graham GreeneBrighton Rock is a novel by Graham Greene, published in 1938.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هشتم ماه دسامبر سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: صخره برایتون؛ نویسنده: گراهام گرین؛ مترجم: مریم مشرف؛ تهران، ثالث؛ روایت، 1380؛ در 404 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1388؛ شابک: 9789646404151؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی، قرن 20 مپسر هفده ساله ای که نماینده «شر» است بر اثر حادثه ای با دختری شانزده ساله به نام «رز» که مظهر خیر است برخورد میکند. پسر با تمام وجود نیمه دیگر خود را میخواهد، یک چند از او میگریزد
از نظر «آیدا آرنولد» پاسخ به این سوال چنین است: «براساس عدالت و رفتاری که آسیبی به دیگران نرساند».
اما او آسیب را به میل خود تفسیر می‌کند، و با این که هرگز اجازه نمی‌دهد که هیچ چیز، حتی عرف و سنت، آزادی او را محدود کند، خود، آزادی «رز» را از او می‌رباید، و به جای او درباره زندگی‌ ایشان تصمیم می‌گیرد.
بخش بزرگی از وقایع داستان، به روابط یک گروه گانگستری اختصاص دارد، و طنز تلخ «گرین» در این اثر، متوجه فساد در دستگاه اجرایی و قضایی انگلستان است.
I'd just finished a book about 1940s/50s Cuba, in which Graham Greene is mentioned as having visited and enjoyed a place where "one could obtain anything at will, whether drugs, or women, or goats".
Since I've been meaning to read more Greene, I figured now would be a good time for Our Man in Havana.
A couple days pass, things come up, apparently my memory is shit, and for some reason I start reading Brighton Rock.
I'm an idiot...This book has very little to do with Cuba.
Introduction & Notes--Brighton Rock
This is not a cheery read so be prepared to feel out of sorts.It starts with 'Fred' Hale who knows he's to be killed but tries to keep someone by his side to prevent it happening - his chosen mate to this end is Ida who is a brassy sort but with a good sense of right and wrong.When she discovers that the date she thought had stood her up has been found dead she suspects foul play and sets about finding the proof to bring someone to justice.It's not easy though - Pinkie is the young leader of a gang who knows what happened to Fred and furthermore is hell-bent on making sure the truth does not surface...and if this means engaging the affections of a girl called Rose then so be it.This book is beautifully written in that it captures Brighton at that time and the feelings of all the characters involved perfectly, but it does not make for pleasant reading.(view spoiler)[Pinkie is an abhorrent character and although his terrible childhood background is hinted at, Greene does not try to excuse the fact that Pinkie no longer has normal feelings.
The woman could tell her nothing she didn't know about these- she knew by tests as clear as mathematics that Pinkie was evil- what did it matter in that case whether he was right or wrong?That's pretty much the book right there.
I think the argument is more that it is better to feel damned by everything you do, be obsessed with the feeling of sin, relish in it, need more of it, need more to rebel against, as Pinkie does, than to just feel tepidly, to accept everything as just "human nature," as Ida Arnold does, the mistress of temporal right and wrong.
“A Catholic is more capable of evil than anyone.” Brighton Rock  I signed this paper saying I would sleep with a writer.
When I’m pushed to critique what I didn’t absolutely love I usually resort to asking questions.
I didn’t love Brighton Rock.
God didn’t mind a bit of human nature – what he minded – and her brain switched away from Phil in pants to her mission, to doing good, to seeing that the evil suffered…” But can a Catholic really contain the potential for more evil than anyone else?
It’s a crime novel, but Greene has other agendas as well in this book.
One assumes he gained some kind of comfort from his religion, and one assumes it gave him the strength to go on living after his early struggles with depression, boredom and obsessive thoughts about suicide, although sometimes it’s difficult to see that exactly the attraction was.
Pinkie, the teenage gangster who is the main character in Brighton Rock, is thoroughly evil, and it is a particular kind of Catholic upbringing that has made him evil.
Brighton Rock is an outstanding book by a great novelist.
Between the cover blurb and that amazing first line, I was fully expecting a crime novel here, but it didn't take too long before I discovered that this book goes far beyond the reach of a thriller and deep into the zone of existential and metaphysical complexity, turning it into a novel that I will never, ever forget.http://www.readingavidly.com/2017/11/...
A dark, wet & windy day (like today!) is probably the ideal time to stay indoors & listen to this BBC full cast audio version of Graham Greene's classic story Brighton Rock. I must admit that I really like this novel. I've probably read Brighton Rock too many times & I even enjoyed the 1947 & 2010 film versions. This audio adaptation & is well cast, & the only things missing are Greene's prose & one of my favourite closing lines of any novel I've ever read.
As Leah says, for an early work it's brilliant but he just hadn't developed his skills as far as needed to tell this story AND get his message across in an entertaining way.Fred Hale, enemy of teen gangster Pinkie is in Brighton and scared for his life.
Ida Arnold gets a lot more game time in the novel than in the movie and she's a brilliant character despite her obvious nature as a caricature of the British working class woman.
Greene was at least to some degree a devout Catholic himself, but my reading of Brighton Rock paints an awfully ugly picture of the faith: it can conceive only of Good and Evil, not of Right and Wrong; if you resign yourself to damnation -- as do Pinkie and his accidental girlfriend Rose, one of the most tragic characters in any literature I know of -- then you're bound by no code, unburdened by any conscience, capable and willing to execute any misdeed.
OK, I admit defeat. If I had not chosen to read this whilst ill I imagine I would have got through it, since it is short by modern standards. As it is I just can't stand to spend more time around these characters that I uniformly can't empathise with and mostly find irritating or down-right unpleasant. There is a character one is supposed (I assume) to like and root for but I find her as annoying as the other two major protagonists. Ultimately I just find these people boring. So, I give up having made it approximately half-way.
Truman Capote calls this, "An incredibly beautiful, perfect novel." Why argue? He then adds, "It has the greatest last four paragraphs of any modern novel I can think of."
Classics Cleanup Challenge #15Audiobook #163This is a great story but a terrible audiobook
Rose is very good in the new film however.....Feb 20th - had to go out for a family thing, and it's getting on now, so will shape up my notes and post here now (haven't read anyone else's yet):This novel has settled deeply within me, I realise, from the first time I read it in 1969.
The passage, the pages that made me love this book and Greene were the ones after Pinkie is razored on the racecourse, runs and finds refuge in a garage:The garage had never been used for a garage; it had become a kind of potting shed.
But it's amazing to see how complex his attitude towards Catholicism was even at that point in his career (or, more accurately, since every Catholic's attitude towards Catholicism is complex, how complexly he was able to articulate said attitude).So Pinky, the main character, who is often and somewhat annoyingly referred to as The Boy, has just inherited a kind of gang from this guy Kite, whom I desperately want to believe is the inspiration for DFW's narcotics salesman/addict Trent Kite (can't back this up, as we don't learn much about Greene's Kite).
Greene's Catholic novels are amazing. His prose rips the scabs off humanity and the reader is left at once holding both the pain of sin and the healing of faith all at once. It doesn't matter if you are Catholic, Mormon, agnostic or an atheist ... Greene's struggles with faith and the ambiguities of existence are about as large a tribute to man as you are likely to find.
Anyone finding one of the cards, presenting it to Kibber wins a cash prize from the paper.Today's PR route put Hale and Pinkie Brown on a collision course.
When she realizes that Pinkie's not only taking himself down fool's road, but also an innocent girl, Ida must turn wrong to right and save Rose in the bargain.Graham Greene plots many a twist and turn.
He doesn't have to worry about it until he dies.Graham Greene was one of those authors who seemed to have a natural instinct for what made good cinema.
But I've never read any novel more horrifying than this.Here's a frail-looking boy with a feminine name: Pinkie.
Just seventeen years old and still a virgin.
But he is the leader of a small gang and he kills.Then here's a sixteen-year-old, equally frail, waitress, Rose.
She loves Pinkie.
She knows something which could implicate Pinkie in two of the murders he had committed.
And even up to the end, after the very last sentence which reads: "She walked rapidly in the thin June sunlight towards the worst horror of all.", you will still be reeling from the sheer brilliance of the story-telling done here.
I'm still coming to terms with the ending, or last lines of this grim and gritty story.
The story is set against the backdrop of Brighton in the early 1930's.
The leader of a small and motley razor gang, led by the hard as nails Pinkie Brown is looking to expand his criminal empire.When he succeeds in taking out a journalist who has some shadowy connections to a rival gang, PinKie's quest for recognition and respect begins to spiral out of control.
This was never going to be a pretty story, the characters are too tired and the struggle to survive is too hard.
One of Greene's better novels, and one that works on multiple levels. If you want a good British thriller, you'll get it. If you want a deep exploration of morality, good and evil, and sin, you'll get that too. He's written such a wide array of books that it's hard not to find one that you'd like.Recommended for those who like good books of all types.
Set in Brighton, the novel revolves around Pinky, a young anti hero and his attempts to take control of a criminal gang.
Unfortunately, though, Hale is recognised by Pinky and his gang as being involved in the earlier murder of another criminal, Kite.
Realising that his life is in danger, Hale finds fun-loving Ida Arnold on the pier, and tries to keep her with him as a witness – but it isn’t enough to save his life.What follows is a hideous chain of events, in which Pinky attempts by more and more desperate measures to cover up his role in the murder.
He drew a line between the "Entertainments" like Stamboul Train and The Third Man (none of which I've read) and the more serious "Novels." You could break it down further: he wrote some political novels like the Quiet American and Our Man in Havana, and a number of religious (Catholic) ones like Power and the Glory, End of the Affair and Brighton Rock.
Brighton Rock is candy, like this:"Bite it all the way down, you'll still read Brighton," says Big Blonde Ida. And is the Boy rotten all the way through?
And that's why Graham Greene is one of my favorite writers.
