https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67266.Emil_and_Karl
Because of this, the book mainly contains easy to understand descriptions and events that are quite fast.
This books gives a unique perspective on the affect of the Holocaust not on just Jews but for both Jews and Non- Jewish communities that tried to stop the Nazi acts and fight for the rights of the Jewish community.
Emil and Karl may not be one of the most popular or impacting books that people seek today, but it does carry a different outlook on how the Holocaust was not just about Jews and Nazis, but it was about everyone being affected whether it was psychically or morally changing to the people.
This is a new translation of a book that was actually written in 1940 in Yiddish for children to understand what was happening. This is a strong and frightening book about the time, as well as being about the power of resistance. The horror is handled appropriately for children.
This is the compelling story of two 9 year old boys, Emil and Karl, who are best friends and find themselves in just that situation.There are a few reasons that this book stands out from many other World War II books.
After time, the countryside, too, becomes a dangerous place to be and the boys are encouraged to leave the country by train, along with many other orphaned innocent children.
The harrowing story of two 9 year-old Austrian boys, one of whom is Jewish and one of whom isn't, caught up in war.
It is interesting because it is from the point of view of the children, and written in the time of war, in 1940, so you get a different kind of sensibility, no big picture just the day to day of what is happening in the lives of the two boys as their lives change completely and inexorably.
The friendship between the two boys is beautifully written and I'm sure that young people who enjoy reading war stories would like it.
What is special about this book is that it was one of the first novels published about the Holocaust. Realizing that it was published in German in 1940 made me look at it in a different way.
I thought it was a really good book and I suggest it to anyone who likes holocaust or anyone who wants a little glimpse on some stuff that happened.
This book takes place during the Time of the Holocaust.
Emil and Karl's families have gone through situations where they either got taken away, died, or unable to take care of them.
Throughout the story, Emil and Karl end up with different families who are in different situations.
They learn that everyone one is different, and that you don't need a king sized bed or an eight course meal everyday to be health and happy.
I recommend this book for anyone who has an interest for history (and maybe particularly the Holocaust), and for people who want to learn about what the children went through during this tragic time.
Glatshteyn, Yankev Emil and Karl 194 p.
Roaring Brook (Holtzbrinck) – Emil and Karl are best friends in the city of Vienna at the start of World War II.
Through horrible circumstances, both young boys are left orphaned and without family to take them in.
Their little eyes see many of the cruel atrocities carried out in the name of Christianity upon the bodies of Austria’s Jews.
This amazing thing about this book is that it was written in 1940, in Yiddish, so that the Jewish children of America could know what was really going on in Europe.
I am amazed that it hadn’t surfaced in English before now.
I read this book as an English assignment. It is about two boys, Emil and Karl, who are living during the Holocaust. Emil is Jewish and Karl is not. They lose their parents during they war, forcing them to stick together in order to stay alive. I enjoyed the book other than the vague ending. I recommend it to those interested in the historical fiction genre.
Hindsight is what makes this book so horrifying. Then you add the fact that it was written before WWII and it adds a whole other dimension to the book. This /should/ be on school curriculums.
One of the first WWII books written by an ex-patriot Jew for young people even before the USA entered the war.
This book is breathtaking and so amazing because it focuses on the lives of two young boys who persevere to live or die together till end.This book impacted the audience in a good way because it raised awareness of the things that happened in the holocaust.
Though the holocaust is a depressing topic, the author chose to write about a friendship that overlooked the malicious times.
The book is very well written because it is easy to read, very captivating, and brings out emotions which the author wants to do.
The conclusion was a little confusing at first but when I thought about it and the book as a whole it is a great ending and the author definitely leaves you thinking.
Emil, Karl, and the place they are located, including several different houses and families, is essential to the other elements of the story.
Most of the places they lived in were not with family, or people they were familiar with which is why there friendship is so important.
This was a great novel and was unlike any other holocaust book I've read.
I really liked the idea of this book, and I was eager to read it as the idea of two little boys telling the story is really intriguing, however it was very disappointing.
You can definitely tell that this is a children's book, the writing and storyline aren't as detailed as it could be, and a lot of information is left out, leading to a bit of confusion.
This book was also originally written in Yiddish, and has been translated into English.
But it may be insightful for a 12-15 year old who is possibly learning about WWII in school, or who wants to know a little bit more about what actually happened.
Emil & Karl is a far more sensitive, authentic, moving, and inspiring story than The Boy in the Striped Pajamas, which came out the following year (2007), and invested all the emotional identification of the reader in the ignorant and passive son of a Nazi officer - who is about the same age as the boys in this wonderful story.
Where Bruno (in Pajamas) is confused, petulant, and passive, Emil and Karl (in this great book) are courageous, steadfast, hard-working, faithful, perspicacious, perceptive, loving, and strong - and still behave in ways that are fully consistent with their age and with history.
Emil and Karl begins with Karl's mother being dragged away.
Karl's father was taken away an killed by the Nazis because he was a resistance leader.
When the Nazis come to take away Karl's mother, they abuse Karl.
When Karl reaches Emil he finds out that Emil's father has been taken away too.
Emil and Karl stand up for each other like brother's would for each other in time of war, even though they are not related.This book was pretty good.
The friendship between the two boy's was extremely strong, more than I could think my friends could give me.
I love the idea of loving Emil and Karl by Yankev Glatshteyn.
Emil and Karl was written in 1940 in Yiddish.
It is the first--or at least among the very first--book written for children about the persecution Jews were experiencing from the Nazis.
Emil and Karl have always, always been best friends.
The book opens with intensity: readers first glimpse of Karl is haunting.
Karl's mother has been taken away by the Nazis.
Karl and Emil are very much on their own it seems.
But if you only read one book on the subject, I'd have to recommend you go with another book.
Written in 1938, first published in 1940 in Yiddish for Jewish children living in U.S. to acquaint them with disturbing, current events taking place in Eastern Europe.
One of the first novels for any age group that describes the Nazi persecution of the Jews.
(translated & published in English in 2006)This is one of the more chilling children's Holocaust stories I have read.
There are arrests; some brutal scenes of beatings of Jews by Nazis; "off-stage" executions; a suicide.
The scenes of cruel humiliation of the Jews by the Nazis are very disturbing.
One of the first books written during the devastation in Austria caused by Hitler.
One of them is Jewish and the other is simply a friend of a Jewish boy.
Being a friend in this time and place is enough to condemn and persecute.
All of the children at school hurtle insults, spit at, kick and punch the two boys.
There are some truly gruesome and sad scenes in the book.
It's technically a juvenile book (or at least it is in my library).
It's a book an adult can get a lot from.
A sweet story, made all the more poignant by the fact that it was written by a Jewish author prior to 1940, before anyone knew the truth about WWII.
The ending is particularly haunting given what we know now - the image of Emil and Karl being separated on a train out of Vienna brings to mind much more sinister images of Jews being packed into train cars on their way to concentration camps and almost certain death.
At times the writing was a little simplistic, even for a children's story, but it dealt with some heavy topics in a deft and vivid way, and certainly left an impression on me.
The thing that completely blew me away was that this book was published IN 1940. It reads like a novel published twenty or thirty years AFTER the Holocaust, when all the horrors which happened had been brought to light. But Glasthteyn (and many others, obviously) knew what was going on, right up to the concentration camps. It's amazing to me that people read "Emil and Karl" while the Holocaust was happening. Sadly, it's also safe to assume that most of them did nothing about it. A wonderful book, enthralling story, and a beautiful translation.

*3.5/5* Had this on my shelf for a while that I got from a library book sale and was able to read it for a children's literature course I'm taking! Glad I finally got around to it. A very straightforward read about two boys, one Jewish and one not, surviving together in Vienna prior to World War II. The book was actually published in 1940, which gives it a really interesting perspective. Would recommend!
A novel set during the Holocaust that chronicles the experiences of two 9-year old boys; one Jewish, the other not, and the hardships they endure in pre-WWII Vienna. Written at a very low level, it's too easy a read and too uninformative for true enjoyment. It seems utterly improbable and it doesn't even resolve the overall problem of what's going to happen to the 2 protagonists. Maybe adequate for third or fourth-graders.
This young adult novel is an intriguing insight into the situation of Austrian Jews just before the outbreak of World War II. The author was a Polish Jew living in exile in USA and who was shocked to see the escalation in the persecution of Jews when visiting Europe in the late 1930s. It is somewhat chilling to note that this short novel was written before the world knew about Nazi death camps and the Holocaust.
Poignant YA novel about two boys who are close friends in Vienna after the Nazis take over in about 1939. One is a Jew and they both have lost their parents. They are helped at one point by a couple of "rightous gentile" freedom fighters. This is a good one to read for Holocaust studies. It does not go into the detention camps but it is an early outcry against them. Originally in Yiddish, it was first written in 1940 in the U.S.
Written in the form of a suspense novel, Emil & Karl draws readers into the dilemma faced by two young boys--one Jewish, the other not--when they suddenly find themselves without homes or families in Vienna on the eve of World War II. A taut, gripping page-turner, it offers a picture of life during the period and the moral challenges faced under Nazism--and a prescient glimpse of the early days of the Holocaust.
It is hard to believe that this was written in 1940 - even by then the author (and the world) were aware of some of the horrible things happening to Europeans Jews. Yet not everyone seemed to realise how wrong it was and could not foresee how bad it would get. The book feels incredibly insightful and I would make sure that every young person reads it and understands the historical context.
This is such a haunting book. Emil and Karl go through so much and this is just a tiny representation of the full scale of the holocaust; it's terrifying to know how powerless ordinary people were and although it seems to be a happy ending, I can't help but feel that something very sinister is around the corner.
Exciting and heartbreaking book about two boys whose families are killed by Nazis. One for being socialist and one for being Jewish. They try to survive on the streets of Vienna together. This book was actually written before the end of WWII so the author did not know which side would win. Very riveting.
