https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9418.Shopaholic_Takes_Manhattan
I love shopping vicariously through Becky!
I read the first Shopaholic book and absolutely loved how fun and fanciful the whole idea was, and Becky's romance with Luke was unexpected and sweet.
She has an amazing, fun job that she excels at, and a great boyfriend, supportive friends, awesome parents, and she places more importance on designer clothing than any of that and even risks losing it all for the perfect pair of "clementine" heels.I thought the romance fell flat in this one, even though I loved Becky and Luke in the first book.
4.5/5Book 10/100 for 2015!I loved this book! Rebecca really grew as a character and I am in LOVE with her and Luke. I really enjoyed the change in location from London to NYC as well! I can't wait to get my hands on the next book!
I tried, I really did...
but I couldn't get past the first chapter...
and knowing that there are, what, 3?
4? more books in the series after this...
I just couldn't make myself finish it.
so the fact that this dim-wit is now giving others financial advice left a bad taste in my mouth...
and the fact that she had dug herself into debt again just made me mad.
I looked at all the other books on my quite-full shelf and decided that I just couldn't waste any more time with Shopaholic!
You would think that with the second book, Rebecca has at least grown some or gained depth.
I got the message.Rebecca doesn't deserve to have a job or live in a posh (or close to) flat.
That you can dick around with money but still be able to be GIVEN money by a financial institution to afford a £50 hat?Sophie should've bankrupt this silly child completely such that she'd be trying to dig herself out of the financial mess for years on end, just to teach her a friggin' lesson that she would never forget.
It’s like leading an alcoholic to all the best hidden bars. Oh, Becky. I liked this one even more than the first. A funny, engaging series with a heroine who has zero self-control when it comes to spending money she doesn’t have. Cringe-worthy at times but written with entertainment in mind and well-meaning underlying themes.
Following Becky Bloomwood's life with her little issue of overextending herself with credit cards and her need for the designer offerings. I first saw the movie and it set a pretty high bar. when I read book 1 I didn't find the movie in that book, but it was definitely lurking inside this one. I was happy to find the familiar workings of Becky's mind in full glory in this book. I liked the book enough to move on to book 3.
I think it's because I have already read these books and the latest, that I just feel nothing but flat out annoyance towards Rebecca (Becky) and her hare-brained schemes to not pay her bills, to cover up when she's in over her head, and somehow through sheer luck to get out of trouble.
But then we are supposed to ignore his need to prove himself in America cause Becky gets her feelings hurt when they go to New York.
I think it is because you are just waiting for the characters to move along to New York.
3.5 stars
I am (slowly) working my way through this series and re-reading it before the movie premiers.
I laughed my way through the books the first time and really got a kick out of it.
And I am laughing again the second time 'round too; however, I am starting to realize that Becky is - to put it quite frankly - DUMB!
Pure dumb luck is the only thing that pulls her out of the strange and contradictory situations that this girl gets herself into.
The script re-write appears to be funnier and smarter than the books.
I know I know - I hated the first one, why read the second?
I actually really TRIED to like these since my friend just LOVED them and raved about them and continuously wanted to discuss them.
*sigh* I wouldn't have finished if I didn't have this obsessive tendency to HAVE to finish a book I start.
Our favorite whiny, self-destructive, vacuous character on a rampage in Manhatten - despite finding the "job of her dreams" she manages to be miserable.
Bah. I don't think I disliked it because of the genre, though it's not my favorite, I just hated the main character...still.
I really really needed to reread the Shopaholic series right now.
I need something light and fun as I stay home fighting the Flu. The only things keeping me going are Thera-Flu, The X-Files and Becky Bloomwood.
Last night I decided to read some of the 1 & 2 star rating for this series and it made me laugh.
Apparently those readers seem to think that this series is just fluff and Becky is a terrible role model who makes terrible decisions.
I'm high on Thera-Flu, I don't need a book that's going to make me think.
If you hated book 1, why would read this one?
Enjoyed this one more than Confessions of a Shopaholic. Look forward to reading more of her antics. 3.5 stars!
Or maybe just the gym will be enough.”Okay, so for some reason when I first read this book back in 2015 I rated it 2 stars??!!
Hopefully this review will redeem myself because Shopaholic Takes Manhattan was so freaking good!I guess I should start off with some spoilers.(view spoiler)[SO I was so sad that Derek Smeath was retiring in this book but I did like that the new guy, John Gavin definitely gave Rebecca the swift kick in the ass she needed.
4.5/5Once again, Sophie Kinsella does it: she creates a funny, romantic and original novel.I loved the first book in this series.
She just gets herself in bad situations, but little by little, she learns.I loved how Becky and Luke's situation progressed in this book, because I have to admit I was scared when I learned that they got in a relationship in the first book of a series and I'm always scared of reading more about some characters' relationship when I'm already satisfied by it.
Whether it's what Becky's saying or doing or simply the way it's described, it's hilarious and I love this series for making me decompress.
Follow her boyfriend, of course!And soon, Becky Bloomwood strikes again!
Becky accompanies boyfriend Luke Brandon in NYC and before she knows it, things get out of hand (as well as her money out of her credit cards).
She goes back to her overspending ways and retorts that NYC is her real home, the place she is destined to fulfill her dreams and spend the rest of her life in.
Soon, she finds herself enmeshed in an office conspiracy, causing distress in her love life.
Becky mystified me.
Luke would be a fool to let go of her.
hahahahaha!!!!!
I mean her life is fabulous and terrific and pathetic at the same time.
I love this book, I totally love this book.
because like Becky, I myself put my leg on an axe so many times, screwed my life so many phases of my life still I survive the situation by continuous witty lies (don't judge me okay?
I have also a good heart like her) and then one day wins everybody's heart and my luck with my truth and hard work.
It's a fun read, a very comfy read to relax your mind.
highly recommended to depressed soul.
Becky's carelessness seriously gives me anxiety. As someone who's always been stingy with my money, I can't imagine spending so carelessly. That being said, I do have a closet stuffed full of clothes and Becky's eventual purge inspired me to do the same just this morning. Yay me! And I know that Becky surely won't actually learn a lesson and go through the same thing again next book.
This was a terrific, funny book.
Book two of the Shopaholic series sees Becky and her boyfriend Luke moving to New York so he can set up a new office there.
But that's not a bad thing -- this is a terrific book to curl up in bed with, or to take to the beach with you.
I thought Becky was much more well developed and likeable in this book.
She has more confidence and she takes charge of her life more -- I really liked how she handled herself when everything fell apart.
I like Luke, although he still could've used more depth.
Sebenernya cuman iseng2 aja baca bukunya.
Habis aku suka gayanya Kinsella di Finding Audrey.
Dan aku ngakak juga akhirnya.
Terus kayaknya aku ngerasain banget jadi Becky.
Tapi ga separah dia sih, maksudnya pasti deh para bookworm kalo udah liat buku diskon, niatnya beli satu, eh taunya pulang-pulang bawa lima.
Atau pas cuman pengen window shopping doang, eh malah beli.
Haha si Bekcy ini parah banget, kayaknya ga bisa nahan godaan.
Sampai utangnya numpuk banyak dan dia dipecat dari pekerjaannya.
Im grinning ear to ear omg seriously, Luke sweet parah.
So, 4 bintang buat buku ini c:
In realtà 4,5 stelline.Mi mancava tantissimo Sophie Kinsella, soprattutto mi mancavano Rebecca ed il suo shopping sfrenato.Dopo il primo volume della serie, volevo assolutamente continuare a leggere di questa storia e finalmente sono riuscita a fare un passo avanti.Devo dire che rispetto al primo volume della serie sono cambiate alcune cose, soprattutto nel mio modo di vedere i personaggi.
Penso siano normali delle "evoluzioni" e ne sono molto contenta.Rebecca è sicuramente molto diversa: se nel primo libro quasi odiavo la sua compulsività, in questo secondo mi ha fatto molto ridere e mi è piaciuto il fatto che verso la fine capisca qualcosa in più della sua vita.
Shopaholic takes Manhattan was a fun book to read. i listened to it while i followed in the book. i was constantly laughing or giggling. i highly recommended it. One of those books you can totally picture yourself in the middle of what was happening!
At A GlanceGenre: Chick litLove Triangle/Insta Love?: nope.Cliff Hanger: nope.Rating: 4.5 starsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  7 Plot:  8Characters: 8World Building: 7Flow:  8Series Congruity: 8Writing: 8Ending: 8Total: 8In DeptBest Part: New York!Worst Part: Again, too clean an ending.Thoughts Had: yay new york!; that witch!ConclusionContinuing the Series: yah!Recommending: yahShort Review: I think that the fact that i read two of Sophie's books in just 1 day should be reason enough for others to pick up her books!
Again, a too clean ending, especially since it's a series and the ending could have a been a huge cliff hanger but instead i got some cleanness.

How could you not be excited for Becky Bloomwood and her traveling to New York City with her hot new man. New love is so much fun and I love reading about the ins and outs of it. Plus, the best shopaholic is in NYC, one of the best cities for fashion lovers. If you loved part 1 like I did you will not be disappointed by part 2.
Toch nog tijd gevonden om tussen m'n Gilmore Girls verslaving door dit boek nog uit te lezen. Gewoon weer een typische Shopaholic. Met weer van die lachwekkende hopeloze gevallen. Op naar deel 3
Recensione con SPOILERVorrei poter dire che ho amato questo libro, che sono stata più che coinvolta nella storia, che Sophie Kinsella è una scrittrice fenomenale e che non vedo l’ora di poter mettere le mani su altri suoi libri e su altre storie eccezionali come questa.
I personaggi sono egoisti e stupidi – più che ingenui – e la storia non ha nulla di sensazionale, manca quel qualcosa che fa dire: “Wow, e adesso?” L’unico momento in cui ho pensato che valeva la pena andare avanti a leggerlo è stato alla fine, quando lei sbalordisce tutti dicendo che ha estinto i suoi debiti e quando poi Luke le va praticamente a chiedere di sposarlo.
I'm using this newfound knowledge to see if I can find some appreciation for the Shopaholic series after all, but so far, no.
I first read Confessions of a Shopaholic when I was in university and excess spending wasn't a luxury I could afford.
I thought perhaps that was why I didn't like it that much and would have more appreciation now that I'm older and have disposable income.
I admit that I sometimes should be tightening those proverbial purse strings myself, but I just can't get my head around Becky Bloomwood and her frivolous spending.
Becky is so awesome and so awkward at the same time. I would drown in shame if things like this would happen to me. And I would have punched some people. Like, a lot of them. Love the series so far!
I enjoyed this a lot I thought it was a lot of fun. Her shopping addiction felt more repetitive but the plot was interesting and different enough to keep me engaged
