https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96081.Sea_Glass
I almost passed on this book when I found it at a thrift store. The book's plot looked promising and I wasn't disappointed. My favorite quaote from the book:"The only problem with looking for sea glass", Sexton says one day when he and Honora are walking along the beach, "is that you never look up. You never see the view. You never see the houses or the ocean because you're afraid you'll miss something in the sand."
Love this line in the book when the main character Honora meets her prospective husband and is commenting on his less than perfect appearance...."Honora laid these flaws aside as one might overlook a small stain on a beautifully embroidered tablecloth one wanted to buy, only later to discover, when it was on the table and all the guests were seated around it, that the stain had become a beacon, while the beautiful embroidery lay hidden in everybody's laps."
What I liked: The setting - Shreve does a great job evoking the atmosphere of the New England coast/mill town in the Depression era.
I liked some of the characters but not all.
My main difficulty with the book is that I feel it's a little superficial.
Other characters like Sexton didn't interest me at all, so I couldn't figure out why Honora married him in the first place.
If it had a little more depth I would give it four stars but I don't think this one is going to stick with me.
I liked this book because it draws you in—you care about the characters.
And it also gives insight into a tragic part of our country’s history—the Great Depression of the 1920’s.
I liked that she used sea glass as a metaphor for the human spirit.
No matter how much it is battered by the rough sea, it does not break; it becomes more beautiful.
I loved the friendship between Honora and Vivian, women from two different worlds who are drawn together.
I didn’t want the story to end.
And, it got me interested in collecting seaglass, which I’m now obsessed with.
Though there were touching moments in this book that I enjoyed, I felt like the plot was SO boring for such an important issue.
I really had a hard time finishing this book (which is extremely rare,) until it started picking up a little bit at the end.
I always love the way Anita Shreve writes about character interaction.
Using her words, I can always picture exactly the way a person is moving, smiling, speaking, and how they are feeling.
Maybe that's why I'm so addicted to her despite the fact that half of her books are disappointing.Oh well.
Sexton is away every week because of his job as travelling salesman and Honora lives a quiet but very structured life.
She walks frequently on the lonely beach and collects colorful bits of sea glass.
Their home becomes the headquarters of the organizers, bringing them into the center of a dangerous and controversial movement.The historical context of the novel was interesting, but what was most compelling was Anita Shreve's ability to create a fully imagined, complex, sympathetic character - Honora Sexton.
I could imagine myself living in her time and faced with the same challenges.
This book is the reason that whenever I walk on the beach, I am walking stooped along the shore, searching for little bits of beach glass in the sand.
I don't have a big white platter like Honora does in this book, but a bowl full of beach glass is very satisfying to run your hands through (don't worry, it is so dulled by the sand and the waves that it's smooth and curved, not sharp anymore) .
VERY good love story.I know maybe Anita Shreve seems a bit like a "yeah, Oprah's book club, women's lite literature' but I personally love this book.
And the structure provided some great symbolism -- little threads weaving in and out of others' lives, sometimes only briefly, and sometimes with monumental consequences.One final note: I also recently read The Story of Edgar Sawtelle, and apparently like many others, absolutely hated the ending -- so much so that it ruined the whole book for me.
Wroblenski supposedly set out to write a tragedy, and I guess he did, although a completely pointless one that made we want to chunk the book in the trash.
Sea Glass provides a great contrast, and I would argue, is the way to write a tragedy without angering your readers.
From the moment we meet Honora (on-NOR-a), to her marriage to the creepy Sexton, to her walks on the oceanfront looking for sea glass, meeting her vibrant and very wealthy neighbor Vivian, and then came the millworkers’ labor strike of 1929 just when everything else in the world (stock market crash) went to hell.
There’s a strike, and Honora’s home is soon a safehouse for some of the workers.Shreve’s characters and her vivid descriptions of the sea glass, of Honora’s house, etc., but especially the characters, are what make this book.
I didn't expect terribly much from this book, but I felt the need to read it because, well, someone gave me a copy and it's party about the labor movement during the Depression in a textile mill town.
So I had no choice.I wish it were a better book.
It's nice summer reading, if you're not part of the "I only read happy books" crowd.
It's not a happy book.
But it never reaches tragedy, because, well, Shreve just can't get it there.
I really wanted it to be a better book.
Though it is certainly a nice read.
A Southwest Airlines flight attendant gave me this book when she saw me reading another Shreve novel and said this was the author's best work yet.
She was right!
Some Anita Shreve novels grab you from the start and don't let you go, while others are nearly impossible to get into.
Sea Glass is the former.
The plot and the characters are captivating, and the book provides a great history lesson on the early years of the labor movement in New England.
I definitely do not recommend all of Anita Shreve's novels, but this one is worth your time!
Onvan : Sea Glass - Nevisande : Anita Shreve - ISBN : 316013838 - ISBN13 : 9780316013833 - Dar 374 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2002
The men started to organize into a union, and Sexton and Honora were swept up in the effort.
There were also letters from Honora's mother, Alice, advising her how to maintain a household on a small amount of money, and offering warm motherly support.Throughout the story, Honora walked the beach looking for smooth sea glass.
The sea glass was bounced around by the waves like Honora was challenged by life.
While I enjoyed the story, I did not feel a strong emotional connection to the main characters.
The characters are wonderful, especially Honora.
Every time I have read this book I find myself wondering how she managed to marry Sexton Beecher (why?) He is incredibly dishosnest and just downright shady.
I wish Shreve had spent more time developing some of the other characters and the story about the mill strikes.
This novel incorporates the house that we see in The Pilot's Wife, Fortune's Rock, and Body Surfing.
For example, in this book, she mentions Olympia from Fortune's Rock (Honora even finds a picture of her), but she never explains what happened to her.
** 3.5 stars **I love Anita Shreve's writing as well as the characters she develops. I enjoyed the story quite a bit but I didn't love it as much as two other books I have read by her.
The year is 1929 as Honora and Sexton Beecher begin their life together as husband and wife.
As the entire country is falling on bad times, the bank calls in the Beecher's home loan and Sexton loses his job.
The author focuses on 5 main characters, each of their stories told in separate chapters, all of their lives gradually coming to intertwine: Honora, a homemaker; Sexton; Vivien, a high-society neighbor who becomes Honora's friend; McDermott, a mill-worker and a leader of the strike that would soon come to pass; and Alfonse, a young, mill-working 12-year old who McDermott befriends and quickly grows to love and watch over.
I find this somewhat off-putting each time I consider whether I want to read another Anita Shreve novel.
As with "The Pilot's Wife" by Anita Shreve, "Sea Glass" really resonated with me since I grew up on the coast of Maine and experienced so much of what the protagonist, Honora, experiences.
"Sea Glass" takes place in a New Hampshire beach town and actually travels to places familiar to me in Maine - particularly Sanford where I was born and spent my early years!
"Sea Glass" takes place in the late 1920s/early 1930s so the characters are swept up in consequences of the 1929 stock market crash, the Great Depression, and the decline and failure of many New England textile mills.
Our characters include a young newlywed couple, an 11 year old boy, a young 20-something man who has worked in the mills all his life, a 30-something wealthy woman, and a few communists to round out the group.
It was a bit confusing getting in to the book because each chapter (maybe only a page or two long) switches between characters and it can take a little bit to remember who, what, and where.
Although the worst part was the death of some and the escape of another, the book would have been better at the end if the final few chapters (that wrap it all up supposedly) were set five years into the future.
Weight of Water is still my favorite of Shreve's books, but she did 'Sea Glass' justice. I always admire her reverence/references to the horrendous Halifax disaster and how she incorporates it into her storylines. She took historical events of the early 20th century, such as the development of some of our first Unions and the cusp of the Great Depression, and wove realistic characters into these events; characters some may think not so original, but I feel appropriate and compelling given the monument historical events co-inciding and affecting their lives, sometimes with dire consequences.
With the background of '29 crisis Sexton & Honora, Vivian, McDermott and Alphonse's path come together.Quite slow in the beginning - I thought about quitting! - but eventually it does catch up and I've finished it in a sitting.
I had a hard time getting started on the first section of the book. Toward the end of the first section I was intrigued. By the second section I couldn't put the book down. And reading the third part broke my heart. What an amazing tale, marvelously told!!
I read this many years ago; another beautifully written Anita Shreve novel. And that house again...!
3.5 stars.
Love Anita Shreve's writing and liked this story but have liked others she wrote better.
Still recommend to my Goodreads friends that read Anita.
Coincidentally happened to be reading this while on New Hampshire coast so helped me to enjoy it more and want to read her other books that take place in same house and setting at different time periods - love that idea.
Liked how the characters intersected but the story dragged at times - wanted less of the mill worker strike and more of Vivian's story and the Honora/McDermott relationship.
Didn't love the ending.
The characters just came alive, and I wanted more, hard to put down.
During 1929 and 1930 stock market crash and the onset of strikes and unions set the stage for this book.
It is a look at a handful of people anyhow these events effected them.
The mills were especially bad at conditions, pay, and child labor.
Violence would break out against the strikers, as if starving and no place to live was not enough.
Very well written and touching as well.
It is set on the North coast, but it could have been anywhere USA, where greed trumps people's lives.
This book is a masterpiece. Beautiful writing, deeply felt characters, very moving plot. At first it was slow-going as many characters are introduced individually. However, when they all interact, it is magical. Will be one of my favorites.
The emotionally and financially needy wife of a conman gets comfort from a wealthy neighbor woman at her beach house during the Depression. Interesting characters and beautiful beach descriptions.
I liked this book, I found it very insightful. RIP Anita Shreve.
This was baaaaddddd and ssaaaaadddddd
Set in New Hampshire during the troubled years of 1929/30, Sea Glass is about the coming together of a motley collection of people in troubled times.
She collects pieces of sea glass from the beach - ones that have been worn smooth from their time in the ocean, but...more The heroine of this book, Honora, is a wonderful character.
She collects pieces of sea glass from the beach - ones that have been worn smooth from their time in the ocean, but that have become so strong they never break, and that glass becomes the metaphor for Honora in the maelstrom of the times.
Lena Wright2-29-12P.1 A summer beach house, a summer romance that turns into a marriage, the whole summer of school. Who doesn’t dream of these things? But things don’t always turn put the way were dream of them happening. “Sea Glass,” by Anita Shreve tells the story of a five very different people, from very different back rounds, all brought together in the most intricate ways, beautifully described in this book. From driving their Buick, to days spent on the beach searching for sea glass, Sex
But things don’t always turn put the way were dream of them happening.
From driving their Buick, to days spent on the beach searching for sea glass, Sexton and Honora started off strong, but as Sextons jobs and loans for the house slowly degraded, it put stress on their marriage.
As Honora’s and Vivian’s friendship grew, they discovered how much alike they are, and their marriages, after Honora introduced her to searching for sea glass.
In the end, Honora and Sexton, Vivian and McDermott and even Alphonse made it through their struggles.
