https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33609.Katherine
I've come for you, Katrine  This whole, magnificent epic is based on a true story. Either Katherine Swynford, her beloved John of Gaunt, or both (because she gave him 4 - 4 - kids as his mistress), gave rise to the royal lines that include Kings Henry IV, V, VI & VII, Richard III, Edward IV, a Queen of Scots, every sovereign of Scotland since ages ago (sorry, my google is down or I'd sound way smarter right now) and every sovereign of England in the last 400 years. Meanwhile, my branch of o
Either Katherine Swynford, her beloved John of Gaunt, or both (because she gave him 4 - 4 - kids as his mistress), gave rise to the royal lines that include Kings Henry IV, V, VI & VII, Richard III, Edward IV, a Queen of Scots, every sovereign of Scotland since ages ago (sorry, my google is down or I'd sound way smarter right now) and every sovereign of England in the last 400 years.
Like, it's not the kind of romance where it's all about the couple, all the time, and I start to get pissy if they're apart for too much of the book.
This book is both a spiritual coming of age tale and a hauntingly-beautiful love story.
Katherine is based on the true story of Katherine Swynford and John of Gaunt from 14th Century England.
John has moments of arrogance, but is also capable of tender acts of sweetness — He should join Rhett Butler and Mr. Darcy on the list of sexiest men in literature.The couple's relationship develops slowly over the first half of the book, but the payoff is well worth the wait.
If you're anything like me, you're going to want to rush out and find out the true story behind it when you're done because you just can't let it go.
It's based on the true story of the 14th-century love affair between Katherine de Roet and John of Gaunt, the Duke of Lancaster.As a young woman, Katherine was a reputed beauty but had few prospects, so she married the brutal Sir Hugh Swynford and had two children.
By chance, her marriage put her in the path of the Duke, who was struck by her beauty.
After Hugh died, Katherine and the Duke stole away and had their long anticipated love affair.While the plot sounds simple, the time and setting were not.
"You'll LOVE it." And she was right.
This story of lusty Katherine the Flemish wench, sister-in-law of Chaucer and lover of a Royal Duke, wife of a stunningly boring man who just ups and dies (most handily) one day, and mother of something like six or seven kids (now doesn't that make your baby-maker sore just thinkin' about it?) was about as close to one-handed reading for girls as things got in 1954.Not being a girl, I had a few problems with it.
While her older sister Phillipa gained a position in the royal court, Katherine through her beauty and charm, beguiled the powerful nobleman John of Gaunt Duke of Lancaster, father of Henry IV, and ancestor of most of today's royal family, through his eventual marriage to Katherine, his long time paramour.Katherine is first pressured into marriage to the boorish and brutish knight, Hugh Swynford.
After the deaths of Blanche and Hugh, so begins the passionate liaison between the flame haired beauty Katherine, and the charismatic Duke of Lancaster and player in the power of England's politics of the time.
Seton even captures the smells as well as the customs of the times and I felt like I had jumped into the pages and was on this journey with Katherine.I don't share Katherine's love for John of Gaunt (view spoiler)[given, if this part of Seton's account is correct, he took little to no interest in his children with Katherine for at least a decade (hide spoiler)] but wow.
Solid, engaging historical fiction about the mistress of John of Gaunt who was the ancestress of the Tudors.
Rich with period detail.
The part that makes me knock the rating down is the horrible passage wherein Katherine becomes a guilt-ridden Christian who repudiates her own happiness.
It was such a jarring disconnect and so typical of everything I loathe about Christianity that it spoiled the book for me.
Now I wonder about the accuracy of this passage.
Luckily, Alison Weir has just come out with a book about Katherine which may answer my question.
Finished: The last 100 pages or so I was thinking - stop with the crap about the customs of medieval times and just let me know what is going to happen to the main characters!
Katherine has gotten off her high pedestal.Quick changes here - I am on page 410 and, yup I do like it again.
It takes place during the 100 Years War. Reading it feels simply like reading a fun novel - and you are leaning at the same time.
It is overall a meticulously researched and well-written historical romance set in 14th century England about Katherine Swynford, the third wife of John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster.The first half of the book is dedicated to describing the romantic love that develops in a tortuous way between the two protagonists.
Katherine is initially married off against her wish to a brutish husband, whose faults include poverty that results from mismanagement of his estates.
The bits about John’s childhood bête noire and his squire’s murder of Katherine’s husband are contrived.The second half is much better and more realistic and the pace is quicker.
I was completely invested in Katherine and John of Gaunt as historical characters and as individual people.
It took quite a lot to survive in the sphere of the royal house in the 1300s and it is fascinating that these two persons so far down in the line of succession would be the grandfather and grandmother of a bevy of future kings and queens, including the Tutors.It has been a long time since I have stayed up until 2:00 in the morning because I could not wait until the next day to finish a novel.
I hope they did experience a love that transcended common understanding.
Anya wrote historical romances based on factual history, and her extensive research for her novels is usually noted in any of her bios.
This book is based on the lives of Katherine and John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster.
This is trivia and not part of the book, and it is probably not interesting to anyone but me, however it shows that these are people that actually lived: Katherine is the grandmother to Queen Isabella (married to King Ferdinand who made Columbus's voyages possible) of Spain.
Isabella named her daughter Katherine after her own grandmother.
I think I like historical fiction better than historical romance...Overall I enjoyed this story of Katherine and the fate of her relationship with the Duke of Lancaster.
For a “classic” this was a fairly easy read, even if it was a bit overly descriptive.
I enjoyed reading about characters based on real people, but somehow I never felt an emotional attachment to them.
I felt it could have been a couple hundred pages less.
With this being the second Anya Seton book I’ve read I’m thinking her style is just not my cup of tea.
John saves Katherine from rape in a moment of kindness, but nothing can stop her marriage to the clumsy and sometimes brutal Sir Hugh Swynford.
Their romance was the scandal of the Middle Ages, as for the next ten years he kept her as his beloved mistress and doted on their four illegitimate children - until Katherine unexpectedly broke with him.
The book's end may seem like a fairytale when John and Katherine reconcile in middle age, but it is all true to history.
Katherine sees this merely in terms of “he doesn’t love me any more because we don’t spend as much time together!”, whilst, when we do get inside John’s head, his hardline tactics with the populace are explained as “there was this boy once who told me I was a changeling and I must prove myself to everyone!” Really?!
Like any cheesy romance, John of Gaunt’s childhood boo-boo puts him into Punish Everyone mode, which creates a Big Misunderstanding and leads Katherine to think he doesn’t love her anymore.
If you suspend a string in water saturated with salt or sugar, a beautiful crystal will gradually grow on it.
The string is the love story that runs throughout the novel.
The crystal is the meticulous detail that Anya Seaton has used to embellish that love story.Katherine is a beautiful young commoner.
(And it is based on a true story!)Katherine herself was a complex character.
In other words, Katherine was very human.In the end, Seton’s attention to detail and the realism of her characters result in a story that is so much more than just another historical romance novel.
I cursed the injustice of life in the 1300's and moaned and whined my way through...all the while muttering complaints about my own poor lot in reading life at the moment.While things picked up quickly thereafter and I fell in love along with Katherine I was still cursing the injustice.
This book is based on a true story and written in the 1950's when little evidence was available about the people in it.
This book is certainly the best historical-fiction love story I've ever read!
Okay fine it's the only one I've read but I'm pretty sure I've set myself up for disappointment from here on out with Historical-Fiction love stories.
Here's the thing about historical fiction: we already know what happened.So the wiles of plot are nullified.
We may know what happens but the author can sprinkle the story with good prose and keen insights to keep us reading.
Unfortunately, most historical fiction authors try to echo the language spoken in days of yore.
Have you come to ravish me?"If the plot is useless and the writing questionable, is there any other reason to read historical fiction?
Yet in Katherine Anya Seton writes her fiction much like nonfiction.
True stories are rarely packaged like fiction.
This is probably one of the best books I have read in about a year.
And that's saying something.One of the biggest things going for the book is John of Gaunt, Katherine's love interest.
The best part is that John was a real person!
This book takes you through Katherine's adventurous life.
She starts off as a naive 15 year old from a convent and by the end of the book, her posterity is well on its way of becoming the future royalty of England.
I realized that it is the same of that from "A Knight's Tale," and reading about Chaucer and other historical figures made this book all the better.
Perhaps my favorite book in the whole world! Anyone who loves historical fiction, but has not read it, should immediately buy the 50th anniversary edition.
A gull mewed again outside the fortress, the fresh tang of the sea crept through the windows to mingle with the warmth of jasmine.”He raised his head from her breast and they looked without fear or striving but quietly; deep into each other’s eyes.”Still, it’s a grand operatic interpretation of the relationship between the Duke of Lancaster and the mere daughter of a lately knighted “commoner.” Katherine is given quite a complex character; she’s torn between religious correctness and the true love she feels for John.
Do you miss Game of Thrones? Here is some very good romantic historical-fiction.
Harrowing story of Katherine Swynford and John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster, the ancestors of most of the British royal family. Set in 14th century of Chaucer and the Black Death.
"Katherine" is slightly dated in its storytelling style and it is noticeable that the novel is 60 years old.In this same vein, the plot in"Katherine" is slow-moving with an event occurring and the characters thinking about them or discussing these events for quite some time before moving on.
This seems to be common in many older novels so perhaps editors weren't as abrasive back then."Katherine" is a lovely book in terms of writing but the story is slow in pace and Katherine doesn't come alive as a character or figure.
I find it hard to put down on paper just how much I love this novel and how much it means to me.I discovered many of what were to become my favourite books in the last year of middle school/early years of high school.
Among this list I include Wuthering Heights, Pride and Prejudice...and Katherine.Anya Seton was a very talented writer, and this novel is her masterpiece.
You can see why Katherine was attracted to John, but Anya Seton does not whitewash over his faults either.
I specialised in the Medieval era at university and while I can now see deeper into the background of the novel, it has not affected my affection for this novel.I find Katherine a compelling read.
When I started reading this book, my husband looked at the cover and asked if I'd picked it to read based on that alone.
I said no, as I'd had no idea what the cover would be when I went to pick it up.
But it is a nice piece of synchronicity.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Probably Seton's best book. I read it in my teens so re-reading now was almost like a first read and I saw the flaws more and the historical errors. However, it was a fabulous read even if it did contain quite a lot of flights of fancy about Katherine - and certainly it was a big improvement om Alison Weir's 'straight' history of Katherine Swynford - a pretty thin subject for a serious biography and (as usual) Weir did not please me.
I may be the only reader out there who does not care for this book.
While the historical details are rich, it was the title character of Katherine (mistress and later wife to John of Gaunt) that kept me from loving this novel.
Katherine is painted as such a goody-two-shoes that it's nearly impossible to identify with her in any way.
Her thoughts are all pure, her actions impeccably motivated and it just rings.....well, untrue.
So I'm pretty "meh" about this book, although Seton's writing is in all other respects so good that I will be reading the rest of her novels.
It is not surprising to me that Anya Seton, a truly gifted and thorough (referring to her research and historic detail) received the most acclaim of her career in this accounting of the life of Katherine Swynford.
Not just a tale for the avid reader of British historical fiction, this would also be suitable for someone who has not tried this genre.
While the information is general it is specific to Anya Seton and the prolific Georgette Heyer and to historic fiction and will be an interesting way to begin.
I am grateful for Anya Seton’s other writings as I feel a bit downcast at finishing this book - always to me, the hallmark of an excellent read!
The characters are well-imagined and vividly drawn.
And the telling takes what information is available about Katherine's life (not much) and spins it out into a lush and moving narrative that also incorporates political and social events that certainly are more well-documented than Katherine's life.Seton's research is in-depth, though there are (as always with contemporary sources) conflicting historical reports of both Katherine Swynford and John of Gaunt.
Seton chooses to use sources more sympathetic to both of her main characters and to discount those that are hostile (such as Froissart, who is a much-cited source of information about Katherine and John, hence their generally bad reputation among modern scholars).
Unfortunately, this book didn't quite live up to its 5 star (!) rating on Amazon.
It's the story of Katherine Swynford and John of Gaunt, a famous couple from 14th century England.
Their well-documented affair spans many decades to the point when they finally marry, despite British convention, late in their lives.Katherine was written in 1954, and the language has an old-timey feel to it.
The story drags in certain points and the book is quite long.
These things made the plot lose its impact to me, although certain parts were quite entertaining and overall this is a fairly good story.
