https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/254349.God_Is_Red
He confuses concepts, refuses to define his terms, and resorts to outlandish fad science from the '70s to back up claims that perhaps the world is different than Western mainstream thought interprets it (ancient astronauts??
or else that contrast doesn't make sense.He does make some excellent and quite incisive points about modern American culture and our relationship to the environment, but those good points are sparse among silly insults, willfully flimsy analysis, and even outright falsehoods (i.e. the Ancient Egyptians didn't care about immortality, that's just a modern Western interpretation...huh?)This book has been a to-read for a while, and boy am I glad that's over with.
I really was amazed with the things Vine Deloria Jr. can tell you that you never thought to ask. His writing is a strong call to the kind of self-analysis that helps white Americans to grow up, examine their values, and shamed-faced ask the questions that have never occurred to them before. I feel like I could listen to these thoughts for the rest of my life on loop and only be the better for it.
He argues that Native American religious belief is based on a strong connection to place, while many other belief systems emphasize history (especially Christianity, but he also mentions many other major religions).
He argues that this greatly affects the ethical and moral behavior of the believers; Native American beliefs are more directed towards community, place, and current needs, while the rest of us are more directed towards moral codes that we usually don't feel a need to follow very closely.
He believes that a return by Native Americans to their indigenous belief systems will help bring communities back together and work to heal some problems.
You may say that I'm inculcated with Western views of scientific truth, and you'd be right, but this whole section hacked a star off the book all by itself because it's total nonsense.Another one is how Deloria talks about tribal religions being designed for a particular people inhabiting a particular place, and not having the kind of universal claims that Christianity does, but then he treats them as some kind of block group with universal characteristics set up in contrast to Christianity.
I started reading this book while taking a comparative religions class.
Deloria attacks this type of thinking and shows how academic religious studies have primarily been conducted with a bias towards Western religions.The book also explores the strong relationship Natives Americans have with the geography in which they have lived, as well as the plant and animal kingdom they encounter.
Also, unlike Western religions, those of the Native Americas lack theological dogma.
I don't think this book would be an enjoyable read for anyone who follows a strong Christian belief system.
For one thing, the Native Americans didn't have a personal God in the same sense as the Christians, nor did they believe that they needed a personal savior.
The Great Spirit, in placing men on earth, desired them to take good care of the ground and to do each other no harm."When Young Spirit said that the trees talk to him, he meant just that, for Walking Buffalo remarked, "Did you know that trees talk?
But I have learned a lot from trees; sometimes about the weather, sometimes, about animals, sometimes about the Great Spirit."Vine Deloria believes that white man has become alienated from nature and believes he must tame it.
At the same time, he tries to cover so many topics that I never felt as though anything (except the points I will mention in the next paragraph) was really explored in-depth.
While I understand why he would want to believe those theories, it was bizarre and out of place in this book to read 10 pages of Deloria defending Velikovsky's hypothesis and another dozen pages defending ancient astronauts as things that totally happened and through which we should all view the development of religions.
These strange arguments cheapened the genuinely excellent points that Deloria made elsewhere in the book.
Deloria encourages critical dialogue with thought provoking alternative theories to many timely religious topics and debates which are more relevant today than ever.
Honest self reflection is never easy, but for those wanting to delve deeper into sources of impetus to religion, Deloria encourages critical assessment of historical occurrences as they relate to religious expression.
In seeking an ultimate answer to meaning of existence, that is, in reading God's mind as early scientists described their work, modern society has foreclosed the possibility if experiencing life in favor of explaining it.
Pretty intense book to read and then to watch THE SNOWBOWL EFFECT - a documentary about what's going on at the Snowbowl, a ski resort in the San Francisco Peaks just outside of Flagstaff.
(Basically, Humphry's Peak is the central altar for the Hopi and a sacred place for 13 tribes in the Southwest.
The Snowbowl wants to use reclaimed wastewater to make snow there for skiing.
Very long story, but if you try to understand the Indigenous worldview, the move by the US Gov't and the Snowbowl is a huge blow to native culture).OK, the book.
Deloria drives it home that Western Culture is basically secularized Christianity.
In a world where we are told that we need to listen to the shrill, self-serving tripe of "Creationists" demanding that we teach "Intelligent Design", this book presents, what may be fundamentally similar views and somehow manages to not sound willfully obstructionist.
It is a demand for equal time, long overdue, in the serious arena of mutual religious respect that the world will need to muster if we are all going to survive.
For indigenous people, not just American Indians, it's a religious imperative who's origins predate ALL written records.
Deloria gives a thorough, and often humourous, attack on American Christianity.
His analysis of the problem -- separation from the land.
Whereas Christianity may have made sense in a Near Eastern landscape, it has escaped its land and its ethnicity.In response Deloria offers the spiritual practices of Native American religion, which remains rooted in the land.I only gave the book two stars for two reasons.
He thinks that liberal Christian reading of these events as non-historical and metaphorical is part of Christianities problem.
But mainly he doesn't, to my mind, give enough of a positive presentation of Native American religion, spending the bulk of his time on the attack.
I wish I had read the first edition of this book, instead of the revised 30th anniversary edition.
However, it read much more as an criticism of Christianity, which is fine, except that was not the book I was hoping for.
Because must of the commentary examining Christianity concerned recent events, I am curious if the earlier editions focus more on Native American religion.
I would not hesitate to pick up an earlier edition of this book to see if it more adequately meets my expectations, but I did find this particular edition a disappointment.
Vine Deloria Jr. does for spirituality and responsibility to the earth and community with God is Red, what he did for history and perception of policies in Custer Died For Your Sins he sets it straight. He offers an interesting missing piece and alternative history for all that seek to find the truth.
I really was expecting to hear the native view of God with stories from the various tribes. Instead it seemed to be an attack on Christian religions, and while I think there's a lot to be criticized about the way Christian religions are run, I could read that in any number of other books. I wanted a NATIVE view. I probably should have give this 1 star.
Honestly, read allison's earlier review below. She said everything I would say, but more eloquently than I could. While I feel this is an important subject, circular and flawed logic is not the best way to examine it.
This was the first step on the path to becoming a multinational religion, the one and only absolute truth for everyone, in every place, for all eternity.Over time, the Jesus movement expanded into other regions.
The collapse of the Empire created a power vacuum that was taken over by the Church, which proceeded to expand its domain and accumulate enormous wealth and power.True believers waited for the return of the Messiah for years, then decades, then centuries.
That is when the invaders of the North American continent will finally discover that for this land, God is red.”YouTube has a number of Deloria videos.
Finally finished (skimmed through the last 100 pages), not as impressed as I thought I would be. Some of the sentiments, of course, were beautiful and real, and I appreciate this book for saying all of that. But there were elements that were so far above my head I felt on a completely different level, and there were also elements so over-simplified I felt more intelligent than the target audience. I think this is why I don't read nonfiction very often.
Deloria often draws conclusions or makes comparisons that I wouldn't, and I often felt that he's doing more comparing to Christianity than explaining Native American religion, but I guess that's important in order for a reader like me to be able to see the difference in paradigm.
I think Deloria's goal isn't so much to explain what we think of as "religion" - for Christians (many) and for non-religious American folks (nearly all), religion is one little piece of ourselves/our lives.
But even Christianity has roots - roots that Deloria goes into - and these are just as valid as the roots of Native American tribal relgions and I don't think they're based on ancient astronauts.
Angry and polemical. Deloria has some painfully valid points, but he throws the baby out with the bath water along with the tub, shampoo and shower curtain. In relegating all but native religion to a nightmarish Oral Roberts/Jerry Falwell bogeyman of conservative evangelicalism, he damns his own thesis which, ostensibly, calls for respect and mutual flexibility. I don't deny the horrors that American Christianity has brought upon the First Peoples, but I do resent Deloria's assumption that Christianity is merely the sum of its worst adherents.
Don't fooled by the title. This book is only about the litagation the 652 federally recognized tribes have used to obtain the rights they deserve. Litagation that is still in the process in some cases. If you are a law student, Native American (American Indian) Studies Major, or highly political, you should read this book.
Short review: Oftentimes fascinating explanation of Native American spirituality/culture, but compare-contrasts with Christianity frequently become unnecessarily snarky and condescending of "the other side." Half enthralling, half aggravating book.
What a refreshing view! I'm going to reread this once I've finished because it has given me so many things to reflect upon.If your theology could stand a review/renewal, try reading Deloria's GOD IS RED.
This book really changed my missiology. Deloria's work (primarily this book and Custer Died for your Sins) allowed a look at my own white, western, Amer-European culture, especially as it related to how my own belief system is perceived by the oppressed.
God Is Red: A Native View of Religion by Vine Deloria Jr. (1994)
Heartfelt, truthful, thought provoking and in Vine's glorious way..........frank
I was so disappointed with this novel. What I had hoped was a thorough perspective of Native American religion was more of a political platform for the author.
You just have to read it and engage every idea that is presented. You may agree or not agree with his writings but you have to admit that this is coming from a very intelligent place. Great book.
Deloria's straightforward analysis and assault of American institutions in that book, referencing historical and cultural genocide and blatant racist treatment of indigenous people, was an account that completely floored me.God is Red is another such book that puts American institutions on blast and demands that the American people own up to past atrocities that they themselves have committed under the instruction and approval of the Christian church.
Additionally, I found some of Deloria's reasoning and research a bit suspect in some places, as he cited older scientific evidence or jumped to conclusions about Christian history without really explaining what he was saying.As an atheist, I approach any spiritual beliefs with skepticism and cynicism to begin with, and even Deloria's account of tribal beliefs is no different.
Y también una buena base para formar parte de una verdadera espiritualidad, justo habla que el cristianismo no se basa en experiencias religiosas sino en seguir las reglas y que es una religión bastante vacía porque se debe amoldar a las sociedades a las que llega pero lo hace con mucho éxito porque refuerza la ética y las prohibiciones de la sociedad a la que se integra y es un culto que promueve al individuo.
Vine Deloria Jr.’s work is incredible.
I’ve been waiting for our nation to return to its believe in nature and land; a critical idea in native tribal religions.
It is astonishing how many native ideologies are/were correct and accurate - such as the communication between plants and the depictions of the changes in earth rotations.
I believe Vine Deloria Jr. does an incredibly job of depicting the historical revolution and impact of Christianity on our nation, the main ideologies of tribal religions, and how our country became as segregated in ideology as it is today.
