https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/534499.Wanderlust
A sufficiently talented writer probably could do a novel all from the point of view of the main story's comic relief character and have it not be irritating.
I enjoy revising the world of Krynn. In this book Tanis and Flint meet Tas for the first time and it becomes a mess for Flint who was trying to give a bracelet he made to a customer, Selena a sea elf. Tas has this knack for "borrowing" things or not realizing he has put things in his bag. I enjoyed this book and Tas does bring some comic relief to the series.
This bracelet ends up being magical and next thing you know we are off on an adventure.Before I started reading this I had a feeling I would give this a high rating because of Tas. He has been a favorite of mine since I read the original trilogy way back when.
The adventure wasn't the true story line in this book as the true story line is the beginning of a friendship between these three companions and this is done perfectly.You don't have to be a fan of Dragonlance or have read the original trilogy to enjoy this book.
Introducing Tasslehoff Burrfoot.
In my opinion Tas, the Kender, is probably the best addition to the companions.
If not tge best, then certainly the most interesting.
The curious Kender.
Enough about Kender.
I enjoyed this book for its further character development and for the exploration of lore, Elven lore, including Sea Elf lore, Dwarven lore, and of course, Kender lore.
It interests me how each society developed, their history, culture etc.
Another thing that I enjoyed, was a couple of plot twists.
Plot twists that changed the story from a normal rescue mission, to a far more challenging one.
Simpática e intrascendente novela basada en tres de los personajes principales de la saga; Tanis, Flint y Tas.Estas sagas menores intentan, con más o menos éxito, relatar aventuras relacionadas o no con la trama principal en un intento por prolongar el universo Dragonlance.En este caso los personajes no se ven demasiado desdibujados, pero lo cierto es que la historia es intrascendente y completamente ajena al resto de la saga.Para pasar el rato sin más
This isn't a great fantasy novel, with a plot that feels familiar and some clunky dialogue. What makes it work is the presence of Tasslehoff Burrfoot, one of the best fantasy characters ever, who injects energy into every scene in which he appears. He makes up for a lot of the books shortcomings.
Meh. Kind of boring till the last sixty pages. Some of the established characters are well-written, but while this book would have you believe it's about Tas, he only has slightly more page-time than a Chronicles installment. Too much time was spent droning on about side characters you never become invested in. A Meetings Sextet book called "Wanderlust" should've chronicled The kender's early adventures leading to his first meeting of the other companions. Instead, we got this mess.
In Wanderlust toont hij enorm veel intelligentie, vooral als speurder voor vallen, verborgen gangen, en meer (zie laatste deel van het boek).
Centraal draait het om een toekomstvoorspellende armband, voor de troonopvolger van de Dargonesti elven, ofte de zee-elven.
En zo trekken de 3 (Tas, Flint en Tanis) samen met Selena (die de armband liet maken) op avontuur.
Soms komt het verhaal wat kinderachtig/simplistisch over, maar algemeen gezien is het zeker de moeite waard om te weten hoe Tas bij Tanis en Flint is verzeild geraakt en hoe de groep beetje bij beetje uitbreidt per boek.
I have always loved Tasslehoff Burrfoot, and this is, by far, my favorite book starring him.This book is not part of the original series, so I read it expecting the characters to be "off" from their original appearances.
Mary Kirchoff did an amazing job portraying the characters correctly, even with the scenes where Tas and Flint were arguing.Otherwise, the book moves along at a relaxed pace, and the entire plot seems to revolve around things happening purely by chance.
That is normally fine, but the transitions did not feel smooth to me, so I would pause in my reading.Otherwise, it's a great tale and one of the few "must-reads" for the Dragonlance series.
Tas. Do I need to say more?For those who answer "yes": Tasslehof "Tas" Burrfoot is one of my favorite characters from any book I've ever read, and he is the main one in this story, that is part of the Dragonlance Saga.
Of my three favorite characters in the saga, it features one - Tas. The Tas and Flint - scenes/dialogues are superb, love 'em - waiting for them saved me from being to bored by Tanis' and his oh-so-selfabsorbed tediousness and "perfectness".Looking forward to the next book in the series, that should feature also my other two favorites - Raistlin and Kitiara.
As always a book where tas the kender features is a great favourite but in this book even more so as tas is the protagonist and the hero!!
of all the characters that I have encountered whilst reading dragonlance I think my very favourite have always been the kender and if I had to emulate anyone its like a kender that I would like to be.
wanderlust was a big adventure full of magic, evil sorcerors, new characters like the sea elf and the fire winged characters which turned out to be so noble, a great read!!
The second book of this series deals with how Tanis and Flint met Tasslehoff Burrfoot. I don't really like kenders or dwarves so I couldn't bring myself to really love this book. The story is filled with good humor and the pacing is at a relaxed pace, but without any unnecessary filler details - just straight to the point plot lines. The story is a bit light and I think the book is meant to be something for light reading and laughs so don't take it as a serious fantasy story and you'll find yourself liking it.
Sadly, I did not care for this book at all.
Of course I liked Tanis, Flint, and Tas, but the rest of the characters weren't interesting to me whatsoever.
There were a lot of things that seemed to happen just by chance, so it was hard to get wrapped up in a believable story (even though it is obvious fantasy, you should still feel like there is a true plot, not just a bunch of random things that come together).
I'll have to take a break from the Meetings books after this because I can't handle any more butchering of my favorite series right now.
Okuduğum en iyi Ejderha Mızrağı kitaplarından biri. İşin içinde Tasslehoff olunca başka türlü olmasını da bekleyemezsiniz zaten. Yazar Mary Kirchoff tam bir kender profesörü. Bu da hikayeye ve Tasslehoff'un hareketlerine yansımış zaten.Minik kenderimizin Flint ve Tanis'le tanışmasına şahit olduğumuz bu kitap aynı zamanda çok da güzel bir macera sunuyor bizlere. Alın, okuyun. Kesinlikle pişman olmazsınız.
It was a really quirky book and I enjoyed reading it.My favorite character was Tas, who acted like he had attention-deficit disorder.The writing style didn't really appeal to me as did the actual story-line.I remember reading this book sometime last year going "No! I don't want to go anywhere today. I want to finish the book!" and my parents were screaming at me to hurry up so that they could go to the store.
A very competently written Dragonlance novel, unfortunately it spends so much of it's limited page space on every ancillary character other than Flint,Tas,and Tanis, I wondered if I had picked up a different novel by mistake. The story is good and moves along well and the authors do a serviceable job getting the companions voices correct I just would have liked more Tasselhoff and less tinker.
I read this years ago, I must have been in the 4th or 5th grade (28 now). I don't remember the details, but it left such an impression on me, it was what kicked off my love for reading novels.I grew quite attached to Flint and Tanis, eventually letting Tas in there as well. I stuck with the DragonLance books for a good length of time before I really branched into other genres.
I was surprised that this book held my interest because I have never been a big fan of Kenders. The story is pretty good. It relates the events whereby Tasslehoff Burrfoot joins Flint Fireforge and Tanis Half-Elven in their travels. Flint gets pretty frustrated and nearly kills Tas on many occasions (and rightfully so). Read this book if you enjoyed the Chronicles stories.
Karakterler Weiss ve Hickman'ın kitaplarındakinden çok farklı. Ejderha Mızrağı'ndan bağımsız bir yolculuk öyküsü olsaydı tatlı bir fantastik hikaye denebilirdi ama bu haliyle fazla yavan kalıyor. Olay örgüsü ve karakter derinliği çok basit.
See how much trouble a Kender can be and pick up this really great read! Tasslehoff can't help himself, this is when he meets Flint and Tanis and their lives are essentially bound by the little Kender.
About what I expected - a fun light, easy read.
this one was just a bore
El personaje de Tas (Tasseljofl) me encanta, siempre es agradable leer una de sus histórias
One of my favorite books from the series!
Among my favorites, and my first time meeting one of my favorite Heroes of the Lance!
Always thought the Kender were such a fun aspect to the Dragonlance world!
Reading this book because I liked the two main characters that were developed in the first book of the series. That held me more than the story line.
