https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/962568.Soledad_Brother
She appears toward the end of the book, no doubt as George writes to her following her hounding by old bonzo dog doo head Ronald Reagan, then governator of California and scourge of all things left-learning.
We read George's letters to his little brother -- the strange pride he feels when his brother scores with an older lady.
Worth a read for these things, and to really get a good gulp of the revolution as it existed in poor George's mind, and was envisaged at the time.
But it's generally an interesting book and well worth reading, I'd hazard.
An awesome read from the mind of an intelligent man who sadly got caught up into the system of violence and crime.
A man who grew up in the midst of racism and was convinced that all white people were evil and not to be trusted, and if white men in particular had the chance they would put all black men behind bars and throw away the key.
Great writings by a man who had demons that he never could exorcise and in the end, sadly it cost both his life, his younger brother's life and others as well.
A classic in its time, Soledad Brother is the autobiographical story of George Jackson who was arrested at 19 for stealing $70 at gunpoint from a gas station and sentenced to a one year to life in prison.
In prison, he became politically aware and read widely: Mao, Lenin, Marx and joined the Black Panther party.
This book talks about his self-education during years of solitary confinement and the injustice in the penal system heavily weighted against african-americans.
Having been attacked by neo-Nazis of the Aryan Nation in the Soledad Prison yard, he made an escape attempt and was killed by guards at 29 years old.
Truly touching and great read. For those who like to look between the lines and popular views.
i'm a rather big fan of george jackson.
i hate to say this, but it was very hard for me to get through his letters to his parents.
his views on women gave me a twitch by the time i was half way through.
he is after all in jail writing his parents and all in all he has a lot to be angry about.
so in a way the most offensive parts gave me a lot to think about.
george jackson was a sincere revolutionary and for that reason i think we should all read his writings and perspective.
I've had in on my to-read forever. What better time to finally dive in than when assigned a report based on Jackson's experiences in the California prisons.Jackson's eloquence, insight, and passion are apparent on every page. Every thoughtful penned word speaks volumes for what he experienced, what he saw, and what he was trying to communicate. And, that says a lot, when you know there must be worlds of words unsaid. And worlds of understanding lost between the lines.
Extremely powerful. This is a book that I think every American should read. It's an important piece of American history. Through the life of George Jackson, we see what true discipline and strength is. His words still ring in my ear as if he were speaking directly to me. Through George's letters we see what kind of struggle that Blacks had to deal with within the penal system and how a person can truly be a political prisoner.
An insightful portrait of a young, Black man during the last half of the 1960s. George Jackson's letters contain truth, hope, anger, love, bitterness - all the conflicting emotions a man in his situation knows. Though somewhat tainted my his displays of misogyny and condescension toward his mother, George Jackson's words are still valid today and should be read, specifically, by those interested in reforming the prison system.
The letters back and forth between George and his brother are a great snapshot of the period and the love of a brother for his sibling.
This book shows first hand the potential that resides in a human being to elevate beyond his upbringing & circumstances. George ended up being one of the most influential people during the movement.
This book changed my life. Thank you, Comrade George.
Soledad Brother was an insightful glimpse into the mind of George Jackson, a Black man in America who had varied experiences, all of which placed him outside of the norm.
By reading the book, which contained his letters to family and friends, readers can gain insight into experiences of which they have no knowledge.Throughout Soledad Brother, George Jackson repeatedly spoke about the racism that Blacks experienced in society, and inside of the prisons in which he was housed.
The letters in Soledad Brother reveal both the promise for intellect that exists for people who have been discarded by society, and the causes for resentment possessed by Blacks who have endured racism.
The contemporary U.S. imaginary of the prison system is deeply flawed.
The imaginary is one that envisions prisons as places of self-discovery, growth, thrift, and development.
He consistently excoriates those that wield institutional power, disavowing self-blame and the maelstrom of his family life he constantly attempts to mend.The astute political analysis pairs exquisitely with his personal drama.
Jackson writes of his political consciousness in response to his father's criticism, "You have misjudged the depth of my feelings on these matters.
They mean everything to me." Indeed, for Jackson the genre of analysis that people would dismiss as disinterested, clinical, or abstract comes to life.
Another compelling aspect was to see Jackson struggle with the conventionalities of his parents -- the cruelty of his letters to "you people" who keep sending those goddamned Christmas cards to a rebel maltheist; the tender hope that at some moments the people who have known you the longest finally understand you.
He meets Angela Davis, and you think he's learned his lesson now, but he ruins it by sexualizing her, fantasizing about protecting her, and pontificating to her with his political analysis.Pontification, in general, is a draw-back of the book.
Jackson has had time to think and books to read.
When blacks followed white bids for representation and equality with their own, like the Haitian Revolution following after the American and French Revolution, they were ruthlessly put down for following the obvious path of “do as I do” instead of “do as I say”.
Thus psychopaths in power won’t hear the voice of the people because they are in a position of “weakness”.
The Civil War and Reconstruction only changed black people from chattel to economic slaves and the sole reason is capitalism and George wanted it gone.
I like when George poetically mentions the American Flag as waving in its normal position - obstructing the sun.
Jackson's earlier letters to his parents swing starkly between the universal painful anguish of a young adult (in the vein of "No one understands me!
In his later letters to his lawyers and Angela Davis, Jackson becomes more focused and steadily dedicated to Maoist revolutionary ideas.
These letters are powerful in a different way from his earlier letters in that Jackson calls to attention the inseparable issues of capitalism, racism, and the broken and inhumane "justice" and prison systems.
Overall I found Jackson's letters to be worth reading as an early voice denouncing the state of the prison system and racism in the U.S. from the inside.
While incarcerated, Jackson became politically conscious and his letters to family and friends began to reflect his changing views on a world that he began to see as systemically racist and violence toward black men.
Through these letters, we see a man who is surrounded by racism, injustice (a rolling one year to life sentence for stealing $70?!) and brutality, and yet never allows his spirit to be dragged down with it.
Up until his untimely death at the age 29, he was uncompromising and unwilling to accept anything less than for total respect as a man.
I accept it, it’s beautiful.
This is a collection of letters written from prison by George Jackson, political prisoner for 10 years during the 60s era, before being murdered by prison guards in 1971.
The best of the book helps us to understand prison reality, particularly for a black male prisoner, and the nature of the racist prison system in the United States.But the book suffers from being very disjointed as any collection of letters would be, and there are long periods which are just everyday noticings and advice to his parents, which did very little for me.Overall the book is good, and there is a cogent analysis underlying all of Jackson's writing and which is developed in an essay or 2, but to be honest I found the backstory more compelling than the content of the book itself.
It's hard to get through his earlier letters to his family when he is just a sexist shit head.
But then, it's despairingly common for those discriminated against to turn around and just regurgitate the same garbage onto those they feel they can still hold power over.
And I doubt he ever thought his earlier letters would be published.
2/3rds through it turns into something readable with startling poignant and political letters from a man held as a political prisoner and murdered by prison guards when he was just 30 years old.
This is more a rambling collection of random thoughts than a review, I guess, but the book left me with some impressions that I wanted to share.As the title makes clear, these are letters George Jackson wrote from prison.
Or was the assailant such a rabid follower that he and other Family members took it upon themselves to punish her for not helping to acquire weapons for Jackson?Following the letters to Stender are a collection of letters to Joan (I can't recall now if her full name was mentioned), with whom he appears to have had a quasi-romantic relationship, as well as some written to the activist Angela Davis.
Super great book--George Jackson was far ahead of his time.
Coupled with the aforementioned, the perils of his blackness, incarceration, injustice, and downright bigotry help to shape this mans outlook on life, in which I find reality based.
George Jackson, was truly intellectual, and a very inspiring brother whom I regard as someone worthy of emulation because he was upright, independent, fearless, and outspoken.
Moreover, George Jackson, was a man that devalued deception, hypocrisy, bigotry, racism, and totalitarianism.
Reading and studying George Jackson, has helped me to grow into the socially,politically, and racially aware man I am today.

Welcome to the American Justice System.
What is created here?
Take a read.Now, go onto 'the other Wes Moore.' Ask the question, would George condemn the free Wes?
What cultural, economic set ups can prepare the human condition to thrive in a limited atmosphere?You think you have an answer.
Otherwise, you'd better remember the lessons of cultures past.
But, that won't stop some from dismissing it simply on the basis of race or a social reaction to being fair and reasonable.No words can change that person's mind.
And that is the tragedy.
The true tragedy of the human race.
"He listened while I scorned the diabolical dog - capitalism.
Didn't it raise pigs and murder Vietnamese?
Didn't it glut some and starve most of us?
Didn't it build housing projects that resemble prisons and luxury hotels and apartments that resemble the Hanging Gardens on the same street?
Didn't it build a hospital and then a bomb?
Didn't it erect a school and then open a whorehouse?
Build an airplane to sell a tranquilizer tablet?
For every church didn't it construct a prison?
For each new medical discovery didn't it produce as a by-product ten new biological warfare agents?"- George Jackson
As a book it drags somewhat in the middle with Jackson's early letters to his parents. Those are mostly repetitious and could have been trimmed somewhat. Obviously Jackson wasn't writing those with publication in mind though. Otherwise this is excellent. Jackson's political consciousness transforms and advances as the letters progress. This is especially noticeable in his attitude towards women. Read it, then go do as comrade Jackson did and read Lenin, Marx, Mao, Che, Giap, Uncle Ho, Nkrumah, Fanon and Malcolm X!!
Jackson boils down the "race issue" to a matter of capitalism, colonialism, and imperialism. He was, after all, a revolutionary Maoist, and his insights are as valuable as Malcolm X's but without NOI cult stuff. What prevents me from giving this a higher number of stars, however, is his naivete about the realities of communism as it was practiced in China and the Eastern Bloc. Also, his earlier sexism is off-putting, but that wanes in his last years as the influence of women, particularly Angela Davis and Fay Stender, becomes evident.
The opening intro: "In 1960, at the age of eighteen, George Jackson was accused of stealing $70 from a gas station in Los Angeles.
Though there was evidence of his innocence, his court-appointed lawyer maintained that because Jackson had a record (two instances of petty crime, he should plead guilty in exchange for a light sentence in the county jail).
Ten years later, still in prison, George L.
Jackson was gunned down in a prison yard.
Letters to other folks often tell you more than a work of non-fiction.
He was regarded as the next Malcolm X.
An early version of this book was good because it had an extensive chapter on reloading ammunition to save money when target practicing. More recent editions of the book bowdlerized this critical and informative section.If you like to read letters from some guy on Death Row, this is your book. Machiavelli's THE PRINCE or THE CONSOLATION OF PHILOSOPHY by Boethius are much better books, but SOLEDAD BROTHER is worth reading for insight into Jackson, a minor historical footnote.
http://www.historyisaweapon.com/defco...From Richard Wright to George Jackson, the blacks are stripping themselves of all the presbyterian and biblical rags: their voices are rawer, blacker, more accusing, more implacable, tearing away any reference to the cynical cheats of the religious establishment. Their voices are more singular, and singular too in what they seem to agree upon: to denounce the curse not of being black, but captive.
Soledad Brother was just okay I guess I had a different expectation for the book. It was Jackson's letters to family, friends and lawyers however not much detail was in the letters. Eventually he was murdered, so it's good the letters survived. The letters were written at a time when the a lot of events were volatile in the United States however we all survived. I gave this book a two, but will recommend it to family and friends.
