https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12987977-where-we-belong
More often than not I come across a book I really don't love.
I have read every single book Ms. Giffin has published and was especially excited for this book, because I received small taste in the back of one of her other recent books.
Normally, I completely shy away from books that take turns sharing the character's perspective, however Ms. Giffin pulls it off very nicely.
I have never liked the lets end the book when the reader knows the character is going to be okay and let the reader come to her on conclusions on the future.
This is the most appalling book I have read in a long time.
I read a lot of great reviews on amazon about it, but I had not understood this is the kind of author who apparently has a group of fervent fans who tend to review with exaggerated enthusiasm.
The moral side of the story is appalling, the characters are flat, the class-divide is stereotyping and shallow, the men are all strong and reassuring, the girls all die for a good dress, with the supposedly rebel girl who acknowledges that deep down she actually loves all the conventional things she was reacting against...
Especially reading this book after the exceptional 'Sharp objects' by Gillian Flynn - that's writing.
The novel starts out slowly (I was bored) and did little to make me care about Marion or Peter or their relationship and histories until, about 70 pages into the book, Kirby arrives.
Marion was a single girl, madly in love with Conrad when they were 18.
Kirby is the result of that love but Conrad never knew she had been conceived, and Marion knew nothing about Kirby, other than she had given birth to her, and relinquished her to be adopted at birth.
Kirby and Marion get to know each other, slowly.
We don't know how this story ends.
If not, her unfinished ending makes me think less of her as a writer.
I always feel like i walk away with something when i read her books.
I was really looking forward to her new book and then i read it.
it started out interesting - Marian lead a fascinating life in NYC as a producer of a popular tv show - she wants to marry her boyfriend, he is hesitant...then we meet Kirby.
I didn't feel like we really got to know this shallow woman - perhaps because half of the book was written from Kirby's point-of-view.
Such a disappointment to a book i was SO looking forward to...
I have been a fan of Giffin's writing because her prose evokes emotions and connection with the characters.
I'm not sure how I feel about this book, though.
I was most interested in how the main character, Marian, would interact with her teenage love.
This didn't happen until the last few pages of the book.
I had hoped to see where this relationship went.
The rest of the book was fleshed out nicely, I just felt that another 100 pages was needed to wrap up loose ends and see where the parent's relationship went in the present.
I was left feeling disappointed.
I do not read what is generally called "chick lit" (a term i find rather disconcerting) but wanted to give her books a chance.
I truly felt the story line was something a 9th grader could easily conceive of, and not something a successful author would bother to take the time to turn into a novel.
It is something to pass the time, and if you are a fan of this so called "chick lit" genre ( how does being a chick have anything to do with reading a mindless, insipid story?
I started reading this book, and wasn't enjoying the storyline as much as I had hoped I would.
Then, I heard about the scandal erupting online, with the author, her husband, her assistant, and a few brave reviewers who dared to be honest about their opinions on the book.
Sometimes we like a book, sometimes we don't, but each of us is completely entitled to express an opinion about what we've read).
And the next book that I picked up immediately grabbed my attention (Under the Never Sky) and I haven't been able to put it down since then!P.S. If you've missed all the drama, check out Corey Ann's website, who was in the middle of all of it: http://coreyann.me/?p=141.
I thoroughly enjoyed that book and it looks like she tried to create the same success by writing from two points of view again.However, she failed.Marion is incredibly unlikable and unrelatable.
I will be incredibly dissappointed if there is a sequel about a romance between Marion and Condrad.One other thing that I usually enjoy is the updates from characters from prior books thrown into her new books.
It's been a while since I've read a book by Emily Giffin and I have no idea why!Where We Belong was so freaking good!
I just fell in love with this book and for some reason it just felt perfectly written!
Now Marian, the Mom, has kept her daughter a secret from everyone.
I also really liked seeing Marian’s relationship with Conrad (baby daddy) which did end up breaking my heart a little bit.
AMAZING.The ending?
Maybe it's because I just happened to read such amazing books today but I'm in SUCH a good mood.
I need more books from Emily STAT!
I won this as an ARC from Goodreads and was so excited to read it.
Since you can easily look above to read the description of the book I'm going to skip over telling you all about it to get to what you want, the review.
I have been a fan of Giffin's work since her first book and have read all of them but her last release.
That is what makes Giffin's stories so interesting.
I loved the back story flashbacks, without it the book wouldn't have worked.
I really enjoyed seeing the same story line from the perspective of 2 people.
3.5 StarsA book about broken relationships being placed back together again.
Marian Caldwell is a hotshot TV producer living the life in NYC, when one night a knock on her door changes everything.
As the book progresses, we flash back and forth between past and present, alternating between the two voices chapter after chapter.
Lighter book, perfect for summer reading.
I listened on audio, and the narration was spot on!
I may have enjoyed this one a little more due to the audio.
I was pleasantly happy reading this one and found myself satisfied with the path the author took me down.
Where We Belong is a standalone, chick-lit novel written by author Emily Giffin.
I enjoyed the complexity of Kirby, I sympathized with the adoptive family and the suspense they undoubtedly endured during Kirby's personal journey, and I was entertained by the drama involving the biological parents.
I admire that Ms. Giffin (view spoiler)[did not give the biological parents a HEA in regards to the romance element.
However, I thought things turned out quite well for Kirby, as ultimately, this was her story and her journey.
If you think you may enjoy reading adoption through the eyes of a chick-lit writer, then add Where We Belong to your TBR list.
The one character I would've liked to know more about was Kirby's adoptive mother; her side of this story wasn't explored and I could only imagine the discomfort, pain, and worry she must have felt as Kirby sought out her birth parents.
To me, the story of Kirby's adoptive mother would have added a welcome layer of complexity and richness to the novel, and as a mother myself I felt the most for her character.
My criticisms could be particular to me and I should admit I had these same issues with SOMETHING BORROWED, the only other Giffin novel I've read - and I should note that Entertainment Weekly gave WHERE WE BELONG a glowing review.
That's not to say I don't think that upper class people don't deserve books about their lives and struggles, I do, it's just that I saw Giffin's talent and was hoping that someday she'd try her hand at writing a book with characters I could more easily relate to.I said all that to say this: Giffin fans rejoice, that day has come!
Marian opted to keep her address current with the adoption agency in case the child wanted to contact her someday, so she knew this day might come, but she's still unprepared for the emotions and awkwardness that happen when Kirby, not a child but a young woman, shows up at her apartment one night.
Prior to now, her work was lumped on that pastel-hued shelf of chick lit authors I'd pass up in favor of other (what I considered smarter) reads on the bookshelf.For what it's worth, I DID find myself getting sucked into the story: Marian, a 30-something NYC TV producer who has to deal with a knock on the door one night and the presence of a stranger who turns out to be her long-lost, 18-year-old daughter, Kirby.
There are a few (predictable enough) plot twists in the book that I don't want to say too much about, only that I became a BIG fan of Conrad.
Are you not reading this book because the author set her assistant and her fans on the negative reviewers? Don't worry; you're not missing much. The main adult character is another woman who has a high-powered job she doesn't much like and wants a real relationship (presumably like EG's other characters, she will quit her job as soon as she marries and has a child). There's the wrong man! Then there's the right man! Then there's no tension whatsoever.
The author used the word 'deadpan' or 'deadpanned' quite a lot, occasionally to mean 'saying something in a serious way when it's a joke', but often to just mean 'saying something in a serious way'.
3. The plot was a tiny bit predictable.
I knew from the START that Marian would ditch Mr. Nice Rich Eminently Suitable Match for Badboy Flame From the Past, and not just because this has begun to show up as a bit of a theme in Emily Giffin's books.
I don't mind a bit of predictability.
4. The ending was a bit up-in-the-air.
Snažno emotivna, topla životna priča u kojoj vjerujem svako može pronaći barem jednu situaciju koju je doživio, zapitao se da li je postupio dobro ili ne... Ovaj roman te odgovore nudi, jednostavno kakav život zapravo treba i biti, posebno ako ćemo se držati pravila da treba slušati samo svoje srce. Ako volite dobre porodične drame Gifin je napisala jednu savršenu, a od mene ide čista petica i velika preporuka.
I vowed no more after the last "someone cheated, was going to cheat, was forced to cheat" book, but as this one was not about cheating - I relented.It truly astounds me when authors make throwaway comments in their books that add no value or context, but offend part of the audience.
If you have to explain it and it will offend the people reading your book in an entire state, how about if you just say "loser" instead and leave it at that?Yet again, nothing original here and I agree with the reviewers who said a more satisfying ending was definitely needed.
Might be hovering somewhere around the 3.5 Mark… I enjoyed certain elements of the story but some of it didn't deliver. What is your favorite Emily Giffin book?
Even though her fifth novel, Heart of the Matter, is my favorite of her's, this is one story, I think everyone can love, and I think it is tied for first because they are such different stories.I started reading Emily Giffin's novels a year or so ago.
I found out earlier this year, Emily Giffin was working on a new novel, which would be titled Where We Belong.
I kept eyeing it on my bookshelf, with it staring at me, and me wondering if it would live up to my expectations of Emily Giffin.
It was okay for a light, quick read, but didn't really grab my attention.
Our main character, Kirby, has an adoptive family that (of course!) had a biological child right after she was born.
Bio Kid is just like the parents, leaving Kirby to wonder what her parents were like...
Bio Dad never knew that Marion was pregnant, and is excited to build a relationship with Kirby.It all just seemed a little Lifetime movie-ish to me, and I just didn't feel emotionally connected to any of the characters (particularly shallow Marion whom I actively disliked).
I picked this up because it was one of the finalists for the GoodReads best of the year books.
Every character was honorable and good and always made decisions that were in the best interest of everyone.
They had moments of jealousy (and a few other human emotions) but they quickly quashed those feelings for the good of everyone, which was both unrealistic and boring.
I was not impressed by the author's attempt to write from an 18-year-old girl's point of view and I was not impressed by the author's total lack of faith in her audience.
I have read all of Giffin's books except for Baby Proof and this was my favorite! Such a great storyline and characters you can't help but love. I highly recommend this one.
No Emily Giffin for me! http://coreyann.me/?p=141
The teenaged daughter has a new boyfriend of her own, a poised and sunny prep school boy with whom it's love at first sight and whose only flaw is his planned disappearance after graduation to college in the west.
In contrast to Giffin's books, check out early novels of Sarah Bird (The Boyfriend School) for a personality-filled dunk in 80s Austin with lots of well-loved name checks.
Those suckers are pretty bulky....Also, when our teenage heroine tries on picturing herself performing oral sex on her new and perfect boyfriend, was anyone else a little creeped out?On a good note, I thought her sensitivity to opening an adoption and using positive adoption language was well done--when she didn't, it was because characters weren't thinking in those terms.
I’m always a sucker for a story about adopted children, (not sure why) so the subject drew me in to start with.
And it was the reason probably why I kept reading even when at times I was finding myself annoyed with the characters and their behaviour.
I didn’t like Marian at all and found her juvenile in her outlook even after she was an adult.
So, yes, I liked parts of the story, didn’t like others or much of the behaviours and attitudes.
It was an easy read and others may respond better to the main characters than I did.
As I said I was prejudiced about the story, because the main theme in the book is the relationship between and adopted girl and her birth mother… but I also thought I more or less liked all previous novels from this author so, why not?And I was right, Emily has a way to get you into a story, and keep you there, whether you like it or not.It kept me on my toes from the start to the end.I also enjoyed the choice of writing style… you have one paragraph from the viewpoint of the mother, Marian, and the next from the viewpoint of the daughter, Kirby, and it works.
When you want to know more about Marian the narration brings you to Kirby and vice versa, so you basically can never put the book down.The only thing I am not sure about is the end.
I love Emily Giffin so much and this book was great!! I’m sad this is my last Emily Giffin book until she writes another one!
Marian never thought she would see her again, the daughter she gave up 18 years prior, from a pregnancy she kept secret from everyone, including the baby’s father.
In seeing them together, Marian sees the life she gave up, what could have been, and perhaps what could still be.Though much assured of Kirby and Marian’s developing relationship, the ending between Conrad and Marian left me wanting more.
All the characters in this book are likable, including Peter, Marian’s boss and boyfriend.
Also pick up other Emily Giffin books, they are so worth your time.
