https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/254089.Op_Center
Έστω και εμμέσως, αυτή αποτελεί την πρώτη μου επαφή με βιβλία του Τομ Κλάνσι (όχι όμως γενικά με τον Τομ Κλάνσι, μιας και όταν ήμουν Γυμνασιόπαιδο έπαιξα τα φοβερά Pandora Tomorrow και Chaos Theory της σειράς βιντεοπαιχνιδιών Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell).Λοιπόν, οπωσδήποτε πρόκειται για Αμερικανιά, αλλά κατά τ'άλλα έχουμε να κάνουμε με ένα αρκετά συναρπαστικό θρίλερ, γεμάτο πολύ ενδιαφέρουσες λεπτομέρειες από τον τρόπο λειτουργίας των διαφόρων Αμερικάνικων κυβερνητικών υπηρεσιών σε καταστάσεις επικίνδυνες και κρίσιμες για το μέλλον του κόσμου.
Γενικά πρόκειται για ένα δυνατό κατασκοπευτικό/στρατιωτικό θρίλερ που θα κρατήσει το ενδιαφέρον του αναγνώστη από την αρχή μέχρι το τέλος.
Κρίμα που δεν έχουν μεταφραστεί άλλα βιβλία της σειράς.
It's a decent book with plenty of action and thrill...I just don't like Tom Clancy's style.
It doesn't help the story progress and it certainly isn't fun to read unless you are a firearms aficionado...which I'm not.
I respect the research that goes in to something like that but it just isn't necessary.
They get the job done as far as plot progression and there are times that you find yourself rooting or booing them but on a whole, they just don't have the depth they need to be truly memorable.
Good for reading on the bus during rush hour...not at home in your spare time.
War is a crime foisted on us by the Hawks of the world. This book of fiction is about a crisis management team led by a man who has a part of his soul devoured by the stress and pressing crisis of the Korean Peninsula. It is important to understand the magnitude of a Peninsula which technically is at war since 1950 filled with hatred,mistrust and darkness. Politicians,military and diplomats all figure in this quagmire of a drama which will leave you on the edge of your seats.A good read
Tim Lyons 9/24/18English H Period 8This is the evaluation of Paul Hood by a government official in the aftermath of the book Tom Clancy’s Op-Center by Jeff Rovin. Paul hood is the director in charge of the National Crisis Management Center, also known as Op-Center. The people of Op-Center were working towards solving the case behind a bomb and u I planted in Seoul during a festival and finding the perpetrators. It was discovered that the attacks were part of a plan to attempt to start a war betw
Op-Center under the leadership of Paul had discovered the terrorists plan and sent in soldiers of their response team to North Korea to stop the group behind it.
The agency is now evaluating Paul Hood for the details of what happened and some more personal psychological evaluation of Paul himself to see if anything may get in the way of his duties, like the health problems Q1: Who were the men behind this attack?A: They were all soldiers from South Korea, under the leadership of Major Lee, they were cunning and clever in their planning and managed to outrun us as long as they did.
Unrealistic
A terrorist attack in Seoul raises tensions on Korean peninsula with war looking likely, but a new federal crisis management team is task to figure out who and why before things escalate too far.
But the renegade squad is racing towards their next attacks—the North Korean barracks at the DMZ and Tokyo—and the only thing that can stop them is Op-Center’s paramilitary response team, Striker with Hood’s deputy General Mike Rodger along for the action.Set roughly around the time of book’s publication a little over 20 years ago, the plot reads almost like alternate history today but still holds up fairly well.
Decided I wanted to re-read the Op-Center series.
Previously enjoyed the balance of intrigue, espionage, and high-tech complexity.This time, the first volume in the series struck me as really dated.
One of the female associated characters (wife of Hood) is conveyed as family-absorbed and unable to grasp the robustness of her husband's life and responsibilities.
The other female secondary character seems hormone-absorbed (coworker of Hood).
Yuck.In addition, the tedious minutiae of weapon variety, vehicle description, and similar stuff is mind-numbing for me.
That's part of Clancy's narrative style that I had forgotten.Might read one or two more in the series.
I'm not going to rate this book. Let's call it the second worst book I ever read. Tom Clancey took a moderately good story and then surrounded it with loads of not very interesting detail and supposed facts that just were not true. YUK!
Good Read, However Not Like Jack Ryan SeriezThis is my first Op-Center book, as I enjoyed the read, i'm reminded how different take it is from the Jack Ryan series. Not to say that's bad but different.
Je n'ai jamais beaucoup apprécié les romans de Tom Clancy et celui-ci n'a pas fait exception à la règle...
I am totally hooked on this series. I loved the setting in Korea and the overall plot development. I couldn't put it down.
They are interesting times that we are living in and it was intriguing to go back and reread this book with everything happening in the world today and especially with the recent uptick in potential relations with North Korea (we can only hope they continue).
It goes without saying that some of the technology is out of date, but the relationships, politics, and trust (or distrust) play pivot roles in both the real world and we find out in the world of Op Center.
I would recommend this book even though it may be somewhat dated.
The story line itself is ok at best, but there is so much extra fluff added to the story that is not needed and not relevant whatsoever. ****SPOILERS****You can summarize the entire book in few words. The U.S. uses a pilot program, Op-Center, to figure out who is behind a bombing in South Korea. It appears the North is behind it, but everyone eventually figures out it's a team of South Korean soldiers that hope to start a war that will do away with talks of the two countries every getting along.
Once I got over the over detailed schematics of every military item in each scene the story ripped along quickly if a little American gung-ho for my like. The details stopped in later chapters (thank god!) and let the story happen. My first ever Tom Clancy book (where have I been!) and despite it being 20 years old it is quite pertinent now considering the current political issues in the Korean Peninsula. Here's hoping real life matches fiction in some facets !
Okuduğum en iyi Tom Clancy değil ama kendi tarzını yine aksettirerek askeri teknik detayları bolca kullanıp aksiyonu hep zirvede tutmuş. Kitabın çıktığı tarihte, 20 sene önce okumuş olsaydım belki 'vay canına' derdim ama benzer içerikte o kadar çok film izleyip kitap okuyunca gözlerimi devirmekten kendimi alamadım. Ama aksiyon iyi bak, o iyi.
Lots of fun reading a plot based on North and South Korea on the brink of war. It started off feeling a bit confusing with many characters and organizations being introduced, but once it got going it was interesting to see how the military, diplomats, and spys in North and South Korea and the US interacted and influenced what was happening. Reading this was like watching episodes of 24.
I've not read any Tom Clancy before and not read many thrillers of this type either, but recently I accepted a free copy of another book that was compared it to this series, so ...
Reading this today is interesting in light of recent foment around North Korea including weapons-testing and name-calling.
The basic story is decent in its intrigue and complexity with an acceptable number of red herrings and mis-directions.
The characters are just about as black and white as might be expected in a 20-something-year-old political thriller and some of the material is just as dated.
But overall, it still reads as interesting and somewhat topical.
Steady characters throughout, great story telling and writing, felt immersed even though the book is a bit dated, but the issues it brings up are still relevant some 20 years later. The ending felt rushed and disappointingly lacked detail. Ending was my least favorite part about the book.
Very real plot with North vs South Korea "almost at war" scenario with the Americans being apart of the action; nuclear missiles being in the frame as well. Other than the plot; the characters, the scenes, the dialogue, and prose make this book hard work. I found it a long tedious adventure.
Un discreto inizio per una serie di Tom Clancy. Non troppo complesso ma sufficientemente piacevole
Listed to this on CD, easy to listen too.
Amazing how old this book is and it still is relevant/relatable 23 years later. Sad actually. As usual TC doesn’t disappoint.
Really like the book. I think it is a really cool series. I like how the people in the story actually have lives outside of the center.
3.5
Ótimo livro sobre conspirações e espionagem.
Really like the detailed and thought out plot.
Good plot. The action kept moving and the middle didn’t sag.
Lots of boring verbosity in the 1st half. Seems like a thinly veiled poke at George Bush Sr (as a hawkish president). Story would have been cool back in '95 when written.
now i am hooked. This was such a great, easy and creative book. i was hooked after the first page. The characters were easy to fall in love with and follow, along with the story. the author made the mental visions so easy and vivid of the surroundings and the characters actions felt so real.i would highly recommend this author and this book.
For better or worse, though, as the book progressed we saw less and less of the North Korean conspirators, and in the end it seemed as if everyone was attempting to style it as a conspiracy among some South Korean separatists in which no northerners were involved--although one critical part of the plot could not possibly have worked without their insider in the North Korean military.On the other hand, the conspiratorial plot was ingenious, and the adaptations made on the fly almost worked, were it not for the effective efforts of the intelligence teams.
