https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46674.Feeling_Good
One day the psychologist told me that I needed to "deal with my feelings".
I asked him what exactly do people do when they "deal with their feelings".
No magic, you have to work, but you will get good results.One of the symptoms of depression is not seeing things as they are.
Since cognitive therapy works on learning to see things as how they are a person with severe depression might benefit from seeing a psychologist who specializes in cognitive therapy.
Such a therapist can help a person see around their blind spots whereas a book can not.
If you can love and respect yourself in failure, worlds of adventure and new experiences will open up before you, and your fears will vanish. It is an interesting statement on contemporary culture that practical, self-help books are often looked down on as lowbrow, unsophisticated, and unworthy of serious consideration. Just note how often in reviews of self-help books you come across the phrase, “I don’t normally read books like this,” or the like. Of course, skepticism regarding books of this
The distortions more or less boil down to the following: —Making negative assumptions, whether about the future or about what someone else is thinking;—Assuming that one’s emotions accurately reflect reality; —Over-generalizing a small number of negative occurrences into an inevitable trend; —Willfully ignoring all of the positives to focus solely on the negative; —Thinking in black and white categories;—Making unjustified “should” or “ought” statements about the world without considering other people's perspectives; —Feeling that you are responsible for things over which you have no control; —Labeling oneself and others with vague pejoratives.The first part of this book is dedicated to allowing the reader to recognize these types of thoughts and to combat them.
There are a lot of components to Feeling Good that still grated on the self-help misanthrope-hopeless-fuckface-jaded-dickhead that I usually am, and it's mostly in David Burns's overtly assertive and "it's-so-simple" prose styling.
Feeling Good takes pains to provide examples of where psychiatrists, psychotherapists, physicians, and everyone in between gets it wrong, and it's usually by enforcing silly methods like "keep telling yourself this" or it's a "chemical imbalance." In my depressions I felt a sort of comforting smugness to the confidence I had in my thoughts and feelings, the absolute certainty with which I could assert such and such was bad or such and such thing would not work out, and then very methodically explain why.
A therapist recommended this book to me. It is basically about how you choose your moods based on how you choose to respond to different situations and events. It really helped me to be in a better mood more often and be more positive about things. You must read this book with an open mind; there is no point if you are skeptical from the start. But it can definitely help you become a happier person.
Need to change your thinking?
Need to find your worth?This book doesn't do that for you.But it teaches you how to change your thinking so YOU can discover these things that were there all along.
But this book even shows you what to do when you don't even want to try anymore.
(However, if you feel this way, please seek counseling or help from more than just this book.)All we have as humans is the ability to think and perceive and this is exactly how we create the world around us.
I rarely, if ever, DNF a book, but I had to with this one because I was bored spitless. I got through 80 pages and realized I had only read 40 because the other 40 were just white space. It also didn't help that I've studied this stuff for years and it's not even a refresher. Moving on, pretending this never happened.
Instead I made notes at the end of the book citing each exercise and worksheet...and the page number.
This way I can go back in future and use them as and when I need them.The building blocks of the whole book (& CBT in general) are described in a table about cognitive distortions (view spoiler)[DAVID BURNS LIST OF DISTORTED THINKING...1.
EMOTIONAL REASONING: You assume that your negative emotions necessarily reflect the way things really are: "I feel it, therefore it must be true."8.
I also got a lot from the one where Burns describes his own experiences of using CBT on his own cognitive distortions.
کتاب خیلی خوبی در زمینه ی شناخت درمانیه. یعنی کتابی نیست که یک بار بخونید و کنار بگذارید و میتونید بهش باز هم مراجعه کنید و استفاده کنید. خصوصا در شرایط روحی بد باشید و خیلی به هم ریخته باشید گاهی استفاده از این کتاب میتونه آروم کننده باشه و از اوج احساسها و حال بد آدم کم کنه.
I wanted to enjoy and recommend this book, but I suspect they must have extensively rewritten the newer edition.
I don't see how any self-respecting person can get far being called "delusional" and "silly" among other things, over and over again.
The tone of this edition is just horrible, and the "blame the victim" mentality on top of the dismissal of often life-saving medications, forced me to just give up on this book before I was even through the first three or four chapters.As a former psych student, I know the theories contained in Cognitive Behavioral Therapy are legitimate and can be really helpful in recovery from many levels of depression, but you would never know it from this edition of this book.Again, I can't speak for the newest edition which is hot on the stands right now.

اگر از بعضی راهکارهاش که به نظر من کلیشه ای و غیرواقعی میومد بگذرم، توصیه میکنم قبل از رفتن سراغ روانشناس های رنگارنگ و هدر دادن وقت و پولتون، این کتاب رو بخونید.
Nobody "makes" you unhappy, you decide that on your own.
Most of the time, the information you use when deciding to feel depressed is based on false reasoning.
Therefore, a great deal of depression can be treated by thinking through your reasoning, identifying distortions, and correcting the misconception.
The exercize that the authors give again and again is to: 1) Write down what you are thinking.
3) Write down the distortion that is making you feel bad.
4) write down a corrected version.
5) Track how this makes you feel better.
While this information was great, I found the book to be a little tedious.
When you feel bad, you go to a doctor, doctor looks at you and gives you pills for fixing your hormonal apparatus (which is fine, I promise you).
You start taking pills, just for sleeping, then for overcoming depression, and then for something else and etc'.
This book is a self-help guide using cognitive behavioral therapy approach to fix your reason "twisted" thinking and conclusions, which then lead to various psychiatric disorders.
The book includes very good steps on how-to fix and solve your problems.
The most important is being positive about everything you do to solve your problem, and the book will help you.
I don't recommend you do this - read it all!Dr. Burns is a cognitive behavioral therapist who uses this book to teach you how to use your own thoughts to improve your moods.
By training you to recognize the distortions in your thoughts and, essentially, to "talk back" to them, Dr. Burns helps you help yourself feel better.This book is packed with a lot of information.
Personally, I find Dr. Burns's writing very accessible, although some chapters are so long that they get a little daunting.Dr. Burns provides a lot of tools in the book to help you improve your moods.
I highly recommend you give it a chance whenever you've been feeling blue for a while.
A pile of Seneca, a dollop of Zhuangzi, some good takedowns of Freud and Skinner, some 7th grade reading level and a lot of charts.
Feeling Good is exactly the self-help book one would imagine when reading the phrase "drug-semi skeptic psychiatrist with long history of clinical work writes highly structured, accessible cognitive therapy book for the lay audience." If that sounds a little less than utterly transformative, you're right; but if it sounds very workmanlike, kinda friendly and very functional, you're right too.
I credit this book with helping to save my life!
I'm sure I was at a point where I was ready to hear and put into action the advice in this book which made it easier for me to receive and incorporate the advice into my life.
But I think anybody would benefit from the advice and exercises in this book.
Our thoughts shape our perspective and there for shape our lives and our experiences.
Changing those negative thoughts that form and turning them into positive ones are the key to success.
For example, maybe you have this negative thought: "Everybody at my job hates me." Minimally, this is an example of mind reading, a form of jumping to conclusions but it could be and is likely connected to other cognitive distortions when you think about why you think this.
I have just started doing the exercises, but as a patient who has been depressed for years despite drug and talk therapy, I can tell they are helping.
That makes the book a 5 star for sure.
However the misleading title "drug free" therapy is weird because he acknowledges that drugs can be useful for people (thank goodness).
Finally I'm not sure if I'm just not used to self help books, but the tone made me feel dumb.
However, I emphasize the book is absolutely worth reading for the 5 star parts.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، در این کتاب، در موردِ نظریهٔ شناختی و ارتباطِ حالاتِ روانیِ انسان با افکارِ خویش، به خصوص دربارهٔ مشخص ساختنِ عواملِ به وجود آورندهٔ افسردگی که همان خطاهایِ شناختی میباشد، پژوهش و بحث شده است... در کنارِ این موضوعِ ریشه ای، نویسنده رهنمودهایی برای بهبودِ روحیه که شاملِ تغییرِ افکار و اندیشه و وادار ساختنِ خود به فعالیت و سرانجام تغییرِ اعتیادهایِ ذهنی یا تغییرِ قانون بندی هایِ شخصی، ارائه داده است ... درکل میتوان گفت، <دیوید برنز> بر این باور است که با تغییرِ اندیشه و کردا
خوب، به چه دلیل، وقتی برایِ خودتان مشکل پیش می آید، به این صورت خودتان را دلداری نمیدهید و این نسخه را برایِ خودتان صادر نمیکنید!؟****************************‎البته به غیر از کار بر رویِ اندیشه و نوعِ کردار و بازی با ذهن و کنترلِ عادتها، همانطور که در آغازِ ریویو نوشتم، نویسندهٔ کتاب، در موردِ داروهایِ شیمیایی و تجویزِ آن برایِ درمانِ افسردگی نیز بسیار سخن گفته است که چکیده ای از آن را نیز برایتان در زیر مینویسم‎پژوهش هایِ چند دههٔ گذشته، نظریه ای را ایجاد کرده است مبنی برآنکه، شاید افسردگی نتیجهٔ کاهشِ سطحِ موادِ خاصی در مغز، با نامِ "آمین" باشد...
review chi tiết: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XpMBf...mọi người xem nhớ để lại comment nha!mình thấy tác giả trình bày ý tưởng rất sáng, có sức thuyết phục, tuy nhiên trong sách không cắt nghĩa "trầm cảm" và bàn luận về khía cạnh khoa học của căn bệnh này mà chỉ tập trung rất nhiều vào cách đối phó!mình không chắc là cuốn sách này sẽ giúp những bạn bị trầm cảm nặng nhưng đối với những nỗi buồn thông thường thì cuốn sách này quả là một liều thuốc hữu hiệu!
This book saved me from the brink 5 years ago, by helping me to take control of my own negative spinning thoughts and applying Cognitive Rationale to them one at a time.
It helped me go much farther in life and now, according to my new therapist, I have to revisit it.
Bah!!
Will i never learn to stop my catastrophic thinking permenantly?
Anyways, whining aside, it's a much better option to do these simple exercises than drive myself to the madhouse for good.
And the relief of not being a slave to your own negative thinking is just that - an amazing relief.
This book can help you identify twisted thinking and then change it to something more realistic.
It was amazing to me to discover just how twisted, unhelpful and just plain irrational my thinking was!
But so does "positive thinking" and affirmations -- they can be just as black and white, twisted and unhelpful.
Feeling Good teaches you how to identify what Burns calls cognitive distortions and replace them with more rational and reasonable thoughts.
Eg the thought "I never do anything right" is an example of all-or-nothing thinking, overgeneralization, jumping to conclusions, fortune-telling, and discounting the positive.
Reading this book is like installing new and upgraded software into your mind.
This book changed my life.
Dr. Burns is really easy to understand, and funny too, though I'm not sure if he means to be.
I got through the book fairly quickly for its size, and I have currently been reading and re-reading it.
It has become my bible.
It comes with me everywhere.
Once I read through it once, it became even easier to go back and find a certain subject if I felt I needed a little catch-up on something, so it is really excellent even after you do your initial reading.
This book helps people get over depression by realizing your thoughts sometimes lie to you, exaggerate or basically make no sense. For example, all or nothing, discounting the positive, or magnifying the negative. I can't believe how frequently I did this. The author is so persuasive and easy to read. This is literally one of the top life changing books I've ever read. I would definitely recommend it for depressed people AND average every day people.
Stopped reading about 100 pages in. It was written I think in the 80s, so although I'm sure a lot of the foundational pieces are really key and haven't changed, it just felt really old-fashioned for me. There was a lot of casual sexism that I struggled with, and it just felt more like a textbook than anything else, which made it difficult and not exciting to read. I'm sure I'll pick it up over the years and read diff parts of it, refer to diff pieces of it. It just wasn't for me right now.
This book is basically CBT (cognitive-behavioral therapy) in a box; I read it a couple of years ago in conjunction with a therapy program and picked it up again for a refresher. The anti-drugs bit is almost as annoying as I remembered, although he doesn't argue you should never take drugs. He's just not a fan. The actual CBT part is what I read it for.
An absolute flaming pile of drivel that I would actually consider dangerous to a deeply depressed person. Stay away and if your therapist has this on their shelf, run.
Good insights, but I got the impression that the author thought that whoever would read the book would be stupid.
It took me nearly a month to study all of the parts of this book that felt relevant to me, just part time on the weekends and on the evenings where I felt especially energetic.
A very rewarding experience indeed.David Burns lays out the base layer for cognitive therapy (CT, not to be confused with 'cognitive behavioral therapy' which is a more general term), using terminology that anybody could understand, and provides a ton of scenarios of how the therapy is applied.
Another caveat is the scenarios I mentioned earlier can be overtly-exhaustive and take up tons of the books content.
David Burns' Feeling Good: The New Mood Therapy is a deserved classic of self-help books in the cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) tradition.
All of the research I've seen – both here and elsewhere – concludes that cognitive therapy and medications are about equally effective in decreasing depression.
One of several advantages to cognitive therapy relative to medication – other than cost and decreased risk of side effects – is that there is a significantly lower rate of relapse following treatment, presumably because in cognitive therapy people learn skills that reduce their likelihood of relapse – if they continue using these skills after completing therapy.What are those skills?
