https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/874394.Peder_Victorious
While Giants in the Earth was alive with the epic struggle to create a home in a new country, this book dealt more with what happens after the settlements are created and 'civilization' arrives at last in the form of organized religion, education, and politics.Young Peder, the only family member born in the country, goes through his growing up years in these pages.
Peder at one point thinks he would like to go into politics, but he had also thought he would be a minister, so he was no more certain of his future than any teenager usually is.For me the saddest aspect of this book was the education system of the day.
Taking place in several years around 1885, the adolescence of Peder, son of Per Hansa and Beret, is interestingly related to bring out three major themes of the American immigrant experience in the northern Great Plains of that era.The politics of statehood for Dakota is the simplest and sets the stage for the others.
Rølvaag focusses this large topic precisely down on Peder and shows how his youthful, naturally moral, happy mind and self are severely disrupted by the intrusion of religion and the unnatural guilt that it brings.
First, read Giants in the Earth before Peder Victorious.
There is also a biographical note on Rolvaag at the end of the novel.Giants in the Earth is more accessible and perhaps more riveting than Peder Victorious, but for those who are interested, this novel of settlers on the South Dakota prairie brilliantly shows the conflicts that must have arose with the Americanization of the Norwegian settlers.
While I would very highly recommend Peder Victorious, I know it is not a book for everyone and needs to be read after Giants in the Earth.
I was so disappointed in this book. His first book Giants in the Earth is a magnificent story of the Norwegian settlers in the Dakotas. This book is a sequel to the first and I could not believe that is was the same author. What a let down.
The second novel in Rølvaag's prairie trilogy is not great, but I sure did enjoy reading it.
Peder is an obvious symbol of the young American spirit on the precipice of the modern age: a native born son of immigrants suspended between the past and the future, the traditions of the Old World and the promise of the new, restrictive religious morals and progressive thought, homesteading and westward expansion, etc.
If you enjoyed the characters and the pacing of Giants, then I would recommend giving this novel a shot.
Having lived for several years in areas of the Central Plains settled by Norwegians, I was drawn to read Rolvaag's books.
As so many others have stated, Giants of the Earth was an easier read.
I found Peder Victorious much slower and difficult to wade through but I did find that the "arguments" it posed and the community divisions it described mirrored what I experienced living in this region as an outsider.
Though the story described life many decades prior to my experiences, I found it to be a wonderful description of life there even decades later.
My Original Notes (1997):Good, but not great. Certainly not as good as Giants in the Earth. The novel ran hot and cold for me. Some parts didn't hold my interest at all (too much religion?) and others did so much that I couldn't put it down. Interesting sections involving the loss of native language (Beret vs. children and the church)My Current Thoughts:I still plan to someday reread Giants in the Earth, but sadly this follow-up holds no interest to me.
Much more poetic than Giants in the Earth...and a struggle is central in both. The first is the physical struggle to tame the land and organize people; the second is a spiritual struggle to become oneself, not a mirror image of immigrant parents & the struggle of parents to see their children becoming other than ethnic..
I gained a new appreciation of the pioneer experience, learned a lot, and fell in love with the characters.
I was very glad to learn there was a sequel.Peder Victorious is good, but not as good as Giants.
The experience of Peder's generation, born in America, was much different than that of their forefathers'.
The danger is much less as more people built bigger and stronger communities and civil society.
The land becomes less of a towering presence than it had been to a handful of people living in sod huts.
The generations have a hard time understanding each other.
This sequel to the landmark novel Giants in the earth continues the saga of Norwegian immigrants into the second generation.
Pedal, the child born after the immigrants reach and settle in South Dakota.
Pedal struggles to be American, not Norwegian while his mother fights back by insisting he speak Norwegian and resisting his friendships with the "undesirable" Irish catholic immigrants.Although not as famous or moving as Giants in the Earth, Pedar Victorious is actually more readable and while dealing with heavy subject matter, it is a less dark story.
Definitely a good novel to read as it tells a great story as well as providing a very realistic view of Norwegian immigrant life.
The second volume of a trilogy, this book does not disappoint. Like the first (Giants in the Earth), it follows the lives of the Holm family, Norwegians who have settled in the Dakotas. This one focuses on the youngest child in the family, Peder, and traces his growth to adulthood. As with the first, it also closely follows his mother, Beret, who increasingly resents the young people's reliance on English rather than the language of the old country. I look forward to reading the final book in the trilogy, Their Fathers' God.
This moves more quickly than Giants in the Earth. We get to know Beret (the mother of Peder) at her best and worst...from accepting Peder's future wife to trying to burn down the schoolhouse in a fit of righteous indignation.This was written in the early 20th century, but his depiction of anxiety admixed with religious devotion is touching, particularly for those of us who share Beret's Norwegian heritage and her propensity for worrying about everything. She is at times headstrong but always deeply human.
This was a total slog, but once I was in I felt obligated to finish it.
I should remind myself to ignore that feeling when I have 20 other books sitting on the pile.
Like Giants in the Earth, this one is maybe notable for the extent to which a woman is a complete and central character, forward-thinking in many ways but deeply entrenched the old country ways in others.
The book also clearly defines the generational divide between the immigrant parents and the Americanized or American-born children.
But I have a feeling there are lots of other books that define that divide much better.
This sequel to Giants in the Earth is set near Sioux Falls around the turn of the last century. The American offspring of Norwegian settlers upset their elders with their American ways. Speaking English, courting those not Norwegian, taking part in school dramas, all bring Beret Holm to question herself and God. Peder, her youngest, grows to manhood torn between respecting his mother and being a determined American. The struggle between generations continues today, giving the story relevance. The novel is also interesting for its historical view of everyday life, religion, and politics.
Mr. Rolvaag did it again - sympathetic characters, great plot and the human condition. Well written and organized as are all of his books. If you are a first reader of his books, you should begin with GIANTS OF THE EARTH or at least read it, the greatest of his books. In my opinion, his works are among the greatest of the historical fiction of Scandinavian immigrant experience. I highly recommend it.
These are such relevant, contemporary American struggles. No other novel of pioneers I've read published during this time period manages to delve so intimately into all facets of life: faith, mental illness, sexuality, loyalty, identity. I can't believe how much I love these books and how well they've aged.
I'm rating this at 3 stars simply because although I read it twenty years ago, I don't really remember it. But I like Rolvaag (Giants in the Earth is wonderful, and gets 5 stars), so Peder Victorious gets the benefit of the doubt.
I think this book and its companion "Giants of the Earth" are both important books for Lutherans and/or history buffs to read. I am hoping that many folks at Our Savior's will pick it up and join the conversation of how we see ourselves and our mission in the broader world.
Not quite as good as Giants in the Earth but excellent nonetheless, have also re-read this one several times.
awesome!
Sequel to one of my favorites (Giants in the Earth), but not as good by a long shot. It started off well, but became really dry.
Fantastic sequel to Giants in the Earth!!
This sequel did not live up to the first book at all. Boring subject matter, too much emphasis on strange politics that left me very uninterested in continuing to read
Wonderful sequel to Giants in the Earth. Because I am one of the descendants of the northern plains settlers to whom that book is dedicated, these novels hold a special place on my shelf.
A little too bleak for me. Beautifully written, though.
