https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2845024-anathem
I think that Neal Stephenson is very intelligent and a terrific writer. That said, I found all the made-up googlies in this snarfle, really boinged my thnoode. Surely there is a slankier way of telling us that we are reading about another zoof than to make up every other googly. It made it very difficult to forkle the snarfle and I put it down after only 80 ziffies. This will not stop me from attempting the next Neal Stephenson snarfle, however.
One of the most challenging books I've read, and one that I got a lot of satisfaction out finishing.
Stephenson's got a wildly inventive mind and reading him is like jumping onto a high speed bullet train at full speed.
It took about 70 pages to get used to the new 'language' that he invented for this story, and I had to refer to the glossary repeatedly, but suddenly it just clicked, and I was completly caught up in the world Stephenson created.Not for casual reading, but fans of sci fi, physics or alternate world plots should give it a try.
You probably couldn't get a lot of people to read a frequently dry 937 page text on the material Stephenson is covering, but you might could if you dressed it up in the form of a science fiction story about an alternate world where the schism between science and religion occurred at the dawn of Western Civilization and both retreated to cloisters to observe their respective discipline.More than anything, 'Anathem' reminded me of 'The Young Ladies Illustrated Primer' from 'The Diamond Age' (particularly the part where in the narrative where it illustrates fundamental concepts of computer science) only without the illustrations or the interactivity.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me. While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award.
That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.
(We just call him Razzie unless he gets a full-name telling-off for humping his little brother.) It’s a story about a tight-knit group of highly academic friends (who happen to be monks who worship maths and science) in a post-post apocalyptic world, being tossed out into the wider, wilder society on a quest to make contact with dimension-hopping aliens.
The Diamond Age and Cryptonomicon are fantastic techie epics (who else would think to pit Confucianism against Victorianism in the battlefield of nanotechnology?), and (while clearly in need of some pruning and wildly anachronistic) the Baroque Trilogy is awesome.But Stephenson has always had problems with plot.
(Stephenson does great, sometimes even brilliant, macro analysis.)However, the action is mostly in stasis for a good two-thirds of the book, and it takes a very hardcore geek to make it through the Many World theorems that stand in the place of much of the plotting.
Also, it’s worth noting that, as a general rule, male camels don’t particularly enjoy being milked and have a tendency to make their displeasure known by humping you as hard as they can.(It’s also worth noting that, in this context, “humping” means slamming your head into the ground with their humps—given that, in this instance, the ground is quicksand, it doesn’t actually hurt all that much, but see previous comment re: getting sand in some pretty weird places.)Anathem is my first exposure to Mr. Stephenson’s oeuvre, and I’m given to understand that it’s not necessarily his most accessible work.
How the heck could that be fun?Ahh, this book moves on from that soon enough, especially when mysteries both small and really large start piling up, and the high-tech history of the world with it's truly awesome advances is only *part* of the reveals in store for us.The world building is probably the most fantastic and excellent that I've ever read in any novel, and I'm even including masterworks like Dune and Foundation in this category.
Q:Do your neighbors burn one another alive?” was how Fraa Orolo began his conversation with Artisan Flec ...“Do your shamans walk around on stilts? ...“Do you fancy you will see your dead dogs and cats in some sort of afterlife?” (c)Q: Orolo had asked me along to serve as amanuensis. It was an impressive word, so I’d said yes. (c)Q:My talent for envisioning things, and spinning yarns in my head, failed me that evening, as if it had gone on vacation. I could make no sense of my interview with Spelikon. (c)
Also, I'm given to understand that some people would prefer not to have to think about polar coordinates, geometric proofs, bubble universes, string theory, or relativity in their pleasure reading.
A few weeks before the book came out, Stephenson talked about his involvement with the Clock of the Long Now. Anyone who's been interested in the project for the last couple of years knows that this is an effort to make a clock that will last centuries.
And, because this is a Stephenson novel, this leads (naturally) to alien spaceships, parallel universes, time travel, codes, enigmas, adventures, technology that refuses to work properly, and people in disguise.
As the most popular review of this book shows clearly: this is not a novel for everyone.
This book is very similar: it requires an intellectual gym, so to speak.
I had a lot of trepidation about reading this book, the reviews and comments from fellow sf readers (hello PrintSF dudes!) are generally positive but I gathered from them that this is a long hard one (ooh-er!) which is bit intimidating given my very average intelligence.
The story is set in a world where academics live monk-like in monasteries apart from the beer guzzling, pizza eating, TV watching, rest of the world.
In any case after settling into the book there was no real need to look anything up, the book is not hard to follow once you are acclimatized to it.Beside the online resources the book’s accessibility is helped by the normalcy the main characters, especially the narrator / protagonist.
My other, second, parallel review wants to nit pick about the super-reliance on dialogue as a way for Stephenson to discuss and regurgitate ideas of semantics, being and consciousness that thinkers and writers have discussed for hundreds (and some ideas thousands) of years.
There are other authors who use fiction as a way to introducing the public to philosophical ideas.
My first thought when reading this book was another book I own and skimmed 10-years earlier called Clock Of The Long Now: Time And Responsibility: The Ideas Behind The World's Slowest Computer.
Obviously, this clock and the clock's idea were a big inspiration for Stephenson and I was glad to see that acknowledged.
DNF 33%To like this book you will have had to have been a philosophy major who likes a book about monks debating non sequiturs in a fictitious version of earth where there's no plot and because of your heart condition you never achieve a heart rate of over 43 in your cryogenic chamber. To be fair some of the comparisons to the ridiculous issues of modern society did make smile at how the author spun it but the ratio of reading to a smile or a that's an interesting point moment were too few and far between.
It isn't until maybe page 600 or so that, after a huge amount of overly obvious foreshadowing involving theories of "the polycosm," that the next big plot point drops: the spaceship is from an alternate universe!In some science fiction novels, the alternate universe concept would just be tossed off in the course of a page or two, and things would move on.
The book does very, very little with its alien spaceships and alternate universes; it ends, so to speak, where many science fiction stories would begin.
They engage quite often in what we here on Earth would call Socratic dialogues, and discuss and work with a lot of important principles that come from our own scientific past--although on Arbre, things like Platonic forms and the Pythagorean theorem are named after different philosophers.Almost immediately after the book starts, Apert begins, which is a 10-day ceremony at the beginning of each year in which certain inhabitants of the cloisters all over the world (and there are many, though "Anathem" revolves around one in particular) are allowed to interact with the outside world.
The division though for Stephenson is not social class (which obviously doesn't exist in the contemporary USA, perish the thought) but a vaguer sense of human excellence, a natural aristocracy versus the untermenschen who form the bulk of the population, who have breakfast at casinos and enjoy films with lots of explosions.By the middle section of the novel events are mixing these different worlds and it was possible while reading to imagine them coming together for mutual enrichment.
I loved it, but it should be noted Stephenson is one of my favorite authors.
The society here has a long, involved history with many different words to learn that are crucial for the story.
It's ironic how the words are important since there are 2 important groups of scientists, or maths as called here - one semantic and the other syntactical.Already you can see there's alot more going on here than just the story.
And what a story it is!
As usual with Stephenson, the characters are so likable, even the annoying ones.

“A brilliant playful tour of the terrain where logic, mathematics, philosophy and quantum physics intersects, a novel melding wordplay and mathematical theory with a gripping human adventure,” says the blurb and the only part of that assessment I’d take issue with is the “gripping” part!
In fact there’s no character development to speak of in the novel; merely an assembly line teenage romance.
Stephenson has an amazing visual imagination (not unfortunately coupled with much of an emotional imagination) - perhaps too much so for my liking because it often led to very lengthy descriptions of physical objects that I was still unable to visualise three pages later!
The main characters were like high school kids with consequent juvenile humour and emotion.
For example, the continuing literature, encyclopedias and underlying philosophies of the schools of thought created by Stephenson.Die Evolution von Denken und Philosophie in Verbund mit Technologie weiter gedacht Stephensons Roman, beinhaltet eine Fülle an Plots, Anspielungen und Konzepten.
Diesmal nicht der Verklärung, Indoktrination und Monotheismus gewidmet, sondern mit dem Fokus auf die Erleuchtung.
Das könnte man auch als Satire auf die Art der Dogmenbildung in den Wissenschaften auslegen.
Wie von Stephenson selbst empfohlen, vervollkommnet ein paralleles Lesen der von ihm separat auf seiner Homepage zur Verfügung gestellten Fußnoten die Tiefe der Lektüre noch zusätzlich.
I’ve put off tacking Anathem for many years because: 1) it’s a massive door-stopper about an order of monks millennia in the future devoted to philosophy, science, and mathematic theorems; 2) it’s got an entirely new lexicon of neologisms invented to describe this alternate world; 3) most of the readers I respect have found it challenging but rewarding; 4) will I lose all my SF street cred if I admit to not liking this?I decided that the audiobook format might be the best way for me to take on this behemoth.
Öncelikle 3 uyarı:1- Neal Stephenson sizi önce suya alıştıran bir eğitmenden ziyade havuza iteleyiveren dayınıza benziyor, o yüzden biraz su yutmaya hazır olun.2- Bu kitap yoğun derecede felsefe-bilim göndermeleri ve teknolojik ayrıntılar içeriyor, eğer bunlardan hazzetmiyorsanız elinizdeki kitabı usulca bırakıp sizi mutlu edecek başka bir dünyaya yelken açın.3- Kitabı okumadan önce idealizm ve materyalizm ekseninde dönen tartışmalara, gerçeğin doğasına dair tarih boyunca edilmiş laflara, öne sürülmüş fikirlere göz atmanız romandan alacağınız zevki arttıracaktır.
Bizde nasıl ki din adamları dünyadan soyutlanmak için manastırlara ya da dergahlara çekilip dışarının etkilerinden uzak duruyorsa Arbre'da da bilim ve felsefeyle uğraşan zeki insanlar bir nevi manastır olan konsentlerde, kendi matik ortamlarında yaşıyorlar.
Neal Stephenson might be determined to make his audience feel stupid, in the nicest possible way.The American novelist has long been considered one of the great madmen of science fiction, a towering intellect who synthesizes technical mumbo-jumbo and a Monty-Pythonesque capacity for silliness into daunting tomes as entertaining as they are impenetrable.
Erasmus is sent beyond the walls (or “extramuros”) to find Fraa Orolo, a fellow avout who may hold a key to the purpose of the lights, but who had been subject to an anathem, an excommunication whereby the avout has been “ejected from the math and his or her work sequestered.”Like Frank Herbert’s seminal work Dune, a large part of mastering Anathem’s dense narrative is coming to grips with its new set of words and definitions, aided through a handy glossary.
The reviewer has a point, there is a silliness to some of the common words that Stephenson decides should be changed to kind of nonsensical words, just to show that this is a world that is like ours but not ours.
I have a feeling most readers will welcome the parts I didn't like though, and I can't imagine he would sell nearly as well if he locked up his novels solely in the realm of history and theory, but when he does stay in that 'boring' land he really does an excellent job.
Anathem isn't an easy book, and it's not a quick read.
A book I will definitely read a second time in a few years and then hopefully a third time, several years later.
Neal Stephenson is obviously bursting with knowledge, and I had to look up the meaning of unknown words more than once.
Cheers for expanding my vocabulary.The plot of Anathem takes place on a different planet than ours and Stephenson invented quite a few words to go with it.
Thankfully the Kindle comes with a dictionary and Anathem comes with an extensive glossary.After about seventy pages, I felt more comfortable with the language, and the book started to flow.
If you do, this novel has some amazing concepts, interweaved throughout a great story about Erasmus, a young student/scientist living in a cloistered sanctuary for hundreds of scientists, philosophers, mathematicians, etc, on a planet called Arbre, which is similar in a lot of ways to Earth, but more advanced.
The discursions are somewhat held in check here, and always related to the story in some way, even if it doesn't seem so at times.As I mentioned, there are a lot of philosophical concepts discussed, but much of it is between two or more characters, called 'dialogs,' in which the conversation is almost like a battle, with one gaining the upper hand, the other losing.
4.5 stars. Another original, robust effort by Stephenson who is one of the best SF writers working today. Highly recommended. Winner: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (2009)Nominee: Arthur C. Clarke Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (2009)Nominee: John W. Campbell Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (2009)Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (2009)Nominee: Britsh Science Fiction Award for Best Novel (2009)
This can make the reading, particularly at the beginning (say maybe the first 100 pages or so) as one is settling into the story and the plot is largely put aside for background and setting, a bit more complicated and potentially frustrating for some readers (although there is a very useful Glossary of many of these words at the back of the book).
Stephenson combines philosophy, mystery, science fiction, fantasy, anthropology, satire, and a lot more in what is probably one of my new favorite books of all time.
The concent of the avout idea is pretty much my idea of a utopia: it's a massive, complex societal structure whose members' primary function is philosophizing.
I LOVE IT.Stephenson clearly took many of his ideas from Western philosophical tradition, with lots of little nods to Plato, Aristotle, Einstein, Jules Verne, and many others.
Much of the book consists of these formal Dialogs, but they are absolutely fascinating.
Does time exist?
The university-educated, critical reading, spectacle-wearing intellectual who lies deep within me wants to award it five stars for its sheer audacity, limitless depths of esoteric concepts, and laudable efforts to make math interesting.
Yes, it's interesting and, yes, I can honestly say I learned a few things, but they were hard lessons.
well, I'd stopped caring.It took me nearly a year of on again/off again reading to get through it, and it was more a sense of obligation that kept dragging me back than any real desire to get back into the story.
