https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6585201-changes
But in Changes Butcher does it all in one book, in 438 pages he strips Harry to the bone, divesting him of every possession, including his soul.
That's a bill I'm not sure he can pay.When Butters got shot.And then Harry kills Susan, the one woman he has ever loved, to save their daughter and put an end to the Red Court.He gives Harry a daughter, and then he takes her away.And then that horrible, wonderful bait-and-switch with Karrin at the end.Wow.There are so many great, great scenes, but let me just single out a few.The Grey Council arriving in the nick of time, when we finally get to see Blackstaff at work.
Reread. Nothing has Changed. I am head over heels in love with this book.
It's less annoying than in the first books, when it was obvious to everyone, including Dresden, that he was being manipulated, but he was "unable to help it" and would lead him into disasterous situations.
Some of the favorite side characters make appearances in very appropriate ways, including Commander Luccio, Toot-toot, Butters, and Mister.
It is very action paced, with each conflict seeming to lead to more disasters.
While it may not make for the best mystery and character building, it builds its own kind of suspense, and makes for an engrossing and fast read.
I can't say much about the book's storyline without spoilers, but there are parts of the story...threads if you will, that have been running through the other volumes more or less underneath other "Main story lines".
The book is well written and structured, the character which (many of us have followed since his first novel if not his first appearance) has grown along lines that the story laid out.
The stories/story and Harry have been true to themselves.The ending here is of a type that Butcher hasn't used in the Dresden novels before...I can't say more other than it's a sort of "non-resolution" ending.
In Changes (The Dresden Files #12), Jim Butcher provides strong motivation and plenty of fast-paced action on the way to a satisfying vampire and magic-filled conclusion!
Harry Dresden, against all odds, must rescue a daughter he never knew existed from enemies at the Red Court.
The personae of Dresden as professional investigator/wizard for hire in Chicago (now yanked out of his usual routine by events beyond his control) has a lot to recommend it.
He's fighting for the life of his daughter.
The noir tough guy personae, in the tradition of Sam Spade or Philip Marlowe, still works; if Dresden is hit, he'll hit back and keep hitting until he's knocked down.
Holy F- balls, this book just made my all-time favorites list.My heart? Through the ringer. My nerves? Shot. My mind? Blown.This was me through the entire beautiful, horrible, intense, emotional, perfectly narrated audiobook:Twists and turns like never before. Get ready for the ride of your life. And that cliffhanger ending... just gut me now. Perfection.
Long ago, Susan Rodriguez was Harry Dresden's lover-until she was attacked by his enemies, leaving her torn between her own humanity and the bloodlust of the vampiric Red Court.
Susan is back and she has a big surprise for Harry in this one.
If you've read the synopsis then you probably already know what it is, but if you haven't I would recommend not reading it so you don't spoil it.When Jim Butcher titled this one Changes, he wasn't kidding.
As in all of the Dresden books, this one was loaded with action.
I'm feeling quite happy, fresh from reading Changes. Had I read it faster, I would have given it less than 4 stars. So who knows, if I'd read it slower, maybe I'd have rated it a perfect five. But I feel that though I can't ignore the flaws of Dresden's episodic epics, I realize that for a book that provides so much fun, it's okay for part of it to be mindless.
In the space of a phone call, Harry Dresden learns he has a daughter with Susan Rodriguez and that she's been kidnapped by the Red Court of vampires.
Can Harry save his daughter and stop the bloodline curse?I have mixed feelings about this one.Pros: As usual, Jim Butcher delivers all the thrills of a summer blockbuster.
Even though I'm glad the vampire plot line went the way it did, how much more of a Mary Sue can Harry Dresden be?Another thing that bothered me is that the ongoing plot about strife within the White Council didn't advance one inch.
We have Harry with his usual hang-ups but the problem is more thorny than anything he's faced so far.
I could feel the emotions that were stirring somewhere deep inside me, gathering power like a storm far out to sea.
I stepped forward, let the door bang closed, and snarled, "F*ck subtle." pg 46In the past few books, Harry has become more powerful but also has more responsibilities.
pg 95, ebookReaders are treated to more information about Harry's murky past and a cliffhanger of an ending that will have you immediately reaching for the next book.
Writing style in the last few novels has bothered me the most.
Butcher spends more time in trying to write things he's not so good at and it makes me wince.
I think Butcher's strengths have always been in his ideas and the plotting of those ideas and the writing style has always been a few notches down, especially when he deals with the love issues or "wise talk".
WRITING STYLE: C to C plus; PLOTTING: B minus; CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: C plus to B minus; CHANGES/CHOICES: B minus; WHEN READ: December to January 2012 (revised review early August 2012); OVERALL GRADE: C plus to B minus.
I never knew where this was going to go next, and each time another explosive ingredient was added, my intestines clenched.And on top of that, this book was surprisingly emotional as well.
Harry makes choices that I was sure NOTHING would ever cause him to make, and rather than losing respect for him for these choices, I have even more because after 11 prior books and several short stories, it's perfectly clear how dire things would need to be in Harry's view in order to lead to that point.
I really liked the Red Court/Maya correlation, and I think it makes perfect sense.
I knew this book was going to hold some big developments in this series just because of the title.
This 12th book in The Dresden Files series is my favorite so far.
I knew what happened in the last portion of the story (thanks to my husband's accidental revelation of extreme spoilers) but the final hour of this book still left me shocked and speechless for awhile.
I'm so glad that I read action series slowly.....my husband speeds through and then has to stew on cliffhangers for months.
So why does the publisher insist on picturing Dresden on every book cover wearing a hat????
That was amazing, the best yet. Changes was absolutely the right name for this book. Non stop action from beginning to end. Everything, I mean absolutely EVERYTHING got changed up in this book.I can't imagine how the next book is going to lookThis volume also makes me realise how far Harry Dresden has come as a wizard since we first met him. If I had the time I'd even be tempted to go back and re read the whole series up to now.This is one of the best urban fantasy series out there.
Jim Butcher must sit up nights thinking up ways to make Harry Dresden’s life miserable!
Just when you think that his life can’t get any more complicated, Butcher dreams up worse things for him to deal with.Susan Rodriguez returns to mess with Harry’s reality—and inform him that he’s a father and his little girl is in tremendous danger from the Red Court vampires.
He has to call on all of them, all his talents, all his anger & power, and all of his cunning to get through this tangle.So Butcher throws everything into the blender and gives it a good whirl.
Hmmmm Bad day to be in the Red Court!Harry is willing to compromise all of his values and even his own soul to save his daughter.
One of my favorite lines of the book comes when he is talking to Ebenezer McCoy his one-time mentor."I understand Harry, your little girl is in trouble and you want to be there for her.""Not want to be", I said quietly, "going to be".That sums it up for me.
Harry will be there when his little girl needs him.All of the wit, sarcasm, action, plot twists and plain old excellent writing you expect from Jim Butcher is there in spades...
I think I like the series the most when Harry is PI'ing and working out some mystery and not being some sort of all powerful wizard in an alternate universe which is what happens in this one.Loads happens, within the first few pages a massive reveal happens which changes the whole of Harrys outlook on things and shapes his future and the plot of this book.
3.5 starsAs the title implies, this is a pivotal book in the Dresden Files.
In the opening scene, Susan Rodriguez shows up at Harry’s door.
It turns out that vampirism wasn’t the only “condition” Susan was dealing with back in books 3-5.Harry’s thoughts quickly follow: I have a child.
My child is in danger.
I will do anything to protect my child.Harry appeals to the White Council for help, then the Grey Council, 
Everyone’s on board for the final showdown: Murphy, Susan, Thomas, Molly, even Bob and the fairy godmother.The stakes are high.
The game has been stepped up for these last couple books (like 5 at this point), in plot, writing, stakes, everything.
This series go from a fun popcorn series at first to some of my favorite books of all time possibly.I keep thinking, there's no way he can up the stakes after the last book and then he proves me wrong.
The stakes in Changes were as high as they get with the Red Court.And if you haven't listened to James Marsters reading these books, you're really missing out.
I'm slightly concerned with that ending, but Changes was another in the epically great column instead of the old popcorn one.4.5 out of 5 Stars (highly recommended, like super duper highly)
4.5 stars
On the one hand I’m going – nooooo....Harry, not that!
Still, I’m very much looking forward to see how Harry’s decisions here will play out over the rest of the series – especially after the very end of this book, after I thought the story was done and dusted, where Butcher throws us another major curve ball which is probably even bigger than what we've seen so far.Once I recover from psychological damage of multiple shock moments – I’ll probably put this down as my favourite Dresden so far.4 + stars
"Laugh whenever you can. Keeps you from killing yourself when things are bad. That and vodka." I need vodka for this review! I mean, I wanted some shake-up in this world but What-The-F*ck???? Jim Butcher??? It's like he decided to just burn the whole house down just for the hell of it. there may be casualties, but I'm willing to let others pay that price...I mean, sure, it was fun! When isn't it fun to watch things burn? Who doesn't like to throw things from a tall building just to see them sma
It's like he decided to just burn the whole house down just for the hell of it.
Harry finds out he has a daughter that his bitch of an ex-girlfriend decided not to tell him about.
As a matter of fact, she decided to give the kid away, to a family, without Harry's consent or knowledge.
Suddenly, Susan, the bitch, decides that Harry should get involved in his daughter's life.
And, lots of bad things that there is no coming back from.Also, a cliffhanger that is so awful that I'm surprised that Jim Butcher himself survived to write the next book.
And then the big battle was there and there were so many unforgettable moments to capture like Harry's duel, the angel shouting through Murphy (scary),the appearance of black-staff and the grey council, Martin's devious and cunning nature (which was scarier)...
I wrote a monster one last time.As always with this series, there are little small moments where I have to stop and mentally finger wag at Jim Butcher, mostly to do with Harry's sometimes sexist-attitudes, but overall this book really is a masterful piece of urban fantasy.
In fact, you’d be hard-pressed to find something within its pages that doesn’t represent a change in Harry Dresden’s life (or that of his friends and family), whether its something as minor as dealing with a broken wizard’s staff, or as major as learning you have an eight year old daughter that you never knew about.
Another fantastic Dresden file! The ending though... So glad I can pick up the next immediately!
Once again I am amazed at how Jim Butcher manages to make Harry Dresden more interesting as the series progresses.
It will be interesting to see where Butcher takes the series from here.
I don't yet know what Butcher has in store for future novels but it better be good.
This installment has Harry doing some globetrotting and fighting some vampires, an ick, goblins and a lot more vampires.
Harry is required to make choices that he may regret in the future and are choices he would not have made earlier in the series.
Content Advisories  It is difficult to find commentary on the sex/violence/language content of book if you are interested.
This time around I was not.I was absolutely mindblown.Jim Butcher knew what he was doing when he titled this book.
And. Really, this book's way less about Harry going "ZOMG I'M A FATHER" (though don't get me wrong, it's absolutely about that) than it is about how Harry's determination to save his little girl lays unutterable waste to everything about his life.
Long time fans of the series, you better be prepared to have all of the little signature details you've come to know and love about what makes Harry Harry to be blown to kingdom come.And be prepared for a cliffhanger, because Jim Butcher is a cliffhanger-writing BASTARD.
Change is neither good nor bad, it is what it is.
- Don Draper I really like this line from the Mad Men series, it just summarizes to us that Change is an integral part of our life whether it is good or bad.
Executive Summary: If you've been enjoying yourself to this point in the series, you should really love this book as much as I do. It's definitely the best book of the series so far.Audio book: James Marsters seems to approach each book like a 1 man show now. He has distinct voices for all the major parts, and even most of the minor ones. It seems like he enjoys reading them as much as I do, and that comes through. Full Review I had originally reviewed this book on Living Social's Virtual Booksh
That review got imported here, but it didn't really do it justice in my opinion, so I scrapped it and started over again.I could go on rambling for paragraphs about how much I love this series, and how great this book, but I'll try to keep things concise.While I was in the process of re-reading this book, I was really surprised to see there are negative reviews for it.
I get that this series won't be for everyone, but why have you read 12 books if you just don't think it's that good?
And he gets to – I am not kidding about this – stab a woman to death for plot-related purposes that essentially boil down to “so he can feel bad about it.” And there are a few agonizing moments where Butcher is clearly trying to cope with the multiple “dude, stop being a sexist fuckwit!” memos he must have gotten over the past decade, because he has his hero thinking things like, “I like strong women, I don’t understand what’s wrong with that!
Actually, try thinking of women as people, full stop.This is what I mean when I say it’s enragingly compelling, because omg, next book please?
