https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/716097.The_Secret_Language
I guess this was the first boarding school book I read, and perhaps should be blamed for a lifetime's obsession! It is certainly a leebossa book, and it is distressing that Ursula Nordstrom burnt the sequel before it could be published.
This was my very first “school story” book, and it’s unusual in that the children are much younger than in most of the other boarding school books that I’ve read.When I was young, I didn’t like the way the girls were scolded; I thought the (first) housemother was too stern.
I’m so glad I decided to reread it and I’m grateful to the A Thrilling Term At Goodreads… group for reconnecting me with what I consider to be my first school story.This is certainly a ‘leebossa” book, my favorite of the three “secret language” words.I just found out from Goodreads friend Constance that the author wrote then burned a sequel.
I read this book over and over as a kid.
One thing that is still relevant to this day is that it's one of the few books where a character has synesthesia, though it's not really discussed as such in the book.
I have gender-personification synesthesia, which basically means that my brain assigns distinct personalities and genders to numbers and letters.
I never thought it was odd, because in this book one of the characters talks about which numbers are boys and which are girls (though as a kid, I remember thinking that I thought the genders were different than those that she said).
I first read an excerpt of this book in third grade, and I immediately needed to find out more about what happened to Victoria and Martha.Over many years, I forgot the title of this book, but I never forgot bits of the plot, or the magical feelings it evoked.
Many years later, the first volume of Harry Potter kind of reminded me again of this story, and I searched Amazon for it.
I'm so happy it's again part of my collection; even though I have no children of my own, I love reading it for my own enjoyment.Young girls today who are used to technology may be too jaded to treasure this as I did, but I hope not.
I totally forgot about this book, until Goodreads was like "Hey you might like this" and I was like "Hey I did!" Anyway, I borrowed it from a friend when I was like ten or so and I remember really liking it!
This little book is the sun in the imaginary universe of my childhood. My best friend and I used the words in here as the basis of our secret language, that we would use on the playground to thwart our enemies who wanted to kill unicorns (which clearly, we were). I lived at the edge of an enchanted forest, where the language comes from, and we even had maps of it. And being the smart girls we were, somewhere, someone may still have our written dictionary for the secret language. Leeleebossa!
This was probably the first American boarding school book I ever read. It was not in my hometown library, but during summer vacations with my grandparents, I would borrow it from the Cathedral City, CA library. Vicky and Martha have some wonderful experiences (I still want to be a pistachio ice cream cone for Halloween, for instance), but Nordstrom's wistful tone lingers throughout the book. It's a sophisticated touch that helps to show why Nordstrom was such a talented editor of books that pushed the envelope. Best friends and nice housemothers are great, but they can't replace HOME.
Those stars are based on my love for this book as a child. Not so sure how any kid today would take to it. Afraid to give it to one and be crushed by them not liking it!
Martha is actually a fairly disagreeable girl which Victoria doesn't realize since she is so grateful that someone would be friendly to herself, the new girl.
I suppose if I were being completely honest, this would get 2 stars.
However, I also feel it a bit unfair to judge completely by today's standards.
While, I'll admit that one is completely new to me, that isn't enough for originality in a story.
I suspect the editor Nordstrom would have been able to pull a more creative story out of the writer if she had been the editor, not the writer.
One of those books that changed the lives of many little girls who read it, Nordstroms story about two friends at boarding school is deftly written and the points of view of the girls are totally in character.
A wonderful read for adults as well, this was Nordstrom's only novel.
Her high standards (she was the children's book editor behind the most famous books of the later half of the 20th century: Charlottes Web, Where the Wild Things Are, Harriet the Spy - the list goes on) kept her from publishing more of her own work.
This as the first boarding school book I ever read and was instrumental in my compulsive obsession with the genre, from all the series books to The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie to Frost in May as an adult. It's a simple slip of a book but the story of two girl's friendship in the face of new experiences is sweet and enduring.
This wonderful children's novel about friendship, growing up and imagination is vibrantly-written and filled with vivid imagery and unforgettable characters. The boarding school setting provides an interesting backdrop for the story and it's definitely a creative book.
How did I miss reading this when I was a kid? I loved it and can only imagine what my reaction to it would have been in my younger days. I had an unfulfilled dream of going to boarding school when I was a kid. Can't believe I never read this. Better late than never I suppose.
This was my moms favorite book as a little girl and one of the only one's that she kept.
She used to read it to me and my sister when we were little.
I loved it then but I was little enough not to get some parts of it.
I was sucked in and I soon understood why it was, and still is, one of my mom's favorites.
Well I for one would definitely put this in a list of great children's classics alongside books such as Anne of Green Gables and The Secret Garden.
This book is a timeless classic just waiting to be rediscovered again!
This was a favorite childhood book which is now out of print.
I felt a strong connection to this book because one of the two main characters was named Martha, like me, but unlike most Marthas I have read about, this Martha was smart and feisty.I recognize that the book is outdated and will probably never come back into print, but I will always have a warm connection to it.
The two of them create their own language (thus, the title), and get into all sorts of adventures together.Anyway, most people will never have the opportunity to read this book or the desire to, but I love it.
I've read this book a million times and each time it's slightly different.
It's definitely a child's book, no challenge for adults, but it's such a sweet story.
My mom read this book as a child and passed along her 1968 paperback version to me when I was a child.
It is a well-loved copy of the book, falling apart it the binding.
As with many books, I picked up on different things this time.
There's no overarching struggle or mystery in this book, just an 8-year-old girl trying to survive her 1st year away at boarding school.
Does give me a impression of what boarding school is like.
Also when I thought about it a bit, about people and changes and friends and acceptance and a lot of other everyday things that we may not always consider.
The only thing I didn't like was how shallow most of the book seemed to be, important points were just brushed on and most of the story seemed to fake and set up like a movie with overactors which took away the impact it could have with such strong feelings...
It was like an AMAZING book that was covered up with simplicity that actually took the spotlight leaving the heart-wrenching or heart-warming moments underneath.
A very sweet, small, old-fashioned boarding school book. What I like is that it's so real--there's no big adventure or evil villain or anything for the two main characters to save. Except themselves. Both Vicky and Martha grow up a little in this book, and neither they nor the reader realize it's happening until it's over. I'm not sure this is a book I'd go back to again (or would have gone back to again as a kid), but it's definitely something I'm glad to have read. And I always like when characters have my name!(March book club)
I first read this as a child, and I have to say that there are elements that have stuck with me to this day-- the ice-cream cone halloween costumes, the hut building, the boarding school of tiny dolls the girls make in a dresser drawer, and the making of a tiny landscape with a purse mirror as a pond in it.I'm not sure what, if any, lesson there is here, except a tiny one about developing friendships; but one doesn't have to be a boarding-school child to enjoy this.
The Secret Language is about two girls and one is named Martha and one is named Victoria and they live at boarding school and first Victoria is roomates with Anne and Anne is mean sometimes. Then she goes home and then Martha gets to be roommates with Victoria and they get bunkbeds. One day Martha told Victoria her secret language, and they built a hut, and they are good friends. I love this book.
I loved this book when I read it in elementary school. Part of the book's interest to me was reading about girls who were actually sent away from their families to go to school. That seemed like such a terrible thing, but I was very curious to read about how they coped and their adventures. Also, the idea of a secret language thrilled me!
I read this in the 3rd grade and I adored it. I must have read it 100 times. I just ordered an old copy from ebay and I'm looking forward to reading it again. I so wanted to go to boarding school after this book, but I knew I'd be more of a homesick Vicki than a Martha.
I read this book soon after learning to read as a child (I was a late starter) and it fired my love of books and the wonderful worlds that can unfold with each page.
A childhood favorite
Very, very leebossa.
Probably my all time favorite book from 1972-1976, grades 2-6, but especially circa 4th grade. I still recommend it to girls around that age when I sub in the elementary school library. I loved re-reading this book over and over, and feeling like I could be one of the main characters' friends at their private school. The Giant ice cream cone costumes... and their language.... and their friendship!! Love it.
I hadn't read this book in years, but reading it again as part of a reading challenge was like visiting with an old friend.
She would probably be labeled ADD nowadays and put on meds, but when this book was written those meds didn't exist.
Vicki grows up a lot by the end of the story.
The story is dated since it was written in 1960, but Nancy Drew is dated and plenty of people still enjoy her stories.
This is a gentle story that would make a good bedtime read.
I don't remember exactly when I read it, but I was about the same age as the girls in the book, so I'm guessing around 1966.
Upon rereading it, I found the story vaguely familiar, although I didn't remember many details.
I can see why I liked it, even though I had nothing in common with these boarding school girls.
I sort of remembered being intrigued by the made-up words when I first read this, but as an adult I wish there were more to it.
I would say the book is bossa, but not leebossa.
We have Ursula Nordstrum, editor par excellence, to thank for the children's book career of Maurice Sendack and other notables.
I am grateful to Nordstrom for urging Louise Fitzgugh to turn a collection of journal entries and sketches into the "Harriet the Spy" we know and love.
"Secret Language" is Nordstom's first and only attempt at writing for children herself.
Though it has moments of the authenticity she clearly appreciated and and encouraged in other author's work, the story overall seems stilted and incomplete.
Perhaps frustration with her own first attempt kept her from trying her hand again as the author, not the editor, of books for children.
I read this because I so loved it as a child. I wanted to remember what it was that made me love it.As so often happens, I found it pretty boring and lacking in depth. The actual "language" consists of three words that anyone could get the meaning of from context. So if that was the thing I liked about it, I didn't ask for much.The other reason I re-read it was because it was written by the famed Ursula Nordstrom. You'd think she would have written something better than this...
