https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13099926-the-roads-must-roll
Classic Heinlein featuring gigantic moving sidewalks.In the future, cars and highways have been replaced with massive engineering projects – conveyor belt people and equipment moving structures that connects the nation.Read as a part of my Summer 2016 Heinlein Reading Fest!!
How does that work?”First published in 1940 in Astounding Science Fiction, this demonstrated not only Heinlein’s exceptional writing ability but his great imagination as well.
This story also became a part of his great Future History series.Also noteworthy is Heinlein’s ability to convey multiple ideas within a science fiction vehicle.
Heinlein correctly predicts the future again. How long before SpaceX colonizes the moon and then launches a multigeneration interstellar ship?
Great sci-fi short story with some action.
This is a great, short piece by Heinlein.
And has moving walkways that reach 100 miles an hour.
Here, from Wikipedia, is a history of moving walkways (notice that the invention came first, and inspired HG Wells):"The first moving walkway debuted at the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893, in Chicago, Illinois, in the United States.
Six years later a moving walkway was also presented to the public at the Paris Exposition Universelle in 1900.
The walkway consisted of three elevated platforms, the first was stationary, the second moved at a moderate speed, and the third at about six miles per hour.
G. Wells' settings."This story really should have been flesh out into a novel.
Obviously this is a version of the future that didn’t come to pass, and that’s not necessarily a negative in my book.
For The Roads Must Roll, the majority of the story is based on the slidewalks.
In addition, I don’t feel like the slidewalks are essential to the story, and yet so much time is focused on them, that they become the center of the story.
It seems like there could be a very interesting problem if the main character and the antagonist were together for more of the story, but instead the majority is focused on this world building of the slidewalks, and the issues between the main character and the antagonist are almost glossed over.
In a recent sci-fi class the professor briefly mentioned this Heinlein story as a "must read" and "best of all time" classic sci-fi short story.
Written in 1940, Heinlein imagines a future America where people are transported on roads that move at 100 mph.
I enjoyed this short story - in 1940 Heinlein already dreamt of a visual phone console (a la tablets/skype) and moving sidewalks.
(Although, I've been told that H.G. Wells had a moving roadway in an 1899 story.) The point is - I get a BIG kick out of these sci-fi authors.
Book 2, but you don't have to read every story nor read them in any order.The setting rang a cord with me.
I am a Central California native and I had a career in the Transportation industry, so I found it particularly of interest.
There are elements of the sliding walkways I had read in other works.
I haven't researched to see who first came up with the concept, but I was interesting to see this variation of that theme.
And as someone who has had the (dis)pleasure of using the roadways during heavy commute traffic, I can see how this could take place.Have a GoodReads.
This story may seem dated today, but it's still relevant in its own way. Set during about the 50's, as car use in real life shot up with the construction of highways, the moving roads here sound pretty dangerous as they stretch from one city to another, eliminating the need for cars but bringing about a potential for grave injury from the Road users. It's a story that stands well on its own, and as part of the Future History timeline (as the third story in the collection)
I am currently reading Heinlen's future series and this is my favorite of the stories I have read so far. The story moved fast and incorporates ideas from socioeconomic struggles as well as the futuristic imagination. That Heinlen is known for. How the story plays out is eerie of today's political climate, which makes for an interesting read.
Although I really wanted to like and enjoy this story (because the idea behind it is great and has a lot of potential) I can't really get around the fact that at some points the narrative seemed "bumpy" and the characters felt really one-dimensional, like card boards in a window.Overall just a 2.8/5.
Onestamente ho sempre pensato che le strade semovibili fossero un'idea alquanto stupida.
Просто не впечатляющий рассказ про техногенное и дорого-ориентированное будущее, где сильный и смелый герой-администратор спасает США от катастрофы, которую вызвал неправильный набор кадров.
This is the first work of Heinlein I've come across with no polygamous marriages... So, it has that going for it.
...[Spoilers ahead]......"Get home to your wives..." not husband's."Yes darling... that's a good girl" while talking to his wife.Yuck... I have to remember when this was written.At least this story is in present tense and not in flash back like the last two 1930s Science Fiction stories I just finished. I enjoyed the action and suspense.
I actually read this novelette, this time, as part of The Science Fiction Hall of Fame, Volume One, 1929-1964,/i>.Heinlein's style during this period is easy-to-read and I enjoyed re-reading this story of a USA with a rolling conveyor-type transportation system. The story deals with a guild dispute and its effect on those on both sides.I realized, when reading this again, that this is the image of conveyor belt transportation that I have had in my head for years; I couldn't remember which science fiction story I had derived it from!
I think about these sidewalks whenever I'm in a big airport with the moving walkways. Why can't they install faster lanes in the middle?
Inventive sci-fi and a decent read for a day sick at home.
