https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40929.The_Rise_of_Theodore_Roosevelt
He uses primary sources, sometimes even rough drafts of letters and documents, and goes well beyond Roosevelt's own writing - which is exhausting even to contemplate, since he once claimed that he wrote between 100,000 and 150,000 letters a year.
'Even as he maintained his vow of silence, he was shouting from the hustings.' As 'Colonel Roosevelt' describes how Roosevelt's 'Bull Moose' campaign, via the breakaway Progressive Party, managed to hobble the Republican Taft and elect a Democrat, Woodrow Wilson, this book is at its most intensively political.
And Mr. Morris's research is thorough enough to amplify an already well-documented part of the Roosevelt story.
The next in the trilogy covers his years in the Presidency: Theodore Rex. I will very soon continue with that!
Please read the comments left below this review if you want more details of some of the events in this book.
Deakins perfectly bit off and spit out his words, as Theodore learned to do in his fight against asthma.If you are in the least interested in Theodore Roosevelt, then read this book.....even if it is very long!
That is impossible in a prologue; that is why you are reading the book, and this is the first of a trilogy on Theodore Roosevelt.
2. I wanted to understand his family life.
What do all of us want when we pick up a book?
You will get LOTS, and I do mean lots, of detail about every animal he shot: where the bullet went in, where it came out, in some cases where the bullet went after exiting, information in short that no one wants to know.
I'm not looking to write an article about it, but a good basic understanding would be nice in a book over 900 pages long.
I expect lots of interesting detail in a book this long; in fact, that's what I'm looking for.
In The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt, Edmund Morris gives us the first in a planned trilogy on the overstuffed life of our 26th president.
But as Morris shows, Theodore Roosevelt was a man who lived the principles of doing, trying, daring.He started as a sickly, asthmatic boy who liked insects and taxidermy.
Morris chronicles all this and more in a way that places you into Theodore Roosevelt's life.
For instance, Morris gets into the specifics of the rough-and-tumble world of New York politics, where Teddy started as a "political hack", became an assemblyman, and eventually lost a bitter mayoral election.
Having been invited by Nate and Robyn Gregory to spend two weeks with them in NW Wisconsin and having had several prior visits to the nearby town, I brought up two books for scholarly review and trusted to the Hayward animal welfare resale shop for supplementary pleasure reading.
There I picked up this text and a couple of birthday gifts for a niece, expecting to make a start while still up in the north woods, but to finish it at home.In fact, the text was so engrossing that I finished it in a few days.
Having just read another biography of the young Roosevelt, Mornings on Horseback, I had expected to be a bit bored by repetition.
He was only Human after all.I started off my review of Edmund Morris's first installment with that observation to make a point.
Morris wrote an honest account that shows Theodore Roosevelt in both his glory as well as his more sordid moments.
It's taken me nine years to read the set (it took Morris almost thirty years to write the books) and I intentionally did not rush through them.
When I started I was nine years younger (duh) and still somewhat hero worshiped Roosevelt.
The one thing that Morris shows is that Roosevelt  believed  in himself and everything that he set out to do.
I no longer hero worship Theodore Roosevelt.
In this superbly written first volume of three, Morris portrays a man of unbelievable fortitude, accomplishment and unparalleled scope.
He is anything he wants to be: an avid outdoorsman, a skillful boxer, an accomplished hunter, a cattle rancher, a Harvard phi Beta Kappa and magna cum laude graduate, a devouring reader of every possible subject, an author of highly regarded books on topics as diverse as naval warfare and ornithology, a remarkable politician and reformer, a fearless war hero, and last but not least a loving husband and father with scrupulous moral values.
I can’t wait to start the second volume.
Teddy Roosevelt ranks among the most colorful characters in American history.
But who knows that Teddy once captured a horse thief?
Who knows that Roosevelt was a prolific writer, and somewhat of an expert scientist?
Teddy ranks alongside characters such as Alexander the Great, George Armstong Custer and Kit Carson as people one wonders, "How did they do so much in a single life?" Edmund Morris is one of the best writers of historical non-fiction that I have come across, and I highly recommend this book, and its companion volume, "Theodore Rex", to readers.
This is one of the great biographies of all time, certainly the greatest I have ever read.
Thus it is also the greatest presidential biography I have ever read, and I've read nearly thirty such volumes.
This is the first volume of Edmund Morris's three-volume biography of Theodore Roosevelt, covering the years from his birth to the moment his presidency began.
Never have I read such a thoroughly researched, minutely detailed, yet stirring and compelling biography.
It is a masterful, unforgettable achievement, one which leaves me hungry for the second and third volumes.
As thorough as the beginning of this biography might be, its ease of reading entices many who might otherwise shy away from so long a tome.As I seek to expand my knowledge of some key historical figures, I chose to tackle the three volume Morris biography of Theodore Roosevelt.
Through his presentation of a few themes--the ongoing thirst for knowledge, dedication to family, and a passion for politics--Morris depicts Roosevelt as both a man of many complexities and one who is closely tied to those around him, and succeeds in selling this idea to the author in this first tome.The first Volume, reviewed here, encompasses the life of Theodore Roosevelt from his birth in 1858 through to 1901.
I had to give this book 5 stars because frankly, it is one of the finest biographies I have ever read.
That said, Morris does not allow his admiration and respect for his subject to cloud his judgment.
As I said, I had to award the book five stars because of the brilliant insightful way it was researched and written but I do feel that Morris let himself and his readers down by not delving into Edith's personality and their marriage.
If I could award the book 4 1/2 stars I would have.
A brilliant narrative about a truly astonishing figure in American history. It's hard to go wrong about describing Roosevelt's fascinating life, and Morris brings it up here with fine examples and colorful descriptions. It astonishes me how a select few people can do so much with their lives.Dee-lightful! Bully!
His efforts were not effective in gaining repeal, but they did eliminate (for a time) the endemic corruption that came out of unequal enforcement and bribes/protection money paid to police.On the overall negative side of the portrait of TR, and gosh, I wish I could have taken better notes, but listening while driving did not allow that, here is a sampling of the outrageous statements I was able to note:Disc3 Track 13 - TR goes on a long trip out west, just after his wife and mother died almost at the same time, leaving his baby daughter in the care of his sister.
I'm not really a fan of politics or presidential biographies, so was a little wary going into this one, but out of all the presidents, Theodore Roosevelt has been my favorite to learn about.
Roosevelt doesn't even become president yet, that's the second book for another time.You don't have to be interested in politics or TR's politics to like this either.
Every now and then, I was checking online for that stuff or I'd forget to look it up before me next sitting.I recommended this book to most American who are interested in various topics about Theodore Roosevelt, the time of his life, or presidential politics.
Read like an adventure story. What an interesting man Teddy was.
I'm a fiction reader, mostly; this was one of the efforts I made at reading some non-fiction after hearing Edmund Morris in an interview on a talk radio station.
He was immensely impressive--so well spoken, so literate, so knowledgeable about, it seemed, nearly everything.The book was as good as I had hoped, full of wonderful detail of Theodore Roosevelt's personal life.
The development of his political policies becomes more understandable, but more than anything else, I was impressed by his great "vigor." It seemed utterly inexhaustible and was such a driving force in his view of life and things one could and should achieve.The very satisfying story of a remarkable man written by a really gifted author.
It's hard to separate my admiration for Theodore Roosevelt from my appreciation for Edmund Morris's great biography.
Edmund paints a compelling picture of Teddy with his boyish enthusiasms, boundless energy, magnetic personality, odd speaking style (at least for much of his early career), and top flight intellect.
Roosevelt was a committed amateur biologist who wrote one of his many books on the big game animals of the west.
By the way, as the Assistant Secretary of the Navy, he did more than almost anyone (with the possible exception of the Spanish) to trigger the Spanish American War.This is the best book I have read this year.
It is hard to believe this is not fiction.
It is not only a great picture of the precocious, intellectual, and multi-talented Roosevelt, but a good look at what America was like in the late 1800s and delves into alot of history that gets glossed over in school.While this is the first book of a planned trilogy (Theodore Rex is the second, and the third is still in the works I hope), it is the best one so far.I knew little about Roosevelt before i read this and am amazed at his accomplishments and character.
An excellent account of TR up to his vice presidency. Even knowing what comes next, it is amazing that Morris leaves us with a cliff hanger at the end of this volume.
The focus, though, is on Roosevelt the person in the context of his times, not on his times—thus, there is a vast amount of information about Roosevelt’s personal life, which makes him a much more compelling figure than would a focus on, say, the politics of his time as Governor of New York (though that is covered too).One thing that comes through very clearly in the book is the old American expectation of the wealthy, where the rich hewed closely to the Biblical injunction, “For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required.” In those days, as shown by Roosevelt’s father, great wealth carried with it great expectations, an obligation that, while it was not always honored at that time, has almost totally disappeared in the liquid modernity of today, where the idea that rigid social expectations should constrain anyone at all is anathema to the modern belief in total and continual personal autonomy.
I decided to pick up this review after my professor was discussing him in class with such pep and enthusiasm, I was compelled to read up on him.Roosevelt is probably the most interesting man to ever run for office, in my opinion.
From being the young gun in congress, to standing face to face and preparing to fight against assailing native americans out for his head, to swimming with sharks, reading 3 pages a minute and 2 books a day, capturing thieves who stole his boat by building a boat with his bare hands and chasing them way farther than he should have, patrolling the streets at 3 in the morning, cleaning up the crooked NY cops and politicians like some sort of super hero, and at 40 years old making due of his promise that he'd fight for america when the time came.
I have read many biographies over the last many years, especially on the Presidents, and this one is one of the best.
Chronicling the rise in power of Theordore Roosevelt, this book essentially starts with his childhood and goes to the moment he finds out that he has become president through assassination.
With some amazing details, this book goes through every position he has until Presidency and through all the major decisions he has to make personally and professionally.
I cannot say enough great things about this book.
Can't wait to read these.
A monster of a book fitting a monster of a man. Theodore Roosevelt's life is the stuff of fantasy, right up there with history's greatest men Alexander the Great, Charlemagne, Napoleon. This first book in a three book series by Morris covers Roosevelt's life from his birth until the brink of his first presidency. In those forty something years he packs several lifetimes.The writing is full on detail but doesn't feel boring. It draws clear pictures of the characters of the time and their relationships with Teddy.This a biography's fan dream come true.
The dynamite personality.
I am so glad that i read this book, to know better about Theodore, to ponder about his exceptional character.
I have seen many small tales about TR often described on Q&A websites such as Quora, but now the book gives a more comprehensive picture about the man."Years later, White tried to analyze the elements of Roosevelt's conquering ability.
It is not social superiority, he decided, not political eminence nor erudition.
It was youth and the new order calling youth away from the old order.
It was the inexorable coming of change into life, the passing of the old into the new."
This is a phenomenal book! It is thoroughly well-researched and written in a style that keeps the reader's attention while imparting all the necessary information. Morris has painted a captivating picture of the early life of the most interesting president the US had ever had. I felt like I knew Teddy Roosevelt while reading this book. I would highly recommend this book to anyone.
http://bestpresidentialbios.com/2015/...“The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt” is the first in a three-volume series by Edmund Morris about the life of the 26th president.
And Roosevelt himself supplied more than enough raw material for others to reach the same conclusions as Morris.With 741 pages, “The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt” is both detailed and lengthy.
The resulting literary and philosophical insights reveal aspects of Roosevelt’s character (and the evolution of his personality) which even Roosevelt himself may have never considered.Overall, this first volume to Edmund Morris’s series reviewing Theodore Roosevelt’s life is rewarding, fabulously detailed and insightful.
I was anxious to read a biography on Theodore Roosevelt and did some research about which one to choose.
A man as exciting, ambitious, and fascinating as Theodore Roosevelt needs so much more than one volume.
This tome chronicles his childhood, young adulthood and ultimately his rise to the presidency of the United States of America.
Morris continues his study of Roosevelt's presidency in "Theodore Rex" (I've already ordered it and am looking forward to reading more about this amazing man).Between Roosevelt's exciting life and Morris's thoroughly researched, well-written style, "The Rise of Theodore Roosevelt" is gripping and fascinating.
Not because it's terrible; it's just so much information, and so detailed that it is at times difficult to absorb, and difficult to read at length in one sitting.
Which is fine when reading about Teddy's extraordinary youth, his exploits out in the Dakota Territory or leading the charge up San Juan Hill.
The author is so enamored that he believes that literally everything Teddy did deserves mention.
I'm sure there are other books out there that offer a more easily digestible overview.
This book is for those that want to take the deep dive.
An amazing and beautifully written biography of Roosevelt's life up to the assassination of McKinley.
I read it in only a couple of days even though it is almost 800 pages.
I had only 2 relatively small criticisms--first, Morris seems to quote ad nauseum from people who (my quotation marks) "saw the greatness" in Roosevelt early on.
It also simply gets annoyingly repetitive to read.
My second criticism is that Morris lets Roosevelt's family just slide out of sight for much of the book.
Even with the majority of the book being focused on Roosevelt's career, surely his role as the father of a large and active family should come in somewhere.
For some reason I've been kind of obsessed with all of the Roosevelts recently.
I looked up the most highly rated biography of Teddy Roosevelt on Amazon and found this book.
It really satisfied my itch to learn about Teddy.
It covers the first 43 or so years of his life, until he became Vice President.
The only part I skipped was the chapter on the Rough Riders' charge up San Juan Hill; I just find reading about military history painfully boring.
If you're curious about Teddy's early years and you have hours and hours to read, I highly recommend this book.
