https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59779.The_Castle_of_Crossed_Destinies
Calvino seems to agree with the idea in the beginning, but his stories crumble and disappear in the artistic arrangements he is imagining while looking at the multiple meanings each card contains.Different stories are interlinked, and give the cards new potential for interpretation.
We meet Faust, King Lear, Macbeth, Oedipus and many others while the narrator tries to find his own story in the cards.Literature like painting?
Is there any meaning in his ambiguous mutation of the functionality of art and literature?I would say let the tarot cards speak.
I am a huge Calvino fan. His stories are full of mathematical marvels and ingenious ideas. The Castle of Crossed Destinies has both of these characteristics and is a short but marvelous read.
But whatever the drug, this collection of short stories surrounding the obvious use of tarot cards to write stories or re-write common tales or to lay down the structure of alchemy or to just have a plain ole good time is a concept I can love in pure concept terms, and do, but just how much did I love this exact work?Um. Well.
I kinda felt like we were playing with little green interchangeable army men one moment and then we were having an intellectual discussion about high alchemical concepts and symbolism and the structure of the soul versus the medium in which we use it and its inversion, as seen with Doctor Faustus.
Another guest then begins his story, also by laying down cards on the table – this time crossing the two rows with two columns.
BUT this is a book based on the real obsession of the author, a writer who decided one day to see if he could make patterns out of rows of tarot cards so as to literally use them to tell stories and to then see if he could link those stories together and also somehow write them up in a way that complemented the sting of images he had produced on the table before him.
Está-se mesmo a ver que só o primeiro objectivo foi cumprido, pois nem mesmo um Mago pode criar talento onde ele não existe; só por artes do Diabo...Para meu grande pasmo, de entre os sete alunos, seis sonhavam ser escritores e apenas um — o que não pretendia ser escritor (eu) — tinha hábitos de leitura.
Todos escrevemos umas bacoradas, levadas a Julgamento com leitura em voz alta, as quais foram muito aplaudidas pelo monitor e colegas — como mandam as regras da boa educação, generosidade e hipocrisia, fazendo pouco caso da Justiça.Ora, os cartões do senhor Calvino para construir estes contos foi um baralho de Tarot.
People sit around in pubs and get drunk and bandy ridiculous ideas about - hey, what if you wrote a novel but you couldn't use one letter of the alphabet!
Hey what about a bunch of characters who can only communicate by means of tarot cards?
He actually took that shit seriously!") Now I haven't read Perec yet (since I am crazy enough to want to know how it pans out) but I tried Calvino and he's just never as interesting as the idea that started him off.
Full disclosure ; a friend of mine once tried to get me to co-write a play based on this book.
But I never had a friend, GR or non-GR, who knows how to read tarot cards.The tarot cards, considered as prophetic to some and are themselves open to many symbolic interpretations, are used by Calvino (author of the essay Why Read the Classics) to tell different stories, based on real life or imagined by himself.
It is reason enough for this to be included in the 1001 You Must Read Before You Die. I supposed that this kind of storytelling is something that only a gifted novelist can do.Fabulist Italo Calvino (1923-1985) was an Italian journalist and writer of short stories, essays and novels.
Kitabı son cümlesi ile anmak ve tanıtmak istiyorum:Güneş'in gökte dikilip durmasından usandım; artık Dünya'nın sözdizimi bozulsun, oyun kartları, kitabın sayfaları, yıkım aynasının tuzla buz olmuş parçaları birbirine karışsın diye bekliyorum. Italo zihnimin zerrelerine zamanla git gide daha çok nüfus ediyor. Ben hiç bitmeyecek bir inşaat için hazırlanan çimento harcı gibi öylece dönüp duruyorum. Durmak da istemiyorum.
This one looked like pure candy - stories of knight, hermits, and queens told from Tarot cards!
The stories unfold one card at a time - the selected cards are also shown in the margins - as the narrator struggles to create coherence between each card and an overall narrative thread throughout the course of the reading.
These tales are fascinating for how they unravel themselves even as they're told, inviting the reader to question every turn they take.
Taken as a whole, Calvino's exploration of the Tarot decks mainly adds up to a dizzying realization about the range of possibilities within a single shuffle.
كانت هذه أفضل خاتمة لهذا العام - الغير موفق معي بالمرة - وقراءتى للرواية العبقرية لكالڤينو ( قلعة المصائر المتقاطعة) فكرة عبقرية حقاً ربط فيها كالڤينو قصص متنوعة بأوراق التاروت -على إختلاف نوعيه- وبينما يشدك الأسلوب السردي فى البدء وتتعود على غرابته (من متابعة رسومات كل ورقة وما تحمله من معنى يناسب القصة) ..
اكتشاف مذهل كان كالڤينو فى آخر أسبوع من عام 2015!!بينما توقعت منذ عدة أشهر أن يكون اكتشاف هذا العام بالنسبة لى (هنري ميللر ، وأناييس نن ) ..
إلا أن كالڤينو وفى خلال بضعة أيام فقط كان اكتشاف هذا العام ..كل عام وأنتم بخير ..
ولنبدأ تحدي العام القادم :-)
Ma non solo, in un mondo di muti ogni carta acquisisce un significato diverso per ogni spettatore che ne interpreta diversamente i segni, ognuno secondo la “propria” storia e secondo la propria sensibilità.
Lo scrittore è forse solo un traduttore, un addomesticatore di parole, che ci aiuta a vedere meglio il filo di una storia, in mezzo al gomitolo aggrovigliato che le racchiude tutte.Un libro che si potrebbe leggere dieci volte, per ritrovarci 10 volte la propria storia di quell’istante della propria vita, per capire cosa significa creare storie, per meditare sul perché le storie significano così tanto per noi uomini.
حتى قبل أن اصل إلى الحكاية اﻷخيرة، عرفت أن قلعة المصائر المتقاطعة هي قلعة الكتابة أعتقد أن أجمل ما في الرواية هي أسطرها الأخيرة والتي يتحدث فيها كاليفانو عن ناجين من الحرب أخرسهم هول ما شاهدوه ولم يبق لهم في عزلتهم في نزل بعيد سوى صفحة التسالي من جريدة قديمة!
يا الله كيف لخص كاليفانوا الحكاية كلها، وكيف غير رأيك في عمله فجأة وأنت تقرأ هذه السطور الأخيرة بعد أن يكون رأسك قد دار من تشابك القصص.
هذا يجعل من الكتب لغة جديدة -لاحظ أن أوراق التاروت قد تغيرت في هذا الجزء- كاليفانو يتحدى ذكاء القارئ وصبره في هذه الرواية الغريبة.
"The Waverer's Tale" emerged; I started writing it down; I looked for other combinations of the same cards; I realized the tarots were a machine for constructing stories; I thought of a book, and I imagined its frame: the mute narrators, the forest, the inn; I was tempted by the diabolical idea of conjuring up all the stories that could be contained in a tarot deck.The Hanged Man and The Magician from the Bembo Tarot used for The CastleAren't those interesting?
In seeking to tell the stories of the mute narrators and keep his self imposed rules, Calvino ends up with the narrator within the story interpreting the cards for the reader as they are laid down.
هذا الكاتب ايتالو كالفينو مجنون رسمي ،لكنه ممتع ومبدع.
"Estou cansado de ver O Sol permanecer no céu, não vejo a hora em que se desfará a sintaxe do Mundo: que as cartas do jogo se embaralhem, as folhas dos infólios, os fragmentos de espelho da desgraça".E eu fiquei cansada do livro mesmo sendo pequeno. Não consegui entender a relação das cartas do tarot com as obras de Shakespeare nem o propósito da narrativa.
All the travelers are gathered around a dinner table and find they are for some reason rendered mute in this place and must tell their stories to one another by laying cards from a tarot deck in a certain sequence.
The cards are depicted in extensive engravings in the margins of the pages which renders the book quite keepable as an artifact.
Also many of the characters prove to be historical personages which adds a further mythic quality to the already fairy-tale setting.As with many divination systems (the I Ching also comes to mind), the appeal of the Tarot to the less mystically-minded is perhaps that reality and peoples' experience of it is not so unique that a set of possible scenarios or interpretations, of a quite reasonable order of magnitude, can be employed to describe most situations.
Taroccare un libroQuest'opera di Calvino ha due origini: un convegno internazionale sulle strutture del racconto e in particolare una conferenza su “La cartomanzia come sistema semiotico”; la scrittura di un testo per l'editore Franco Maria Ricci che illustrasse i Tarocchi del mazzo Visconteo.
No. Ha creato una specie di cruciverba fra vari personaggi, poiché il sole, il carro, l'amore, la morte eccetera possono essere attribuiti a tutti.L'idea non è per niente originale, come dire che qualunque romanzo o poesia è contenuto nel dizionario della lingua italiana.
Devo dire che mi stupisce che Calvino, autore che mi piace molto, abbia ritenuto pubblicabile una cosa del genere.

I like books.
And I like books on books.
Italo Calvino creates an air of suspended fictional narratives, with 78 tarot cards, weaving in, amongst others, Hamlet, Macbeth, King Lear, Oedipus and Sigismund of Vindabola and his interpretation of dreams.Travellers meet in a tavern, wish to share their stories, but find themselves rendered mute.
With just tarot cards at their disposal, though the the tales they create look clichéd, their telling is very much not.
Interpretations are questioned, and Calvino makes a wonderful statement, Showing every man in a perpetual pursuit of permutations of words (or tarot cards).
Worth the read.
Ma tutto ciò non è stato sufficiente per farmi apprezzare pienamente il libro.La prima parte (Il castello dei destini incrociati) l'ho apprezzata di più per la facilità nel seguire l'evolversi delle storie.
La seconda parte (La taverna dei destini incrociati), al contrario, l'ho trovata pesante per via di un intrecciarsi (e anche sovrapporsi) delle storie, che ha reso tutto più complicato.
L'utilizzo dei tarocchi come rappresentazione dell'inconscio collettivo, i tanti simbolismi e l'iconologia spinta non fanno proprio per me.
Un po’ come Perec, ne “la vita istruzioni per l’uso”, altro capolavoro cui quest’opera mi ha fatto pensare.La fantasia e la creatività di Calvino si dimostrano insuperabili, nel castello c’è l’ universo, c’è l’uomo che percorre le strade della vita incontrando pericoli, guerre, amore e follia, in un percorso insidioso e periglioso, al cui termine il significato profondo sta nelle parole di Orlando che ha perso la ragione, rappresentato dall’Arcano dell’Appeso, legato a testa in giù, che dice: “Lasciatemi così.
A group of guests - unknown to each other - at a castle in the woods find they have lost the power of speech, so they use a deck of tarot cards to "show" their stories to each other.
Some cards are reused in more than one tale, resulting in a tapestry of cards that can be read forward, backward, sideways, slantways, etc.Cool idea, right?
And now I just feel dumb, because there are reviewers out there who garnered a whole nesting-doll of inferences and outferences and sideferences and Shakespearean characters that just JUMPED out of the pages at them but I'm sitting here like HUH?So, thanks Calvino, for making me look like the fool card.
La lettura di questo libro ha occupato tutta la mia giornata, non riuscivo a staccarmi.
Ho dovuto fare delle pause forzate, soprattutto durante la lettura de La Taverna, perché non ho una cultura così vasta da capire ogni riferimento, anche se piccolo, ad altri testi libri o storie.
Mi sono goduta a pieno la lettura, ogni sua sfumatura e ammetto che avrei letto 'Il motel di destini incrociati' molto volentieri.
Peccato non l'abbia scritto, ma capisco la necessità di andare avanti, considerato il lavoro enorme dietro la stesura de La Taverna.
Non so niente di tarocchi, ma la lettura è stata comunque piacevole e interessante.
Ecco, questo sarebbe un libro da tablet che riproducesse le immagini dei tarocchi che Calvino fa giostrare per raccontare le storie di questo bi-romanzo, del castello e della taverna dei destini incrociati.Geniale nella costruzione geometrica delle storie, raffinatissimo e coltissimo nella scelta dei personaggi che pesca nell'Orlando Furioso, nella mitologia, nelle tragedie di Shakespeare.Il passaggio che preferisco è: "Anch'io cerco di dire la mia" dove l'autore si lascia condurre dalla successione della calata delle carte e racconta dello scrivere: Nella scrittura ciò che parla è il represso.
Whenever I start reading one of his works, I am stunned at the brilliance of his imagination, and then wonder if I can ever hope to match his level of sheer innovative genius.This book, for example, is about a strange castle inside a forest.
And the inhabitants of the castle have to communicate their stories using a deck of Tarot cards.
I repeat, each of the stories is told only using Tarot Cards.
How fucking cool is that?My intimidation with Calvino's work usually passes quickly and is replaced with amazement as I dive further into the book.
Io ce lo vedo Calvino, che passa giornate intere a spostare carte sul tavolo, a girarci intorno, a prendere appunti, ad alzarsi la notte e spostarle di nuovo. Idea bellissima e ben riuscita secondo me, ma non tutti i racconti mi hanno fatto impazzire.
The stories in the first half fit together organically, each leading into the next one and fitting together with all the others that came before in the crossword puzzle effect mentioned in the description; in the second half Calvino could not bring order to the chaos of cards, and while he made that chaos part of the novel's structure it still failed to satisfy.
This book is 144 pages.
It is a book, translated from the Italian.
The stories are based upon the Tarot.
The Tarot is based upon life.
Life is based upon stories.
Once three more reviews are added, there will be one review for every page in the book.
No correspondence between reviews and pages will ever convey the infinite complexity of meaning and interpretation and reaction and invention and shades of omniscience within the simply finite arrangement of words within these pages.This book is probably the sort of thing that is best read slowly, in increments.
آدمها در «کاخ سرنوشتهای متقاطع» گنگهای خوابدیده در عالمی تمام کَرَند. یعنی در قصه گفتن کُمیتشان میلنگد. از همین است که به ورقهای تاروت رو میآورند. این کتاب کوچک و کمبرگ کالوینو را فکر میکردم که زود تمام کنم، ولی نکردم، نشد. انگار دستبهعصاییِ شخصیتهای کتاب برای بیان قصهشان به خواننده هم سرایت میکرد. من هم که خوانندهای بودم پاک بیخبر از اَشکال و بازیهای ورق تاروت، و این لابد ماجرا را پیچیدهتر هم میکرد و باعث میشد بعضی چیزهای داستان را خوب نفهمم. اما کتاب هم موجود چموشی بود و مدام رُخ تازه میکرد، ی
این کتاب کوچک و کم‌برگ کالوینو را فکر می‌کردم که زود تمام کنم، ولی نکردم، نشد.
من هم که خواننده‌ای بودم پاک بی‌خبر از اَشکال و بازی‌های ورق تاروت، و این لابد ماجرا را پیچیده‌تر هم می‌کرد و باعث می‌شد بعضی چیزهای داستان را خوب نفهمم.
اما کتاب هم موجود چموشی بود و مدام رُخ تازه می‌کرد، یک آن هزار و یک شبی می‌شد و داستان‌ها، گویی برای بقا، از پس هم می‌آمدند، آنی دیگر به هیئت فراز و فرودهای پرماجرای «اُدیسه» درمی‌آمد.
محیا بیات برای ترجمهٔ کالوینو در این کار زبان درخوری برگزیده بود که هرچند شاید بعضی اوقات با آن خوب کنار نمی‌آمدم، خیلی اوقات از آن لذت می‌بردم.
Stai pensando di vendere un rene per frequentare quel master di scrittura creativa che tanto agogni?Lascia perdere.
Per soli 8,00€ puoi avere "Il castello dei destini incrociati" di un tal Calvino che ti spiega come si fa a scrivere una storia dal nulla.
Li butti giù e ti immagini una storia.
Ma non è detto che bisogna usare per forza i tarocchi.
Insomma, qualsiasi elemento è utilizzabile affinché ne esca una storia.
Non solo quelle che dobbiamo scrivere, anche quelle già scritte.Certo ci vuole anche del talento, ma quello Calvino non ci spiega dove si possa comprare.
Forse c'è un master da frequentare.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6JiqH7...
