https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41021732-the-hippopotamus
Sadly, it was not what I expected.  GUNS AND HIPPOS DON'T MIX WELL Since I enjoyed so much reading The Gun Seller by Hugh Laurie, and due Stephen Fry is a very good friend of Laurie, and it seemed that Fry's style in novels can be quite similar to Laurie's, I thought that it could be a good idea to try some book by Stephen Fry.I think that The Hippopotamus wasn't the best first choice. And while I didn't enjoy it so much, I still want to read some other book by Fry in the future. Maybe Making H
Since I enjoyed so much reading The Gun Seller by Hugh Laurie, and due Stephen Fry is a very good friend of Laurie, and it seemed that Fry's style in novels can be quite similar to Laurie's, I thought that it could be a good idea to try some book by Stephen Fry.I think that The Hippopotamus wasn't the best first choice.
However, as I commented before, if you didn't enjoy this particular book by Fry, still you should try some other novel, at some point in the future, to have a better appreciation of his prose work.
Going into it with low expectations, I was pleasantly surprised when there was a pretty interesting plot and it was tied up rather neatly at the end.
If you are a fan of a good mystery, this is not for you.
It is really only a mystery in the broadest sense.
It's dark, biting, scathing even, but has a semi-redemptive ending.
The sex stuff in this book is a bit over the top at times.
There's a lot of disgusting stuff in here that I could imagine some people finding totally disturbing.
But I liked it a lot, personally!
The cantankerous, alcoholic, abusive, yet strangely charming hero of The Hippopotamus is clearly based on the late Kingsley Amis, and you can view the whole book as a kind of homage to him.
It's a first-person narrative; it starts off with the hero being sacked from his job as a theatre critic for yelling drunken abuse from the stalls, and before we've got to page 20 we've already had a wonderful disquisition on the worthlessness of bottled water and Italian salad greens.
The plot, though very amusing, appears to be lurching haphazardly all over the place; but, just as in Amis's novels, things are much more under control than you imagine.
I was pleasantly surprised, but then again, I have a fondness for dry British humour.I also have a fondness for anti-heroes, but they have to be intelligent and/or witty and I must empathize with them.
But that's the kind of character I like, a messy and imperfect one.There's no great character arc, which I also love.
He's a better man.The plot surprised me.
If you have any kind of hang-ups about sex, you may be disturbed by some of the scenarios (which were eyebrow-raising even for us open-minded folk).
But I like it when my literature disturbs me a little.

Unlike the usual crap balyhooed by the New York literati, this book is genuinely funny.
This is how I actually read it.The language definitely was a pleasure and, as a non-native English reader, it sent me repeatedly to the Merriam-Webster which, in fact, actually didn't always cope with the idioms.
The structure of the story allowed for a lot of small anecdotes and stories, ponderings, observations and philosophical thought, which I enjoyed greatly.
In the middle of the most mundane, even grotesque scenes the author sends his reader into deep thought.
I read it with my darling Friend Kaisa on my mind all the time.
The reader’s feeling towards the narrator, Ted, change, however, and I enjoyed how this was done – the tone and story balancing strangely between sentimentality and cynicism.And yet, just as I was thinking to myself that I was becoming positively addicted to Fry and his crazy, wordy ramblings, he threw in a perverse ‘sex’ scene which, frankly, I could have done without (it can hardly be called sex, which is impossible to understand unless you’ve read the book, and I don’t want to include a spoiler here).
It features lots of swear words, sexual references and bestiality......it is also very entertaining and kept me gripped right up to the end.
He also sounds exactly like Stephen Fry. As I read his words I just couldn’t help hearing Stephen Fry in my head.
He is to visit his old friend (her uncle) Lord Logan and report back to her on the strange things that have been going on at Swafford Hall.
I found the writing style easy to read and the story entertaining.
I particularly enjoyed the histories of the characters and the relationships between them.I totally recommend this book – but not to children, maiden aunts etc
The plot is a little weak, but you're not going to be reading and enjoying this book primarily for the plot anyway.
Not that it's bad by any stretch, it's just that what will keep you moving through the book (and like all Fry's work, it is a quick and highly enjoyable read) is the amazing faculty he has with the language.
Well worth the read.
Well, it's Stephen Fry. How can it be anything but delightful? I was pleasantly surprised to find an intriguing examination of how children come to believe things about themselves.Why aren't there more people as brilliant, witty, and elegant as Fry? Certainly in America, due to our amnesiac collective consciousness and delight in dumbness, we have a substantial dearth of anyone resembling him. If everyone listened to tapes of Stephen Fry discoursing on anything and everything for at least two hours a day, America would be a much better place. Or at least it would sound better.
Perchance a three and a half rather than a four, slightly disappointing yet enjoyable, but I couldn't rightly give this just a middling three out of five.I've read non-fiction authored by Stephen Fry before, but never one of his novels.
In style this tale - of a dodgy old hack tasked to visit family in Norfolk to investigate strange going on - felt a little Christopher Brookmyre in style, with lumps of Kingsley Amis and the like thrown in.
It was mainly amusing, occasionally hilarious, kinda clever yet a little over-smutty in places.
The denouement was a surprise and I admired the intelligence of this, and I will likely pick up other novels by the same esteemed British institution.
I keep on giving books five stars.
Well that's because I am only arsed to read stuff I am very likely to love.
With an attention span shot to shit like mine from a growing family and lack of sleep, I would be very unlikely to finish stuff I wasn't loving.
If this Italian comedian tit can muster a following for parliament, I would hazard a guess that Fry would win a general election for the Fuck the Arse Gravy World Party by a bollocking landslide, though Ted Wallace would also have a decent shot too.
I really bloody loved this book.
Easily one of the best first person narratives I've read in years.
Stephen Fry takes years of his understanding of voice in radio and television and created a hilariously withering personality.
It's so merciless that you can't help but laugh at him and recognize the deficiencies behind his various hatreds.
And it's this man who is going to examine the miracle at the center of the plot.
Surrounded by a cast of godchildren and people you wouldn't tolerate in real life, you couldn't ask for a better lens view this bizarre plot through.
Nothing makes me laugh harder on a grumpy day.
This has to be the funniest book that I have ever read. It is absolutely outrageously disgustingly funny. I kneel in the shadow of Fry's excellence.It takes a bit to get there and Fry does love waffling on and showing off how many words he knows and can invent, but bear with it. The turns and sub-plots and some of the waffling too is simply simply delightful. I am not going to go into the actual story, the lesser you know before reading the better. Suffice to say, its an absolut must read for Fry or comedy fans.........
(Well, okay, probably quite a few people, but I think he is smart, funny and tends to make me learn new things, too.)Too bad this book did not necessarily quite live up to my expectations (which, in this case, weren't over the top, luckily).
But still, it was quite nice to read a book with fancy words for a change.
Or, uh, I mean, a book with fancy words that were there for a reason other than "look what I can do!"I think I might enjoy Fry's autobiographies better than this, but this was not bad either.
I wasn't sure what to make of this to begin with, but I found it increasingly brilliant as I went along.Stephen Fry has wickedly rewritten the country house detective mystery.
Including all sorts of odd couplings, some of which are uncomfortable to think about.It's hard to work out what sort of book this is, to begin with.
Certainly the protagonist is a little off-putting in his aging drunken lechery.But we do not have to love the driver to enjoy the ride, and Stephen Fry has his characters lined out and fleshed in perfectly.
If you think that there is a discrepancy between giving a book 3 stars and placing it on the "disappointing" shelf, remember that the author is Stephen Fry, someone I think of as being awesomely smart and very funny.
Perhaps it would be more accurate to say that much of it is the kind of humor that might have flown a generation ago (think Kingsley Amis, Wilt Sharpe, Roald Dahl), but is completely jarring in 2010.
Anyway, someone as smart as Stephen Fry has to be allowed to fail once in a while.
And in the end, all of the nonsense he says and does is less important than his impact on his family and friends and the good he does for all of them.He's that voice of reason in a world that really wants to believe in impossible things.I wonder if the reason Fry makes Ted so awful in the beginning of the book is because he wants us to be on Davey's side until the end.
Don't forget that some of the best, and now, most respected works of art, literature, music and theater were considered base, vile, subversive and, dare I say it, sacrilegious in their own days and have come to be regarded as classics and mainstays of our modern times.I have not finished the book yet so I don't have a complete review but my opinion thus far: It is witty, intelligent, upbeat, existential and revealing.It is English in what most conceive to be stereotypical English...tweed, polo, tea, and fox hunts...and contemporary in it's lewdness.
This is a classic example of the superb wit and crude yet eloquent language that Fry is able to weave whilst telling a brilliant story following Ted, a down and out poetic turned theater critic who has been fired from his job and tasked by his god-daughter to solve a bit of a mystery at Swafford Hall a country house in Norfolk.
Ted's letters to Jane are highly amusing and reflect Fry's wit and humour the best and add some interesting views and analyses of the people he meets at Swafford and of David's 'gift'.
I marched womanfully into the next chapter which was charming, floridly written, tense and sympathetic as the boy sabotaged the shooting event of hundreds of pheasant for sport.
The story was slight, and reminded me of a bastardised PG Wodehouse in its archaic country house mannerisms, but rewarded the doggedly determined with an absurd ending which despite being delivered at the end of a particularly turgid stream-of-consciousness from the main character, seemed to make some sort of sense.In fact, it was pretty much like 50 Shades of Stephen Fry. And the real problem is, I've written this in a pale copy of the overblown language that he uses.
***.The author provided a new opportunity on each succeeding page for the reader to put the book down, and say, “I quit.” About one-third the way through, I did.
There is only a loose plot, with unbelievable characters , with low humor that mostly doesn’t work, plus an approach to writing that you’d expect from a Latvian English student in his second year.
Fry must not listen to people and just guesses at what they might be saying, and translates it back into Latvian and then into English.
I’m not sure why the book got so much hype, but it gets none from me.
Is there anything Stephen Fry can't do??I found this book while wandering idly through the library. First thought, "Hey, Stephen Fry wrote a book!" Second thought, "Hey, it's signed!" Third thought, "I wonder what it's about..." Since it was a library book sans dust jacket, there was no way to know, and I'm so glad. You should pick up this book and read without having an inkling of what's in store. I'll just say that it's funny, it's thrilling, it's surprising, and it's set in England.
I reread this book because it was a nice, slim paperback to take on holiday with me and because I remembered it being quite good fun, despite a slow start. It didn't disappoint me. Although I found the ending a bit rushed and the overall premise not quite to my liking, I loved the writing style. Fry never disappoints me in this respect.Not his best (that honour goes to Making History), but definitely a nice, entertaining read.
This book is narrated by a drunk, lecherous, ex-poet who you would think would get tiresome but is great company. Fry throws a group of characters into an English country house and creates the silliness of a Wodehouse story. At the mid-point, the plot is bestially perverse, but by the end it is sweet and wise.
Having never read any of his other novels, I didn’t quite know what to expect when I sat down to read this. By the end of the first sentence, I was hooked. By the end of the first page, I was in love. Fry has such a wonderful way with words that I genuinely laughed aloud at certain parts. Such a good read. I’m really looking forward to reading his others in the future.
This has to be one of the funniest novels I've ever read. Fry's work is best described as a kind of raunchy P.G. Wodehouse. And in "The Hippopotamus", there's the mystery of miracle healings to boot. Fry's second novel is incredibly witty - and filthy. Be warned. There's a horse involved. Highly recommended for fans of British humour. And a movie adaptation is being filmed.
Glumci koji pišu romane... To ne može da bude dobro, zar ne? Istina, u glavnom ne može, ali je Fraj izuzetak. "Nilski konj" je roman na mestu. Kombinujući humor (neretko crni)i hroniku engleske više klase, Fraj stvara ubedljivu priču o ljudskim naravima. Ton romana je zajedljiv, ciničan, to će odbiti neke čitaoce, baš kao i krajnje kontroverzni preokret u poslednjoj trećini.
Stephen Fry is one of the funniest writers around, in a fruity, intellectual and very British kind of way. Why did I not start reading his books years ago, since I always loved him on tv and in magazines?Being hooked now, I've immediately started reading The Liar.
