https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/903.The_Egypt_Game
Imagination time becomes compromised when a real-life murder occurs in a nearby neighborhood and their parents are reluctant to allow them outside.“Well,” April and Melanie said to each other–only just with a look, not out loud, “wasn’t that like a boy.
I particularly love the understated way April and Melanie end up become best friends without needing to label it as such.
The girls are wrapped up in the world of imagination, although they certainly have moments in school and at home where the real world intrudes.
I read it when I was 9 or 10 and I distinctly remember that it scared the pants off me!It had just the right amount of creepiness for that age—a potentially sinister man whose storage yard that the children choose to play in, a secret club that they have to protect from children who wouldn’t appreciate the intricate Egypt game, and a murderer roaming the town and making adults reluctant to turn their kids loose to play.Although I was raised in a Christian church, I had a very pagan soul as a little kid and I would have given my eye teeth to have friends who would have acted out Ancient Egyptian rituals with me!
I already had a sort of Egypt fixation when this book was read to me for the first time in 3rd grade.
But this book took that fixation to a whole new level.
For years, I read it over and over again.
It...affected me.
Because it implied that I wasn't the only dorky, bespectacled youth out there pouring over books about the mummification process (they pulled the brain out through the nose?
Strangely enough, though, not many 10 year olds had any interest in memorizing the hieroglyphic alphabet with me.
Zilpha was one of my favorite authors in the 80s.
There was John Bellairs, Judy Blume and Zilpha Synder.
Headless Cupid was my favorite book back then.
This was another great of hers.A group of neighborhood children find a building with fun stuff where they come up with a game about Egyptian gods and goddesses.
I think I need to read her and John Bellairs.
Zilpha did some good stuff and I should read of catalog.
Another project.This is still good mystery, still creepy and still really interesting with all the Egyptian references and history.
It's a fun book.
While this was an interesting story, I found the children to not behave in the manner of actual children - speaking wisely beyond their years and with adult emotions - emotions we might like them to have, but that for the most part, they do not.
Interesting to note that the NY Times Book Review (quoted on the inside cover) says the author "[presents:] contemporary children as they talk and act on their own." Yeah, I don't think so.The story, whlie interesting, is somewhat choppy.
Months are covered by a single line, then many paragraphs describe a walk of a few blocks.
Yeah, that's what I thought too.
When I first came across this book in 1975, I was seven years-old and was totally into everything ancient Egypt.
Even now, forty-something years later this book feels timeless, even with the anachronistic use of the word "negroes" (which only appears twice in the narrative) to describe Melanie and Marshall who are black.
What made The Egypt Game stand out from so many books at the time was the ethnic diversity of the characters, something the YA genre is woefully behind on even now.
Of course, that could be viewed as a plus.'Imagination is a great thing in long dull hours, but it’s a real curse in a dark alley…,' Snyder tells us, and those words are the key to a story where a darker reality, one not found in most children's books, lurks in the dusty shadows of a town not unlike Berleley, California.What you imagine is never senseless.
Snyder manages to instill something evocative and real in even the most minor of them, as well as to impart a sense of wonder about ancient Egypt and its mythology that sparked my curiosity, and made 'The Egypt Game' a good companion piece to 'The Red Pyramid.' She also tells a great story.Highly recommended.
I don't find child molestation and murder a fitting, central topic for children's books.
On top of that, it's a sad testament to the state of our current culture that the murderer can't even be recognized as a "bad guy." He is labeled as "mentally sick" and conveyed as more in need of our sympathy than judgement.
As if he was the victim and not the two children he murdered or the third he tries to nab.
I actually found it buried in a box amongst the Baby-sitters Club, Sweet Valley Twins, A Wrinkle in Time and various other books I collected in my childhood, but I'd never read this one so I decided to pick it up after I saw it listed as a banned book.
Lost and confused in a new place, dramatic and strong willed April forms a somewhat unlikely friendship with her neighbor Melanie and the two bond over a love of making up stories and reading about all things having to do with ancient Egypt.
It's fun, it moves along nicely, it has an amazingly multicultural cast that isn't belabored, and there are a few real scares in the book.
It's a very straightforward story, and most of the ending could have been predicted within the first thirty pages, as long as you also looked at the cover.
That is not the end of the world.
It merely means it's a good, fun book for kids instead of a classic that I can see adults returning to again and again.
(Or is it just me who does that?)Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
I enjoyed it and thought it was a fun story.
As they bring new kids with new ideas, into their club including even a couple of boys, The Egypt Game evolves and takes on a life of its own.The book highlights that its ok for kids of different races to intermix; that boys and girls can also learn and have fun together at the same time without being ridiculed; and that you shouldn't judge people that you don't know, based on rumors, hearsay, looks etc.My son hasn't finished reading yet so I don't have his thoughts on the book yet but I'll update later...
I proceeded to read a lot of them!Coming back to this book 4 decades later, I noticed a whole plot thread that had zipped over my innocent little head back then.
In a time when two year olds can handle their parents' tablets and smartphones to watch cartoons or play Angry Birds, I wonder if today's kids could create their own worlds like this, with only an empty lot to play in.
And yet they let their kids watch TV or go online and find much worse stuff.It was interesting how the kids created their own ceremonies etc.
"Oh, the rains haven't come...what can we do?" "Let's try this." "No--THIS." "Cool!
I was especially concerned that the way the kids treat different cultures might come across as flat or awkward or, frankly, xenophobic or bigoted.
I won't champion this book as a bastion of cultural diversity, but I think it was okay / good enough in that regard.
And the group of kids themselves are pretty diverse, right?Anyway, things I love about this book:1.
kids need to hear that shit like it is everyday-worth-talking-about and it gives this book such a good 1960s California feel.
7. the kid friendships in this book are so good.
8. the kid-adult relationships in this book are also good!
*3.75 stars*
<<< *I think This book really has a mixture of fun, sad and scary things !
It's so fantastic, how April, Melanie, Marshal, and then Elizabeth, and the two boys Toby and Ken create a society, which grows and grows.
It's great how the author makes such a mysterious character called "The Professor" by the kids, and then he presents his character as a mature adult that has a truly sad story, but he learns how to go in front by watching little kids play such a beautiful and creative game.
I also loved the end, when April, my favorite character asks Melanie, who is also such a great character, if she wants to learn about something else.
one of my favorite books of all time. i reread this religiously as a kid. recommended to anyone with a good imagination who's ever found solace in his or her fellow outcasts.
Pretty good.
I loved this book so much back in like fourth grade. Highly recommended for middle-grade readers.
Revisiting childhood reads. I loved this back then and I loved it now.
It's a unique culture from a different time, filled with pharaohs, pyramids, and mummies.
They go to the library to research it, role play pharaohs, gods, and servants.
But, while they are having fun...a murderer is on the loose who kills children.
It's filled with the children role-playing.
And, the 20 children who went to my library's book club agreed.
A book related to ancient Egyptian culture would have been more appealing if they were time-traveling to Egypt or perhaps a book about children who lived in ancient Egypt.
But, a book about kids playing doesn't cut it.
In a university town in California, two sixth grade girls named Melanie and April came up with a great idea: when they were studying ancient Egypt, they created a game called The Egypt Game.
The children asked more questions and it kept doing the same thing.
Also, when April and Marshall went to the fake temple one night to get April’s math book, someone nearly killed them.
From the children’s Egypt Game, I learned about life in ancient Egypt, such as the temples, their jewelry and clothing, and some of the gods and goddesses they worshipped.
I also think that this is a good book to read, to learn some things about ancient Egypt.
It features a cast of characters that is diverse, and a neighborhood that is a little run down and seedy, and single mothers (and grandmothers) raising their children.
Coming off the 1950s Leave It to Beaver Generation, this book would have seemed pretty edgy.I think it doesn't play as well with current audiences, however.
The first half of the book moves way too slowly and there is the question of children being allowed to run wild all day without any parental supervision.
I can't think of anything in it that is ban-worthy, except some people might think that children shouldn't be playing at worshipping Egyptian gods and goddesses.
Great book!
April was such a great character, reacting to feeling abandoned by her mother with her creative use of false eyelashes.
I love all the details about the game, with everyone using their imaginations to recreate an Egyptian temple and all the rituals.
All the relationships between the kids are so funny and true.
According to the forward in the new paperback edition, Snyder based all the characters on real kids she knew when she was working as a teacher, and it shows in how well all the characters are depicted.
I love this book!
It'd have given my imagination a great boost if I'd read it in my childhood.
However, this reminded me of the "pretend games" I myself used to play - apart from the house game where I'd be the mother or the daughter or the sister - especially the one that involved a whole universe of uber-tiny people who lived inside walls and wood (which I imagined to be hollow inside for these people to populate), and one of them, Libu, was my friend.
I especially liked the ending, even if certain parts of the book were hardly extraordinary.
One of my all time favorite books. I must have read it over 20 times and still have my well-worn copy. I was fascinated with Ancient Egypt as a child (the first job I ever dreamed about having was an Egyptologist) and I dreamed of having a group of friends with which to play an imagination game like this with, but none of my friends had as much of an interest in Egypt as I had. I ended up decorating my room with Egyptian knick knacks that I'd find at random stores and get as gifts instead.
This book from my childhood still holds up, and makes me wish I had a special "Egypt" I could escape to with my friends. Reading as an adult, I was more appreciative of the racially diverse group of friends and the little insights into friendship dynamics but I couldn't help but identify more with the adults! There is a murderer on the loose, kids, please don't sneak out to an abandoned lot in the middle of the night!
Very good! I love the suspense and mystery the author gave me. I kept wanting to read more and more. It sure was a page-turner. It intrigued me to read more of her books. I would have never thought that "orange haired, speckled, old man" was the murderer and behind all the crime scenes. I'm happy Egypt isn't gone forever. Overall, it is defiantly be one of my favorite books so far.
I remembered reading this in 6th grade and not liking it/thinking it was very weird, but not remembering anything else about it. So when it came to my head the other day, I grabbed it from the library. Turns out I was right. It was weird/not good. :)
All small people should read this book. I was obsessed with this in 4th grade, when I was sure I was going to grow up to be an archeologist. The book convinces kids that history is awesome. Which it is.
A ragtag group of children form a secret society, complete with an oracular statue, in an abandoned lot. To this day, I eye abandoned lots in the hopes of having my own Egypt Game.
