https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222388.The_Lime_Twig
The Lime Twig is a burning ball of lucid terror engulfed in an exquisite, nebulous narration that leaves the reader feeling beset by the very events on page as we witness the characters’ own desires and fears lead them to the slaughter.Although Hawke’s novel is difficult—demanding the readers full, constant attention and willingness to decipher the intricate fragments of a world seemingly going mad around them—his ability to create a powerful, rhythmic prose that dances like smoke across this vivid landscape of violence and betrayal will clutch the reader by the throat and ensure that they can’t imagine even wanting to do anything less than fully submit and commit.
What remain before our eyes at all times are the words, hard-edged and cutting, words which gather themselves inward and bare their claws, which are small and ancient and stained with blood, words which stand in short, carefully structured sentences and demand recognition, fealty.
It is not the Dream but the thing seen through the Dream, the black shape glimpsed from the corner of the minds-eye, the un-remembered darkness that wakes us into sweat and twisted sheets.
I do not know where Hawkes goes, in the great scheme of things, who his predecessors and successors are.
What he is doing is hard and important, and his prose technique is impeccable.
I'm not sure what the hell I read, but I think I love it.
I do not crack spines, books are held at an appropriate distance from me, I provide a serious contemplative look or can when requested a swooned dive descent lost in the book appearance (SDDLBA) in the Reading As Performance manual, P.83.What happened was that Hawkes floated important clues, but clues to what at the time, wrapped in his reward -in itself -high -language -prose, (RIIHLP P.24) These clues originated organically out of the text, the style, the Dickensian events and sexual tension setting the narrative in motion.
"You suffer The Lime Twig like a dream.
And wouldn't you know it I opened The Lime Twig and strong sensations as if the book people were putting their hands on my head.
Resist sleep, withstand dreams.
I could have been standing in their closets and holding my breath that they wouldn't overhear me catching my breath for what was going to happen.
Fear of that nightmare corridor or whatever dream cliche that you cannot stop yourself from having every night.
I didn't want to leave the closet.
They could have forced me on my kness and burned my head off with the smell of limes.
Anything beyond this level of knowledge from the cover and book blurb represents a spoiler, so it’s best to avoid reading a lot of reviews or the book’s introduction.
The read works best to experience the brilliance of its cinematic unfolding in a series of vignettes.
Amongst all this nefarious unfolding of evil, little elements of humanity by some of the characters stand out like a beacon in the dark.
For unless the horror we live is real, there is no point to our lives; and it is to writers like Hawkes that we turn from the wholesale slaughter on T.V. to be convinced of the reality of what we must fear.
(It won't even take that long to read, it's short and goes pretty quick even though it's elaborate prose, so you know, you'll have plenty time left in the day to trash that waiter from that pricey restaurant on YELP.) But then someone would call me a fan-boy or say I'm not pure objective uncut critical cocaine, that I'm not looking enough for cracks and flaws in the enjoyment Hawkes has brought me here, if I go raving like some idiot about how good this book is.
A Film Clings to Each PageI can't help but think of John Hawkes' novel in filmic terms.Film often starts with a treatment or a script, developed by one writer, but after it, the film becomes a collaborative work.This is a highly visual work that moves with the dynamic and momentum of film.
It belongs to a tradition that extends from American B-movies to French new wave film and English crime a la the 1947 filmisation of Graham Greene's "Brighton Rock" (also about horse-racing-related crime) and reaches out into the future, perhaps, even as far as Quentin Tarantino and Guy Ritchie.The novel seems to reverse the sequence of film production.
Firstly, it seems there can't be a Lime Twig review minus a Gass* quote.My excuse is that mine is different & germane to the text because it highlights the most striking feature of this book: its highly visual prose.In reading what the character sees, the reader sees; but what the reader sees, of course, is not the thing but a construction.
You almost walk the rain & debris-sodden dingy lanes of post-war London, smell its musty, cramped, working class quarters- such a contrast of rough & drab lives described in lush sensual pictorial prose!Reading The Lime Twig is like watching a highly stylized movie: comparisons have been drawn to the Lynchian territory—that no-man's land between sleeping & waking states, to the staggered narratives, elliptical & ambiguous presentation of the French New Wave.
Yeah, he does that, but he doesn't really go very far in making what I would consider a novel that really pushes the envelope towards some kind of literary vision.
I have all kinds of other things on my mind and maybe my real life trumps wanting to decipher a difficult book, but I don't think if I was in my most pretentious and open to difficult books I would have found a hook into this novel that I could have opened it up and found something that got me intellectually into it.
An elliptic cime novel, a deterioration, a dream (this last from Flannery O'Connor, so strange to think of her and Hawkes as peers in some way) which can only be suffered, endured.It seems inevitable, reading Hawkes, that I should reflect on is famous claim to care nothing for plot, character or theme.
As with the other two of his novels I've read, this gives very little evidence that he actually cared nothing for these, but much evidence that he wished to elevated the raw uninterpreted image over all three as the basic unit of story construction.
We see only partial events, the story runs off the page before and after the book bindings.
In The Lime Twig, as in a dream, the reader is never sure of his or her footing.
One moves ahead tentatively, trepidatiously.
It's rather astonishing the intensity of suspense Hawkes is able to sustain.
Hawkes's talent for picking out the most vivid details when, say, describing a track crowd is stunning.
He moves with dazzling facility from one puzzling scene to the next.
You're never quite sure what anyone wants.
Hawkes's Wikipedia page calls him a postmodernist.
The erotic penultimate scene I found harrowing, exhausting.
The Lime Twig does the job in a mere 175 pages.
Hawkes' ability to sculpt word images is incredible, and he makes use of that prowess to weave a tapestry of fractured nightmares herein—jarring sequences of confusingly textured existential upheaval in which nothing can be remotely classified as hale or good, but possesses itself of a sickly, manic sheen.
That is not, in itself, a too serious problem, for the set pieces comprising Hawkes' storied vision are daubed in hues and shadows that leave each such vignette capable of being both independently admired and slotted into its place within the whole.
I wish there was a better term than "experimental fiction" to describe those wondrous works that attempt to put the novel back in novel. LitCrit Leslie Fiedler, in his intro to this book, writes about the joys of reading Hawkes and the author's great success in the realm of experimentalism fiction. Just by definition the word experiment denotes the possibility of success / failure, which is why this is a poor tag to stick on this book. For this is then experimental fiction that  works , and I me
I wish there was a better term than "experimental fiction" to describe those wondrous works that attempt to put the novel back in novel.
LitCrit Leslie Fiedler, in his intro to this book, writes about the joys of reading Hawkes and the author's great success in the realm of experimentalism fiction.
Just by definition the word experiment denotes the possibility of success / failure, which is why this is a poor tag to stick on this book.
For this is then experimental fiction that 
You just gotta believe.If asked to describe this book I would first probably give a nod to the way he describes Hawkes' writing:
I have no idea quite what I've just read - but that it gripped me somewhere deep inside....
After reading the introduction, I worried that it might be a little too avant for my garde: “[Hawkes provides] daylight access to those waste places of the mind from which no one can be barred at night, which the least subtle visit in darkness and unknowing…for the places he defines are the places in which we all live between sleeping and waking” (ix) and “[The Lime Twig] finally avoids the treacherous lucidity of the ordinary shocker” (x).
Finally, feeling fully equipped to foray into a nightmare, I started the book.The first chapter (or the unnumbered chapter before “Chapter 1”) is great.
The story is dark, graphic and pitiless.At first John Hawkes seems to be nearly tongue-tied but soon enough his phrases coalesce into surreal wordscapes and the tale becomes enthralling.“Beyond the lights of crossings it was dark, the trees bent away from the train, and Margaret felt the wobbling tracks running over the ties, and each tie crushed under the wheels became a child.
Then the steam lay behind on the tracks and the toads returned.”It is like The Triumph of Death by Pieter Bruegel…Reality slowly disintegrates and on the way it takes along human lives.
There are no neat pages of explanation at the end.) A couple of re-reads of the most relevant passages will suffice to tie things up, and unlike most mystery authors, Hawkes does very little in the way of stopping the reader from recognizing the major foreshadowing or clue-dropping as it happens.
And yes, despite all that, the book still reads as if the reader has taken a rather large dose of laudanum before sitting down.As with most New Directions books, there is a core of critics who feel John Hawkes is the best thing for the mystery genre since, and perhaps before, sliced bread.
Moving through the fog of its pages, just when you think you've got a handle on where you are, who is present and what is going on in story, your comprehension is frustrated in some way--this happens time after time and, as others have noted, makes following the book rather a challenge.
This momentum is primarily generated through Hawkes's use of language; his skill as a writer so evident that reading his book is a pleasure, even if you can get swept up in it (I remain confident that this is by design).
John Hawkes is one of them.
Children were tied down the length of track: she saw the toads hopping off their bodies at the first whisper of wheels, the faint rattling of oncoming rods and chains, and she saw the sparks hitting the pale heads and feet.
Then the steam lay behind on the tracks and the toads returned.”I couldn’t tell you why Hawkes’ prose and imagery moves me the way it does, but its illusiveness is one of the great gift to letters in my estimation.
It’s electric, I can tell you that much, and I am thrummed by its ohms.
Between its covers you will find the germ of much that came after: Pynchon, Lynch and many more who deign to turn from the light and confront the sickness, the fear that resides in us all.
The Lime Twig is still my favorite and represents a turning point in his style.
I often tell people who are timid about reading the moderns and postmoderns that they should be encouraged by the Brobdingnagian portions of humor in the pages of Joyce, Pynchon et al.
We cannot avail ourselves of similar encouragement when it comes to Hawkes.
Been reading a lot of Bill H Gass.)
This book is like a puzzle where youre trying to figure out what the hell is going on in each scene before it ends
As I was reading The Lime Twig, I kept on having distinct visuals which correspond to the images I associate with film noir, of which I am a devotee and have viewed and viewed repeatedly many of the primary texts of the genre.
The richness of language of this novel was a sweet treat indeed and worked to create a mood that virtually transformed the black images of the text and the white paper on which it was printed into the moody environs of the bleakest of film noir sets.
The stylized prosed worked to create a world where noir elements thrive, a fertile garden for the fetid and base desires of humans is played out to their self destructive ends.
While featuring Hawkes' incredible prose, The Lime Twig left me feeling kind of cold, perhaps because it seems so insular.I could be missing the point here, but the book reads like a creative writing exercise, with Hawkes' teacher giving him an assignment to write an unconventional, postmodern heist novel.
The prose is wonderful, and the traditional heist story is told is an unconventional way.But what's the big deal?If the story were about something other than its own structure, then I would have appreciated it more.
But books that are this insular need something to save them.I have a gut feeling that The Cannibal is the best Hawkes I'll ever find.
I usually don't review the books I read for college back in the distant mists of time, but this one stuck out as being horrible. Not only did the time/setting hold no interest for me, but I had no idea what was going on, didn't care, and neither did the class. :D
John Hawkes stuns w/sensuality, whether his subject is quotidian greasy-fingered tinkering -- the material of this bruising fantasia on the British crime story from 1961, more or less about fixing the races & destroying a marriage --or a spectacle that comes along about as often as the Burning Man. Indeed, you could say THE LIME TWIG brings Burning Man to the drip & drear of postwar London, so that even the beating of a kidnapped woman fascinates, w glinting humor & indirections that prove, always, just revealing enough.
I enjoyed my first by Hawkes, but suspect this is not his best.
It most certainly reminded me of Greene's Brighton Rock, what with the unsavory English underground characters and the gritty life of amateur gangster life.
This I did not mind, and the characters and life of late 40's / 50's poor English life was excellent.
Ultimately, thought, the blending of reality and fantasy was a tad distracting and not entirely worth the cleverness.
But I always believe that if my reading was not sharp it has something to do with the novel itself.
I don't get Horror.
I mean I read House of Leaves and enjoyed it as a work of experimental literature without a serious inkling that it could also be pegged as horror until I read some of the reviews here on GR.
Apparently it's a book about the terror that lurks behind everyday life.
Or just what I call everyday life...It's language and overall stylistic tone of blurry/shadowy/nebulous reality are what appeals.
It read British not American and to sustain that over the length of a novel I thought admirable.But horror?
No, just a good read.
". . .something they couldn't show on films."That William Gass has named Hawkes' The Lime Twig one of his Fifty Literary Pillars is reason sufficient to read this little crime story. For my money, the more interesting contribution by Hawkes to the High Modernism of the 1950's is his The Cannibal.
A surreal, avant-garde novel melded with pulp crime fiction. (Many a review describes it as something like Dick Francis meets David Lynch.) The basic story—a race horse heist gone horribly wrong—is told in nightmarish, impressionistic sequences. The cover of the book, featuring a grainy, blurry mess of images that only come into focus when you really concentrate, is a pretty apt translation of my experience of the book.
