https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34283.Power_of_Three
(view spoiler)[I've never found it very plausible that two adult British staid government-types would follow a bunch of strange, possibly nonhuman children to the bottom of a lake to meet with a king who lives in the caverns below.
Not for so long that you feel cheated - readers are able to figure out what's going on before Gair, Ayna, and Ceri can - but long enough that the feeling of a particular type of fantastic world has settled into the bones of the story.In that way, I think, this is the most fey thing Diana Wynne Jones has ever written.
When their home, Garholt, is invaded by Dorig, Ayna, Gair and Ceri escape and find help among some Giant children, then make alliance with some Dorig children, and ultimately find a way to break the curse that's been driving the three groups apart.None of the above is true.The events of the story play out as I've described.
Diana Wynne Jones' Power of Three is, if memory serves me correct, the first book I ever owned.
It no longer smells of applesauce, but I remember pressing my face into the book for the smell.
I probably don't need to tell you this, given how many people on my flist have Diana Wynne Jones listed as an interest.
This book fills me with joy in the same way that Darwyn Cooke's New Frontiers does: it's a story of human endeavour, and possibilities.
I believe it may actually cure cancer.The theme of the book is making peace.
It's interesting reading most of a body of work in publication order like this, for all I have been familiar with these books for years. This again feels a step closer to what I most associate Diana's writing with, and indeed I think Charmed Life - where it all *really* started - is next up. I could do without the way body size is handled, but it was after all the seventies.
I'm not sure I've ever seen someone do such a good job of creating fantastical non-human species with such powerful differences from, as well as similarities to, humans.For some time, it's easy to assume that Gair and his people are humans, of a sort, living in a fantasy world with the Dorig and Giants.
Then, there are things that actually come from truth:Dorig kids: Yeah, well, Lymen eat caterpillars!Giant kids: Is that true?Lyman kids: *Thinking* Of course we do, let me tell you about -Giant kids: Because BLARGH that would be HORRIFYINGLY DISGUSTING.Lyman kids: NO, WE DEFINITELY DO NOT.Like a lot of myths and fairy tales, this story is sometimes unexpectedly dark.
I love how Jones sets the story in the world that we live in, and that magic is everyday and ordinary, and that the three different folk—Lymen, Dorig, and Giants—all insist that they are people and the others aren’t, and that they all think that what the others do is magic.Reading this again made me realise that one of my all-time favourite tropes is that of the loner/misfit/outsider.
This book has that trope in spades, with Gair who thinks he’s ordinary in a family of gifted people, but who in fact is extraordinary in his own right.Wonderful, wonderful book.
The elements are there, but they're not harnessed with the brilliance especially found in her works published in the 80s'.Cute.
I kind of feel the same I felt about Hexwood – it was okay, but nothing remarkable, and the last quarter just made me want to finish it off as quickly as possible.I am probably being a little harsh with my rating because I expect a lot from every DWJ book I pick up – because, really, what can else could you do after such masterpieces as Fire and Hemlock and Archer's Goon – but this was really just another okay-ish book to me and no more.Extra points for a great plot-twist though, (view spoiler)[low fantasy masked as high fantasy, nice and well done.
I have yet to come across a Diana Wynne Jones book that I haven't liked.
Her books are humorous, thoughtful, and they are well-planned from beginning to end.
This story was no different.
Power of Three follows the story of three different races–the people, the Dorig, and the giants–as they all share the Moor on which they live.
One of the people is cursed by a Dorig, and it causes tremendous troubles for everyone.
And at its core, it's a rather sweet story about understanding each other.
I recommend this book to anyone.
3 different peoples are living on the moor. The Giants (humans) don't really know about the fairies?, Lyman?, or the Dorig? The Dorig and Lyman have a combative history, though not all of both people feel that it needs to be that way. Then there is the threat to all of the people living on the moor...
Wanted to read this after reading Beth's review.I liked it. The characters were really strong. I was a little confused figuring out the world at the beginning, but that might be on me.
Hmno... not what I expected. For the first 100 pages or so, this book was brilliant, but it just failed to keep me interested. I find it hard to explain why, can't pinpoint it, but I really had trouble finishing it.
So moving and such great messages. One of the few books worth reading over and over again.
I loved this. I wish I had found this author nearer to my Brian Jacques and C.S. Lewis age.
It's been a while since I last read it, but I remembered quite a bit - enough that the plot twists and misunderstandings didn't fool me this time.
The 'three' in the title could refer to the three Lymen children's powers or the combined powers of the three races, and possibly something else that I missed.
But he is the one who wants to learn, who goes out and does things, and who eventually helps bring peace and agreement to the three races.
The interactions of the various siblings of all three races are very realistic brother-sister-bickering.
There is also a bit of emphasis on bullying, both among the various siblings and from outside.
A well-written story with engaging characters and an interesting ending. Gair is a thoughtful child, feeling and thinking deeply. I enjoyed following this well-realised emotional journey. Wynne Jones adds deep insight and a light humorous touch to a fantasy story which is really about learning to communicate with others and understand yourself. Some aspects of the gender roles are rather dated: it is notable that the boy characters are treated as more central and the girl characters are either perfect or treated as irritating. Brenda kicks through the condescension of the narrative to be my hero of the novel.
I liked this a lot. The narration is wonderful, between fairy-tale and children's story but never simple, always with so much between the lines. The characters are great, especially the siblings and friendships, and so are the different cultures and how they all relate to each other. The stakes were high, but for some reason overall this still felt like a very nice read, very hopeful.
A really lovely, gripping book by Diana Wynne Jones!
I adored this one, a personal favourite. The little surprises are charming, and the teamwork and developing friendships of the characters are a joy.
It's not a bad book, but it's not one of her best. It's still a good read. The ending is a little abrupt.
While out for a walk one day, Adara's brother kills a Dorig. And the dying dorig places a curse on a gold collar. This story is about how the curse affects everyone who lives on the moor - dorig, lyman and giant's all.
I am a big fan of DWJ and this book has so many of the things I love best about her writing – an ordinary seeming child in an extraordinary situation, interesting family dynamics, the natural world, magic and a storyline that isn’t afraid to dig deep and ask important questions.Gair is the middle child, born of a hero and a famous wisewoman, his older sister, Ayna, has the Gift of prophecy while his younger brother Ceri can find anything people ask him to.
It doesn’t, but only because Gair has enormous self-esteem issues.Yet this book is about more than just Gair and his family; it’s also about the Moor on which they live and the dangerous Dorig that are the enemy of Gair’s people.
22 Feb-28 Feb 2017
However, he gets stuck in a feud between his people and the Dorig, little knowing that he and his siblings are being drawn into a war that started when his parents were children.This is my favorite kind of fantasy book.
I love how brave Gair and his siblings are in exploring new things and being willing to accept new truths, mirroring the hope many of us have for our young people to have open minds and be brave enough to point out the flaws in the adults’ ways of thinking.The worldbuilding is absolutely fantastic, but I expected nothing less from the queen of young adult fantasy, and the storytelling is just exquisite.
Twelve-year-old Gair, middle and most ordinary child of famous parents, has been brought up to fear and hate the other two peoples who live on the Moor: the water-dwelling, shape-shifting Dorig and the warring Giants with their strange magic.
The tone is great too: the realism and humour of the character voices melded with a more folkloric kind of world than DWJ often writes reminded me a bit of Alan Garner’s The Weirdstone of Brisingamen or Lloyd Alexander’s Prydain books.The tone is the problem, though, because it can’t support the introduction of the Giants, when they come in.
Powerful Giants, with extraordinary magical machines, clumsily roam the land, while silent Dorig, who possess devious shape-shifting abilities, terrify anyone unlucky enough to happen upon them.Then there are, as they call themselves, "the People" and it is among them that this story takes place.
It is not that the story was bad until that point, just that I felt Gair's problems were more those of a typical adolescent and I didn't care about that part of the story (being far past that point myself).This is another Wynne Jones book that is different in feel and plot from the others I've read.
It was the first book of Diana Wynne Jones that I actually bought which then began my long love affair.
A very long one which should say something as Jones' books were never what I would ever call an easy read.
A slow starting one.Only, instead of throwing the book saying; "I've had it!", I actually found myself reading it.
Soon, you found yourself thrown into the excitement and the adventure began before you could grab a hold, it's like a huge tidal wave, you crashed.Not a bad crash, a good one.
I originally reviewed this book on my blog - The Cosy Dragon.
Although the reader will know from the beginning that things are not right, and where the curse has come from, it is not clear how things can be set right, or even if they can be.There are a variety of characters which is nice, with the majority of focalisation through Gair.
It meant that even with all of Gair's bad feelings, I knew what was going to happen, and I couldn't dread it properly.This was a fast read for me, but no doubt will be a little more challenging for its target audience.
There are not really any elements that separate The Power of Three from some of my absolute favorite Diana Wynne Jones novels (the Chrestomanci novels, among many others come immediately to mind).
And with that in mind, it is really amazing how consistently enjoyable I find her work when The Power of Three shows how easily such disparate parts can fail to cohere.
That the nature of this magic in his world and the personality of Gair himself don’t particularly tie into the resolution of the central conflict result in me feeling like it’s all a little bit of useless set up.
Also, as plot-twists-that-unveil-the-allegorical-meaning go, it’s a little transparent and straightforward.
Dorig live in the water and can change shape.
There was a person who killed a dorig for his necklace and as he was dying he cursed the necklace, and then there was a whole boring section about how now there are three kids and they are special but one doesn’t think he’s special.
The three kids hide in some water for a while.
Eventually they turn to giants for help.
If someone were to read this they could be fourth grade on up though I think that children now would find this book a struggle to get through.
The story continues to grow the main characters maturity levels by having them experience situations in which they have had to face the actual surprising reality that, in fact, the other races think the same of their own race, and that actually, all the races were all 'people' really, with ten fingers on two hands, ten toes on two feet..
Regardless of the serious notes in the book, i still enjoyed reading it, as i do with all DWJ's books, and i understood that children/young adults must, after all, learn these important things somehow, so why not in fantasy books, once in a while.
