https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420427.The_Sherwood_Ring
Uncle Enos forcefully (and mysteriously!) orders Pat off the property when they arrive, but Pat has no intentions of giving up so easily, especially since he's attracted to Peggy.As Peggy settles in to her new home, she meets a few more of her ancestral ghosts, who tell her very amusing and engaging stories about their lives during Revolutionary War times.
These stories, not incidentally, help Peggy to solve the problems in her own life, including the mystery of Uncle Enos's antagonism toward Pat, and to find happiness and love.
Seventeen-year-old Peggy Grahame is sent to live with her only living relative, cold Uncle Enos.
One is a dashing English lad named Pat, who is determined to woo Peggy despite her uncle's mysterious grudge against him.
So why are they here, and what do they want with Peggy?This is one of, if not the, most delightful books I've read so far this year.
The plot is a winning mix, half a paranormal mystery, half a historical romance with a generous dollop of swashbuckling.
Yet the war part is still exciting, and Sherwood and Barbara could start a forest fire in Washington State just by making eye contact.
For years I was convinced I had read this book.
Soon I began to suspect that I had indeed read it before, and two thirds of the way through -- Barbara's story -- it was confirmed.
This was the book I had been thinking I had read!
Barbara Grahame's father and brother join the independence efforts and send her to stay with her awful, hypochondriac old aunt, who does nothing but bully and abuse her.
I think one reason I liked Barbara's story best is that she is the only woman who does anything other than pine and get married.
It isn't a perfect book, sure, but the charms far outweigh minor dragging by time's end.
Pope's only other work, The Perilous Gard, is absolutely perfect in my eyes.
I loved Peaceable Sherwood, the English soldier, and his awesomely cunning off the cuff style of life.
It's sitting with your favorite story and opening the pages and they talk back to you.How would I describe this book to a Mariel who has not read it?
It's just that one part felt like talking to someone in an old folk's home who gives you their life history in its entirety.
Sometimes, one-liner reviews just have to suffice. What a fantastic book this was! Nice plotline with plenty to entertain, good characters and pacing, just like YA fiction should be.
OK, this book is the subject of my new personal crusade. It's the greatest completely unknown book aimed at the "Young Adult" group. My 3 brothers, 2 sisters and I all grew up loving this book and read it many, many, many times. It was a really big deal when we discovered Alibris and we all bought used copies to give to our kids. NO, IT'S NOT ABOUT ROBIN HOOD. It's a ghost story, historical mystery, romance, character study with parallel stories set in the American Revolution and mid-twentieth century America. Get it. Read it. Give it to your kids!
A True, True  Treasure.
Easy read and delightful multiple tale fare as you seldom (no, NEVER) see written in the present market.
It's filled with young people who are healthy, tops in mind/spirit/self-identity and who cleverly traipse through difficult times in a joyous and remarkably KIND manner.
Actually WITH manners on top of it.Liked all the tales of the past and the one in the present.
But integrity, confidence, inspirational spirit, and aspiration toward affinity and a joyful life in the future are bottom line believed by the various under characters.
They got the ring, didn't they?
The peace treaty got signed.
Lovely, gentle read.
I like Elizabeth Marie Pope's writing.
There's a bit of the same thing in it that I enjoyed so much in Mary Stewart's work -- an old fashioned air that somehow promised everything would come right in the end.It unfolds at its own pace, so be prepared to be patient even when things seem thoroughly obvious.
There are strong and capable female characters, which helps, but the changing point of view does not help at all.
Still, you get to know the characters, to want more of them, to want things to work out right for everyone.
I loved this book and immediately went out and specially ordered my own copy after I'd finished the library's, because I knew I'd be reading it again and again.
Interspersed with these is Peggy's own story and romance whilst she tries, with the information provided by the ancestor's stories, to uncover a mystery in her family's past that concerns the uncle she is now living with.Three great romances and the unbelievably drool-worthy character of the witty, ingenious and clever Peaceable Sherwood make this overlooked novel from the fifties a must-read!
Peacable Sherwood is a delight, an eighteenth century Lord Peter Wimsey who says things like "Will you mind very much if I run myself into serious difficulties now and again after we are married, just for the pleasure of seeing you rise to the occasion?" I loved reading about how each outwitted the other, and the relationships between Peacable and the Grahames are wonderfully complicated.
(view spoiler)[They meet three times, each for about five minutes, never have a substantive conversation, and on their third meeting he says something along the lines of, "I'm telling you now that we're going to get married, so you'll have time to get used to the idea." What a fantastic idea!
However, it was written by Elizabeth Marie Pope and as I love The Perilous Gard I gave it a go.
Into this loneliness enter four ghosts from her family's past from the time of the Revolutionary War. As they share thier stories Peggy's present situation begins to take on new and interesting forms.I was suprised at how much I loved this book and how engrossed I became in the lives of the characters, particularly the four dead ones.
It makes the reader think of the Revolutionary War in terms of the lives living it rather than the battles and dates that have historically marked it.The character of Peaceable Sherwood is my number one reason for falling in love with the book though.
One of those "not what I expected even though I hadn't consciously formed expectations" books. I didn't realize it was mostly about ghosts telling stories. But I liked it!I wish the modern day romance had been more developed, which isn't all that fair of me because I was into Barbara/Peaceable, which was also pretty undeveloped. But I like what I like!
This is one of those books that I'm sad I didn't read earlier in my life, because I wasted all those years not having read it. If you like excellent writing, old manor houses, history, spunky young people, ghosts (nice ones), or just a good story, you'd probably like this book. What are you waiting for?
DNF: 30% This book was on my want to read list since ever I had become a member of this site... but the problem is that I find it extremely boring.The story follows an orphan girl that moves in the house of his uncle but the problem is that the propriety is haunted.
As a young teen, I loved this romance with its lonely heroine, family ghosts, and American Revolutionary history, and I was delighted to rediscover its mysteries, charm, and humor. This edition has the original illustrations.
It's been years since I first heard of this classic YA novel about a young woman learning the thrilling history of her family's experiences in the American War for Independence firsthand from their ghosts, as she tries to untangle her own present-day historical mystery.
After that it took me a good few months to actually get around to reading the thing, but I'm so glad I finally did.The Sherwood Ring is one of those rare books that actually lives up to its reputation.It's short, but it's no longer than it needs to be.

Just because THE PERILOUS GARD is possibly the greatest YA novel ever written, I came away from this book feeling very disappointed.
The tough, hard-edged, practically Film Noir tone of THE PERILOUS GARD apparently did not come naturally to Elizabeth Marie Pope.
This early book is mushy and somewhat sentimental, not only about the love story but about the American colonial era itself.
But you can forgive all that if you reflect that Elizabeth Marie Pope was probably a very lonely spinster type and had a dark, brooding masterpiece deep inside of her that hadn't yet come out.THE PERILOUS GARD is the MOBY DICK of historical-girl-coming-of-age novels.
I just loved this book as a ten year old. Ghosts, codes, secret passages, masquerades with dangerous searches going on---the ending was a tad disappointing, but everything up to then was a thrill to my ten year old self.
4.5 stars. How delightful! This is exactly the kind of old-fashioned historical fiction for young people that I most enjoyed growing up. I wish I'd found it when I was twelve, but better late than never. It's even in the typeface that makes me most nostalgic! It's going right onto My Own Personal Classics shelf.
Newly orphaned Peggy Graham has lived her entire life 'staying out of the way.' With her Father's death, she is sent to live with her Uncle Enos at the family's ancestral estate RestandBeThankful.
Each characters takes a turn relating their story, adding to the plot and eventual mystery for Peggy is discovering that RestandBeThankful may have other mysteries besides ghosts....I LOVE this bok.
I've read it at least 20 times, and each new experience has added to my pleasure.
Colonial history, spies, intrigue, mystery, love!
The characters were so entertaining, especially Peaceable.
Sherwood doesn't seem human, he's like unreal and absurd but so killing awesome.
Eugenides however we get to know more and so we see his human side.
The characters were all clever and entertaining.
The romance between Peggy and Pat did seem to launch quite quickly seeing as how most of the story wasn't even focused on them.
It worked however since much of the same thing happened with Peaceable and Pat, as well as their personalities.
Ahhh...Enchanting...."Quod desidero obtineo"The only problem I have with this book is that I wish that I could get to know Sherwood and Barbara more.
Revisiting a childhood favorite can be treacherous, but this one -- and Elizabeth Marie Pope's only other book The Perilous Gard -- holds up over the years.
Also, I think I can trace my love of a certain type of hero (impeccably mannered, devastatingly competent, more than a little dangerous) to Peaceable Sherwood.
I like to think that my bibliography and biography intersect at certain points, and The Sherwood Ring is one of these.A friend who knew Elizabeth Marie Pope told me she had two more books planned.
I didn't expect to like it-- being historical fiction and all-- but I thoroughly fell in love with Peaceable Drummond Sherwood.
I wasn't even that into the modern part of the story, or really any of the others from the past, for that matter, but I find it impossible to express how many times I would've died to be the clever Barbara Grahame, just for Sherwood.
Picture him like Robin Hood, only more evil, self-serving, clever, romantic, and with more flair.
<33333 Friends, before you start beating me over the head with anti-love potions and rolling your eyes, I suggest you read it.
Just don't steal my Sherwood.
This book was on my school reading list every year and I always wanted to read it, but it was out of print and not available anywhere - until I stumbled across a copy in a bookstore on Nantucket.I love it. It's old fashioned, and sedately paced, and goes back and forth between past and present which usually I hate, but I DON'T CARE ABOUT ANY OF THAT.I love it anyway.It's quite a gem, and I cherish my copy of it.
I'm not confident I can write a full review without accidentally using enthusiastic emojis, so I will just say this: Positively delightful story about the American Revolution and romance. Bonus if you like uncomfortable ancestral homes up North and/or if you're an Anglophile. This book is tea, not coffee, and I loved it.
What fun! I can't believe I'd never heard of this book before. I stand by my earlier statement that it's like a blend of Cold Comfort Farm and The Scarlet Pimpernel (or maybe those Lauren Willig ones, but G-rated) but about the American Revolution.
One of my all time favorite books, this is about orphaned teen Peggy, who goes to live with her somewhat grumpy historian uncle. At first lonely, she soon begins to make friends with the locals - and with local ghosts.
Actual rating 3.5 BEWARE: this is a slightly spoilery review...This was a very enjoyable read. I loved the ghost stories best of all - the actual story of Peggy and Pat I wasn't that crazy on. It was okay, but I felt that their relationship was kinda... rushed. I mean, they shared ONE CAR JOURNEY TOGETHER. I know that's sort of the same with Barbara Grahame and Peaceable Sherwood but at least they shared a good long afternoon together, one on one. All this said it was a fun read and I would recommend you reading it. :D
