https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15320.Exquisite_Corpse
Probably because I'm a leetle bit embarrassed - okay, more than a leetle bit embarrassed - to have read it at all.
I remember reading this on a jolly family holiday in Dorset, a short walk away from Thomas Hardy's cottage.
Georgia was making sandcastles and bouncing on trampolines and there was I reading about gay serial killers who eat their victims and then each other.
Kind of book a 17 year old goth boy would write.
So this is a novel recommended to all 15 year old goth boys.
Oh, wait, that’s right, you might want to leave this off the bedtime reading list, this book is indeed about the extremely carnal courtships between two ridiculous couples; one pair is a recently-acquainted duo of gay murderers that feast on the cooling flesh of their victims in whatever way suits their unspeakable ends, and the other couple are two drug-addled queer fiends tiptoeing through the treacherous terrain of a generation either infested with or constantly beset by the dread AIDS virus, basically, the kind of forgettable and unwanted byproducts of society that we’re more than happy to provide as sacrificial lambs to the niche-market players like the former couple.
Favorite book of all time.
I read the jacket and was intrigued by the serial killer meets serial killer plot.
But when I opened it and saw that the author dedicated the gruesome book to her mom I had to get it.
Some of the most shocking things I have ever read.
The things that the author Poppy Z.
Brite describes in the book were unimaginable when I first read it.
But the best part of the book is that it isn’t just some shock thriller.
I have let a few people borrow the book and most could not finish it.
Gore's just not my thing; I'm more of a psychological terror guy.
This book is quite scary psychologically, but it also revels in blood and guts and feces.
I would love to discuss this book (and how it impacted me) more than what is possible in a public review.
I closed this book feeling excessively sick, which I'm pretty sure is what the author was going for.
I kept a running tally of how many times my stomach turned from the book's first chapter to the last.
The folks who populate Exquisite Corpse's pages are vile and revel in it.
Its main effect was reminding me of the days when I did autopsies, 80 or so over a year's time as a 1st year pathology resident.
The main effect of this novel for me was reminiscence, especially of the discomfort of the 1st few autopsies and of places and people I had forgotten.
It was an interesting time.What the book did not do was give me any understanding of why or how the protagonists' behaviors satisfied their sexual and emotional needs.
An exploration in depth of these possibilities, giving the characters more dimension, could have made this a great book for those interested in such dysfunction.
i read the ultra-dark gothic erotic thriller exquisite corpse for the first time in a mad 24-hour fever dream, while hopped up on vicodin and cold medicine; and maybe this is the best way to get through the book, in fact, in that this atmospheric yet disturbingly violent tale takes some getting used to.
brite has gone through a big change in her career since then; she's now much more known for a series of funny relationships dramadies set in a series of new orleans restaurants.
new fans of brite, don't jump into her old work lightly!
This book is demented. It's the most obscene and grotesque thing I have ever read. Like looking at crime scene photos and being unable to look away. And yet I enjoyed it so much it made my teeth ache. But I very much feel the need to wash out the inside of my skull now. It is definitely not for the squeamish.
I've tried to figure out what exactly this story was lacking for me, and I could only come up with this analogy: A good horror story is like rolling up on the scene of a car accident before they've had a chance to clean up the mess.
A truly great one makes you feel like you knew the person in the accident - it's bone chilling.
Either way, it left me feeling like something was missing.
Still, this is the only time I can say I've come across (view spoiler)[two attractive serial killers fucking each other and sharing another person's entrails at the same time, (hide spoiler)] and there is something to be said for originality.
A mio avviso questo non è assolutamente un rivoltante libraccio splatter senza valore come si potrebbe supporre: certo, richiede una bella apertura mentale, un ampio respiro, l’assenza di ogni forma di pregiudizio e di moralismo, ma con queste premesse svelerà in modo lucido, a tratti persino poetico, il complesso mondo della deviazione psichica, e dirà tanto su questioni di fondo come l’emarginazione causata dall’AIDS (mi ha fatto molto riflettere a tal proposito il pezzo del monologo alla radio), la solitudine, la forza e il coraggio di portare fino in fondo le proprie scelte, con tutte le conseguenze personali e familiari che ne derivano.
What did was the lack of dimension in the characters (Brite seems to think that writing characters who are evil and disturbed will automatically give them some sort of depth - it doesn't) and the lack of...
From what I could tell, there was no point to the book except for a teen goth-esque "nyah, nyah, look how dark and twisted I am, look what I can write".
Frankly, the writing was over the top, the characters not only flat but unlikeable (and believe me, likeable and serial killer are not mutually exclusive) and mostly, I was just bored.

También sexo muy explícito y, en mucha ocasiones, ambas cosas a la vez.Pero si no tenéis estómago sensible, y os gusta ver las historias no solo del lado de "los buenos", no os importa lo anteriormente dicho, apreciaréis las descripciones sublimes y, seguramente, la historia entera.También se lleva las 5 estrellas porque, suelo leer lo que llaman género de terror y, es muy raro que me asusten o me parezcan escalofriantes las historias y este libro me ha inquietado bastante.
Más que eso, digamos que hay escenas en las que he sentido agobio, sobre todo las del final.
This book kept me reading an entire day when I was home due to Hurricane Isaac.
I would like to say that I was so offended by the serial killing, necrophilia, purposeful-AIDS-contraction (how does one word this?) and cannibalism that I promptly tossed the book aside.
With all of this being said, I am glad I live in a country where I have the right to possess and read any book, no matter how vile, and Brite has the freedom to create it.
The book manages to be both violent and sexy; the super-graphic blood and gore may prove to be turn-off for some readers.While nearly every character in the book is gay, this is probably not a book that will appeal to most gay readers; it is darker than Dennis Cooper, and I don't really know all that many gay men that read Dennis Cooper, so this novel about serial killers in love will probably not ever be considered a classic, though if there were justice, it would be.Expect graphic scenes of murder and sex, and expect to have a queasy, fascinated, watching-a-ten-car-pile-up feeling in your stomach when you read it.
When I was 13 I attempted to read this book, and now, I distinctly remember throwing it away in disgust after the first chapter.
I swore it was from having the book on my bed while I slept.
I made it through, I have no plans to read it again, as it is not my favorite genre of horror (necrophilia) But I pay my respects to Brite, Brite sure knows how to TERRIFY me.I do plan to revisit all older Brite titles now that I am an adult and not my rad 90s goth tween self, looking at the world through rose colored glasses.
Brite's EXQUISITE CORPSE is darker and infinitely more disturbing than any of her previous works.
This is an unflinching, unapologetic love story between two cannibalistic serial killers.Brite's writing is done so well you can almost smell the scents of the decadent French Quarter.
The story is made all the more chilling because of the point of view switches.
They were not molested, beaten or neglected as children.EXQUISITE CORPSE is a chilling trip into the darkest corners of the human mind and puts a new spin on the idea of eternal love.
Exquisitely Frightening.
This was a brutal read. I give the author props for certainly putting me into a murderer's POV, to the point where it was uncomfortable at times. I didn't feel much for the characters, except for one who...well, things didn't go well for him. If you're into extreme reading, go for it, just know you've been warned. I gave it three stars because it was one hell of an experience and I am glad I read it. I may even read it again someday, but I'm in no damn hurry. ENJOY!
Poppy Z.
Brite's hardcore horror opus is not for everyone.
This story, while very compelling and dark, also features some rather gruesome imagery and is not for th faint of heart.
That said, we end up with a really strong character study of four men, in two relationships.
One is the soon to be victim and his ex, the other, two serial killers.
If that sounds like a good hook, it is.
However, this is not really a thriller, so if your looking for a smash bang ening, look elsewhere.
Still, for those with the patience and the stomach, this comes highly recommended.
I made it through the entire book. I feel dirty. I guess thats a good thing. While this book is not for everyone,(possibly me) the writing is solid, with the exception of some pov problems at the end, and the characters are well drawn. Exquisite Corpse is definitely of its time (mid 80's) I'd forgotten how horrified people were about AIDS and serial killers. Both subjects seem thoroughly explored even overdone today. But I do see why its become a classic of its genre. It captures a moment in time.
This is my first--maybe last--Brite book, especially if they're as uninteresting as this one. A co-worker explained the book like this: It's like a book written by a high schooler who knows how to write pretty well. Sums it up for me. The writing, while trying to be daring and disgusting, just came off as juvenile.
Una historia de amor muy bestia, no apta para estómagos sensibles. Me han gustado el estilo y las descripciones, consigue meterte en situaciones muy extremas, a la vez que los personajes transmiten que lo que ocurre es de lo más normal para ellos.Si te interesan las mentes trastornadas y no te echan para atrás las descripciones gráficas de sexo y violencia, es una novela recomendable.
The nature of desire, after all, is its inability to be fulfilled; the condomless video becomes a dream screen whereby desire is glimpsed and renewed.Casey Mckittrick, in an essay entitled, Brothers Milk: the erotic and the lethal in bareback pornography, argues that, “Semen operates as the fundamental lost object in post AIDS gay male sexuality.
Just as the advent of AIDS installed a radical sense of alienation and displacement in the gay psyche, the condom becomes a barrier to this intimacy, a place where feelings of separation and radical incompletion are cathected.”Lee Edelman, in his book No Future: Queer Theory and the Death Drive, delineates a pathologizing tendency in mainstream American culture concerning homosexuality.
Written in sections of alternating points of view with no delineation between them, we meet Andrew and Jay whose common thread is their obsession with corpses and young boys and combining the two.
The one glimmer of light, Tran, is the beautiful young boy who acts as lure for their morbid lust.
Abandoned by his family and looking for love in all the wrong places, he was the only character I felt any connection to.
A lot of Poppy Brite's stories from that period explore themes of homosexuality and gay sexuality, and subsequently there's a certain "OH MY GOD LOOK HOW WE'RE HAVING TEH UBER GAY SEXSSS!!!" exuberance that seems kind of quaint in these (incrementally) more enlightened times.
(I'm actually kind of glad Brite's moved on from horror to more mainstream fiction, because I'm not sure how the constant portrayal of gay men in her stories as depraved sexual sadists and psychopaths does much for public perception of gay people.)This is also a book that is clearly inspired by and written in the fevered wake of the Jeffrey Dahmer story.
This is probably the grossest book I've read (maybe), and it was disturbing on all the levels, but oddly enjoyable.
If that doesn't sound interesting to you, definitely don't read this book 😂.
It's graphic, and gruesome as hell, but it was definitely interesting.
Brite book, and it was so over-the-top and absurd that I'll be reading another one haha.
The thing that irritated me about this book was that Andrew's chapters were in first person, and everyone else's were in third.
Sometimes Andrew would start in the middle of Jay's chapters, and I found it to be distracting.
this book is kinda: euuuu3333 WTF!! whaaaaaaat? Sh**! WTH! No way! He did what? I need a break!!The last part though!! My God!!
The author writes on her website that both her U.S. and British publisher turned down this, her third novel, due to its shocking and controversial subject matter.
5) Tran's ex-lover is an HIV positive operator of a pirate radio station and goes by the name Lush Rimbaud.6) There is a fantastically lurid climax.After over-writing her first novel, Brite began paring down her prose, and Exquisite Corpse has the icy precision such disgusting subject matter requires.
And I read that Brite has abandoned horror and now writes novels about running a restaurant in New Orleans.
I love Poppy Z.
I love that she's weird, and punk, and that she was true to her word and stopped writing goth when she got older.
This isn't her best work.
I actually think her short fiction is her best work.
That it was loosely based on Dahmer is clear.
And no matter how visceral the prose tried to be, it couldn't really be effective, knowing that Dahmer was real, and really had been up to his elbows in much more horrifying things.Still, four stars, for balls if nothing else.
It's extremely gruesome and truly morbid, but inexplicably charming. The relationship of the two serial killers is fascinating. Where this felt just a little bit unbelievable was the portrayal of their ultimate victim (view spoiler)[and how he kinda loved it even while they were stabbing him (hide spoiler)], but even so I have to give it five stars just for being so off-kilter and unforgettable.
The descriptive nature of this book is quite spell bounding and I did love the play with words...Now with the story line...
I loved the opening chapter and getting to know Andrew Crompton and his characteristics to me were much like Hannibal Lecter...
I wish the book was more revolved around him than getting intertwined with other meek characters such as Jay, Luke and Tran...Also a little far fetched how all these characters seem to come together in the one place as well!In saying that I did enjoy the book for the most part and how a book with so much gore doesn’t need a lot of swearing to get the point across...If you can handle descriptive gore then give this one a go!
