https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/530560.People_of_Darkness
Mary Landon is no more representative of white women than Chee is of Navajo men.
I was so happy with Hillerman's other MC, Joe Leaphorn, who definitely has strong mensch-like qualities.The only thing Chee does that was even remotely exciting to me (romantically/sexually) was "I have to finish these pots," she said."I'll do it for you," Chee said.Helping Mary finish doing the dishes after he asked her out at a function she was at.
Although the title sounds a bit biblical (recalling Isaiah 9:2), the “people of darkness” are, according to Jim Chee, who turns up for the first time here in a Hillerman mystery, the Dine’etse-tle, the humblest of Navajo predators: moles.
The people of darkness seem also to have been falling sick and dying off over the years, as Jim Chee discovers, and one of them barely escapes being blown to bits in chapter 1, while checking into the cancer ward at UNM hospital in Albuquerquqe.As Officer Chee works to figure things out, he is stalked by the extremely sinister Colton Wolf, a hit man, who, as the Dinee would say, “behaves as if he has no family”—and, indeed, he doesn’t, which helps explain how he turned out as he did.
* a long overdue celebration of Navajo culture, April 24, 2005 *Tony Hillerman gives Anglos like me who grew up near the Navajo Nation and other reservations and are curious about these cultures but have no real means of accessing them a way of learning more about them and how members interact with mainstream America in modern times.
These books celebrate Native cultures in a way that is long overdue.In addition, there is a series of novels about a Mayan detective in the Cancun area of the Yucatan Peninsula that are a pretty good read.
If you enjoyed this book and his other fiction, some of these may be worth checking out, as well.
Published in 1978, one of the early Jim Chee. Takes place in the areas of New Mexico through which we were traveling, the continental divide, Grant, Albuquerque. Reading this series is good anywhere, but reading them in the places evoked by Hillerman is awesome.
A fine novel by Tony Hillerman. Wonderful mystery set in the four corners area. A good read.
This is the story that Chee gets introduced, as Hillerman explained, because he had foolishly signed away the rights to Leaphorn and refused to write more books that were going to benefit others.
Chee is a more traditional Navajo than Leaphorn, torn between Shaman or law enforcement as possible careers.
He becomes friends with Mary, who I disliked, a white woman who seemed pretty negative and self centered to me.
She is pretty clueless, being the second wife and not knowing a critical part of her husband's past.
Chee and Mary unfortunately witness a murder and so the killer goes after them.
Will Chee survive?
As always, the Navajo people and their ways and habits are handled with delicacy, charm, and completeness.
It was a box of mementos, the only thing missing in the huge ranch house, which her husband never let her see.
Why?It develops, though they had been married for some time, there was 25 years missing from his past.
She suspected there were things in the box he had saved from that missing time.
Then there were the deaths of people under mysterious circumstances.
There was a hired killer, Colton Wolf, hired by BJ, in case the various people didn't die soon enough.
People of Darkness is a mystery involving Navajo Tribal Police Sergeant Jim Chee as he investigates a series of perplexing events including a mysterious theft and the murder of a dying man.
As the plot unfolds, Chee is drawn deeper into the Navajo tribal lands in New Mexico including the four corners area.
Hillerman is noted for his beautiful descriptions of the southwest and the ways of the Navajo people; he doesn't disappoint.
Sergeant Chee is interesting in that he is struggling with his two worlds, that of the Navajo as he is studying to be a shaman and his evolving role as part of the Navajo Tribal Police.
We first meet Jim Chee in this novel, who serves as a counter weight to the older and gruffer Leaphorn. Chee is a spiritual man and believes in the Navajo way, so when given two career choices, he chooses to remain in the Four-Corners region with his girlfriend. Although I read this book many years after it's publication, it didn't seem too dated, and I enjoyed the mystery.
I never tire of Hillerman. I got to read this book while flying directly over the area it was set. One of the older titles, this is where Chee first meets Mary Landon. This novel is particularly suspenseful, even for a Hillerman, as Chee is matched against a hitman who is more force than human. As always, a fun read all the way to the last page.
I have not been reading these in order, but I enjoy the pace and thoughtfulness of the action. It was nice to finally see how Chee and Mary finally meet. I'm A Huge Tony Fan. Really like what he does, and how he presents his work. Was VERY sorry when he died.
Another splendid Hellerman read. Engrossing and interesting. He does a masterful job of folding Navajo myths, religion and ways into a detective/mystery story plus the description of New Mexico scenery is wonderful. And, I really like the character of Jim Chee.
oops! I'm accidentally reading this all out of order I think? or not? I find the writing style comforting, and I can get through these pretty quickly. I had an idea of what was going on with the mystery, but the antagonist had quite a bit of background that made him more complex and kept the story going. as some others have commented, I didn't care for the female character or romance elements at all.
People of Darkness is the fourth book in the Navajo Mysteries series.
I knew from a series summary I read earlier that a second MC, Jim Chee, would be introduced at some point.
What I didn't expect was for Hillerman to just use him in a story with no explanation of who he was and no tie-in to Joe Leaphorn, the prior MC.
Fans of a series go into a book with certain expectations and it could have been a smoother transition.Also, as you can see from my crazy synopsis above, the story was a little all over the place.
People of DarknessAnother great read by Hillerman. I know it is from the 1990s, but these stories should be labelled as classics. They are timeless and are always intriguing, enjoyable in a gentle way. People of Darkness has Jimmy Chee following clues about a private case he has been offered, but no one seems to want him to take it. In the end, he becomes involved even though it was not on his agenda. Another well written mystery that hooks the reader and takes them into the world of Native American history and rituals.
I know I must have read this years ago (it's from 1980), but I didn't remember much about it, so that made it good to read again. I don't think I've ever read a Tony Hillerman book that I didn't like, and this was no exception. I really like Jim Chee.
I love Tony Hillerman's books. He writes like a dream, about interesting situations with real moral dimensions. You care about the characters - there are no anti-heroes in this book, only three dimensional villains and a wonderful hero in Jimmy Chee. I cannot recommend his books enough.
The setting is excellent, Chee makes a good detective hero, as he is sensitive and burdened with a conscience.
The murderer is very easy to spot -- it's the motive that makes this one more interesting.This is one of those books that features a contract killer, and like most contract killers in best sellers, he's more than a bit crazy.
The confrontations between Chee and this scary blonde guy do generate a lot of supense, so I guess that's why we must visit the intimate thoughts of Mr. Contract and his Mommy issues.Alas, our hero must also have a girlfriend.
A girlfriend who is interested in Chee because he's native american.
I've read a couple of Hillerman's books before, but this was my first time with People of Darkness.
I'd say it's one of his stronger books, and a good starting point for new readers.
We get the benefit of a fresh start with a new protagonist, but we're also past the unsteadiness that often shows in an author's first couple of books.
It's well paced and Hillerman's prose, while mostly straightforward, includes vivid descriptions of the scenery of the American Southwest.
I wouldn't call People of Darkness a particularly thought-provoking or eye-opening read, but it's good entertainment.
Another enjoyable mystery featuring Jim Chee. Lots of colorful description to take you into the Southwest and draw the reader into the Navajo culture. The witches are spreading evil and it is up to Chee to stop them.Well developed characters that are very relatable move the story along quickly.
Introduction of Jim Chee. He is a vehicle for the conflict between the Navajo way and the world around them. See my review of #1. The contrast between beauty and evil is even more vivid.
Perhaps the most gripping Hillerman book I have read.
Excellent book.
You never see it coming until it happens, but when the book climaxes and ends, I felt it could not have had a better ending.Hilleman weaves the Native culture and traditions in well without forcing things.
Does a good job of helping the reader visualize the confluence of modern trends versus Native traditions.
Joe Leaphorn hardly appears in this book, which was maybe actually good.
Jim Chee gets his own book and Leaphorn returns later in the series and you feel refreshed on his character.
People of Darkness reviewA very interesting story with twists and turns. There are insights into the Navaho way of life. Recommend this book.
This was my second of Tony Hillerman's books and so far with each book I have become more of a fan. I love the simplicity of the way Hillman writes and the imagination he allows me to have in this storytelling. Fantastic book would recommend it even more then Dance hall of the dead.
Officer Chee's uncle told him (at a very young age) that "he must choose between the white-man's way of life or the Navajo's", but he must experience both cultures before he truly decides: and eventually chooses the latter.
No evidence, but we figured the doctor was the target.”		(page 150)  AND...Difficult Comprehension:“The mole, his hunting place is darkness.The mole, his hunting song is silence.”		 (page 227)	 These quotes illustrate Hillerman’s distinct writing style; the first demonstrates his short, choppy writing, while the second displays how difficult the book is to analyze and decipher.
Spending whole books trying to find out whodunnit, where the biggest climax is finally being given the answer, appeals to me very little.
Little moments such as Chee's awareness of the sounds buildings make, or his habit of waiting at a polite distance outside a witness's house until they are ready to recieve guests (rather than knocking on the door), contributed subtly to a rich, colorful illustration of Navajo culture--not just how they dress, where they live, but delving into how they think--what matters to them, how they see themselves in relation to the world.
Hillerman's writing is so subtle and pervasive, a good writer shows character rather than tells it, and Hillerman expresses it with scent, sound and touch--blank space in the form of wind, the reservation badlands, the politeness of a people who let the space linger to be certain to listen well.
Instead, the culture moves the plot, the investigation, the motivation of the characters, the questions that are asked, the questions that are not asked.
Detectives Leaphorn and Chee, by being themselves, solve problems and solve crimes in ways that are unfathomable to the elite white male FBI and state law enforcement.
The fourth book in Tony Hillerman's Navajo Detectives series is “The People of Darkness.” Whereas in the first three books Lt. Joe Leaphorn is the main character; “People of Darkness" introduces Sgt. Jim Chee, a young reservation law enforcement officer who struggles to find balance between the traditional ways of the Navajo and the white man's world - and a career in the FBI.
These questions seemingly haunt Chee as he journeys into the scorching Southwest desert in pursuit of the truth only to be thwarted by and a relentless assassin who always seems to be a step ahead of him.As typical of Hillerman’s novels, elements of Navajo culture, religion, and folklore are woven into the plot and story line making local color an essential element.
Love Hillerman's Navajo Mysteries.
They are very consistent and evoke a place and a people which many of the best mystery series do.
Forsyth's Day of the Jackal is my most vivid use of this style, but it's incredibly common now and when done well, I love the effect.
I like a good mystery, but I love a great good guy/bad guy story.
Usually I like a little more gray in both my protagonist and my antagonist, but I find Hillerman's detectives reflect the Navajo style he uses so effectively and so I give him a pass on that one.
If you like Hillerman, you'll like this one too.
Tony Hillerman's "People of Darkness" is the 4th of his "Leaphorn & Chee" novels and the first one featuring Jim Chee (Joe Leaphorn only makes an appearance as the originator of a telephone message).
Best of all, Hillerman makes sure the bad guys get what's coming to them in a fitting way.
I miss Joe Leaphorn.
But, Jim Chee is just as good.
I rate the book at a Very Good 4 stars out of 5.Hillerman's "Leaphorn & Chee" novels are:1.
People of Darkness5.
The Dark Wind6.
The Ghostway (Jim Chee Novels)7.
Sacred Clowns: Novel, A12.
The Fallen Man13.
Skeleton Man18.
