https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/459822.Fluke
‘Fluke’ by ‘James Herbert’ – who is often referred to as the ‘English Stephen King’ – is a ‘chilling yet warm’ kind of supernatural tale, told through the thoughts and sights of a confused and special dog – a dog who is ‘Fluke by name, Fluke by nature’ -, which can delight you as a reader.
Those books were best sellers because many readers (including me) were too horrified to put them down."‘Fluke’, a canine’s worldIn ‘Fluke’, James Herbert successfully paints a world for the reader through the perspective of a dog; a perspective, which is both charming and heart-breaking at times to read.
A great wee tale about a dog, Fluke, who used to be a human and his journey to understanding why he is now a dog. I loved how this book was narrated. I loved the fact that Fluke's characteristics change from dog to human and back again frequently. That, plus it made me feel for Fluke very much. This feels like the opposite of the only other Herbert book I've read, The Rats. I hated The Rats, I loved Fluke.
This strangely enough was recommended to my by the Hypnobobs podcast back in March as a starting point for reading the late Mr. Herbert's works.One of the best animal stories I've read, and I've read plenty!
Mr. Herbert masterfully described the struggle between Fluke's instincts and his lingering humanity as well as an animal's view of the world and the strange two-legged creatures that inhabit it.
I would put this book right up there with Watership Down, The Plague Dogs, and Mrs. Frisby & the Rats of NIMH as one of the greatest animal stories of all time.His sudden passing is a great loss for we shall never get anymore tales from this master storyteller.
The whole story is an adventure written from the perspective of a dog.
Herbert captures the world at ground level, as seen through a dog's eyes (and nose) in such a compelling fashion that I actually found myself believing that it was a first account, accurate portrayal of canine thoughts and feelings - when finishing this book, I genuinely looked at my dog in a different way!I don't want to give the plot away, but, Fluke, from his early puppyhood knows that he is different from the other dogs.
It all comes together at the ending which may leave you with a few theological thoughts and with you probably not being able to look at your dog in the same way again!
This book is very good.
I often have conversations with Archimedes my cat, well I think I do.
What a wonderful world we would live in if we all knew that we are connected.
Imagine if everything was aware of everything that existed.
Imagine a peaceful existence where nothing is hidden.
Only love and transparency.
Imagine knowing what the trees were thinking.
Fluke is a great book by one of my top ten UK authors.
James Herbert created a brilliant story of reincarnation and loves lost.
Of the world through the eyes of a man reincarnated into a dogs body.
Great book.🐯👍👍🐯
This was followed by another book which proved to be popular, The Fog. Herbert continued to produce novels on many different topics and genres until his recent death.
Most of the book is describes the tastes, smells and impressions which are meaningful to a dog.Eventually, he’s found by a junkyard dark names Rumbo and takes up with him.
Fluke is forced to travel alone, in search of who he is and where his former family might be living.Toward the conclusion of the book, Fluke meets a badger who talks philosophically.
You must live as a dog now.” But Fluke continues in search of the family he remembers from his former life.
But I bit the bullet and I'm so glad I did.This book is nothing like James Herbets normal style.
We then follow Fluke on his vast adventures and find out just what fluke is and why he was a puppy, and along the way we meet some really amazing characters as well as some really nutty ones too.I was expecting a heart breaking Watership down kind of vibe from this book and I wasn't looking forward to it.
As for a favourite character in this book it had to be Rumbo after Fluke of course.
In my opinion this book is the best of the many books that was written by James Herbert.Very easy to read but hard to put down. Highly recommended. Ten stars.
What happens when Siobhan finds a James Herbert book going cheap?
Then, she buys it with a wide smile on her face.In case you cannot tell, I rather enjoy a good James Herbert read.My initial foray into Herbert’s world was accidental.
Those books were also devoured and my status as a Herbert fan was cemented.
Of course, Herbert is not going to give us the answer until the end of the book.
We need to read about the life of the dog before we can understand the why of the situation.It really was interesting to read a book written from a non-human perspective.
This is the story of a dog named Fluke who, since being a very young pup, believes he was once a man.
We follow his story - which is told in the first person (or rather dog) - from being in a litter of pups, through his boisterous time of adolescence whilst living on the streets, to becoming an adult and his quest to find out the truth about his past.
I believed this was written by a dog.
This is such an enchanting story and up there as one of the best books I have ever read.
But this is a fantasy in which he seamlessly steps into the paws of Fluke, the puppy that grows into a dog...
'I called out to the men, but the sound wa just a dog's howl.
I tried to think of my previous life, but when I concentrated, the mental pictures slid away.
How had I become a dog?'It's a superb piece of observation, a moving tale of character and, paradoxically, humanity in the animal kingdom.
The taste of life was in me and questions pounded my brain.'It's an emotional rollercoaster, injected with humour and pathos.

One of James Herberts better stories, in this book he isn't just trying to gross you out or scare the pants of you, the plot is a bit more serious. Fluke is a dog, he realises from a young age that he isn't normal, he then goes on an adventure to discover the truth about himself. Things do feel a bit disneyish at times, not too much in this to shock you.In my opinion Dog!: You'll Never Look At Your Dog the Same Way Again. is a more interesting point of view by a dog.
I thought this story was absolutely wonderful.
I only read it because my fiance recommended it to me, thinking I'd enjoy it.
It's quite a compelling story and as it's not that long, it's really easy to read.
I'm not usually a big fan of stream-of-consciousness writing, and though this is only very loosely SOC, Herbet weaves the story together so well that I didn't really notice.This is the first Herbert story I read, I'm pretty sure 'The Rats' is next on my list, as I've heard from a few people that they are good stories.
And I do love a good story!
I have read this book many times and own my original copy from 1983.
I have always admired this book, I love the way that you sit back and see life through the eyes of the dog, the colors, the ghosts and many other smells and intuition..This book made me laugh and cry and still does today.
Its an easy read and I always find that if I have another chance, maybe a dog would not be a bad place to start.
This is a great read for everyone, oh and if you think its like the movie, its not, this is 100 times better than hollywood....
While very different to what I expected after reading other novels by James Herbert, I found this to be a very unique and intriguing writing style. The story is well put together, and while I thought in the first few chapters I may not find this story through the eyes of a dog too interesting, the ensuing 3 chapters hooked me in. I could not put this book down until it's unexpected ending.
A wonderful story told from a dog's perspective. I'm not a dog owner, but I really liked FLUKE.
They all just feel the same.All I knew about 'Fluke' was that it was the story of a dog that has the mind of a human.
Not just because it relit my respect for the author, but also because as a book that looks into the life of a dog (how they see us; and how the animal world works in general), I thought it was fascinating.
In a time when I was losing respect for James Herbert, for always offering the same thing, this book has reminded me not to be too much of a dick towards him.
I'll look forward to that, as this is only the second book I've read from this author.One part I was a bit confused over was that I think someone tried to justify animal cruelty at one point.
The shocking truth was very good, especially because the truth became apparent to Fluke near the place everything changed for him.Overall, I do believe this was a good book, a fun read and something I enjoyed at the time, however I wasn't always motivated to pick it up and I doubt it will stick with me for ages.
I hadn't considered reading Fluke before seeing the slightly soppy movie adaptation of it, when I was about 9 or 10, being as the front cover resembled those of the many other James Herbert books my parents owned- all of which, I believed to be quite scary.
With a scary black dog, with a man-shaped shadow, I was certain it was a scary book, but it turns out, that despite its supernatural themes, Fluke is actually quite different from other James Herbert novels.
Albiet sweet, it certainly doesn't have the same soppiness the American movie had, and the message is much stronger in the book.
Through out the novel, Fluke remembers bits and pieces of his former life as a human and this is what drives the story in a vague direction.
Herbert’s writing is brilliant in this novel and his descriptions of life as a dog are so detailed and convincing that you would think he has been one himself at some point.This novel is emotional and fast-paced all the way through.
I have read books a bit similar to it (White Fang, Marley and Me, and the Redwall series to name a few) but this one is still unique.
To me, reading yet another book about a dog seeming new and unique is a miracle.
I have loved this book since childhood and everytime I pick it up I am compelled to read it again.
To the point I did take to hiding it in my chest of drawers to avoid seeing it regularly!
James Herbert is an incredible author with a real knack for storytelling in the first person.
He manages to convey a depth of emotion I rarely find in a book.
Don't get me wrong, I connect very easily on an emotional level (hence the many tears that often flow), but Fluke gets to me in a totally different way.
This book was fabulous! I was totally engaged in this doggo's adventures the entire time I was reading and the writing from a dog's perspective was perfect.
Very interesting idea, telling about a man coming to accept that he was reincarnated into a dog's body. Great job of describing a dog's point of view.
I read this book Fluke in the 80s and adored it, a must for anybody who owns a Dog, this will get the imagination going.  Superb reading.
‘Fluke’ weaves a suspenseful story about a stray dog who soon realizes that it used to be a man in its previous life.
Nicknamed Fluke, it (or he) embarks on a journey to discover the truth behind what had caused his death.Herbert truly excelled at writing the story solely from the point of view of an animal.
As Fluke struggles to recall his past life and tries to hold on to fleeting memories, it is difficult not to feel sorry for him and hope that he eventually finds the answers that he’s looking for.Fluke’s adventures along the way were engaging, especially his friendship with an older, wiser dog Rumbo.
This was a weird little story covering the life of a dog, told from the dog’s POV, who has vague memories of having been human once. He remembers a wife and daughter and remembers being murdered. The story meanders through several major events in the dog’s life as he learns to fend for himself and tries to track down the remains of his old life and his murderer. I was entertained enough to finish the entire book, but found the conclusion unsatisfying.Audiobook version, purchased from Audible. Damian Lynch gives an excellent performance.
I really enjoyed the writing. This book was very interesting and very different from what I usually read. It was a good read even though I didn't completely agree with the beliefs in the book. This book never let me get bored and I was always excited to keep reading till the very end.
Another great book from James Herbert. So well written. His descriptions of how the dog sees people, and the way he describes the communications between the animals and humans is just SO believe able !! Eh, how could he know ? Do yourself a favour, Read it !
Absolutely loved this book.
