https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/827686.Black_No_More
In a capitalistic economy an underclass will always be created some way, some how. Schuyler was well aware of this in 1931, which speaks directly to all the reviewers mentioning this novel's painful relevance.A wonderfully satiric & clever intro, for me, into the game-changing world of Harlem Renaissance Literature.
In this Harlem renaissance classic, Schuler mixes satire and science fiction for a unique blend of social commentary.
Although, in Black No More, he was very critical of the NAACP, Schulyer worked for the NAACP from 1937-1944 as business manager.Was any of the satire based on genuine conviction?
It might be interesting to read one of his later books like Black and Conservative: the Autobiography of George Schuyler or Rac(e)Ing to the Right.
Johnson lost control of Pym in the same way I think Black got away from Schulyer.
Both books offer irreverent, entertaining social commentary.This is my first classic of 2016.
Schuyler was actually a rather conservative African American writing at the same time the Harlem Renaissance was occurring, which as a result, rather shocked me that I would be able to relate so well to his views.
The premise is that a black doctor (read: mad scientist) has developed a method to artificially give his subjects vitiligo, the disease the Michael Jackson claims to have, that causes the pigment to fade from one's skin.
As a result there is a mad rush of black folks turning white.
I liked it and I don't even really read fiction.
Bullet Review:Pretty creepy that I would 100% believe this could have been written yesterday.What would happen if there was a way that blacks could be made white? What would America look like? This is that portrait - and in Trump’s America, it’s pretty eery.Just so no one is surprised: yes, the n-word is used. A LOT. But these characters are pretty awful (both white and black), and this was written in the 1930’s so bear that in mind.
The complicated plot weaves through various political maneuvers as the forces at war try to destroy or sustain Black No More.This all sounds very good and there are laughs and some sharply observed truths that emerge as the plot plays out.The most important point the book addresses, and it is a piquant one still as relevant and real as ever, is society's need for the scapegoat, the "other," the person or the group that can keep the social order divided to divert attention from real human problems and solutions and keep elites in power.
This outrageous, hilarious and insightful novel is one of the great masterpieces of satire and of black American literature.
Spike Lee, maybe?Schuyler, surely the greatest black journalist in American history, is a fascinating character who deserves a great deal more attention than he has received.
His conservatism led to his being utterly shunned by the intelligentsia in the last years of his life.
In recent years there has thankfully been more interest in the large and very rich body of work he produced.
Wow, this was a hilarious book!
Similarly, of an upper-class white supremacist, Schuyler observes: "While he had no love for the Knights of Nordica [the novel's revived Klan] which, he held, contained just the sort of people he wanted to legislate into impotency, social, economic, and physical, he believed he could use them to gain his point." This opportunistic alliance between money and the religious masses anticipates Reagan and the religious right, as it does the contemporary Tea Party and its constituency.Schuyler's central trope is inspired, as he uses the sudden illegibility of skin color to unpack the politics of passing and white beauty standards, to reveal the morass of genealogy that renders the grand theories and binaries of race science nonsensical as well as hateful [the white supremacists, trying to research their own purity, reveal that all supposedly white families contain black ancestry...Though "Finding Your Roots" is totally sincere as opposed to this ironic masterpiece, [author:Henry Louis Gates Jr.|3862441] must have had a chuckle at how much Schuyler would appreciate these narratives of the country's interracialism when he began his American genealogy/genome show for PBS], and to dramatize whiteness as a constructed source of social distinction.
Super smart. Loved the content and idea. Didn’t love the writing. The humor did g translate for me 80 years on. Still relevant as far as the topic and conversations.
Schuyler goes after everyone and everything race-related from Dr. DuBois (aka Dr. Shakespeare Agamenon) to the UNIA/Marcus Garvey to Black peoples obsession with looking/ 'acting' white in any way they could.
Its interesting because in my Harlem Renaissance class we also read Schuyler's essay "The Negro Art Hokum" and BLACK NO MORE contradicts that essay somewhat.
Schuyler also makes the point that the issue of race has been used to hide class differences, much as it still is today.
It is a well-known fact among informed persons that a Negro from a given section speaks the same dialect as his white neighbors.
In this short comedy/satire, Schuyler takes on the race problem in America.
A scientist discovers a means by which to artificially induce vitiligo - normally a hereditary disorder that causes white patches to appear on the skin.
Without a Negro problem, Americans could concentrate their attention on something constructive." Of course what ensues in this pithy little tale is sheer pandemonium.
Schuyler has no problem spreading the criticism around - from Black academics, to scientists, clergy, community leaders, politicians, white supremacists, and working class whites - all play a part in exacerbating the race problem.
Schuyler imagines a post-racial America (what if black people turned white and therefore had access to all the things they were previously denied because of their skin color?) and then shows what really drives racism.
(Hint: it's capitalism--and the desire for power.) He also, of course, shows what we already know: there is no actual difference between white and black people except that some of us think we're superior to others of us.Schuyler eviscerates everyone who benefits from racism, including black intellectuals and, of course (and especially), politicians.
Read Harder 2018, Task 9: A book of colonial or postcolonial literature
I was really excited about this little book in the beginning...Then, I don't know, but it felt apart for me.
I enjoyed Schuyler's very sharp wit and his critical eye.
I laughed many times at the parodies and various "bigger than life" characters, especially Doctor Crookman, but somehow, somewhere along the last half of the book, I stopped caring.
I think I should return to this book later in the year and give it another try.
Black no more is probably a brilliant book but it didn't live up to my personal expectations.
I was anticipating more dept perhaps.
An absolutely brilliant satire about race in America. Written in 1930, it's as relevant today as it was then. Schuyler's work lampoons racists on every front, and no one escapes his incisive commentary. Parts of this book reminded me of Nella Larsen's masterpiece Passing. This book is now among the top three in my all-time list. Thank you to my friend Ryan Haynes for giving me this book as a gift. Read it!
poignant, humorous and it's sarcasm done exactly right...can't beat that!
I enjoyed this book a lot and would definitely recommend it, but what is holding me back from giving it five stars was that, at times, both the writing and the story seemed to lag a bit.
Of course, had that been done maybe the overall story wouldn't have the same impact that it does; that's hard to tell.
I think what we can learn from Schuyler's novel is that we are so much more as people than we appear to be.
Give this a read and I guarantee that you'll learn about yourself and how an almost one hundred year old novel can hold its own throughout history.
Although I abhor George Schuyler's reactionary political veiws(he supported Joe McCarthy), I loved his highly satirical "Black NO More." At times it is falling down on the floor funny;however, beware for you may end up laughing at yourself or at one of your icons.
It seems that Schuyler didn't like any of the African American icons: DuBois, Garvey, James Weldon Johnson, or Walter White.
His story line is quite imaginative: what would happen if someone could invent a process to turn Negroes white?
Beware: if you know little about history or the period you will not understand the satire and humor.
Hilarious in parts - the jury is out and will probably remain there?????
One of Crookman's first patients is a man named Max Disher, a restless salesman who's tired of the difficulties of life as a Black man, especially his lack of access to white women.
He also criticizes that many Black leaders, though talking about the uplift of all Black people, tended to have wives who were nearly white, something that is still relevant today.
So jaded in fact, that Schuyler believes that were such a procedure invented, only a few thousand African-Americans would refuse it.
Funny and clever in the squirming, uncomfortable way I've come to expect from good satires.
All the -isms (racism, sexism, classism, etc.) and the -ologies (theology, anthropology, biology, etc.) get their turn at bat and no one comes out looking good...
But for such a quick and entertaining read, these are small complaints.
In this book which centers somewhat around a black man who, through the help of a scientist, turns himself white, Schuyler presents a book that is often unique and - particularly as it was published in 1931 - surprising.
Everyone soon is, and we end up with the inevitable conclusion that "we're all n-----s." The prose is sometimes clunky, but the satire is well-crafted and effective.
(Side note: this is the logical end point for a surprising number of books from the era about passing for white, including Nella Larsen's Passing and Jessi Redmon Fauset's Plum Bun.) I dug it pretty well, although I don't think its relegation to the margins is unjustified.
Theme but not plot spoiled ahead: (view spoiler)[Be ready for a shockingly violent conclusion; it's a pretty drastic shift in tone, and not really an effective one.
"Black No More" is a great idea terribly executed. The style is sloppy and inelegant. The satire is so obvious, the jokes so juvenile, that in places it's painful and embarrassing to read (e.g. characters called Dr. Crookman, Senator Kretin, Moses Lejewski, Dr. Cutten Prodd, Rev. McPhule, and Bishop Belch). The only readable passages are those in which Schuyler reverts to more journalistic tones and analyzes political situations, sparing the reader his God-awful dialogue.
Someone should make a movie of this book! The story is not at all dated and may actually be even more relevant today than when written. The author starts with a wild premise and executes it without pulling punches. He indicts both whites and blacks in the process of nailing what brings out the worst in all humans (greed for money and power) and shows how the obsession with white supremacy serves many ugly purposes. This book deserves to be re-issued in a new edition...
Wow. Just wow. I thought I was being totally outrageous when I wrote Koontown, but Schuyler took *all* the gloves off on this one. He even named names. I admire this man's courage, and I love his sense of humor. This is the kind of book that shows you *exactly* what satire is all about.
I dare you not to laugh while reading this, and maybe even wince a few times. Schuyler is at his best when he's taking on everyone in the room, and mostly winning.
I have a lot to say about this book, link to video review coming soon
Excerpt of intro to penguin classics edition by Danzy Senna (New People)http://www.nybooks.com/daily/2018/01/...
This book takes absurdity to a whole new level. And, despite the 1930s slang, this book feels very contemporary and relevant to what’s happening today. It’s also laugh out loud funny.
First, from a stylistic and organizational point of view (the mechanics), Schuyler's control of figurative language, facetious tone, and demonstration of dialectic knowledge is impressive.
"Black No More" is definitely a page-turner, and it is well worth the read with current political context.
Viewed as contrarian during the Harlem Renaissance Scene, many figures dismissed his arguments about race and capitalism.
Yet, what makes Black No More so fantastic and convincing is Schuyler's clairvoyance surrounding arguments of race (as sociologically conceived as opposed to inherently biological).
As well, his satirical condemnation of capitalism and its nebulous ability to co-opt anything, even racial identity politics, is an extremely timely argument--and very compelling.
Schuyler's satiric 1931 science fiction novel was a revelation to me.
The plot, in which a scientist discovers a method to make African-Americans into Euro-Americans (or, in the parlance of the Harlem Renaissance and 1930s America, black Negroes into whites) allows Schuyler to lampoon American race relations and all sorts of social phenomena associated with racism and exploitation.
All in all, though, this novel is brilliant, sharp, and tremendous fun; Schuyler's influence is easy to see in works like Ishmael Reed's _Mumbo Jumbo_, and is similar in tone and spirit to the best work of Kurt Vonnegut.
