https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98573.Harold_and_the_Purple_Crayon
He has many adventures looking for his room, and in the end he draws his own house and bed and goes to sleep.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز پانزدهم ماه آگوست سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: هارولد و مداد شمعی بنفش کتاب 1؛ نویسنده و تصویرگر: کراکت جانسون؛ مترجم: فاطمه حجوانی؛ تهران، قدیانی، 1390؛ در 64 ص، مصور، فروست: مجموعه قصه های هارولد 1؛ شابک: 9789645367204؛ موضوع: داستانهای خیال انگیز کودکان از نویسندگان سده 20 مهارولد، پسر چهار ساله، شب هنگام از خانه بیرون میرود، تا قدم بزند.
او با مداد بنفش، یک ماه در آسمان، و یک راه بر روی زمین، نقاشی میکند.
Now, you see, my little Scoutie Kat loves Harold and the Purple Crayon, and I think it is because I finally figured out the voice for reading aloud.
One night last month we were sitting around, and I was exhausted, so rather than try to muster energy and liven up proceedings, I simply went with my exhaustion, put in a pseudo-mid-western accent and languidly set off on Harold's journey.
I think I'd always been reading it wrong, trying to make it into an adventure, rather than a journey to sleep.
I have it now, though, and I'll never read it another way again.
Harold deserves it.)
And "yeah," you babbled: "Anywhere purple." Because that's all it is, child, isn't it?
"No," they protest, "it's pie and dragons!" Scribbly purple pies and dragons, and not the real thing.
The real pie is in the refrigerator, the real dragons are in your sofa fort, and this is boring.You might as well know now, child: your parents are boring.
You will be assaulted on all sides by books that grown-ups think are good for you, and they will be boring.
Did your parents honestly like them?
They were born small adults, and they became big adults, and they have always liked boring things.
This is a book about an insomniac toddler who gets out of bed and goes wandering around at night armed with a magic crayon.
What were his parents thinking?
Didn't they realize that you should put toddlers to bed early and make sure they stay there?
And didn't they know that you shouldn't give magical objects to young children?
Harold could have fallen out of bed and ended up with an owie.
What is worse, he could have gotten lost, eaten, injured, kidnapped, jailed or drowned.This book should be prohibited because it encourages neglect and shows a lamentable overuse of imagination.
This was my choice for the Popsugar prompt "A book with your favorite color in the title"Children's book choice 2 out of 3 and I have to say, after all the hype surrounding what a fantastic book this is, I just didn't see it. Sure it's a cute read, but for something so beloved I expected a little... more? Anyway, on to the next one!P.S. my kids weren't all that interested either so I guess it wasn't just me.
Vergil's theme that a divine origin - and the firm religious foundation built upon this - is the wellspring of Roman glory is well symbolized by the ending; the journey of Harold/Aeneas ends when he embraces "pietas" and the destiny placed upon him by Venus, and builds his "room" around her (thus establishing the Roman race).Crockett Johnson's masterful interpretation of this theme through spartan monochrome illustrations offers a remarkable counterpoint to Vergil's ornate Latin verse.
The author's metaphor is dual - Harold is not merely Aeneas, founder of the Romans.
تقرأ كأنك تحلم.
The sad thing is I don't remember reading this as a child - I discovered The Adventures of Harold and the Purple Crayon at age 30 - Where have you been all my life Harold?
If you're like me or if you've read it before - do yourself a favor and read this book - rediscover a world of imagination and simplicity.
I like Harold and the Purple Crayon better than Where the Wild Things Are, which is a book of similar material, although not quite as simplistic.Some Favorite Parts:He didn't want to get lost in the woods.
But luckily, he kept his wits and his purple crayon.
A true classic and for good reason! A marvelous story about all the places imagination (and a purple crayon) can take you! Don't let the book's apparent "simplicity" fool you--this is a treasure.I'm a creative person, but I'm not especially artistic in terms of drawing/painting/etc. so I could both appreciate Harold's creative spirit and his artistic talents that are beyond me! That said, I think even though Harold uses a purple crayon, the imagination and creativity can be so relevant to various artistic persuasions--writing, music, dance, etc. all help us create worlds :->
After finally having had a chance to read Crocket Johnson's Harold and the Purple Crayon (which I unfortunately never did get a chance to actually and actively encounter during my own childhood, although I had heard of its existence), and what in my humble opinion makes this timeless classic so very much and inherently, lastingly special is that with the simplicity of the accompanying illustrations, the author/illustrator shows children (no, he actually shows EVERYONE) that imagination and even artistic imagination does NOT need to be realism-based, does not need to be three dimensional, and most certainly does not ever really need to be painterly, as Harold's artistic adventures with his ubiquitous purpose crayon are all depicted as simple line drawings, expressive, evocative, adventurous, but in no way overly involved and with too many minute details (stick figure like renderings that most of us, and even those of us with imagination, and appreciation for art but not really all that much if any talent for drawing, painting and the like could more than likely manage easily enough).
... what are we missing? Small-fry was bored and his only thoughts were ”why doesn’t Harold have any other colors?”  And ”hey, Kaylin! Purple is YOUR favorite color too!”I get that is about imagination and silly and all that fun stuff. But it’s also just a kid scribbling things that somehow leads to an adventure??
Harold and the Purple Crayon is upsetting because it is not a journey into the imagination or even into a real yet magical world (a la Maurice Sendak's Where the Wild Things Are or C.S. Lewis's The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe), from which Harold can return home to his own sweet room and his own sweet bed.
Instead, Harold is forced to recreate his own room and his own bed, drawing them with his purple crayon as he drew everything else on his journey.
Harold and his purple crayon break diegetic barriers as if it's nobody's business. Postmodern as fuck.
Some books are classics for a reason. This is one of those books. I'd happily recommend this book for kids of any age range. They're delightful, and my boys enjoy having them read and re-read to them.
Such a fun children's book about a child's imagination and what he can do with it, with the right tools.
J'ai décidé lire des livres enfantines parce que j'ai besoin de pratiquer la langue française.
Mais maintenant je voudrais lire des autres livres enfantines.
J'ai trouvé une copie de livre, Harold et le Crayon Violet, dans le catalogue biblioteque.
Pourquoi pas avec un petit garçon qui dessine en crayon violet?
Dans ce livre, Harold dessina l'environnement entier avec son crayon violet.
Il dessina une colline que change en montagne, un ballon, une maison, des fenêtres ...
Mais il ne trouvait pas sa fenêtre.
Le crayon violet tomba par terre et Harold tomba de sommeil.
As a little girl, this book was a daily bedtime read. I loved how Harold could create new worlds and adventures with his purple crayon. My mum thinks this started my love affair with all things purple. A great read which promotes imagination and creativity for kids. Inspirational for us grown-ups, too. My Rating: 5+ stars
I never had a problem with the book as a child, but my cynical (and science fiction/fantasy-addled) adult brain's re-reading uncovers the horrific implications within the story, implications that I'm sure Johnson had absolutely no clue he was writing.We start with young Harold, alone and (we are to assume) inexplicably placed in an inter-dimensional plane of nothingness, with nothing but his magic crayon as a link to his home world.
Imagine the utter loneliness and despair he must feel to have to draw a moon, simply to feel some connection and link with the world he has lost.He draws a road, but he soon finds that the road leads nowhere, so he is forced to draw a field with a tree.
I just love this book (even though my wife insists I never pronounce the word crayon correctly. She says I say "crown"). As an author I try to emulate what Harold does in this book. First, go looking for an adventure. Next, add some obstacles, a little humor, a moose, some pie, and some narrow escapes. Finally, when you're all done, find your way home and get some rest. If I was ever stranded on a desert island, this would be the book I'd want to have with me.
In Defense of Purple Proseby Paul Westhttp://www.nytimes.com/1985/12/15/boo...Like with reading Finnegans Wake and following Jesus, become as like a little child.....
Harold is probably the most influential character in all of literature in our family
One of the all-time best books to foster creativity in children. A must for EVERY child's bookshelf.
Falling into the sea, but then drawing himself a sailing boat; plummeting off a one-sided mountain, but creating a hot-air balloon in mid-tumble - Harold has everything he needs in his purple crayon...Originally published in 1955, this classic picture-book for younger children is one of those universally beloved books that I somehow missed, in my own girlhood reading.
How true it is that we create the world around us (and not just as children) through our imaginative lives.
Amusing, clever, perceptive - Harold and the Purple Crayon is children's literature at its best, demonstrating yet again that for those with the true vision, great artistic and intellectual merit can be found in the simple and the small.
i only read this for a pop sugar challenge. don't judge me.
Hmm. Maybe I'd have liked it better if the crayon were blue.
Simple, but super cute and well done!
Harold is, as I mentioned, a small toddler - he looks like a baby still, though he can walk - and draw.
The imaginative adventure that Harold goes on is just delightful, and this is definitely a book I would have loved as a kid (like I said, I have no memory of ever reading it before).
I think it's more that he can't hold two contrary contexts in his head yet: that Harold is just drawing on his wall and hasn't really left his bedroom, and the fantastic adventure, or journey, itself.
Our whole family loves Harold.
Out of all of his stories, this is one of our favorites, because we just love following him along on his drawing adventure.
I idea that you can create worlds just by drawing them both fascinates and horrifies my children.
My 3 yr old twins already shout "Harold!" whenever they see me pull out of of his books, and my 5 yr old, often requests these.
Bringing back memories from my childhood watching Romper Room, and singing "Well you know my name is Simon...", always comes to mind when I read these.
This was the first book I remember loving. I remember going to the school library and snatching it off the shelf happy to read about Harold creating his own world with a purple crayon.Purple was my favourite colour when I was a kid too.I wish I owned a copy of it. It brings back happy childhood memories.
O cărticică inventivă pentru preșcolari. Ajută la imaginație! :)
