https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8647.Shadow_of_the_Giant
4.0 stars. And so we arrive at the finale to the wonderful Shadow series on the heals of the tumultuous events of the previous three books, Ender's Shadow,Shadow of the Hegemon andShadow Puppets. For those that have not read the previous installments, there will be some spoilers below as the plot summary alludes to events that have occurred in the previous books. However, I will avoid spoilers for this book and will try and be as general as possible in the synopsis. This book concludes shortly
And so we arrive at the finale to the wonderful Shadow series on the heals of the tumultuous events of the previous three books, Ender's Shadow,Shadow of the Hegemon andShadow Puppets.
In addition, Bean is frantically searching for his missing “children,” the fertilized embryos previously stolen.While I did not like this as much as the previous books in the series, I still thought it was very good.
Through all 8 novels in the Ender/Bean series, Card, in my opinion, has not written one below “very good” and this installment is no exception.
I then loved the third books of both series more than the first but not as much as the second (Xenocide and Shadow Puppets).
No one really annoyed me in those two books.
I can't speak to the remainder of Ender's series because I got so bored listening to Speaker for the Dead that I set is aside for a bit.
I've finished off Bean's series with this one and phew, thank goodness it is over because I don't think I could've read/listened to another one.
Good question.
And the readers for his books are absolutely fabulous.
(I listened to them out of order) It was only downhill from there.NOTE: The 10% I don't find annoying don't really make appearances in this series--Ender and Valentine.
Cu un rol mai mult simbolic și fără o putere reală, Peter Wiggin, Hegemonul Pământului, încearcă să-și exploateze puțina influență politică pentru a pune bazele Alianței Popoarelor Libere și a unifica întreaga planetă sub un singur conducător, evitând astfel războiul.Pe celălalt plan, Bean își împarte puținul timp rămas între Petra, căutarea embrionilor pierduți și consolidarea puterii lui Peter.
(view spoiler)[Conștient de evoluția implacabilă a bolii sale, Bean acceptă oferta Colonelului Graff de a pleca în spațiu o dată ce Peter va avea controlul Pământului, luându-i cu el pe cei trei copii ce i-au moștenit anomalia genetică și sperând că relativitatea călătoriei le va oferi suficient timp cercetătorilor pentru descoperirea unui tratament.
We finally get to see Peter unite the world in this book; however, it’s all just backdrop to the real real story, starring Bean and his wife Petra, which is about how families and love and having children and Mormonism are wonderful and Islam is stupid.
Couldn’t Card have dropped Bean entirely and just told a story about Peter coming out from the anonymity of the Net to enter politics, eventually becoming Hegemon, and eventually using his nearly-useless office and title to form a world government uniting peoples instead of governments?
I think the most interesting thing about this book is what it sets up to happen in the next book ...[SPOILERS FOLLOW]He left it wide open for a new series about an Achilles re-mix, the genetic offspring of Bean, with Beans brilliant-but-fatal condition, but raised by a woman who thinks Achilles is a poor misunderstood brilliant leader.
She takes him off to a colony world, which means he'll be time-delayed just like Bean's other wonder-kids which he takes into space with him.
The other interesting part of the book was this idea that Volescu was planning to release a genetic virus that would make every new kid have Bean's disease.
Card shows redemption working in the most unexpected characters, of which Peter is only the most central, and his latter scenes allow for the existence and goodness of a God who has, as in Psalm 18, 'made darkness his hiding place.' It was those things, even more than the sorrow, that put my eyeliner to the test.
Now that it’s over it feels as if Card doesn’t have to slavishly return to the conflict as he repeatedly did in the last book.
As I have said before, I am invested in these characters and will continue reading what Card has to offer in this universe even after the Ender and Shadow series are over.By reading in their entirety the Ender and Shadow series in the Ender’s Game universe, I can honestly and confidently say that there are two books which are must-reads—Ender’s Game and Ender’s Shadow.
This was an almost completely satisfying conclusion for the Shadow series.
I just wish that girl, Randi, would have gotten smacked around a bit.But I really enjoyed that this addition to the series had more of the war games than the last.
Shadow of the Hegemon and Shadow of the Giant are my favourites of the Shadow series for that reason.
I also enjoyed having some sort of conclusion for all of the other characters, such as Alai.
I really enjoyed his character.
Being a very different kind of brilliance from the other characters really made him stand out.
I was left feeling very satisfied.
Can't fault the "active, intelligent and independent" female characters, but to have them all (pretty much) decide that family life was their one-true-calling and everything else is subsidiary, and that somehow Petra is the bad guy for following her intelligence rather than her womb until the Very Last Minute is just...
It was a real treat to see these kids grow up and find out what happens to every story line.While I don't want to give anything away, the end of this book is basically a dream for any fan of the series.
Ever since I started the Shadow series, I've wanted one conversation to happen, and OSC does not fail in the powerful and moving dialogue which closes the final chapter of this series.I'm a little torn about having Ender in Exile to follow up this book as I feel like I don't need anything else from these characters...however, as I said above, I feel like I've seen all these kids grow up and thus, I want to know as much as I can about their lives.
Orson Scott Card concludes his shadow series brilliantly in this novel, which details the search for Bean and Petra’s missing children and the onset of world peace under the Hegemon’s rule.
Throughout the novel, Graff, Rackham, and Peter all encourage Ender’s army to abandon Earth and colonize other planets, pointing out the fact that if they do not, millions of soldiers will die in the scramble for supremacy.
And, while the world domination comes to an end, the saga of these nonhuman children is left open, which will surely lead to another novel.
In short, the Battle School children, bred for a hunger to lead and an ambition for power, return to their homes and destabilize the world.
I'm speaking Common.
'It fuzzes your brain.''It also makes you fart,' said John Paul.
'And it's sweet of you to care.''We're just looking out for your image,' said Theresa.'I only fart when I'm alone.''Since he does it in front of us,' said john Paul to Theresa, 'what exactly does that make us?''I meant 'in private,'' said Peter.
'And flatulence from carbonated beverages is odorless.''He thinks it doesn't stink,' said John Paul.Peter picked up his glass and drained it, 'And you wonder why I don't look forward to these little family get-togethers?'"-John Paul, Theresa, and Peter Wiggin p.
От дребосък до гигант, засенчващ дори Ендър: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/s...
Но животът си течеше, нови книги се сипеха непрестанно и така и не се заех сериозно с това ми намерение.
Докато преди известно време съвсем случайно в една книжарница в куп книги втора ръка не открих “Shadow of the Giant”, която е точно следващата неиздадена след трите от линията за Бийн – “Сянката на Ендър”, “Сянката на Хегемона” и “Сянката на марионетките”.
При това не просто следващата, а завършващата тази серия.
Купих си я веднага, разбира се, но чак сега, отпускно, намерих време за нея.http://knigolandia.info/book-review/s...
The Bean and Petra relationship felt kind of forced a few books ago, but just as I was starting to get used to it she tells Dink Meeker of all people that she’s still in love with him in an email, but not as much as Bean.
Then after Bean goes off world to find a cure for his gigantism, she falls in love with Peter almost instantly, which is just ridiculous.
Moral of the story, I don’t need the romantic subplots in this story (not that I don’t love them in other stories, because I really do) just give me the military genius of the greatest minds this world has to offer.
I am SO done with the series of sermons about biological determinism that these books have become. I will probably just keep going in the hope that’s I eventually like another as much as the first few. Peter is still good in this one, but only really in the last fifth of the book. And that’s the only good thing I can say. Card is of course great at writing political machinations, but that’s not enough for me to ignore everything like the heterosexism and pretty blatant Islamophobia.
Fantastic just fantastic. I miss the characters already ;((( but still I feel they will be forever in my heart.
I did not enjoy this book.
I give 5 stars on this review not only because Giant was a great book by itself, but it also ends the series with the greatness it deserves.Here is the order you should read the Ender books by Orson Scott Card:1) Ender's Game2) Ender's Shadow (The same story as Ender's Game, but from Bean's pov.)3) Shadow of the Hegemon4) Shadow Puppets5) Shadow of the GiantYou might speak to others who would add the direct sequals to Ender's Game: Speaker for the Dead, Xenocide, and Children of the Mind.
I think that, once again, Orson Scott Card has delivered an incredible book to continue the story that started with an undersized street urchin.
Bean is trying to help Ender's brother Peter unite the world under one government.
This is my favorite series, so I was thrilled getting the chance to read every book in it.
Bean only has a certain amount of time, and things need to get done.
It is also great to read about Peter's work trying to unite the world.
This is a series that I will continue to read, and I think everyone else should at least give it a try.
The side plot of Bean and Petra seemed a bit forced and the dramatic swings of character attitudes and emotions just didn’t seem altogether realistic to me.
The story really picked up and drew me to the end of the book very well and I was about to give this novel four stars until Virlomi.
Card is a good story teller and if you ignor his somewhat flat characters and his sometimes odd and oversimplified plot moves, this is an enjoyable read.
If you made it through Shadow of the Hegemon and Shadow Puppets, you’ll definitely want to read this book.
I don't even know why I'm leaving a review; if you're already reading the series, you HAVE to read this one, too -- and if you're not reading the series yet, you MUST read Ender's Game first, so at no point will this review reach anyone who is trying to decide whether or not to read this book.However, if you've already read the novel, then a few things may come to mind.
Reading the Ender series of books is well worth my time, and it's worth reading even though I think that you are personally a very evil person.
After having the revelation about his parents in a prior book, he seems to be back to his old ways of discounting them.The thing about Bean and Petra with Bean leaving seemed like a re-run of an argument that they had in the last book, but Petra never said "We already decided this!" That seemed wrong.Virlomi is definitely a case study in believing your own PR.Interesting thought of exporting the battle schoolers.
The IF said that they were running out of money.
It made it more story-like.
I thought it was unfair to say that she liked her job as well as she liked her family.
Reading this book out of order was one of the best mistakes I've ever made.
Thinking that it followed directly after Shadow of the Hegemon, I read this one next and skipped Shadow Puppets entirely.
(Funny what titles do to your focus as you read, isn't it?)Shadow of the Giant is the story I was hoping for when I started Shadow of the Hegemon, and I'm glad I got to it without having to wade through another book of setup.
I may go back and read Shadow Puppets eventually, but for now I don't feel the need.
It may be cheesy, but if cheese can get a normally callous guy like me to make water come out of my face, then it has to count for something.This book dived more deeply into the emotional world of loving and losing, which I was frankly unprepared for.
I'm used to happy endings.Other than that, it focused a lot on a large set of characters which were all quite interesting.
Its as if the book was running out of pages, so everything magically gets better.It is likely that I may come back to this book and read it again in the future.
The battle school grads went from being all good-guys, united against the evil Achilles, to real humans whose flaws led them to make mistakes.
We also find out exactly why Peter was not accepted into battle school.
I can definitely see another book about Bean's children, especially the one who remained hidden.
Volescu is sent into space, where he is supposedly working on a "cure" for Anton's key.
I wondered if he had anything to do with the virus entwined with the life cycle of the piggies on Lusitania.
He doesn't actually WANT to find a cure for Anton's key, so I wonder what will happen to Bean.
Finally finished with all the Ender's Books.
I made the mistake of reading Ender in Exile before reading Shadow of the Giant.
Don't make that mistake.
A good portion of Shadow of the Giant is summarized in Ender in Exile.
This book actually made me cry near the end.
I don't cry very easily especially while reading Sci-fi books but my mother's heart ached while reading parts of this book and the tears just came.I think when the next and I think final book in the series comes out I will take the time to reread this series.
About 9 years later i see it in Barnes and Noble and remembered how much i liked the book and i was surprised how much i remembered the story, I bought it read it again and thought " Yeah, the same holds true now" (well for me anyway).
So i decided to read Ender's Shadow since i found out it took place during Ender's Game, after reading it I came to like Bean more than Ender because he was just more intesting and he had a cruel destiny.
After finishing this book I'm left thinking, I hope Bean's story/life ends well.
Wow. Card is the master at spinning a tale of political intrigue, inter-personal relations and conquering the world.
and sent them each to their own destinies.That being said, however, I still want to know what happened with the stories that he sent out into the great unknown.
Probably because they continued the stories of characters that I already knew (loved, hated, etc - I *knew* them).
The weaving together of cultures, personalities and politics is truly unmatched in any other author that I have read.
Card does this so superbly, that I don't want him to ever stop writing these stories.
This final installment of the Shadow series does indeed deliver all that was promised - Peter the Hegemon unites the nations of Earth under a single government - as foretold in the final pages of Ender's Game.
Much of the story is delivered via dialogue between the main characters which may sound interesting to fans of George V Higgins and Elmore Leonard.
Unfortunately, Higgins or Leonard did not write this book, and Card has no gift for dialogue.
The Shadow series has flashes of interesting moments but after reading all four volumes you'll likely wish they had been boiled down into a single book.
And you know what?
And I know them, and care for them.
In my review of Shadow Puppets, I declared that the jeesh members were only interesting to us in that they were related still to Ender.
In a way, in Shadow of the Giant, it was another Wiggin that they revolved around- these characters did serve to reflect Peter and build his story, but they each also took on their own distinct character and value.
Again I say, OSC finally spoke their stories.
And, most importantly, he finally gave us Peter the Hegemon.
A Wiggin as worthy of admiration as Ender.
