https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/284440.Skulduggery_Pleasant
And as this world tightens its clutches around her, Stephanie starts to believe that though her Uncle’s novels were horror, they were definitely not fiction.Lightened up by the funny and sarcastic lines from Skulduggery (like, "For a guy with no internal organs, you've got quite the ego." "And for a girl who can't stand up without falling over, you're quite the critic." "My leg will be fine." "And my ego will flourish.
“Doors are for people with no imagination.” I will always remember when I first read this.
I was over at a friend's house when her older sister, Emma, recommended it to me.
"I just know you'll love it," she told me when she handed her copy over.You have to understand that, at this point, I wasn't a big reader.
Yeah I didn't mind reading, but I also didn't love it.
I didn't sit down for hours on end with a book in my hand.
I didn't value the power of words as much as I do no
I can't express to you in words how thankful I am that Emma gave me this very book.
This series, however surprising it may seem to you, was the series I could go to whenever I felt scared or sad.I know people would think me silly that this series could mean something to anyone -- hell I'm not even sure Derek Landy understands himself.
Although a few days ago I read the last page of the very last book with teary eyes, I will read this series again and again and again and I will always love what Derek Landy has created.
I loved discovering this book; I thought it had a very fun mixture of magic, action, creepiness, and humor--plus, I really love the title character :-)
Keine Ahnung, warum ich so lange für dieses Buch gebraucht hab, ich fands sehr unterhaltsam.
It's the memory of the book and the utter enjoyment I felt while reading it which gave it four stars.Skulduggery Pleasant is a series I discovered during my first year at high school.
I was on a vampire kick after falling in love with Twilight but figured I should read something else instead of re-reading the series for the 50th.
Due to this, I found many of my favourite series of today including City of Bones, Vampire Academy and Skulduggery Pleasant.
I have re-read City of Bones and Vampire Academy several times, but for some reason, I had never re-read this particular book.
Ich schwanke hier zwischen 3 und 4 Sternen, drum gebe ich einfach 3,5 (danke Goodreads für nichts übrigens 🙄😅).
Ich fand den Hurmor/Sarkasmus in dem Buch echt klasse und auch der Plot war gut durchdacht.
Für ein Middlegrade Buch kam auch die Spannung nicht zu knapp und es wurde sich an die Logik des erdachten Universums gehalten, was bei mir immer Pluspunkte gibt.
Das Ende macht dann auf jeden Fall auch Lust auf mehr.Und wer keine Lust hat das Buch zu lesen, kann ich noch das Hörbuch empfehlen, welches es kostenlos auf Spotify gibt.
Habe mal in ein, zwei Kapitel reingehört und fand es echt auch gut vertont 👍🏻🔈
When I heard the explanation, I was like, "Okay then." At some points, I'm skeptical that he's so blase about 12-year -old Stephanie going along with him on some very dangerous adventures.
In a way, it was pretty obvious that Stephanie pretty much got away with a lot more than you'd expect for her age with them.I like that the tone of this book stays intense but with some good humor.
It has a lot of good action, and Skulduggery can fight, with his fists, with his trusty sidearm, and with his elemental magic.
a re-read and like always so worth the time
“Doors are for people with no imagination.” Initial Final Page Thoughts.When I grow up I want to be Stephanie Edgley. High Points.Skulduggery Pleasant. Stephanie. Banter, so much banter. Dublin. Witty prose. Canary Cars. Supporting characters. Cloak and daggers shizz. Willpower. Magic. Raising Cain. The Girl from Ipanema. A fantastic start to a promising series. Low Points.As much as I love Skulduggery and Stephanie, I would have liked there to have been more time spent with the other character
Low Points.As much as I love Skulduggery and Stephanie, I would have liked there to have been more time spent with the other characters.
Tanith Low and Ghastly to be precise… but I’m guessing this is where the other books in the series come into it…Heroine/Hero.Stephanie was a brilliant heroine and I wish I was like her when I was twelve.
Seeing as this is the first book of a series, it’s difficult to really gage this level seeing as we don’t really know much about the characters and their past just yet.
Recommended For.People who are looking for a new magical series to get stuck into.
The world history the author created was also excellently done with great attention to detail without going on about irrelevant everyday things (trust me this happens a lot in YA fantasy books).The writing style was also really good as it was done in a really fast and suspenseful style and the plot flowed along really nicely so there wasn’t a dull moment.
Valkyrie and Skulduggery make an excellent team and I honestly, at this present moment, can’t see where this could go wrong because this author is so skillful.
I really tried to like this book.
The character writing was superficial and especially the heroine, Stephanie, did not convince me at all.
She is just 12 years old, but scared of nothing.
She escapes and survives every fight, no matter with who, with ease, and dominates Skulduggery, a 400 year old powerful detective, in just about every dialogue:"Gordon was my friend.
Stephanie was surprised by how clean and bright and ordinary-looking it was.
She didn't know what she was expecting - mannequins that came alive and tried to eat you, perhaps.
I don't know what it is, but most books don't get into the real dry sarcastic epic humour.
Skulduggery and Stephanie are the most epic banter pair of ever.
Like this: Skulduggery: "Things are going to get a bit rougher from here on in, and I need someone to fight by my side.
Which makes me feel grand kinship to this skeleton of awesome.
I was a little disappointed it wasn't solely focused on solving mysteries though.
I did like Stephanie, how stubborn yet nice she was.
And, between doing so, I will comfort myself in the fact that I, too, make jokes like an epic Skeleton.
Skulduggery Pleasant is Derek Landy's first book for children, and the second is already in the can, which is a Very Good Thing.
Or Indiana Jones, perhaps as played by Hugh Grant.It's fairly unusual in contemporary children's literature to find a leading man per se: that is, an adult male that carries the book.
Skulduggery Pleasant is written from the point of view of its main female character, an eleven-year-old girl named Stephanie Edgely, but it's Skul who drives the action.
More than your usual preternaturally resourceful girl protagonist, she is written from the inside out, and feels very real, though a bit devoid of background.
*** 4/27/18 $1.99 for Kindle ***Detective story with a fantasy twist.
Skulduggery Pleasant is a sentient skeleton, detective, who also can do magic.
He's good natured, with a delightfully dry wit.
Stephanie is spunky, clever and pretty quick witted herself.
Their good natured bickering and conversations often had me chuckling out loud.
Their relationship is what I liked best about this story."Being a detective isn't all about torture and murder and monsters.
This is a "good guys vs.
bad guys" story so there is some violence, nothing too graphic but may be too much for younger children.
Serpine will have won only when there is no one left to stand against him.
Until then, there is only the struggle, because tides do what tides do–they turn.Skulduggery Pleasant is a novel about a skeleton detective and his sidekick Stephanie.
This novel did not surprise me, because I kind of got what I expected: a thrilling, funny and fast read that I would enjoy very much.
Not in a long time did I read a book about a magic system quite like this one.
All in all, it was an amazing novel, and I can't wait to continue on with the series.
[Note: from the charming Georgina's comments on this review, I've come to believe I am too far outside the age range.
I still believe what I wrote, it's just that the concerns of my review are mostly irrelevent to the book's average reader.
Children can be clever, creative, work in groups, et cetera but having them physically fight adults 1-on-1 strains credulity....oh, and not all adults are doofuses....oh, and saving the world is a bit ambitious for the first book of a series.
You'd have to save the solar system in the second book, then the galaxy in the third book, and then you don't have a lot of options for the fourth book.
Es war richtig cool und super witzig! Ich freue mich schon auf Band 2. :)
Bulgarian reviewRight now I don't feel like I need to express myself at all.5 stars says it all ^^
Plot:  This story takes place around a 12 year old girl named Stephanie who inherits her late uncles estate and is quickly thrown into a world she didn't know existed when someone shows up on her uncles door step wanting something and she has no idea why this man is there.
I really liked Stephanie as a main character it was good to finally enjoy a story with a main character who really was open to the fact that things might not be as they seem and was ready to accept and continue what her uncle started.
(*this time I know it's for real, I've got to break free!*)“Doors are for people with no imagination” – Skulduggery Pleasant “The only currency worth anything is being true to yourself, and the only goal worth seeking is finding out who you truly are.” – Uncle GordonWARNING – this review is a collection of random notes and quotes, that should allow you to get a feel of that book.
She wasn’t too fussed about the shelves.” I LOVE her thought process!HOW ABOUT WRITING?Descriptions are eloquent, but Stephanie sounds and acts like a 12 year old girl.
Interesting odd little book, a dead wizard...sort of.
Well, I mean he's a skeleton, and you know, no skin or organs...but he's not really dead.
It did strike me as odd how the reaction to a walking, talking skeleton didn't freak Stephanie out more completely.Not a bad book, help track down the Faceless ones...if you dare.
(or is that bwa-ha-ha?)Some have suggested that there are some similarities between the Faceless Ones and Lovecraft's Great Old Ones...interesting in a youth book don't you think?If you're a parent, maybe you want to read this one first, just a thought.
Not great but not bad.
The fantasy world the author creates is also one with a serious touch of darkness and horror, but all mixed with humour and snark, as expected for a middle grade book.
And yes, those names :0) The magic itself is interesting too, featuring two main veins, the Adepts and the Elementals.This first instalment is highly entertaining but also plays the role of setting the scene for the rest of the series.
Even from the first book, Landy places some clues here and there that reveal themselves further on, hinting at a huge plot arc, one I can’t resist re-visiting.

This includes the friendship of Skullduggery Pleasant, a wry, sarcastic sorcerer who became a walking, talking skeleton after a run-in with an evil sorcerer.
After they meet, Stephanie and Skullduggery work together to stop the evil sorcerer.
Stephanie's an average person, but with her adventures with Skullduggery, learns there's a wider world of magic around her, and wants in.
She proves herself repeatedly with her quick thinking, and gains Skullduggery's respect and mentorship by the end of the book.
I liked Stephanie, and her relationship with Skullduggery, and I particularly liked how capable and smart she showed herself to be in many odd and often quite dangerous situations.
I've heard so much about Skulduggery Pleasant and i finally decided to give it a try myself. I've always been drawn to these books, although i never had enough bravery to start them, because they are so many, but right now i'm glad i read the first one. It was really fun, easy to read and i can definitely see how the world is going to become even more complicated and interesting. Great beginning!
First read in 2013Second read in July, 2014Third read 22 September, 2015Audio book read 28 October 2016 Reading this series feels like coming home. I love it so, so much. The characters are awesome. The dialogue is Whedon-worthy. And it's just really clever and fun. Favourite series of all time for sure.
This Middle Grade story has the perfect blend of action, magic, and humor. Skulduggery is a great character with a darkly dry wit. The plot itself is a tad predictable for adults, but it’s a story you’ll enjoy reading to children, who will also love it. I listened to this over two days on a road trip. The audio narrator did a good job, but sometimes his voice got so low, it was hard to hear.
SO GOOD.
Страшно забавна книга! Имаше много действие, битки и всякакви епични неща. Самите герои бяха изключително добре измислени, хубаво странни и остроумни.Скълдъгъри е мега големият пич, но ако трябва да съм напълно честна, Танит Лоу ми е най-любимият герой от книгата. Страшно ми хареса колко борбено и готино мъжко момиче е! Стефани малко ме дразнеше на моменти с всичкото си оплакване, мрънкане и досадничене, ама все пак е на 13. Простено й е :D Имайки предвид, че поредицата е от цели 9 книги, все още не съм сигурна дали искам да продължавам, защото това си е доста голяма отдаденост.
One of the best children's urban fantasy books ever. The plot is interesting, the heroine strong and intelligent (and a girl!), and the book is genuinely funny. I listened to the audio version and the reader is exceptional. I laughed out loud many times and couldn't wait to listen to the next one.
