https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1697613.The_Case_of_the_Careless_Kitten
I challenge anybody to call the following guy cute and keep a straight face:So let us go back in time when the dinosaurs rules the Earth, and the Internet and mobile phones did not exists: I am talking about the middle of the last century of cause.
Coming back to Helen, she received a phone call one day supposedly from her disappeared uncle.
This indiscretion ultimately resulted into a very complicated mystery with plenty of red herrings and plot twists which puzzled even Perry Mason himself until practically the very end.
THE CASE OF THE CARELESS KITTEN.
***1/2.Once Gardner thinks up a strange clue for Perry Mason to follow up, there is no stirring him from his goal.
There is a kitten in this case.
There are of course legal heirs in the wings who want to get their money.
Perry Mason is retained to represent one of the heirs, and, before anything else, must help to prove or disprove the existence of the long-lost husband.
– the kitten clues become critical in solving the case.
In The Case of the Careless Kitten Perry Mason is once again doing his level best to get his client declared "Not Guilty"...the difference is, this time his client is Della Street!Ten years ago Helen Kendal's uncle and town banker, Franklin Shore, disappeared.
A good beginning, a great courtroom scene, but a bit too complicated at the end. Even after Perry gives the solution, I'm still not sure how he figured it out nor whether all the clues were there. Bonus: some nice lovey-dovey stuff between Perry and Della.
Well, what can i say about Perry Mason?
It was an interesting story as always, with intrigue and twists after twists.
I couldn't tell who the culprit was...i like it when a book surprises me.
One would think i would enjoy finding out who the culprit is after so many "crime" books i have read but it's the opposite.
Since i have read hundreds of books, if i reach the end without knowing for sure, or having any clue, it means the plot was really well written.
The latter is very common with Perry Mason's stories.
another good crime story from Garnder...I really do like Perry Mason (and hey, he was asking for Della's hand!:)))It was good to read a crime novel set in the 40s in US - I think this should be an amazing time.Already seeking for the next Perry Mason novel I can read.
It is also refreshing to see in Matilda Shore a woman who is not described as seductive, though the sexist stuff continues as in" a woman with "very exciting violet eyes...nice chassis, nice assembly" and the ambiguity of Mason's relationship with Della Street.I enjoy much of the cultural history in older works of fiction, As usual in the Mason series, everyone smokes and does so as often as possible.
Mason sets forth all the clues which led to his conclusions, and they are all crystal clear in the text and possible to decipher if you notice things carefully as you read the story.
Of all the Perry Mason cases I've read, I enjoyed this one the most, although the "careless" thing was certainly a stretch and a bit overworked.
I was totally fooled by the outcome in the case.
One other thing that made me bristle was the description of and references to a "Korean" houseboy who was mistaken as being a "Jap." After finally consulting the copyright, I found that this was first published in 1942 so the language would make absolute sense for the time period.
All in all, I really enjoyed it and would recommend it to any lover of mystery novels.
Daqueles thrillers que se descobre tudo no capítulo final e que ao longo do livro vão nos dando pistas para os leitores no final dizerem como é que não percebeu aquilo antes.... Não sendo mau, não é espectacular. Uma leitura rápida. Gostei do papel do gato na história. Diferente. Gostei da escrita do autor mas achei a história e as revelações finais meio óbvias, principalmente a quem foi atribuída a responsabilidade dos acontecimentos.
I might be extremely biased but I just love all the Perry Mason books that Erle Stanley writes. There's something about the small details that really intrigues you. And for the life of me, I could never guess who the actual murderer is until the big reveal. It always leaves me with the sense of 'Ah! I should have known!' but nope. I never know.
Amazing book. I had forgotten how much I had missed Perry Mason till I read this. Gripping from start to finish and since I don't have a cat or know anything about them I had to wait till the last chapter to see how it went... But Mason is right I was as stupid as Burger... ;)
Que gatinho travesso!!!!!Que mentes criminosas brilhantes!Bastante bom!
Absolutely brilliant.
If you read the whole story you see there is no racism implied by the author, that is, this isn't one of those books/movies where all Japanese people are evil and all non-Japanese people are good.
Sadly racism from books of this period is all too common.
Your choices are to either never read books from this period, choose from the few saints who wrote at this period that weren't racist, or just accept that there was rampant racism at that time period and try to enjoy the story anyway.
Perry Mason é um advogado famoso encarregue de defender duas pessoas no meio deste caso!O livro começa bem, com o gato a ter aquele destaque todo e com o mistério à volta do seu envenenamento e com o telefonema do suposto regresso misterioso de Franklin.
Mas, a partir de uma certa altura todo o mistério do desaparecimento e do envenenamento do gato fica um bocado esquecido e o livro torna-se num emaranhar de testemunhas não se entendendo muito bem qual o papel de cada uma no caso, ou melhor, qual a sua utilidade para o resolver.A parte que mais gostei foi a pseudo-resolução do caso, porque apenas uma parte é posta em pratos limpos, ficando demasiadas pontas soltas para resolver.
Sounds OK.It wasn't as gripping as it should be, though.
It's hard to actually point out the problem - the mystery, check.
The pace, check.
The characters, check.
And then the ending was abrupt and based on a fact that wasn't disclosed earlier (or that I simply slept over).
It wasn't satisfying, but I was still glad that the book was over.
It wasn't tiring or boring read, just...
boring.I probably won't be borrowing more Gardner books if I can find other reads.It doesn't mean that people won't enjoy it, though.
Perry Mason finds himself trying to solve a murder involving the dysfunctional Shore family.
Matilda Shore's husband Frederick disappeared some 10 years ago and his legacy has been held in limbo ever since.
When Helen receives a phone call from someone claiming to be Frederick and asking to meet her, she confides in her uncle who in turn consults Perry.
They set off to meet the man only to find a stranger dead in the car.
Helen is convinced the man on the phone is Frederick as he knew personal details from her childhood that only he would know.
Matilda soon finds herself in the hospital having been poisoned.
I had always heard that Erle Stanley Gardner's books did not withstand the test of time and were pointless to read.
Thought this book was loads of fun and managed to breeze through it on my breaks during work (so very, very fast read).
No matter how many times Lieutenant Tragg is depicted as suave or young, I'll still forever envision him as the turtle-like Tragg on the TV.
The book was witty and engrossing and I liked the focus on Della Street.
Will now try to read them all.
A bit of racism (a houseboy is accused of being Japanese and indignantly claims to be Korean) is understandable in wartime 1942.Perry Mason series - Ten years ago, banker Franklin Shore left all his money behind, disappeared, and was presumed to be dead.
The logical suspect is Gerald Shore, Franklin's brother, who's long been shut out of what he'd considered his rightful share of Franklin's estate.
When a key witness is missing, the police say it's Franklin Shore, vanished again.
Mason has two clients to defend against criminal charges -- Gerald Shore, and his own secretary, Della Street
Early into WWII and again Gardner sidesteps the whole shebang. He does mention one man enlisted in the army, in training camp (a minor player) and there are slurs against a Korean (read Japanese houseboy). 1942 was still the era of the houseboy. The story line did nothing for me. A missing relative, money is at stake--Gardner's gone over this ground before. Della is arrested (briefly) for stepping into Perry's shenanigans. They seem to like to dance it "island tunes." And someone, somewhere is always eating ham and eggs or a steak dinner (medium rare) in Perry Mason.
Perry Mason defends Della Street after she's caught tampering with a witness. ESG veers a little from the formula here by starting out with the client's family. Plus Paul Drake's on vacation and there's no comeuppance scene with Hamilton Burger because Perry Mason solves the mystery but keeps it to himself because he's been told to stay out of the way. The mystery was a bit too clever for my taste and the racism a too bit heavy-handed. So, overall, it turns out I love Perry Mason best when the story is completely formulaic, so this was a no go.
I think Donna's review really sums this one up. There were some good elements (I liked seeing Perry Mason run rings around Hamilton Burger in the courtroom) and some bad ones (in particular, the subplot with the Korean houseboy was very poorly done). And the mystery itself was needlessly complex, and hinged on some weird clues that I'm not sure an average person would pick up. The ending felt rushed, trying to tie everything up into a bow. It was entertaining, but not the best Mason I've read.
One character gives a long speech about how careless the kitten in the story is, which seemed unrealistic and rather silly.A young woman receives a call from a long-lost uncle who wants her to meet him -- and to bring famous lawyer Perry Mason along with her.
Around the same time, the woman's kitten is poisoned, and she takes him off to the vet to be saved.The big plus of this book is that Della Street plays a larger role in this entry than in some of the others, and it makes the court case interesting.
The first case yet which doesn't have any murder committed during the story. Plus, this time Mason is defending not an unknown client in court, but his own secretary Della Street. Though, the mystery of solving the reappearance of Franklin Shore, who disappeared some ten years ago, was interesting; but the lack of explanations and proofs for Mason's theories made the whole case a little uninteresting.
A careless kitten becomes the key clue to solve a case. Perry Mason shows his faith in the institution of the Jury by giving them just the clue, without explaining the consequences. Mason explains them in detail to Della Street (and to the reader) in the last chapter, well after the judicial decision. But the reader (at least this reader) cannot help asking: what if the members of the Jury had not been as clever (or as tough) as Mason? His client, and himself, would have suffered accordingly.
So far this has been my favorite Perry Mason novel. It has quickly paced dialogue between Perry, Della and Paul and murder of course but my favorite character that spars with Perry is Lieutenant Tragg. Berger and Mason moments are great too. The plot flips back and forth and all night investigations bring every character out combing the city either uncovering clues or trying to cover them up.....and Della is Perry's client in this one! Classic.
Fair. The solution is a bit too complex. The clues are there but in a highly irregular usage. Lt. Tragg improves as a character. He is in error but he's not dumb or malicious as Sgt. Holcomb usually is. Burger is still too much of a caricature. He needs a characteristic other than “anti-Mason.” The houseboy was a good red herring, playing off the wartime yellow scare.
Here's a more rambunctious Perry Mason story with some of his typical tropes: a mysterious reappearance after an absence of years, an all-night chase of witnesses and evidence, the trial you didn't expect, and some twitting of our ever-suffering DA Hamilton Burger. Plus a little pet psychology.
A bit of drama but again an average mystery.
This is one of my favorite Perry Mason novels.
