https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121792.The_Revenge_of_the_Baby_Sat
I think it's safe to say that I will read every Calvin and Hobbes book that has ever been written and none of them will ever receive a rating of less than 5 stars.
I love Calvin and Hobbes. Freakin' Awesome as always.
Do you know as there are some things which never fail in cheering you up?
A hot chocolate on a cold night, some leisure time laying on the grass on a sunny day, a cold beer with a friend and a Bill Watterson's book.
We then grew up, life got in the way, things got complicated, and much of the innocence was lost along the way.
While reading this books, I feel like looking at the world through a child's lenses.
I only desire that we would use it a little more in our busy adult life.
Thank you, Bill Watterson, for this opportunity.
All the usual delightful and poignant Calvin hijinks are in this collection in addition to a couple rather honest emotional strips that kind of amazed me in their honesty (Calvin's parents' unease after returning from vacation to find their home was broken into; and, little moments like Calvin asking his mother to tell him she loves him before he comes down out of the tree expecting to be in huge trouble). Normally, I find myself identifying with Calvin or Hobbes, but this volume reminded me how well Watterson captures parenthood.
I was crushed when Watterson decided to discontinue the Calvin and Hobbes series of comic strips for adults, so I bought all the trade paperbacks.
I ran into one the other day while dusting some book shelves (not my favorite activity).
I had read it before but these characters never get old and are iconic as far as I am concerned.
So over lunch, I read it again and it was just as enjoyable as the first time.
If you have never dipped your toe into the world of Calvin and Hobbes, you are missing quite a treat.
I love Calvin who never wants to bathe, or go to bed, let alone wake up, and go to school. He philosophizes on problems such as how could Santa Claus finance his business, and why do the ants work constantly? I also love Hobbes who pounces on Calvin every day, and I guess he is Calvin’s better half, at least he is trying. (“We’ll get in trouble...”) My absolute favorite in this volume is Calvin’s Mother’s Day poem (“Did you notice the part about my allowance?”).
I think this one's my favorite Calvin and Hobbes collection. In it, Mr. Watterson tries his hand at a couple of more "serious" storylines, namely the "Propeller Beanie" tale and the sequence in which Calvin's home gets burgled. I think he handled both tales well, melding realistic events with Calvin's weird take on reality. And, of course, there's the usual Calvinity afoot, including the origin of G.R.O.S.S. (I would have thought that institution had started earlier in the strip's history. Good thing I'm rereading the collections so I can get things straight, eh?)
What can I say about Calvin and Hobbes that has not already been said? I grew up reading about Calvin's crazy adventures and imaginative world. When I became a father I bought these for my son and he has a pile of Calvin and Hobbes books that are splashed all over his bed. He sometimes comes out of his room laughing and wanting to show me "another one", and I have enjoyed reading them all over again, especially with my son.
'Calvin & Hobbes' é uma das duplas mais afamadas da banda desenhada de todos os tempos, e no entanto ainda não tinha tido verdadeiramente contacto com a história destes dois pequenos traquinas que Bill Watterson nos apresenta. Dois livros depois, dizer que estou rendida aos seus encantos é pouco. crítica emhttp://leiturasmarginais.blogspot.pt/...
No matter how many times I read them, I can never get tired of Calvin and Hobbes.
"The Revenge of the Baby-Sat" offers such adventures as that in a funny and entertaining way.This is the fifth installment of the "Calvin and Hobbes" series, and it just gets better every repeated reading.
The title of this book refers to the classic sequence of strips in which Calvin plots revenge on his "demonic" babysitter by kidnapping her homework and threatening to flush it down the toilet.
Book Details: Title The Revenge of the Baby-Sat: A Calvin and Hobbes CollectionAuthor Bill Watterson Reviewed By Purplycookie
I love reading Calvin Hobbes again and again :).
I like all it's character and i like the cartoon.
A mere six year old child Calvin is real interesting character.
His thinking seems so natural as presented by Watterson.
People around Calvin always intercepting him always creating hurdle and he face them in his own challenging way.
This time Calvin has taken her exam notes and locked himself in bathroom threaten her to flush her notes if his demands are are not fulfilled.
this was just one of the events the book is full of Calvin mischiefs his hatred to girls etc etc.
I have nothing to say (or write) about this collection except that it's wonderful and anyone out there (including me) who was late to the C&H party should do themselves a favor and pick it up. I have yet to read a writer of graphic or standard novels who ably described (and so beautifully) the fun and alienating aspects of American boyhood so believably as Bill Watterson does in this (and I suspect his others) collections of this sublime newspaper comic.
Amazing, as always
My first C &B book. A laugh riot.
Having a terrible day?Great, read Calvin and Hobbes.Works like magic!
Once in a while I just got to read a Calvin and Hobbes book. They are just as much fun as they have been 20+ years ago. You can just read them again and again. Love the authors creativity, the little wisdoms and just the plain fun these comic strips have.
Watterson does an amazing job capturing both a child’s and an adult’s emotions, way of thinking, and attitude. Utter brilliance.
GOAT
Watterson was experimenting with different drawing styles during this period - especially on Sunday's strips. I didn't expect such realism from him.
Still needing Trump proof reading at night. Wonderful book. Lets you mind drift off into pleasant chuckling sleep.
Hilarious!!!!!!
funny
Some good, laugh-out-loud moments with this one.
Cute and funny. Feels like a throw back. :) Reminiscent of the past of childhood; the joys and struggles.
Always good for a laugh and some insight. A book from my childhood that I owned.
This is one of the classic comic books I read as a kid. The jokes hold up surprisingly well over the course of time, which is fantastic. Calvin is still the terror we all love and remember. It's so delightful to be able to love a book at any age and Bill Watterson's series is one of those that seems timeless. It's definitely a series I would recommend to others.
One to sit and read and re-read and never get tired of their antics.
But lets get to the really good stuff.We start off with the crazy life of Calvin an stubborn 6 year old boy that has a really really big imagination and determined attitude.
The main idea of this wacky book is probably humor at it's finest.
Calvin also has his right hand man to help him with his wacky adventures...
The conflict in this book is really just the "hard" life of a 6 year old boy.
I should probably end this review right about now so I'm not going to tell you anymore but you can read this book for yourself!
Calvin and Hobbes were a bedrock of my childhood.
I'm estimating I've read each five times but in reality I'd just grab one at random, open at random, and then be lost in the world of Calvinball and Spaceman Spiff, Suzy Derkins and Moe, fantastic snowmen and philosophical walks in the woods with Hobbes.As a kid who lived in his imagination to escape the many difficulties of an unstable childhood and crippling depths of introversion, Calvin embodied that side of me (though I was actually mild-mannered).Hobbes' outsider's views on the flaws of human society and our materialistic culture sank deep and gave some justification to my perpetual feelings of being an outsider.
Maybe this is over-analysis and -attribution, but in retrospect I do see some roots of my ability to accept the belief that I was different in Hobbes' musings.
This one includes some fantastic stories, such as the origins of the super-secret club for only Calvin and Hobbes, G.R.O.S.S.
There is also a much deeper story involving a break-in while the family is away at a wedding (in which Calvin also accidentally leaves Hobbes at home, causing a panic when he fears his tiger has been taken by the thieves.
This leads to some great introspection from Mom, Dad, and Calvin as they consider what has happened.Once again, everyone should have some Calvin and Hobbes in their lives, it's just good sense!
