https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12590.One_Writer_s_Beginnings
For anyone unacquainted with Miss Eudora's literary output, I recommend starting with short fiction ("The Bride of the Innisfallen" is a good starter, followed by "Why I Live at the P.O."), moving on to her chef d'ouevre, the novel The Ponder Heart; this memoir, all 104pp of it, should come after one knows whether one is able to appreciate the particularities and glories of Miss Eudora's work.
One Writer's Beginnings: Eudora Welty's Very Private MemoirI take literary pilgrimages to Mississippi to very different worlds.
From "Why I Live at the P.O." All the way through The Optimist's Daughter and my favorite of all, Losing Battles.Above all things, I have recognized that Welty has the ability to capture in words precise depictions of places and people with the same artistry as the best of photographers.
Welty closes her lesson on finding a voice in this manner:“I am a writer who came from a sheltered life.
There is no doubt that Eudora Welty lived a daring life.
As my initial comment on re-reading One Writer's Beginnings, I will say that I have found Welty's thoughts on family (and especially her parents' influences) and her personal theories of writing even more interesting on this second reading.
So many sections seemed to jump out for me---her relationship with her mother, in particular, and her slowly developing thoughts on being a writer.As I had just read/viewed her book, Country Churchyards, this quote was especially meaningful for me.Photography taught me that to be able to capture transience, by being ready to click the shutter at the crucial moment, was the greatest need I had.
Eudora Welty delivered three lectures at Harvard University in 1983 which were developed into her charming memoir, "One Writer's Beginnings".
She explored events in her own life that were important in becoming a writer.In the first section, "Listening", she tells about the importance of books in her childhood home, her parents teaching her to read, singing, and listening to the stories of the ladies in Jackson, Mississippi.
Welty writes, "Long before I wrote stories, I listened for stories.
I could picture myself on Miss Eudora's front porch swing as I listened to this gentle lady who had wonderful gifts of observation.
This was not written as an autobiography, but rather as 3 short speeches given at Harvard University in 1983.
But taken together, they form what in my mind all autobiographies should be: a reminiscence of early youth and impressions, recollections of family and friends, and acknowledgement of what formed the writer and why.
No name dropping, no sordid tell-all, no getting back at people who hurt you.
It made me nostalgic for times, places and people I've never known.
"As you have seen, I am a writer who came of a sheltered life.
A sheltered life can be a daring life as well.
These speeches-turned-into-print should be of interest to writers and to those who love Eudora Welty's writings, especially her short stories.Like Eudora, I was born in the South and went to a university in Wisconsin (though she doesn't spend too much time talking of her time there), so there was a lot here to 'locate' (a word she uses twice in interesting ways) me.
She was born in 1909, so of course there were differences too.
Last week I read the book again as a professor teaching memoir to honors students.
Every reading has allowed me to notice new things about Welty.This time I focused on the beautiful, dense sentences in this short book.
Learning Latin (once I was free of Caesar) fed my love for words upon words, words in continuation and modification, and the beautiful, sober, accretion of a sentence." What a lovely marriage of meaning and form.The book grew out of a series of three lectures on three different topics: Listening, seeing, and finding a voice.
Welty knows how to connect her senses to the readers'.I especially shivered at the last line of this book.


I knew absolutely nothing about Eudora Welty when I picked up this book. I quite enjoyed her simple retelling of her past, and how she realized she wanted to be a writer. A quick, interesting read.
She gave these lectures in 1983 and so it is that the world I lived in as a small child in the South does touch gently at times the world Eudora writes about.
We, her children, like our father before us, had to learn the lesson that we would never be able to console her for any of them; especially could we not console her for what happened to ourselves."Much food for thought here.
How do writer's learn to write?
Eudora would say that a writer needs to listen and then see before they find a voice.
Therefore, when we teach our children to listen and see and remember we are teaching them to write.
A book to put in your treasure chest.This book is based on a series of lectures (three) given at Harvard in 1983, when Welty was 74 years old.
Here's a snippet from an opening paragraph: When I was young enough to still spend a long time buttoning my shoes in the morning, I'd listen toward the hall; Daddy upstairs  was shaving in the bathroom and Mother downstairs was frying the bacon.
She had me hooked right at the get-go.Nowadays, we hear of people having their house "staged" when preparing to put it on the market.
Well, Ms Welty can "stage" a book.
A book of great sensitivity - as controlled and yet aspiring as a lyric poem.'In One Writer's Beginnings, which was first published in 1984, Welty decided to tell her story in one 'continuous thread of revelation'.
But with the passage of time, I could look back on them and see them bringing me news, discoveries, premonitions, promises - I still can; they still do.'One Writer's Beginnings spans Welty's childhood, and includes comparatively brief reflections about her time at college, and the early days of her writing career.
This little book is a gem for writers, writer wannabes (like me) and lovers of Southern Fiction and the deep south (Jackson, MS!). Eudora Welty's autobiographical storytelling seemed effortless, and it flowed more interestingly than a lot of novels I've read. I loved how she examined little puzzle pieces (poignant vignettes from her growing up years and family history) and put them together to reveal the big picture of her life's work--her fully realized passion for writing. I envy her perspective -- looking back from greatness to the mundane that made her great.
Eudora Welty begins this memoir - which had its origins in a series of lectures delivered at Harvard University in 1983 - with a snapshot of her parents.
The memoir is dedicated to Welty's parents, and all of the best bits are inspired by their sayings and doings and their lives before Jackson, Mississippi.
(Her father grew up on a farm in Ohio, while her mother was from the mountains of West Virginia.) Welty divides her memoir into three parts: Listening, Learning to See and Finding a Voice.
Leggendo le prime pagine di Come sono diventata una scrittrice si resta un po’ interdetti perché, invece di un manuale di scrittura, è “semplicemente” la vita di Eudora Welty.
Scrivere è scoprire «la sequenzialità dell’esperienza» e il libro contiene le relazioni di causa ed effetto che l’hanno resa una scrittrice.
Eudora racconta che da bambina tendeva l’orecchio alle storie; tendere l’orecchio, precisa, è diverso da ascoltare: vuol dire sentirsi parte attiva di una narrazione, avere il bisogno di cogliere il collegamento tra un fatto e l’altro per scoprire come quella materia si connette al flusso della vita.
What amazed me was that this entire story was written from one photograph of a bottle tree!In synopsis, even though I wouldn't consider myself a fan of Welty's and find it unlikely that I would read any more of her writing, I leave with a respect for her ability to allow the reader to feel the awe that she felt for her source(s) of inspiration.
That being said, I still don't think many of the stories told in this book would be of interest to casual readers.
The autobiography's themes are discussed at length in the last few pages of the book, but are very unclear and frequently discarded before then, so that the reader is often unsure what to be looking for (apparently it was "confluence").
It often seems as if Welty includes many stories and details not because they pertain to the themes of the book, or because they necessarily influenced her as a writer, but just because she knew them.
We ended the summer with novels and a new understanding of our own writing processes.
I could love this book if only for the following paragraph:"The events in our lives happen in time, but in their significance to ourselves they find their own order, a timetable not necessarily—perhaps not possibly—chronological.
The time as we know it subjectively is often the chronology that stories and novels follow: it is the continuous thread of revelation." [see Bechdel's Fun Home, how she occasionally uses the same panels to tell a developing story as she grows to understand her parents.]
That said, the book itself didn't capture me and if it weren't for the clever section headings, I would have read this as a series of sometimes-charming vignettes of her life in early 20th century American South.For an account of the integral role literature plays in an author's beginnings, I prefer Jeanette Winterson's Why Be Happy When You Could Be Normal.Bottom line, though, I liked it enough to think I need to read some more Eudora Welty.
Read this for a recent trip to Jackson, Mississippi, home of Eudora Welty.
This is a very short book, just over a hundred pages, but I found out more about her personal feelings and influences from this short volume than I have while carefully digging through several lengthy biographies.
It was a delightful companion for my visit to her home and beautiful gardens in Jackson which helped to give further perspective to her writings and influence.
I was recently told that there is an audio recording of her reading this book which, I imagine, would be wonderful.
I love reading books about writing.
(I'm afraid I have used it to postpone actually doing my own writing!) Some are better than others, of course.
Many contain 'exercises' or prompts to help you get started, break a writer's 'block' or improve your writing overall.
This one has three sections: Listening, Learning to See and Finding a Voice.
In each, one gets the idea of what that means and how she does it.
How she listened, observed and found her voice as well as the voices of her characters.
I don't believe I've read her work but will do so now.
Memorias literarias de Eudora Welty. De una forma brillante y emotiva la autora nos rebela el secreto de su forma de escribir en tres capítulos: 1. Escuchar; 2. Aprender a ver y 3. Encontrar una voz.Es además un texto emotivo en el que Welty habla de sus recuerdos, sus sueños y de como ambos se combinaron desde el primer momento en sus relatos.De lectura imprescindible.
Oh glorious Eudora! A Southern treasure! Be sure to read about the set of Charles Dickens that her mother scrimped and saved to buy. And how, when the house caught on fire, heck with saving the children, Mama ran upstairs through the smoke and flames to save the books by throwing them out the window to safety...
Interesting at times especially a look into what it was like early turn of the 20th Century. Eudora Welty didn't spend much time on her early days as a writer but rather more about her parents and herself as a child.
Oh my goodness -- I am just loving this book. I find myself lingering over certain passages, rereading them, trying to soak up the beautiful narrative.
Harvard found the best writer in the twentieth century to perform these lectures which amount to an autobiography from birth to 30 years of age in Miss Eudora Welty.
So her father moved ahead to Jackson, Mississippi and found a job at the Lamar Life Insurance Company while her mother stayed in West Virginia until it was time for them to be married.
She lived a sheltered life and learned early to listen.
For all serious daring starts from within.” Eudora took the shelter from her life plank by plank.
This little treasure got lost in my bookshelf.
I'm not a writer, but, I especially enjoyed the latter portion where she is in her 70's and remembering her parents motivations, personalities and speculates on their reasons for their actions.
I instantly related to the tiny book my grandmother wrote to my father as a young child.
I received this treasure as a college student and recopied several of the poems throughout my life.
Now I am in my 70's I look differently toward my young parents and speculate on their hopes, dreams and motivations.
This book has one of my favorite Eudora quotes, “Control came imperfectly to all of us.” I got turned on the Eudora by singer Nanci Griffith who said Eudora’s strength was reminding you of the simple sensation of things like the smell in a car during a rainstorm. Best long quote inside: “As you have seen, I am a writer who came of a sheltered life. A sheltered life can be a daring life as well. For all serious daring starts from within.”
I had hoped that Eudora Welty's memoir would be interesting.
I probably would have enjoyed it more if I was familiar with Welty's work.
The first part of the book was a little interesting.
Welty mostly talks about her parents and their histories in the memoir which became increasingly boring the farther I got into it.
I can sort of relate though: if I wrote a memoir I'd probably spend 100 pages talking about my family history, too.
This book will be more interesting to a previous fan of Eudora Welty's novels.
