https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126630.The_Eighth_Day
He asks himself why he doesn't write songs about love.
He replies that he likes to write songs about little things, like houses or chairs.
"Love's kinda big.
I wrote a love song once; in this film I sing it to a lamp." What does that have to do with The Eighth Day?
The Eighth Day is kind of big.
It's a story that spans three continents and fifty years.
It's not really about love I guess, fuck.
It's about this one little slice of the human experience that acknowledges our existence and what we're supposed to do with the slice.
It's an epic story, but it's so small.
I don't often respond emotionally to fiction, but it's been a long time since I've read a novel that was simultaneously so wrenching and so pleasurable.Thorton Wilder's last novel, the Eighth Day (1967), reflects many of the same themes as his much earlier (1927) Bridge of San Luis Rey: the unpredictability of human fate; the desperate instinct many of us feel to find providences in our lives and losses; the gap between the way others see us and our actual thoughts and emotional commitments.
This is the story of two American families, living part by a murder of one father committed by the other.The escape of John Ashley, the accused killer, on the eve of his execution, will show the distress suffered by both families.
On the other hand, the author explores the American society by that time (in the 1960’s), showing all cultural and moral aspects of the main characters.I should confess this was not an easy reading since for me it was a “dry reading” perhaps due the book’s structure.
The murder mystery plays a small role in the book’s background.This novel won the National Book Award in 1968.3* The Eighth DayTR The Bridge of San Luis Rey
It's hard to classify and some of the negative reviews may come from people expecting a specific kind of book that this is not.
It introduces a mystery, but the events of the mystery are only catalyst for the bigger story, so the mystery is not presented in the classic way nor is it very hard to solve.
The purpose of the book is bigger, investigating how people do behave and how they should.
I first read this amid Willa Cather, Hervey Allen (Anthony Adverse) and Thomas Wolfe (not Tom!) novels, with which this shares something in style and intent.
Few have even heard of this under-appreciated, hard-to-find Wilder novel, and though it's not perfect, it's on my short list for the Great American Novel.
THE EIGHTH DAY. (1967). Thornton Wilder. ***. Wilder often said that this was his favorite among all his books. It was his only “real” novel. That form of reality may have been in vogue forty-five-years ago, but the style has gone out of vogue for today’s readers – at least for this reader. The eighth day of the title was the day after the day after the Lord rested. It was the day – probably millions of years long – that would lead to a new type of mankind, one driven by natural selection that w
The mystery centers around two men, John Ashley, a mining engineer in Cowltown, IL, and one of his colleagues, Breckenridge Lansing.
His interaction with his family was totally different than Ashley’s.
It’s as if Wilder has selected the two men to represent Good (or at least pretty good) vs.
When we get back to the present, we finally learn the truth about the so-called murder, and Ashley is ultimately vindicated, and there is a happy ending of sorts.
What we are ultimately led to believe is that Ashley is one of those men high on the evolutionary ladder that the author talks about as being developed during his eighth day.
"I don't believe in miracles, but I couldn't exist if I didn't feel that things like miracles were happening all around me"  I never thought I would finish this book!
And am glad that am still able to read.
Of course, Thornton Wilder was right when he said what he said in the quote above.
He was also right about so many other things he talks about in this book which looks at the history of two families whose paths cross at a significant time in their lives.
I have always been a fan of Thornton Wilder.
This is my third book and I have a fourth which I must now hasten to read.
This is one of my favorite books.
Wilder wrote The Bridge of San Luis Rey when he was 29, exploring whether God plays a role in human society.
40 years later, he comes back in The Eighth Day to the same theme to ponder what it is to be part of the human drama.
The book contains one of my favorite quotes: "He was a link in a chain, a stitch in a tapestry, a planter of trees, a breaker of stones on an old road to a not yet clearly marked destination."
The novel introduces 1 1/2 families worth of unusual but believable characters, all of whom are treated kindly by Wilder.
Eventually we are forced to admit (uncle!) that this isn't a novel at all - it's a tract.
The title refers to the period of secular creation and the characters tiresomely demonstrate how family life freed from conventional religious and moral strictures creates secular saints.
How shameful it would have been for Wilder to realize that his gospel of modern mysticism with its emphasis on success, predestination, and praise is almost indistinguishable from Calvinism.
Роман - это история семьи Джона Эшли.
Но история одного человека это продолжение давно когда-то начатой истории предков и лишь вступление к новой истории."История — цельнотканый гобелен.
Напрасны попытки выхватить из него взглядом кусок шириною больше ладони…"И в руках каждого человека менять этот ход истории."Если бы нам потребовалось описать ад, мы сказали бы, что это место, где нет надежды и где ничто не может измениться: рождение, вскармливание, размножение и смерть — все повторяется словно на огромном вертящемся колесе.
Есть такая муха — она живет, откладывает яйца и умирает — все за один день, — и от нее не остается ничего."
I guess I understand now why critics were for the most part so hard on Eighth Day. The book just doesn't seem to work, to come together in any meaningful way.
Wilder's philosophizing I do find rather more enjoyable, unlike the professional critics who mostly hate it.
I do love Wilder's works, and I wanted so very much to enjoy this book, but whatever Wilder was trying to achieve, I couldn't grasp.
I'll come back to the book later, 5, 10 years from now perhaps, and maybe it will make sense to me then.
I slogged through this book because so many people had such nice things to say about it. As it turns out, I liked it better than I thought I would. First off, this is no fast-paced mystery, although in the end a mystery is solved. Most of what happens in this book happens inside the heads of the four protagonists. The author goes to great lengths to explain the peculiarities in each character. Some action happens but mostly it is about things happening and why they happen (at least why the author believes they happen).
There was a lot of good stuff in here, but overall, it was too much, too ambitious, I thought. This reminded me of East of Eden: a great writer in his waning years trying to write that one last masterpiece. Like East of Eden, I found it longwinded in many places, ponderous, self-important, too much. Although there were many parts of this I like and admired, I eventually got tired of it, and it was getting tedious to read near the end.
An interesting character study with a tangential storyline. Mr. Wilder gets too caught up in the sound of his ponderous prose style for this to be an easy or pleasurable read. He should have listened to himself when he wrote in this novel:The few serious books he had looked into seemed windy, slow-moving, filled with padding...This story could have been a quarter of the size and made a better novel.
The story is great, however the writing style is not very engaging, it keeps you distracted, and skipping pages because it goes on and on and on. There is some great thoughts in it, but you keep continue reading it out of obligation.
there's such a thing as "too epic" in scope I'm afraid. Interesting conceit but iffy execution. Lots of half-baked pseudo-losophy as well.
Крепкий роман, мой стиль, надо читать Уайлдера ещё.
Великий роман.
There's so much to say about this long, wide-ranging and ambitious novel by Wilder (it was the longest novel he wrote, and it won the National Book Award for 1967); the problem is that to say too much would ruin much of the appeal of reading the book by potentially revealing too much of the pattern and the detail of the "history" that Wilder presents the reader with.
Wilder 's novel approaches the events (and the key central details of that afternoon) in a thematic and non-chronological fashion, moving from person to person and backward and forward in time to help the reader develop a larger understanding of the crime, the factors that contributed to it, and the larger damage (and benefit) to the society from the events.
Di Thornton Wilder avevo letto diversi anni fa "Il ponte di San Luis Rey" e mi aveva colpito per l'originalità della trama e l'introspezione psicologica dei personaggi ma il libro che ho terminato di leggere ora è un bellissimo romanzo di ampio respiro che, ambientato negli anni a cavallo tra fine XIX e inizi del XX secolo, ha per protagonisti i "figli dell'ottavo giorno", quelli creati nella seconda settimana della creazione, per dirla alla maniera del dottor Gillies che, nel romanzo, pronuncia il 31 dicembre del 1899 un discorso agli amici che con lui festeggiano l'entrata del nuovo secolo, enfatizzando l'importanza del XX° che sta per iniziare, popolato, a suo dire, da umanità spinta verso un nuovo piano di sviluppo.
I struggled and plodded through this book, and I kept going (and leaving and coming back) because I knew the choices were purposeful and important even if I couldn’t see them immediately.
But it didn’t make the struggle through pages-long, seemingly-pointless paragraphs any less real.In theory and on the surface, this book is a whodunnit mystery.
Because the author posits that time is not so much linear as multidimensional, the story diverges into long tangents that delve into each character’s motivations and outcomes.
Overall, it left me feeling the promised relief of this old AlkaSeltzer “I can’t believe I ate the whole thing” commercials.
I can’t believe I read the whole thing!
A murder mystery where the murder mystery is background.
It is about two families.
One father is accused, tried, and convicted in the fatal shooting of the other.
His family is destitute without him.
Eventually all is revealed, but the longer this goes on the less believable it becomes.
The son of the convicted murderer makes a name for himself as a newspaper writer and his daughter becomes a famous singer.
Well written with fleshed out characters, I just didn't believe at least half of what I read.
To be a great novel it has to suck me in and make me believe.
The story about a man falsely accused of murdering his friend and his escape from the law as he was being transported to his execution. The story was very compelling with a good amount of mystery regarding the murder and escape but the true reason this is five stars is the writing itself. Told in beautifully crafted sentences (every word perfect), each chapter told the story of the seperate members of both families and wove the tale to its ultimate ending. One of the best books I've ever read.
Engaging, with flowing prose and interesting characters. Wilder definitely aimed high, with a mystical sort of novel across generations. I dont think he pulled it off. The ending is rushed and forced, and almost all of the plot ends are left to tumble on without resolution. In addition, apart from Ashley and his wife, his characters are more like symbols, than fully realized souls. Still, an excellent and very worthwhile read.
I've always been fond of fragmented narratives told well, and Thornton Wilder was at his greatest with this novel: going to-and-fro different timelines, The Eighth Day traces the life and fate of John Ashley and his family after he was indicted with the murder of his best friend, Breckenridge Lansing.
It was, to me, better than Bridge because of quotes like these: 'I think we're all bad judges of what goes on in other people's minds about God. It's a bad thing to force a God on a man who doesn't want one.
John Ashley is a doer, not an observer, and that's probably why this novel is better.
I've just finished and, although the narrative seemed occasionally difficult to piece together, it finally comes together in a beautiful rumination on life's scale, both grand and minute. The Eighth Day is quite reminiscent of Our Town and The Bridge of San Luis Rey. This one is worth a second read.Murder mystery and philosophical commentary.
Я бы поставил 3.5, по справедливости, но, за неимением такой опции, 3 более близкая мне оценка. В книге есть пара глав написанных динамичным, красивым, интересным языком. Все остальное - довольно примитивно, по современным меркам, просто и скучно. Очень часто проводил параллели с поздним толстым. Бог, добро, помощь. Книга на любителя. Меня не зацепила.
If God rested on the seventh day, he didn't stop, He continued on the eighth day, and continues even now. Moreover his working may well be strange beyond human reasoning: this would well be the message of this story of a man wongly convicted of murder and his family,
Too philosophical for me.
Difficult to rate this book. So much to love, but also a lot of slogging. I'm between a 3 and a 4.
