https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18908140-hunting-with-the-bow-arrow
Ishi, the last of his tribe, wandered into the world of the west and made the best he could of his loss, becoming a minor celebrity.
His doctor, Saxton Pope, took his experiences with Ishi and bow hunting and turned them into a classic work of the outdoors.
Bow hunting can get quite weird and high techy these days but there is still a strong rump of purists with their recurves and long bows.
Best read on the deck, looking into the middle distance, surrounded by undertrimmed bushes, drinking from a tin cup of hellishly strong coffee.
Saxton Pope learned to use a bow from Ishi and carried the love of bow hunting for the rest of his life.
You can and will learn secrets that you would have never thought of , secrets that before Ishi, had been so completely forgotten that Dr. Pope had to reintroduce the techniques to other Native American Tribes.I am not a hunter, I have never used a bow but I have a great love of the outdoors and I loved every moment of this book.
Dr. Pope draws his readers into the romance of a bow hunter's world.
His recount of his bow hunting experience is hard to believe in modern times but it is so enthralling, that it is hard to put down.
My only complaint about this book is that it is a little disjointed, because he talks about his interaction with one of the last Native Americans of his nation, then talks about the technical requirements and instructions for constructing one's own archery equipment, and then about his hunting experiences with a bow.Nonetheless, this was a very enjoyable read.
Easy to read treatise on the bow and arrow. The great value of this book is the additional information on Ishi. Saxton Pope was his doctor, and the two became friends. Ishi taught him quite a bit about his hunting methods, woodcraft, archery, bow making etc.... As a window onto California's past, this book is invaluable.You can download it for free at Project Guttenberg. I highly recommend doing so if you are at all interested.
I started reading this quite some time ago. Every now and then I'd pick it up and read another chapter. The first part of the book is the best, in which Pope discusses his relationship with Ishi and the knowledge Ishi passed on to him and others. A must read for any archer.
Great readA little old fashioned but full of good stories of a much simpler time. I would recommend to any person involved in archery or anyone who wants to get involved.
