https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1967070.Coraline
I really enjoy the story of Coraline, but the artwork just didn't do it for me.
I definitely enjoyed the novel way more, but this was still a super creepy book, perfect for Halloween.
I'd definitely recommend this version to reluctant readers.Yeeees.
The real book is...a REAL book, but I'm talking about those kids who don't like to read.I've got one of those, and she loved this thing.My feeling is that if you can get them hooked on a good story, no matter how you do it, it's going to show them the possibilities between the pages of a book.The graphic novel tells the same story as the book, but with the added bonus of pictures.
Duh.Who doesn't like pictures?Blind folks and snobs, that's who.If you're blessed enough to have a voracious little reader, by all means hand them the novel.
The movie version captured this superbly, partly through the weirdness of its soundtrack.
The basic story is here, rendered in the most simplistic comic art I’ve seen in a while, and that’s about it.
This here is plain: Perhaps it’s because the film interpreted the novel in a different way, one that makes me see Coraline as the animated version.
I don’t see this contrasting version in the comic.
Coraline is, well, slightly weird.
With the girl in the comic I don’t get that.
On a character level this failed drastically, and on an artistic level it felt devoid of the essence of this story.
Overall enjoyed it. Wasn't the biggest fan of the artwork and felt the story lacked a little
FLEE!   Flee while there's still air in your lungs and blood in your veins and warmth in your heart. You need not heed the Shakespearian ghost children's disturbing warnings, my weary traveler. Alas, It's not meant for you, but for our sweet little Coraline: A little girl who walked through a mysterious door to find a twisted reflection of her own world. So, we got a novella, a stop-motion movie, a musical stage play and a graphic novel on Coraline! So many versions! Isn't that a bit too much?
FLEE!
So, we got a novella, a stop-motion movie, a musical stage play and a graphic novel on Coraline!
Isn't that a bit too much?If the studio makes a live action movie, I would be the first in line to watch it!
Because this is one of those stories that can be experienced over and over again.This adaptation of beloved Coraline by Craig Russell is faithful and fabulous.
I was a bit reluctant with the character designs in the initial panels as I had already been in love with the movie's character designs.
She does resemble Coraline’s mother quite a bit except for her eyes which are made of black buttons.Initially, she seems very nice and kind but Coraline soon finds that this “Other Mother” wants Coraline to stay with her permanently in this alternate-mansion.
Of course, there is nothing wrong with just buying it to read for yourself._____________Notes:* I did not even know that there is such an occupation as letterer, not being very familiar with the graphic novels and comic books scene.There is an interesting inversion motif in Coraline, the mansion in our world and the very similar and also very different version of it in the other dimension, the people behave in polar opposite manners; even Coraline’s name is somewhat unearthly, a partial inversion of Caroline.
I've never read this as a kid and thank goodness I didn't. This book would've given me nightmares. There's a creepy quality to the other mother and the other world that would have haunted me. Even now, there are areas of the book that I read through very quickly! As an adult, I really appreciate Coraline's strength and bravery. She is the kind of kid I was too afraid to be back in the day.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
La verdad es que me encantó, las ilustraciones siguen siendo muy macabras como la historia en sí, creo que esta al nivel de la historia, acompañan perfectamente (aunque francamente tiro más del lado de la novela original de Gaiman).Creo que quienes apreciamos el arte en general de Coraline estamos acostumbrados a verla caricaturizada, con la imagen quizá del genio Henry Selick, en una figura más infantil y jovial.
En esta versión la cosa cambia un poco, todos están repentinamente mucho más humanos, y la historia tiene un pelín más de seriedad que en la novela.
I must confess that I've never read Neil Gaiman's Coraline, but I have seen the adaptation and have been curious about how it'd work as a graphic novel. As it turns out, it's wonderfully creepy. I expected Coraline to have bright blue hair and the story to be as whimsical as it is in the film, but the graphic novel is more realistic. I don't think button eyes and the Other Mother will ever stop being creepy. P. Craig Russell's illustrations capture the weirdness perfectly!I also reviewed this book over on Pretty Books.
Me encantó la novela gráfica no he leído el libro ni he visto la película para poder hacer una comparación pero me parece que las ilustraciones fueron super creepys, mucho más de lo que me esperaba y me encariñé mucho con los personajes a tal punto que creo que ahora me gustan los gatos.Veré la película definitivamente y recomiendo mucho este formato porque creo que funciona muy bien con la historia
يعرف مَن شاهد فيلم "كورالاين" أنه لا يناسب الأطفال كثيرا، وأنه سيظل طويلا ملازما لكوابيس أي طفل شاهده. لكن هذه الرواية المصورة؟ لا أعرف حقا كيف كنت لأشعر لو كنت قرأتها طفلا! فخيال المخرج المبدع "هنري سيليك" أخرج الفيلم في صورة رائعة ومروعة، تساءلتُ كثيرا عن مدى مناسبتها للأطفال. لكنني اكتشفت بعد قراءة الرواية أنه كان رحيما بتجاهل الكثير من التفاصيل المفزعة!نيل جايمان هنا يمزج بعبقرية فذة بين أشنع تيمات الرعب، وبين أعذب ملامح قصص الأطفال.تحياتي يا جايمان، فقد نجحتَ تماما في إثارة هلعي كبالغ، وانبهاري كطفل، وغيرتي ككاتب.أحمد الديبأبريل 2015
3.5 STARSPOP SUGAR READING CHALLENGE 2016 A GRAPHIC NOVEL Desde hace tiempo quería leer novelas graficas, y decidí empezar con una sencilla. La leí súper rápido, me gusto la historia es entretenida, aunque las imágenes no me agradaron del todo, me hubiera gustado que fueran mas oscuras, mas creppys. Sin duda veré la película que parece tener mas ese toque de terror. Mi personaje favorito fue el gato sin nombre.
I haven't seen the movie for Coraline or read the original book so I had pretty much no idea what this graphic novel was about. The overall plot was really interesting and spooky. I wasn't expecting it to be so strange but I really enjoyed it. I really like Coraline. She was a fun character and I thought she was really well written.
I've read some terrible book-to-comic adaptations before, but Coraline isn't one of them. Beautifully (and sometimes creepily) drawn, full of quirky and unforgettable characters, and set in both reality and fantasy, this is one graphic novel that everyone can enjoy.
*** Review Coraline on Kati's Bookaholic Rambling Reviews ***http://katisbookaholicramblingreviews...I really wanted to read more Neil Gaiman books this month because I absolutely love and enjoy reading his books last year, so I decided to read one of his graphic novel and I decided and picked up Coraline at the library.
Now I haven't read the book of Coraline just the graphic novel, but now after reading this amazing graphic novel I really want to read the book.
All and all I absolutely love and enjoy everything in Coraline that I can't wait to read more Nail Gaiman's books in the near future!
“How do I know you'll keep your word?" asked Coraline."I swear it," said the other mother.
"I swear it on my own mother's grave.""Does she have a grave?" asked Coraline."Oh yes," said the other mother.
I'm still not sure whether I like spooky and creepy stories...
What I did like, on the other hand, was the banter between Coraline and the cat:“What's your name,' Coraline asked the cat.
Okay?''Cats don't have names,' it said.'No?' said Coraline.'No,' said the cat.
We know who we are, so we don't need names.” and...“The cat wrinkled its nose and managed to look unimpressed.
Some years ago, I read the original novel by Gaiman, upon which this book is based and I liked it so much, even though the genre is for younger readers.Speaking about plot, this novel is equal to the original story, with all the suspense and pathos.
This is an incredible trip to another world, a story that has many points in common with Alice in wonderland.Coraline, bored and neglected by parents, discovers that a door, opened on a wall of brick, in some circumstances gives access to another world, in some ways identical to hers.
So, at some point, sounds strange seeing her playing with dolls.At the end, I think it’s a nice book to read, for teenage, but also for adult.
As usual, I love Gaiman's original story.
BUT Coraline looks a lot older than she 'should' from the original story, which turns it into a story about an ungrateful petulant pre-teen rather than a little girl, and that made me lose a little sympathy for her.
Nobody likes a sulky teen (pre-teen or otherwise).
This older version of Coraline also made the story feel less creepy than the original, which had some pretty dark illustrations included anyway, so I'm torn with how much I actually love this version, and how much is just my bias for all things Gaiman.
Coraline: Graphic Novel is Russell's adaptation of Neil Gaiman's classic and chilling story about a girl who enters an alternative world to encounter her "other" mother and the creepy universe she has created.
If you haven't read the original story and don't know the plot, Russell's adaptation is perfection and complete in itself, so there is no prerequisite to read Gaiman's novel (although you should...because it's Gaiman).
The story is 95% the same, although Russell has chosen to edit some sections but it doesn't read any differently.
All in all, a brilliant story with stunning artwork which will delight adults and children alike.
My rating here is for the graphic novel as an adapation, rather than for the story itself.
The comic doesn't do anything other than what the book does, which I find disappointing in an adaptation.
Coraline looking older than she should is something that kept drawing me out.I certainly didn't find the comic more atmospheric, or creepier, which I think is something the illustrations should have done.
Considering I never found Coraline half as creepy as the reviews said I should in the first place.On its own merits, it's a decent graphic novel.
But I'll stick with the book, myself.
4.5 / 5Una historia tan llena de magia como de escalofríos, acompañada de ilustraciones hermosas y muy espeluznantes. ¡Maravilloso!Reseña: http://www.eternamenteentiniebla.com/...
Closer to 3.5 stars...the artwork just didn't do it for me. Asides from that, it's still the awesomely eerie story I love!
“Sharper than a serpent's tooth is a daughter's ingratitude. Still, the proudest spirits can be broken, with love.”3.5/5 I really loved the novel.I really loved the film.So I expected to really love the Graphic Novel.But unfortunatly...I did not.Maybe I set my expectations just a little to high, because I was let down just a bit. And it wasnt even the story. The story was great, it was everything I wanted. I was the interpretation of the characers, more specifically...Coraline. Now I may be wron
I just thought the characters in general jusrt looked a bit to "normal", my initial perception of them was just a little weird and different.
By the way, I just realized I may be looking way to much into this and am probaly the only one who is actually bothered by this so...I should shut up about it.Although that was an aspect I didn´t enjoy, the actual story was so great and the way it was executed into a Graphic Novel was so well done.
The parts with the other mother were the most entertaining.I was annoyed that Coraline's parents at the end conveniently weren't able to remember the other mother kidnapping and trapping them in a snow globe-mirror thing, it made the ending a bit too sweet and perfectly wrapped up.The illustrations were done well, although the drawing style did look a bit dated at times.Since I enjoyed the graphic novel, I might read the book at some point… Then again I'd rather read a Gaiman novel that's all new instead of one where I already know all the most important parts.
P. Craig Russell's adaptation of Neil Gaiman's Coraline isn't as dark as the movie but I wouldn't say this graphic novel was all sunshine either.
I found myself favoring this adaptation to the movie as Russell really knows how to illustrate a Gaiman story.However, I'm disturbed at the information regarding author credit in its Goodreads entry.
Russell did the yeoman's work in adapting Gaiman's text.
He deserves more than the illustrator credit given to him.Still, this is a wonderful story in any version, whether in the original text, the movie or this graphic novel.
It's really great to go through a Neil Gaiman book again, especially Coraline, the only problem was the art, it didn't do for me.
Russell drew Coraline looking so much older than she was supposed to be, it was positively jarring to see the original child-like dialogue coming out of her mouth. It also seems like a missed opportunity to have such a spooky tale and to draw it in such bright colours and light backgrounds, rendering it completely unspooky. A pity because I love Gaiman's book.
Her parents are extremely involved in their work and have little time for Coraline so she is left on her own a lot.There is one door in the flat that is locked and when she asks her mother what is behind the door she is told that it leads to another flat, but the passage way has been bricked over - her mother opens the door to prove it.
Her curiousity forces her to walk into the dark opening and what she finds is a mirror image of her own flat - including her Other Mother and Other Father.After entering the flat next door, Coraline’s life takes a horrifying turn.
P. Craig Russell has done some great comics, and at worst he still draws a very pretty picture, but this was mostly flat and literal-minded.
The characters aren't very expressive (Coraline, who looks about 15 and very conventionally pretty, often just seems bored and mildly worried) and, with a few exceptions, the backgrounds aren't either...
If comics aren't really your thing, then this stuff probably won't bug you as much and you can just enjoy the story, but for me it's like watching a well-written movie where the acting and directing and set design and lighting are all kind of half-hearted.
