https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4268.How_to_Be_Good
I think "How to be Good" certainly divided fans of Hornby who were used to his musical themes in High Fidelity and 31 Songs and his style in About a Boy. He was given a lot of criticism for writing the book from the perspective of a middle aged female but this did not bother me in the slightest.
I loved her inner voice - I found things written on the page that I have never heard expressed before and believed only existed in the deepest recesses of peoples supressed innner life.
I think Hornby is a master at capturing these secret inner lives we lead.
To say I didn't get this book would be a profound understatement.
Near as I can tell, it's about all the terrible, mundane ways life can grind you down, how hypocracy gets all of us in the end, and the way what was once beloved can turn into what you hate in the ones you used to love.I found this book tremendously depressing.
Also, it made me never want to get married or have kids.
Ever.I was tremendously disappointed in the ending as well, at the same time as I admired Hornby's technical skill.
While we were doing this I read to Maria.I love Nick Hornby.
I am a bleeding-heart, yoghurt-eating, tree-hugging, grauniad-reading liberal (I draw the line at sandal-wearing).
The book asks the hard questions - what if you actually did become a fully-fledged b-h, y-e, t-h, g-r liberal - what if you actually took a homeless person in - what if you tried to solve all the big/global problems but in a small/personal way.
Many of the ideas made me cringe - but in that way that "The Office" makes you cringe.'Twas a jolly good read.
It really does.The questions is thus: If your spouse, suddenly goes from Mr./Mrs. Truculent, spewing venom everywhere, to someone who wants to do nothing but good deeds, do you: 1)	Insist upon having their head examined (My choice)?
2)	Do you remain on the sidelines and lob sarcasm and jaded remarks and try to undercut all the goodness (Her choice, my second choice)?
3)	Do you become an official doer of good deeds(HA!
Too much of a good thing.
I did enjoy some parts of this novel but others are quite inscrutable. I would try to read another book of Hornby, maybe High Fidelity or About A Boy, and let's see if he will persuade me to add him on my favorite authors.
"A Long Way Down" is still my favorite.
"About a Boy" is still my second favorite.
Even if it's lesser than these other two books, it still has that Hornby charm.
Take an interesting situation (an affair by a self-defined "good person"), add some eccentric details and characters (a faith healer named DJ FeelGood), frustrate your expectations and your desire for a clear-cut resolution to very human problems (divorce and finding happiness), but never go to a place that feels like all hope is lost.
How to Be Good could have appropriately been titled Who Gives a Shit? or How to be Good for Nothing because that's what Nick Hornby is with his cheesy writing style and trite observations.
In fact, I think the most interesting thing about the book is how Hornby illustrats the protagonist's focus on herself and her constant rationalization of her poor choices.
Instead of making the real life changes that would come from taking responsibility and trying to fix things a bit by being less selfish, she eventually decides that finding some time for herself to read and listen to music may enable her to limp along for the next fifteen years in moderately acute displeasure and unhappiness.
The premise that David and Goodness want to do good deeds would be easily covered by making Goodnews a billionaire, then they could give all that money away.Ok, sorry, trying to be good.
Hornby has tried something different and he is trying to write about a real couple having problems.
So, props for that, but unfortunately, it's as boring as fuck.Katie - the doctor / wife - is a saint to have put with David for as long as she has already, but when he starts talking bollocks and giving away the kid's computers , anyone would kick him out, but she doesn't, she tries to understand him.
Loved this book!
I didn't think I would, actually, because it opens with the decaying of a marriage between two Brits with kids.
The subject just doesn't grab me much, I mean, as escapist reading why would I want to read about an unhappy marriage?
There are so many unpredictable twists and turns and just when you think it couldn't get any crazier, it does.
And it's lovely.
It flows out of him naturally and one almost feels like he must have taken a day or something to finish writing a book.
Our world has taught us that there is no one universal truth on how to be good.
I think what Hornbys' message is in this case is that people will go so far as to inconvenience themselves for their fellow human beings but that ultimately no one single person can save the world.
Yes people think that they are good but sometimes they are delusional.
For a book titled How to be Good I don't feel like I received an answer..
I seen this book on my sister's shelf and asked her about it and her replay was:"It's horrible, characters are so annoying I wanted to torture them".So as Calvin said, that piqued my curiosity.Can it really be that bad?Turns out that it can be as I found no redeeming part.
None of the hope of "About a Boy", and although I haven't read "High Fidelity", I've seen that movie, and I think that had hope too.So here's what I started writing after the first section for BBC last Saturday:"How to be Good" isn't exactly a cheery book yet, is it, and frankly those in attendance were wondering if the notes on the cover ("Hilarious", "Such a zip to read", and "Breezily hilarious") were about this book or another.
Because who wouldn't wish to start all over again?In thinking through my final thoughts on this book, and my preference for hope in books, I would have been happy with the ending of this book if it had ended one sentence earlier.
Nick Hornby was nominated for the Best Adapted Screenplay Oscar, and the critics thought he did a pretty fine job.
I'd like to see Hornby doing a fine job because I've pretty much given up on him.
I loved Fever Pitch; it is part of my personal mythology (I am an Arsenal fan, and it is very nearly a bible to Gooners).
Drivel seems to work).I'm probably not being fair, but I've really loved Hornby's work, and I want to love it again.
And I want Nick Hornby to get back to "being good" himself, not just writing about some wanker and his experiment with the homeless.
I'm disappointed because this was my first time reading a book by Nick Hornby and I wasn't impressed with the book or the writing.
She kept referring to herself as a "good person" but trust me, she wasn't.
The whole magical healing hands thing didn't appeal to me.
It posed a good question: "how would you react if your husband (etc.) became 'too good'?" but I believe that Katie was the wrong type of wife to feature in this novel.
I would not recommend this book to anyone and I won't be in a hurry to read another book by Nick Hornby.
This is the first Hornby book I have read and he did not disappoint.
This story is somewhat ridiculous but it also presents very serious issues on family and relationships.
It speaks a lot about love and what it really means and gives importance to marriage and commitment.
In a very humurous way, this book brings up the issue of charity and its evil side -- how doing good for other people can go wrong and cause hate instead of love.
I probably will not read this book again but it was definitely enjoyable and smart.
I'm looking forward to reading more from Nick Hornby.
Well-written, compelling, blah blah blah. I'm sick of books about affairs and divorce.

Okay, I can probably guess why this book is considered one of Nick Hornby's lesser works by fans of the author & yet it found a place on the Man Booker Prize longlist.
Not really.The protagonist of 'How To Be Good' is Katie Carr, a medical practitioner living with her husband David & her two kids in a London suburb.
And then Katie realises that one needs to be careful about what one wishes for - after all, charity begins at home...Talking about what I liked about this book, the men win the arguments here.
It seems like Hornby is trying too hard to be different, after having written two books that are essentially coming-of-age stories.
E' preferibile essere single incalliti o avere alle spalle almeno 30 anni di matrimonio per affrontarlo con leggerezza.Comprendo quindi i molti voti negativi.
Non l'ho trovato deprimente come scritto da altri, tuttavia quanto accade ai due protagonisti di questo libro è un calderone in cui ci starebbero le storie di almeno altre 10 coppie.
Troppi accadimenti in breve tempo, problemi e infiniti misunderstanding che possono capitare senz'altro in una lunga vita matrimoniale, ma qui concentrati in poche settimane, conseguenze velocissime e personaggi a tratti sul filo del credibile.
I bought this book maybe 6 years ago, after reading and loving High Fidelity and About a Boy. I read 100 pages or so, and put it down.
I don't like any of the characters, major or minor, and I would not want to spend any time with any of them.
The main character's search for morality is really just an attempt to look like a good person to the people around her.
There are some funny parts, but the highlight of the story for me was a cameo by a character from High Fidelity.
The author wants to tell us nothing is black and white and to be careful what we wish for, because its fulfillment won’t necessarily make us happy.The protagonist is Katie, a 40ish medical practitioner, living with her constantly angry husband David and two kids in a London suburb.
In a very humorous way, this book brings up the issue of charity and how doing good for other people can go wrong and cause tension, This is Hornby in a nutshell - he gets inside his characters’ heads, then creates a believable absurdity, and gets under your skin while doing it.
Here is how this day went: I was staying at my family's summer house with my mother and niece and nephews.
My mother had taken the whole gang to a pancake breakfast so I sat on the deck and sipped my coffee while working on a crossword puzzle.
Engaging in sloth while reading about how our human weakness makes us, well, human was a lovely way to spend a vacation day and I recommend it highly.I suppose I could have liked this book more except I really wanted her to fall back in love with her husband and she just didn't.
I loved this book, even though I hated the beginning and I didn't really like the ending either.
At first I thought it was a book about nasty people, divorce and affairs, and I'm really tired of those themes.
I love humor about manners, morals and hypocrisy, and this is was what the book is about.
So many people found this book depressing, but I didn't.
Maybe because I'm white, or guilt-ridden, or relate to the characters, but I liked it.
The ending doesn't wrap things up with a bow, but maybe the lesson is that people should start thinking about the small things in life, that lead to the big things, before it's all over.
La trama, a mio avviso, presenta qualche forzatura e i personaggi sono a volte definiti in modo eccessivamente stravagante, tuttavia i temi di fondo del romanzo vengono sviluppati con sensibilità, equilibrio e competenza. Anche in un contesto decisamente meno riuscito rispetto ai lavori precedenti, lo stile narrativo, venato di intelligente ironia, rivela lo scrittore di razza; e sotto i suoi fendenti si sgretola la maschera di ipocrisia e di cinismo dietro la quale oggigiorno ci si nasconde nel

Whilst I admit that there are some shrewdly observed elements of a fractured relationship (unfortunately writing from experience), this is not a pleasant read at all. It begins as it means to go on... and on... and on...I had enough of a struggle making sense of my own disaster without looking on in Peeping Tom fashion at someone else's
Completely annoying MCs. I'm surprised I made it through. Disappointed because I like the author.
How to be Good by Nick HornbyI picked up this book as part of my “I am going to read people who aren't dead” series.
Then the husband literally meets the GoodNews (a “Gen-whatever-is-after-Y) kid who has Jesus like healing hands.
Like I said, Hornby isn't a bad writer and there are certain truths of his criticism of secular humanism and the boredom that is everyday life.
My biggest criticism of the book and the reason it gets two rather than three stars is that the narrator doesn't sound like an authentic woman.
In sum, Hornby is a good writer and this is a book with interesting points.
Yes, it's a North London novel, like most of Hornby's early work, so I do feel that he's writing about my world, but it's also clever, insightful, damn funny and a very original premise for a writer.
It's also very brave for a man to write as a woman in the first tense and Hornby brings it off superbly.
Hornby is a wise, witty and insightful man; a wonderful writer and someone who can make you laugh and make you think, even if he is a Gooner.
"How to Be Good" is an excellent read, confronts the many changes in a modern marriage where husband and wife are unsure of the ground of the marriage.
Katie, the wife, is a doctor, and one of her consistent refrains as she assesses her life and the lives of those around her is that she is a doctor and does good things for people every day.
Her husband, David, has been a negative, argumentative, non-working presence for several years.
Can David become the loving husband she thinks she remembers?
the GOOD things that happen.
