https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109244.Swamp_Thing_Vol_2
The first volume was great but the second one is even greater! This Hardcover TPB collects "Swamp Thing" #28-34 plus Annual #2, and along with some material from "House of Secrets" #92Creative Team:Writer: Alan MooreIllustrators: Stephen Bissette, John Tottleben, Rick Veitch & Shawn McManus PLAYING WITH THE BIG BOYS The levels of the writing, the levels of the events, the levels of the characters, all got higher and higher.You're playing with the big boys now!In this epic volume, Swamp Thin
Showing truly respect for the characters in the title, not only the main character, but also all support characters and their value to enrich the story.He is constructing a masterpiece in comic books history and the greatest thing is that he is doing it with the least expected character......The Swamp Thing!Sensational mix of supernatural horror in what once was a traditional "super-hero" comic book title, becoming something totally different, something bigger, something greater.
I think this was mostly better than the first volume, save for the aliens story, but it was the last one, the declaration of love between ST and Abs and their acid trip sex act that sealed this volume as something pretty awesome.I mean, sure, when Abs dies during the awesome conflict with Arcane and ST goes to heaven and hell to get her back, that was pretty awesome, too, but I thought the last bit was most special.
1985, years before Sandman came out and had these characters running around the Dream, and here they are doing all the same things!Oh the things I learn so late.And this time, I didn't even care about their story in ST.
Swamp Thing is balanced, bizarre, and beautiful.
In volume two, Swamp Thing has a major revelation when it comes to his and Alec Holland's identities.
This story can be very grand.
There's even an issue from Len Wein that gets philosophical and meta-fictional, discussing the differences between mystery and secret, and the power of stories.
The living, decaying "nature" of Swamp Thing is that his biology and setting make for fascinating, detailed illustrations: roots, moss, and dirt covering his musculature, in a bubbling swamp populated by the supernatural.
Psychedelia, aliens, demons, bizarre creatures.
There's plenty to admire.Over thirty years old and yet still groundbreaking, Alan Moore & co's Swamp Thing is unique even by today's standards.
Volume 2 of Alan Moore's epic Swamp Thing follows in the footsteps of Vol 1 by mirroring its excellence.
There is a lot to take in and the stories feel very different to someone used to modern comic writing.
As the Swamp Thing is a comic carried by the strong writing of AM, the visual need not be the shiny new style of the modern artist.
I would like to point out that some of the individual covers are amazing!So for originality, depth, entertainment-or just because you really ought to take some time and read something really, really good I give Vol 2 a 5 star rating.
There's the inclusion of a Walt Kelly "Pogo" Tribute which felt sorta weird and out of place for me, (but you know, it's an ol' Louisiana swamp story, that Pogo, so here is Moore paying his respects to former comics greats and creating a little layering of comic history into his tale, typical of him, layering mythologies); there's a trip back to the Len Wein Arcane story, which would be completely confusing unless you knew those original stories (but is again an indication of how Moore likes to pay tribute to the esoteric comics history and origins, again); there's a trip Swampy makes into Hell for his lost love Linda which is unexpectedly epic and operatic for what must appear to most as a silly monster/horror comic that feels like the fifties pre censorship EC days; there's a really crazy drugged out/sex/love story between Swampy and his girlfriend (she wants to have sex with him in some way, and not just kiss.
I liked the first volume of Moore's Swamp Thing, but wow.
(I think anybody who's already familiar with Pogo would get way more out of this issue than I did.) Rites of Spring surprised me by the way that Moore handled the romantic elements (better, more heartfelt, and more sincerely than I would have expected) and with the sort of experimental spirit that makes me think of his later work, like Promethea.
If this volume reflects the way that the rest of Moore's run on Swamp Thing went, then all of the praise I've heard over the years has been totally justified.
In his unpredictability, we come to find new and inspiring sides of ourselves, and of comics, and of others.If Morrison has lived his entire career as the incorrigible teenager of comics, inspiring in his gusto but disappointing in his ego, then Moore has always been the old man of comics, a crafty wizard who knows things we don't want to know, who leads us patiently through our wide-eyed bumbling and self-absorption, past the explosions and gun battles, and into our own back yard to show us something beautiful that was there the whole time.We'll wonder why he doesn't want our thanks.
I need something higher than 5 stars...
I wasn't blown away by the first volume, but volume two makes it clear why people rave about Moore's Swamp Thing.I'm not sure why I liked this volume so much more.
Possibly, it just seems more epic and more suited to the adventures of a creature that is an elemental force, rather than merely another action hero.
For me, at least, Swamp Thing's physicality should seem almost an afterthought.Now, I kind of understand where Moore is going.
Swamp Thing makes more sense; his supporting characters make more sense.
There are even hints of some of his other works, most specifically some of Promethea's inventiveness in "The Rites of Spring".
In Moore's hands he is a human being with real emotions and drives.
The story arc that imitated Pogo was sweet and fun to read, but still managed to convey the darkness of the swamp, the bleakness of what we are doing to our world.
Every day.The stories with cameos from other comics were also fun.
Kudos to not only Moore but the illustrators.
So much of comics is told in the panels, NOT the balloons that people who don't really study the art work are missing a lot.I've already dived into volume 3.
This may be the best bunch of Alan Moore's Swamp Thing run (with the amazing collaboration of Bissette and Totleben).
And if one needs any proof that Moore is a truly great author, not just a great "comic book" author, one need look no further than this volume.
in his single panel cameo); it's in the way he takes a magic tuber ride into the realm of Swamp Thing sex, conveying both real love and intimacy in a comic that was supposed to be a horror mag.
And when those words are matched with the textured, detailed art of Bissette, they threaten to overwhelm.
I thought there was a lot of "horror" and "gore" in this book, and the stories were a bit slower. It's more focused on the drawings and writing style rather than the flow of the story itself. Some parts were like random issues that aren't necessarily related to the story or affect it in any way.But still enjoyable.
I think Swamp Thing is one of my favorite comic characters now? Also, I need to buy an individual copy of issue #34. That was so wild. I love this series so far. Kind of weird, but in a good way.
At this particular point I think we're seeing the balance shift away from the pictures and overly towards the words, still seeking the equilibrium.Also, this volume concludes with the issue that stopped me reading Swamp Thing the first time I tried a few years ago.
And the experience is like some sort of acid trip sex thing.Now after all that dick talk, I have to say, if I could chomp down on a piece of ginger root and cum in my pants, I don't know that I'd be opposed to that experience.
Who knew a horror based title could give you such warm fuzzies as you read it's.
Low point: The filler issue 'Pog', with alien beings that look like 80's kids cartoon characters.
It didn't add anything to the ongoing story, and the art was too camp for my liking.
High point: The annual issue where Swampy goes to hell to retrieve Abby's lost soul.
Weird point: When they had the equivalent of a sex scene between Swamp Thing and Abby...they did it really cool an interesting, but still...a bit odd.
I've been reading this alongside old Vertigo tiles like Sandman and Hellblazer, so it's so cool seeing characters crossover between them.
Taking a character who started out as a horror comic monster, and using him as the lens through which to examine humanity was a great idea, and works well on so many levels.
I was reading this on the train, and it was fairly light outside.
But the more I read, the more I was pulled into the story - I remember thinking I was surrounded by nothing but darkness (it was while reading Abandoned House) and then being startled when I happened to look up.
And gorgeous to look at (no thanks to the printing, but you get the idea and it's incredible).
Comic art that pushes boundaries and works so very well with the story.
I'll try and not wait another six months until I read the next volume.
Moore's rich and evocative writing evokes a palpable sense of dread, and the artwork of the afterlife has a sense of horror Hieronymus Bosch would have been proud of. All of this, a guest appearance by Deadman and 'Rite of Spring' (a hallucinatory issue that stretches the bounds of human consciousness AND comic writing). Buy it for someone who is a newcomer to comics but hasn't realised their literary potential. Yet.
Alan Moore at his best.Is amazing how beautifull each issue in this volume is written. Specially Annual #2, which tells the story of The Swamp Thing in search of his beloved Abigail in darkest sides of hell. Just fantastic.
Ahora sí encontramos un tomo interesante, en el que hay historias de todo tipo: viaje al infierno por un alma perdida, inmigración marciana, nos la juega dos personajes de Sandman y un autentico viaje psicodélico.
Here's Cain and Abel, Deadman, The Stranger, and Spectre; here's everything you know about Swamp Thing changed to the point that he is Earth's Elemental, a Gaurdien in the word's of Pog(o) the (Intergalatic O)possum in a beautiful tribute.
It's gorgeous.Swamp Thing was to Alan Moore what  Animal Man was to  Grant Morrison.
He didn't so much create a new story as he did access the cycle that Abel offered up in the House of Secrets.
We learn that Heaven, Hell, and Purgatory are infinite aspects of a God so vast we can barely make sense of...
I wonder if this volume inspired Animal Man's Wile E. Coyote issue?
Anyway, Vertigo's reissue of Alan Moore's seminal story is collected in a nice hardcover volume that, for this book, includes issues 28 - 34 of the series.I never realized how fantastic Swamp Thing really was until I read this edition.
They feel nice, yes, and there's less of a chance for papercuts, but I like how Swamp Thing takes us back in time to comics of old.
The paper gives a nostalgic feel, bringing me back to days where I used to sit up in my aunt's closet and read old horror comics.The hardcover binding comes with a slipcover with fantastic cover art.
I'm actually surprised that it took me this long to get to reading it, due to how influential it is compared to a lot of his other work - it's been argued that without Swamp Thing, Vertigo Comics would never have coalesced, which I think would have had a huge impact on how comics are formatted and marketed today (especially regarding the now-routine collection of comics into trade collections) as well as the types of stories being told.
The first half- "The Burial" and the three-part return of Arcane story, puts an end to the original Len Wein/Bernie Wrightson version of Swamp Thing and opens the door for Moore to go wherever he wants with the character.Some of the places he goes- a tribute to Walt Kelly's Pogo (the only real misstep in this volume) and an issue-length examination of exactly how a vegetable man and his white-haired girlfriend have sex with each other now that they've revealed their true feelings.
In this book Alan Moore begins using Swamp Thing for that purpose."Together we know the light, exploding upward in a birdcloud, fragmenting into wrirring feathered shrapnel, dancers in the glare...
Breaking free of the Comics Code was one success, but breaking free of the conventions of comix as child's play was bigger; Moore, Bissette and Totleben changed not just the content that a comix reader's intellect deemed entertaining, but the very catalyst for horror: gifting you with images that were actually less horrifying than the written word.
The last chapter is an apogee, being basically a wild hallucinogenic trip that forces you to physically rotate the book several times (a bit of a bummer reading digitally).
The vertical double-page spreads from this chapter are some of the most creative and mind-bending art pieces I've seen in comics.There is only one major downside, dropping my rating from 5 to 4 stars, and that is a single issue here titled "POG".
It is a stand-alone, so I would recommend doing exactly that to everybody so as to not kill the buzz when you read this volume.
Maybe come back and read it separately a bit later, when you finished the rest of the book.Otherwise, again, I loved it.
The Swamp thing gets himself a girlfriend.
But, this is not much of a spoiler since Swamp Thing edition by Alan Moore is rerun of original Swamp Thing popular issues.
The one issue that I didn't like in this comic was Pog, with their Lewis Carrol-ish 'portmanteau words'.
Another horrifying issue was Mrs. Cable's hatred with her own body, smell and Black River Recorporations, which was also very well drawn.
But any horror in the issue has been very sweetly matched with the Swamp Thing and his girlfriend's communion.
I don't know why, since I enjoy Alan Moore, 80's comics, the dark magic of DC, and creature heroes.
Really, this comic has it all and gets it right.
The stories are intelligently written and are always foreboding, leaving you almost afraid to turn the page.
This is horror that only comics can do; creepy, detailed, and intriguing.
While all the stories were well done, the last chapter of the Arcane trilogy was my favorite.
All had a different view of death and all were great reads.
I'm glad I started reading this book.
Moore continues his ground-breaking re-interpretation of everybody's favorite muck monster.This time we're treated to a road-story... but unlike any other road story we've ever been onin a graphic novel up to now.I think by this time, DC's editors had discovered they had a hit on their hands thanks to Moore and gave him way more leeway in his story telling.... Moore probably noticed this and decided to take risks and chances a "new" writer would have trouble getting thru the editing process.Thank god... or whatever sock-puppet god Moore was worshipping at the time.
