https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1400707.The_Flowering_Thorn
At first she and the villagers view each other with suspicion, and there's a very funny scene where she invites a few of her London friends to come stay in her cottage for a few days as a housewarming party, which is mildly disastrous (but has a very interesting consequence a couple of years later).Lesley plans from the beginning to send Patrick off to boarding school when he's eight years old - luckily she has Connections - and move back to the city and take up her old life at that point.
Lesley Frewen also had somewhat of an attitude, as did many of the others involved in her life and lifestyle.It was her very attitude that caused her to stubbornly dig in her heels and decide to adopt a 4 and a half year old boy whose mother had been in service to Lesley’s aunt and died leaving young Patrick with no family.
However, reality taught her differently.Necessity caused her to move to a small cottage near a country village, and because her income would not stretch to more staff than an elderly woman who would help out with chores in the mornings, she found herself figuring out ways to do for herself.Lesley’s gradual progression from self-centred socialite to cottage-dwelling contentment is what sparkles in this story, and it generates an interesting and enjoyable read.
A lady, one would say, of at least sufficient income, enjoying considerable taste, and not more than twenty-eight years old….Without the slightest warning, Lesley Frewen burst into tears.”A man was to blame: the one suitor Lesley really, really wanted didn’t want her.Now experience has taught me that one Margery Sharp heroines, a wonderfully diverse group of women, have in common is that they don’t waste time feeling sorry for themselves; they get up and carry on.Lesley was no exception, and she was also inclined to be bolshie.That goes some way to explaining why she offered to adopt an unwanted infant who had been left on her aunt’s hand after the death of a servant, saving him from being sent to an orphanage.The other part of the explanation was that she thought that the experience would proved her with a fabulous stock of anecdotes.She had doubts, but she had been taken with the child and she didn’t want to lose face.
Delightful tale of a bored English society woman in 1929 who adopts a 4 year old boy and moves to the country. It's written in old fashioned context and rather stilted prose that completely melds to the mood and this honest spirit seeking her worth. Wonderful read!
Ms. Sharp uses subtlety in her writing and you are frequently left to fill in the blanks. She doesn't waste time telling us the obvious. Her assumption seems to be that any idiot knows what is really happening. I don't have a problem with that.
It is the story about Lesly Frewen, a “modern” young woman living in London who has reached a point in her life where she is bored.
She was thinking of sending him to an orphanage when Lesly spoke up and said she would adopt him.
This sets up the theme of the novel, where a young lady has a chance to redeem herself and become a better person by helping a young boy.
The author was best known in America as the author of “Cluny Brown,” and “The Nutmeg Tree,” neither of which I’ve read.
This makes for a tender relationship with the book itself, though not neccessarily with the novel.
The genius of this book is that Lesley Frewne is the least sentimental person imaginable.
She has the dream life of a 'bright young thing' in 1930s London.
But on the spur of the moment she adopts a four year old boy and due to her newly stricken finances moves to a cottage in the country.
Margery Sharp never fails to make me laugh and her slow development of Lesley Frewne is excellent.
ALSO it's refreshingly not a novel devoted to romance, though everything does get neatly dovetailed and end happily.
For me the book finished to soon and I wish there was a sequel!
A charming story. A fashionable, bored London woman adopts a child on a whim, and finds peace, happiness and eventually romance.
Her life changes when on impulse she adopts Patrick, a four year old boy who has been very suddenly orphaned, and finding it impossibly expensive to live with him in London (the suburbs are out of the question), moves to a cottage in Buckinghamshire (this shows you how old this book is, nowadays picturesque old cottages in Buckinghamshire are not to be had cheaply).
She knows nothing about children, or the country, and is not very interested in either, but finds herself gradually drawn into country life, and slowly a warmer relationship develops between her and Patrick.
Little by little country life seems to grow on the young woman.
Of course the reader realizes that it is the young woman who is growing.One of my pet peeves, is plot moppets who lisp their way through a novel.
Patrick is very much in the background, while the focus is on Lesley and her growth, until returning to London becomes impossible for her.The account of country life and the individuals who make up her household and neighbors are what make this book so charming.
Lesley Frewen, a socialite in the late '20's, is bored.
On the spur of the moment she adopts a young boy, Patrick, who has lost both his parents and has no other family.
Lesley, unfortunately, comes across as very repressed.
She basically ignores poor little Patrick; he spends most of their first year together playing alone in the orchard of the country cottage they move to.
To be honest, I found the lack of interest in Patrick rather heart-rending.
She does, however, develop a very nice life in the country.
I enjoyed the writing style and the story development.
*4.5 Stars*
What a nice story. The main character’s friends got a bit annoying at one point but, overall, I really liked this story.
(Hardcover/Used/Out of Print).
Very happy I was able to track this one down.
Lesley Frewen is a jaded, pampered and well partied 28 year old in 1929 London.
She shocks her friends and few elderly relatives by taking on (never formerly adopting) a 4 year old orphan.
Lesley, totally self centered and not in the least maternal makes another not well thought out decision and opts to move herself and the child to a pretty primitive cottage in the country.
She knows she can send the child to boarding school when he's 8 1/2 and looks at this as a self imposed four year exile.
I really, really enjoyed this book, which describes how a socialite decides to adopt a child. She starts very selfishly, thinking of it as a sort of hobby, and of course ends up becoming a better person and even a good mother. The depictions of her shallow friends, who sneer at her new lifestyle, are very funny. I plan to read more Margery Sharp because I enjoyed this, and "Something Light," so much.
Published in 1934, this novel begins with a detached young modern woman living the high life in London. She gets bored and decides, offhandedly, to adopt a four-year-old child and bury herself in a country cottage. Her character transformation and her growth into a person deeply connected with the world around her makes a beautiful, cleverly-written story. Sharp's mastery of creating memorable minor characters pervades in this novel.
Charming book! Reminds me of Cold Comfort Farm a bit.
A fabulous tale, one that can be read in a weekend with characters remembered always.
First, way too much of the book was about setting up what a shallow, vain, disdainful, and unemotional Bright Young Thing the main character is.
In the final scene, we’re supposed to applaud the fact that she feels a momentary pang of emotion about sending her now 8-year-old off to a boarding school.
After some reading, it turns out that Sharp disdained “mother love” and felt that the more detached and business like a mother was, the better.
I guess this accounts for the fact that her main character doesn’t expect or allow for any grief from the child over his mother’s death.
For this to work, I had to consider the child in it a plot token -- not at all an actual human being with his own interiority, because it is clear that Sharp has absolutely no idea that children are people, or that their personhood matters, and I really did want to enjoy the book.
So all right, the child is a plot token, and with that in mind I really enjoyed this tale of a Bright Young Thing coming to love life in the country and domestic virtues entirely on her own terms.

DelightfulMargery Sharp, known to me by her children's book, wrote light hearted romances for adults. The Rescuers, her justly cherished books about adventurous mice ,were absolutely my brother's favorite stories. I read them when I was older so I was not as smitten as he , by the beautiful Miss Bianca. When I recognized the author's name, I thought, why not? Her novels for adults are like a frothy milkshake: sweet, but too sweet, romances. I recommend them especially if you are feeling down.
Gentle humor in difficult times Marjorie Sharp is an underappreciated author in my view. Her novels, written between the 30s and 70s, offer insights into her characters, coupled with humor. This book is no exception. It provides a warm escape from today’s world, yet has a vocabulary that sent me to the dictionary from time to time, so I felt like I was learning a little, too. If you like Angela Thirkell, you’ll enjoy this.
I like Margery Sharp so much that I'm making myself ration the books out at a respectable interval. They witty and smart and emotional without being cloying or melodramatic and twee. In this one, a bored society girl adopts a young boy on a whim and must then retreat to the country to begrudgingly (kind of) raise him. Of course, she finds that it's really where she belongs but there's absolutely none of the sentimentality in it, as you'd get with so many other writers.
The situation, in fact - the ridiculous, childish situation - was rapidly becoming impossible; and seated that morning at her writing-table Lesley suddenly and fantastically wondered whether she had at last stumbled on the secret of that brooding Russian melancholy which has so long puzzled the Anglo-Saxon. Were the children of the Treplevs, the Voynitskys, the Karamozovs, all being denied a dog? YES!
Written in the 30s about a socialite who ends up adopting a four-year-old boy and moving to the country to stretch her money. I loved the writing style. Perfect turn-of-phrase and often amusing. I liked the slow evolution in Lesley's character. I just wish it had been a little bit longer, though the ending was very good really.
The evolution of Lesley the spoiled, bratty, London socialite of the late 1920s into Lesley the loving mother in the countryside is remarkably relevant, considering this book was published in I think 1934. I enjoyed it way more than I expected to!
It was a good read. It was a clean book and showed the power of love that can develop when one opens their heart.
What's the compound German word for "coming to the end of a really good book too suddenly?"Buchendenzufruhangst? That's what happened to me with this one. SUch a delightful bonbon of a book!
Another wonderful, witty, heartwarming, and unsentimental novel by Margery Sharp. Originally published in 1933 and recently reissued.
