https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5809.V_
And then you have the subculture of people making an effort to read Pynchon in public, and the other subcultures that amuse themselves at their expense.
The verdict seems to be know it all, but please, spare us from your efforts to prove it.I'd sell my soul to write like this at the age of six and twenty.
But I have to thank him for my new-found way of thinking about this reading business of mine, my yo-yoing along the V shaped tracks of books like his, picking up bits and pieces with every passing over the same old stomping grounds.
However, because she is of his father's generation and vintage, you have to ask whether in reality he is trying (potentially on behalf of all men) to understand the mystery of sexual attraction, the mystery of womanhood and the place of women in society and, if only from a male perspective, the role of woman in a man's life.
On the plus side, for the first 300-odd pages, I was zipping along on Thomas’s often divine prose style, allowing myself to be taken into weird and wonderful places, regardless of their driftless-seeming drift, and for a few days, I at last had a window into what ecstasy the Thomas fanboys experience when reading their man.

is a luscious and scrumptious salad of baroque urban legends, frilly drinking bouts and fanciful history lessons.“Love's a lash, Kisses gall the tongue, harrow the heart; Caresses tease Cankered tissue apart.
Love, my little slave, Is color-blind; For white and black Are only states of mind.”And the novel language is a quintessence and epitome of that rebellious, tumultuous and alchemical epoch.“To have humanism we must first be convinced of our humanity.
And entropy rules equally the doom of a soap bubble and the fate of a human being, therefore any human life is nothing but a soap bubble.
He found paper and pencil and began to write the sentence in varying hands and type faces."As wartime paranoia, obsessiveness, elusiveness, and ambiguity all seem to be trademark characteristics of Thomas Pynchon's more epic narratives, it's easy enough for the reader to constantly stumble upon these intentionally scattered, meta-clues.
While it's true that not all of Pynchon's protagonists are slackers simply looking for a good time, they still function as tour guides who offer a more or less objective view of the events taking place.
Even Herbert Stencil who exists as sort of an opposite of Profane, still shares a set of common characteristics, namely, humility or humanity.
Ακομη και σημερα ,δεν εχω ιδεα για ποιον λογο, αλλα εμεινα εκει να το κοιταζω περισσοτερο απο οσο εμεινα σε οποιοδηποτε αλλο πινακα.ειμαι ενας ανθρωπος που μου αρεσει η λογικη, το νοημα , η κυριολεξια πισω απο τις μεταφορες.ομως εκεινος ο πινακας με εκανε να σκεφτω οτι πρεπει να επιτρεπω στον εαυτο μου να θαυμαζει απλα κατι ωραιο που και που χωρις γιατι και πως.Ετσι, μετα απο αυτη τη μεγαλη εισαγωγη και για να συνδεσω τα παραπανω με την πρωτη αναγνωση μου βιβλιου του Πυντσον, εχω να πω πως προφανως και οποιος διαβασει το συγκεκριμενο(και ισως ολα?)βιβλιο του πυντσον, δε πρεπει να περιμενει ενα μυθιστορημα με αρχη μεση και τελος, με καταιγιστικες εξελιξεις και μια τελικη καθαρση και λυση ολων των "μυστηριων".
Full of great comic scenes mixed with political espionage and paranoia amidst philosophical comments on the nature of politics, religion, death, time, sexuality and war.
The quest itself is a long journey, hence the time and globe spanning nature of the story.
Pynchon is operating on a metaphysical plain, where particles and matter can be seen and felt and the world is different from our own 20/20 vision.
Too many times are we fed little slices of fear from the characters who contemplate the nature of dying, growing old, separation from mans ignorance.
As the novel progresses, Pynchon regulates that light sometimes letting the reader see very clearly, narratively speaking, and other times enveloping the reader into near darkness.The two main characters are discharged Naval officer Benny Profane the self-described "schlemiel" and Stencil, the hunter of the elusive woman/idea known only as V.
Profane with his friends known as "The Whole Sick Crew" could be Pynchon's alter ego and could be also an amalgamation of Naval and literary figures.The breadth of Pynchon's encyclopedic knowledge comes through with the emergence of Stencil as he wanders through time and multiple identities taking up his father's mission to find V.
Gravity’s Rainbow is next, but I’ve already done 2/3 of that one and know I don’t need no damn key for it.
and really kind of appreciated it.I guess so the reason maybe why I’m hemming and hawing is that I sort of failed to do that part where the reader picks up his part of the task and sews the whole damn thing into a unity.
(I really can’t believe that in this post-structuralist age folks still think novels need to be written and read diachronically!) That’s not the thing.
Questions of the animate and inanimate worlds serve as central life/death dichotomy here, and the novel is filled to the brim with significant objects, automatons, prostheses, and bouts of tourism/colonialism (both of which, it seems, are joined in their ability to take a living place and convert it to small spheres of inanimacy, both literal, in a truly chilling Sudwest setpiece, and metaphorical, everywhere else people cluster around notable buildings and monuments (embodied by frequent references to mid 19th-century travel guide writer Karl Baedeker)).
Ignore talk below of my previously setting this aside - I am giving it try #2 and am enjoying it much more - perhaps it's the timing - it begins on Christmas Eve and the first chapters unfold during the week between Christmas and the new year...
The search for the identity of V is the primary question in this masterwork from Pynchon.
It is funny and tragic and crazy and totally Pynchon.
I honestly cannot remember everything this book - it does not stick in my memory as much as Mason&Dixon, Gravity's Rainbow or Against the Day. I mean, I loved the pleasure of reading it.
But months later, I remember just the story of the genocide in Africa and some other snapshots but overall the image remains vague.
Perhaps I read too much Pynchon in too short a time?
I definitely will need to reread this one again.
He projected worlds in Against the Day and in Mason & Dixon that were amazing, magical, utterly enthralling.
The world he tries to project in V., however, went over my head.
The writing feels upolished, unrefined, not really the Pynchon I've grown used to.
There are glimpses here and there of what Pynchon is capable of, but for the most part, this book is simply not any fun.
The themes so present in, say, Against the Day are here too to some degree, but as with the writing, the themes' presentation feels unrefined.
EDIT: I decided to try reading it again.have you ever had the feeling that an author is simply trying to bludgeon you over the head with abstruseness?
have you ever read one of those books that all of the "serious readers" swear is an infallible masterpiece, despite its meat-fisted appropriation of the stylistic innovations of Eliot, Pound, Joyce, Woolf, et al.?
If you haven't, then read 'V'.
(seriously, though, 'V' is a great book.
i just read it too soon after my Ezra Pound phase, and it sort of rang hollow and derivative.
i'm sure i'll love it when i read it again in a few years.)
From this book I learned that:a) Thomas Pynchon may be the smartest man alive.b) Pynchon's vocabulary is one of the most extensive I've ever come across.c) Reading Pynchon is tedious and often unpleasant.Even with the companion and a book discussion group, reading this novel was like wading through a bog. Every time I grasped the plot, I'd lose track of Pynchon's message, and every time I caught a glimpse of the message, I lost the plot.No wonder the man's a recluse. Talking to him must be like spending an afternoon with Stephen Hawking.
Not that I checked.) (Could've been mutated into pizza loving ninjas in those sewers where people dump all manners of things like radioactive chemicals, in addition to taking a dump, after all.
I remember vividly reading Benny's time in those sewers, hunting and feeling hunted, not just by toilet reptiles but by nagging thoughts of right and wrong.
And a line, like a connecting thread between them, because Pynchon does get somewhere about history and how it fucks with us.
Any place, any time.It's easier to review books one doesn't like.
Μιας και το σκέφτηκες όμως ένας νεαρός, με μούσι και ακουστικά στο λαιμό, κρατά ένα παλιό ντίσκμαν, σε κοιτάει επιτιμιτικά ‘’γιατί’’ σε ρωτά ‘’άφησες τα αντικείμενα να σε κατευθύνουν; Έχει το αμάξι ψυχή; Γιατί όταν οδηγείς ώρες πολλές φιλάς το τιμόνι και του λες κάτι χαϊδευτικό, το νιώθεις ως επέκταση σου, όταν φεύγεις τσαντισμένος απ’ τη γκόμενα και λες θα με δει να περνώ με τ’ αμάξι και η εικόνα μας δικιά μου και τ’ αμαξιού θα την κάνει να νιώσει δέος γιατί είναι σα να προσπερνώ εγώ, μα είσαι εσύ που νιώθεις δέος, ματαιόδοξα για τον εαυτό σου που βρήκες τη δύναμη να φύγεις’’, όχι ρε δε σ’ αφήνει περιθώριο να απαντήσεις, σε παρατά και προχωρεί συνεχίζει να μιλάει, να αναρωτιέται, να φοβάται πως άργησε πολύ κι ο κόσμος πια είναι αιχμάλωτος των αντικειμένων, γι’ αυτό και τα κτίρια ερωτεύονται, οι κάδοι παραλογίζονται κι όλοι ζουν με το κεφάλι χαμηλά, προσπαθώντας ν’ αποκτήσουν.
Thomas Pynchon's V is one of my favorite novels (it's on my rotating list of favorites which also includes Dostoevsky's The Idiot, Leslie Marmon Silko's Almanac of the Dead and a few others).
The main protagonists include Benny Profane, Rachel Owlglass, Stencil, a group of artists known as the Whole Sick Crew and a mysterious entity known as V.
This isn't the easiest of books to tackle, but if you want to experience Pynchon, you might give The Crying of Lot 49 a try.
3.5Mis notas/guía de lectura para V., de Thomas Pynchon
https://pepperlines.blogspot.gr/2017/...
V *****Τα γνωστά μοτίβα του Pynchon που θα τον κάνουν παγκόσμιο είναι εδώ. Ανακάτεμα χρονικο , τοπολογικό και ιστορικό της τράπουλας φέρνει συνεχόμενες κεντες , παρουσιάζοντας ένα ακόμα μωσαϊκό της περιφέρειας του κόσμου λίγο πριν κ λίγο μετά τους δύο πολέμους. Το ανοίγεις τυχαία, διαβάζεις 50 σελίδες και παίρνεις ισχυρή ντόπαΗ Βεϊσού μπορεί να οριστεί ως ένα σύμπτωμα. Συμπτώματα σαν κι αυτό παραμένουν πάντοτε ζωντανά σε κάποιο σημείο του κόσμου.Δεν έχουμε άλλο χρόνο να παραμείνουμε στη Βεϊσού
Video-review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=prMAv...Featured in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2017A puzzling but glorious read that is, paradoxically enough, both breath-taking fast and extremely broody, thrilling and self-absorbed. It will require quite a lot of dedication to be fully enjoyed.
After 70 pages or so that bored me silly I decided to give it up.
I know the author was young (a mere 26 if I remember correctly) but this does not completely justify the sponge-like absorption of so many and so different influences (from Heller to Joyce and Virginia Woolf and magic realism and so on), that cannot really talk to each other so that the narrative seemed to me like a fabric whose threads were all cut and left hanging.
Maybe, another time (another life) I will try to read a maturity work.
And since all those earlier points come to a partial head with the Suez Crisis of November 1956, one could argue that every word in this novel was necessary.For most readers, the occasional senseless party will serve as a break from trying to figure out what the hell Pynchon is talking about, anyway.
In this novel, the young Pynchon displays a compassion and caring that is sweet and often a bit maudlin.
But by the time we move on to Mason & Dixon, Against the Day, and Bleeding Edge, Pynchon has returned to the idea that compassion is acceptable and happy endings are occasionally possible.

Si leer 'La subasta del lote 49' es como prepararse la mochila con un bocadillo y una botellita de agua para pasar el día en el campo, la lectura de 'V.' supone sacar la caravana con lo que ello conlleva, es decir, preparar la tienda de campaña, comprar víveres y coger ropa suficiente porque vas a estar fuera una par de semanas, vivienda en plena naturaleza.
Pero en cuanto terminas tu estancia en 'V.', te queda la sensación de haber pasado unos momentos bastante agradables e interesantes, y no te importaría repetir.Hay que leer a Pynchon, aunque algunas veces no lo pilles del todo, porque lo importante es dejarse llevar por sus ardides conspiratorios.
It's a book that seems to revolve more around a specific set of images and motifs, clocks, yo-yo's inanimate objects, Malta, espionage, etc.
than around a set of characters, though the characters are often compelling and weirdly poetic in their own ways.
The way it tries to tie together so many odd, all but forgotten historical threads and to make you puzzle over them feels incredibly ahead of its time.
Which probably goes to show just how widely influential Pynchon actually is.
I feel like you could actually move into this book and drown in it.

When deciding which book of his to read first, I took some advice from a reviewer and picked up V.
V. is Pynchon's first novel, and according to the reviewer, it is shorter and easier than his most famous book, Gravity's Rainbow.
Benny Profane.
Oh, cuz he is kinda profane, right?
All of these names are supposed to be hilarious but the joke feels like it is on me for reading this book in the first place.
I didn't laugh the whole time, despite feeling like the book wanted me to.
This book is a 547 page joke without a punchline.
