https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817316.Doctor_De_Soto
Young children who are frightened of the dentist may worry about this image so parents should try to either skip over this image or reassure their children that the fox is alright from this procedure, even though he states, “I’m bleeding!”“Doctor DeSoto” is one of William Steig’s greatest classics since it contains a trickery scene by Doctor DeSoto that will remain a cult favorite for many years.
Children about ages six or younger will simply adore this book for its cute characters and exciting storyline and the adults will love the fact that Doctor DeSoto has taken a great profession in dentistry and I am sure that this book will be a favorite for many years.
Of course, the fun part is how they outsmart the fox to render him harmless to them.This would be a great book for kids about to visit the dentist or kids who are scared of dentists, or those who like dentists too.
I liked my pediatric dentist a lot.
I enjoyed the pictures on every page.I am confused though: my copy has a Newbery Honor Book sticker on it.
It’s unusual for a picture book to be nominated for a Newbery Award.
I thought this was a fine story but not Newbery worthy.
Here is the story of an amazing mouse-dentist named Dr. De Soto and his kindly assistant (and wife).
But, when a well-dressed and much-suffering fox wanders past one day with a terrible toothache, Mrs. De Soto can't bare to see him suffer and convinces her husband to help.
Dr. De Soto and his wife survive the first day, but the fox needs a second treatment.
Dr. De Soto never lets a job go unfinished, but he and his wife might have just the thing to outsmart the clever fox.This book made a huge impression on me as a child.
I never imagined that a story about a dentist could be charming, but this one is.
I enjoyed the story well enough, but what tickled me were the illustrations, especially the ones with the mouse dentist being hauled up on pulleys by his wife to work on the teeth of very large animals.
I was also charmed because the Desotos reminded me so much of my own dentist and his wife-assistant, an older Romanian couple who live around the corner from me and do excellent work at low prices (just one of the reasons why it's better to live in Queens than Manhattan).
I think Doctor De Soto should have referred the fox to another dentist. I mean, it's not like he didn't have enough non-mice eating patients bringing in business! That said, I love the idea of a mouse dentist. I wish MY dentist was a mouse, with tiny little mouse-sized drills. They'd be much quieter and precise. Also, I bet I could pay him in cheese.
So they tell the Fox to come get his replacement tooth for the next day and during that time Doctor De Soto is clueless about what needs to be accomplished until talking to his wife does the idea come and save the day.I do not want to give the ending away because this was an entertaining book but by the time I reached the last few pages it became clear how Doctor De Soto found the solution to his problem and while it sounded familiar it was brilliant nonetheless.
When I looked into other books he wrote I found out that he is the one who wrote Shrek.
But his one rule is to not take dangerous patients like cats.
One day a fox comes to his office with a bad tooth and begs Doctor De Soto to fix his tooth.
Doctor De Soto agrees but what can he do to keep the fox from gobbling him up?I really enjoyed this one.
Not all foxes are bad.
This was a cute story with Doctor De Soto coming up with a sly (like a fox) solution to keeping that fox from snapping him up in those mighty jaws of his.
Another day, another book read to the 2nd graders. I love having this excuse to revisit children's literature. The kids quickly became invested in this story, responding to my prompts with guesses of what would happen to Dr. De Soto, Mrs. De Soto, and the fox. Their speculations were so imaginative! Colorful illustrations and a clear narrative (with complex action verbs!) that flowed from beginning to end.
Not Steig's best, but still pretty good.
I was browsing one day in the children's section and saw it - I had forgotten all about it but instantly recognised it.Doctor de Soto is, as I said, the story of a mouse dentist and his assistant wife, Mrs de Soto.
So, before his return visit when the dentist will fit a new gold tooth in the fox's mouth, Dr de Soto and his wife come up with a plan to ensure they won't be eaten.It is very much a tale of the small, vulnerable one besting, with wits, the bigger, more powerful one.
Steig, William, Doctor De Soto, Farrar, Straus and Giroux, unnumbered pages.
Review: Children will find this story hilarious, especially when Dr. De Soto climbs up a ladder to work on the teeth of his larger patients.
Doctor De Soto is probably not meant for children to read themselves.
This review focuses on Steig's unique treatment of the classic theme of animals outsmarting their predators.
By setting the story in a dentist office, this tale of predator and prey is given a strangely human twist.
It is especially mischievous to make the mouse more sly than the fox.
Slight but fun take on a beast fable, with mouse dentist Doctor De Soto catering to animals regardless of size, as long as they're not predators (e.g. cats, foxes etc.).
The conceit of anthropomorphized animals living in a human-like world, complete with occupations, cars and so on, but still engaging in predator-prey relations is a weird one, admittedly, but arguably no more weird here than in the vast majority of such stories, except here it gets foregrounded a bit more.
Hey, at least Steig didn't have the dentist kill the fox but instead merely glue his mouth shut for a couple of days, so he'll be allll better soon!
This was a cute picture book about a mouse dentist. It was cute, but it's one of the very few Newberry books I have read and thought- Why?
Although the cover didn't seem that appealing, this book turned out to be such a delightful read!
Love the art work; love the story. Clever mice, to be able to be compassionate to the fox, but still survive to do more good work! Am getting a copy to show my kind and compassionate dentist. Fortunately he does not actually have to climb inside my mouth to work - though it sometimes feels as if that is what is happening!
I'd picked this up because DENTIST MICE, but I had no idea the author was the same author of one of my most beloved childhood books, "Sylvester and the Magic Pebble". While Sylvester still has my heart, this book is also very lovely and clever, with wonderful illustrations. The dentist mice surpassed my expectations!
Una fábula muy simpática sobre ayudar a los demás, aunque estos no tengan buenas intenciones.
Clever dentist who happens to be an altruistic small mouse helps a well-dressed large, and hungry, 🦊 fox with an aching tooth! Happy ending for all. Cute pictures.
He introduces us to Doctor DeSoto in his picture book of the same name.
The plot of this book is what the DeSotos do when a well-dressed fox in a great deal of pain shows up at their doorstep begging to be helped.
It is a story that Steig handles expertly and with a great deal of cleverness.
Perhaps it did because Doctor DeSoto is a tale of compassion, cleverness, and self-preservation.
Steig, the creator of Shrek!, Dominic, and several award-winning picture books, is both the author and illustrator of Doctor DeSoto.
In this clever children’s picture book, Doctor De Soto and his wife, both mice, take on their riskiest patient yet: a fox.
Using minimal coloring and illustration, William Steig keeps the focus of his story on how foxes can be outfoxed, even by smaller creatures than them.In this book, we are introduced to a pair of credible rodents who love their dentistry work.
The consistent use of the same soft colors in the illustrated pages kept the story at comfortable pace, even as things became concerning and climactic.
So many of William Steig’s storybooks would fit for this particular age group (7-9 years); however, Dr. De Soto, a Newbery Honor Book, is special in many ways. The plot involves a mouse who happens to be a dentist and his wife/assistant who together decide to treat a red fox with a painfully rotten tooth in spite of the obvious risk that the fox will eat Dr. De Soto and probably his wife, too. Most children are able to relate to the experience of going to a dentist, also they can see the humor
So many of William Steig’s storybooks would fit for this particular age group (7-9 years); however, Dr. De Soto, a Newbery Honor Book, is special in many ways.
Most children are able to relate to the experience of going to a dentist, also they can see the humor in a little mouse agreeing to treat a huge fox, especially when the mouse must spend time in the fox’s mouth which is a very dangerous place to be.
Dr. De Soto and his wife outsmart the fox who is definitely planning to eat them by gluing his mouth shut under the pretense that the solution will protect his teeth.
Doctor and Mrs. De Soto are clever enough to outsmart a not-quite-equally clever fox who wants to eat them when they finish his dentistry. Full of great detail; I love the ladders Mrs. De Soto has to climb to bring the equipment, and even the new gold tooth, to the patient's mouth. The De Sotos' kindness and good humor in treating "dangerous animals" pays off in the end. A School Library Journal Top 100 picture book.
One day, a fox appears and pleads for help, weeping so that Dr. and Mrs. DeSoto take pity on him and agree to replace his abscessed tooth.
But the dentist and his wife demonstrate wisdom in doing good for this evil character, refusing to go back on their commitment yet not denying their real danger.
In working together, this husband and wife team demonstrate courage, unity, and mutual care, exemplifying the kind of marriage I want to be defined as normal for my children.Steig tells the story in an understated way, with effective dialogue and gentle humor.
I always enjoy William Steig's illustrations.
But there is something about his stories once in a while that leaves me kind of...upset?
I mean, he writes the book in such a way that even though I know the fox intends to eat the two mice, I still feel really sorry for him!
Is that bad/confusing writing or just me being weird?
Plus, I'm trying to look at it as just a story, but somehow the way it's written makes it seem like there is supposed to be a moral.
There are some out there who will always be bad..." Yes, I know.
This was an amusing little tale about a mouse who was a dentist. I liked seeing the interaction between the characters. The illustrations reminded me of my childhood, because we had several William Steig books and it was fun to see these pictures that brought back memories. I also liked seeing other characters from books he had written popping into this story to get their tooth fixed. It was a funny book with an interesting outcome, I would probably recommend.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2010...
Dr. DeSoto is a wonderful book about a very clever dentist who appears in the form of a mouse. He, full of compassion for hurting people, agrees to treat a fox, one of his arch enemies. William Steig uses wonderful illustrations and creative language, which is perfectly fitting, to show how compassion and intelligence can go hand in hand. This picture book is delightful not just for young readers.
1. This is a story about a brave mouse-dentist and his wife. One day, he operates on a fox. The fox believes he can outsmart them and eat them, but Dr. De Soto and his wife hatch a plan that will keep them alive and keep him away (all while healing his tooth).2. K-33. Carpet read, science4. Students who like animal stories will enjoy this book. I also think students who like doing things for others could take a lesson from it as well.5/6.
This is a very clever story about a little mouse dentist and how he and his wife outfoxed a fox. This is a fun and suspenseful story to read aloud with children. It's another great story by William Steig; we've really enjoyed his stories and we love his illustrations.
Who but William Steig can make a trip to the dentist so interesting? Modifications to the usual office design allows for dental work on patients of all sizes. Husband and wife make a good team. When they help a fox, I did wonder how they were going to come out of that experience alive. Ingenious.
**** Newbery Honor (1983) ****Clever mouse dentist Dr. De Soto treats animals of all kinds, big and small, except for dangerous enemies of mice. No cats of course. So, when a distressed fox appears with a sore tooth, Dr. De Soto at first refuses to treat him, but then reluctantly does so. Will the fox eat the dentist and his wife after his tooth is fixed?
