https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7869.The_Bourne_Identity
First of all let me say...the recent movie with Matt Damon, I hated it.
I understand shortening for time (as in The Lord of the Rings) I understand combining characters...but why take a book's title then completely rewrite the story?
I like this book and its sequels.
I hate the movie and its sequels.
Please try reading the books and finding out what the plot actually is.
The book is well plotted, thought out, with complex characters.
As noted, this is a great read and it's much better than the movie by the same name in my opinion.
Beyond the premise of a man fished from the sea with no memory but incredible ingrained abilities and talents that make it look like he's really probably and assassin with no amnesia, and the fact that the first act after the prologue occurs in Zürich and deals with a Swiss bank, nothing is the same.Sure, there's a girl named Marie, but she's an entirely different character.
But are all these differences a bad thing?No. They are not.I really think the first Bourne movie is among the best action films ever created.
That said, for most of its running time, Ludlum's 1980 novel is better than the movie.
Ludlum belongs in a very small, elite group of authors who don't know what words mean.
To illustrate this, here are some passages from the book followed by the first image that came to mind when I read them:"'If I scream, Monsieur?' The powdered mask was cracked with lines of venom now, the bright red lipstick defining the snarl of an aging, cornered rodent.""Himself.
The chameleon.
He was a man running through an unfamiliar jungle, yet somehow instinctively knowing his way, sure of where the traps were and how to avoid them.
The chameleon was an expert."Aaaand this last one was basically my face the whole time I was reading this:

This book caused me pain.
Intense boredom, odd moments of indignation, and pain.
The characters are so robotic I begin to question whether Ludlum ever met a human being, and the "romance" is not only horribly oversold BUT PREDICATED ON BOURNE USING HIS LOVE INTEREST AS A HUMAN SHIELD.
I don't care how many rapists a man rescues you from; if he introduces himself by slapping, shaking, and threatening to shoot you, HE IS NOT BOYFRIEND MATERIAL and that relationship SHOULD NOT BE SHOWN AS LOVING AND WONDERFUL.And seriously, the prose is awful.
Trap Carlos!
Find a man!
***2018 Summer of Spies*** Perhaps I came into this novel expecting a bit too much—I’ve never seen the movies, only advertising for them, so I didn’t go in completely blind to the story, but about as close as you can get in our society. I can certainly see that this would make a great shoot-‘em-up, car-chase intense movie. I really can’t say that I cared whether Bourne got his memory back or who he actually was. I would have been much more interested in more exploration of nature of the memory
Perhaps I came into this novel expecting a bit too much—I’ve never seen the movies, only advertising for them, so I didn’t go in completely blind to the story, but about as close as you can get in our society.
I can certainly see that this would make a great shoot-‘em-up, car-chase intense movie.
I really can’t say that I cared whether Bourne got his memory back or who he actually was.
I would have been much more interested in more exploration of nature of the memory loss rather than all the frantic chasing around!Kudos to him for his good taste in women, however.
The scenario is absolutely excellent and probably one of the best I ever read in terms of complexity and continuous action and/or new discoveries.
Ludlum, to my opinion, is the worst writer I've ever read, but with one of the best story-lining and imagination.
Indeed I believe Ludlum should not have worked on his own but teamed with a skilled writer who would have put that into right words and made this book into the 5-star winner it really should be.This has been my first and probably my last book from this author.
This book was my introduction to spy novels and its still the best I've read in that area. Incredibly detailed and full of suspense. My favorite spy and one of my favorite villains rolled in to one in to exhilarating package with fast pace action.If you like authentic tooch in what you read you'll love this! Must note that the movie is completely different from the book. In my opinion the book is a much better experience.
A marvelous book.
(It never actually happens, but like the thought of shark attacks, one is always wiser to be wary of the threat).But to get to the point.I remember seeing The Bourne Identity at the cinema.
Marie ends up in the hands of gangsters - (or assassins, I don’t know) - and they take her away, likely to kill her.
Jason fucking Bonehead decides he better start acting like the hero, so away he goes to save this woman that he hadn’t given a shit about before.
But I’m pretty sure there is something sexist in the fact that Jason forces this girl into the situation which leads to her almost getting raped.
I decided to finally jump on the Robert Ludlum train and read this.
It involves a man discovering his identity, losing his identity and getting caught up in the hunt for a terrorist which happens to coincide with his past.
So I'm simply left thinking to myself: what happens next?
But yes compared to some of the very few other 'thriller' thrillers I've read this is a very fine example (much better than the few snippets I've seen of Lee Child and plot-wise better than Matthew Reilly - although he has good plots nonetheless and his writing style is more accessible).
OK, there weren't any giant mutant seals at least, but right in the first pages our hero, later to be known as Jason Bourne, is shot multiple times.
Taking lots of liquids and starches to sober up, this doctor does brain surgery on Bourne!
Somehow in the midst of his solo brain surgery, the good doctor noticed the microchip in Bourne's hip with clues to his identity!All I can say is, if after a first chapter like that one you continued reading, you got what you deserved.
Eventually Marie is forced to stick it out with Jason because she's implicated as his partner in crime, but until that point, there's no good reason for her to stay with him: despite their (and the narrator's) frequent assertions that they love each other deeply, there's nothing about their actions or interactions that would suggest they actually care about each other one way or the other, and there's nothing to suggest that Marie is such a good person that she'd give up her entire life to try to help a dangerous man of questionable origins who violently kidnapped her just because it's "the right thing to do." It's like Stockholm Syndrome, except that Bourne tries to get rid of her!
After finishing the book, I can totally understand why The Bourne Identity has attained such a cult-status among it's readers.
In fact out of my 32 friends who have the book in their shelves in GR, 18 have given it a 4/5 star rating.
But, when I read a thriller, too many coincidences just makes the story lame.
As for now, I would strongly ask you to give this book a try, for at the end of the day, I cant deny that it is a pretty entertaining read!

My Rating: 2.4/5This could have been better. I am huge fan of the Bourne movies but this one is not what I expected!There are chapters that are fantastic but overall the novel is dull. The author spends two much time in explaining Bourne's thought process that you just want to scream. The characters are also not that interesting. I expected more but....I don't really recommend this one. Thank you for reading the review!P.S: I couldn't even finish the whole book. I read like half of it.
This novel was published in 1980, and the primary antagonist (who just happens to be a real life person) was left out of the 2002 film, no doubt because he was apprehended and, to some extent, demystified, in the 1990s.
The fact that this person is central to the plot of the novel, but does not appear in the film, inevitably drives a contextual wedge between the two mediums, even though the central amnesia theme remains the same.
Robert Ludlum had a unique voice, and The Bourne Identity is the grand-daddy of the modern espionage story, with its high tech (for the time) thrills and spills.
This book was so different from the movie !
) I really enjoyed the story , I now wish the movie had kept a few more things in it.
I thought marie was a much better character.
I love the way it ended.
HOWEVER : There is a TON of swearing !
And I do mean a TON !That was very disapointing .
:( but, I now have a fully edited book if someone wants to swap/sell with me.
:)I just got a black pin coverd the words.
I would have given this story a 5 if it were not for the editing .
3.5 I loved the movie (Matt Damon one), I like the book, but I did not love the book.
My biggest complaint is that in this espionage thriller there were a lot of political twists and turns that sometimes bored me or became too hard to fully understand.
Another thing is the whole Stockholm syndrome thing that did not work too well for me.
It left me asking way too many questions.
I love Ludlum's style of writing.
I did watch all the Bourne movies and I loved all of them, except the last one which was just "meh".
Robert undoubtedly possesses writing skills that elevate him above the pack, and for the most part he delivers an enjoyable, at times even immersive, experience.In the opening chapters, Robert demonstrates that he is able to guide the reader's perception of the characters masterfully.
I think Robert has clearly shown in these opening chapters that he commands writing skills that set him apart from most other thriller writers.
Still, overall, an enjoyable read.Just to pick out one thing, though, I think Robert likes playing with language and find turns of phrases that are uncommon, that would set his style apart from the pack.
While perusing the library shelves for something new to read, I came across The Bourne Identity, a 1980’s era Cold War espionage novel by Robert Ludlum.
I'm not usually a reader of this genre of fiction, but based on what I felt had been an excellent film, I borrowed the book.
As Bourne discovered or reacted to each development, I felt as if I were there with him, or perhaps watching from across the street.
I had to look a number of words up in the dictionary while reading the book.
The good part is that you don’t know what’s going to happen based on Matt Damon’s adventures; the bad part is that it’s not nearly as much fun.This is about as close as Ludlum gets to a semi-realistic espionage thriller.
When Ludlum wrote The Bourne Identity, Ilich Ramirez Sanchez – aka Carlos – was the hot flavor-of-the-week for global terrorism and not a great deal was known about him.
It’s very much a product of its time and should be read as such.
There I met Robert Ludlum's Jason Bourne.
The dramatic scenes, Bourne's unexplained money and combat skills he has no knowledge of, come in handy.
( The only complaint  was  the names seemed copied after other legendary spy, James Bond.
Well, they both share many characteristics of great spy so similarities are welcome.
And coming to movies, Bourne series is said to be "loosely based on novels" don't count.
I read them too because Jason Bourne had made a strong impact in very first rendezvous.
When I heard Ludlum is on Dan Brown's admiration list, I wasn't amazed.
The first book of the Bourne trilogy series, The Bourne Identity begins the tale of Jason Bourne, one of the US government's greatest assassin creations, rescued by fishermen off the French coast.
He does not know his name nor his profession.
He only knows what his body has been trained to do.
The adventure starts, and can only start, with the only piece of information Jason Bourne has...a Swiss bank account number, found imprinted on a minute negative surgically implanted in his hip.
Ironically, the entire Bourne movie trilogy is solely based on this first book, not the other two.
Geçmişi Olmayan Adam uzun zamandır aradığım ama bir türlü bulamadığım bir kitap, ne kitapçılarda ne sahaflarda ne de internette bulamadım.
Bir ara tesadüfen e-kitap halini bulunca da çok sevindim ve nihayet okuyabildim.
Uzun zamandır aksiyon kitabı okumuyordum bu kitap iyi geldi.
Kitabın kurgusunu ve sunumunu beğendim, bir çok olay oluyor, kitap sizi oradan oraya sürüklüyor ve hiç sıkılmadan kendinizi olayın akışına bırakabiliyorsunuz.
Karakterler ve Jason'ın geçmiş hayatı ile ilgili gizemler sizi kitaba daha çok bağlıyor.
Geçmişi Olmayan Adam, türünde başarılı bulduğum bir kitap oldu, yazarın diğer kitaplarını da merak ediyorum ancak yazarın kitaplarını bulmak oldukça zor.
Terrific pulse-pounding thriller that has its fair share of twists and turns. Who is Jason Bourne? Who can you trust? Ludlum does a fabulous job of creating a mystery that weaves it's way through various points in time and in several locales. The characters are also top notch. This is action and intrigue at its finest
The best opening scenes ever set a compelling premise.
If you've seen The Bourne Identiy movies starring Matt Damon, but you've not read the book by Robert Ludlum upon which the movies are loosely based, you owe it to yourself to read this early 80s spy-thriller.
He's an undercover US operative with the name Jason Bourne, yet he doesn't remember that his mission was to expose and kill the world's deadliest assassin, Carlos the Jackal (a historical figure from the 70s).
I first read this book back in junior high or high school, back in the early 80s, and I still remember the last narrative paragraph and two lines of dialogue at the end.
I saw and enjoyed the movie years ago but the story never gripped me enough to make me hurry to read the book.
First, its a great story.
Strength in that it's a great plot, but it's a bit of a weakness as the amnesiac main character keeps us from forming an immediate attachment to the character.
This is not my favorite genre but it hooked me nonetheless, I'll most likely pick up and read the next installment but again, I feel no great need to do so immediately.
I saw the first movie and didn't understand nothing. Too much action! But this retold version is quite different from the movies, because the story takes place after the Vietnam War. But now I completely understand this abridged version from the original book (with MP3). I studied German at the university 30 years ago and thought this language was very difficult, but learning English is also very difficult, but I'll succeed.
