https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28297.Species_of_Spaces_and_Other_Pieces
As a way of reviewing this marvelous collection, I will cite a few quotes and offer brief comments on one essay, a 95 pager, where Perec writes about spaces moving from the micro to the macro, starting with The Page, The Bed, The Bedroom, The Apartment, The Apartment Building, The Street.The Page“This is how space begins, with words only, signs traced on the blank page.
As Georges Perec said in his interview, the empty spaces he leaves after his death are an invitation for others to continue the play and game of language and writing.And in this essay he keeps on expanding: The Neighborhood, The Town, The Countryside, The Country, Europe, The World, Space.
Genius.. και καψιαρικο!
First time reading Perec. It felt strange, real, dreamy and at times, too honest. I liked it. And i believe, the more time passes, the more i am into the book. Great stuff.
I think, in order to properly review Species of Spaces you have to be as genius as Perec was and I'm not. I don't think there's any point in talking about this little book. Just read it and let it make its way inside you the way it's meant to. It must also be quite an experience to read it under the influence of hallucinogenics, although, it can act like one by itself. Great stuff!
Perec pays close attention (when I say close attention, I REALLY mean close attention) to everything around him, zooming out from the page he writes on the the whole of the space and it's nature, along the way he observes things as simple as a man locking his car to go to the store, the number and types of places he has slept in, and what happens to the picture and the wall its hung on, all in an inviting, welcoming voice.
It's an eye-opener, and reading Perec certainly makes you feel truly alive, he will drag you out of a slumber, and give you a shot of Espresso with this book.
Πρώτη φορά διαβάζω Περέκ και οι εντυπώσεις που μου άφησε είναι πολύ καλές. Δεν ξέρω πόσοι συγγραφείς έχουν την ικανότητα να συλλογίζονται, να φαντάζονται και να δημιουργούν έργο, από απλά, βαρετά και ίσως φαινομενικά ανούσια πράγματα των όσων μας περιβάλλουν -στην πραγματικότητα το σκηνικό που στήνεται όλη μας η ζωή: οι δρόμοι, τα σπίτια, οι άνθρωποι που συναντάμε καθημερινά...
(Perec considers this type of space when he “tried to think of an apartment in which there would be a useless room, absolutely and intentionally useless…[but] language itself, seemingly, proved unsuited to describing this nothing, this void, as if we could only speak of what is full, useful, functional” [33].) So what “space” then?
If my wife, son, and dog didn’t suddenly invade my space on the couch in the living room with my book, I might like to continue this activity.
If you want a plot, or if you want a cohesive argument, then Perec isn't for you.
In this slender volume of spatial meditations, lists, word games, and other odd ends, Perec as a person shines forth.
Even in the autobiographical, W or the Memory of Childhood, the childhood reminiscences didn't give us a terribly good idea of Perec-the-adult.
But in Espèces d'Espace, it really feels like he's chatting with the reader.
OK, not chatting, but smoking a blunt and monologuing about all his clever takes on the world today.
Normally, I don't like it when folks do that.
But I like it when Georges Perec does.
Riflessioni sullo spazio dal piccolo al grande, dal nostro letto all’universo infinito. Perec le focalizza su casa, condominio e città. Alcuni spunti sono interessanti, con una buon indice di apertura mentale. Complessivamente un po’ ozioso, ugualmente leggibile perché formato da capitoli brevissimi. Facile da interrompere, digeribile, si può leggere in autobus, al parco, in fila alle poste.
With these, the sense of the world’s concreteness, irreducible, immediate, tangible, of something clear and closer to us: of the world, no longer as a journey having constantly to be remade, not as a race without end, a challenge having constantly to be met, not as the one pretext for a despairing acquisitiveness, nor as the illusion of a conquest, but as the rediscovery of a meaning, the perceiving that the earth is a form of writing, a geography of which we had forgotten that we ourselves are
Which sounds a lot like much of Perec’s fiction – because it is – and in some small way provides a greater level of insight into the way Perec thought and how that thought directly acted on his writing.What’s fascinating is that the rest of the book – gathered together from various sources and time periods – could be said to explore the same theory of space and its occupation.
توجد ترجمة جميلة للكتاب بعنوان "فصائل الفضاءات" للمترجم المغربي عبد الكبير الشرقاوي
نص كالهاوية، عن كل المحيطات حول الإنسان، حول جورج بيرك، والآخرين، عن معنى الفضاء والمكان والذكريات والفيزياء والجغرافيا والتاريخ والأدب والأسرة والنوم والحقائب التي تصير أحياناً وطناً على حد تعبير مظفر النواب، الكتاب/ النص عن هذا كله، معاني المكان العالم وأوروبا وفرنسا وباريس والحي والشارع والمنزل والغرفة والكلمات المتقاطعة والتاريخ اليومي الذي يصير حدثاً شخصياً لا يعني الآخرين بشيءٍ إلا لكونه نصاً يلامسهم، ويشير عليهم ويأخذهم نحو كل ما هو فضاءٌ عامٌ أو خاصٌ بذاته، النصوص ليست رحلة انتقال من العام إلى الخاص بل سيرة لكليهما، سيرة للغرفة والمنزل ووو، والإنسان.
Questo andar per luoghi (2) Non cercare di trovare troppo rapidamente una definizione della città; non è cosa da poco, e ci sono molte probabilità di sbagliarsi.
Osservare la strada, di tanto in tanto, magari con una cura un po’ sistematica.Applicarsi, fare tutto con calma.Annotare il luogo: i tavolini di un caffè vicino all’incrocio Bac-Saint-Germainl’ora: le sette di serala data: 15 maggio 1973il tempo: bello stabileAnnotare quello che si vede.
Mi piacerebbe ideare e risolvere problemi analoghi a quello dei ponti di Koenigsberg, o, per esempio, trovare un itinerario che, attraversando tutta Parigi, passi soltanto per strade che cominciano con la lettera C.Mi piace la mia città, ma non saprei dire che cosa esattamente mi piace.
Take his essay, “Objects That Are On My Work Table.” As you might have guessed from the title, the essay is a boring list of the boring objects on Perec’s boring table.
Apparently there are those who do want to hear it, though, because this book seems pretty well reviewed here, but I suspect people take a look at Perec’s delightfully wild hair and absurd goatee, read his tragic personal history on the back of the book, and then feel too bad to write that the bulk of his writing is amiably pretentious bunk.
And yet, I admire his willingness to experiment (and some of his experiments actually work) and there are some very good paragraphs here and there.
Il est très agréable et rassurant de savoir que ce genre de livre existe. On n'a pas le temps de s'ennuyer car cette oeuvre est assez dynamique. Les quelques références donnée par l'auteur sont intrigante et pertinente. Ca donne envie de visiter Paris.
«Los elefantes generalmente se dibujan más pequeños que su tamaño natural, pero una pulga siempre es más grande».Jonathan Swift
ContinuareFinché il luogo diventi improbabile
I was expecting something difficult to read, but the only part that went over my head were the word games at the end of the book, (kudos to anyone who knew the answers to these) and I still loved reading about them.
I loved this approach to writing and if you're looking for inspiration, this is an excellent book.
Thanks to how easily Perec made it seem to spill letters all over the blank space, I am happy to give this book my first review.With all that style there is plenty of substance.
this: "Space melts like sand running through one's fingers.
Time bears it away and leaves me only shapeless shreds: To write: to try meticulously to retain something, to cause something to survive; to wrest a few precise scraps from the void as it grows, to leave somewhere a furrow, a trace, a mark or a few signs." and also this: "the world, no longer as a journey having constantly to be remade, not as a race without an end, a challenge having constantly to be met, not as the one pretext for a despairing acquisitiveness, nor as the illusion of a conquest, but as the rediscovery of a meaning, the perceiving that the earth is a form of writing, a geography of which we had forgotten that we ourselves are the authors." This is one of those books that can be read over and over again.
An incredible writer.
Comprised of lists (things to do before death), food inventories (everything ingested in 1974), vignettes about space (page, bedroom, apartment, street, country, space, etc...), and autobiographical essays with sentences that describe everyday objects and allude to 20th c.
atrocity in the same breath (he was orphaned by the holocaust and never mentions it)...his emotionally reticent style and tendency to withhold & supply detail at all the wrong moments give the reader the "space" to have emotional reactions when you least expect it.
He is obsessed with mapping movements and spaces otherwise taken for granted, documenting the quotidian, infusing mundane objects with meaning and detail and withholding commentary as a form of reverence.
Not at all satisfying.
Georges Perec comes across as very, very, creepy.
And his schtick is mostly 'list' mania.
Every chapter is about little else than this fetish of his.
He simply makes mental lists of everything around him and everything he can ever remember being around him.
Lists of things to do, lists of things he hasn't done, lists of things he did once, lists of things he'll never do again.
It quickly grows wearisome.
Moreover, the writing style is dry and crackling, uncooperative, choppy, sluggish.
A painful wade.
Merleau-Ponty, Rilke, and even Gaston Bachelard write rings around this guy.
By far my favorite work of Perec, and probably in my top ten books of all time. It is a great introduction to his style; if you can't get into this, don't bother with Perec. One of my favorite works struggling with the enigma of the written word, what it means to be a writer, what it means to be a reader.
"Escribir: tratar de retener algo meticulosamente, de conseguir que algo sobreviva: arrancar unas migajas precisas al vacío que se excava continuamente, dejar en alguna parte un surco, un rastro, una marco o algunos signos"Perec insufla amor por la literatura. Cada párrafo contiene miles de historias abiertas para que tu imaginación les de forma.
This man was a genius. This is a great collection to take your time over, and savor every word. There are so many of them, and they make you think in so many new ways.
I love the list of everything he ate for a year.I wish he'd lived longer, so we could have been friends.
This book is simply wonderful.
I had to read a piece of it for a class but ended up finishing the whole book in the end.
Once I was struck by Perec's unconventional and enjoyable way of writing, I just had to read more.(If you haven't heard of Perec, there is a chance you might have heard of one of his books.
It's a piece of trivia I encountered many years before I came across its author.
I was also fascinated by his pieces on categorisation and memory, and what makes all this so enjoyable is his playfulness.
Paris’te yaşasaydım ya da oraları görmüş olsaydım daha iyi mi anlardım diye sordum kendime? Elbette bu yazarın değil, benim eksikliğim ya da yazar ülke sınırlarını aşacak bir eser çıkaracağını kestirememiş olabilir mi? Paris sokakları ve kültürü ile ilgili tüm espirilere ve anlatımlara deyim yerindeyse “Fransız kaldım”...O kısımları kaçırdığım için de kendimi ‘alt yazıyı okurken filmdeki olayları tam takip edememiş’ gibi hissediyorum bu sebepten ötürü üç yıldız verdim.
George Perec is an author whose work fills me with delight, Species of Space and the other pieces found in this collection are wonderful. Insightful. Playful. Everyday. Extraordinary. Not least because he loves lists as much as I do, more perhaps. I read his piece on the  Place Sans-Sulpice , and meant to read this too before going to Paris. So now it calls me back.I particularly love how Perec is obsessed with space, but approaches it completely differently than would a planner, an architect, a
George Perec is an author whose work fills me with delight, Species of Space and the other pieces found in this collection are wonderful.
Each thing he describes, he begins with the most banal and simple of descriptions, but it serves to take something familiar and make it suddenly unfamiliar -- and because the time and space between us, what is familiar to Perec is in fact not always familiar to me.4.A few other banalities:We spend more than a third of our lives in bed.
If Perec were a film maker rather than a writer, this would probably be an extra feature on the Criterion edition of Life: A User's Manual (or W Or The Memory Of Childhood, which was written at the same time and isn't entirely unrelated, especially when he tests his theories on Auschwitz and his hypothetical childhood at the end).
For it is language that throws a bridge between the world and ourselves, language that transcends the world by expressing the inexpressible, and establishes that fundamental relation between the individual and History out of which comes our freedom."At this level, language and signs become decipherable once again.
The world is no longer that chaos which words devoid of meaning despair of describing.
It is a living, difficult reality that the power of words gradually overcomes.
This is how literature begins, when, in and through language, the transformation begins - which is far from self-evident and far from immediate - that enables an individual to become aware, by expressing the world and be addressing others."
