https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5126859-the-girl-who-chased-the-moon
3.5 stars Sarah Addison Allen is one of the very few ladies' lit authors I can tolerate. Her stories are sweet and fluffy and utterly insubstantial, but they're nice when you need a break from heavier fare. I always know what I'm asking for when I pick one up, so I can't complain too much afterward that they're sappy and implausible. That would be like ordering vanilla ice cream and then complaining that it wasn't mashed potatoes and gravy. Or buying a Britney Spears CD and then wondering why it
That would be like ordering vanilla ice cream and then complaining that it wasn't mashed potatoes and gravy.
Anyway, my point is that you go into a Sarah Allen story knowing it's a confection, and you just happen to have a sweet tooth at the moment.
She spends a lot of time building a back story for her characters, getting me really interested in the secrets of their past and making me curious about their futures.
Then, when all has been revealed and it's time to tie up the story, she hits me with a bang-boom-bomb-bing-wham-bam-damn-thank-you-ma'am ending that leaves me feeling like the entire book was just foreplay.
I fell easily into Addison Allen's world, but felt nothing for the characters within.I felt like she had two great ideas for two different books (Julia's sort of chick-lit story and Emily's sort of young adult romance story) but didn't have either flushed out enough to stand alone so she pushed them together.
Addison Allen says that Emily and her mother were close, but she never really gets that across from the character's POV, the reader never feels it.If Addison Allen took as much time with her character development as she did with her descriptions of the world around them, this would have been a five-star book.
Two Christmases ago, my co-worker gave me a book. No surprise there, but the particular book she presented me with was unlike anything I had ever come across before. The book was  Garden Spells  by Sarah Addison Allen and the genre was magical realism. As soon as I started in, I was lost. I was in love. Upon sinking into the story, I found myself awash in mouth-watering food, complicated yet beautiful relationships, and surrounded by intriguing people with a little touch of magic. Did I mention
I really didn't need much more incentive than that.Following the death of her beloved, activist mother Dulcie, Emily Benedict is sent to live with the grandfather she never knew she had in the small town of Mullaby, NC.
Needless to say Emily is feeling a little lost and sorely overwhelmed when she meets the strange and decidedly attractive Win Coffey whose cryptic references to their 'history' leave Emily rather curious about the past and determined to uncover the secrets surrounding her mother.Living next door to Emily is Julia Winterson - baker extraordinaire and a woman who is counting the days until she can escape Mullaby.
The storylines weren't original - half the novel ripped off Twilight.
A teenage boy named Win, along with the other males in his family never leave the house at night because of a freakish skin condition (no they don't sparkle, they glow in the dark, though that's not far off) and Win has a habit of sneaking into the bedroom of the girl he likes at night to watch her sleep.
I recommend this novel to teenage girls aged 12-16 that are looking for a light read for the beach that doesn't require much of your attention.
The Girl Who Chased the MoonFive stars: Another delicious, heart felt read from Sarah Addison Allen.What is home to you?
I feel like they are old friends after hearing their stories, that manage to reach out and touch my heart.
Emily discovers that the town of Mullaby holds a grudge against her mother for a past transgression.
Emily rectifies her mother's past and establishes her place in the town.
In its pages you will meet some new friends, who will invite you to Mullaby for a decadent piece of cake and a sweet story about the journey to home.
As she works to get back to the life she left, she finds there's a part of her past that is waiting to resurface and hopefully offer a different outcome than the last time she was in Mullaby.One thing these both girls have in common… They are both chasing the moon in search of happiness…Great read that will leave you wanting to read more about Emily/Win and Julia/Sawyer, but not because the story abruptly ends, but rather because you come to care about the people of Mullaby.
4.5 stars. Loved it - characters were so 'climb into my heart' kind of people. Loved the magical elements, Vance, the frog, Julia, Emily. Onto the keeper shelf.
I enjoy reading books by Sarah Addison Allen.
This is the story of Emily, a young girl who has lost her mother, and returns to the town where her mother grew up.
Julia bakes cakes and there is a particular reason she bakes cakes.Sarah Addison Allen is a food lover, there is no denying that.
However, I had a family member visiting recently and I happened to be listening to the audio while making dinner.
Family member (who is a huge book reader) loved the narrator and wants to start listening to audios now.
She found it quite soothing to listen to someone read to her.
This was one of my most magical reads of the year! I am absolutely in love with this sweet, adorable story. And I'm not a sweet story person even!  For anyone who loved Practical Magic, this is the softer and more sepia tale that will not give you even a drop of sadness. Well, maybe a little bit of wistfulness! Please, come read my  full review on the blog here and find out why I loved this story so much.Read Post On My Blog | My Bookstagram | Bookish Twitter
I really enjoyed and liked Sarah Addison Allen's previous two books so I was excited when I found out she had another out.
The characters drew you in as did the town but it seemed as though she could have written a much more in depth story here.
The book description boast a town of quirky people.
Yes the characters we met had quirks, some not all but it didn't seem like it was the whole town was quirky.
I liked the book but felt like it may have been written quick or edited down to something quicker.Still a good read from Sarah Addison Allen.
I enjoyed this, it's a little book filled with unusual magic :) I loved the house and it's strange wallpaper, I loved the Grandfather, I loved the whole plot!This is a book I'll probably keep on my shelf, rather than take it back to the second hand store for someone else to buy :)
I just want to live inside every single Sarah Addison Allen book. Seriously. I can't express how much I love the worlds and characters she creates. If those place actually existed I would be packing my bags and moving there.
The Girl Who Chased The Moon follows two story lines that converge in the small town of Mullaby, North Carolina.
Apparently Emily's mom Dulcie grew up in the small southern town, although she's never told Emily anything about her life there or the tragedy she left behind.Julia Winterson grew up in Mullaby and has only been back for the past year and a half, trying to get her finances in order after her father died and left his restaurant to her.
I loved both Emily and Julia's stories and could have read a full book about both of them.
Oh goodness, again Sarah Addison Allen has written a charming book. Just enough magic, glitter and sugar. I loved every page....
I read this several years ago, and liked it okay, but honestly didn't recall why parts of the book didn't gel with me.
The other story didn't fit, and I just felt annoyed every time we shifted between Emily's story to Julia's story.In "The Girl Who Chased the Moon" Emily Benedict moves to Mullaby, North Carolina, to live with her maternal grandmother after her mother dies.
Unfortunately the Coffey family has issues with the two hanging out.Allen jumps between Emily's story and Julia's.
I wish Allen had focused more on Emily and her grandfather.
I received an advance copy of this through First Reads, a program which consistently makes me happy.Allen is one of those authors who puts me in a pensive mood, like my brain has to digest her style and story for a bit before I can really decide what to do with it.
I am also willfully old-fashioned in my appreciation of her plotting.This book satifies my desire, left over from childhood, for things to be put right - even the characters recognize that it's like a fairy story.
I like this about the book, and about Allen as an author.
This is the third novel by Allen that I've read, and I am happy to say they cannot be pigeonholed.
It was outrageously flaunting its age, spitting paint chips and old roofing shingles into the yard."There isn't much action in this plot, it's more about how people think of each other, and the exposition of the theme takes all the room.
In this book, I think the magic is used metaphorically to stand for ideas.Though this isn't my preferred genre, I will be happy to read anything this author comes out with in the future.
4 stars for Julia's story2 stars for that other story that ran parallel to Julia's * * * * *Not quite a 4-star book, but rounded up because I couldn't stop reading.
This is not what I normally consider a good book--half of it was so good that it hurt, the other half was only meh and I skimmed through those parts--but the moment I finished it, I wanted to read it again immediately, and so I did.
I ended up reading it twice in less than 24 hours, and I'd read it over again if I had the time.
Curious as to why her mother never mentioned her time at home and she never came back to visit, Emily wants to learn about the obvious story lurking in this small town, and why some seem cold to her.Will she have to live with the sins of her mothers past?...It's been almost 20 years since, once troubled teen, Julia Winterson has come back home to Mullaby.
I think what I loved the most about it was that this wasn't a story that was overpowering, it's a very simple story of two women and the men in there lives but it left me believing in love, magic and most of all hope.Very Squeal-worthy, in fact I really hope we'll see more about Julia and Emily in the near future!
I rated it more of a 3, because it's not quite the same literary quality that I would rate higher, but if I categorized and rated on light hearted reads?
You can easily imagine the "we do what we've always done because that's who we are" mentality that stretches through this small town.While I am not much for "magic" sorts of things (other than Harry Potter, of course), the parts of this book that take on a fantasy element just add a special quality - like it's something that would happen in this time, in this place.
I'm so pleased to see that Sarah Addison Allen came back to her magical writing as she did in Garden Spells. This woman has such an incredible knack for describing sight, sound and feelings with food. What better combination can a book have than love and sugar?! Combine some magic, lots of romance, a bit of mystery, some elusive lights glowing in the woods, tasty sweets and what do you have? The perfect recipe called  The Girl Who Chased The Moon .And on a side note...man alive, Sawyer to me was
I'm so pleased to see that Sarah Addison Allen came back to her magical writing as she did in Garden Spells.
This woman has such an incredible knack for describing sight, sound and feelings with food.
What better combination can a book have than love and sugar?!
Combine some magic, lots of romance, a bit of mystery, some elusive lights glowing in the woods, tasty sweets and what do you have?
The perfect recipe called 
The Girl Who Chased The Moon
.And on a side note...man alive, Sawyer to me was the same Sawyer from the show Lost.
Hot dog!
Verdadeiramente encantador! Opinião em http://bioquimicadaleitura.blogspot.p...
This was a light and fluffy read. I don't mind these every now and then, but I could not do them every day. I've read two other books by this author and unfortunately they didn't fare well in my reviews. But I liked this one. It was entertaining and I liked the characters. They were flawed but very likable. I also liked the story lines. There were a few different ones, so it was nice that it wasn't about just the one thing. So 4 stars.
Мне кажется, я фанат женских романов про маленькие городки в южных штатах(они даже Нью-Гэмпшир потеснили в моем сердце
Eh... Just not my thing. I didn't really connect to the characters and it was pretty slow. Plus not very clean. Also the magic realism was in it so little it seemed like a random add-on to a contemporary and just didn't work somehow. BUT if you like contemporaries and want a sweet summer read, you'd probably enjoy this! Just know this is meant for adult readers and had some inappropriate things in it.
Charming novel of second chances in small-town North Carolina.
Parts of it reads more like a YA than an adult book, but it had a good mix and I found that it was very fluid.SynopsisEmily Benedict came to Mullaby, North Carolina, hoping to solve at least some of the riddles surrounding her mother’s life.
Emily was a little less relatable since she was a teenager, but she was still very likable and she had to put up with quite a bit, and despite that she stayed pretty level headed so readers do not have to deal with a lot of teen drama.
Grandpa Vance's revelation about what really happened before was shocking (view spoiler)[on how Emily's mom take all the blame for Logan's suicide, the thing about them glowing (btw it is very cool!) the exposure and all, her mom was not really the way people think she is (hide spoiler)] Their story reminds me of Romeo and Juliet, family feud thing but in a quite different and magical way this is.
Emily and Win together I love!
(view spoiler)[The daughter I was excited to read the story about her life.
(hide spoiler)]Book was amazing.
When Emily Benedict's mother dies, Emily goes to her old hometown to live with her grandfather Vance.
As Emily searches for her mother's history, she becomes entangled with mysterious Win Coffey, who has secrets of his own.
Meanwhile, Vance's neighbor Julia Winterson, bakes delicious concoctions and dreams of her past, of connections made but long broken.
Partly it was because I was much more drawn to the Julia parts than to Emily and Win, especially once a plot element was revealed which reminded me far too much of Twilight.
I thoroughly enjoyed The Girl Who Chased the Moon.
And then there's the light that dances through the woods, and the hope and love that's baked into Julia's cakes - so much that it floats through the air to reach those with a 'sweet sense' (one of the reasons why her cakes sell so well?).This is my 2nd Sarah Addison Allen, and I loved both of them.
The emotional conflicts in which she puts her characters are poignant and believable, and I enjoy the ways she has them work them out.
