https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38458.Nobody_Knows_My_Name
An interesting transition between the raw passion of Notes of a Native Son and the prophetic rhetoric of The Fire Next Time, Nobody Knows My Name is as eloquent as either work. The essays collected here range from an analysis of the ties between racial and national identity in America through a memoir of the author's relationship with Richard Wright to a critique of Norman Mailer's work. Regardless of what his subject is, though, Baldwin is uniformly brilliant in this collection. Favorite essays included "Princes and Powers," "A Fly in the Buttermilk," "Nobody Knows My Name," and "Alas, Poor Richard."
Any commentary I could make would do poor service to his writing and his ideas, but the more and more I read this book the more I appreciate his voice, reasoned, calm, pleading of an understanding to the issue of race which even the most "liberated" of us only poorly grasp.Even more, knowing this collection of essays was written nearly fifty years ago, it is hard to imagine how deeply we have sunk back into a sense of complacency regarding race issues and discrimination.
I can only imagine what is ultimately wrong with us, and whether we can overcome ourselves, or if there is any hope for us.
These collected musings have a superior way of giving us an understanding of America's identity crisis.
A problem seeking a renewed solution- if not a renewed purpose.The setting in Fifth Avenue, Uptown: A letter from Harlem is the centerpiece of every other setting in this essay.
The reader plainly sees the disturbing contradictions in north Manhattan.Princes and Powers and Nobody Knows My Name: A Letter from the South are two favorites in this essay.
I nicknamed this part of the collection 'the poser section.' Lets just say this story reverberates the reason why decent ideas like Tarentino's Django will never represent justice in America's race issues.
I don't even know how to begin to express my feelings about this book, so I won't even try.
All I know is that the entire day went by while reading it and I didn't even notice because I was so involved in what the author is saying here and in his writing.
There are a LOT of things that the author says that continue to remain pertinent to this day -- especially to this day -- and it really needs to be read, digested and remembered.
I'm buying every book of his I can get my hands on.
The question of color takes up much space in these pages, but the question of color, especially in this country, operates to hide the graver questions of the self. That is precisely why what we like to call “the Negro problem” is so tenacious in American life, and so dangerous. But my own experience proves to me that the connection between American whites and blacks is far deeper and more passionate than any of us like to think. Κάθε άνθρωπος, και παραφράζω εδώ τον Richard Ayoade στο Submarine,
Ο Baldwin, μεροληπτικός όπως ομολογεί, ασχολείται κατεξοχήν με τις φυλετικές σχέσεις στην Αμερική, ενδιαφέρεται ιδιαίτερα για την αφομοίωση που επέβαλε η αποικιοκρατία, με τις συγκεκριμένες σχέσεις να απαιτούν από το άτομο να αποκοπεί από το πλαίσιο στο οποίο όφειλε την ταυτότητά του, να αντικαταστήσει τις συνήθειές του, τις σκέψεις και τις δράσεις του από ένα άλλο σύνολο συνηθειών που ανήκε στους ξένους που τον κυριάρχησαν.
But anyone who lives in Harlem and imagines that he has not struck this bargain, or that what he takes to be his status (in whose eyes?) protects him against the common pain, demoralization and danger, is simply self-deluded.
Two things I liked best about this collection: 1) the order in which the essays are arranged (thanks to the editor) and 2) the glimpses at Baldwin's inner struggles, which brought me closer to learning more about one of my favorite authors: "And here I was, at thirty-two, finding my notoriety hard to bear, since its principal effect was to make me more lonely; money, it turned out, was exactly like sex, you thought of nothing else if you didn't have it and thought of other things if you did; and love, as far as I could see, was over.
this book is extremely courageous...he's talking about what it's like to be a gay african american in late fifties and early sixties.
a lot of the sentences where he writes about himself starts with "I didn't understand then that..."in the book he comes back from france (after a 10 year visit because he wanted to escape the racism and homophobia of the USA) and visits the south for the first time.
i got the impression when i read this book "i really want to meet this man...i know i wouldn't be the same afterwards" happy that he left so much writing for us to understand.
JB tone appeared to me to be more mature than the previous essay book I read Notes of a Native Son. I think the changes JB goes through at this time, realising that he needs to go back to America in order to grow as a man and a writer and his visits to the American south, have caused a shift in his writing. Even handling of the relationships with fellow writers Richard Wright and Norman Mailer have a certain empathy, gentle understanding.As always an introspective read.  Read with Maya June 2016
JB tone appeared to me to be more mature than the previous essay book I read Notes of a Native Son. I think the changes JB goes through at this time, realising that he needs to go back to America in order to grow as a man and a writer and his visits to the American south, have caused a shift in his writing. Even handling of the relationships with fellow writers Richard Wright and Norman Mailer have a certain empathy, gentle understanding.As always an introspective read.
  
Read with Maya June 2016 - another stop in our Baldwin journey.
I never want to stop reading this.It is chewy like toffee, has the sharp clarity of a handful of topaz, & still has the urgency of a horse race.I cannot believe that anyone has ever been this insightful, smart, & compassionate about the failings of his fellow man, while still being able to see their faults in startling clarity.
But I still believe that the unexamined life is not worth living: and I know that self-delusion, in the service of no matter what small or lofty cause, is a price no writer can afford. His subject is himself and the world and it requires every ounce of stamina he can summon to attempt to look on himself and the world as they are.Felt more mature than Notes of a Native Son. Recommended.
This is a collection of 13 essays, its title suggesting that Baldwin is going to expound on 'the race problem'.
Baldwin did not just write each essay; he crafted them.
Two vibrant sub-themes stand out: What it means to be a writer - and what it means to be an American (and, by extension, what America means as a country; more specifically, Baldwin explores the 'myth' of America).
But it's the 'ghost' of America which, more than anything else, haunts this book.
America has no greater writer and critic than Baldwin. I would give him 10 stars for everything he's ever written. This book is superb and I am not worthy to offer a critique.
In every collection of essays, some are good and some are not as good. Only with Baldwin, the good are absolutely brilliant, and the not as good are merely excellent. To think he wrote those in the 1950s is almost beyond belief - his ideas on race and identity in the States are illuminating even today.
Simply stunning, and disheartening. To think that this was written in the mid-50s and how much of it is still prescient and relevant to racial strife today. If you've not read this, sit down with it for a little while. The parallels of today leap off the page. And Baldwin's writing is direct, sincere, and not egotistical. I would love to write this way!
If you handed someone this book with no cover, no author, they'd be hard-pressed to believe it hadn't been written last week.
Now, this country is going to be transformed.
It will not be transformed by an act of God, but by all of us, by you and me.
I don't believe any longer that we can afford to say that it is entirely out of our hands.
to say that baldwin was prophetic is to imply that he was able to see into the future, when really what he was doing was contemplating a present which is still (shamefully, depressingly) with us today.
reading something like "princes and powers," for example, only makes me realize in hindsight how postcolonial theory really has helped advance more productive ways of thinking about nation-states without actually replicating or buying into the authority of the nation-state itself.
the essay serves as a series of extended notes about the conference, and they work as an honest, warts-and-all account of the political landscape that was generating momentum at the time.
he'd be a welcome alternative to the idiotic soapboxing that scars so much of out current socio-political discourse, but i digress...another highlight is baldwin's eulogy for richard wright, which extends and perhaps even corrects some of his own criticisms from his previous essay collection, notes of a native son.
or maybe baldwin simply set the bar for film criticism too high with his criminally under-read the devil finds work, which i think is an absolute masterpiece.
The essays collected herein were first published between 1954 and 1961 -- before the Freedom Riders, before Freedom Summer, before "I have a dream," before the bombing of a Birmingham church, before the Voting Rights Act of 1965, before black rage overtook the cities, before the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. Yet despite, or perhaps because of, the changes and the backslidings of subsequent decades his perceptions of and insights into the workings of power and what it means to be "American" are still challenging.Several of the essays here profile or explore the work of other writers: William Faulkner, André Gide, Richard Wright, Norman Mailer, and the filmmaker Ingmar Bergman.
I can't believe it has taken me so long to read James Baldwin. When reading this book it felt as if Baldwin could write better than I could think. I believe that this collection of essays should be required reading for every person in America. I am looking forward to reading more from Baldwin and would not only recommend that everyone read Nobody Knows My Name but strongly encourage they do.
I first read this book probably 50 years ago! It is still relevant, offering a searing, beautifully written commentary on racism, what it means to be an American, and how one constructs one's identity. Ironically, it is just as important a text for our day as it ever was.
What can you say about Baldwin? I've been on a bit of a mission to read his work recently and even the recent re-readings of Go Tell It On The Mountain and Notes Of a Native Son have hit me in new ways. I have no idea what it can possibly mean to grow up black in America. I wish I had known more and read more over the years. I can't think of anyone from the past that would be more relevant (sadly) to the current state of things in America.
It is disheartening that the issues Baldwin talks at length about the African American experience is still so pertinent, but is also a privilege to be able to read works that have so aptly captured complex sentiments and thoughts that many struggle to communicate.
I am surprised that I have not read this earlier-- more schools should incorporate this into their syllabus.
I will admit that I did not enjoy all of his essays equally--the ones on Wright and Norman felt a bit dragged on especially captured to the other ones.
In any case, a must read and highly recommended.
Forgive the flippance due to some personal time constraints, but I almost want to give the unfairly reductive review of: "Ho hum, another outstanding Baldwin collection." Nobody Knows My Name is probably Baldwin's strongest offering regarding indicting the North for its own crimes against Civil War released slaves and Black settlers during and after the Civil War. While he touches on the subject of comparing and contrasting Northern and Southern racism, and has, in other volumes, spoken of the need for Northerners to feel just as implicated, it is most "brought up" here.
i liked it a lot. only 4 stars instead of 5 because one of the essays i didn't like at all (the one about the conference) and a few others were not as amazing as i'd hoped. but most of them were fabulous and thought provoking and i continue to be astounded at how good of a writer he was.
Following Notes of a Native Son, this book continues to exhibit Baldwin's mastery of the essay form.
Baldwin's great strength was and is a knack for showing the travails of the black citizen as only a specific instance of the travails of all human beings:".
the world is not interested in anyone's identity." (from "The Black Boy Looks at the White Boy")It has often been observed that a common trouble is the surest way to the reconciliation of antagonisms.
Baldwin notes that we must take this just a step further to realize that we're all in essentially the same trouble.
Baldwin provides keen insight into his thinking as a writer and a black man of his day with a unique
Lots of reviews on here saying "how does Baldwin remain so relevant?" Well, it's because he knows (and tries to explain in many of these essays) that the impact of what it means to be a POC in North America is a nearly impossible thing to overcome.
How movements for change will eat itself with talks of method instead of dealing with the powers at hand.
And how a POC can lose their identity or connections to who they are within the ghettos/cities.
But more than likely it's because nothing has truly changed since this was first published
Deeply eloquent.
I love his long phrases and elegantly arranged sentences.
I don't know if I'm weird but each thought, description, what-have-you goes down like buttah.
I can definitely recommend this to everybody.
His views are reasoned (as someone remarked here) and they have this lovely restrained quality, even as they are dealing with extremely troublesome, controversial matters.
His eye ran sharp and deep.
And morally he is without compromise.
But at the same time, you know he's a man who has been up and down the streets and seen some things.
No one ever wrote more clearly or more truthfully about America than James Baldwin did; this collection of essays-- a sequel of sorts to 'Notes of a Native Son'-- bears witness to that, and finds Baldwin coming to terms with this nation's past, present, and future in a resonantly moral voice. Included are some reflections on his return from European exile, his visit to the American south, his time spent in the company of Norman Mailer and Richard Wright, and more. Reading James Baldwin is completely paradigm-shifting, and this slim volume is-- like basically everything he wrote-- essential.
amazingly concise & insightful, about race, about writing & art, about Wright & Faulkner & Mailer, about what it means to be an american. he lets nobody off the hook, himself included. the only thing i was really puzzled by was an essay on Andre Gide where it seems like Baldwin is bashing Gide from deep inside the closet. i found this interesting essay on line that suggests that this is a pose to lure the reader in (if i'm reading right):http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi...
