https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17683.Dead_Beat
"Polka will never die!"
He's been charged by one of the most dangerous vampires in the world, Mavra of the Black Court, to find the missing volume of a series written by one of the most notorious necromancers in human history.
In the previous book, Murphy helped Harry take out a nest of Black Court vampires, killing several humans who had been enthralled to the vamps.
Should Harry not do what Mavra wants, the pictures would be released, and the one things that Murphy truly loves would be gone.The point of this book, broadly, is Harry discovering that past actions still have present consequences, and that the choices he has to make are not always good ones.
Harry Dresden fans, do you know you can get special Dresden character tea blends like this Butters one??
Just food, er, drink for thought.Wonder what he tastes like.
Corpses??
I'm 100% in love with the audiobooks for this series.
James Marsters gets better and better with each book, and I'm addicted to listening to him narrate.
His character vocal differentiation is improving with each story, and his inflections are spot on.
He is amazing, really amazing.
It wasn't my favorite of the series thus far, but I had an excellent time listening.
Bring on more Harry Dresden and more polka, please!
The one where it really starts to get good. Has several priceless scenes, especially in the last third, that had me re-reading this book. Best dinosaur scene ever.
It was like Mavra herself..." pg 33, ebook.Harry is still dealing with his disabled hand, which he burnt the heck out of in the last book.
It didn't matter that my hand was screaming with pain." pg 65, ebook.Also, some of Harry's previous decisions about vampires and the Wizard Counsel have some serious consequences.
But, anybody who's been reading this series for awhile, knew that that was only a matter of time.And there's the small matter of a certain silver coin that Harry picked up a few books ago and buried under the concrete in his lab.
This had one of the most creative and fun uses of magic I've ever seen without creating an entirely original magic system! Also some serious character development and story progression!! You rock, Jim Butcher!
This seventh book in the Dresden Files series, took me on a roller coaster ride tread by many of the fans, yet managed to make the experience nearly pristine and virginal.
I mean, by that, his tendency to put Dresden in a dead end and have him rescued by a providential arrival - here, once, by a Deus Ex Mafia.
The one vampire in the book, Thomas, is there, is interesting, but does not help much.
I think the reveals, which are different and self sufficient (not depending on previous ones), enhance the craftsmanship of the author, who, in retrospect, I'm seeing growing alongside his main character.
“Son. Everyone dies alone.
It's a door.
But it doesn't mean you've got to be alone before you go through the door.
And believe me, you aren't alone on the other side.” About this book, it's like any other book of Dresden Files just nastier.
Dresden never fails to entertain me.
He also never fails to take me on a ride in the train of excitements.
But apart from everything I have taken a serious liking for this guy and it really pains me to see him fighting while he is hurt and all of his limbs are not fully functional.
Best Dresden book so far!
rex Sue and all the mayhem that she causes!Harry, like any good noir detective, is a bit soft-headed when it comes to a dame.
This gets him in trouble in every book and this one is no exception.
His wry sense of humour helps him deal with the situations that his instinctive responses get him embroiled in.At least in this installment, Harry gets to know members of the White Council better (and vice versa), finds out that he has fans among the younger wizards, and gets to communicate with an important person from his past.
He also becomes a personal coach for a new friend, Butters.
Polka will never die!#ilovebutters
The chaotic events in his life may have Harry Dresden feeling Dead Beat...but his books have never been more energized!As an accountant, when I have a bad day at work, it often means I spent hours poring through various mind-numbingly dull spreadsheets trying to rectify a discrepancy.
If you read any of the previous six books in the Harry Dresden series, you already know that you can count on plenty of excitement and humor, but this time around it's become apparent that Jim Butcher is truly growing as a writer.

Also the one where the series really solidly shifts into higher gear, in my opinion.8/25/11: I noticed something about this character last night that I think speaks well of Butcher as a writer: he's managed to write a somewhat sexist character but not sexist books.
It's a fine line, but it's there, and instead of being insulting, it just makes the character deeper.As an example, I read a review here complaining about how the author always comments on women's boobs.
I could imagine being friends with him in real life and making fun of him for being a chivalrous ass sometimes, but still liking him.And like I said at the beginning, I think this speaks well of the author.
3.5 starsIt took me over two months to get this from the library; some punk had it and returned it over a month late.“In the action business, when you don’t want to say you ran like a mouse, you call it ‘taking cover.’ It’s more heroic.”The book begins on my birthday (cool, eh?) and ends on Halloween night: Harry has three days to prevent competing necromancers from using an obscure book to summon immense power that would kill thousands in the process, etc.With necromancers comes … … zombies!Meanwhile, the coin Harry picked up a couple books back is starting to stir up trouble, and Harry is adjusting to having Thomas as a roommate.
It’s just as well he doesn’t get to do much more than look; he’d be insufferable then.James Marsters has gotten so good at narrating the books!
No, THIS books is the best installment yet.
No, THIS books is the best installment yet.
I just adore how the stakes keep getting higher, and how our dear wizard Harry is always overcome with hurdles that even I am biting my nails in suspense, unsure if he'll even come out of it in one piece.
There's so much to love about it - from the characters to the little story arcs in every installment, and to the even bigger story that's happening behind the scenes if you take a look at all of the books' stories as a whole.
Murphy is out of town and an old vamp from the past has pictures that could not only get Murphy thrown off the force, but possibly thrown in jail.
Dresden has no choice but to make a deal with this vamp to get the pictures and negatives back.
Needless to say we get zombies, ghosts, spectres, the mob, necromancers, wardens, a dinosaur, and of course Polka!
Polka will never die!
I loved this excursion out with Dresden.
We met some new characters, which will probably be sticking around for awhile.
We also get to learn a bit more about well known characters.
Mavra, a vampire from Black Court (think Dracula on steroids) who happened to be one of the most powerful Dresden's enemies made an offer to the only official wizard which cannot be refused: find the last book of the most powerful and crazy necromancer in the history of humanity, or Lt. Murphy would be exposed as a killer (with fabricated evidence).
Well, what complicates matter is the fact that the surviving apprentices of the mentioned necromancer are after the book as well.
Thus the plan is: get the book, give it to Mavra, and avoid getting killed by people who would not think twice about destroying anything and everyone who stands in their way.
I have two GR friends who have said that this series gets better and better with each book.
I believe that to be true because these books really do get better, probably because I already love the characters.
Harry is a great character.
He is constantly evolving and I like that I'm learning something new about him with each new book.
The new characters are also just as fascinating, as well as the returning ones.
I like all the fun twists that keep the story moving, often in unexpected ways.
Harry and Butters, the medical examiner who has been helping him in his recovery, end up running around Chicago averting crises and worming out secrets, trying to prevent all these dang necromancers from killing everybody.Dead Beat is just a perfect storm of Harry dealing with consequences, making new allies, doing cool shit, and facing really awesome, scary but still super interesting bad guys, a final battle that is actually scary but at the same time AWESOME (and I don’t even normally like battle scenes at all), and stuff that actually changes for Harry.
the Necromancers really grabbed me, and I LOVED Butters (and Thomas) as Harry's sidekicks.
This was without a doubt my favorite of the Dresden files.
It had everything - especially zombies, and lots and lots of them!This book made me really think about what I like about the Dresden files.
The author develops multiple story lines and then weaves them together plausibly - at least as plausible as zombies in present day Chicago.
The quest for the book of Kemmlar places Harry in a very bad position.
It's about at that point that the Wardens show up.The main knock on the story is that Harry is almost too good.
I loved the book.Downgraded to four stars after some reflection.
3.5/5 stars.  (rounded down for GR)Is this a filler book? It feels like a filler book. The previous 2 books were terrific, this one didn't do much for me. However it still had great moments and the ending was quite good. Hoping it picks back up in the next book.My WEBSITEMy INSTAGRAMMy WORDPRESS BLOG
Funny thing about something that happened later in the book - (view spoiler)[ It was a great addition to have Harry riding a zombie dinosaur (Sue) and that was way better than I ever imagined it could be.
After finishing the book, I noticed my son had brought home a book from school, "A Dinosaur Named Sue." That was awesome and some good bonding time talking about my silly fiction book.
My son's excited to read about zombie dinosaur's eating zombies when he gets old enough!
So happy I decided to stick with the series, because each book has proven better than the last. Polka will never die!
I loved how both Butters and Thomas came into their own much more in this book than they had previously.
Butters goes from being the rational yet terrified little Polka obsessed medical examiner to a hero (ish).
Thomas' relationship with his brother is also developed far more and makes for interesting reading.But let's be honest - we're all reading it for the ghosts, zombies, magic, fist fights and Dresden himself.
Not sure what I can say without spoilers, but if you like fantasy, like fiction, and appreciate solid character development and depth spiced with witty and stupid and reference humor, this book, and the series, is for you.
The thing I'm really loving about this series is how Butcher manages to produce something new with each successive book while at the same time adding these threads of lore and story that carry over with each new book.
He also has Butters, whose repertoire of undead combating abilities mostly consists of melting away into the background in a quivering mess(unlike Mouse, Butters is aptly named), to his more formidable polka playing abilities - Hey, don't knock it till you've tried it - Polka will never die.4 stars
Executive Summary: One of my favorite books in the series. It might possibly have the most memorable sequence of all 14 books thus far.Audio book: James Marsters continues to be excellent as the reader for the audio book. Of particular note, I really enjoy his voices for Butters and Ramirez. Full Review So what a long way we've come. Wizards, Werewolves, Vampires, Fae. What's left? Why Zombies of course..One of Harry's enemies is back in town and blackmailing him to find something called the Wor
It might possibly have the most memorable sequence of all 14 books thus far.Audio book: James Marsters continues to be excellent as the reader for the audio book.
Just one of the most awesome things in the entire series!Mr. Butcher does an excellent job of writing an entertaining stand alone story, while managing to develop important plot points for the overall story he's telling with the series so far.We are yet again introduced to some important new characters.
And while this book lacks the big revelations of the last book, it makes up for it with an extra dose of fun, as well as adding some layers of complexity to the series.Books like this are why it's one of my favorite series.
4.5Its the best book in the series so far (and that extra half star is for Butters and Sue)!!With Halloween just days away, Harry finds himself blackmailed by Marva into finding “Word of Kemmler”.
But Harry even doesn’t know what “Word of Kemmler” is and what it can do or where to find it.
If thats not enough three more wizards/necromancers who are powerful than Harry wants “Word of Kemmler” for themselves.
We’ve seen Harry tackling wizards, werewolves, ghosts, vampires and fallen angels; now we see him fighting zombies.
With every book each Harry is growing more mature and powerful.
So, this audiobook was pretty epic. End review. No, but seriously there's Necromancers, a zombie t-rex, Harry gets a wizardly promotion, there's a weird love triangle going on, although I don't think anyone is actually getting any, Bob gets kidnapped, and then there's the whole Lasciel thing. I loved this installment to bits; there was action to the max, tons of future possibilities open up for this series, and I bow down to James Marsters' grasp of Dresden's character. Butters made for an awesome sidekick, and Mouse was something else too. Highly recommended! 4.5 Stars
I loved this book.
It has everything I love and lacks exactly the thing I dislike in this series (Murphy and her self-righteous attitude).
I still remember how she ruined the second book for me.
Since the starting point is a blackmail connected to Murphy I expected her to play a greater role here.
Murphy lovers will be disappointed to find that she appears only in two scenes, one in the beginning and the other in the end.
As for the the rest of the book, it is perfect.
The antagonists are strong, the mystery, the plot and its pace are perfect.
POLKA WILL NEVER DIE!!!!!I love this series.
