https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826281.Sam_and_the_Firefly
4.5 starsAs many know, there are a lot of English children's books that I've missed out on.
I read about it (actually, only saw the cover) in the interview David gave on Mischenko's blog: https://readrantrockandroll.com/2017/...The owl on the cover was the selling point for me, but I must say that the story in general is very sweet.
Now, it should be pointed out that this book is for really little children that are just learning to read themselves.
He eventually manages but Gus the firefly is up to no good and thus the trouble starts.Great is that this story is sweet and educational at the same time.
Every year that I went to my grandparents's house as a child, I would read this story before bed. I should get it from the library and share it with my nephew. I think the niece is already to old for it. I loved this little story. It reminds me of my childhood and feeling safe in the family homestead. The book was magical back then. I loved fireflies too. In my mind this book is linked to summer.
The firefly takes his new powers and begins making words in the sky that mess with people's lives--like writing "Go" and "Stop" at the wrong times and making cars crash at intersections!!!
And, since it was originally published in the mid-1950s, I just felt all happy and nostalgic (even though I wasn't born in the '50s!) holding the book in my hands and thinking of how many young readers, over the years, read this story in their living rooms and how, despite the changing fashions, home decorating schemes, and world events, a story about a cute little owl and his firefly friend continues to touch and inspire readers after all these years.

Eastman, P.D. Sam and the Firefly. New York: Random House Books for Young Readers, 1958.Genre - Fiction - Animals This book is about an owl who wakes up at night and has no one to play with. The owl then sees a bunch of glowing lights and comes to find his new friend Gus the firefly. The Owl has a great idea to spell out their names in the sky using Gus's tail. After they spell out their first few words Gus finds out how much fun it is to spell words and begins to cause mischief by telling cars
The owl then sees a bunch of glowing lights and comes to find his new friend Gus the firefly.
After they spell out their first few words Gus finds out how much fun it is to spell words and begins to cause mischief by telling cars at an intersection to go when they shouldn’t, stop when they shouldn't and go different directions than they shouldn’t causing a crash.
Sam sees this and begs Gus to stop because it isn't nice.
I personally used to pretend the firefly was spelling out other words.
I also believe that the illustrations are closer to a realistic perspective (save for the owl and the firefly) which may cause a younger reader to be more interested in the book.
It takes two to have fun.  ^_^Its a different & new story for me :)
The book was written in 1958 as an easy reader.
The story line was perfectly in-line with my 5-year-old son's interests.
I thought it was wonderful that the firefly discovered a helpful outlet for his own talent of sky-writing rather than using it to harm others - just the message I would like my son to learn with his own fun-loving, well-intentioned, but not always kindly executed tricks.
The story is also a great introduction to the idea of the power of words as the firefly Gus uses his special talent of sky-writing to make things happen, first bad than good.
This book is about an owl named Sam who meets a firefly named Gus. Now Gus isn’t just a firefly; he is a firefly who has a special talent of writing words with his light.
Gus gets into some trouble when he starts to trick everyone with his words and begins making chaos in the nightlife.
Gus gets trapped in a jar and Sam helps him escape and helps Gus realize he is wrong for the things he is doing.
Gus does something to help right his wrongs.
In the end, Gus begins using his talent for good rather than just for fun.
This was one of those books I adored as a child. I read it my kiddos when they were quite young, it must have been lost in the divorce. We haven't read it for a while, but it's a great read, especially for youngsters. Very cute and enjoyable.
The perfect beginning reader: my son knew many of the words in this book from his "sight words" at preschool, and he could sound out some others. BUT, more importantly, it is a great story, interesting and funny, and he cared about what happens.
I loved this book when I was a kid!
The flip side of the theme of freedom of speech is the theme of listening to others, and this is a topic that Sam and the Firefly addresses in a more indirect way.
In the story, the people in the town seem to blindly follow whatever Gus writes in the sky.
Should the people have listened to Gus’ words?
When should you listen to what others say?
Questions like these should prompt the children to think about whether the people in the story were right or wrong to listen to Gus and when it is appropriate to do what other people tell you to do.
This book is not one of Eastman's better efforts at all. Cute though the characters may be there are some disturbing aspects to this book that I would not share with a child. Let's be honest, it's highly unlikely that a firefly could ever cause a car accident or a plane crash, but there is nothing humorous or cute about either subject. Had I been the publisher I would have instructed Eastman to rewrite this one! The one star is for the owl! The firefly gets nothing - nasty little bugger!
Sam (owl) teaches Gus (firefly) a neat trick, but Gus cannot resist creating mayhem with his new found power. When Gus's hi-jinx land him in hot water, Sam comes to the rescue and a valuable lesson is learned. Use your powers for good, not evil! Nice illustrations and simple sentence structures for the child learning to read.
Read this book when I was small, and wanted to get it for my child. The colours are so very vibrant, and the book is so vivid. It is a tad too long (probably shouldn't begrudge it for a 6 month old's attention span) but overall this book holds up fairly well. Good message to your kids- Don't be a $#!t disturber :)
I was reminded of this book from my childhood recently. It's longer than I remember from almost 50 years ago, and I don't recall all the damage the Gus the Firefly caused. Still he uses his talent for good in the end.
Hands down my favorite book as a kid. Whenever I would visit my grandma’s house, I would have to have her read me Sam and the Firefly. Such a good message and I loved the illustrations.
The green, yellow, black, and white colors make an interesting combination in the illustrations.
11/2/17 Read with Naomi.
Now that I am teaching again, I am revisiting some of my childhood literature. I had completely forgotten about this one. I have numerous P.D. Eastman favorites.
I had legitimate doubts that Gus was going to make the save the car broken down on the railroad tracks and, by extension, everyone on the train.
One of the most underrated, but amazing children's books of all time. I enjoyed this book immensely when I was young and now my daughter enjoys having it read to her today.
Somehow I missed this one as a kid and it is super cute. Makes a great easy reader because of the sight words. A little preachy at times, to be sure, but great illustrations and cute concept.
One of our all-time favorites
I used to love reading this book as a child; it was one of my favorites. Recently, I bought for a friend's newborn son. Hopefully he'll enjoy it as much as I did.
This was a long book and I read it by myself. I liked the part where gus stopped the train with his words
Sam the owl and Gus the firefly find an illuminating way to amuse themselves on a dark night.
But will they be able to fix the problems Gus's out-of-control antics cause?I was SO sleepy when we read this, but I remember wondering why it wasn't more familiar to me.
It's one of those books that's been around forever and everyone just kind of knows, isn't it?
Anyway, it was fun and funny and had a pretty good little build to the story, and it's a different take on a nighttime setting.
I'd gladly read it again when I'm a little more alert.
Disturbing content. I vaguely remember this story from when I was a kid. My kids love it, and the simple words are easy enough for my six year old to read. Five stars for the phrase, "Yow wow!"
D. Eastman is a picture book, most likely intended for children ages 4-6.Summary: Sam (an owl) teaches Gus (a firefly) to write words with his light, which Gus then uses to play mean jokes and cause car accidents.
The use of language in the book is very effective and appropriate for the intended audience (children just learning to read), and one of the themes of the book is words.
In the classroom this book could be used to teach students to read new words.
They could also try using flashlights to “write” new words in the air like Gus.
The Power of Language3 August 2013 The text in this book is a little more complicated that the other book that I read but that is probably because the previous book was teaching children prepositions where as this book has a bit of a moral undertone. It seems that by the time children get to this level of reading it is more about teaching morality as opposed to simply teaching a child how to read.  I guess in one aspect the book is teaching us that playing dirty tricks on people is not conducive
The Power of Language3 August 2013	The text in this book is a little more complicated that the other book that I read but that is probably because the previous book was teaching children prepositions where as this book has a bit of a moral undertone.
I guess in one aspect the book is teaching us that playing dirty tricks on people is not conducive to good relationship, and if you keep of doing it then you could quite well land up in trouble.
Sam teaches Gus how to write, and upon learning how to write, he immediately goes away and begins to abuse this power.
