https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/643134.Mary_Poppins_and_Mary_Poppins_Comes_Back
I liked the adventures the children had with Mary Poppins. They were charming and imaginative. However, I had forgotten what a contrary and vain person Mary was.
Mary Poppins, on the other hand, is just a crank: a vain, snippy crank.Jane and Michael are usually very sweet even to their bad-tempered nanny.
For some odd reason they think she's a wonder and the best nanny in the world.
Why they think this is never explained seeing as she is routinely unkind and impatient with them.My favorite characters, besides Jane and Michael, are Bert and Mr. and Mrs. Banks, all of whom appear very rarely in the stories.It seems P.L. Travers had a little problem with character development and creating a unifying plot to hold her little adventures together.
But even if you are Mary Poppins and can do anything, and you don't have love, you are still nothing.
Reread, as I've decided to continue on in the series. My favorite bit is probably "balloons *and* balloons," or maybe King of the Castle, in the second book. I'm still having trouble getting used to how conceited and snappish MP is, how snotty she is to the children. And do remember that the movie is, naturally, Disneyfied.
I had never read any of the Mary Poppins books as a child but have seen the movie too many times to count.
After seeing Saving Mr. Banks I wanted to read the book to see what the differences were etc.
How these children loved her is beyond me.
Yes their adventures were fun but I don't think they excuse her behavior.
She thinks too highly of herself which in the long run I don't think is healthy for the children.
Maybe this behavior is explained in future volumes but I don't think I have the stomach for more.
This review is for Mary Poppins Comes Back.I started this book years ago right after I read Mary Poppins for the first time, but I never finished it.
The chapters are episodic, and a couple of them reminded me of chapters in the first book.
And Mr. Turvy's chapter was very similar to Mr. Wigg in the first book.
So sometimes it felt a bit repetitive.I do think that Travers comes up with very creative ideas and situations!
I own the next two Mary Poppins books, and I do plan on reading them soon.
I think that will help me enjoy these more.
Wonderful stories. But, so different from the movie. I can't really say which I liked better, because they both had good stuff in them that wasn't in the other. These stories are definitely good children's stories that parents should read with their kids. There are several more books in this series and I plan on reading them, as well.
I read this book for the sole purpose of seeing whether or not the author was justified in her dislike of the movie that it was too saccharine.
I, like everyone else, love the movie.
The story of the father and the bank is not in the book, yet I see why the movie stuck it in because there is no overall story to Mary Poppins and so it was not very compelling to read.I wonder if I would have liked this better if I had read it first.
The author may have been accurate in that the movie is very different from the book.
In most cases the book is better than the movie, this is an exception.
The movie is SO MUCH better than the book(s)!
Thank you Walt Disney and thank you Julie Andrews for turning a sour, mean, snobby, self-centered character (Mary Poppins) into a magical presence who cared for and about the children and changed a family's life for the better.
After reading the first two books I have no desire to read any more.
I'm going to watch the movie one more time, and sing along....."Just a spoonful of sugar helps the medicine go down, in the most delightful way!"
After watching the movie for 30 years, it's hard to compete, but this was no contest and the movie is MUCH better! I could see reading it to the kids a chapter at a time at night, but that's about it.
Somebody commented that Disney sure did make Mary Poppins seem nice. That person was right. Mary Poppins is mean in this book. I don't know why the kids are sad at the end when she leaves, even though she has adventures with them.
Almost as good as Alice in Wonderland. :D
My parents read this to me, as a child, got me through many a asthma attack
Знаем какво означава това - Алиса, която бавно пада в заешката дупка, Малкият принц, понесен от птици, Питър Пан лети към страната Никога, Мери Попинз се издига в небето със своя чадър с дръжка глава на папагал.
н. Някъде там сред тези вечни персонажи - дори заведенията и магазинчетата са такива, срещнах Мери Попинз за първи път.
Историите са необичайни, Мери Попинз - най-прочутата детегледачка в литературата, суетна и тросната, не можеш да харесаш веднага.
Но само ако преди това не сте чели "Мери Попинз".
אפשר לראות שהיא רוצה להראות עצמה כאחת מבנות המשפחות הטובות, בעוד שלא אכפת לה באמת מהמנהגים עצמם: "במשפחות הטובות ביותר קובעים יום חופשה אחת לשבועים, ובתנאים כאלה אני מוכנה לעבוד, גברתי" מרי פופינס אומרת לגברת בנק, לאחר שזו אמרה שיינתן לה יום חופשי אחד לשלושה שבעות.
לעומתה, גברת בנק, סמל הסטריאוטיפ של אשת משפחה, משתכנעת בקלות ואין לה רעיונות משלה היא עונה לה "בסדר גמור".בכלל היא גורמת למשפחה להרגיש שהיא מקבלת את העבודה ולא הם מקבלים אותה לעבודה "כאילו עשתה עמנו חסד".עצמאות: מרי פופינס היא אישה עצמאית, היא לא תלויה בשום דבר ולא מחוייבת לאף אחד מלבד לעצמה.
I had never read the books nor had the books read to me.
I have only seen the Disney movie and the movie Saving Mr. Banks.
The movie "Saving Mr. Banks" made me want to read the original stories.
Even as an adult, I enjoyed the books.
I was surprised at how vain Mary is and how short she can be with the children, but you learn how much she truly cares about the children as the stories continue.
I loved the way Travers took ordinary people and things and made extraordinary adventures out of them for the children.
I am looking forward to reading the rest of series.
Reminded me of the Oz books, in a way, in that there's some sort of framing device, but every chapter is really just a short story of some fantastical thing happening, and I really enjoyed that. But I actually didn't like Mary Poppins herself. I know, consider the time and place, but I still thought she was short-tempered and rude. Still, I guess it would be worth putting up with her moods and snits if you got to meet a literal star.
I got through about 100 pages, but I just can’t will myself to continue. This a strange book, and the film and book are quite different. I was expecting the book to be more like the movie, but instead the books is odd and not interesting enough. The children try so hard to get Mary’s approval despite her arrogant and rude attitude towards everyone. A younger audience might enjoy it more, or maybe those who aren’t familiar with the film (but like, how can you not know about the 1960s film??? :p)
I wished I had read this to my kids when they were little. Such a great classic adventure.
On Uncle Albert Wiggs's birthday, contagious laughing gas floats him to the ceiling, with guests for tea Mary, Jane, Michael, twins Barbara, John.
Twist on same points "is it real?" dreams - bad day, relative, bird-baby chat, birthday, nature explained, gone on the wind.
Jane, on her bad day, falls into a china plate where last century boys bowl hoops, and Mary leaves her monogrammed scarf behind while rescuing her charge.
When Jane stares at falling stars and Michael asks for the Moon, the constellation dances around birthday girl Mary.
Here's my summary of every chapter.Jane and/or Michael is being naughty.Mary Poppins bitches them out.They somehow get involved in a mysterious and whimsical Adventure that has seemingly no point and only tangential relation to their earlier naughtiness.They have fun, and all end up in a great mood.
(No lesson learning is apparent.)Jane and Michael try to talk to Mary Poppins about what happened.Mary Poppins get cross and indignant that they would even suggest such a thing, and absolves herself of all connection with such fancies.
And why does she bestow her nanny services upon the Banks, when clearly she is so Very Important?
So many people have written in their reviews that Mary Poppins is so vain and mean that they don't understand how children could love her.
But she had a good heart and she took very good care for them.And what about these recommendations...It's CHILDREN'S book!
:DAnd finally, think about all these wonderful and magical things, the children experienced with Mary Poppins.
Things, they couldn't do with any of their nannies before or after Mary Poppins.
And if you think about all these things, you realize that, even if she wasn't friendly and lovely, she was the best nanny one child can wish for.
The children wrote a not to their father telling him everything they want in a nanny, but he didn't agree with them and threw the letter they wrote to him in the fire.
Next thing they knew, they nanny the children wrote down on the letter is at their door step.
This first part of the story ( book one) is about all of the adventures the children and the nanny ( Mary Poppins) have together.
Ever since Mary Poppins left the first time, things just haven't been the same for the family.
Mary Shepard was the illustrator of the book - and I think they look like someone was drawing for fun during class.
I read this volume of the first two books in the Mary Poppins series after seeing the movie "Saving Mr. Banks" and reading all the newspaper and magazine articles about P.
L. Travers, a writer who was described in a way that conflicted with my mental image of the creator of the story behind the delightful "Mary Poppins" movie from the Disney Studio.
I enjoyed these stories very much and if I were a child, I would've loved reading them even more.
It's easy to see why children have delighted in reading these books for so many years and would most likely rate these stores with 4-5 stars instead of the three I've given.
What story do you want to get in?I want to get in Sleeping Beauty, because this is the most favorite story.I did't finish it yet.
5/1310min.7 word summarytwins, their-personality, mind, west -wind, leaving, never-come back, behavior, Discussion QuestionIn this story, Mary Poppins can fly with wind and her umbrella.
If you can go everywhere you want, where do you want to go?I have many places where I wanna go.
I wanna go to europe, because I wanna see many world heritages.I really like Marry Poppins, because her thinking is so funny and story make me so excited.
I have not seen the movie that many reviewers mention and do not think that Marry is mean, stern maybe mean not necessarily.
She is quite vain though and abides to belief that children should be seen and not heard.
This however is true to that time and was a norm.
Some of my older relations still hold those beliefs.
What captivated me are all those adventures.
Having two little boys if my own I can believe how those kids would have been drawn to her and felt her loss greatly.
Great adventure book!
I dug out my old copy from when I was 9 to get ready for Saving Mr. Banks (which is my favorite film of 2013) and was actually really surprised at how little I remembered from it.
Now I mostly want to rave about Saving Mr. Banks.
It definitely added another level of appreciation for both the book and film Mary Poppins, and I proceeded to reread and rewatch after coming home, and then listened to the musical (which is amazing, too!)So basically I love Mary Poppins in any shape and size, and everybody should see Saving Mr. Banks!
Well I've finished reading the stories. Walt Disney did take liberties in spite of the author's protests. I don't remember Mary's sternness when I read the Gingerbread story as a child. I just remember the finger treats, the money polkadots on the dress and pasting the stars in the sky part of the story. Maybe the golden book version left out Mary's sternness.
It's definitely a bedtime story book. Each chapter is its own adventure, without an overarching story. Mary Poppins is not a kind nanny. I think I much prefer the version Julie Andrews portrayed. There are certainly some fun ideas contained in this book.
Though this book is well written and engaging, the plot is nearly a duplicate of the first book. Different baby, different Poppins relative who has trouble controlling his body, and another visit from the stars, albeit slightly different. A disappointment.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/12946308
