https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53829.Disappointment_with_God
He makes some points so well that although I had considered them before, it was obvious I needed to reconsider.It's hard to write about doubt well.
Despite some of the personal stories he shared at the end, I never could shake the feeling that he was writing from a place of a foreigner to the land of deep doubt.
Without making a comment on his personal life, this book just doesn't convey the feeling of someone who has spent sleepless nights terrified that they might be wrong about this loving God they follow.
I read this many years ago for someone else's benefit. You know, when you saw what they're problem was and bought a book to help them. It didn't really mean anything to me then. Of course, I was only 19 years old. Now at 42, I find myself disappointed. Actually, disappointed is too gracious of a word. Jaded, cynical at times. Sad, tired mostly. Waiting for this period of my life to be done and for things to return to normal with God. This book, I hope, was a small step in that direction.
http://www.mediafire.com/download/zlc...
ضم الكتاب الكثير من التساؤلاتإلا أنه قدم القليل من الأجوبة المقنعةانتظرت أجوبة بنفس قوة الأسئلة ، ولكن للأسف الحجج التي قدمها المؤلف لم تكن بنفس القوةويمكن للكثيرين أن يردوا عليها بحجج أقوي الصور الإنسانية التي قدمت في الكتاب صور واقعية تحدث بالفعل حولناوالتساؤلات نراها في العيون وفوق الشفاه في أوقات نادرةإلا أن الإجابات التي قدمها المؤلف لا تكفي للرد بحزم وإقناع كاففضلاً عن أن المؤلف في النهاية قد أوضح أن الإيمان سينبع من الداخل مهما قدم من إجابات عقليةوعنده حق في ذلكفكل الإجابات الذكية والمقنعة لن تتجاوز قلباً موصوداً أمام الإيمانالقلب هنا صوته أعلي
مش عادة بكتب review على اي حاجة بقراها بس الكتاب ده كنت بفكر اني لازم اكتب عنه وانا لسه بقراهالكتاب بيناقش مشكلة الشر والالم اللي لخصها فيليپ يانسي في ٣ أسئلة..هل الله ظالم؟ هل هو صامت؟ أهو مختبيء؟..
لو بتدور على اجابات مريحة للأسئلة دي ماتقدش انك هتلاقيها في الكتاب دهالكتاب مش بيجاوب على الاسئلة دي بالطريقة اللي انت عايزها وهتريحك بالعكس ده بيأكد ان الله ساعات كتير بيبقى صامت وان العالم اه ظالم..
لكن اللي الا حد ما بيعزي ويصبر ان في الله مصلوب بيحس بالألم اللي بنعدي بيه وفيه قيامة حتى لو المشهد كله موتالكتاب ده زي حضن لواحد متألم لكن مافهوش حلول مريحة سريعة..اه نسيت اقول اني في النص دمعت كذا مرة وانا بقراه
Instead of helping a friend out of a spiritual depression, Mr. Yancy slapped him down and decided he just did not have enough faith.There was no compassion in the book for the suffering Christian.
It is also my opinion that Mr. Yancy’s answers in this book are no better than the callous conversations the friends of Job had for his sufferings.Mr. Yancy’s questions in the book were:1.
Is God hidden?My questions for Mr. Yancy are:1.
لم يجيب علي شئ، ولم يطرح ما لم يطرح من قبل بل كرر الاسئلة المعروفة التي فلسفيا يصعب الاجابة عليها ولاهوتيا يستحيل اجابتها، حقيقة اتعجب لماذا استخدم الكاتب كل تلك الصفحات في قصص لا فائدة منها سوي اثبات حب الله وحزنه وجرحه، رغم ان هذا ليس موضوع الكتاب او عنوانه او حتي عناوين فصوله، ان كان يريد ان يكتب عن تلك المواضيع فلا مانع بالطبع، ولكن ماالهدف من اقحام قصة الاسئلة غير المجاب عنها والوعد باجابتها وكأنها الموضوع الاساسي عبر صفحات الكتاب ؟ اتوقع ان الكاتب فشل في الاجابة فما كان منه الا أن ملأ صفحات الكتاب ببضاعة لاهوتية مستهلة عن حب الله وحزنه دون اي اضافة فكرية او تأملية في الموضوع الأساسي ...

I truly appreciate the approach Yancey took to wrestling with this disappointment with God. He takes the reader through the history of mankind, from the OT when God was manifesting Himself day and night, to when Christ came in the flesh, to the age of the Holy Spirit.
Yancey, taking his readers through the book of Job and various Biblical accounts, anchors our faith, even in the midst of crippling disappointments and sufferings, in the knowledge of the true character of our loving and patient God. Each chapter of this book covered a different layer to our experiences of disappointment.
It deals with the topic of how sometimes (or most times) we feel like God isn't near us.
We go through tough times and wonder where God is in all of that, but really, another way to view it is where are we in all of this?
Many people want to see God, to have miracles happen all the time, to have every prayer answered.
It's because back in the day, when he did those things with the Israelites, they turned away from Him. It's like a damned if you do, damned if you don't scenario.
A really interesting way of thinking about things, though.
A difficult topic tackled with empathy and skill19 November 2014 The topic of 'if God is good and all powerful then why does he allow suffering' is a difficult topic at best and when you need to tackle it emphatically it becomes almost impossible. Actually, anything to do with Christianity, where you are trying to balance the esoteric truth of the faith with people's feelings is, once again, a very difficult task. Mind you, if you want to write a Christian book that explains Christianity without
Basically, the book of Exodus begins with the Israelites enslaved in Egypt, and then God comes along.
But, as Yancey points out here, and in other parts of the bible, just because God is visible, is audible, and performs great and powerful feats of magic (if you want to call it magic) does not mean that we will all bow down and worship him and dedicate our lives to him.
This--everybody who has ever even tangentially been connected to Christianity should read this.
He puts in Scripture and expects you to connect his endnotes.
And he's certainly not shy about his own background and influences, so if you're offended by authors like C.S. Lewis and the idea that God is truly omnipotent, you're just going to get frustrated with this.But it's a great read and my neck hurt from nodding so much; it resonated strongly, clearly, and I'm going to go buy my own copy so I don't steal this one from the friend who very kindly loaned this to me.
I read this book (my first by this author) after a friend had questions about it.
A lot of the discussion centers around the book of Job, with many quotations from other authors such as C.S. Lewis.
While no one book can solve these problems, reading this one will cause you to think, and may at least give you more options to consider.
Note however, that for those who consider themselves weak in the faith, this book may do more harm than good.
Is God unfair?
Silent?
Hidden?Where is God when you need Him?I know every Christian has fought this battle when things go wrong and evil seems to reign in the form of disasters beyond our means, but as I was reading this book- Phillip took me through the Bible and shed light on God, people and His hope and dreams for us as His children.I did get to understand better- and have a new perspective on the Bible and the stories told in there, and this has prompted me to read the Bible again, by going through each story and taking in details that I was oblivious of.It's a good book, one that you can read when it seems that God has let you down, or a friend.
كتاب جميل عبارة عن قسمين القسم الاول منه لا يستحق اكثر من 3 نجوم او اقل فهو مجرد سرد عادى لاحداث وته
Philip Yancey is a great writer. As the title reveals this book tackles questions many Christians are not comfortable with, for the most part because there are no simple answers to them. Disappointment with God tackles the problem of pain in a powerful way. It looks frankly at the ways in which our relationship with God is different from human relationships. It asks questions like "Why do bad things happen to good people?".I take away much from this book and hope you will pick it up and give it a read. It's more than worth the money and time spent.
you may become disappointed with God. There have been times when I have cried out, prayed for years, begged God to help and these all seem to have fallen on deaf ears.
Basically it comes down to LIFE SUCKS, we live in a fallen world but we have God in us and we can help each other.
Allow God to use us for good.
I have to say I have been looking for answers and this did not really give me one, but I guess that's because there may be no answer.
Uno de los mejores libros que he leído en un buen tiempo.
Aclaró preguntas existenciales que hacían de mi vida con Dios un poco más distante.
La forma en que da respuesta a preguntas como "¿Es Dios injusto?, ¿Está Dios callado?
y ¿Está Dios escondido?" es maravillosa.
Libro 100% recomendado a los Cristianos que luchan con su fe y están desilusionados con Dios por que no se ha presentado en momentos de angustia o porque no ha contestado una oración en tiempos de necesidad.
También recomendado a no creyentes, que no creen exactamente por las causas antes mencionadas.
Decent book. I think that Yancey's greater works such as "Where is God When it Hurts?" and "The Jesus I Never Knew" cover these same types of questions though. I appreciate his honesty and his willingness to dive into these topics though. I liked it overall and I would even go as far as to recommend it.
One of my favorite authors. He is honest.
Brings up the big questions...but frankly, anytime this is written about, I feel it gets all preachy. I think the only way these get answered is when a person has the courage to bring these questions to God and allow him to answer. Not easy. But, I guess at least he raised he questions here.
I can't say that I feel better after having read this book or that my problems have been solved, but, from an apologetics perspective, I now have a lot more to think about and can draw on a lot of his points as I discuss trials and tribulations with my peers.
In the end, it always comes down to a personal choice to trust God or to push him away.
I don't want to give any more away, but as with all of his books, it's very insightful, more easy to read than some Christan writers out there, and has a very conversational and humble tone.
There was a time in my life when I felt that it's not OK to feel disappointed with God, especially after hearing that other people around me say "have more faith" or "pray harder" or "stop complaining" or things happen because I'm not good enough, not Christian enough, not praying hard enough, not having a bigger faith, got giving my best to God. All these while I remain sceptical about how people around me define faith and prayer, as if those who are broken and disappointed have so little faith.I love how the author of this book directs every main point to a Bible passage and cites some works of other authors that have written about the same issue.
As another author, Ken Gire, once said in another book concerning suffering & disappointments, " If we must have all our questions answered before we can go forward in our relationship with God, then there will come a day when we won't go forward".
The topic of faith is a hard one to swallow for some who struggle with believing in a present, active, all-knowing, all-loving God & the topic of suffering is a topic often avoided by those who want to believe in a present, active, all-knowing, all-loving God. I think the author did a good job in trying to identify what the questions really are.
Well, what is there to say other than while dealing with deeply theological issues, Yancey's pertinent style refuses to allow this to be a purely intellectual matter.
Even i as a person who always wants to know "why" and have a firm solid understanding find that the mystery, and the way he deals with it here are enough of an answer to the why, for he shows the logic behind it.
Disappointment with God isn't just another cliche bringing book of one liners, but deeply biblical, emotional and logical.
Is God hidden?
The book is essentially divided into two parts, the first taking a look at Old Testament history from God's point of view, and the second part engaging the book of Job and the problem of pain from humanity's point of view.
(Of course, the questions he's asking are very, very difficult.) In any event, although this book was a good, thoughtful read, if someone was interested in the topic, I'd recommend instead Yancey's more recent book on Prayer, which tackled many of the same issues in what I think is a more effective manner.
Can you trust God with unanswered prayers?If you've ever found yourself truly asking if you can really trust God after sincere prayers have gone unanswered, then this book is worth a slow read.
Yancey effectively articulates questions that we ask in times of desperation where our theology no longer fits and instead constructs a new theology or rather introduces the reader to a God who is bigger than that and yet still loves us.
I took my time with this book, journalling often to digest the thoughts that I'm sure will hold me the next time I find myself asking questions that don't have answers.

Good books are the ones that change your thinking , even if a little bit and hopefully for the long run.
This gets to the source of what makes us disappointed with God, seeing god as unfair, hidden or silent.
It then goes through bible stories or the evolution of God to answer.
For me this got rid of those frequently misused quotes or ideas of God , that can lead to more disappointment due to false expectations.
Although explanations can be little long winded , this book provides a better understanding of what faith is and what God really wants from us .
I read this book as an assignment for my 'Wisdom Literature Class.' The book was to aid us in the reading of Job, and shed light on the topic of faith, suffering, disappointment and frustrations with God. Philip Yancey did a thorough research job for this book's sensitive topic. This book did challenge me at times, but overall I was blessed to not have to read this book because I was personally disappointed with God. I have already walked that journey and am grateful to now be on the other side.
