https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61970.Crystal_Line
All their decisions are right, and if they are ill-tempered (like Killashandra) or even do harm to others (like Piemur, who steals a valuable fire-lizard egg from a Bad Character) they never get called on it.
When we read a feel-good book we do it to identify with the main character and enjoy the ride, and this ride includes identifying with the main character in the belief that we are special and anyone who finds fault with us is Bad. Then we come back to the real world...
Consider: the book begins with Killa and Lars sailing on Ballybran, because they've lost their sled and didn't have the credit for a real holiday off planet.
The opening thoughts from Killa are about how well she knows Lars and how automatic her responses are to him from long habit, more than anything else, and ALSO about how she can't wait to forget about how they lost the sled, which she finds to be a personally embarrassing.
I see this book and the last two getting a lot of flack for Killa being "too melodramtic." I don't disagree that she is dramtic, but it makes her character interesting, in the same way Blanche from "Streetcar Named Desire" or Scarlett from "Gone with the Wind" are interesting.
Killa had to be a vibrant, passionate character or else the loss of her personality over the last century, the loss of her memories and her mind, wouldn't be such a tragedy.
She is a strong, independent, passionate, dramatic, sometimes silly, talented woman, who makes us feel for her losses even more than she becomes capable of feeling.
I read this immediately after finishing the previous two in the series, over a couple of days during a particularly emotional few weeks - I can't really give a proper review of it because I'm not particularly objective as a result, but it struck a chord, I completely lost myself in it, and once I finished it, I cried and cried and cried. Wonderful :)
My pet peeve with book covers is when the cover doesn't match the story, like this cover. Over and over again we're told about Killashandra's dark hair so who the hell is this on the cover!?I really enjoyed this book. I like how Lars and Killashandra have risen above their misunderstandings and mostly her memory loss.
It was a nice surprise to learn that there was a third Crystal Singer book. I think I liked the first two better, but it was good to read more about Killa and Lars even if the plot was a bit drawn out.
There’s a brief side story regarding a new kind of substance found on a planet people have just started to explore, and while it comes full circle in the end, it didn’t add very much to the story overall.I wish this story could have taken place in the middle book, because what this series has are two great books at the beginning and a mediocre book at the end that definitely wraps up loose ends and resolves the story overall, but it was much less interesting than the others because it was a purely internal conflict for Killashandra; it would have been much more interesting to have that breakthrough earlier in the series and then have something thrilling and exciting to end it with, but that’s just me.Overall, it’s a fine ending.
Having read several of the reviews of this book I read it expecting Killa to be a total bitch and treat her partner horribly unfairly.
I guess that says a lot about expectations of a woman's behaviour as compliant and sweet.
Killa is grumpy, she's lost or is losing her memories, she's insecure and her lover's memory is a constant reminder of the damage she is suffering.
We see Killa struggle and feel betrayed, lose her way, try and fail to regain her youth and then almost kill herself.
Not a profound book, but there's more depth here than in the other two.
Crystal Line is definitely the least of the Crystal Singer trilogy, as our heroine Killashandra has been alive for centuries and her long history of singing crystal has reduced her memory to so much mush.
She spends a good half of the book in a brain-rotted tantrum, refusing to accept the death of the leader of her guild and the fact that her lover has risen to that position since then.
Eventually she does get it through her scattered brains that she needs to remember how to remember, and the story ends off on a positive note.
Superior storytellingTruly greatest climax to a superior trilogy.New plot twists that create several storylines. A page Turner you will not want to put down.
*snort* *blub* *wibble*Review to come - thanks Anne for doing a Hobb and steam-rollering over my heart a few times!!
i couldn't just leave the series un-re-finished!
I liked this better than the second book, which was forgettable. True, it ventures off the beaten path with meeting a strange sentient crystal planet, but I for one like how she developed the protagonist along the typical personality of the crystal singers which Killashandra meets in the first book. Killa may be determined to excel, but she isn't immune to the undesirable side effects of singing. There's only so much you can write about cutting crystal, and so I liked this foray off the main planet Ballybran.The first book is still the best though :)
I always hate reaching the end of a good series with fun characters, and this was no exception.
In this book, Killashandra has become almost a legend on and off the crystal singers' planet.
She's been cutting crystal with her partner Lars Dahl for longer than she can remember, literally.
Something about the crystal or the planet makes the singers memory bad.
So bad that they have trouble remembering their crystal cutting claims.
Killa gets mad at Lars and takes off into the mountains to cut crystal by herself.
The story seems to have a lot of tangents but McCaffrey ties them all together nicely.
I liked it a lot.
Baldwin in a Space Age formatI have lived many books by this author, especially as a teen or twenty something.
The first of the Dragon books and especially the Dragon Singer ones are really fun.
I love feeling like I'm in the middle of the location of culture.
The author's ability to create a novel believable culture is phenomenal.
I did notice in reading this series over in my forties i got bored easily and sometimes would cringe at the sex here, there, and anywhere (kind of like green eggs and ham), and since when does a woman not know how to take care of her needs alone?
So, with a It of page skipping, still a worthwhile read if you love the genre.
Much like the main character, Killa, I had no real idea of HOW MUCH TIME HAD PASSED until she got her memories back.
And I feel kind of annoyed that we didn't spend more time with the crystaline entity.
I'd love to be there when they finally figure out how to communicate with it.
But we spend a hell of a long time off on some other planet, with Killa sleeping with all the men and finally figuring out that she misses Lars.Anyway, there's a few complaints, but I did enjoy this one.3 out of 5 stars.
An old favouriteI can't actually remember how many times I've read this series and specifically this book, but I still love it as much as the first time. I love both Killa and Lars, their interplay and relationship is something special. I still think it's clever the way so many worlds of Anne's imagination fit together and I adored the use of the Brain and Brawn ship in this book.INot sure I will ever get tired of re-reading them, so I shall revisit Ballybran again in a few years!
This book was adequate. However, I expect more from McCaffrey than adequate. The climax was unrealistic as well as rushed. It can be read as a stand alone. I had just finished the first one and didn't have the second and still had no particular problem following the story. I suspect the covers have been updated from my editions. Neither are good, but the first one, Crystal Singer, is awful. I just checked and likely both are first editions, so I suppose I'll donate them to my local library book sale rather than dump them into recycling.
The last volume of the series finished. I loved to immerse myself in the history of the crystal singers who cut the criqtal to earn a living and earn enough credits to leave the league the time it takes them to recharge. In this third and final volume we find Killashandra and Lars who try to determine what produces memory losses every time a singer size crystal. Looking forward to reading another series from this author.
I have mixed feelings. I remember enjoying the first two books in this series, though it's been a while since I read them. This one was... well, it's by Anne McCaffrey, of course it was beautifully written, even if I do think she overused exclamation points. It seemed to ramble a bit, winding it's course with no real plot or direction. After the fact, I *think* I see what moral of the story is. Maybe?
The finale to this series was an absolute roller coaster of emotions. I more than enjoyed this, I devoured it. It's wonderfully written and a stunning read. The narrative line isn't as in depth as the previous novels but the depth of characterisation and emotion held within it more than makes up for this. The narrative is almost made up of three or four distinct plots.
Anne McCaffrey was the first female fantasy/sci fi writer I ever read and as such she holds a special place in my heart. Her books are always wonderful, well written, and perfectly characterized. All of her series are great but I especially like the Crystal Singer series because of its action and clever look at the near future.
Nice end to a trilogy I quite enjoyed. I was pleasantly surprised to see this last book dedicated to Elizabeth Moon (another favourite of mine). The only thing that bothered me in this series was the Crystal Singer's culture of greed. However, that was tempered by the physical and mental consequences the singers eventually endured (perhaps an intended parable?)
Most of this book - up until close to the end - was disjointed and lacking any sense of flow in time, which perfectly fit the state of the protagonist, Killashandra's, mind. Interesting and effective style choice, though sometimes frustrating to me, as reader.
It took most of the series, and most of this book, but the main character was finally likeble! She finally grew up. She spent most of the series being a 200-year-old five-year-old. It was the concept of crystals and crystal singing and crystal cutting that kept me interested in the series.
Another re-read. I will not be keeping this trilogy on my shelves, just didn't like it as much this time around.
I've read this book multiple times over the years and each time I wish there had been another book. Yes, things worked out too well but the happy ending was satisfactory.
wonderful Imaginitive settings !! great character Development, smooth exciting to read !!! Have not read anything this wonderful since I finished the Outlander books !!!
Excellent character development, tight narrative. Couldn't put it down!
