https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27001.The_Well_of_Lost_Plots
Book Review  3 of 5 stars to The Well of Lost Plots, the third thriller and mystery book in the "Thursday Next" series written in 2003 by Jasper Fforde. For those new to the series, it's a detective story where crimes occur inside books, and real-life people can jump inside the book to fix the problem or solve the crime. In book 3, things take a bit of a turn... Thursday, the main investigator, needs some down time, and goes to the "Well of Lost Plots," where unpublished books go to die. But c
3 of 5 stars to The Well of Lost Plots, the third thriller and mystery book in the "Thursday Next" series written in 2003 by Jasper Fforde.
Thursday, the main investigator, needs some down time, and goes to the "Well of Lost Plots," where unpublished books go to die.
It was here that I decided to stop reading the series as it started going over my head a little bit.
I may go back soon to pick it up again, as I've never read another series of books like it...
I’m sad to say I didn’t enjoy this book anywhere near as much as the first two in the series.
While I think Fforde’s choice to set the action almost entirely in the Bookworld was an intriguing one, I also got the sense he was in over his head.
The action took place in so many different settings and with such a huge cast of characters that I never felt entirely grounded within either the story or the people in it.
That said, I did still enjoy the copious literary references, the smart humor, and Fforde’s unusual way of musing about the process of creating books.
The writing was absolutely superb, the plot was engaging and very original and the literary references hysterical.
I found myself more than once jumping to Wikipedia to find out from which book a particular character or reference originated.
A few fun examples (1) a rage counseling session for the characters of Wuthering Heights, (2) Miss Havisham from Great Expectations in a contest with Mr Toad (from The Wind in the Willows) to set the land speed record and (3) King Solomon as head of the Jurisfiction's Arbitration Department.
In a world of cookie cutter fantasy and science fiction, Jasper Fforde has created something that is truly original.
And the Miss Haversham of this novel isn’t so well developed as a character away from Dickens that a reader would come to care for Fforde’s version instead.
She – and many other literary figures – are just tossed in as throwaway jokes, but so little else is done with them that they remain pencil sketches of other author’s characters.Though perhaps the most irritating thing of all is that throughout this book there seems to be a smug belief that this one of the cleverest and funniest novels anyone could ever read.
Mrs. Havisham, the depressing spinster from Great Expectations, loves to drive fast so it only makes sense she has a rivalry with Mr. Toad from The Wind in the Willows street racing whenever they can promote fast cars & spare the time.The jokes about the classics are fantastic, too.
There is a big reveal in this book that wasn't all that surprising, but important.
I expect it will be even more obvious in the next book since it makes a rather pointless character a lot more important & changes things.This is a series written in chronological order so don't read this book first.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Thursday's beloved mentor, introduced in the previous novels, Miss Havisham (from Great Expectations) is helping her become a full agent.Other prominent characters that might seem familiar - Falstaff, Cheshire Cat, Minotaur, Marianne Dashwood, Heathcliff, the Red Queen, and Count Dracula.
These books are tailor-made to people who love books, reading, and literature.Thursday Next is an AMAZING female character.
In this novel she's pregnant - and also running around saving the (book) world.
A great example of a good female character written well by a male author...it CAN be done.I highly recommend this book to people who love literature.
More and more disappointing, this series. The whole story sounded like an enormous and finally quite annoying backstage gossip. I think I've had enough of Thursday Next.
Except for people who find it accidentally, who'd read a review of this book?
None the less....This book (as I'm sure is true for the rest of the series) is meant as something of a reader's book...
Have you ever been playing around with a group of friends who all saw the same film or read the same book as yourself, and all felt somewhat similar about it, and you go off on this big long tear about the possible interaction of the characters and what might have been and how -hilarious- that might have been?
I felt that a lot of the references to other books were a bit...
Personally, I loved it.
Interestingly though, before I launched into the Thursday next books, I had already read the 1st 2 of Fforde's ' Nursery Crimes’ series, which intersects loosely with the book world setting of this 3rd novel, and for me a large part of the reading pleasure here was in the cleverness of that intersection, And so perhaps that has some impact upon the way I read the book.Like the previous 2 in the series, The Well Of Lost Plots is, if nothing else, a light-hearted romp (and yes, I do apologise for the cliche,) in this one Jasper Fforde is clearly having fun with, and exploring fully, the potential of both the characters and world he's created.
DNF at 70% The title is supposed to be a description of the location of most of the book. Lost plots and generic characters abound, unfortunately what it really describes is the book itself. Overly clever, steeped in literary geekdom and lame, in your face, characterizations. Not much to like about this book even Thursday was a miss. 2 stars for a few scattered funny moments and Thursday's gran.
Most of the "action" consists of Thursday meeting and interacting with other Jurisfiction members and the characters in the book she's living in, Caversham Heights.
While this is entertaining, it's not exactly a novel.The main thread that continues from beginning to end and that actually is a conflict, and one that continues from the earlier books, is Thursday's dream encounters with Aornis, Acheron's younger sister, who wants to avenge her brother's death.
The end does pick up, though, and it becomes more like the first two novels in the series, which are filled with action, even to the point of being convoluted with various plots and subplots.
I ended up loving it though, and laughed as much as I did while reading the first two books, and cared as much about Thursday and certain other characters as much as well.This book was kind of all over the place more than the first two books in the series, but there were so many wonderful tidbits.
I was distressed by the elimination of one character, but assume I’ll have many others to enjoy in the remaining books in the series.I’m one of those readers that reads absolutely every word on & in a book, and this is one book where some of the “extras” are part of the book and part of the fun.I’m really enjoying this Thursday Next series by Jasper Fforde.
There's something in me that wants to dislike these books, but I just can't. They are both absurd and ridiculously clever, and stuffed full of jokes that only a gramma(rfan) could love. I appreciate that Fforde explodes the formulae of every genre he skewers, refusing to return his characters to the starting block for the next book. I sometimes find everything a little too clever and self-congratulatory, and the quotes that start the chapters irritate me with their look-ma-no-exposition exposition, but some tiny detail usually comes along to redeem the book again. Fun stuff.
I jumped right into "The Well of Lost Plots" after finishing "Lost in a Good Book". I think I'm ready for some other reading for a while. "The Well of Lost Plots" was a pretty interesting book, and it was fun. But, there wasn't a lot of plot to it and it jumped around a lot. Once again, Thursday's primary problem remains unresolved. I hope it gets taken care of in the next volume.Oh, and I think I need to read "Great Expectations".
SO CREATIVE!! I love this book and I love this series. ♥
While there, she ends up joining the Book World police (Jurisfiction) as an apprentice to the Dickens Great Expectations character Mrs Haversham.As in the previous two novels, this one if full of funny dialogues and meetings with characters from some of the great classics (Dickens, Brontë and Verne are just a few).
However, the details are sometimes at the expense of the plot, which was something that book 1 and 2 suffered from too.
I'm convinced that Fforde is one of the most brilliant authors writing fiction today.The Well of Lost Plots, rather than being more of the same from the world of Thursday Next and Jurisfiction, is something fresh, still original, never boring, and simply...
Sad moments in a fictional book about fictional characters are quite strange, somehow.
I expect just as much joy from that series as from Thursday Next and her pseudo-autobiography.Fforde has become a very important member of my beloved authors list...
But whilst she's in Bookworld she still has duties to attend to, whether that be an Alice in Wonderland trial, helping Miss Havisham run anger management groups in Wuthering Heights or try and work out what's wrong with the new book operating system UltraWorld.It's an interesting move to completely leave the parallel universe Swindon behind here but I thought it was excellent.
It really expanded the idea of Bookworld and had lots of clever things to say about writing books.
Thursday Next spends time in Sense and Sensibility, Wuthering Heights and even Shadow The Sheepdog.
Just got this one and had to read it right away. I was going to wait, as I still haven't read Lost in a Good Book, but I picked it up just to look through it and I couldn't put it down. I'm not even sure really why I like this series so much. Maybe just because it is so different. Or maybe it's all the Lewis Carroll stuff. But it was really good and I'm anxious to read more in this series.
If you have a robust knowledge of British Literature and a working knowledge of the constructs of the novel, this is the novel for you. Once again Jasper Fforde's protagonist Thursday Next is thrown into a literary adventure that includes the Cheshire Cat, a Dodo and an Out of Print Explorer who is trying to sell his adventures on the sly in the Well of Lost Plots. The audio is narrated by Emily Gray who does a fine job in voicing the vast numbers of characters . On to the next Thursday Next book, Something Rotten.
I started The Well of Lost Plots still high on my post-Lost in a Good Book excitement.
and explaining her non-fictional status ad-nauseamYet, when it came to Thursday's Jurisfiction duties, things got extremely tedious:- fighting grammasites (by means of a Christmas carol chock full of irregular verbs)- getting roped into illegal plot-device dealings (random severed heads are a mong the most valuable commodities)- attending Jurisfiction meetingsLiterature buffs may enjoy them, but for my rather "unsophisticated" tastes, it was just very confusing.As in the previous book, the main story thread took its sweet time to announce its appearance, which irked me just as much this time.
There is not much happening here to bring the actual story forward, but a trip into the world of books and smooth, articulate writing is always a pleasure.
This series is really becoming more and more delightful.
"There's an east wind coming, Watson." "I think not, Holmes.
It is very warm." "Good old Watson!
It will be cold and bitter, Watson, and a good many of us may wither before its blast.
But it's God's own wind none the less, and a cleaner, better, stronger land will lie in the sunshine when the storm has cleared."  One can hope.
Sigh.Anyway, this series is a book-lover's delight.
The series is starting to lose its appeal for me.
But I feel the author gets distracted too easily from the main plot and is more concerned with sidequests and making witty plays on words and dropping names than with character development or pacing.
Thursaday next has retreated into the Book World were abstract concepts roam free and where you can interract with every character ever written.
The possibilities for mischief and for fanciful twists on known tropes are endless, and perhaps I can understand how the author got caught up in his own creation.
I am planning to continue with the series, but not as a top priority.
In the third instalment of the series, real life becomes a bit too dangerous for Thursday, so she goes into hiding in the book world.
And not just any part of the book world, but the Well of Lost Plots, where unpublished novels languish.
Sadly, however, he spends so much time world-building and losing himself in interesting ideas that the plot suffers.
Very little actually happens in the first three fourths of the book; mostly it's an overly long description of life in the book world.
In this third installment of the Thursday Next literary mystery series, our agent finds herself working for Jurisfiction in the Book World, residing in one of the unpublished novels to be found in the Well of Lost Plots.
Fforde creates a clever fantasy world and uses numerous literary puns, which make The Well of Lost Plots worth reading.
The story itself, however, is not really gripping, and Thursday's character has never seemed well developed or "real" to me.
I keep reading this series because of the flashes of humour and the pure pleasure of being "in" on the literary jokes.
I loved, love, loved this book. I mean, really loved this book. I didn't remember the first or the second books in this series being quite so witty and funny. I really enjoyed the way Mr. Fforde writes and I think Thursday may well be my new favorite character. I wanted to go back and re-read the first two books in the series to see if I missed something. This book was so funny and I loved the way the chapters began with an absurd news article or an insight of Thursday's thoughts via her journal. Great story!
Mijn derde Jasper Fforde en ik moet toegeven dat ik verslaafd geworden ben aan de boekenwereld van Thursday. Het is boekengerelateerd op zoveel manieren dat je het amper kunt volgen, origineel, met de nodige laagjes (er zit ook een hoop politiek in, totaal onverwacht) creatieve taalspelletjes (je moet wel van Engels houden, ik heb geen idee hoe dit vertaald zou kunnen worden) en spanning!Ideale vakantielectuur https://www.theguardian.com/books/200...
Fforde-dipendenzaUn autore semplicemente geniale... a cui chiederei in prestito uno "stanaripetizioni" e team annesso ogni volta che mi trovo a scrivere ;-) Qui la mia recensione: http://www.sololibri.net/Il-pozzo-del...
