https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/840394.The_Quick_and_Easy_Way_to_Effective_Speaking
I read this book when I was 16 years old. That was in 1974! My father made me take the Dale Carnegie course then and I have to say I have been a public speaker my whole life. I learned a-lot from this book and others by him. A must read!
I bought this book one week before I was scheduled for a public speaking engagement, to get myself added confidence and some fresh ideas on effective speaking. It worked!! It is full of good, solid concepts to help anyone become a confident and entertaining speaker.
I recommend this one for general conversational goodness as well as foundations for active speaking practice.
such as (1) using people's names in retail stores (they have name-tags for a reason), (2) making an honest effort to say what's on people's minds (but spin it good-like) when public shenanigans occur, and (3) small talk more in lines, stores, et cetera.
I still suck at it, but now I care less about looking a fool and am working on technique!There are some great general take-aways, plans for active speaking, and some little "a-ha"-esque nuggets that will make this book worth your while...
(الحديث الفعّال هو الذي يكشف عن شخصية الإنسان) هكذا ابتدت دورثي كارنيجي تقديمها( لكتاب طريقة سهلة وس
لا اعتقد اني سأقرا كتاب اروع ولا اشمل ولا اثرى اكثر من هذا الكتاب الرائع .. قرأت سابقاً كتب في الاقاء وكانت كلها كتب غثاء و هزليهلكن هذا الكتاب يخبرك ويعلمك احجار الاساس في الاقاء الارتجالي او الرسمي ومكون من عده ابواب فصول مثل المهارات الاساسيه المقدمة النهاية صفات الخطيب المميز وغيرهاما يميز الكتاب هو (امثله) السياسين والاقتصادين وكيف كانت خطبهم وتحليلها .. التدريب والتمارين .. اقتباسات جميله جدا .. واجملها ( هو تلخيص كل باب في نهايته ) الكتاب الذي انتظر ترجمته مثل هذا النوع هو ( talk like ted )
Well, if you want to use an example with people, give them names, it makes it easier for your audience to relate to them.This is this book's strongest foundation, the colorful examples and the author ability to relate to his readers through them.
Developing Confidence Get the facts about fear of speaking in public Prepare in the proper way Predetermine your mind to success Act confident3.
Speaking Effectively the Quick and Easy Way Speaking about something you have earned the right to talk about through experience or study Be sure you are excited about your subject Be eager to share your talk with your listenersPart TwoSpeech, Speaker, and Audience4.
I won a Scholarship the Dale Carnegie Leadership workshop series and so will be reading three of his books. I'm very excited about the experience. Public Speaking has always been one of my strong suits, but I'd have to be a fool to not take this opportunity to dust off and polish my existing skill set.
It take me long time to finish it , it is very useful book.
7.NÓI MỘT BÀI NGẮN ĐỂ KHỞI ĐỘNG( BÀI THUYẾT TRÌNH KÊU GỌI) Những mục đích quan trọng của một bài thuyết trình -Để thuyết phục mọi người làm theo -Để cung cấp thông tin -Để gây ấn tượng và có sức thuyết phục -Để giải trí Chọn đúng mục đích để phù hợp với khán giả và hoàn cảnh Công thức kì diệu: hãy bắt đầu bài thuyết trình của bạn bằng cách cung cấp một ví dụ cụ thể, 1 ví dụ minh hoạ làm rõ ý chính bạn muốn nói.
To the people with fears, anxiety and to the people who are insecure to do so, The Quick & Easy Way to Effective Speaking will be very helpful, also both to those who seek merely to operate calmly, with greater ease and self-confidence in a practical pursuit, and to those who wish to explicitly express themselves more completely as an individual.
Tell what life has taught you, dig deep in your own background because only then you will be able to talk from your heart and with ease and the listeners will keep their attention on your speech.
I want to highlight these two stories that captured my interest the most.
Which first is:1) How lincoln always keep books with him wherever he go.
It's just such a good example that proved to us, books can improve a lot of ourselves, only if we read, focus and do it.2) "Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm".
Which this one story William Lyon Phelps was probably the most beloved and the most popular professor ever to teach at Yale University.
He said "teaching is more that an art or an occupation.
It is a passion".
Such an inspiring story
I always feel nervous when staying in front of many people, even in front of the group I have known well.
However, once I remember, I was chosen to speak in front of thousands of students for 10-15mn while I hadn't known it in advance and prepared nothing.
I kept staying calm, leant to microphone and I spoke of what I could think of.
I didn't even realize what I was talking, but surprisingly, as I finished, everyone clapped their hands, and teachers always kept praising me after that.
I will remember your word------ begin to talk as confidently as if every one of them owed you money.
References and anecdotes are dated, but the concepts are well-organized and their application is something I am striving to accomplish daily.
One thing that I learned after reading this book was that in order to speak effectively in the public, it takes certain preparation and adherence to certain principles in order to achieve that end.
This book will teach its readers with various principles and techniques in order to effectively speak in the public.
But the principles presented here are not a magical eloquent formulas as this book is filled with disciplines to follow so that we could train ourselves to become an effective public speaker.
What I really love about his works is that it provides principles that is easy to be understand and followed as it uses simple words by avoiding jargons and subtle instructions.
1. Tiêu đề 2. Dẫn nhập vào nội dung chính3. Nội dung chính4. Dẫn chứng + Ví dụ thực tế5. Kết luận + Bài học rút ra5. Phần bổ sung kiến thức/chú thích từ ngữ/địa danh/nhân vật đã được đề cập trong nội dung chính-> hoặc là tui không hợp với những thể loại sách như thế này, hoặc là tui vừa đọc trúng ngay chóc một version khác của cuốn sách giáo khoa đạo đức của NXB Giáo dục :|
A great little book for anyone looking to improve upon their speaking skills. Dale Carnegie is one of, if not the, greatest self-help authors of all time. He's written countless books on how to improve your business and personal skills, and this book does not disappoint. Like all of his books, it is a little old and dated, but practical and useful nonetheless. I'd recommend it to anyone who wants to improve their communication skills.
Well, this book delivers really interesting facts and ways. The way everything is explained is simple and easy. I liked this book and would recommend to everyone irrespective of their age. A very motivational book indeed.
i'm going to use the lesson to my fullest ability!
I've read both Norman Vincent Peale and Dale Carnegie's works.
In contrast, however, Peale is all about abstract ideas like "enthusiasm," or "positive thinking," and tries to admix it with his brand of "psychology" so that one could improve himself.
Carnegie didn't skip a beat with this book.
Examples are profuse; in addition, Carnegie's emphasis on interest towards one's subject of speech and igniting other people's interest in the subject by making it relevant to them remain to be salient nowadays.
This is a solid book, and is recommended for people trying to progress in their public speaking.
The Quick and Easy Way to Effective Speaking by Dale Carnegie was one of those freebies I picked up after completing a school project, along with Dale Carnegie's very well known How to Win Friends and Influence People.I can't help but think of Snake Oil when I see a title on any book that begins with "The Quick and Easy Way .
. ." Although Mr. Carnegie's book isn't Snake Oil, simply reading the book isn't a quick and easy way to effective speaking.
Although, I can't help but think that more contemporary self-help / effective speaking books might offer more research based information but probably not that much more in terms of general principles.
This book was absolutely incredible as I learned so much about how to give an effective speech from beginning to end.
While I learned so much about these concepts from my time at Toastmasters, the book goes incredibly in depth discussing things from speech format to things you should be conscious of from a personal level as well.Couple of key points are that for the introduction, you want to start out with some type of question, fact, story, or anything else that will really appeal directly to the audience and for the conclusion you want to end it in a way that will really make an impact on people.
Overall, just an absolutely incredible book that would highly recommend to anyone who wants to improve their public speaking skills
It is not often I read a book that is basically a waste of time, but this book by David Bornstein is one of them. I picked it up with the hopes of promise of something useful, but I was left with a collection of poorly written stories about "social entrepreneurs". Instead of writing about them and explaining their accomplishments in more practical terms, Bornstein leaves us with a history lesson.Buy this book if you want a fairly lengthy book on your shelf with an impressive title. Don't buy it for content.
The book really is a quick and easy guide to public speaking.
The things I loved about the book is that (a) it is easy to understand, (b) reading it wasn't boring because it is filled with true stories about the people who Dale Carnegie taught and anecdotes that makes the topics easier to digest and to retain in the readers' mind and (c) there is a sort-of chapter summary at the end of every chapter, which reminds the readers of what was tackled and the important points of the chapter.
I honestly can't a find a fault in this book.
This is one of the better self-help books on public speaking, and I'd recommend it to anyone who is presenting a paper or simply giving a speech. It stays true to the title: it's quick, effective, and easy.
An absolute must read for public speakers. I'd recommend it to everyone else too because of its focus on growing up into a confident, enthusiastic person who delights in conversation and the sharing of ideas.
It was very good guide to effective speaking.I recommend this book for every student who has a free time to read such a book. It is really going to develop lot of skills all most every student needs to do a presentation.
A wonderful book. I am going to reread & annotate it immediately. The challenge is to put the words into action. So many highly powerful skills & tools. Potentially life changing little reference book.
the cliff notes:have passion and enthusiasm for your topicbe knowledgeable practice at every opportunity
Decent book. Took away some tips for my professional career and speaking with coworkers and upper management.
A very detailed book. It tackles everything i need to know about public speaking. Good Job Dale Carnegie! :)
