https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11389.Arrowsmith
This novel follows Dr. Martin Arrowsmith from small Midwest town (the setting of most of Lewis' works) in "medic" school through his career, during which he is constantly challenged to balance the ideals he learned as a scientific researcher to pursue "truth," with the pressures of the healthcare market.
The shadow of Max Gottlieb hangs over Martin Arrowsmith as he discovers the harsher realities of life as a small country doctor, and later, the political realities of working in a public health department under a man more dedicated to finding a way to Congress than to doing his job.
But then in the final pages Arrowsmith (view spoiler)[left his wife and very young child - he was annoyed by the number of social engagements his wife wanted him to attend - and moved to the woods to do science with a fellow man-scientist.
But in reality Arrowsmith has been an asshole his entire life: in college he gets engaged to two girls at once; while married to his first wife he kisses and entertains thoughts of having affairs with two different women, the second one while his wife is actually dying of the plague several miles away (hide spoiler)].
One difference is that the later book presents us with a young hero having a fully developed moral sense to start with, and with our book here we see, to better effect, how a man becomes a heroic figure in the first place -- how he learns which choices really matter.
Another point of contrast lies in the role of capitalism, which helps the protagonist in The Fountainhead but hampers Martin in his own search for creative freedom.
Either way, the effective status of the free market plays a crucial role in both books.In further contrast, one finds in Martin a callow lad vulnerable to poor judgment, a flaw that elicits an indulgent sympathy.
and then there's alsothey could rock, but they couldn't spellupdate: I'm abashed to say now that I will need to reacquire the book, since, having read Main Street, I hope to read/re-read all his best novels, of which Arrowsmith is one.I am sorry to admit that this is one of the two three books I've read by Lewis, especially so since I grew up about 30 miles from Sauk Centre Minnesota, where he was born and raised.
.Previous review: Another WorldRecent review: Seven Against ThebesNext review: Boswell's Presumptuous TaskPrevious library review: It Can't Happen HereNext library review: Main Street
3.5 stars, rounded down.To truly appreciate Arrowsmith, you must appreciate satire, because much of this book is written a bit tongue in cheek.
Martin Arrowsmith is a man who aspires to be a pure scientist, and struggles to do so in the face of commercialism, hubris and ambition.
Martin Arrowsmith is a physician, but one who cares little for the practice of medicine and is much more involved with the research of disease.
What is the purpose of the independent research laboratory--the production of discovery useful to the population or the making of profits for the shareholders?
Martin sells out a few time in this story, but it makes his character more interesting.
My favorite aspect of this book is the relationship between Martin and Max. I know what it is like to have such high respect for an individual; to the point where when you violate their values, you are convicted yourself.
The only problem that I had with this book was the ending.
It just seemed that the last few chapters could have been extended a bit since Lewis was so detailed when he spoke of Martins' school experience, his time in North Dakota, and his career development.
The author is stating that many are (view spoiler)[more interested in fame and fortune (hide spoiler)] than in either caring for their patient or, if they have chosen to do research, their quest for new knowledge.
It is a question of where their heart lies.
true interest lies.
We have ideals but rarely do we follow them absolutely through to the end.
I felt the book portrayed characters as caricatures, too much as black versus white, good versus bad.
I felt the book pushed the central question to an extreme.
A total pleasure to listen to; it is not his fault I didn't appreciate the book's content.
When I read this book, it started my love for Sinclair Lewis. He is, as far as I'm concerned, the Charles Dickens of the US. This book is about a young man who experiences disappointments and disillusionment in his life on his way to a career that he believes he wants.
The book has one redeeming character, Arrowsmith's wife, Leora, who sticks with him through good and bad, and always is at home to lend an ear or a shoulder for him to rest upon.
Throughout this book Arrowsmith cannot make up his mind as to his life, his career, and so many other things.
He is the King of wishy-washy and moves his wife all over the country as his quest for what he really wants to do with life changes again and again.
He moves from family doctor, to lab technician, to other jobs as he goes across the US.
On the one hand, he is a devotee of Max Gottlieb's pure scientific research that is entirely lacking in glamour (but itself a kind of monastic purity) and on the other the perceived demands of making money by his practice.
One of the undercurrents of the book - and I claim this as simply my interpretation - would be Dr Martin Arrowsmith's journey of seeking a paternal figure, for it seems that he is always hastening to fill that considerable absence in his life (very little is said about his own family life, a matter that is managed in the first few pages before it vanishes for good).
I don't know how long Sinclair Lewis took to write it.
Martin Arrowsmith has several stages in his life, and the writing itself seems to change with it.
I don't think that was intentional, just, perhaps, that Lewis improved as he went along.
In the earlier stages mid-westerners were narrow-minded, Christian capitalists and treated in a small way by Lewis.
Actually, I don't think the characterizations of the men were all that great either, but most of them were closer to being real people.I think I read his Babbit decades ago, and I'm probably finished with whatever Sinclair Lewis has to offer.
Free download available at Faded Page.This work is in the Canadian public domain, but may be under copyright in some countries. If you live outside Canada, check your country's copyright laws. IF THE BOOK IS UNDER COPYRIGHT IN YOUR COUNTRY, DO NOT DOWNLOAD OR REDISTRIBUTE THIS FILE.
This author, in this novel, is to me a clear inheritor of Mark Twain's satirical bite and sheer funniness.
Lewis was clearly a sharp comedian and a relentless critic of American society as it was (and basically still is), and in this novel is a rival for Babbitt in that its characters have more depth and heart, whereas Babbitt is only home to caricatures we don't quite like.
As upsetting (?) as the 'message' under the surface may be, this is a book that allows for lightness and, god forbid in a literary masterpiece, smiling.
Garrison Keillor and Kurt Vonnegut strike me as inheritors of Lewis, consciously or not.
After the satires of MAIN STREET and BABBITT, Sinclair Lewis wrote ARROWSMITH (1925), in part, to prove that he did not "lack spiritual gifts." It's also meticulously well-researched, based in no small part on the fact that Lewis's father was a "country doctor" - a plain g.p. It's long and involved, but the story of how Martin Arrowsmith makes his way through every medical situation from stultifying small town through cut-throat research institute to agonizing tropical disease is finely rendered -- a little satiric, of course, but no more than it had to be.
In fact, ARROWSMITH is the novel for people who have read BABBITT or ELMER GANTRY and want something with a little more teeth.
I loved this book, because I just adore the main character, Martin Arrowsmith. I was skeptical because of the length of this novel, but after reading this, I would not edit one word. The life of this would be biochemist is tough, yet touching. I enjoy Sinclair Lewis style and prose. Great story. Recommend!
It took me forever to finish this book, but of course, I experienced some of life's upheavals since starting it. It was a fascinating study of a man struggling to devote his life to science, with his failures and his successes. It was more intellectually stimulating rather than emotionally engaging, although one event did cause me a great deal of sympathy for Dr. Arrowsmith. But I won't spoil it for anyone...
I can understand why this novel was so important at the time, for it brought out the conflicts between public and private healthcare, between discovery and commercial exploitation, and between researcher and healer.Arrowsmith, a product of rural mid-west America, is the quintessential scientist, content to shun the pleasures and riches of the world and be sequestered in his laboratory unravelling the secrets of major epidemics.
You are a lie-hunter, and a hick.” Arrowsmith’s other major influence is his research professor, Gotlieb, a renowned bacteriologist and an irascible seeker of the truth at whatever human cost.The novel is packed with incident and chronicles our hero’s life from his youth, through his university years, to his early life as a physician in mythical mid-western towns such as Wheatsylvania (pop.
Though we now have "evidence-based medicine" and a tacit assumption that we only do things that have been scientifically proven based on real data, I think this struggle is still alive and well in reality.As for the book as literature worth reading, Martin Arrowsmith's personal struggle actually becomes pretty compelling in the end.
Most of the others are smart-mouthed or fairly silly airheads, controlling, wealthy harpies, and pretentious pseudo-intellectuals.In the end, reading Arrowsmith gave me some interesting medicine-relevant issues to think about and overall an engaging story, in spite of its dated attitudes and style.
Martin Arrowsmith is an every-man and the question is, is it in us, through him to be a hero?
Do not let the medical vocabulary throw you off, Arrowsmith is something anyone can read and enjoy.We meet Arrowsmith as a very young person, already fascinated by medicine.
He is the friend of one of the local medical doctors, an otherwise broken drunkard who allows this young person to perform as a town medical man.
But hovering in the background while I read was this irritating question, "Why don't I like this more?" The story kept me engaged when it was in my hands, but I never felt the urge to pick it back up once I set it down.
You weren't sure what would happen next with Martin oscillating between scoffing at and flirting with the corrupting commercialism Lewis continuously ridiculed throughout the story.
So why didn't I like it more?The story felt stiff, a bit too contrived, and the pacing uneven.
But like the story, the characters felt forced to me.
This is a broad, I mean really broad, satire of America. Lewis must have been a disillusioned, even bitter, man, but the humor is priceless. I read it for my Classics Book Group and am glad I did. There are many issues worth discussing.
The fictional life and growth of a doctor. A lot of the details still apply, and I know many doctors with similar anecdotes. A fine portrait of medical live in service to others.
No wonder this is considered "Great Literature". Truly moving, well worth the time it takes to read.
Exhausting, and not in a good way.
“It cannot be said, in this biography of a young man who has no degree a hero, who regarded himself as a seeker after truth yet who stumbled and slid back all his life and bogged himself in every obvious morass..” (pg 45) Lewis writes with vigorous creativity and precision while puncturing about the arrogance and selfishness in humans.
This novel follows Dr. Martin Arrowsmith during the 1920s at a medical school in a small town in the Midwest.
A tragic turn of events influences him to come in terms with his career and personal life.
I like the way Lewis writes.
And, although Arrowsmith was constantly saying that he didn't want recognition, and was constantly trying to show that he didn't want fame, ultimately I felt that he did.
I like when that happens in books as it is so real.
We humans do a poor job of showing appreciation quite often.
Arrowsmith was far more dedicated to his science than he was to any person; truly, he was married to his job.
And despite the fact that I have no interest in the world of medical experimentation and research, Lewis somehow made that world intriguing.
And those are the kind I like best.
"I think truth does matter to me, but if it does, isn't the desire for scientific precision simply my hobby, like amother man's excitement about his golf?"He preached to himself, as Max Gottlieb had once preached to him, the loyalty of dissent, the faith of being very doubtful, the gospel of not bawling gospels, the wisdom of admitting the probable ignorance of one's self and of everybody else, and the energetic acceleration of a Movement for going very slow.He still had a fragment of his boyhood belief that congressmen were persons of intelligence and importance.Pickerbaugh had enjoyed the possession of large power only because he never used it."Ive got a lovely description for your dratted Famous Surgeons.
Leora, Martin Arrowsmith's first wife and love of his life, is careless in her appearance but has the uncanny ability to accept people as they are, whether it is crooked Cliff or Max Gottlieb, the scientist driven by pure untainted discoveries.
Martin himself is described with all his doubts and shown how he developed and is formed by all his changing environments starting in medical school, Leora's family, the public health department chief in Nautilus, the West Indies, and finally the rich life with his second wife.
Lewis je pro mě jedním z objevů posledních let, v podstatě co jsem četl, to bylo dobré. Arrowsmithovi dávám o hvězdičku míň, protože: 1) Babbitt je zkrátka ještě lepší, 2) téma smrtící epidemie a souvisejících existenciálních otázek zpracoval lépe Camus, 3) podle mě kreslí až příliš zidealizovanou postavu vědce jako spasitele lidstva a dokonalý prototyp člověka, 4) popisuje zoufale stereotypně ženské postavy. I tak se mi to ale fakt líbilo, zejména první část vývoje Smithe a jeho rozhodování/střetávání s realitou je asi i pro současné studenty medicíny myslím zcela aktuální.
I understand the awarding of the Pulitzer for this novel, and I also understand the difficulty the modern reader faces in reading it. Language and literature from a hundred years ago are different from that of today. Sinclair Lewis' targets, however, are just as prevalent now as then. It just requires more concentration on the reader's part to stick with Martin Arrowsmith since Lewis had a co-writer for the scientific sections. I read it for a series of discussions about science in literature.
