https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/209666.The_Journey_Home
I'm interested in his unabashed embracing of his own hypocrisies and contradictions, and this book contained some of the most compelling examples of those contradictions.
Much to my surprise, one of my favorites was "Manhattan Twilight, Hoboken Night." Having only spent about 6 hours in New York City, 2 of which were spent staring at Georgia O'Keefe paintings, i wasn't expecting this one to resonate at all, but this may have been one of the most haunting and beautiful descriptions of urban ecology and landscape that i've read.
For example: "When I was there I thought New York was dying.
“A taste of mountains; I could not say I had come to know them in any significant way. All I had learned was something about myself. I had discovered that I am the kind of person who cannot live comfortably, tolerably, on all-flat terrain. For the sake of inner equilibrium there has to be at least one mountain range on at least one of the four quarters of my horizon— and not more than a day’s walk away.”All I had learned was something about myself.
Respect the Earth, yes, but Abbey leaves a trail of beer cans on his trips across the landscape; then again, as with the Ford convertible story, tossing beer cans becomes a point of pride, of asserting his freedom, as if he’s the only one in the world.
He’s a hard core materialist, critical of religion and its "obsolete" mythologies, yet he writes about “the poets and the prophets” who have been telling us for three thousand years that there’s “a better way to live.” His distrust of government is such that he sees “what little wilderness remains as a place of refuge, as a hideout, as a base from which to carry on guerrilla warfare against the totalitarianism of my nightmares.” This is Black Helicopter stuff.
The Journey Home is a collection of essays "in defense of the American West," but Abbey fills it with more emotion than that, more spirit.
A better explanation of the book might be: "in defense of humanity's need for wildness and wilderness; in defense of the spiritual renewal that can be gained from the American West."This book is not just cheesy nature writing.
It's far from him usual topics, but the writing of it is indeed beautiful.The Journey Home is well worth reading, but I must give you a warning: it creates a deep, powerful wanderlust.
there are some gems in here, but I didn’t enjoy it quite as much as some of Abbey’s other collections. nevertheless, reading Abbey just stirs something in me— urges to take off into the desert Southwest (which I’ve never seen or been to), destroy some dams and billboards, paddle down desert rivers.
poignant, poetic, abrasive. edward abbey in a nutshell. no one has done it better
I am a huge huge fan of Edward Abbey and this book did not disappoint.
I have been slowly reading through his works for years.
I read the Monkey Wrench Gang probably 20 years ago.
I read Desert Solitare about a year ago and this year I read the Journey Home.
This book is differnt that Desert Solitare in that is is a collection of self contained essays--because it is Abbey all of them are entertaining.
What I like best of all about Edward Abbey--and it is particularly evident in this book--is the contradictions in the man himself.

apart from "Desert Solitaire," Abbey's nonfiction is rather indistinguishable to me, still I've read and enjoyed it, and always take some Abbey with me on trips to the desert--"Be Prepared.
That is my belief and that is my motto.
I tend to go off in a more or less random direction myself, half-baked, half-assed, half-cocked, and half-ripped.
Well, because I have an indolent and melancholy nature and don't care to be bothered getting all those things together--all that bloody gear--maps, compass, binoculars, poncho, pup tent, shoes, first-aid kid, rope, flashlight, inspirational poetry, water, food--and because anyhow I approach nature with a certain surly ill-will daring Her to make trouble."
Edward Abbey is not going to influence my philosophy or provide guidance for my actions.
However, I still read him for several reasons.
Abbey has spent time in many locations that I would like to travel to and spend time at.
So, the descriptions of places and sights give me incentive to chose one place over an other.
However, do I need to hear another story of how Abbey trashes a car in the wilderness.
And, at times, Abbey comes up with a wonderful story/essay that I like to read.
So, I read and allow myself to be informed or amazed.
This is a collection of essays describing Abbey's love of the West but I wasn't able to appreciate his "leave it as it was" attitude. He paints himself a jerk by throwing beer cans on the roads and destroying a girlfriend's new car. Perhaps the American West would be better of with more of his novels and fewer of his essays.
Written in the 1970’s it is certainly prophetic as he warns against the corporate takeover of the wilderness, the extraction of oil and minerals which taint the earth and particularly the question of water which is one that desert inhabitants are increasingly encountering.
One of the strongest voices in the preservationist movement, Abbey pulled no punches and we should honor his contributions.
Abbey who died in 1987 at the age of 62 was buried in the environmental style he desired, wrapped in a sleeping bag and put into the earth by his friends.
Overhead and in our hearts a black sun.Down in the cellar and up in the attic of that fantastic house - four stories high, brownstone, a stoop, wide, polished banisters, brass fittings on the street entrance, a half-sunken apartment for the superintendent, high ceilings, high windows and a grand stairway on the main floor, all quite decently middle class and in the better part of town, near the parks, near the Stevens Institute of Technology - hung draperies of dust and cobweb that had not been seen in the light of day or touched by the hand of man since the time of the assassination of President William McKinley.In the sunless attic the spiders had long since given up, for all their prey had turned to dust; but the rats roamed freely.
I’ve read a few of Abbey’s books, but this was my first nonfiction read of his—a collection of essays about the wild. I was drawn to his personal experiences in the works but found myself nodding and exclaiming affirmations to his philosophies about the natural world and the need for its defense. I would read anything he wrote.
I enjoyed the first half of the book but my interest started waning in the second half. Desert Solitaire and Down the River were much more engrossing.
A mixed collection of essays, with some wonderfully moving pieces along with a few clunky or dated ones.
There are two reasons to read books by Edward Abbey; the first is for his descriptive writing, which wholly absorbed me when I first read Desert Solitaire years ago.
We crave adventure, Abbey writes, danger -- the wilderness offers it.
Given Abbey's gruffness here, I would refer new readers to Desert Solitaire...but once a friendlier introduction is made then by all means return here to experience more of that beautiful description, that delightful cussedness, that adventurous what-the-hell-carpe-diem view Abbey took to life, its appeal aided by his thoughtfulness.
A lot has changed, but the immense appeal of this land has not.I loved so many of the pieces in this book, but my very favorites were his journal of living & working as a fire scout at Glacier National Park (“Fire Lookout: Numa Ridge”) and his account of following Major John Wesley Powell’s adventure boating down the Colorado River, starting from the head of the Green River in Wyoming down 1,000 miles to Lake Mead (“Down the River with Major Powell”).I’ll end by sharing one of the passages from this collection that I think does the best job describing the appeal of this incredible region that I love so much, and I’ll also share a few photos I took during my time out west this summer.The canyon country does not always inspire love.
I don't know about tossing beer cans out the truck window (there are too many along our road - cans and fast food bags and trash), but the themes and theses Abbey explored in this anthology is right-on for then - and now.Long known is the fact that Big Government colludes with Big Business and Big Military and the result is habitat destruction, land nuding, growing chasms between rich and poor, increased "desire" to have things you don't need, and huge loss and unhappiness.
I continue to admire the raucous and ribald journeys of people like Abbey and Doug Peacock.
I loved that he summered each year in Telluride surrounded by 14,000 foot peaks and takes us on a hike up Lizard Mountain.
This is a region of spectacular beauty that I have written about and would love to explore more.
I especially loved gliding on the Green River with him in the wake of early explorer John Wesley Powell.
His language is crisp his self-deprecating humor refreshing and his diatribes against those who would plunder and pillage the American West deserved.
The American West is in even greater peril today then when this book was published in 1977 warning us of the travesties being perpetrated in our remaining open spaces.
I'm glad I decided to read this one again because not only was I reminded that the American West is worth preserving, but I was also reminded of the great experience I had when I first read the book in my high school days.
I don't read too many books dealing with ecology because it doesn't seem like an interesting subject to me, but I'm glad Abbey used the ecology aspects in such a way that someone such as myself could appreciate them.
Perhaps that will influence me in some ways in terms of doing little things to benefit the environment.
His trademark mix of irreverent environmental commentary and log of personal experience is exceptionally thought provoking and enjoyable.
"Wilderness and Freedom" was my top essay within, followed closely by "Lookout at Numa Ridge", his account of many summers spent as a fire lookout in Glacier National Park.
There's many that are better but I appreciated this one for offering a portrait of him as more complex then a misogynist racist wacko as he's occasionally made out to be by folks critiquing his legacy to the environmental movement.
"As I see it, our own nation is not free from the danger of dictatorship.
Its been over ten years since I read Desert Solitaire and I've combed through a couple of his works looking for another collection of stories that hit me with the same "between-the-eyes" impact as Desert Solitaire.
To me Edward Abbey represents the second coming of John Westly Powell.
He, like Major Powell, foresaw the westward expansion of the U.S. and in the case of the desert southwest instinctively knew that water would be the limiting factor.
It's important to remember that Abbey saw the huge growth up tick coming some 25 years ago.
Abbey puts it all in focus with "The BLOB Comes to Arizona." "Telluride Blues - A Hatchet Job" is another case in point.
Edward Abbey had the combination of outdoor abilities, ability to think creatively and the honesty to tell the real story.
He was another of Wallace Stegner's pupils in the Stanford Writing program.
So I have many questions, but for a book that is relevant today even though written in 1977 many answers are suggested.
Who of his stature is writing now, for instance, about the Southern Nevada Water Authority proposed rape of eastern Nevada and western Utah's water supplies to satisfy the insatiable Las Vegas?
I doubt there will be anyone of his outdoor and writing skill combination, but will keep an open mind.
I had high expectations for "The Journey Home," since the dude over at "Cold Splinters," a neat camping blog I recently discovered, absolutely idolizes Edward Abbey.
Maybe I should have started with a different volume - I found "The Journey Home" to be a mixed bag.
EA's also a bit of a chauvinist - I would have hated to have been the wife he dragged along on crazy camping trips.
The collection wasn't nearly as cohesive as Down the River, and more than "in defense of the American West" it felt like a lot of his words were "whining about the current state of the American West."Still, I love reading about time spent in fire lookouts, and his passages about the Southwest are both surreal and vibrant to someone like me who has yet to visit and see those beautiful, stark landscapes for myself.
[Three stars for fire lookouts, Southwest rambling, backwoods ambling.]
Ed Abbey lived life big.
He had a passionate love of the wilderness and liked it unspoiled by either governmental interference or development.
He saw the land as necessary to the human soul, a place so big and wild it could make us a bit more whole just by standing to pause and look around.
Abbey was always best pleased when he could upset some group or political party and the series of essays in The Journey Home is a perfect example of this maverick, passionate, reckless, brilliant man’s absolute refusal to be pigeon holed or defined.
Amazing work.
Abbey writes so well, tells such great stories, and shares his deep anger so clearly.
It's insane what "we" are doing to the earth and to ourselves.
In these essays, Abbey exposes the industry-politician links that serve to stripmine, mountaintop-remove, subdivide, and pave away the world, and cause incalculable health hazards to people.
But as long as it makes a profit, it gets done.
He talks about fracking here, in 1977.
Now it's happening.
The system / is down." And I understand why Abbey wrote The Monkey Wrench Gang.)
LOVE it. Stories of his youth- stories from Death Valley where I just visited for the first time recently. Has me laughing out loud at times and so far is a collection of short stories. Verry happy thus far- chapter 9 is next. Edward Abbey didn't only appreciate and write of the wilderness. Read his short essay "Manhattan Twilight, Hoboken Night" (Chapter 9 in "The Journey Home") and prepare to be engrossed in a beautifully written account and celebration of NJ and NYC in the 60s. Quite a surprise to discover his love for cities.
A book I read eons ago but based on the number of underlines and check marks, clearly it spoke to me. Anyone who loves Abbey for his great works of monkey-wrenching owes it to themselves to tackle his other works. A great if atypical conservationist, and a curmudgeon who loves the desert--what's not to like?Here's a quick sample I found that shows Abbey's spirit:---Words of wisdom, often heard at Glacier, whispered through my brain: "Anyone who hikes alone, after dark, is asking for trouble." Bears are omnivorous, have no pride at all, will eat anything, even authors.---(pg 50)---
