https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/194746.No_Longer_Human
No Longer Human, published in 1948, is a timeless piece of writing that portrays the sense of isolation of Oba Yozo, a confused child who became a troubled man; roughly, a deceitful person unable to show his true nature to most people, a man disqualified as a human being.The book is mostly composed of three memoranda; the last one is divided into two parts.
In the end, incapable of understanding human beings, confused by their selfishness and artificial personalities, he steps into the world and becomes another unauthentic person, begetting the perception of having a jocose and amusing manner in the eyes of people around him.
Behind ballads of an orphaned heart,Lay poetic trance of a love’s facade.Dreads the ghostly art within hazy shades,Human shame in comic masquerades.Inebriated words coughing in notebooksEmpty sake bottles in curls of smoke,Vice or virtue, the gullible spirit bragsDiabolical tales of a death mask.“Everything passes”, cried the blue cradleSlept, the wings of a fallen angel.A solitary word blissfully prances from the anxious mind, fears the disintegration of its syllables; the distorted enunciation of its vowels, as it cautiously reaches at the tip of the tongue.
Each and every person that touched the core of Yozo’s life was a social pariah in their own struggling ways.
The individual becomes a society where in order to survive; one must adhere to the means of trickery and amateur dramatics shuffling between the societal chaos and normalization of basic humanity.
Additional thought: I just wanted to jump back in here for a little troll patrol: I understand from the blurb that this book is supposed to be about internal struggles of the Japanese concerning the infiltration of Western ideals, cultures clashing, confused identity, you know the drill.
I probably would have been okay anyway, but this shit helped a ton.
Dazai totally nails the impossibly bummed out mindset without being corny or melodramatic, and when you're basically just being a little sad black cloud all walking around, you're super cynical and things like this book are almost impossible to find 'cause your first reaction to everything is just to tear it apart and say it sucks...
Shit man, I kinda well up a little when I think about it.
it's merely a combination.as for a single person, and all humanbeings, what are they for?being a human is horrible because of its existencethey toil to make them stomaches filled up, to build subways to get things go quicker, to invent a pillow in order to have a nice sleep...cuz only the usefulness exists!only a goal that creates powers to move forward!only the things which have meanings that those can be understood...as to be consoled, console; to be loved, lovea man like me, who can't figure out the goal of finding the meaning of living or being a human.
This novel was utterly perfect and so masterfully written.
It's one of those books which I wish I had a printed copy so that I could smell and underline mostly everything, write comments next to paragraphs etc.
Hadn't I watched Bungo stray dogs and hadn't I identified as Osamu Dazai and hadn't I loved this character so much I would probably not have read this book soon enough.
I still feel like crying, and my heart still feels heavy, but yeah....If you can relate to Yozo you're going to love it and if you don't you can appreciate the excellent writing or its awesome quotes...
It's a brilliant novel, that's worthy of your time.
It was frustrating that Yozo did not try to know anyone else, worse still his talking in circles of what wasn't true.
I wish all the time that I could either stop being so honest about my embarrassing shit, or just stop feeling feeling bad about it (knowing all too well the pain of coming up against "friends" who despise depression in others).
I like to think about other people, try to understand them and how they feel or dream (even if they die in their sleep).
What is it with young men in so much Japanese literature?
Whether it's Murakami, Mishima, Soseki, or Dezai they always come across as either lonely, shut-off or damaged (or some combination of the three).
Yozo feels about as radically alienated from the world as any character could be.
Even bitchy little Holden Caulfield never carried half as much angst as the main character in No Longer Human seems to have.
And the loneliness he feels is all the more painful because of how deeply internalized it is, and how total his inability to communicate with others has become.
I guess, lost, alienated, young men are my favorite people when it comes to literature; Holden Caulfield, Clay, Tyler Durden, and now Yozo.
Yozo's detached from the rest of the world, he's pretty convinced that he's not just another Human being.
This reminds me so much of Catcher in the Rye; while the prose is nothing like Catcher in the rye, it still seems like Japanese CITR to me.
No Longer Human is the loneliest piece of fiction I've ever read.
It was painful to read about Yozo, isolated from rest of the world, I don't think there's another literary character as alienated as him; an outcast, having hard time to understand humans, homo-fucking-sapiens.
Atingido por uma profunda crise existencial, abandona os estudos, dedicando-se à escrita e caindo numa dependência sempre crescente de álcool e estupefacientes… Após diversas tentativas de suicídio, morre afogando-se no rio Tamagawa.””Não-Humano” é um romance narrado na primeira pessoa por Yozo, que contém vários elementos que indiciam a vertente autobiográfica da narrativa, na forma de Cadernos de Memórias, com um Prólogo e um Epílogo, por um homem perturbado ”A minha vida tem sido vergonhosa.
Yozo “assume” a figura de “palhaço” como forma de estabelecer relações pessoais, tentando desesperadamente mascarar a sua alienação, que se vai transmutando na juventude, com as inúmeras parceiras sexuais, com a dependência do álcool e o vício da morfina, sem nunca conseguir estabelecer relacionamentos emocionais consistentes e duradouros.
It's the worst thing when people refuse to bullshit, right?
Anyway "I am a sick man," says Dostoevsky's underground man, and Dazai shares Dostoevsky's bewilderment at humans, their rages and self-deceptions, their flailings.
People normally seem to be hiding this true nature, but an occasion will arise (as when an ox sedately ensconced in a grassy meadow suddenly lashes out with its tail to kill the horsefly on its flank) when anger makes them reveal in a flash human nature in all its horror.
This one looks like a horse out of hell!"The big influence is Dostoevsky, but he seems to have an answer for Tolstoy too.
This dual-view is an integral part of No Longer Human: while Yozo sees himself as a fraud, a clown-caper performing his way through a midnight world, his few friends and family never abandon him, and several women fall deeply for him - they see him as a bright, cheerful, and funny young man, incredibly handsome and full of bright life.
No Longer Human - a book with which I was not comfortable - a book which constantly frustrated me.
Was that why I read it in a day - to be done with it - to be able to put it back on the shelf?
He basically mistrusts others to the point of never being able to empathize with them.
But women are constantly attractive to him.
They are always ready to take him into their lives, to care for him.
What Yozo never never managed to realize is that he is just a nice guy.
the opening of this book, which is a description of three photographs taken of a man over the course of his life, is one of the most best and disturbing things i've ever read. just an absolutely thrilling beginning. the rest of the book doesn't quite live up to it, although it often comes close. it feels a lot like The Stranger or Notes from Underground. i only wish it built more instead of kind of petering out.
I couldn't stop thinking about Yukio Mishima while reading this book. A strange and eerily atmospheric book that sucked me in from the very first chapter. Although the whole dissociation with humans was a bit overtly explicit for my taste, I enjoyed reading it very much.
This is a remarkable book. Loneliness and suicide, but with a new look. Sparse and moving words.
No Longer Human  by Osamu Dazai is deep, painful, real and so very human. This book, which was first published in 1948, is a raw portrayal of the human thinking, feelings and emotions. It specifically captures the isolated, troubled, disturbed and confused thought process of a young man named Yozo.This well-written book though depressing and pessimistic is, in a way, a required reading for everyone, as it is important for each one of us to understand and feel what a fellow human being is going
No Longer Human
by Osamu Dazai is deep, painful, real and so very human.
This book, which was first published in 1948, is a raw portrayal of the human thinking, feelings and emotions.
It specifically captures the isolated, troubled, disturbed and confused thought process of a young man named Yozo.This well-written book though depressing and pessimistic is, in a way, a required reading for everyone, as it is important for each one of us to understand and feel what a fellow human being is going through, when they are feeling depressed, lonely and emotionally low.
No Longer Human is for all humans who have a heart that feels, and are compassionate and empathetic.
Thank you, Osamu Dazai 
It is also his magnum opus and a true-to-life representation of the restless and tormented spirit that Dazai was.
This work could be taken, at least to a certain extent, as an autobiographical account of the writer himself.Oba the main character recognizes, from early childhood, his place in the world, which is no place, neither here nor there.
He is able to find some solace, at least temporarily, in drink and women.
However, he is never able to remain at peace with himself for very long.
I can't recommend this work enough.
Sans égard pour les devoirs que l’on attendrait de lui, il dilapide sa fortune, tente de se suicider, et ne vivote plus que par la charité de femmes qui le prennent sous son aile cet être à la dérive, comme un bateau ivre, tandis qu’il s’abîme de plus en plus dans les eaux profondes et troubles des paradis artificiels.Ce roman m’a semblé illustrer l’importance de pouvoir affirmer notre vraie nature sur le monde, y imprimer notre volonté, et non pas toujours nous modeler suivant les circonstances, les impératifs, les déterminismes, la tradition, les désirs de notre entourage.
No Longer Human is brutal, and about as accurate a portrait of the skewing effects the twin corrupters of narcissism and depression can have on a life.
Anyone blessed enough to not have depression in them will likely not find much to like in this book, but for the rest of us, Dazai is brave/horrible enough to look straight into the mirror and report what is there.
One of the things I appreciated about No Longer Human is that it bypassed redemption for persistence; the narrator does not give it up a bit, even up to the end.
Sade, akıcı, muntazam.  Mutsuzluğum, reddetme yeteneği olmayan birinin mutsuzluğuydu. Bir şeyler reddedince, karşımdakinin yüreğinde de kendi yüreğimde de sonsuza dek onarılmayacak aleni bir çatlağın oluşacağı korkusunu taşırdım hep. //  Şu an ben ne mutluyum ne de mutsuz. Sadece her şey geçip gidiyor. Benim şimdiye kadar pantomim sayesinde yaşamaya sürdürdüğüm bu insan dünyasında, gerçek olduğunu düşündüğüm tek şey bu. Sadece her şey geçip gidiyor. Bu sene otuz yedi yaşında olacağım. Saçlarımda
Sade, akıcı, muntazam. 
  Mutsuzluğum, reddetme yeteneği olmayan birinin mutsuzluğuydu. Bir şeyler reddedince, karşımdakinin yüreğinde de kendi yüreğimde de sonsuza dek onarılmayacak aleni bir çatlağın oluşacağı korkusunu taşırdım hep.
//
   Şu an ben ne mutluyum ne de mutsuz. Sadece her şey geçip gidiyor. Benim şimdiye kadar pantomim sayesinde yaşamaya sürdürdüğüm bu insan dünyasında, gerçek olduğunu düşündüğüm tek şey bu. Sadece her şey geçip gidiyor. Bu sene otuz yedi yaşında olacağım. Saçlarımdaki aklar iyice çoğaldı diye insanlar beni kırkımı geçtim sanıyor. 
Tüm Osamu Dazai eserlerini edinip bağrıma basasım, bittiği için ağlayasım var. Öyle güzeldi ki!
Fails to deliver and didn't captivate me or draw me in in any serious way at all. Time passes, and things happen, but I feel like there's no reason for me to care. I don't feel anything reading this, and that's odd considering the topics dealt with. 177 pages blow by and leave no mark or trace at all. There are beautiful passages here, to be sure, but the book is, in my opinion, largely forgettable. Perhaps an issue with the translation?
After being "violated" by the servants, and being unable to tell anyone—the event is largely suppressed in the narrative since Yozo himself mentions it passingly as "that loathsome crime perpetrated on me by the servants"—he develops a crippling fear of people and a staggering inability to voice his wants and needs.
He carries this wound into young adulthood where a series of misfortunate relationships and a drinking/drug addiction bring about his psychological demise.The pinnacle of his descent, in my opinion, is when he writes a letter to his father asking for help.
Yozo takes his father's unresponsiveness as a clear-cut evidence of his unworthiness and thus confirming his unconscious childhood belief and shame.
Recommended for people who have hearts.
Dazai hep nokta atışı <3"Yani, anlamıyorum.
Çevremdeki insanların sıkıntılarının niteliğini, ölçüsünü, sanki kavrayamıyorum.
Pratik sıkıntılar, yalnızca yemek yiyerek atlatılabilen sıkıntılar.
Ancak, belki de, esas bunlar en sert ve benim şu on belamı darmadağın edecek kadar dehşetli, sonsuz bir cehennem de olabilir.
Bunu bilemiyorum.
Öyleyse bir sıkıntım olmamalı.
Öyleyse, rahat olmalıyım Fakat belki tüm insanların ulaştıkları doyum noktası budur.
Nasıl rüyalar görürler?
Para mı?
Sadece bu olmasa gerek.
İnsanların yemek için yaşadığını duymuştum ama para için yaşadıklarını hiç duymadım.
Yok, belki duruma göre… Hayır, bunu da bilemiyorum.
Sanki sadece ben farklıymışım gibi tedirginlik ve korkuya kapılıyorum.
Çevremdekilerle neredeyse hiç konuşamıyorum.
Neyi, nasıl söylemeliyim, bilemiyorum."
Muito, muito bom! O interior de um homem morto para a humanidade dos outros, muito consciente da sua própria ausência de humanidade e capacidade de empatizar e ser digno. Dito de outra forma: um homem que apenas 'é', apenas vive, tenta ser o que os outros esperam que seja sempre sem sucesso, nada faz, nada consegue porque para nada tem vontade a não ser aniquilar-se, anulando-se mais e mais até à abjecção completa e à morte.Impressionante! Lê-se com um constante nó no estômago.
Caught between the past and the present a young man (Oba Yozo) finds that he is becoming more and more alienated from society and any sort of future. His decent into existential crisis is the reason why this book is so often compared to The Stranger by Albert Camus.
Second Review [3.75 stars]Keenly interested in a column in a Thai newspaper dated November 5th, 2017 showing a book cover of a translated novel in Thai titled สูญสินความเปนคน, I recalled reading this book No Longer Human last year and it has roughly similar meaning as compared with the Thai title. Incidentally, I need time to have a look at the Thai version since, I think, it's interesting to read and compare the Thai version translated from Japanese into Thai as a second language (L2) with the
Second Review [3.75 stars]Keenly interested in a column in a Thai newspaper dated November 5th, 2017 showing a book cover of a translated novel in Thai titled สูญสิ้นความเป็นคน, I recalled reading this book No Longer Human last year and it has roughly similar meaning as compared with the Thai title.
. .First Review [3 stars]Reading this novel “No Longer Human” by Osamu Dazai, another fine translation by Donald Keene, is quite similar to his “The Setting Sun” which I read with dubious enjoyment in 2013.
İplikle bile yaralanırlar.* Birlikte aşk intiharına kalkıştığım kadının ismini bile unutacak biriyim.* Kendimin gerçek, suskun ve karanlık halimi olduğu gibi sergileyerek, sessizce içkimi içtim.Yozo adıyla aslında kendi yaşantısını anlatıyor Osamu Dazai.
Yaşamla ilgili (sosyolojik olarak) aklımıza gelip de dillendirmeye dahi cüret edemeyeceğimiz konularda net çözümlemeler yapıyor ve al işte diyor.
İnsanları şaklabanlıklarıyla güldürüyor ancak aslında böyle karanlık bir yüreği olduğunu düşünüyor.
Coşkunun belki de insanın karşısındakinin durumunu görmezden gelmek olduğu tespiti bence çoğumuzun aklımıza bile gelmeyecek türden.
İçki, sigara ve fahişeleri ise insanlardan korkusunu unutturabilecek çok iyi bir yol olduğunu anladığını söylüyor.
I read this book with a great empathy knowing that this is a semi-autobiographical novel of Osamu Dazai who later succeeded in committing suicide with his lover in a rain-swollen canal adjacent to his house.
Yozo is a depressed, self-destructive pornographic cartoonist who relies heavily on alcohol to numb his emotional pain.
His writing echoed my thoughts, thus his words will forever engrave into my psyche and I know that I will re-read this book more often than I should, only just to feel less excluded and alienated from the society.
The quiddity of No Longer Human was a game of antonyms. I found the novel heartbreaking because of the protagonist’s clarity; this isn’t a ready world for such vision.
