https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160317.The_Robber
Set in Switzerland in the early 1920s, he is forever moving between elation over this wonderful world, and despair over the fickle indifference of his great love, Edith.
This third-person narrative alternates with a first-person intrusive narrator who upbraids Edith for her indifference to The Robber and sounds off on any number of peripheral matters in a seemingly offhand if not random fashion.
As if that weren't enough, late in the text it is announced by the author that he and The Robber have teamed up to create the present text.
yazarın anlatımı, romanının karakteri ve okuyucusu ile ilişkisinin naifliği , seçtiği kelimelerle kurduğu cümlelerle hissettirdikleri..Bir de kitabın edebiyata kazandırılmasındaki emeği de unutmamak lazım.Çeviri ve baskı da güzel olmuş. Süprizi ve hevesi kaçıran önsöz de yok.Çok sevdiğiniz bir yemeğin verdiği doygunluk gibi.Caanım Walser
In other words it is one of the best detached representations of a mind unravelling represented by that very mind as it's unravelling.
Maybe unravelling isn't the word, maybe a mind spinning around itself so rapidly that it achieves a sort of escape velocity from itself.
Unravelling would imply that I accept the idea that Walser actually went crazy and didn't voluntarily admit himself to the sanatorium as a kind of career move.
His mind might've unravelled but he still held all the threads, and the pattern in his hands was all the prettier (sadly, tragically) for the unravelling.
'Robber' Walser has released his sentences like free-range chickens and upon this novel they roam every-which-way, free at last, free at last!
they proclaim, which just sounds like BOKBOK!
BOKBOK!
Nobody will know a thing of it if, just for shits and giggles, some pattern is scratched in the ground like...
well, like chickenscratch which is a dumb pun, but also an ambitious one for a chicken, only to be blown away by the Swiss-Alpine wind running its unctuous fingers indolently through the uncut pages of a novel nobody was meant to read.
Save the wind.
Save the chickens.
The reader must believe in the translator as much as the author if he is to continue to trudge along with any certainty that he isn't wasting what little time he has left to live.
I suppose it would be the relationships that both the author and the robber character (who may have been one and the same) had with all the different men and women making their way across and down each page.
Don't we all read books, magazines, and articles in order to learn something about the world, ourselves and others, or to discover that we are not alone, that somebody else might think like we do?
Dolayısıyla zayıflar genellikle güçlü, kızgınlar neşeli, aşağılanmışlar gururlui kibirliler mütevazı davranış sergilerler." Sf:22  "Senin ve yeteneklerinin belki birini çok mutlu edebileceğini, sadece düşünmek için bile fazlasıyla üşengeçsin." Sf:24  "Bu kız onu bir cesede çeviriyordu ama daha önce hiç olmadığı kadar canlı bir cesede." Sf:33  "İyiler daima kötülerin ve düşüncesizlerin bıraktıkları kırıntılarla mı beslenmek zorundadırlar?" Sf:75   "Kimse bir başkasının kutsalı olmaktan hoşlanmaz, aksi takdirde bir imgeye dönüşmek zorunda kalır." Sf:83  "Davranışlarımıza çelişkilerin, ruhsal çalkantıların, asil korkuların gölgesi düştüğü zaman mı ortaya çıkar en güzel, en görülmeye değer halimiz?
Dağınıklık içinde en hakiki, belirsizlik içinde en berrak, kararsızlık içinde en emin olduğumuz doğru mudur?" Sf:114  "Sizinle evlenmek istiyorum, çünkü size acıyorum." Sf:116  "Aşk, inanç ve umut topraklarıyla sadece sınır komşusu olan başlı başına bir krallıktır.
Walser'a mikrogram tekniğiyle bir hayran mektubu yazacağım.
Mijn recensie op THE DREAM LIFE OF BALSO SNELL staat hier: https://thedreamlifeofbalsosnell.tumb...
If you are fond of pleasure postponed, of insertions, digressions, concealment—and who is not?—this maze will amaze you.- William H. Gass Gass's comments about Walser's The Robber are spot-on: the novel is certainly a maze, "an unsolvable riddle" as Walser describes the Robber's beloved Edith's lips. The last novel that Walser wrote, The Robber was long left untranslated because it was found in its microscript form, a miniaturized version of Kurrent script which Walser used for his manuscripts
The last novel that Walser wrote, The Robber was long left untranslated because it was found in its microscript form, a miniaturized version of Kurrent script which Walser used for his manuscripts from about 1917 onward and which he would then transcribe into longhand German soon after.
However, with that said, due to the diversionary tactics employed by Walser in this novel and the authorial interjections of his narrator, The Robber is also about the failure that meets anyone seeking truth or the depiction of truth in art.
This is perhaps a secret of quality literature, in other words, the writing process must work on impulse.Truth is, no-one embodies that credo like Robert Walser.
The Robber, like all his late-period work, is both the transcript of this battle and the investigation of what happens to a personality when some other part of the self takes that 'step back' and contemplates it.
Like all 'high modernist masterpieces', The Robber is difficult, uneven, at times near-infuriating.
An inverted Unnamable, The Robber takes everything that is heavy and dolorous in Beckett and transposes it into the realm of birdsong.
Este libro, encima, es un experimento o más bien un juego o un chiste interno, no estaba destinado a publicarse, lo que lo hace realmente muy gracioso.
Ese tono burlón y ligero que tiene siempre (burlón y ligero pero para nada superficial) acá está multiplicado, como liberado.
De las muchas frases que subrayé quiero citar una que hace referencia a un gesto del bandido pero que parece que habla en realidad del estilo del capo de Walser: "le tributó un homenaje de respeto y se inclinó con una elegancia de la que, por supuesto, no pudo por menos de reírse en su interior".
Reading The Robber is like listening to your delightfully drunk father trying to tell you a story.
Robert Walser is perhaps more well-known for his novel Jakob Von Gunten, which was made into a film called Institute Benjamenta, or This Dream People Call Human Life.
Walser wrote the book in what is called miscroscript.
He also wrote a story, a sort of novella, called The Walk.
The Robber might be the best of his novels.
It is often said that Walser is The Robber; this claim is given weight in some way.
Is The Robber the funniest novel ever written?
Çok zorlayıcı öte yandan çok da ilginç bir anlatım tekniği var.
Bu duruma alışmak okuyucu için zor olsa da, yazar açısından başka avantajları var tabi.Haydut bambaşka bir kitap.
Kıvırcık ressam Bob Ross'un resimleri gibi bir kitap.
cümlelerle başka bir şeyler anlatmaya başlıyor.
"Belki burada da mutlu bir meşe vardır." Zaten belli bir süre sonra siz de, verilen sözleri takip etmeyi bırakıyorsunuz.Sözleriyle önce belirsiz bir resim çiziyor, fotoğrafçılıktaki "beni öne al, arka bulanık olsun" tekniği olarak da görebiliriz aslında bunu.
Özetle toplumun değerleri ve bu değerleri kabul etmeyenlere reva görülenler.Sonuç: Bulanık, bambaşka ama çok güzel bir toplum resmi; Haydut.
Waarbij hij soms inderdaad veel later terugkomt op wat hij eerder vertelde, maar dan wel op verrassend associatieve wijze, en bovendien komt hij er heel vaak ook niet op terug.Fascinerend aan de eerdere boeken van Walser vond ik de humoreske wanhoop, de combinatie van enorme zwaarmoedigheid en aanstekelijke vederlichtheid, de even treurige als opmonterende "innere Emigration" van de steeds kinderlijke en kleine verteller die alleen in de onderste regionen wil wonen, en die zich niet kan of wil voegen in de wereld en de conventies en ambities van de volwassenen.
Walser es el Cacho Garay de la literatura, o sea un tipo que te cuenta un chiste serio, sin mover un músculo.
Cuánto lo siento"."Para poder amar, hay que hacer todo lo posible por no amar.
Para hallar un profundo respeto, hay que mostrarse irrespetuoso durante cierto tiempo, entonces aparecerá la necesidad de respetar.
Intenten seguirlos no ya por obediencia sino para su contento y provecho, pues uno da consejos para hacer feliz a la gente"."Una pluma prefiere escribir algo improcedente a tener que descansar siquiera un instante.
Tal vez sea éste uno de los secretos de la mejor escritura: hay que escribir según el impulso.
Na de eerste drie bladzijden gelezen te hebben, begon ik terug opnieuw want ik dacht dat ik niet aandachtig genoeg was geweest... Om tot de vaststelling te komen dat ik best wel aandachtig genoeg was en me niet moest verzetten maar me overgeven aan dit wonderlijke boek. Aantrekken en afstoten, je voortdurend op het verkeerde been zetten, je weet soms echt niet wat je leest. Dit is tot nu toe, het meest bizarre en bijzondere boek dat ik ooit gelezen heb.
this is probably, no, truly, the most insane post-modern book ever written.
It was written in micro-script (with a fat, unsharpened pencil so the myth goes) while he was in a mental hospital (but i don't think he was really crazy - just depressed).
It took decades for scholars to figure out the writing.
However, this is the most difficult read ever.
I swear it goes from First-person narrative switching to third-person omniscient, then to whatever the actual author is up to - and back again.
very difficult - but nothing has every been written like it since.
I love Walser's writing SOOOO much!!
There is no room for complacency; Walser is always throwing curves.
Ostensibly the story of a romance, The Robber is in reality made up mostly of tangents that can drive you mad if you let them.
Many times I picked up the book & had no recollection of what was going on.
Because NOTHING is going on!!
The main thrust of the "story" is constantly being abandoned.
I recognize in Walser a fellow subversive, one who cares nothing for convention, and is so playful & lighthearted about it that he can't help but charm & bewitch the reader (this reader anyway).

3,5"Røveren kom nu til et ikke-eksisterende gammelt hus, eller rettere sagt, til et gammelt hus, som man havde revet ned på grund af alderdom og som ikke lå der mere, idet det var holdt op med at gøre sig bemærket. Han kom altså rent ud sagt til et sted, hvor der havde ligget et hus engang. De omsvøb jeg gør her har til formål at fylde tiden ud, for jeg er nødt til at få lavet en bog af et vist omfang, eftersom jeg ellers vil blive endnu dybere foragtet end jeg allerede er."
Me esperaba más de este obra. Los experimentos literarios son arriesgados y no dejan a nadie indiferente. También corren el riesgo de provocar una indigestión.Para mí... Obra inferior a "El Paseo" o su gran "Jakob von Gunten"
De rover van Robert Walser is geen alledaagse roman. Het leest niet altijd makkelijk, hij springt van de hak op de tak, hij doet beloften en komt ze doodleuk niet na. Het is wel creatief, hij speelt een fascinerend spel met zichzelf, de hoofdpersoon en de lezer, hij heeft geregeld "last" van ironie en zelfspot en zet je soms ook aan het denken. Prachtige vertaling van Machteld Bokhove.De volledige recensie: https://jkleest.nl/2018/10/de-rover-r...
Inside Walser's heartrending Romantic prose his ever-active eternal spirit takes on alarming fleshly precedence though still omnipotent enough to take over the world dressed in cool sunglasses shading that evil eye; in luminous gowns made of 'white magical' tissue paper, all the better equipped to wipe away tears at the same time as reading.
If you read only one writer or one book in all of Earthly existence, let it be by Robert Walser, a humble man with an inborn pride of thieves; who takes from his own rich Heart and gives Poetic alms to those poorer in spirit or in need of fellow grievance, commiseration, companionship, or simple celebration before those horrid if 'entertaining thoughts of suicide' are finally exorcised from the Book of Life.
With his slim novel The Robber, Robert Walser reached the pinnacle of his experiments in portraying a certain type of character in his fiction. To assign this type a single defining term, such as flâneur, dreamer, drifter, or perhaps lost soul, reduces the scale of Walser’s literary accomplishments. For this character, fine-tuned over the course of four novels (those extant of the author’s self-reported nine completed) and countless of his “little prose pieces,” is far too complex and ever-changing to fit within the narrow limits of a label.Full review here.
Hay frases, párrafos enteros, que son deslumbrantes. Las aventuras del bandido son un breve hilo conductor entre reflexiones, recursos estilísticos y malabarismos con el lenguaje. Una auténtica sorpresa y una verdadera delicia.
Robert Walser is a magician; I could read this book again and again and I'd never be able to summarize it. The book is almost unquotable! Like a good conversation, recollections and anecdotes come rolling through the narration with an easy charm, half-forgetting its destination along the way.
Beautiful, hilarious, strange, in places disturbing, sui generis --and almost lost forever, having been written in "microscript" during Walser's long decades confined to an insane asylum.
"Читання Розбійника - захоплює так, наче слухаєш розповідь твого інтелігентного батька на підпитку".
Непередбачувані, інколи геть божевільні метафори, які не мають нічого спільного з текстом і контекстом книги і все одно заворожують.
Вони могли б існувати як окремі історії й світи-книги, але п'яному (?) нарратору ніколи їх далі, розвивати.
Він і так уже відволікся, а ще ж треба розповісти про...
Хай дехто шукає за тим сюжет і фабулу, але чи це так уже й важливо?
Ну гаразд, щось узагальнююче, яке утім, нічого не скаже путтєвого про книгу.
Чиста насолода від необрамленого, але витонченого письма й потоку думок.
These authors are, after all, the ancestors and progeny of Walser.
The author's brother illustrated the cover art and Walser's autobiographical story and attitude are imbedded on every page--his contempt for all things nice, appropriate, refined, solid, buttoned-up, courteous, or intelligible.
While Walser's on origins remain opaque in his writing, the observations and criticisms of middle-class propriety is a red thread throughout the book.
The style is the story as the narrator's mask slips between storytelling about "The Robber" with his stolen love, Edith, and the person writing the tale.
"Edith loves him.
Habiendo terminado de leer El Bandido de Walser me pregunto si fue una decisión acertada empezar mi acercamiento al autor con este libro.
El Bandido es un libro lento de leer, está lleno de reflexiones que se tornan densas por momentos y que incluso pueden ser incomprendidas por el lector, se dejan muchos detalles al aire y jamás se vuelven a tocar, se pierde varias veces la claridad con respecto a quién es el que habla y de quien se habla e incluso, suele hablar de tantas cosas a la vez que cuesta seguir el hilo de la obra.
