https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6216.The_Wife
This is the second book of the Kristin Lavransdatter trilogy. In my review of the  The Wreath , the first book of the trilogy, I indicated I didn't feel optimistic about the marriage that took place at the end of the first book. This second book of the trilogy focuses on their married life (about 16 years covered by this book) during which they have seven children. The husband ended up not being as bad as I had feared. Based on fourteenth century expectations he could be rated as a mostly good h
This is the second book of the Kristin Lavransdatter trilogy.
, the first book of the trilogy, I indicated I didn't feel optimistic about the marriage that took place at the end of the first book.
Based on fourteenth century expectations he could be rated as a mostly good husband, but certainly not perfect.As a matter of fact the husband ends up taking some very reckless action near the end of the book that causes him to be placed in prison by the king.
The same can be said for the death of Kristin's father near the end of the book.
1928 yılında nobel' i alan bu Norveçli kadın yazarın sanırım ülkemizde yayınlanmış tek kitabı. O da Kristin Lavrandsdatter üçlemesinin 2. kitabı. Kitap Kristin adlı bir kızın hayatını anlatırken aslında geri planda Norveç tarihi hakkında çok şey söylüyor. keşke olsa keşke bilinse en azından bari bu üçlemenin diğer kitaplarını okuyabilsek.
Kristin Lavransdatter 2: Husfrue=The Wife (Kristin Lavransdatter #2), Sigrid Undset
Probably because as Kristin grows up and takes on the responsibility of being mistress of the Husaby estate we learn more about the day to day life of those times in a way that we really couldn't when she was a young girl and just running around deciding who she was going to marry.Kristin is a bit of a contradictory character.
Kristin paid absolutely no attention, even with all of the repeated meetings in Husaby and pretty treasonous talk going on right under her nose.
3.5 stars I think I prefer the first book of the trilogy because I got easily bored with some of the more religious passages in this book, which are quite many.
It's rather ugly of her to throw her past Erlend's face and blame him for her follies as a young maiden, as if she wasn't an active participant.
So, needless to say, the marriage is kind of rocky at times, and at one points functions best when Erlend is far away.
The second book in the Kristin Lavransdatter series somehow reappeared in my life several months after I finished the first one, which I had loved.
This tale is set in medieval Norway, which was united and relatively prosperous and had turned to Christianity recently enough that the old gods still held some sway here and there.
Kristin is now married to a flawed man, but they love each other and raise 6 boys.
By having such convincing emotional relationships set in medieval Norway, I was reminded that people have always been people, and their loves and lusts and goals and frustrations are so much like ours today.
Нет, почему уже два тома позади(
It was interesting to learn so much more about Kristin's parents and their relationship, and to watch Kristin grow to understand more about them.
As we mature we are increasingly (hopefully!) able to see others apart from their relationship to ourselves and their importance to ourselves.
Through the great darkness that would come, she saw the gleam of another, gentler sun, and she sensed the fragrance of the herbs in the garden at world's end."This captures so beautifully Ragnfrid's experience and inner life at this exact moment in her story.
It's not hard to see why/how Kristin Lavransdatter (the trilogy) won the 1928 Nobel Prize for Literature.
This saga is amazing in so many respects: authentic attention to detail, moving narrative and deep insight into the human psyche.
I am longing for someone who has read the book, to discuss it with me.
The author has done a phenomenal job presenting the slower-paced, farming-based, medieval life, centered on traditional values marked by a calendar of saint's days.
I did not want to put this book down.
Going immediately to start the final book in the triology.
This book covers in great detail the Norway of the 14th century.
Their love is apparent even though they are both flawed.The funeral preparation for Kristin's father was a strange highlight.As in the first book, there were long sections of dialogue or internal thoughts mainly from Kristin and Erlend.
However for me, there was a bit too much repetition covering their regrets on how they were married.Nonetheless, the characters remain human, the rules and laws covering behaviour and allegiances were interesting, the power of the Church and religion were covered respectably while Norway comes out of it as a fairly mature and structured country for the Middle Ages.
What a nightmare. I totally understand showing the bad things you reap when you make awful decisions, but it's hard to read a whole book where nothing good happens. At the point where Kristin is blaming herself for her husband's affair, I became so angry I had to skim the last 100 pages. I have no idea why she loves Ereland at this point, and even less of a clue as to why she believes he loves her. No interest in reading the third book.....
En kamp å komme seg gjennom. Tok 7 måneder for en grunn...
3.5 starsI expected to like this volume even more than the previous one, because in general I prefer content I’ve seen less often, and the story of a woman making her way as a wife and mother is much less common in my reading than the story of her falling in love and trying to avoid arranged marriage.
The Wreath has its almost melodramatic moments, but it definitely kept me interested, while The Wife – covering about 15 years of Kristin’s married life – slows that down.
Somewhat to my surprise, I finished this, part 2 of "Kristin Lavransdatter".
Surprised, because in one way it's chick-lit -- 1920s mediaeval Norwegian chick-lit.
I didn't know I cared, or that I cd be interested in the life story of a nice girl who stands by her man no matter what.
The "what" gets quite exciting there, for a bit, but then we're back to life on the farm, noting with amazement that bivouacking in a hole in the snow was quite the thing to break a journey, and enjoying lyrical descriptions of the Norwegian landscape in all its variety.
This is the second book in the trilogy.I feel that Undset has done a good job of immersing the reader in the life of people in this time period, be it poor or rich.
Definitely 'calamitous' times.Religion was a staff to people then when life was so fragile and insecure.
I believe it makes sense that the people would find solace from this.Kristin feels deeply that she let down her father by her actions in book 1.
A regency ensued and when Magnus claimed to come into his majority at the age of 15.
Kaut kas grāmatā sāka notikt tik uz beigu pusi.
Mani ļoti pārsteidza, ka grāmatā aprakstītais laiks izrādās ir 13.-14.gs.mija.
Tajā laikā zemgaļi vēl cīnījās pret krustnešiem.
Man likās, ka tajā laikā skandināvijā jābūt vēl vikingu laikam.
Bet grāmatā viņi visi jau ir TIK ticīgi, tik reliģiozi, tik konvertēti, ka līdz pat 2.grāmatas vidum man likās, ka lasu par kādu 15.-16.gadsimtu.
Interesanti bija lasīt, ka viņi tic ne tik daudz lielajam Dievam vai Jēzum, vai Marijai, bet gan Sv. Ūlafam, Sv. Ursulai un vēl visvisādiem vietējiem svētajiem.
Kā grāmatā aprakstīts- norvēģiem bija gan savs karalis, gan sava aristokrātija, gan sava vidusšķira.
The second book of this medieval Norwegian trilogy hit a level of depth that the first just couldn’t (probably because it involved more death and the fruit of sin, and therefore powerful joy, hope, and love).
While the disgusting and fearful idolatries of the Catholic tradition run rampant in this volume in a way more tangible than in the first book, the heart-breaking beauty of the Catholic value of mystery, holiness, and sacrament is also more tangible as you experience Kristin’s trials with her.
I’m now especially excited for the last book, which I’ve heard is the best.
Descriptions are so vivid, of the surroundings, of the people and their thoughts, and of relationships.
Following Kristin through the time of raising her children and dealing with Erlend’s absence from Husaby, but also having admiration for his bravery and leadership.Kristin has to consider the consequences of the choices she has made as they affect her and her children, but also dealings with properties and finally with her relationship with Simon Darre after he marries her sister.This novel was a grand continuation of the story of Kristin Lavransdatter’s life and it is rich, complex, and beautiful!Highly recommended!
I truly enjoy Undset's style of writing and the world she describes/has created. The characters are wonderful. I liked book one even better than this one, but some of that is Kristin's aging and her worldview is changing. Be careful what you wish for, you just might get it. And often when we get what we want, it turns out not to be what we really wanted.
Kristin's dysfunction started to drive me crazy in this book. She absolutely will not let anything go. She remembers every single misdeed ever done to her by Erlend. She remembers her own sins ad nauseam, apparently unable to move forward. It negatively impacts her marriage, and even her own ability to thrive.I definitely need a break from these people before I embark on book 3.
I found this more enjoyable than the first book, but not enough to go on to the final book in the trilogy.
The moths and maggots in the wool, the bugs steamed from the sleeping furs, the worm-infested dry winter rations will put even the most reluctant time-traveler in an unromanticized Middle Ages.However, I found this volume to be lower on story and detail than The Wreath, and instead we get much of Kristin's perpetual Catholic guilt over the Fruit of her Sin (her first child is born six months after the wedding, Zounds!) She and her husband spend most of the book at passive-aggressive odds with one another, but it takes a good 300+ pages for anything to come of this.
We see Kristin enter her bridal home, Husaby, give birth to all seven of her sons and finally, fight for Erlend's freedom.In The Wife, there were fewer of the beautiful descriptions of the landscape which I so enjoyed.
Upon entering Husaby, it is very clear to Kristin that it never truly had a mistress.
It felt like the reader was meant to develop deeper relationships with the Kristin and Erlend.
He is the only one with clear intentions and genuine emotions.Toward the end of the book, Kristin really devotes herself to Erlend and getting him back, even after he was unfaithful to her.
I've said it before and I'll say it again, I really dont like books in series, at least not lately.
I think its far better to just leave it as one book, though I guess it depends on the author.
Not very relatable to a 16 year old girl like me, but I suppose these books are supposed to be read at different points in ones life.
I feel like more stuff happened in that one as well.
Now I think I shall take a break by reading some very political, very dark, very English, and very sci fi novels.
I need a break before the last book.
But it becomes very heavy-handed as the reader is subjected repeatedly to Kristin's self-flagellation throughout the book while no blame ever seems to fall upon Erlend.
Not only has Erlend changed, but Kristin, too.
The book reads like a funeral dirge.
I have to note that other reviews I've read have complained about this particular translation.
While the different translators used for books one and two might play a part in such a disappointing outcome, it cannot bear all the blame.
And the storyline of Kristin's continual self-recrimination and Erlend's crowning glory at the end was the real negative here.
Sigrid Undset ably uses historical detail and compelling characters to create a detailed and thoroughly-readable account of mediaeval Norway - all of which is rendered into English by the excellent translation by Tiina Nunnally.
The dialogue between Kristin and Saint Olav, for example, while sometimes confusing, ensures the reader gains an important insight into the religious and personal life of Kristin Lavransdatter, and again highlights the importance of Christianity in both the lives of the mediaeval people and in the life of Undset herself.
This is another excellent novel by Undset and for its historical, religious, and personal insights into the daily lives of mediaeval Norway is rightly treasured and merits many readings.
It is a little humbling to do any in-depth review of a book that won the Nobel Prize, but suffice it to say that this novel is a piece of art. The characters are beautiful and intricate and rather uniquely harken to real life, where we have wells of true virtue that are alternately set on display in certain circumstances and obscured by our faults in others. I am excited for the last book of the trilogy.
She feels guilt and shame for sleeping with Erland before their marriage and in hurting her father with her confession and thanklessness.
She turns to religion to assuage her guilt and slowly becomes bitter towards Erland whilst, ironically, bearing 7 sons for him.
The denouement of this cauldron ends in Erland having a brief affair which leads to his imprisonment for over a year.
Kristin and Erland find their relationship back on track after 13 years of marriage.Kristin ostensibly is friendly enough to people on her manor but seems to rely heavily on others to help her - particularly the menfolk - and little thanks do they get in return.
The second of a three-book series.
This one is similar to the first.
Mostly discusses the Catholic church and its hold on the people, as well as bringing political issues into play.
I am less and less enamored with the protagonist, Kristen Lavransdatter, as the series progresses.
I understand that Undset is trying to write believeable characters that have good and bad qualities, but Kristen doesn't come across as believable to me.
She jumps from being unrealistically smitten with her husband to hating him.
This back and forth, back and forth behavior is annoying.
She come across as unstable.Her husband is static.
I thoroughly enjoyed the second book on the life of Kristin Lavransdatter.
In this book we learn more about Kristin's life as wife and mother.
She now has 6 boys to care for and she manages the Husaby estates while her husband is off traveling throughout Norway.
In this book we are made aware of the troubles she has relating with her past transgressions before her marriage, her relations to religious life, and everyday life in 14th Century Norway.
The latter half of the book deals with the plot to overthrow King Magnus, Erlend's imprisonment and Simon's intervention to save Erllend's life.
