https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/616302.The_Living_Shadow
When listeners of the program began asking at newsstands for copies of the Shadow detective magazine, Street & Smith decided to create a magazine based around The Shadow and hired Gibson to create a character concept to fit the name and voice and write a story featuring him.
(please do not read any older copies of the Tarzan novels, your feeling might get hurt),I had never read some of the earlier Shadow novels and decided that the time has come.
At this point in the series, a relative everyman Harry Vincent is the narrator and protagonist, with The Shadow stepping in as a plot driver and occasional deus ex machina.
This mockery of a disguise works so well that it not only fools the protagonist, but also the near-supernaturally effective investigator The Shadow and every "Chinaman" who makes an appearance (hide spoiler)].
And don't get me started on the "sho' 'nuff" driver, the only black man to appear in the book.
I guess I shouldn't be too hard on the author; nobody's actually painted as lazy, shiftless, stupid, inscrutable or whatever else solely due to their race.
The Shadow seems more like a subtle force of nature than man, seemingly appearing out of actual shadows and taking on many disguises. As pulp fiction, this is great stuff. Remember, though, that this was written in the early 1930s, so be prepared for some racial stereotypes of certain Chinese, and one African American, characters. But, if you can put that aside and chalk it up to the mindset of the times, this is a great, engaging and faced-paced story that will sweep you along.
For a short book, it took forever to read. This is the first Shadow story, and unlike the first Tarzan story, or the first Zorro story, it’s crap. There are some good bits, but the juice is not worth the squeeze. Recommended to Shadow enthusiasts only.
The first The Shadow tale is not a typical hero or superhero story. The Shadow himself is rarely seen and no hint of his identity is given, he's a mastermind, a mystery lurking in... the shadows. Instead, the story follows Harry Vincent, a man The Shadow saves from suicide and recruits as his agent. Focus shifts also to various participants in the murder/theft mystery and to various intervening subjects who prove to be The Shadow in disguise. The Shadow is very much like Fantomas here, a myster
Instead, the story follows Harry Vincent, a man The Shadow saves from suicide and recruits as his agent.
The Shadow is very much like Fantomas here, a mystery to all and a master of disguise, working through agents or acting in person.
Harry Vincent and friends never learn who The Shadow really is, so of course I'm itching to read book 2, “The Black Master”, and find out myself (wealthy-young man-about-town, Lamont Cranston?).
There is what might be termed a plot-hole in that the police concerned with the principal crime, the murder of a wealthy man by a thief, never seem to examine the potential suspects.
I don't know. Didn't care that much for it. I've never had the faintest urge to read another in the series. I much prefer the "Spider" books by Norvell Page.
Indeed, much of the tension is plot-driven, and interpreted through the narrative lens of Harry Vincent's experiences.Nevertheless, the surprising finale, involving an unmasking of the criminal Wang Foo and revelation that he is not a Chinese businessman, but instead a white criminal mastermind dressing in yellowface to avoid police suspicion, opens up some interesting conversations about the treatment of race in similar stories, and even about the genre of literature The Shadow seemed to have a hand in creating.
La Sombra es un personaje peculiar que combate el crimen con la ayuda indispensable de un grupo inagotable de aliados.
De hecho, el protagonista en sí apenas aparece en la novela, poco sabemos de él si exceptuamos su inquietante silueta y su desquiciante carcajada.Esta es la primera novela de una larga serie donde el misterio y el espionaje son cada vez más exagerados y sorprendentes.
todo servido con un estilo directo de capítulos cortos centrados en algún personaje de la saga.Quizá demasiado artificioso para los fans de las novelas de crimen más sesudas, pero un soplo de aire fresco para quien quiere una lectura fácil y satisfactoria.
It’s a good introduction to the legendary pulp character.
Harry Vincent, The Shadow’s newest agent, is the main character here, leaving The Shadow himself to be a cypher.
He’s kept in the dark (literally, most of the time) as this mysterious figure beyond comprehension, which is how he must seem to his agents and the criminals he destroys.
Through Harry we get hints about how he operates and what kind of adventures he gets into.
It’s not nearly as thrilling as some of Norvell Page’s The Spider stories, but this was something new and unique in its time.
It’s an enjoyable read and leaves you wanting more.
It's hard to judge a book written nearly a century ago.
As other reviews here have noted, this was derived from a radio show and the overlap shows in the announced fashion of the prose.
It's quite predictable, often ridiculous and loaded with ex machina.
But this is by no means what many current readers would regard a good book.
It's also not as good as Doc Savage's debut and a far cry from the excellent original Conan stories.
But given its origins, those comparisons are not fair.
A great little dash back to the old pulp days. Like Doc Savage and other bigger than life characters that for 10 cents could keep you month after month part of strange and exotic adventures, the Shadow fought crime with a vengeance. Unlike some he would often shoot first and let the bad guys pay the full price for their crimes.
The ending was a little anti-climactic, and the plot for the first half really didn't go anywhere, but otherwise the story was enjoyable.
Then Harry poses as a cab driver and nearly gets himself in more trouble and again the Shadow rescues him.We also get to see a little about how the Shadow thinks and works when he takes a report from Fellows, cuts it into sections, rearranges those and adds his own words, forming a complete story of what actually happened in the robbery.The story is really good with the characters well done and interesting (including the villains), the Shadow mysterious and the mystery itself rather complex.
A very, very good introduction to the adventures of the Shadow.One additional note; the 1938 movie, International Crime, seemed to be based on perhaps one single page of the novel in which the Shadows use of a radio program is revealed.
Then Harry poses as a cab driver and nearly gets himself in more trouble and again the Shadow rescues him.We also get to see a little about how the Shadow thinks and works when he takes a report from Fellows, cuts it into sections, rearranges those and adds his own words, forming a complete story of what actually happened in the robbery.The story is really good with the characters well done and interesting (including the villains), the Shadow mysterious and the mystery itself rather complex.
A very, very good introduction to the adventures of the Shadow.One additional note; the 1938 movie, International Crime, seemed to be based on perhaps one single page of the novel in which the Shadows use of a radio program is revealed.
At the time, I didn't know there were books, otherwise would have read them.
I did try the radio dramas, but they didn't work for me at the time, despite the fact that as a teenager, my evening sometimes consisted of listening to audio dramas.At any rate, I've always wanted more Shadow, because let's face it.
Give this book a try, it's a quick read and a page turned.
It's better than the Spider novel I read in a lot of ways, though that was enjoyable as a surreal, insane tale.
Don't expect a lot of the Shadow like the movie or probably later books.
It focuses less on the Shadow and more on his agent Harry Vincent who is recruited in this book and does a lot of the heavy lifting in terms of story, and every chapter or so he gets into trouble and the Shadow rescues him.
The Shadow does do most of the work in terms of saving people and solving the mystery but we never get to really see the story from his POV.
Mostly it is fun to see how this Pulp character was established and see some of the narrative tricks Gibson uses that would becomes staples in later stories.
This is the first novel in the long-running series of pulps starring The Shadow.
I'd read it when it was reprinted in 1969 in a Bantam paperback edition, but it's been 47 years since then, and I only remembered dimly a couple of scenes.
I read a lot of Shadow novels back in the day.
I tell you, it's just plain fun to read these books after all these years, and now that I've found a reasonably priced source for some of these paperbacks, I may go back for more.
first book in the series, mostly setting up major players and background (Burbank, Harry Vincent etc).
The protagonist here is Harry Vincent, and not the shadow.
This is early days in the series and for the next few books Harry Vincent plays the main role, its not until later where we get more of the Shadow in the lead.
I suppose I was only familiar with it myself because I grew up watching all those old black and white movies, like the Saint and Falcon series.
If your familiar with the Radio Show or even the Movie from the 90's, you might like the pulps (the movie got so much wrong though.
So where does this book really rate.
If it was a new book today, it would probably rate three stars, orpossibly even two.
I read the first two or three Shadow books back when I was in High School.
I can only remember with detail the beginning of the first book, the rescue of a potential suicide by the Shadow, who then turned that man into one of his agents.
These books are definitely dated.
It is VERY POLITICALLY INCORRECT today.
The characters are turly either completely evil or completely good, except for the Shadow of course.
When you get down to it characters like Fantomas, Arsene Lupin, and America's pulp creation The Shadow are terrorists.
They all work in the shadows and their actual identities are consistently being changed on a regular basis.This is the first book of the Shadow serires and I think it's quite a remarkable contribution to pulp literature.The Shadow has no fixed identity at this time.
It's a fascinating subculture of the criminal world and I strongly recommend this particular book.
The first book in The Shadow series is a lot of fun, and a real eye-opener to those who were only familiar with the radio and movie dramas.
The focus is on one of The Shadow's operatives, so everything we learn about the mysterious entity is filtered through that view.
I especially liked The Shadow having a number of manifestations...not just Lamont Cranston who avid fans connected as the only alter ego.Not unlike the Doc Savage books, this is pure pulp fiction.
However, unlike that series, The Shadow books tend to have a darker, more mysterious edge.
This is the first Shadow story, and it has a great opening, with suicidal Harry Vincent rescued by a mysterious figure and given new purpose as an agent of The Shadow.
I think maybe there's just not enough Shadow in it.In the early Shadow stories The Shadow is just a little bit too mysterious, only popping up at the most dramatic points, and then vanishing again immediately afterwards.
Harry Vincent is okay as a point of view character, but he's not really very interesting, and anyway, it's not him you read the book for.
I have decided to start reading The Shadow series.
This first story is a good crime story which moves along at a mostly rapid pace.
I was surprised to find that it was easy to slip into the time frame of the story.
There are several surprises along the way.
There seemed to be a few too many coincidences along the way, but it certainly made me want to continue reading the stories.There are definitely a couple of slow points in the story which seemed like filler, but I look forward to seeing how this series develops.
The book’s flaws are manifold, and include pointless scenes and padding to turn what would naturally be a novella into a novel. But the mystery of the Shadow and his agents creates interest, and so does the pulpy, sometimes fast paced story. On the basis of this book alone it is difficult to see why the Shadow series lasted so long, but Gibson sets up a world that can be developed later. Not as bad as expected.
The blew me away as a kid and still stands up today. Definitely pulp, but Grant has a fluid style that holds up. additionally, the character is among the most intriguing in the super hero genre. one of the earliest anti-heroes. predates comic book superheroes. this even predates the acclaimed radio show. it all starts here. And the cover art by Jim Steranko absolutely kills.
I really enjoyed this book. As a fan of the radio show, 1939 movie serial, & the 1994 movie I was eager to read this. I especially liked the fact that it kept The Shadow such s mystery (He had not yet taken on the identity of Lamont Cranston) & the story is told by one of his agents with The Shadow appearing out of nowhere when he needs to.
The story is a little "sketchy." The main character is H. Vincent - and not really The Shadow. It's action pulp. All of these facts now stated.... I quite enjoyed this. It's a fun treat to read the lingo from those days. The Shadow is very cool and mysterious, which was my minimum requirement for this novel. Recommend to: fans of Batman, Phantom, vintage crime, noir.
Early days of The Shadow, so he was still evolving as a character. Nicely gloomy atmosphere whenever he's around. Walter Gibson (the real name of the author) maintained the mystery around The Shadow very well. Good fun read. I've read quite a few Shadow books, but I've decided to start from the beginning this time around. Only about another 335 to go!
Why have I waited so long to atart reading this series? Dunno. But I enjoyed this opening adventure a great deal. And it has merely whet my appetite for more. I look forward to continuing the adventure!
A fun start to the longest running series of all time. I was familiar with the Shadow through old time radio, and it's interesting to see the roots of the series. I look forward to the next 324 (or so) entries.
