https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242472.The_Black_Swan
To take a very small instance, Taleb bases a short section of the book upon the idea that to be "hardened by the Gulag" means to become "harder" or "stronger" rather than its true meaning of someone who has become inured to certain difficulties, not necessarily stronger because of it.However, this along with other problems are mere quibbles relative to the strengths of this book (and, I think it's worth noting that many of the negative reviews on this site base their hostile reactions to Taleb on just such insignificant trifles.) The Black Swan deals with the fascinating topic of the nature uncertainty and approaches it from a variety of intellectual angles, mainly the psychological blocks that we are both born with and have created for ourselves that prevent our understanding of the improbable: the narrative fallacy and the problem of induction (the tenuous relationship of cause and effect); our reliance on flawed mathematical models; the expect problem.
This is a book that raises a number of very important questions, but chief among them is definitely the question of how the interplay between a good idea and an insufferable author combine to effect the reading experience?
He's contemptuous towards entire disciplines (economics, law, social science) without making much attempt to engage with the concepts he's critiquing beyond the broadest levels of generality.
He's hard to like.It's unfortunate, because at the core of all of the go-nowhere anecdotes and borderline psychobabble is a good analysis on how people are psychologically and socially ill-equipped to handle unexpected outlier events (which he persistently, desperately refers to as "Black Swans", one of approximately 3000 new bits of not-too-essential terminology he's trying to appropriate for himself) and can't learn from our mistakes.
The real summary of this book should be: Shit happens more often than you think.The author, Taleb, rails against economics, most philosophers, and the way we incorporate news to allow us to make sense of events and everyday happenings.
He wants us to unlearn the way we think and learn, while destroying the modern beliefs in statistics and at the same time eviscerating the nobel prize winners who got us to where we are today.While the author has valid points, his writing style oscillates between boring, repetitive, and just plain bad.
He looks to Poincare as a savior and steward of his profession while ignoring the unmarked graves of all the other 'thinking mathematicians' who failed miserably in their intuitive hand waving.For all of his experimental 'proof' offered in defense of claims about how we understand, learn and process things, NNT never gives more than one study as evidence (although he will claim, without a footnote or other reference) that many other studies have verified that particular claim.
While they both have us investigating our thinking, for Kahneman, it's to make us own up, while Taleb has more direct emphasis on avoiding disaster.He would like for us to realize our overuse of normal-curve thinking, which makes us minimize risk and have no expectations out of the ordinary: like the turkey whose experience all goes to show how human beings love him and care about him and prove it by feeding him--until Thanksgiving day arrives and he's dinner.The normal curve tells us that the further out from the mean we go, the rarity of unusual events rapidly increases.
And when the author of the bestseller writes another book, it'll get more attention than those who didn't write a bestseller.When we think normal curves apply but they don't, we are confusing what the world is like with how we would like it to be.
But "Black Swan" events (very rare, not even things we think about happening, and not linked to the factors that determine day to day market swings) do occur, they are of course unpredictable, and they can have massive effects.
Others, the real Black Swans, such as 9/11 and the derivatives bubble, have effects that play out over years.But really, other than as a cautionary tale for those whose job it is to predict (unpredictable) things on a daily basis, these observations probably don't surprise most people who have thought much about the nature of reality and our grasp of the future.
I trudged through this book because - well - everyone is reading it and enlightened people should know how to comment on it.
Now I can look down on all those people out there who aren't enlightened like Taleb.
And now, me.Taleb is actually on to something important if you can tolerate his self-importance enough to filter his verbage to get his good ideas.
But it really seems Taleb's main point is "everyone else is an idiot." It seems the details why are secondary to that point.I did find quite useful a good line of thought regarding the importance of narrative in grasping truth.
Other data are ignored or made to fit.
This review will be comprised of two parts: a review of the ideas presented and a review of the way in which it is written(A) The ideasThere is no question here, Taleb is an erudite and intelligent scholar.
However, anybody with half a background in statistics, chaos theory or the philosophy of science will have encountered most of the concepts in this book before and will have cogitated at length over them.
Still, Taleb's text acts both as a refresher course and a collection of intelligent new perspectives on the subject which make for a decent think-a-thon.
If you skipped your Systems, Statistics, or Random Variables classes in college, or if you think you know more than everyone else on Wall Street, then read this book.
To the rest of you: this book will reaffirm what you thought you knew when you were 5 or 6...with an updated vocabulary.
I put this book down after the first chapter, but thought I would give it another chance, that I was being unfair.
When I read the second chapter (which is a metaphor for what Taleb thinks is him) I puked in my shirt.
I stopped reading this because the author is so pompous and annoying.
He loves to use sarcastic quotes to criticize things like "prestigious" institutions (despite mentioning multiple times that he himself attended the prestigious Wharton School).
He also seems to be something of a failed/aspiring novelist, as he decides to make up the character of Yevgenia Krasnova, a fictional novelist whose book was a Black Swan, something that no one wanted to publish but then became a huge hit.
The publishing industry is littered with these people, it would be simple to use a real person.
These fictional characters could've been cut out entirely or replaced with real people and not affected the book at all.
نحن نعيش بمفاهيم (وبرمجة) تحاول اقناعنا بقدرتنا على التعامل مع عالم بقوانين ثابتة، عندما لا تكون هذه هي الحقيقة.
لأن البجعات السوداء، أو الحدث الاقل توقعا بل الذي يقع خارج نطاق كل احتمالاتنا يمكن ان يحدث (موجبا كان او سالبا).
هل تحتاج هذه الفكرة الى 600 صفحة لشرحها.
ولكنه ربما شعر بالحاجة الى كل هذا الكلام لأن ما يحاول تأكيده يقع بالتضاد مع برمجة حالية: اي تلك الفكرة القائلة ان بوسعنا بثقة وضع تقديرات صحيحة لما لا نعلم.
القسم الثالث كان اكثر تقنية وقد وضع نسيم ملاحظات تشير الى امكانية تجاوزه لغير المختصين او المهتمين.الكتاب يفتح الوعي على أفكار لم أنتبه لها مسبقا ويثير التأمل في ما يطرحه.
don't know more about their subject matter than the general population." Except when they do.* "Our minds do not seem made to think and introspect." Except when they do.* "Few reward acts of prevention." Except when they do.* "No technologies of note came from design and planning." Except when they do.* "The bell curve ignores large deviations, it cannot handle them." Except when used in statistics.* "Stories are far more potent than ideas." Except when they're not.* "Our world is dominated by the extreme, the unknown, and the very improbable." Except when it's not.* "Reality is not Mediocristan [Gaussian]." Except when it is.* "We tend to forget what we know." Except when we don't.* "There is no such animal as corroborative evidence." Except that there is.Straw man.To see this logical fallacy in action, simply reply "Speak for yourself, asshole!" to each.* "Platonicity is what makes us think we understand more than we actually do."* "People in the classroom ...
This is a pretty terrible book, and while it has one or two good ideas, they are better and more rigorously expressed in books like "Sway" or "The Drunkard's Walk" than they are in this shameless exercise in self promotion.The fact that the author displays a limited understanding of the topic, and tends to lump everything he doesn't understand into the same bucket would be forgivable from an author possessed of wit and charm.
If that's the case then it's probably a good read, but otherwise I really strongly endorse any other book on the topic.
مفهوم قوی سیاه این است که مردم را مجبور میسازد درباره ی ناشناخته ها و قدرت آنها تامل کنند.
تامل به معنای هالو نبودن نه شک گرایی افراطی و انفعال.قوی سیاه سه ویژگی دارد غیر منتظره است.پیامدش سنگین است.
ادعای قضیه این بود که نیایش شما را از غرق شدن نجات میدهد.
شخص بی دین پرسید: تمثال کسانی که نیایش کردند و غرق شدند کو؟ میتوان مشاهده‌گر سرسری را فریفت تا معجزه را باور کند.
Sometimes you can't predict when things happen. Sometimes past evidence does not necessarily predict future trends. I paraphrase David Mamet: Let me buy Nassim Taleb a pack of gum, he'll show you how to chew it.
Він натхненно, багатослівно і нестримно обсирає науковців, опонентів, статистів, трейдерів, нобелівський комітет, що дає премії не тим людям (не йому?), написав, що в Галілео Галілея не було глаз, наприклад і т.д.Автор дуже високо ставить широку ерудованість і забуває, що в сучасному світі неможливий другий Леонардо да Вінчі, наука стала надто об'ємна і складна.
Прийнамні, його ремарки про вимирання видів, і деякі умовиводи про літературу м'яко кажучи дивують.Мені б було цікавіше більше читати про його ідеї, приклади застосування різних практик, ніж детільні перекази дискусій на конференціях в стилі "А він мені шо!", "А я йому шо!".Загалом, попри цікаві ідеї та інформацію, під кінець читання стає уже тошно від його білого пальто.
Not as overbearingly arrogant as others claim; in fact, often very self depreciating.More seriously, his writing style is terribly confusing, made worse by my own unfamiliarity with the subject and his insistence on personal jargon standing in for concepts.
Very anectdotal as well as making use of "thought experiments" to illustrate concepts that could have done with more explanation and less story.
Yes, I get his point that stories help us learn, but I would argue that stories work best as analogies on the mythical or fable level, or when a single analogy perfectly illustrates an entire principle such as Scroedinger's cat.Update: cannot get through this muddled mess of a book.
Surrendering and returning to the library.
I only read the first 13 pages of this book, plus the prologue, but that was enough.
In the first few pages he name-drops people like Umberto Eco and Nabokov, tells us about people who were rather unknown five years ago (but forgets to tell us that they are still rather unknown now), and compares himself to people in history who are/were actually influential.
For a guy writing a book that claims "what we don't know is more important that we do know," he really wants the reader to know that he sure knows a whole lot.
Black Swan is easily one of the most challenging books I have read. Reading it felt like being part of a revolution. Difficult to comprehend during the first reading, it attacks the application of the Gaussian bell curve in Modern Portfolio Management Theory viciously and having read it a lot recently, it makes me feel like a fool. The book is a treasure trove if you are a quizzer. Contains a hell lot of names(philosophers, economists, mathematicians..). Makes you think hard and gives you a lot to build upon. Has invoked a strong urge to read more philosophy.
This book is a weird mix of novel ideas, bragging, and pseudo-science.Taleb makes a strong case for his theory of black swans.
Taleb fills the rest of the pages by bragging about his own success and ridiculing established philosophers, economists, and anyone else he can think of.
For example, on page 235 of the hardcover edition he writes: "Take a random sample of any two people in the U.S. population who jointly earn $1 million per annum ...
I stopped reading this book shortly after that page.
كل حدث في حياتنا له سبب ما ..
لا نريد ان نفاجأ بحدث يقلب حياتنا رأسا على عقب لكن هل نفلح في ذلك ..
في كتابه البجعة السوداء حاول نسيم طالب في حوالي 500 صفحه ايضاح ماهيه هذا الحدث وكيف ان تكهناتنا لن تمنع وقوعه ذلك اننا لا نلعب وفق قواعد اللعبه كما ينبغي حيث اننا جبلنا على التفكير النمطي فنحن وان كنا شكاكين الا ان شكنا ليس بالقدر الكافي الذي يمنع عنا وقوع مثل هذه الاحداث ..
اقيم الكتاب بثلاث نجمات فهو رغم كونه ممتع الا ان تشعب الاحداث وصعوبتها للقارئ العادي جعل خيوط كثيره تفلت مني خصوصا في المائه صفحة الاخيره
Black Swan, huge-impact improbable events (the success of google, attack of 9/11, invention of internet), shows that social sciences fail to predict various events (behaviors inculuded) by,and so far by merely , usingGaussian "bell curve" approach.
The use of mathematics in social sciences overestimates what we know (observed past events)and underestimates what we don't (probable future events): too little science papers succeeded to make (near) accurate predictions; and successful inventions are almost always accidental.
Thaleb proposed Mandelbrotian approach against Gaussian (to which detail i am not technically capable to comprehend).
To statistics-illiterate like me, Black Swan is highly persuasive.

نويسنده از محبوبترين اقتصاد دانهاى من ست. ديدش به اقتصاد و شيوه زندگى اش بسيار جذابه. اينكتاب مشهورترين كتاب نويسنده ست
Okay, let's see if I got it straight...An anti-academic academic weaves a non-narrative narrative about predicting the unpredictable into the theory that rigid theories are bad.Oh, and count on things you can't conceive of happening happening.Something like that.Taleb's observations on the expectations and biases we hold, especially when estimating risk or uncertainty, are pretty dead on.
He's almost certainly right that we over-apply the "bell curve" and other normalized frequency distributions, with the consequence of underestimating the probability of very rare events.But he's kind of a jerk about it.If you don't mind that kind of thing (I don't, really), then this is a pretty good read.
کتاب فوق العاده بود. بررسی نسبتا مفصلی رو در وبلاگم درموردش نوشتم:https://sadraa.me/%d9%86%d8%b3%db%8c%...همین قدر بگم که برای بار دوم خواهم خوندش. فقط در مورد ترجمه بگم که با توجه به این که متن انگلیسی ثقیله کار قابل قبولی انجام شده اما متاسفانه بعضی جاها مترجم برای واژه هایی که معادلهای خوب و معروف دارن دست به واژه سازی زده یا از واژه هایی استفاده کرده که برای مخاطب ممکنه آشنا نباشند. به هر حال. نسخهی انگلسیش رو هم باید خوند.
کتاب فوق‌ العاده بود. بررسی نسبتا مفصلی رو در وبلاگم درموردش نوشتم:https://sadraa.me/%d9%86%d8%b3%db%8c%...همین قدر بگم که برای بار دوم خواهم خوندش. فقط در مورد ترجمه بگم که با توجه به این که متن انگلیسی ثقیله کار قابل قبولی انجام شده اما متاسفانه بعضی جاها مترجم برای واژه هایی که معادلهای خوب و معروف دارن دست به واژه سازی زده یا از واژه هایی استفاده کرده که برای مخاطب ممکنه آشنا نباشند. به هر حال. نسخه‌ی انگلسیش رو هم باید خوند.
فكرة الكتاب تتمحور حول أن اعتقادنا بأن باستطاعتنا بشكل موثوق التكهن بالأحداث مبالغ فيه بشدة، وأن هذه المبالغة مدعومة من علماء رياضيات واحصاء ومن يساندهم مما يجعل الركون الى هذه الثقة أشد خطرا.
ونحن _عامة الناس _ نعتقد ان وضع معظم البيانات التي تحصلنا عليها تاريخيا ورسمها في منحنى بياني جرسي يتيح لنا التكهن بالمستقبل، في حين أن هذا المنحنى يسقط تماما بالتنبؤ بحدث غير متوقع لأن نسبة وقوعه تكون رقما صغير ويساره العديد من الأصفار.
يحاول نسيم أن يلفت انتباهنا أن الأحداث غير المتوقعة لا ينبغي أن نسقطها من حسابنا، بأن ننخدع بالمنحنى الجرسي، لأن آثارها مهولة وقد تكون مدمرة بشكل يجعل أمر تجاهلها ساذج وغير منطقي.
ada beberapa kalimatnya yang menggelitik maka tertarik deh.:D*sampe bab 1*Ide buku ini menarik.Black Swan adalah sebuah metafora yang pertama saya pahami dari kajian filsafat ilmu dulu sewaktu kuliah.
Tetapi sejauh mana kita berhasil menemukan iklan negatif, dari sekian yang sudah kita baca, "apa yang belum kita pahami?" Ini adalah bekal untuk mencari titik ekstrim pengetahuan, black swan dalam diri kita.Pola pencarian pengetahuan ini yang menarik sejauh halaman yang saya baca.
Hal ini menjadi bagian tandatanya saya, dimana titik pijak Nassim Taleb dalam menjelaskan fenomena black swan?Bila ia mengupas dari sudut pandang yang kesannya penuh dengan konsep filsafat ilmu, sebenarnya buku ini adalah buku ekonomi dan bisnis.
Nassim Taleb's earlier book "Fooled by Randomness" was enormously successful - deservedly so, in my opinion.
Unfortunately, this second book is a complete disappointment.
Despite its length, it adds very little of interest to the material in the first book.
Much of it is a rambling and indulgent rehash of ideas already developed adequately in the first book.
In the first book, he wrote fluidly, clearly, without condescending to the reader.
Unfortunately, this sequel does not manage to avoid a self-congratulatory smugness, which makes it less fun to read than the earlier book.Recommendation: "Fooled by Randomness" is a book which should be read by everyone.
