https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/658292.Murder_on_the_Nile
This was my first Christie novel I can recall reading, and I had no idea what a fun author she is. I guess I should have figured there was a reason she is so famous. I struggled to put down this fun page-turner. Poirot is a great character who is brilliant, clever, blunt, and a softie at his core. This was great light reading.
I don't think I have ever read an Agatha Christie book that I didn't enjoy and this was no exception. Considering the amount of books she has written this is some achievement and I wish there were more books to read of hers. I suppose I could always reread them. She is the master of suspense and intrigue.
I don't know why I figured that Agatha Christie was a pen name...
The term "deus ex machina" comes to mind.In this book though Christie drops many hard to discern clues in the first few chapters in which she also throws so much information at the reader that one is left picking up the pieces and trying to determine which bit of information is important.
Actually, I was wondering when the murder was going to happen and thankfully Christie spared the readers an entire book of detective work and instead gave only half a book.
I loved this. It was filled with suspense and action. And when I had thought I figured it out near the beginning she made me second guess myself. It turns out I was pretty close in the beginning. She is a very talented writer and I can’t wait to read more of her books.
In love with this novel.
Minus one star for the absence of Hercule Poirot, however this stage version still worked somehow.
I really enjoyed this book and I think I would read it again.
Me fascina Hércule Poirot. Me gusta Agatha. Me gustó mucho el libro
This is the third in three Agatha's books I have read and to be honest I'm a little bit disappointed.
Comparing to 2 others, which are Murder on the Orient Express and Ten little Niggers, this book lacks the element of surprise and was a bit lengthy.
From the third part of the book, after the first murder I could sense who were the killers due to the blatantly unreasonable attitudes of the two.
Notwithstanding, the whole review is based on my direct feelings after reading the book and the previous experience with the two other mentioned.
This is a cute little play. Reading a play is not the same as watching it, because there is so much going on visually that is created at the time of the play, of course. Also, the novel would have so much more description.I was really with the book until the murder was solved. Then the solution seemed to just pop out. I would have liked to have had some hints, but they weren't very good. Also, the ultimate culprit wasn't as surprising as I would have liked.The characters seemed to be well constructed.
No había leído nada de Agatha Christie hasta ahora y me ha encantado. Los personajes, con sus manías y sus encanto, el detective, la manera en que está contado y el plot twist del final! no me lo esperaba.Muy recomendado. Yo desde luego ya estoy leyendo más de esta fantástica autora
I think I love this more as an audible book then I would have as a book. The voice acting was fabulous and kept me intrigued. I know it was a short read, and only 2 hours for the audio. It was classic Agatha Christie.
The collapse of certain characters (particularly rolling Poirot and one of the suspects into the canon) into one made the mystery weaker and the story less interesting than the original novel Death on the Nile, but not bad overall.
I am a huge Agatha Christie fan. She was one amazing murder mystery writer.
somewhat implausible and yet predictable Poirot mystery (not sure how one reconciles those 2 things but there you have it) .
Kinda fun. Typical Agatha Christie. Always the surprise ending. Fast and short.
Или аз съм порастнала, или съм поумняла, или просто твърде много съм чела Агата Кристи, но не ме изненада финала. Иначе много добра книжка, поднесена интерсно, с обрати в събитията.
