https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30312700-alex-approximately
It surely can’t be Porter, who was in the old movie section of a DVD store, and knows Roman Holiday and old sci-fi movies and a million others, and has best friend problems, and works in his family’s business on the boardwalk within view of the ocean by a stray cat and a churro cart, and doesn’t know if he can go to college because his family needs him, and watches movies at work, and has a coworker who smokes a sh*t ton of weed, and whose girlfriend cheated on him.Semi-spoiler alert: Bailey NEVER FIGURES IT OUT.
THIS WAS SO ADORABLE.
So that just hit a ton of checks on the list of things I adore.
The two main characters are obsessed with classic films and basically mention every major movie EXCEPT for the actual one that You've Got Mail was based on.
I was just waiting the whole book to watch how The Shop Around the Corner might fit into the quotes at the top of each chapter or basically anything.
It actually does have heavier stuff, but the main characters roll with life in a way that lets them create their own story.
Bailey Rydell is an evader.Me: Oh dear, 'relatibility' = 0 → 100% in 3 seconds flat.
And I may or may not still be that girl when it comes to relationships but I digress ....Alex, approximately: super cute & funny YA contemporary with flowing first person narrative writing starring Bailey Rydell, the Artful Dogder & the extra adorable surfer boy named Porter Roth who sometimes more adorkable, but I'll take both, you can keep the change!
I loved Bailey's voice a great deal and that's why the book was so enjoyable to me.
and/or B.) google is my friend (life of a foreigner...) Whatthehell is 'moon muffin' anyway?
I mean, I couldn’t stop grinning and feeling things about this book!I love Jenn Bennett.
Especially her way of avoiding shit and not being able to confront her own feelings.
I loved that she was into movies, dressed quirky, her relationship with her dad and how she slowly started to open up and accept her flaws.
Why are fictional boys so damn swoon-worthy?
But, I wanted cuteness and I was overloaded with that.
Love is magic, people.
(This’ll only last for a short while till I’m back to my cynical old-me, this-world-sucks-no-men-will-ever-live-up-to-fictional-men-like-ever self).
I’m ready to die with cuteness overload.
LOVED this! 4.5/ 5One of my new favorite contemporaries!
Okay I've heard so much about this book and how it's a YA, cute ass retelling of You've Got Mail and I reallllly wanted to read it.
-The romance was kind of meh I'm sorry.Overall, this was not a bad read, but not really the greatest thing either.
I know I rated this 4 stars but in reality it's a 3.5 and I'm knocking it down to 3 stars because it was just meh cuteness.-----UPDATE: I just finished watching YOU'VE GOT MAIL AND AHAHAHAHA OH MY GOD SOMEONE FANGIRL WITH ME.
I'm so frigging ready to read this book now.---uhhhhh what is You've Got Mail??
4.5 stars!!    The one guy Bailey Rydell can’t stand is actually the boy of her dreams—she just doesn’t know it yet.  Alex, Approximately is the second book I've read from Jenn Bennett and I think I loved it even more than the first. Both of this author's YA novels have been huge wins for me. I hope she continues to write more of these charming, heart felt, and addicting coming of age stories! Bailey Rydell moves across the country to live with her dad. She has a thing for old movies and is in a
The one guy Bailey Rydell can’t stand is actually the boy of her dreams—she just doesn’t know it yet.
Alex, Approximately is the second book I've read from Jenn Bennett and I think I loved it even more than the first.
Bailey Rydell moves across the country to live with her dad.
She's never met Alex, but she's got a bit of a crush on the guy.
Porter is not a guy that Bailey would normally go for.
Porter, the real guy she's falling for, or Alex, her online friend she's liked for a long time.
Honestly, there wasn't much I didn't like about this book.
Buddy read   with the walking spoiler and the walking spoiler jr. I swear, I don’t think a You’ve Got Mail retelling CAN go wrong.    Reasons Why this Book is the Greatest™- It’s a YOU’VE GOT MAIL RETELLING- Bailey is relatable as hell- IT’S GENUINELY FUNNY- Porter Roth owns my heart- #FRIENDSHIP- Bailey’s dad - Porter Roth’s face- I’M TRASH- IT’S SO ADDICTIVE YOU CANT STOP READING- OR SQUEALING- HONESTLY- DO YOURSELF A FAVOUR AND READ THE BOOK I want to spend the rest of my life searching for Y
I swear, I don’t think a You’ve Got Mail retelling CAN go wrong.
Reasons Why this Book is the Greatest™-	It’s a YOU’VE GOT MAIL RETELLING-	Bailey is relatable as hell-	IT’S GENUINELY FUNNY-	Porter Roth owns my heart-	#FRIENDSHIP-	Bailey’s dad -	Porter Roth’s face-	I’M TRASH-	IT’S SO ADDICTIVE YOU CANT STOP READING-	OR SQUEALING-	HONESTLY-	DO YOURSELF A FAVOUR AND READ THE BOOK
I want to spend the rest of my life searching for You’ve Got Mail retellings and reading them.
After trying unsuccessfully to read this one for months, I FINALLY pushed myself through it and ended up really enjoying it! Jenn Bennett is definitely a new contemporary fav.
“And not after, when we’re clinging to each other like the world just fell apart and is slowly clicking back together, piece by piece, breath by breath . . . heartbeat by beautiful heartbeat.” (╥﹏╥)(╥﹏╥)(╥﹏╥)(╥﹏╥)(╥﹏╥)Guys, I had enough of this. I'm on strike. I keep picking up these books that somehow leave me in a messy puddle of FEELS.what did I do in Life to deserve this??? Anyway. A GUIDE TO WHY YOU SHOULD READ THIS 101 1.  It's really addictive like oh my gosh IS THIS WHAT CRACK FEELS LIK
It was 11pm and my eyes were 0.000000000001 seconds away from permanently closing AND THEN I got to some part in the book and was like 
Suddenly, I felt like I had enough energy to power 3 suns because my eyes were wide open aaaaaaaaaaaaaaand yeah, I sacrificed my sleep.
3. Duhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh, like I have to add "Characters" ○ Can I just start off by saying, Bailey's Dad is the bomb dot com.
○ I liked Bailey's friend, Grace..........................I lied, I tolerated her.
Retelling of "You've Got Mail" ○ If you haven't watched the movie then I don’t think we can friends.
Maybe Walt Whitman was right. We all really do contradict ourselves and contain multitudes. How do we even figure out who we really are?  I'm not going to lie-I'd much rather be writing about a book I've read closer to this moment, but if I don't go back and write reviews for all the books I've read-and loved-in the past few months, it will make me CRAZY (Well, crazier than usual...). Alex, Approximately was one of those books that you read quickly-but not like your typical YA contemp-you don
Alex, Approximately was one of those books that you read quickly-but not like your typical YA contemp-you don't just read it and cut through it and, once finished, never look back.
The chances of this book happening in real life are nill and none-I just meant that the progression of the romance not only felt natural, but light-hearted and full of something I'm not sure I feel very often anymore when I read.
But, and maybe this is a tad cliche, I think it truly says something when I read a book, have no time to write a review, and STILL come back a month (or more) later and attempt to post one.
I wanted it from Jenn Bennett's name and my undying love for her other YA book, The Anatomical Shape of a Heart.
She loves classic movies and dressing like Lana Turner and why aren't we BFFs already.
Not to mention a few secrets that are revealed in the slowest and agonizing way.This is a book that I'll be reading over and over again: when I need a pick me up or to get out of a slump or just need to grin like a loon the way I am right now.**Huge thanks to Mysterious Galaxy for letting me take an arc from the back room**
3) As it's too often the case, important issues are completely thrown off a cliff for the sake of the romance, and I'm not here for that : in Alex, Approximately, we have Davy, Porter's ex-best friend, who's got chronic pain since a surfing injuring and who starts doing drugs.
6) Don't believe people that tell you that Porter and Bailey's relationship is a hate-to-love romance because a) they ""hated"" each other for about ten minutes (more like Porter being a prick for absolutely no reasons, but moving on) and b)their hormones got the memo almost instantly : ME LIKEY (are you cringing at this sentence?
4.5-5 starsLooooooved. YA romance at its finest. Porter is ALL THE SWOONS.
I have lots to say about Alex, Approximately, but I’m not going to reveal everything, because there elements of the book you have to experience all on your own.
If you enjoy books with strong character development and growth, you will very likely connect on a deep level to Bailey and her story.PORTER’S SWOONINESS (I KNOW NOT A REAL WORD)Good gosh does Jenn Bennett know how to write YA boys who are delectable!
More awesome girl friendships, please!A ROMANCE THAT IS DELICIOUSLY ROMANTIC & SEX POSITIVETo say that I loved the development of the romance between Bailey & Porter would be a severe understatement.
i binged this in a day and i'm hopelessly, horribly obsessed. i've already reread some of my favorite parts three times and I CAN'T DEAL WITH MY EMOTIONS. this is way too cute. :''')full review to come!!
i mean its all meat, y'all lol also i still don't understand why romantic love in every single romance is this Thing that literally sustains your every heart beat??
A 4 step guide for how to write a 5 star book: Step #1: Take the best movie to ever exist (You've Got Mail) (Trust me on this one.)Step #2: Recreate it in book form. Remember, this is the important one. Don't mess it up like Julie Buxbaum did. Of course, added levels of hilarity and a swoonworthy love interest wouldn't hurt.Step #3: Add to the story a hint of charm and a Relatable™ af narrator.Step #4: Throw in a reference to the movie mentioned in step #1, because you've pulled out all the sto
A 4 step guide for how to write a 5 star book:
Step #1: Take the best movie to ever exist (You've Got Mail) (Trust me on this one.)Step #2: Recreate it in book form.
Remember, this is the important one.
Of course, added levels of hilarity and a swoonworthy love interest wouldn't hurt.Step #3: Add to the story a hint of charm and a Relatable™ af narrator.Step #4: Throw in a reference to the movie mentioned in step #1, because you've pulled out all the stops, might as well leave the reader (me) screaming.BONUS: It's served best with your shopgirl and mink
Hello, perfection.Books like this make me think the world might actually be pretty great.
Like, I feel privileged that I got to experience everything that helped her grow into the person she is by the end of the book.Also, I love her mentality with food.“I make a decision to give up on everything: finding Alex, finding another job, the meaning of life.
(MWAH HA HA HA.) I kept seeing all the clues in the book – they weren’t obvious to Bailey in the beginning, but it was REALLY obvious towards the end – and it was kind of frustrating, because I wanted to yell at her to pay attention to what was going on and FIGURE IT OUT ALREADY.Oh man, I totally digressed.
2.75/5 stars.  Okay, so don’t let the low star rating fool you. I did like this book a lot. I’d probably recommend it to someone who isn’t an avid reader. I just had problems with it.I hate comparing books to one another. I really do. I mean, the next time I see a “the next Hunger Games” comparison I might just burn something down. Yet, I couldn’t help it with this book. While I did enjoy it, I would have liked it a lot more if I hadn’t already read Tell Me Three Things or P.S. I Like You. All
While I did enjoy it, I would have liked it a lot more if I hadn’t already read Tell Me Three Things or P.S. I Like You. All three books were so incredibly similar, but I just felt like the other two did things better.
(Just FYI, I totally brain farted the title of  Tell Me Three Things , so I googled searched “YA waffle book” and that did help me at all)I think the problem for me was that there was no chemistry between the main character, Bailey, and the guy she had been talking to online, Alex.
Also, even though it's literally so obvious who Alex is, they tell you in the freaking description of the book.
3.75 stars  "I'm scared," I tell him, "of what I feel when I'm around you.
I'm scared of what I want from you, and I don't know how to ask for it."   This book is so fluffy and at the same time, confusing for me.
I liked it because it just has the right amount of cheesiness that I love, and Porter—oh my gosh—that boy was just what my heart needs.
I think people who will get to reading this will absolutely know from the start what is going to happen in this book and while that has some pros and c
I'm scared of what I want from you, and I don't know how to ask for it."
I think people who will get to reading this will absolutely know from the start what is going to happen in this book and while that has some pros and cons, I think the pros won me over.
Love won't make mental illness go away and that's an aspect of this book that I found lacking and dismaying.And even if I really enjoyed this book, it's confusing that it took me more than two weeks to finish it and that I had a mini-slump specific to this book.
Alex and Bailey’s dad live in the same city, but when Bailey makes the choice to move across the country to live with her father, she doesn’t tell Alex because she’s worried they won’t connect in real life.
Little does she know that Porter is actually Alex, just as he has no idea that Bailey is actually Mink.I really loved this book – so much so that I actually read it in one sitting!
She was sweet, and was really a good friend to Bailey.I definitely recommend Alex, Approximately for all fans of the YA genre!
Alex, Approximately is a book about two people who were meant to be together got lost and found, and lost and then found again. Bailey “Mink” Rydell was a seventeen-year-old “Artful Dodger,” who excelled in avoiding awkward moments or embarrassing conversations. In fact, she was a professional evader when it comes to reality and actual interaction with people.   That’s the thing about being an evader. You have to be flexible and know when to bail before it all gets weird. Better for everyone, r
However, during the times when Porter pissed Bailey off by embarrassing her in public (yeah, I’m talking about the speaker announcement *wink*) or making not-so-funny comments about her fashion style, she would distract herself by chatting with Alex online or putting more efforts into finding him in town.
Since they’d been talking about movies and life and past relationships online for months, (hide spoiler)] I felt like the moment Porter showed up in Bailey’s life—despite the fact he actually irritated her in her first day of summer job—I knew he was so much more than just the plain, happy-go-lucky Porter.
4.5* With an adorable romance, film references, wonderful characters and the Californian sun, Jenn Bennett has once again written a winning contemporary with Alex, Approximately.This was such an enjoyable read.
Having visited a few of the locations in this book, my heart had a very happy surprise bringing me back to some wonderful holiday memories (although they'd admittedly be 10x better if I'd had a Porter...) One aspect I loved was that the characters *actually* communicated.
Jenn Bennett is such an underrated voice in YA and I'm incredibly excited to continue to read and love her book.
first 75%: holy wow i'm so addicted this book is so fun and surprisingly serious but also so fun wow last 25%: i didn't realize i could feel this much annoyance from something that used to bring me such joy really great characters, lots of humor, cute chemistry, but then towards the climax, i feel like jenn bennett added drama for the sake of adding drama. character motivations were unconvincing, melodrama was more than lorde could dream of, and i was just extremely frustrated w the deterioration of the book's rationality. still a fun read tho!video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YFMgL...
This book is so good. It’s very summery and sweet but also has that dark secret in the background. Definitely pick this up for a fast paced read.
*sad face*  Okay????
*deep breath* Okay then!!!!Because otherwise.....
I feel like I just read a book about puppies and unicorns and sunshine and lollipops!!!!!
It was sugary sweet, light as air, fluffy as a kitten and this is pretty much how I feel right now.....
So I think it is safe to say that I liked it!!But I better get to the dentist to check for cavities after all that sweetness EEEEK!!!I WANT TO GIVE THIS FOUR OVER THE TOP STARS OF UNADULTERATED SUGARY GOODNESSOkay more like three and a half stars but still.....*happy sighing*
That is the immediate word that came to mind while I was reading Alex, Approximately.
I'm not going to lie, I fell in love with this story, the writing and the characters almost immediately.
But when I was reading Alex, Approximately the thought never once crossed my mind.
Second, I'm insanely in love with Porter.
And man were they sexy, hot.
I just never wanted their story to end Honestly a book like Alex, Approximately is why I got into reading YA books and blogging.
Jenn Bennett delivered a book and characters that will stay with me for a long while.
Oh man....You know, let me just start off by saying that book's cover doesn't match the book's tone....it doesn't feel like its part of the book?? But I thought I was going to get a corny ass YA romance story but  bRUH . It. Was. REALLY. GOOD. Let me list off a few things that surprised me (and trust me, I was fucking surprised):1) it's in freaking sunny California. (Really biased towards this one because I live in California YASSS). And finally somewhere that is NOT IN LA BUT IN CORONADO. Thank
Oh man....You know, let me just start off by saying that book's cover doesn't match the book's tone....it doesn't feel like its part of the book??
2) Redwood trees and turquoise beaches: There area a lot of books that have or take place in this setting but Alex, Approximately, made me feel like I was actually there, that such a place existed in real life.
This was one of my favorite aspects of the book mainly because it's something I'm super passionate about ( I was going to major in film).
Overall, I just really loved this book so much and it captures the 'California Vibe' exceedingly well.
