https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11036.Little_Birds
this is how I learned about sex. Thanks mom and dad for owning it! Also, I stole it from you.
PEOPLE ARE WASTING THEIR TIME NOWADAYS WITH AN OVERLOAD OF TOTALLY INSIGNIFICANT, SHALLOW EROTICA-BOOKS ! ANAIS NIN IS A GODDESS OF MASTERFULLY WRITTEN, DARK EROTICA - HER CHARMING VULNERABILITY AND PERSONAL HONESTY IS PART OF HER POETRY ! SOME OF THE THINGS SHE HAS WRITTEN ABOUT HAVE THE POWER TO BE SOMETIMES DISTURBING BUT THEY ARE ALSO A UNIQUE TESTIMONY ABOUT ANAIS NIN AS A PERSON, THE WOMAN SHE BECAME, THE WOMAN SHE WAS ! ALL THAT IS MEANINGFUL AND PROFOUNDLY MOVING ! (L.prytikin)
I give Little Birds four stars in comparison to Delta of Venus' two, though as a stand alone, it would probably only get 2 or 3.
There are almost no disgusting and despicable sex scenes in Little Birds, and for this, I am grateful.
(As it turns out, I'm a bit prudish after all...) Little Birds is set in various places around the world, but quite often set in New York and New Orleans.
It feels more modern than Delta of Venus.
And this, my second dip into a collection of Anais Nin's short stories, I finally understand why she is a noteworthy FEMALE writer.
She is finally writing about women.
Silly, stupid women.
Having won their trust, he exposes himself to the girls, after which they take fright and run away, like little birds.In the last story, a runaway 16 year old girl, Jeanette, finds physical shelter with Jean and Pierre.
Pierre even withholds his penis from the immediate satisfaction she is seeking:"It was as if he held a palpitating bird in his hand, a captive bird that tried to leap at her but that Pierre kept for his own pleasure...He continued to massage it...as if to say, 'I don't need you.'"In response, Jeanette is emptied of all but her own "desire to be taken and satisfied":"She bloomed under his caresses, no longer the girl but the woman already being born."Here, the bird helps Jeanette to take flight.Italian cover featuring "La Belle Rafaela" by Tamara de Lempicka (1927)The Most Delicious ViseI initially felt this posthumous collection was inferior to its immediate predecessor, 
This book, along with it's companion book (they run together in my mind and am talking about both here), Delta of Venus, are wonderfully evocotive erotic stories.
They are never the wham-bam-thank-you-ma'am stuff of porn magazines.
Sometimes magical, sometimes freaky, with a European sensibility, these stories are softly spellbinding.
I can't help but get caught up in them whenever I pick up these books.
Elena, Pierre, Leila, the Basque and Bijou, what a cool group of characters!
The sexual encounters depend on the development of the characters and there's more to them than you find in pretty much any other such stories.
Her characters awaken, blossom like flowers covered in the morning dew, and perfume the pages before our very eyes.Nin is not merely writing about sex or sexual taboos in these stories; she is writing essays on humanity’s constant battle to reconcile our inner longings and emotional conflicts concerning sex and death.
As for my own work, I do write a fair amount of sex, and it’s never comfortable no matter how many times you do it.
Just watch your language, erotica can turn into cheap porn with just a few puerile words … it doesn’t take much, and not every story needs sexual exploration.
He's too aggressive and they run away like little birds.A guy peeps in a window and then has a sexy rendezvous with a strange woman on the beach.
During an African dust storm, a woman begins to tell what promises to be the long and weird story of her sex life - but then stops, and doesn't seem to the recognize the listener when she sees him next.
When she falls for another man, he's turned off by her aggression; he thinks she's acting like a whore.
This story is almost pure sex.
After all, how much sex can you read about and let your mind absorb before your head actually, truly aches and you declare you've finally had enough?Little Birds is a compilation of short stories of erotica.
There's a story about an exhibitionist, a pig-like creature with a snout that finds its way between women's legs, orgies, homosexuality, even incest (the one that I couldn't stomach), and more sex.
The stories I couldn't forget are those with endings that I found either funny or weird.
:) And the one I found weird was about the husband who couldn't make love to his own wife, preferring to do it with his colored servants instead.
It would be a valuable read for someone who did not know how to caress his or her partner to get them aroused for sex.
If someone's fifteen-year-old son asked their mom or dad what sex was all about, first it would be wise to tell them about reproduction, how to avoid it until ready, venereal diseases, and so on; and then tell them about Little Birds, how it's available at the library, and how reading it would educate them in a way which is hard to explain by anyone but experienced confidants.
What I can say is that thanks to encountering Anias Nin as a boy, I grew up viewing sexuality and sexual attraction as something that takes place mostly in the mind and it is that tension that she describes, between desire and fear/exhileration, and the surrender that her characters often go through that has made for a very healthy sense of the sexual in my life.
I would recommend Nin's books to them, but I am almost certain they would hate them.So Nin had a positive effect on my life, and contributed to my understanding of the way the female mind views sexuality.
Read: October 2016Overall rating: 4/5 starsFor me Anais Nin has been a very unpredictable author to 

I found this incredibly boring when compared to the eroticism and sensuality of Delta Of Venus. I was expecting far more from Anais Nin, especially when regarding a field that she had so much expertise in.The thing is, erotica is one of those things that is so hard to suffer through when it's dull... there's just no pretending otherwise; and these stories were very similar, caresses followed by a very scientific depiction of oral sex. Sorry to say it did nothing for me.
My first piece of erotica and after Little Birds, both my opinion of Anais Nin and the bar for erotica is very high.Several people believe that sex is purely physical.
In thirteen short stories, Anais Nin explores all kinds of men and women, and how the intricacies of their lives shape their personalities and their desires.
Lust, obsession, fantasy and desire emerge as part of the human condition, as pure or as complex as any other.Favourite stories: The Woman in the Dunes, The Model and Mandra.
In 13 stories only one focuses on two people screwing because they like it.
Magic mystery sex with a stranger who romantically recounts being raped in a crowd while watching a hanging.3.
Main character Lina just needs a bit of rape to get her to like sex.4.
The hot prude's husband begins to make secret paintings of his naked wife against her will.
Bizarre stories of raping jungle women.
How to get your husband to stop screwing "colored women"--just smell like one and it will "break the spell"!12.
Two women enjoy a bit of sex and anal play.
“We don’t see people as they are.
We see people as we are.”Anais Nin, at her best, is a writer who presents snapshots of erotica, cleverly written, poetic and raw – she is the foremother of flash fiction.
Anais Nin’s Little Birds is Anais Nin at her best.
From the introduction – which is in itself a great story to read, telling as it does of her struggles for money amd the necessity of her writing erotica – to the last story in this collection, Little Birds is a collection of great stories, of perversion and lust and even, occasionally, of love.Technically, adding Anais Nin to my Year of Reading Women is cheating – I’ve read her before, and I loved her before.
something devouring that could lick a man all over like a flame, annihilate him, with a pleasure never known before.Nin writes about desire and pleasure with imagination and a kind of full-body sensuality.
They must have been both shocking and liberating in the 1930s depicting as they do sexual passion for both men and women as separate from marriage or even love.The most full stories revolve around artists and models, and questions of power are sometimes overturned or reversed.
All the same, there's perhaps something deeply patriarchal about the idea of women being ushered into womanhood via men: 'she bloomed under his caresses, no longer the girl but the woman already being born'.

I think Anais Nin was very courageous in her writing.
Това обаче е само моя повърхностен поглед на човек, прехвърлил няколко цитата.Нин е и любопитна като жена на своето поколение.
Хенри Милър е един от онези, с които си съперничат - той, освен това, е неин любовник.
външните проявления на вътрешната дихотомичност са всякакви, на Анаис Нин е това), ме кара да съм само още по-привлечена от характера, писането, чувстването й.Първата книга, на която най-сетне попаднах, е сборникът с кратки еротични разкази "Little Birds" (thank you Elephant Bookstore :D).
Самата Анаис отказва да ги публикува приживе, наричайки ги "extreme caricatures", и ако трябва да съм честна, това нейно определение доста им пасва.
It was just last year that I read more about Anais Nin, and it was by then that I learned about her relationship with Henry Miller (one of my most favorite writers), which had an obvious impact to both their writings.
So during the last quarter of last year, I had bought her books, and reading them makes me understand further Henry Miller’s works.
And this book is so intense to the point that it could make me unzip…and more.
Superbly erotic, so I gave this book 4 stars, and I’ll be reading more of her works this year.
Ok. Eso fue una cachetada con guante blanco.
Justo cuando me quejé de las ideas de erotismo de Nin, llega con un cuento que me desarma completamente y me hace entender que antes de hablar tengo que esperar.Lo cierto es que disfruté mucho este libro: no me malinterpretes.Es justamente lo que esperaba de un libro de cuentos eróticos.
Esa sensación en las manos y en la piel de no poder controlarlo.
Aunque sí, como en todo, debes tener el mood "correcto" para poder leerlos y entenderlo completamente.Síp, definitivamente uno de mis favoritos.Y síp, definitivamente leeré más de Nin.
This book ruined my innocence.
El segundo librito de Nin que leo y todavía sigo pensando que tiene no sé qué de farsante.
En el prólogo de Delta of Venus comenta que estos dos libritos los escribió por encargo de un pornógrafo, a principios de 1940.
Efectivamente los relatos de Little Birds se componen por oraciones muy cortas, hay muchos párrafos irritantes conformados por una seguidilla de oraciones que empiezan con ‘I’, etc.Lo que sí tiene de interesante (además de los #protips) es el tema de la mirada femenina sobre el cuerpo ajeno y el propio.
Veremos que pasa con los textos de sus diarios.
Era curiosa di leggere qualcosa di Anaïs Nin da un po' e ho deciso di iniziare con Uccellini. Trattandosi di letteratura erotica sapevo a cosa stessi andando incontro e nonostante questo sono rimasta piacevolmente stupita.Uccellini è una raccolta di racconti - alcuni anche molto brevi - che si fa leggere in maniera molto scorrevole. Non è affatto volgare, anzi, ci si imbatte in passaggi estremamente poetici e si incontrano personaggi affascinanti.Classificherei questo libro come una lettura poco impegnativa da leggere in estate.
I was missing France when I began reading this book, as my last memory of having read Anais Nin was when I was in Paris 2004 (Delta of Venus). I did not read any Nin for my 2006 Paris trip, but I remember still being affected by Delta of Venus. As it turns out, WHILE in the middle of reading Little Birds, I find I will be back in Paris next summer. Her writing takes me to "another place" and I am ever so grateful
This book was interesting. I was surprised to come across it while browsing at the library. Who knew? I had read Delta of Venus years ago and remember thinking that it was interesting (and informative), but that the writing style felt a little stiff. I have found that I still feel that way, but that I had missed the insight into our natures that really are what make the work enduring.
This book beats 50 shades of Grey into oblivion - beautifully written - a classic novel - and no stupid girl called Ana saying holy crap all the time...Anaïs Nin
So....this was weird and sexy, but very weird...this short stories somewhat hard to swallow....no pun intended.
I know that my mother certainly had a set, which I was carefully forewarned against reading until I was 18 years old.
So it was with a 53 year-old's perspective that I now attempted to read these books, appreciating them for what they are, classic erotica in every sense of the genre."Little Birds"is a collection of 13 short stories, most very short in length.
It's still well worth the read, of course.So now at 53 years of age, I can now comprehend this book for what it is.
And I will say now that many a man should take note of these books and read them, they are not for women alone.
