https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58399.Dust_Tracks_on_a_Road
This, however, turned out to be one of the most marvelous autobiographies I have ever read and more inspirational than discouraging.I loved reading about Hurston’s childhood; she was such a precocious and inquisitive child who could easily have been stifled creatively by the culture she lived in, a culture and society that did not encourage book-reading or learning, yet found ways to grow her creativity and imagination.
Her ideas about race and religion were probably considered radical in those days; she was definitely way ahead of her time.And her writing, wow!
I thought that was wonderful.I would unquestionably invite Zora Neale Hurston to my fantasy literary dinner party.
Time and place have had their say.Zora Neale Hurston was a highly acclaimed writer, publishing four novels, two books of folklore, an autobiography, and more than fifty short pieces between the Harlem Renaissance and the end of the Korean War. She was seen as a dominant writer who brought the consciousness of the black woman to literature.
Her work was so important to the next generation of women writers that Alice Walker made it her literary quest to find her: "In Search of Zora Neale Hurston."What is interesting is that at times, like the title of Walker's article, you do find yourself searching for Hurston throughout her memoir.
Through reading this book one discovers much about Zora Neale Hurston's life and personality.
She was a short story writer, novelist (author of Their Eyes Were Watching God), anthropologist and folklorist.
A chronology listing the important events of her entire life is found at the book's end.
The book covers her youth, her education and what she did with her life.
It is reflected in how she tells of her life; her experiences are related through stories.
What is interesting to note is that the autobiography reads almost as a collection of stories.
The book ends and then a long section is filled with what seems like add-ons.
Dust Tracks On a Road, Zora Neale Hurston’s autobiography, was published in 1942.
This verbose but colorful book reads like a collection of short stories.
Hurston often poses questions that she proceeds to answer but not without excluding the reader from her thought process.
While Hurston’s mother was always supportive of her anecdotes, her grandmother found them troubling.
I laughed when I read Hurston’s account of what happened when she was telling her mother a story within earshot of her grandmother, “Oh, she’s just playing,” Mama said indulgently.
Stop her!”Hurston’s mother died when Hurston was a teen and her father remarried.
Zora just gave me life #yesssssssssssssssssss65% Done: Writing on paper, that Booker T Washington was trash makes Zora the dopest of the dope. Fight me.
Excellent writing over all, published in 1942 at the height of Zora Neale Hurston’s popularity.
The author lived another 18 years, died, was buried in an unmarked grave and remained largely ignored until novelist, Alice Walker, looked into her and her work with a view to having Hurston recognized by new generations.
She seems to have never looked back.During her travels, Zora found work where she could, but going to school was always her dream and eventually she realized it.
There was an entire chapter devoted to Religion which was certainly unique, but also confirming.
Sadly, I do not believe I will be reading any more Hurston.
Zora Neale Hurston approaches this moving memoir like a master storyteller, with wonderfully lyrical prose that reminded me a lot of her novel Their Eyes Were Watching God. Loved it.
It's been years since I read anything written by Zora Neale Hurston, and I find myself once again amazed by the hugeness of her life.
She was a vital woman and writer who truly lived in her time.Like many others, I liked her accounts of her childhood and teen years the best.
But, we each have the ability to move past ugliness, help one another, and live our best.
This autobiography is a book of lessons, not necessarily a linear account of Zora Neale Hurston's life.
But even so, I feel most fiction tends to have quite a few autobiographical moments whether it was the author's intent or not.Anyone interested in Hurston at all should read this book.
She was open about her experiences which I appreciated, though, again, she did sometimes take stories on a little further than I felt was necessary, so there is some repetition.Overall, though, this is a great read and makes me want to read even more of her writing.
I thought it might be interesting to read the book she was best known for (Their Eyes), followed by her autobiography, then followed with her short stories.
I defy you to find a more energetic criticism of ethnic nationalism than "Seeing the World as It Is," one of the chapters/essays at the end of the book.
I've seen other critics remark that the book's chapters don't gel, and while it's true that Dust Tracks is more a collection of essays than a novel or memoir, I wouldn't say that makes the book any less entertaining.
After all, what keeps you reading isn't so much the suspense of what's to happen as the force of Hurston's personality.
And what a personality!A must-read for anybody interested in Hurston.
I love Henry Louis Gates Jnr's afterword to the edition I read, which discusses the search for a voice in Hurston's work and contemporary black women writers related search for literary ancestors, of whom Zora may be claimed as one...I like her style when it remains concrete; when she strays into abstractions, I start getting bored.
Nontheless, Hurston's love and enthusiasm for the musical and dance arts of black people in the USA and the Caribbean and of their storytelling is genuine and she brings them to life here along with many vivid characters, among whom she is the blazing star...
What is there to say that hasn't already been said? She was a visionary. She is still relevant. Her work is still changing lives.
She was a storyteller and a somewhat of a humorist and that is what you will get reading this I hope.I think most people know Zora as the author of Their Eyes Were Watching God. I did love that book, but that's not the only thing she wrote.
Although, most people think she would be a Libertarian today.I also love what she said about her writing.
Her first book wasn't liked by her black peers.
I haven't read her first book yet, but doesn't seem like it has anything to do with politics.
She writes: “What I do know, I have no intention of putting but so much in the public ears.”As a whole I really enjoyed this book but I feel, like all texts, it must be viewed in the context in which it was written- I don’t doubt Hurston’s commitment to individuality or her understanding of race markers as socially constructed but the highlighting of all the white people who helped her along the way seems bizarrely self-conscious as Maya Angelou has noted.
She is so firmly couched in individualism that she commits herself to the causes of no group even as she eloquently details the hypocrisy of foreign policy in Seeing the World As It Is. My People!
I have a serious girl crush on Zora Neale Hurston! Her personality was a thing of beauty. I think I smiled 90% of the time while reading this book!! I wish I could have met her, gone to a book signing or something, but she left me with some hope at the end of this book. “Maybe all of us who do not have the good fortune to meet, or meet again, in this world, will meet at a barbecue.”
This book was beyond my expectations. The visualization of the characters influences, were exceptional! Overall, I loved how she found herself...LOVING ME!!
However, it certainly did not seem to tell the whole story in that Hurston sought to distance herself from members of her own race who were not as educated.
Her life would probably be a lot more interesting in the hands of a biographer who would tell the whole story, warts and all.
For now, here are quotes from Written By Herself.I think this book is the best of all Hurston's works that I've read, and shows her strengths as a writer and storyteller.p. 36"In the classroom I got along splendidly.
They had been tampered with by musicians, and had their faces lifted to the degree that when real Negroes heard them, they sat back and listened just like white audiences did.
Like some more "passing for white."p 808: "But this I do know, that people became very much alive to West Indian dancing and work songs.
She knows how to tell a story, her sense of humor is wicked, and she seems absolutely fearless.
From chapter 16 on, the autobiography reads like a series of essays on her life, the times, things she has observed.
Her story is fascinating, and well worth the read.
But here were ten Negro barbers, three porters and two manicurists all stirred up at the threat of our living through loss of patronage.
It seems to me that trying to live without friends, is like milking a bear to get cream for your morning coffee.
Four years after writing Janie Mae’s journey in Their Eyes, Zora Neale Hurston was persuaded by her editor, J.
The result was Dust Tracks on A Road, the partly fictionalized tale of a persona named Zora and her geographical, spiritual, and intellectual journey from Eatonville to New York and beyond.
In Their Eyes, Janie defines herself by seeking her dream of fulfilling relationships.
In Dust Tracks, Zora sees each person she encounters as a new stage in her journey, and she defines herself through the magnifying glass of these relationships.

Zora Neal Hurston uses her life as a backdrop to let a loose plot unfold.
Her talent as a storyteller shines through and is the star of the book.
She told me the one thing I wanted to know which was what was going on in her mind when she wrote Her Eyes Were Watching God. In my opinion, that book is a Harlem Renaissance masterpiece.
If I was left wanting anything, it was more about her process in writing it.I’m going to let everyone else debate about Hurston’s politics, plagiarism or whatever.
I'm going with 5 stars all the way.
A solid memoir about a fascinating life and an under-appreciated writer.
Full of voice, but lacking in momentum.
До сега бях чел само двете книги с антропология на Зора Нийл Хърстън и определено бях изненадан от високото качество на прозата в тази автобиография.
Определено ще прегледам и четиритеи романа.Извън стила на писане, който е очарователен, много от догатките ми за тази силна личност се потвърдиха.
Зора е изпреварила времето си с половин век, а вижданията и за света в който живее не могат да бъдат достигнати дори сега.
Вижданията и за „нейните хора” надскачат представите за расово равенство, които се появява дори по-късно от когато е живяла и се опитват да се издигнат на базата на омраза, като контрапункт на пълното човеколюбие в книгата.
I wanted to read Dust Tracks on a Road as I was curious how much of the love story between the narrator and Tea Cake in Their Eyes Were Watching God might've been drawn from Hurston's own life. I also wanted to read this book before just-released Barracoon to learn about Hurston's training as an anthropologist. Dust Tracks was an engrossing read and gave me the insights into Hurston's life I was hoping to find. Up next: Barracoon.
An impassioned and moving autobiography, Zora Neale Hurston's Dust Tracks on a Road, a work influenced as much by artistic self-conception as factual events, perfectly encapsulates the boundless spirit, determined tenacity, and creative genius of one of the greatest American writers of all time.
I, however, would strongly recommend Dust Tracks on a Road to anyone who is a fan of Hurston's work or who would be interested in a very unique take on the black experience in the early and mid 20th century
Because I've read all of Angelou's "autobiographies" and she is on record as saying that um, yeah--some of it is "fictionalised".
Well, autobiography and memoir often are; as Hurston says, each person makes a statue of the person they would like to be!
Hurston also lacks the anger that Angelou so often vents in her writing, often due to "race pride", "race hatred", or perhaps pure frustration?
The passers-by don't hurt you, but if you go around like that, they make you hurt yourself."So yes, it is not a traditional autobiography, but there is some very good writing here--of what Hurston wrote herself.
My People!" is an observant treatise on race that points out the hypocrisy of whites (condemning the Germans for invading and controlling France while England was controlling India, for one example); she brilliantly reminds readers of the many blacks who have fought for this country's freedom (Crispus Attucks) and those who fought against slavery, Simon the "Negro" who helped Jesus carry the cross to Calvary, and the troops who helped win the battle of San Juan Hill with Teddy Roosevelt.
Hurston establishes Eatonville early on as a place where black achievement surrounded her, and her appreciation for the language is evident in early chapters of her autobiography.Many parts of this felt more like a novel than an autobiography, partly because it doesn't follow conventional patterns of autobiographies that detail personal triumphs and professional successes in a chronological order.
This was the first I read from my choices but it was so good I've realized that the challenge is not about a chore but about opening myself up to new book-loves.
And few people want to be forced to ask themselves, 'What if there is no me like the statue?' The thing to do is grab the broom of anger and drive off the beast of fear.""Any time you catch folks lying, they are skeered of something.
I'm so happy I picked this book for my challenge and saw the really pretty bright yellow cover in a bookstore in December.
