https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22635858-the-bookseller

I have mixed feelings regarding Kitty/Katharyn, she has good intentions yet she contradicts these intentions in many ways.
This has to be the most boring book I have ever read.
I wasn't a fan of the way autism was approached, yes the narrative is set in the 1960's contributing to the ignorance (fingers crossed) but it still made me very uncomfortable.
I'm also not a huge fan of 'what if?' which of course is the premise of this book.
After reading this book, spending time with Kitty/Katharyn it's official I love my life even more than I did prior to cracking this book open.
It is the 1960s, and their idyllic world includes books and all things bookish.But at night, Kitty lives in an alternate world created in her dreams: she is Katharyn Andersson, married to Lars, with triplets: Mitch, Missy, and Michael.
And which world is a dream?A captivating tale that took me back to what life was like for me in the 1960s where I could totally relate to both Kitty and Katharyn and what choices were involved for each version of the young woman she was."The Bookseller: A Novel" was impossible to put down, and I didn't want it to end.
And what did these dream worlds tell us about the young woman and the choices she had to make?
What's going on in publishing these days? Is the same designer responsible for all these covers? If so, good job, designer. You won again.These covers always pull me in because of course they do. Why wouldn't they?None of these books have lived up to their covers, sadly.Don't get me wrong. I liked this one. It's a solid story with good writing and an interesting premise. Unfortunately, I got a little tired of it. Also, it made me feel sad but not in the way I like to feel sad. It made me feel he
A sort of love letter, which is nice because those are usually written about Paris and NYC and not our little state capital, but it was also a bit offputting because why does anyone need such specifics in a story if they don't live here?
While, yes, that's pretty much exactly what it sounds like when white women rationalize why they're not racist, does everyone have long, expository, internal thought-stories about how they feel on racism when they’re at a party?
I have to talk about my racism out loud as soon as I realize I've said or done something horrible which, of course, makes it all worse and then I go and feel like a stupid asshole for days afterward.
Cynthia Swanson’s THE BOOKSELLER is ostensibly a story of two realities, one in which protagonist Kitty is a 38-year-old single woman who runs a failing bookstore with her life-long best friend and lives alone with her cat, and another in which Kitty (now called Katharyn) is married with three children, living the typical 1960’s suburban family life.
In the end, THE BOOKSELLER frustrated me, because what worked best in the novel was Kitty’s life with her cat, her best friend, her wonderful parents, and the struggling bookstore.
As it is, there really isn’t any choice, and once Kitty/Katharyn realizes this she begins to understand what her dreams really mean.
She has a cat and loves her parents and is helping the neighbor boy learn to read.When she's asleep she's the mother of triplets with this blue-eyed husband who takes her to cocktail parties.There's a situation with one of the kids that I didn't know what to make of.
If I'm going to read about someone life--or lives--in this case, please make them more interesting and exciting than my own.Kitty--she goes to work, talks to her friend, talks to her parents, goes home and sleeps, and of course frets about this dream life.Katharyn--she does the motherhood/wifey thing, attends a cocktail party or two, shops, fights with her kid.What is supposed to appeal to me about either life?
Then she falls asleep one night and finds herself in an alternate reality in which she is Katharyn, a married woman with children, a loving husband, and a much more complicated but fuller life.
Dreaming of this life once is like taking a trip, but Kitty dreams of this life over and over again and the line between reality and dreaming begins to blur.
The plot and the tension build and when Swanson gives us the key to the puzzle, she does not cheat her reader with the manner in which she resolves this dichotomy.
Kudos to Cynthia Swanson for a story well-told.
Psychosis is the backbone of this novel set in the early 1960'sPsychosis is a symptom of mental illness rather than the name of a medical condition itself.
Broadly speaking, it means a loss of contact with reality.
In  The Bookseller  after the loss of her parent's in a plane crash, the main character has a prolonged psychotic reaction.
After reading this book, you may have a severe psychotic reaction yourself...well perhaps not that drastic, but clearly you will want to scream you bloody head off!
Save your time, money and sanity and skip this novel.
Single gal, Kitty, runs a bookshop with her best friend, Frieda.
Cynthia Swanson plays with the "What if?" question that often haunts us, as we get older.
Upon awakening,Kitty becomes transfixed making her life better, but also wanting to spend time with her dream family.
I find myself agreeing with many of the other reviews, I did like Kitty much better than Kathryn.
Maybe the characters (Lars and the kids ) were just too perfect in the beginning for me to accept how everything played out in the end.
I also felt a real disconnect between the Kitty and Frieda story.
This was a read I quickly became immersed in.
One of the aspects of the unfolding of the story was in the beginning there is a clear delineation between reality and the fantasy world that the main character dreams herself into.
As the story reveals more, the lines between reality and fantasy blur, both for Kitty Miller/Katharyn Andersson and the reader.
Towards the end of the book, I was questioning which life was real and which was fake.
I rallied with support when Katharyn embraces her reality and reclaims the aspects of her life that she needs to.
This book is beautiful! B e a u t i f u l! Absolutely heart wrenching, heartbreaking, and heartwarming! The biggest question in this book is "What if?" It's bittersweet, surprising and talks about different subjects such as autism, grieve, ailment, love, friendship, books and family. It's also set in the sixties which is different and interesting.I highlighted ALL the books mentioned here! I must read them all!
An interesting twist on the classic "what if" tale. One huge pet peeve: the crappy Spanish of Alma the housekeeper. Seriously, couldn't Harper get someone who actually knows Spanish to check that the author's Spanish was accurate? Btw, not only was it not accurate, it was actually ATROCIOUS.
I feel like I flew through the kindle version because it just kept reminding me of other little books.
Whenever she goes to sleep, well she wakes up in this different world (sort of).
She doesn't like her actual name and goes by Kitty in her real life..
but in this one her husband calls her Katharyn.While reading this book, I'm so intrigued that she time travels while asleep - because sometimes dreams can seem so vivid.
but I feel like she definitely treated him differently than her other two - which made me frown.
The plot is set in Denver in the 1960s, Miss Kitty Miller(30) is single & dreams of a new life to be Mrs. Kathryn Anderson(30) married to a rich Man.- Kitty is a unhappy school teacher, from parents for failing their children.
- She dreams she is Mrs. Kathryn Anderson with Lars & triplets.
But after waking, Kitty reads in the newspaper why he did not show a Lars Anderson death notice....The plot continues flipping between the Kathryn dream & Kitty real worlds.
She must consider what is gained and/or lost in either world.
Bittersweet. The book is about a woman named Kitty who lives another life in her dreams where she is Katharyn. It is one of those books where one decision could have lead to a different path. Or is it? This book had many layers, and presented some twists (which were blatantly obvious). It was well written and engaging, but at the same time predictable. It was a good read though.

The Bookseller is a first-time novel for Cynthia Swanson.
Katharyn/Kitty, the main character kept me engrossed in this novel from page one.In the Bookseller, Swanson takes us on a startling journey where a woman is thrust into an alternate world that might have been, if she had made different decisions.
The Bookseller is a wonderful exploration of identity, love and loss.
The 1960's tone is elegant, slightly mysterious, and thoroughly engrossing.
The Bookseller's plot fascinated me, was well written and the many twists and turns kept me engaged until the final page.
Katharyn/Kitty's journey kept me guessing.
The Bookseller is an unique, intriguing read.
It's tough to say much about this book without giving away the entire plot.
It's 1962 and Kitty is torn between two lives.
One in which she's a conventional married mother of triplets, and the other where she's a single 38 year old woman who runs a small bookshop with her long time best friend Frieda.
The book references are fun, and what mother hasn't wondered what life would have been like sans children ?
( maybe me, more than most having had 4 in 4 years with a set of twins to boot.) Pretty standard chick lit fare.
That is until she begins to dream about an alternate path her life may have taken - one in which she goes by Katharyn and is married to the love of her life and is a stay at home mother.
I think the only explanation for Kitty/Katharyn's confusion of what is real life and not, for her apparent lapses in memory, is mental disturbance caused by grief.
Some serious suspension of disbelief is necessary to make the conclusion work.Additionally, I was a little disappointed that Kitty seems to be poised between choosing an "independent" life and the more conventional path of wife and mother.
Slowly we find out more about Kitty: she used to be a 5th grade teacher, she is very close to her loving parents, she was jilted by her long-time boyfriend and hasn't been dating much lately.Things at the bookstore haven't been going so well since the bus line that ran right in front of the store changed routes, and Frieda wants to consider moving the shop to a better location in a shopping center.But the dreams continue, where it appears that Kitty leads a completely different life.
I went back and forth two or three stars. The writing quality was excellent but the plot construction was poor with a big- losing the reader why am I even reading this middle. The end was neatly done with a good twist and I can see what the writer was trying to accomplish. A Character moping around is not a good plot device. A rewrite would have done wonders for this book.
1.99 on 02/08/17It was okay, I came close to calling it quits more than once. I’m not sure what I was expecting but it was disappointing. My rating is more a 2.5. I often buy sale books, this one didn’t work for me. I could not connect with Kitty at all. Ready to move on!
We learn that Kitty loves to dream and her imagination is impressive.
I’ve had more than a few occasions where I was abruptly woken and I think, “Wait, I want to finish my dream.” And, I’ve had the occasions where I abruptly awaken from a nightmare; confused until I realize it was only a dream.Where Cynthia Swanson shines in this novel is having the reader consider coping mechanisms and how dreams reflect our coping skills.
Yet at other times, dreams are just our own entertainment system.
In addition, Swanson has the reader considering stress; how little and big events add up and what mechanisms do we utilize to manage.The novel takes place in 1962 and 1963 Denver.
The novel is entertaining.
For me, it shifted from book candy to thought provoking.
From the moment I started the book I knew it was going to be one that would keep me up reading late in to the night.
I felt as if I really got to know Kitty (Katharyn) and could really feel and understand her struggle between her real life and her imaginary life.Once I reached about the middle of the book I found that I did not want to put it down!
There were many questions I had about Kitty's two lives; her imaginary dream life started to become more and more real and there were so many questions left unanswered after every chapter spent there.
I've often wondered what my life would be like if a different path had been taken-- both literally and figuratively.
Debut author Cynthia Swanson tackles this idea with her novel The Bookseller, in which a woman must reconcile the life she currently has with one that she could have had if things had been different.
The alternate life begins to haunt her in her dreams, so much so that she starts to question her own reality.
Set in the 1960s with countless cultural references (including books that were popular at the time), I read it compulsively and was completely surprised at the ending.
It was a total impulse buy and honestly I wouldn't have cared too much if it had ended up disappointing me.
For some reason, I rarely end up giving them 5 stars.
This time, though, I was rewarded with a book that far exceeded my wildest expectations.
Things I loved (in no particular order): - the alternate-reality setting (which I was NOT expecting)- the bookshop in which Kitty works and the descriptions of books that go with it- the various plot twists (some of them EXTREMELY clever)- Katheryn's relationship with Lars- Lars- the overall message ('things are not what they seem')- the overall dramatic tension (why is Katheryn/Kitty jumping to and fro between two different realities?
I didn't want anything to spoil my read!!Kitty Miller and Frieda Green are best buds, have been that way since high school, and now they own a small bookstore "Sisters Bookshop" in Denver.
Kitty keeps having recurring dreams.
She's not Kitty - she's Katharyn and she's living a totally different life.
She loves the dreams but she loves coming back to her real life and being just Kitty with the bookstore.
The dreams come back every time she sleeps and they seem so real.
After awhile she can't tell which life is her real one.
Cynthia Swanson’s  debut, THE BOOKSELLER  is a stunning, dreamlike, intriguing story of two worlds.
Katharyn (Kitty) operates Sisters, a Denver bookstore she owns with her best friend, Frieda.
For some odd reason,  when Kitty/ Katharyn, sleeps she is dreaming of a different life.
Here we have the main protagonist, Kitty/ Katharyn, a 38-year-old single woman who runs a failing bookstore with her life-long best friend and lives alone with her cat.
Which life is real; is she married to Lars and do they have children?
What happened to her best friend?
As the dreams become more real, she recalls things in her life.
Though it bounces from her real life—where she’s Kitty—into a dream life in which she’ goes by Katharyn and she has to figure out how this other life works by guessing, asking what must seem like silly questions, or sometimes remembering things suddenly—you as the reader are never confused about whether she’s in her real life as a single women working alongside her friend at a struggling book store or a married woman with three children, one of whom has special needs.
The married version of herself dresses, like so many women at the time did, like Jacqueline Kennedy.
The story happened in 1962-1963, and the author managed to incorporate lots of historical events into the storyline.
For example: The Cuban missile crisis, the Kennedy's, Giants playing in the World Series, Gone with the Wind, and many books that I've never heard of (after all, she's a bookseller, no?) The reading experience (I couldn't put down the book in the beginning) and the setting are a solid 4, but the plot planning and technique are a 3 - by the middle of the book, everything was a bit forced and predictable.
The author carefully used the chapter before to plan what's going to happen in the next.
Who wouldn't love to read a story about what could have been; would have been?
