https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10336.The_Last_of_the_Really_Great_Whangdoodles
The title of this book could just as easily be pulp porn as a children's book.
In fact the first time I saw the title I really did think it was about something else Really Big. But there are lots of these innuendos hidden in children's books fromShel Silverstein's The Missing Piece Meets the Big O, Tom Swift and His Big Dirigible, The Muffin MuncherDr. Seuss's The Pocket Book of Boners Games You Can Play With Your Pussy or in song, Chuck Berry's children's sing-a-long number My Ding a Ling (lyrics), possibly the dirtiest song ever.
Or perhaps it's just my mind!No it's not.
'Faugh' and 'pifflesticks' to those who think this book doesn't retain the charm and magic of when we experienced it as children.
If you were like me as a child, and found the ideas in this book both magical and wondrous, take the trip again (while wearing your Imagination Hats, of course, which means not being a stuffy old sourpuss)Even better, read this to your own kids and pass the legacy of this fantastic little book on to a new generation.
I would love to hear her narrate this story.
She has a good ear for dialogue and her imagination and world building is very good.This story was written in 1974, a very good year I must say.
I love the thread of how important imagination and belief is.
Not to assume someone's stories.
I think her singing and acting skills were stronger, but she has a good solid story here about imagination.
I hear she has other stories and I might need to check them out at some point.
Only by skill and determination were the four travelers able to discover the last of the really great Whangdoodles and grant him his heart's desire.MY THOUGHTS: All the times I read The Last of the Really Great Wangdoodles by Julie Edwards to and with my sons, and I never realized that the author was Julie Andrews!
But the greatest thing about the book is that it is magical, not in a Harry Potter kind of way, but in its innocence.
We all need a little magic and wonder in our lives.
3.5 stars for this one.I got really depressed when I started reading this book because Julie Andrews lied to me.
She says in the intro about the Whangdoodle: "I had discovered him in my Webster's Dictionary.
Go look him up." Um, there is NO "whangdoodle" in my big fat herkin' Webster's New World Dictionary.
Julie Andrews lied to me.
You have to keep telling jokes to get it moving.
You stand in front of the mirror and tell it what sort of ice cream sundae you'd like, and it magically appears.
I love the whimisical nature of the book.
I love Julie Andrews.Yes, whangdoodle sounds like a dirty word.
Say it aloud now.Yes, this book can be interpreted as a creepy old man taking an unnatural interest in children.
Alternatively, it can be a wise old man passing on a marvellous way of reimagining the world around us to a new generation.
It can be thought of as a commentary on the peaceful coexistence of science and faith.Or, for those of us (like me) who just enjoyed escaping into the world of a children's book, this book is pure fun.
I first read this when I was about 12, and have re-read it at least 10 times.
My random thoughts on this book: + I think it is actually a much more poignant book to read as an adult.
+ Every time my cat sticks his rear end up in the air, I call him the High Behind Splinter cat.
+ Honestly, I probably have flashes of this book and it's great imagery more than any other book I've read.
+ This book also proves that Julie Andrews (Edwards) is just a big fluffy ball of awesome wrapped in a feathery cape of fantastic+ The above feathery cape would be made of Whiffle Bird feathers, of course.
I thought it was a groovy little story, but I most certainly would not have chosen it for an entire elementary school to read.
Really.***** ***** ***** ***** ***** ***** ***** ***** ***** ******Actually, Boy is reading this book, along with everyone else in his Elementary school, but because he is nice, he is allowing me to read it with him.
Every year the school chooses one book for the entire student body (K-5) to read collectively, chapter by chapter, in the evenings with their families.We're four chapters in and I'm enjoying this more than I expected to; Boy....not so much....but he's a boy and the book is not about baseball, so....
One of my favorite books as a child, I still adore The Last of the Really Great Whangdoodles. It's a creative fantasy that makes you think and dream. It was one of those books that got me reading independently as a kid, and I've read it several times since then.And just let me say that I can still smell marshmallows in a marshmallow-less room. :P~Kellyn Roth, Reveries Reviews
Oh yes...was back from Whangdoodleland and I have much to tell.Saw the book first at Booksale.
Wasn't able to buy it though coz when I got the chance, I couldn't find it anymore.
Oh yes...you got to travel to Whangdoodleland but juts imagining it.
There's the Prock, the prime minister of the magical land who would do everything to stop the children and the professor in seeing the whangdoodle.
If you don't mind your manners, just as the wonderful Whiffle Bird always says, then you won't be able to see the whangdoodle.Setting aside the hindrances were a lot more.
Yes, it's escapism.What kids have that make them superior to adults?It's there imagination.
I can also connect with Lindy because of how the siblings treat her.
My sister did that once or twice with me but not in as scary moments as Lindy.
It's always hard to regain the trust of someone who you got into a fight with but I think the Whangdoodle is amazing because he gives them a new chance.
I connect to him because in the past I've also fought with some of my friends but the fights never lasted forever and then after a while you regain the trust of them.
Sooooo amazing. One of the greatest kids' books ever written. And by Julie Andrews - yes, that Julie Andrews! A lady who clearly has an incredible mind and imagination. Every kid should read this book.
Maybe I've been watching too much SVU, but there's something discomfiting about a bunch of kids following a man they met at the zoo to a secluded cabin so they can go on adventures they're not allowed to tell their parents about. Luckily there's a great message - you need to believe in your dreams or your imagination or something. And science is a modern-day religion. And genetically engineering a spouse for yourself is the wave of the future. You know, good stuff for kids.
“The last of the really great Whangdoodles” is such a good book for the young and old.
The forest had humongous flowers, a river that looked like a field of diamonds, and fruits your not supposed to eat.
If only this book was made a mandatory story in schools, more people and children would want to keep our forest beautiful and restore the natural beauty they once had.The thing I liked most about this book was the wonderful imagery.
What would you do if a short, old man offered you to go the land of the really great Whangdoodles?
It was great fun describing the machinations of actually BUYING the book to my children, pre internet, massive bookstore days.
I have been known to call my children by the wrong name but just as if it were yesterday, I can remember standing at the counter paying for my book and it being placed in a small white bag with the name of the bookshop elegantly written in black.
When I recently re read this book for my 10 yr old daughters book club, I was struck at how there were Christian themes that drew the reader in.
I especially loved Professor Savant and related to him in many ways - able to be childlike, but still the responsible adult - forgiving but never letting the children get away with nonsense - leading the charge into a life of magical living - but the tenderhearted safety line when things get too scary.
In all honesty - this is was I would most like to be for the rest of my life - a magical guardian that takes children on all kinds of romps and magical adventures.
The adventure of an old professor and three little children; Benjamin, Thomas, and Melinda.
I find that stories with younger children as the main characters have such a thrill to them.
Even stories with old people as main characters are lovely, because you know it will not be some stupid nonsense story, it will have some meaning, no matter how small.
Little children have amazing adventures, beyond your wildest imagination, it makes you really have to think hard about it.
Ben, Thomas, Lindy, and even the professor are astonishing characters.
Thomas, the middle child, he teases his younger sister but loves her dearly.
(I was going to read this closer to fall, but I couldn't wait that long for a reread!) On an afternoon trip to the zoo Ben, Tom, and Lindy meet Professor Savant and their lives are changed forever.
The quartet then embark on a fantastic trip to meet a legendary creature called the Whangdoodle, who has the ability to change color and to grow his own bedroom slippers.I loved how the children learned lessons along the way, even as they meet wonderful creatures that they had never known of before.
I think it would be a fun read-aloud, a great book to discuss.
I haven't read this book in many, many years, and I had fun reading it as an adult.
(I did, however, have to suspend my concerns about the Potter children being told by the professor, a relative stranger at the time, to keep their project a secret from their parents.
A mother's perspective, I suppose.)A tale of complete fantasy that's simple and fun and sweet.
I'm looking forward to reading this to my own kids someday.I would probably give this four stars as an adult, but I remember being so enchanted with this story as a child that I have to keep my rating at five.
Clearly, I lived to tell the tale.The story starts when Ben, Tom and Lindy Potter are sent to the zoo by their parents.
The journey is filled with wondrous creatures both friendly and dangerous, but the children are now committed to finishing the journey one way or another regardless of the challenges thrown in their path.
I wish I had been able to read the book without so many questions and doubts because I do want to see things the way the Potters and Professor Savant do--I'm just not sure that way of thinking is always possible in the twenty-first century.You can find this review and more on my blog Miss Print
(Yes, I really was once a kid instead of the crusty old person I am now.) I looooooooved the book back then, and I’ve been meaning to re-read it for years — but unfortunately, I could never find my copy of the book in the depths of my childhood bedroom whenever I looked for it at my parents’ house.
Then recently, I spotted a used copy at the bookstore where I volunteer and snatched it up right away.On the one hand, it probably would have been nice for me to leave the book for an actual kid to purchase and enjoy.
On the other hand, now that I’ve finally re-read the book and written this review, I’m spreading the Whangdoodle word to everyone.
It was an almost perfect place where the last of the really great Whangdoodles could rule his kingdom with "peace, love and a sense of fun"— apart from and forgotten by people.But not completely forgotten.
Professor Savant believed in the Whangdoodle.
Only by skill and determination were the four travelers able to discover the last of the really great Whangdoodles and grant him his heart's desire.Julie Andrews Edwards, star of stage and screen, has written a unique and beloved story that has become a modern classic.
The Last of the Really Great Whangdoodles is sure to continue to delight readers everywhere.
This is such a classic children's fantasy book!
I'm kind of disappointed that I didn't get to read it as a kid, but I am glad that I found it later on.
I'm also really glad that in the end, it's a story about the Professor and the realization of his dream, rather than a focus on the kids, although they are still a big part of the story.
There are parts of the book near the ending that do get a little preachy, but it's still a fantastic fantasy read for kids and their parents/teachers.
A 3 from me, but a 4 from my six year old daughter.
At one point my daughter and I speculated on what each of the children looked like.
A fun exercise, but it spoke volumes of how little we were introduced to the characters.
Whereas the characters in "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" were richly described and had purpose to their adventures, it was never clear what was driving these children.
I know I'm overthinking for a YA book, but the point is that it CAN be done in the hands of a master.Why I've kept this book for 32 years I really can't say.
But it was fun reading it with my daughter.

I had read it many times during elementary school; it was a beloved favorite.I thought that as this is a whimsical imagination story, it would not call up images as other, more realistic books do.
Instead, I found myself living the story more than I had in a while, feeling Lindy's terror at the Prock, being in Ben's shoes as his giant bubblegum bubble burst and he fell from the sky, and understanding everyone's amazement at the Whangdoodle.
It is a great stretch of the imagination, which feels good to exercise every now and then.
:) Long live the Whangdoodles!
I love Julie Andrews and the world she has created in this book.
The one reason I am having a hard time giving this book a solid 4 stars is because of some of the narration from the professor.
The children are faced with many obstacles they must overcome, and with the help of the professor, they are able to overcome them and learn something in the process.
To me, I think those lessons are shown well enough that the professor does not need to "lecture" the children on what they just learned.
ONE OF THE GREATEST BOOKS OF MY CHILDHOOD
I've read this one several times. absolutely love it. the characters, the magic everything.
2011 review: A magical tale. 2015: I read it as a child and I still love it. I just read it aloud to my daughter and she fell in love. This book is amazing.
