https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187633.Art_and_Fear
I reread the margin notes that I've written at various times.What I love about this book is that it uses art to talk about life.
Specifically, it uses art and fear to talk about how our choice to have courage or not drives the degree of light you will manifest in your own life.
Earn it.Everything I read in this book could also apply to the art of relationship.
You could cross out the title word Art and write LOVE & Fear, and the same concepts apply.
It's specific to art,yet universal.It's an easy read, barely over a hundred pages.
It's a bit frustrating to read, the section on art and science was a disaster, perhaps demonstrating the authors complete lack of understanding of science.
They go further into neologic territory and leave the word "art" in an unusable state that lacks any coherent meaning.For an artist, the book is captivating in parts, especially in the beginning as it concerns execution and vision, and a discussion of common fears in the art making process -- excellent insights.
well it doesn't really mean anything.Anyway, it's a quick read and if you enjoy pseudo intellectual banter that lacks meaningful content then you might enjoy more of it than I
If you are in need of some motivation and don't have time to read  The Artist's Way  series (which, by the way, I also recommend), it's perfect for you.  It addresses issues like perfectionism, creative blocks, and motivation.  Here are some of my favorite quotes from it:  In large measure becoming an artist consists of learning to accept yourself, which makes your work personal, and in following your own voice, which makes your work distinctive.  If ninety-eight percent of our medical students
The Artist's Way
series (which, by the way, I also recommend), it's perfect for you.
It addresses issues like perfectionism, creative blocks, and motivation.
The risk is fearsome: in making your real work you hand the audience the power to deny the understanding you seek; you hand them the power to say, "you're not like us; you're weird; you're crazy."  
If The Artist's Way is like a super deluxe 64 ounce mocha with flavored syrup, whipped cream, and a dusting of cinnamon and nutmeg on top, Art and Fear is like a shot of espresso.
Both are like caffeine to energize your artistic career, and which you choose is really a matter of taste.
This book is about the challenges in making, or not making, art.
Making art is difficult.
Many times artists will stop making art and then feel guilty about not returning.
Or maybe fear about what others say after looking at your work.
In the end it all comes down to this: you have a choice between giving your work your best shot and risking that it will not make you happy, or not giving it you best shot-- and thereby GUARANTEEING that it will not make you happy.
It becomes a choice between certainty and uncertainty.
And curiously, uncertainty is the comforting choice."
What I mean by that is, whether you want to start cooking, gardening, dancing, painting -- WHATEVER!
I received my commercial art/graphic arts degree and even though I did not stay in my field (I hated desktop publishing, and would rather create fine art), this book has been of great help to me in pursuing art as a hobby and just for fun.I love calligraphy/lettering, abstract painting (acrylics & watercolor) & some card-making.
The other group were completely stressed out at making just that one perfect pot.Another example is the story of the dancer who was a great dancer, and did it because she loved to dance.
This book is absolutely terrible.In the first chapter, the authors claim that that art came before consciousness and that prehistoric cave painters were not conscious beings.
If the prehistoric artists lacked conscious intent to create the picture, what exactly would prompt them to paint?
Obviously, the cave artists knew the bison existed and that it was possible to create a likeness of the animal using pigments.
But not discussing creativity in a book about making art?
The great majority of it is pretentious nonsense, obvious advice like "don't worry about what other people think of your art!", or just plain wrong information that the authors try to pass off as fact.
A quick, no-nonsense, part-philosophical-part-practical examination of what it means to make art, no matter the medium, and to continue to do so in spite of its inherent challenges.
A second corollary is that it is useless to compare your art to that of other artists.With that notion in mind, the authors explore different forms of fear that lead people to stop making art, and explain concisely why each one is silly, surmountable, and ultimately up to you to overcome.
Its applications reach beyond the scope of art, and into any form of creative thought (whether in sciences, math, problem solving, etc), and should be read by absolutely everyone.
To read this book, a slim, unassuming-looking little volume, is to feel freer in admitting: I am an artist, or writer.
The book makes it clear that it is the product, and less the product, the artist's original conception of the product or the audience's review, which matters; hence, it is the process, sittin down and practicing, which matters most.
As everyone who has ever written a paper realizes, the end result has most often made so many steps away from the original conception that it is more firmly rooted in the world for having been worked over and made real than in the writer's mind.
Favorite passages:"Art is like beginning a sentence before you know its ending...tolerance for uncertainty is the prerequisite to succeeding [at making art].""Talent...is 'what comes easily'...
There is probably no clearer waste of psychic energy than worrying about how much talent you have...Talent may get someone off the starting blocks faster, but without a sense of direction or a goal to strive for, it won't count for much."[My favorite quote]"The only work really worth doing--the only work you can do convincingly--is the work that focuses on the things you care about.
It's still true, outside of the nurturing environment of art academia, the level of disinterest in art, and the artist's particular work, is a sobering blow to the artist's sense of direction and self worth.
But its also advice easily gleaned from the art blogosphere, and reads as something akin to shallow pop psychology articles.
I was expecting something revelatory for a book to be worth my time, but got a no-nonsense "stop fretting about this and that and just do your work" pat on the back.
My favorite quotes/sections from the first part:pg 3 "Even talent is rarely distinguishable, over the long run, from perseverance and hard work."pg 5 "The function of the overwhelming majority of your artwork is simply to teach you how to make the small fraction of your work that soars." pg.
15 "Imagination is in control whenyou begin making an object.
The artwork's potential is never higher than in that magic moment when the first brushstroke is applied, the first chord struck.
But as the piece grows, technique and craft take over, and imagination becomes a less useful tool.
The half graded on quantity ended up making better work pg.
um livro sobre fazer arte que não menciona em nenhum momento a palavra CRIATIVIDADE. o que obviamente conta como ponto positivo. também um livro que se faz difícil pelo que ele tem de melhor: evoca distrações. você se mete a pensar em ideias e possibilidades, e de repente passou uma página inteira e você já não lembra o que leu (estava lendo?). recomendo.
This little book is all about how you get over yourself, get out of your way and do what you gotta do. There are parts that that were relevant for me, and parts that were not, but overall one with wonderful insights, tips, and advice that would apply to everyone.
THIS BOOK IS SO AWESOME I WANT TO TATTOO IT ON MY BODY!I'm a relatively small person, but "Art and Fear" is not a long book either, so...
I just wasn't impressed by this book.Part of the problem may have been the sheer volume of recommendations I got for this little guy and to live up to those expectations it would basically have to cure cancer, so take that for what it is.First of all, there were a couple of gold nuggets in the book.
Again, this may have been relevant at the time of publishing, but I can tell you that there are schools that prepare you for commerical arts for sure.So basically, it had a few gold nuggets that got it a second star, but it really wasn't a great read.
This book was written by two working artists in 1993 to address the anxieties and concerns common to late 20th century makers of creative output such as visual art, literature, music, and performance.
Meanwhile, the artist hopes to make a living doing her own work but finds it at odds with what the marketplace demands, leaving her insecure about pursuing her intuitive art-making processes.Popular mythology casts artists as prolific geniuses made of eccentric tempers, emotional disorders, and more magical talent than everyone else.
Inundated with such forces, some artists become paralyzed or find other reasons to abandon making their work.
The long review: The authors write that the book is the result of years of discussions about what artists -- regardless of the type of art -- have in common, and they come up with some very real, practical, and spiritual (in the best way) suggestions.
They do it with such careful intelligence, compassion, and understanding that I am letting them get away with other things like capitalizing the words Art and Vision every once in a while.
This book is basically about the craft of making art -- not the craft of writing a good sentence or painting a picture or dancing a pirouette -- the craft of becoming yourself, confronting yourself, mundanely holding yourself to the task at hand.
However, it felt as if the authors were trying to stretch a five-page essay into a book; it was redundant and, after the first chapter, waffling.
It also seemed as though the book was aimed specifically towards artists looking to showcase their pieces in galleries, which isn't necessarily a failing of the book so much as a narrow target demographic.On a more personal level, I was rather frustrated that only one female artist was mentioned amongst the some twenty or twenty-five artists referenced.
It seemed like the book was aimed at male artists looking to have galleries.
Inspirational.
I like stories that are balm to my artistic lateblooming.
Calms the inner turmoil of yet another month, year, without publication.
It makes the drawersful of scribbled foolscap, of slapdash characterization, of hours of unpresentable efforts a little less of a tell-tale heart.
It makes things okay to know that the Mozarts are one every couple hundred years, yet great art gets made all the time.
Just work at it.
It is a helpful, boost of a book in the vein of Pressfield's creativity books designed to look at things pragmatically, ease the pressure, and work.
This book reminded my of Julia Cameron's The Artist's Way, but without all the parts that totally pissed me off like typos, the expression of stupid ideas about artists (although in fairness she was pointing out the stupidness) and lame exercises.
I don't have a lot of fear about making art but many of the fears described in this book, such as pleasing others, being accepted and/or understood, being perfect and so on apply to other areas of my life and probably to everyone on the globe.
This book is to the point and intelligent.
I liked it.
Platitudinous, hackneyed, jumbled. Some good ideas but not a cohesive or engaging book.
Apjausma, ka pārmaiņas ir ne tikai lietvārds, bet arī darbības vārds, mainīja veidu, kā lūkojs pasaulē.
Līdzīgu pārmaiņu pasaules redzējumā piedāvā šī grāmata - tas ir piedāvājums redzēt, ka būt māksliniekam (visplašākajā šī vārda nozīmē), ir nevis stāvoklis, bet darbība.
Turklāt darbība, kurai ir vērts veltīt nedalītu uzmanību un labāko, kas manī ir.
Viss pārējais (šaubas, bailes, kritika, fantāzijas) vienkārši neattiecas uz mani - tā nav mana darīšana.
Veltīt enerģiju kaut kam citam, izņemot sevis izvēlētās mākslas praktizēšanai, ir laika šķiešana.- Vai tava māksla būs tāda, kā Mocartam?- Nē.
Vai varu turpināt iesākto (cerot, ka netraucēsiet mani ar līdzīga rakstura nelietderīgiem jautājumiem)?
Geniuses get made once-a-century or so, yet good art gets made all the time, so to equate the making of art with the workings of genius removes this intimately human activity to a strangely unreachable and unknowable place.
For all practical purposes making art can be examined in great detail without ever getting entangled in the very remote problems of genius.Vision, Uncertainty, and Knowledge of Materials are inevitabilities that all artists must acknowledge and learn from: vision is always ahead of execution, knowledge of materials is your contact with reality, and uncertainty is a virtue.
3.5 I didn't love the tone (hints of professor-ism), but it is as it represents: a treatise on artmaking, for everyone, not just those who might call themselves artists.
One really helpful concept that will stick with me is that "work is often terrible right up to the final revision".
One can't expect an improvement after each edit like plodding up a mountain, it's just a change, and all the drafts might be awful until the final one, that makes it good.
Helps for wrestling down writing, when "nothing is working!" That's ok, it's always terrible before the last edit.
Have never read anything better on what goes into making art, for an artist. The motivations, the distracting temptations--what constitutes the only possible reward to keep at it, to keep doing it. I'm a 74 year old artist, and have gone through all the phases of despair, stopping, starting again. This book made me weep with joy. I don't know that I found much new here, new for me at this stage in my life and my art, but the confirmation for what I've struggled with over so many decades is like a blessed cool rain after a long drought.
A short, surprisingly encouraging novel for artists of all sorts. It can apply to writing, painting, drawing, graphic design, music, etc. Highly recommended for anyone struggling with doubt in their artwork. In the inspiring words of Shia;
This is a little gem of a book that I'd recommend to writers and artists of all stripes. A few sections, such as the one on the academic world, may not apply to everyone, but most of the insights are universal.
The few couple of chapters are very helpful for anyone trying to keep on, or restart, making any kind of art. The rest, aimed at full-time, professional artists (of any type) I found too dependent on shaky metaphors, misunderstanding of science and history, and filler.
All those on the left side of the studio, he said, would be graded solely on the quantity of work they produced, all those on the right solely on its quality.
It seems that while the "quantity" group was busily churning out piles of work - and learning from their mistakes - the "quality" group had sat theorizing about perfection, and in the end had little more to show for their efforts than grandiose theories and a pile of dead clay.”“Those who would make art might begin by reflecting on the fate of those who preceded them: most who began, quit.
Thoroughly enjoyed, underlined, annotated, and frequently discussed many passages in this small volume. Highly recommended! Not just for visual artists, either.
