https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87226.Crash
"Crash" John Coogan is the typical jock.
When Crash's grandfather unexpectedly has a stroke, Crash unconsciously steps back and re-evaluates his life without even realizing he's doing it.
As a result of his grandfather's illness, Crash becomes more aware of the world around him and realizes there more important things in life than breaking records in football.
I can connect because Crash and his Grandfather were really close.
I changed a lot about myself and she was a role model to me like his grandfather was to him.
They can compare how they dealt with it and how Crash changed.
نویسنده اش کاملا جری اسپینلی بود...شاید با خودتان بگویید که غیب گفتی! اما خب، آنها که از او چیزی خوانده اند، می فهمند منظورم را...+ ممنون شقایق :>
I myself am a 7th grade jock just like John coogan the main character in the novel Crash by Jerry Spinelli.
In this book I was really able to relate to the main character John.
This book is about John coogan who plays on his schools football and track team and is one of the bullys at his school Springfield middle school he likes to pick on this one kid named Penn Webb because he is a nerd and a cheerleader to.
Jerry Spinelli makes it seem like they are all you friends and relatives.
For example, I like the characterization and how Spinelli makes it so easy to understand what each character is thinking and what they want.
For example, the main character "Crash" actually feels jealous of his neighbor Penn, even though he beats him up all the time.
Crash is jealous because even though he's wealthier he doesn't like how Penn's family actually care for their son.
However, I think we all see Crash's side where we might feel a little neglected at times by our families for their work.
We all need to stop and think once in awhile how important it is to be with our families over work.
یعنی منظورم اینه که این جری اسپینلی، میتونه همون جری اسپینلیِ دختر ستاره ای باشه.
فقط این بار جان( یا همون خروس جنگی) از اول ستاره ای نیست.
مثه هیلاری توی دختر ستاره ای مثلا.
و فقط به این فکر کنی که در ازای از دست دادن یه چیزایی، چه چیزای دیگه ای به دست میاری.دوسش داشتم، مثه دختر ستاره ای نبود و هیچ چیز دیگه ای هم نمیتونه باشه، ولی دوست داشتنی بود.
و روایت ستاره ای شدنش چیز خوبی از آب در اومده بود.
و این جا ما با یک پسر ستاره ای رو به رو بودیم در ضمن:)))))
and he’s a bully.Penn Webb is small and weedy.
Penn Webb hates violence; he’s a ‘Peace’ badge wearing vegetarian.
Crash is intrigued.
And the question slowly dawns on Crash: could it be that in some way Penn is actually stronger than he is?Spinelli is a master of books about character.
In the selfish and conceited preoccupations of this kid’s life, Spinelli finds those hidden inklings of humanity which can grow into extraordinary strength and greatness.While Crash doesn’t end up the same as Penn, he does discover a new best friend.Upper primary and lower secondary boys have to read this.
And (boys, don’t look), even girls should read this.
I read this all in one sitting this morning and for the most part I was pretty into this book.
I liked it better than Spinelli's Stargirl because there was much better character development.
My main complaint about this book is that the ending felt rushed.
I liked how it ended but would have liked to see the final chapter play out over a few chapters since it seemed like one of those "easier said than done" kind of situations.
It drives me nuts when young adult authors shy away from writing about difficult conversations and instead just tell us that the characters somehow finally solved their problems.

"Crash" was about a kid who's nickname was Crash. He used to make fun of a boy called Penn Webb. I liked the book because it had detail and I felt like I was there. I recommend this book to many people who are interested to read it.

i thought the book was great!! it was a good topic for a middle schooler and i woudn't mind reading this book again in the future.
The book "Crash" by Jerry Spinelli teaches you many valuable lessons.
John Coogan a football player with the nickname Crash, bullies a boy named Penn Webb.
A bully or a friend?
A funny part from the book was when Jane Forbes (a girl Crash likes) kicks him at a dance.
I would recommend this book to people that enjoy reading books with lessons.
I think they would like this book because many people can relate to parts of it.
Will Crash change and show respect to Penn or will he continue bullying him?
Crash is rude because he only cares about himself not others.
I really liked the book because it shows that its not good to be mean to other people that are not like you.
The theme of the book is "Don't care what people think about you because everyone is different", which is what Penn W.Web did through out the whole book.
I recommend this book to people that are like crash because it shows you that even if your going through a bad time in your life doesn't mean you have to punish others.
I was just there, reading THE PERFECT SCORE by Rob Buyea, when one of the characters read CRASH.
The character who read it, loved it, and I was interested.
It.You wanna know where I was today?
You wanna know what I did at said waterpark?
I finished this book because it was just too good.I was expecting this book to be kind of like an episode of the first season of GIRL MEETS WORLD.
(Don’t get me wrong, GMW dealt with some heavy things, but the first season was *mostly* light-hearted and funny.) I was not expecting it to make me cry.Yes, I cried.
The novel Crash by Jerry Spinelli is a story of a boy that is going back to school.
Crash is a boy that is the best one in the football team.
Crash and his best friend Mike always make fun of a boy in the school.
Crash puts his uncle on the hospital because he wanted to win.
I liked this book because it is a very good, funny, and interesting book because when Abby said she's making the environment a better place for her kids on a discussion with her mom.
I recommend this book to football players that think their the best and to mean people so the book will probably change their actions.
The tittle of the book is ''crash'' by Jerry Spinelli.
This is a great book because it has very good lessons.
At the end crash had trouble weather to be webbs friend or not.
It wasn't a really hard choice for him because he knew that he would be his friend .I liked this alot because it shows that your enemy can be your best friend and to not be rude to other people unless you know there personality .
I think that unkind people should read this because it might change their personality and feelings about other people.
I would recommend this book to my cousin because I liked it and I think that she would like reading it too. I gave this book a 4/5 because I enjoyed reading it and it had lots of details also because it grabbed my attention. At first, Crash was being really rude and at the end of the book he was acting kind. In the book there are really interesting things that happen that grab your attention and make you want to read more and more.
I really enjoyed this book because I have never read a book from the perspective of the "bully" before. I think Spinelli did a great job of showing the other side of bullying, and I love when Crash has a change of heart at the end of the story. I really think that young girls and boys(especially) would benefit by reading this book. This is a must have for any school library.
This book is about a kid nicknamed 'Crash' who has to choose to be good to his best friend or to a poor kid that moves in. I liked this book because there is a lot of drama between characters. I would recommend this to people who like drama and a good story
I thought this book was great because it was funny but sad since something happened to Crash's grandpa.
worst book I ever read for school. I read it in seventh grade and mercilessly mocked it on all our homework assignments.
this book was pretty good and i liked the ending it really summed everything up like how pen and crash became friends because it seems really unlikely in the begging
i really like it it gave good suspence like what happend to scooter and how he can only say ay-bye
VERYYYY funny... really enjoyed it
This book is amazing for our upper graders in elementary school because the characters are very complex but very easy for our kids to relate to.
Crash is not unlikable, but rather, the reader pities him because we all know he wants what Penn has and envies him just as much as he enjoy making fun of him.
The reader has to feel empathy for Crash but also wish him to be better because we know he can be.
The book, as all of Spinelli's works do, heavily involve the reader.
The book that I chose to do this report on was Crash by Jerry Spinelli.
Although he does have a lot of humor the characters are not very believable.
The relationship between Crash and Penn are not very good in the beginning.
Another thing I found interesting is that there were not many characters in this book.
My favorite character in the book was obviously Crash he has a fun and interesting life.
I also liked the problem in the book Crash has to choose either the cool kids or his family and Penn.
Overall I thought the book Crash by Jerry Spinelli was pretty good.
it was a pretty good book. I feel that crash felt sympathetic for Penn Webb at the end and became best friends with him also.
Because of his grandfather's illness, Crash becomes more aware of the world around him and realizes there more important things in life than breaking records in football.
He also realize that there’s something bigger than just winning, and Penn is his true friend.I really like this book even though at first i thought this is just a book about bullying people that you hate, but toward the end i found out that this book is teaching you that its not to late to change it into a better person.I would recommend this book to people who likes to bully others.
Well in Crash by Jerry Spinelli, John was stuck with the nickname crash because he got a football helmet for christmas; he put on his helmet and ran into his cousin Bridget and knocked her over .
John kept on crashing into things.I read this book because it seemed like a good book to read.
crash is really mean at some points to Penn well tries to.Crashes real name is John but got the nickname Crash because he always is crashing into stuff.
The book was good to read I liked how they started the book.
It wasn't long after eighth grade where I too, realized how idiotic and pathetic it was to act like that, and I too became friends with people just like the character Penn Webb, Crash's best friend later on in the story.
Im not saying its terrible to be a jock, because i still love sports, but i think everyone needs to realize that everyone is equally unique and special, and has their own stories and trials.I really like how the story is based on maturation and "coming of age." Throughout the entire book you can grow up with Crash and feel what he feels and Spinelli does a good job with that.
