https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/821342.Such_Is_My_Beloved
After the first ten pages or so, which set the plot into motion, the story devolves into a series of bland set-pieces and wooden interactions.
I'm glad it ended up being good, because my wide reading in CanLit criticism had me believe this was, if not a great book, at least a worthwhile book.
All things considered, it probably is the best Canadian novel of the 1930's, and worth reading.Lastly, I'd just like to suggest that this could make a great black and white, old Hollywood style movie.
The plot involves a young, idealistic priest's attempt to rehabilitate two prostitutes, Ronnie and Midge.
With a mixture of admiration and slight revulsion we watch as Father Dowling becomes increasingly enmeshed in the lives of the two young streetwalkers.
On the other hand, he is fooling himself: He enjoys their company probably for reasons he cannot even admit to himself and makes a fool of himself over it.
As he later admits in conversation with the Bishop he has grown to "love them fore themselves" rather than from the distant, spiritual vantage of being concerned with the welfare their souls.
When Father Dowling appeals to Mr. Robison, a wealthy and charitable parishioner for help, Mrs. Robison finds out and due to her strong disapproval, Mr. Robison informs the Bishop of this potentially scandalous, although innocent relationship.
Father Dowling exemplifies Christian love, the Robisons and the Bishop are hypocrites who place Christian beliefs second to worldly considerations.
Only Father Dowling sees these girls as individuals worthy of love.
Ultimately Father Dowling loses his sanity but in a moment of clarity he offers it as a sacrifice for the souls of Ronnie and Midge.
The character of the priest was an intriguing representation of human nature and the duties we adopt in our lifetime.
The author has an ease and control over the words he chose to express the characters and plot that the reading experience became one of a kind.Even though this story was rather short, the impact it had on the reader is tremendous.
The representation of human nature, inner conflict and the ideals of duty, religion and right versus wrong have the reader question and contemplate that which we see and experience every day.
This book is actually a re-read for me.
There is a scene midway through the book that follows and outline something like this: 'The priest would read anything father Dowling recommended and then come back in a few days and say "My, isn't that author carnal?
Do you really like him?" and Father Dowling would be forced to defend a carnality in Tolstoy that didn't exist.' This is a pretty large theme in the book.
actual faith.
The faithful can see beauty and innocence in women who sell their bodies while those who appear faithful are frightened off by sin because they are scared of what they'll look like if they stay.
That vocation is this: should that which is precious, that which ignites within the individual purpose and integrity be defended and nourished relentlessly, regardless of publicly held opinion of devotion to this precious treasure?
I realize that some readers themselves will also question the nature of Father Dowling's feelings and perhaps this was Callaghan's intention, to leave readers in the role of Father Dowling's peers, also in the position to decide whether the priest was right in his unwavering faith in his love and consequent actions.
I have worked for a few organizations whose function it was to help those in society that are cast off and ignored and as such, I no longer believe in the "good nature" of mankind.
The most painful thing of all and the final straw was having the vaunted and holy United Way pull funding because it was not a "popular" cause to help the poor and youth at risk.Beyond my own life lessons however (and yes I'm bitter!) Morley Callahan is a hell of a writer and I remember being drawn to this book when I was still a naive Lit student in University.
Yes, yes, it's good to read books in other genres that you're not used to reading.
It's good to branch out to new authors.
But still, this is just crap!I'm understanding more and more now that there's good fiction, and then there's literature.
I don't like lit I guess.
I have an urgency to read so many books as soon as possible as I don't know where life will take me next.
Somehow, I feel that wasting my time on this was taking me away from something else that would have been much more enjoyable to me.
Or not, and save yourself some time.
The charming story of a young priest who finds two young prostitutes and tries to help them change their ways.
It was really interesting, you saw what others thought and what little joys made the girls happy.
But after a while it got a bit repetitive but I guess that was needed to show the desperation.
You don't know what truly happens to the girls and that bothered me.
Sad what happens to the priest though.
Sad. This got to me I guess.
The raw emotions and how if someone tries to do something right, their action doesn't always get recognized and respected.
Seems pretty progressive for the 1930s.
I have trouble not being continually jolted by the writing style, where people's expressions and emotions change quite abruptly, and a lot of people 'smile coldly'.
The young priest's relationship with the two prostitutes is quite beautiful.
A few passages in the book really highlight how, with all the changes that have happened, the problems people have today are essentially the same problems people had seventy years ago - jobs, money, social status, relationships, whether the less fortunate should be assisted by society at large or not, and whether it is insane even to try.

Callaghan is my mother's favourite author; for many years, we've argued about his worth. I decided to give him a try again, thinking that perhaps age would have opened a few doors. I was wrong. The POV changes three times in the first few pages. The sentence structure is repetitive. The plot is predictable. Perhaps the subject matter was sufficiently scandalous to be intriguing when the book was first published, but now it just seems the author dipped his foot into the topic and found it too cold to immerse himself fully.
I have been too busy to read anything but ya-lit and thesis related materil lately. I had completely forgotten what reading a book that wasn't about zombies or the apocalypse but instaed about the characters is like. This book is such a character study. Incredibly refreshing read. It takes more energy to read than the ya-books I've mostly been reading but the reward is that much more. Warmly recommend.
The story of two prostitutes who are befriended by a Catholic priest and the tragic outcomes of that man’s single minded attempt to redeem their lives.This is a novel about innocence, idealism and compassion, and also about the tendency of society unable to deal with nuance, to have a strict and narrow view of good and evil, putting it in boxes in which it must be either black or white.One of Callahan's best novels.
I really can't tell if I liked this one or not! The writing style felt so detached that it was hard to be emotionally involved, and I could never tell if I really liked or agreed with any of the characters. I cared about what happened to Ronnie and Midge, and maybe also Father Dowling by the end, though.
I didn't really know what to expect of Callaghan, but my expectations were defied. I really expected a dismal, stolid morality tale but what I got was more of a Great Depresion-era relic about love and other highfalutin ideals. The narrative was good but the ending is just short of satisfying: no disrespect to the work, but you see it coming.
I had to read this for my Canadian Lit class. As far as school reading goes, especially for this class in particular, it wasn't that bad. In fact, there were times when I was strangely drawn to it. I was curious as to what would happen to the three main characters and where their stories would go. I'm sad that we didn't really get much resolution from any of them.
It would've been better if the ending wasn't revealed in the intro..
As always, Callaghan's characters are well-developed allowing us to understand where even the vilest of characters are coming from. A very easy read with a narrative style that flows well.
I enjoyed this book but as far as Morley Callaghan goes I much preferred his book called 'That Summer in Paris'.
I could barely put it down.
I always forget how good Morley Callahan is/was.
3 1/2 really.
I enjoyed the last chapter more than I enjoyed the rest of the book.
The definitive book on love by Canada's Hemingway.
