https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7926.All_of_a_Kind_Family
In the perfect historical fiction book, which later became a series, for Jewish girls, Taylor detailed the life of a family of five girls who lived in the tenements of the Lower East Side around the turn of the 20th century.
They are parents to five girls who are all two years apart in age: Ella, Henrietta (Henny), Sarah, Charlotte, and Gertie.
In her first book in the series, Taylor takes her reader around the year to show what a traditional Jewish life was like at the time.
Taylor created the ideal historical fiction series for Jewish girls, and these books have stood the test of time.
A heart-warming, gently humorous and informative family story, and my one main regret is that I have only recently discovered Sydney Taylor's All-of-a-Kind Family and its sequels.
I love how the different Jewish holidays, how Jewish cultural and religious traditions are depicted and shown throughout the story, informatively, but with no hint of didacticism.
Recommended for anyone (both children and adults) who enjoys warm family tales, as well as anyone interested in learning about Jewish-American culture and traditions.
First re-read of this book in years uncountable.
As a little heathen child, I'd been dragged to various Christian churches by friends and cousins, and I knew (I thought) all about that religion which was boring, boring, boring.
Reading this story of 5 close and loving sisters made me envious and amazed.
I'm sure I read this book at least 30 times before I turned 14.
The picture painted with this book is full of depth and compassion and love.
The illustrations are lovely, too.It's a wonderful book.
I love the chick pea man: "Arbis!
I shouldn’t perhaps say adventures, for really this is the story of their daily lives, the daily happenings, chores, trips to the library, the little ups and down, the joys and sorrows that life brings every day―but that in itself is an adventure and I loved every bit of it.The book opens with the girls heading off to the library on Friday, the day being ‘library day’ for them.
For one, that the girls and their parents find happiness and contentment in what little they had; their means may have been modest but they lived life to the fullest within it and had their little pleasures with trips to the library, to the market, celebrating various festivals, even a day-out at Coney Island.
This is a series I reread every year.
No one else has ever captured the early 1900's in the Jewish lower side of New York like this, and it's fascinating to read about the holidays and customs and everyday life that this little troop of girls experiences.
These books are great for those who love old-fashioned stories about growing up, like the Little House, Ginnie and Geneva, Betsy-Tacy, Moffats, or Beverly Cleary books.
These authors understood that everyday life at home and in school held wonderful adventures and mysteries all their own.
One of the best books ever. I love all the little girls and Mama and Papa and their friends and relatives. The setting is amazing, too. I kinda want to go there, even though it was probably a pretty hard life. :)
I am wondering if I even read it in third grade but I don’t remember for sure, so I’m sticking with my original read date, which was when I was in fourth grade.I did a reread, something I’ve long wanted to do, mostly because the Children's Books group is reading it for one of their book clubs.
(I feel so grateful to them; now that I’ve reread it I wish I’d done so years ago, and probably more than just once.) I reread this book from March 16, 2013 through March 17th, 2013.I guessed about the couple in question, even before the plot gave me the background or any hints, but probably didn’t as an 8-10 year old on first reading.
I was hoping this might be the book I would choose to read with my grade-school grandchildren this summer, but I am not sure if it would meet the diverse needs.
I loved the family solidarity and I particularly enjoyed the traditional religious observances.
If I do choose this for the summer, I would look for a book on Jewish traditions with pictures to share with the children.
Yesterday while tending two grandchildren ages almost four and six, I read them the first two chapters of this book.
They were very engaged with the first chapter and couldn't understand how children could not own their own books.
All of a Kind Family is just so amazing! Such a sweet story of a Jewish family living in the early 1900s. So sweet and innocent. I remember reading it when I was younger and loving it, and was beyond excited when I found out it was a series. The five little girls are so adorable. Their personalities are so unique and different, yet they get along so well. A must must read for pretty much anyone! Especially girls. 6 out of 5 stars! ;)
A beautiful book describing daily life of a close Jewish immigrant family.
Having lived in Israel, the descriptions of Jewish festivals brought back happy memories of time spent with friends.
Perhaps they cost less in comparison a hundred years ago.We found it fascinating that although written over a century ago there is still much of the story that would be the same if it were written today.My daughter said it would be in her top 5 books of all time.
A little girl doesn't want to eat her food: "I'll choke on it if I eat it, ...
The family drinks wine for the first Seder night.
The family drinks wine for the first Seder night.
"Charlie quarreled with his parents about a girl he wanted to marry.
They wanted him to marry another girl.
Charlie's girl learned that his parents opposed their marriage, and she just went away." ...
Charlie was very angry at his parents and left home, left his career, old friends, and changed his name.For a full cleanliness report, which includes Romance and Parent Takeaway, visit my website.
All-of-a-kind family is a set of short stories, oh, and it is so very dated.
From taking books from the library, getting sick or cleaning the house, most stories are fine, but that is it.
Each chapter is its own, telling about a different situation and finished without having much of a storyline.It is overall cute, girls that are saving money (and the prices are funny), getting stuff for papa's birthday, or playing in Purim.
The relationships between the five girls are interesting.I do not think that anybody would publish such a book today, with a simple story about a soup tantrum, or cleaning the house.
All-of-a-Kind Family is another book I would have loved when I was younger - such a nice, wholesome story.
I still enjoyed the book very much reading it for the first time as an adult, and wouldn't mind reading more of them sometime.
I really liked that although the family was poor, they were very happy and their lack of "things" wasn't a huge issue for them like it is in some stories.
I also really enjoyed reading about the celebration of several Jewish holidays, with some details (especially surrounding Succos) that I had never known before.
And I especially liked the library lady who kept making an appearance!
Mini review.I think I would have enjoyed this more if I had read this when I was small and been less aware of the slightly stilted dialogue and characterization – but nevertheless, a sweet little book and fascinating look into the daily lives of Jewish family around the turn of the century. Definitely a book that I would share with young readers!
Hurrah! A Jewish tenement family in turn-of-the-century LES New York. My Mom can distinctly remember being in fourth grade, in her little bedroom in their trailer in Kentucky, reading this book while her Dad called her to come to dinner. If only for that, I would love this book, but it turns out the book is TOTALLY charming.
One of the great delights of my childhood, Sydney Taylor's All-of-a-Kind Family books were some of my absolute favorites as a girl, and I have read and reread them countless times over the years.
The story of a loving Jewish family living in New York City's Lower East Side in the early years of the 20th century, they chronicle both the everyday occurrences and the special occasions (whether religious or secular) that make up their world.
Recommended to anyone who enjoys well-written family stories, engaging historical fiction, fiction featuring Jewish children, vintage girls' books - in short, good reads, full stop!
Charming, sweet, heartwarming and thoughtful! This entire series is a gem. The family is so sweet, so tight-knit. While the book is a pure pleasure to read simply because you will love the family so much, it's also interesting from a historical/social standpoint to read about early 1900s America and this Jewish family's experience.
What a fabulous book! How many girls like me learned about Judaism from these books? I think it is still a great choice to read aloud or give to girls from 6 to 10. Here is a link to my review:http://perfectretort.blogspot.com/201...
These books are underappreciated! In my mind they rank with the Little House books - every little girl should read them!
TOTALLY LOVED THIS BOOK! oh my goodness! One of the best children's level chapter books ever! I have read it more than 5 times including read-aloud's to my younger siblings. Such a sweet, adorable story full of rich detail about Jewish families in the 1900's.
But as a young girl the library was one of my most favourite places to go, roam around and find my next read!I loved the every day happenings of the family and the wonderful descriptions on the book.
I loved their joy at finding books and at buying and making the most delightful games of eating their penny candy at night!One of the episodes I felt that rang more closely to my own childhood was the one about Mama's rules about the food and how when Sarah refused to eat her soup, she wouldn't be given anything else to eat.
Although this book was published in 1951, the year after I had started school, I had only read references to it or excerpts from it, until my 8-year-old granddaughter highly recommended it.
She loved Ella, Henny, Charlotte, Sarah, and Gertie, the five girls in Sydney Taylor's family that is "close and loving and loyal," where harmony prevails, where faith is lived out in every aspect of life, where life is an adventure.
Taylor wrote a five book series about this family, published over a period of 20 years.
A nice, quiet read for another sleepless night, this story of a Jewish family on the Lower East Side at the beginning of the 20th century puts the "chapter" in "chapter book"--in the sense that each chapter can be read as a unit.
That's my one complaint; there isn't really a unifying thread, or if there is, it feels chopped off at the end of each chapter, and the following one begins a completely different vignette with little to no sense of flow.
The Gentile romance thread felt shoehorned in.Interesting, particularly if the reader wants to learn about Jewish customs and holidays in a bitesize, family-oriented format.
We just enjoyed this book too much not to give it five stars. Full review here: http://www.sunlitpages.com/2016/11/al...
I love women like this mother that make me want to be more grounded and calm and solid for my children and others around me.
A lovely feeling of peace and contentment seemed to flow out form Mama to them.
First she put a napkin on her head; then placing four white candles in the brass candlesticks, she lit them.
After that Mama covered her eyes with her hands, softly murmuring a prayer in Hebrew.
The children lined up before Papa.
He placed his hand on each child's head, asking God's blessing for his little one.
(She kept asking me, however, why only the dad went to synagogue, and I wasn’t sure of the answer.) I personally didn’t find it very interesting; it’s slow-paced and not written in a particularly alluring style, and, on the heels of so much Roald Dahl and C.S. Lewis, it seemed rather bland, but it’s a great book for young girls, because it deals with so many of their little everyday trials, the small problems and concerns that loom so large for them.
It’s something to which a young girl can relate, and my daughter enjoyed having it read to her.
I don't often read children's novels, but All-of-a-Kind-Family is both a classic and a wonderful story about history, friendship and growing up in New York. There are so many classics about growing up in rural areas and on farms, but very few that take place in an urban setting like this one.
I certainly encountered a lot of "yeah, they have Christmas, but we have CHANUKAH!" moments in my childhood reading, but sometimes it's soothing to see the majority holiday not just trumped but completely ignored.It was also interesting to read side by side with All the Single Ladies, because of course so much of it is focused on marriage and home life and expectations for women in its particular era (and also arguable in the era that Taylor was writing, namely the 1950s).
All of a Kind Family is a sweet story of a family of five young girls living in NY’s Lower East Side. I loved the richness of family, the beautiful Jewish traditions the family observes and the day to day creativity the girls have in keeping themselves busied. The story line gives a refreshing break from overstimulating electronic devices to the simplicity of family life of 100 years ago. The author uses a deep vocabularly to create her story.Find All of A Kind Family at the Westminster Public Library!
A childhood favorite in desperate need of a revisit. Just thinking about those sisters on their adventures makes me smile.
