https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/306010.Postcards_from_the_Edge
Carrie Fisher died today and now the interwebs are exploding with billions of fangirls who never watched a Star Wars movie until the Manic Pixies told them they should.
(Confession: I'm not a ginormous Star Wars fan myself.) I am a huge Carrie Fisher fan, though, and it's mainly due to this book.
I read this book when I was basically a kid and Carrie Fisher became my hero.
She will eternally be an icon due to Princess Leia, but I think she should be remembered for being a fucking awesome chick in general.Read this book - or just watch the movie .

I enjoyed Carrie's first novel.
It was witty and interesting.
Suzanne is obviously based loosely on her life from other stories I have read of hers.
I feel like this was one of the first behind the scenes of Hollywood.
I'm sure there were things before this, but this was a big tell-all basically.There was the rehab portion, the looking for love portion of the book and the part where she is trying to accept normal portion.
I felt the dialogue was snappy, there were funny moments.
I enjoy the story; I was entertained.
I have 3 Carrie books left.
Fisher seeks, I think, to portray a form of herself in the Vale character, but it comes across more as a justification for acts and serves as a trivial and superficial approach to life.
If only to honour her recent passing, I will likely try the second Vale piece and see what comes of this, but I am certain to list RETURN TO SENDER on this particular postcard.Thank you Madam Fisher for your insights.
Perhaps stick to recounting stories about yourself and not using a straw man in the form of Suzanne Vale.
ok.you know that moment, at the party-you-didn't-want-to-come-to, filled with the important-people-from-work-who-don't-really-like-you, standing in the corner-of-the apartment-marked-specifically-for-losers-and-the-apartment-cat (who is now drunk and stuffed on mini shrimp popper appetizers)?
thnx)i was amused throughout, an impressive feat because the only thing more boring than reading about people doing drugs, making bad decisions, having disgustingly casual sex, and laying around gorging themselves in self pity is watching it.
Motherfucking goddam shit. Rest in peace Carrie, you were wonderful ******Get better soon Carrie, you wonderful nutbag. Am listening to Hearts and Bones and sending thoughts and strength and health in your direction.
The only thing I didn't quite like about the plot is how we heard a little about Suzanne's mom or her co-workers on the cop movie she was working on in the book.
It's a debut novel so I understand that it won't be perfect but it was still really good, but if I'm honest I could probably forget about it the more time passes.I really enjoyed listening to this audiobook as I really like Ms. Fisher's voice.
I'll definitely listen to more of her audiobooks so I can her Ms. Fisher's voice more.
Sometimes I feel like I've got my nose pressed up against the window of a bakery, only I'm the bread. In Postcards from the Edge, Carrie Fisher writes a part-fiction, part-memoirs account about the highs and lows of life in Hollywood. And by that, I mean the highs of drug consumption followed by the lows of withdrawal during the inevitable stay in rehab.It is truly fascinating to listen to the her voice spewing the most intricate, absurdist, intellectual and insightful witticisms, trying to cat
In Postcards from the Edge, Carrie Fisher writes a part-fiction, part-memoirs account about the highs and lows of life in Hollywood.
Especially in Tinsel-Town, where people quite seriously argue the merits of the Beatles over Noel Coward at a Beverly Hills soiree.The film version of Postcards from the Edge is one of my absolute all-time favorite comedies.
It was interesting to see how she worked a traditional, linear, narrative plotline out of the scattered and disjointed essays that make up these memoirs.
Fisher definitely pulled the best bits out and came out with a few additional zingers for the film.
I searched what became one of my favourite online bookstores for Carrie Fisher in the hope of finding a copy of Wishful Drinking.
And the question was, why not?Postcards from the Edge mainly follows the story of an actress who found her way to a rehab clinic after losing – almost for good – her life to drugs.
And the ending… it’s just… life.Postcards from the Edge is clever, hilarious, wise, real… all of it bottled up in simplistic, yet rather profound, writing.
For someone who suffered from drug addiction and depression, Carrie Fisher was a force to be reckoned with when it came to being in touch with her feelings.
The party scene was filled with larger-than-life assholish artistes and in one instance, I could swear Selena Warner was channeling Joan Collins.I especially like this "gee, I wished I had thought of that" gem gleamed from dialogue between friends and actresses Suzanne and Lucy toward the end of the novel:"Guys are great before you know who they are," said Lucy.
You were truly one of the greats.
I'll give it a 3.5. Not great literature, but entertaining, even if certain parts went on a bit too long. Fisher's writing style was definitely funny. I did laugh out loud several times, and not that many books make me do that.
I know at the time I read this-I just loved it- and wouldn't stop reading parts of it to anyone who would let me. Don't know if it would be the same now-but at the time I thought it was just so funny and clever.
Really enjoyed this one--lots of wry, witty lines made all the better by Carrie Fisher's great narration.
So good. In the middle, I wondered how it was going to wrap up or touch back on how Suzanne progressed throughout the novel. Very well done.
This book only furthered my belief that Carrie Fisher is a genius.
The book is NOTHING like the movie, except for a small part in the middle, but since Carrie also wrote the screenplay it is all good.
A lot of what she says in this book rang oddly true to me which was a little confronting, but only made me love it more.
I read this book in one day, so i'll wait till i move onto Surrender the Pink, but i'm sure i'll love that one too.
Funny and self-reflection are the best combo when presented by Carrie Fisher.
I think Carrie Fisher is a great writer.
She has a way of creating this characters that have a ton of flaws but are witty and real.
I think Suzanne is her - this was her outlet, this was her way of writing out her feelings and not caring if a story came out of it.
Guess Carrie wanted to have a character that was showing the effects of coke overdose.I enjoy her memoirs a lot.
While this may not be a memoir, it shows that she has knack for witticisms.
What an awful book! Sheesh....nothing but an overly long series of ramblings (yes, dear hearts, I realize the protagonist is a recovering addict & addicts are supposedly prone to rambling sometimes), but I kept waiting for a point to be made until I realized the book had ended & that possibly there wasn't going to be one. Terrible.
She's an excellent author, the subject matter just wasn't to my liking & I just couldn't get into it. I am interested in giving her other books a try, though.
“Most people dream big, you dream small. It’s just whatever you haven’t got is what you want. It isn’t the life, it’s what you do with it. So, do something regular with your irregular life, rather than trying to get a regular one, ‘cause you’d just do something irregular with that.” Driven by my fondness of the film adaptation, I grabbed this book from an on-sale bin from BookSale. I’m sure you’re all aware of the all-star cast movie; and of Meryl Streep and Shirley McLaine’s Golden Globe and O
The film, itself, was ill-received and closely-scrutinized though.The story revolved around Suzanne Vale, an actress and a rehab patient for drug addiction.
The 4th part was a third-person narrative of how Suzanne is struggling to put her life together, recovering her status as an actress, and as a person in need of a worthy relationship.
Looking past that, the story and lesson applies to most of us, struggling through rehab or not, since we are all in this ever winding process of discovering and rediscovering our purpose in life.
Not really sure there was a plot in there....anywhere. I am planning to watch the movie. I'll bet it's nothing like the book.And I was right! Watched the movie just yesterday & was amazed that the screenplay was written by the author & almost unrecognizable. Not that it was any good either!
maybe it's just me, but i didn't care about this book at all. i had high hopes, which may have been the problem. i found the characters and dialogue forgettable, and the action was limited. not impressed.
Oh, Carrie Fisher.... Such a terrible book. It wasn't poorly written, just hard to care about any of the characters, the narrator in particular. Thankfully, it's a short read so you don't have to suffer for long.
do I have this? did I read it? Hmmm... I think I bought it because I liked the movie - check packed boxes someday.
I picked this up to see what all the hype was about. I should have left it. It wasn't my cup of tea.
Few passages really jolted me with wisdom and hilarious comparison to inanimate objects added certain amount of depth to the all ready semi serious book.After an overdose, Suzanne Vale, the well known actress, finds herself in a strange place - rehab.
On her quest to normalcy she meets just about anything but that, stuck in a place with people who are stranger than the craziest cookoos, whose addictions are perfectly portrayed (just read about the typical day of self denial that Alex leads - wow) and she manages to stay out of trouble enough to be let out into the real world.
I picked-up “Postcards From The Edge” over a decade ago, a highly-regarded literary oeuvre and film.
My cinematic cover erroneously suggests the tale of an inadvertently-upstaging famous Mother, which I thought that the story was.
However, just one week ago: our world lost Carrie Fisher.
For enjoyment's sake, I couldn't give this book more than three stars but am stepping outside that, to acknowledge how well Carrie conveyed her subject and for a peculiar, original structure too.
I would by far prefer a first person memoir but received a clear look at what Carrie wished to portray.We meet Suzanne Vale journaling from a successful rehabilitation stay.
two quotations that stood out to me in this series of postcards and snapshots of sorts...regarding intimate relationships; something to consider:"My route to intimacy is routine.
It's been off the radio for a while, and then you hear it one day and it's like, 'Oh, grrrrrrrrreat!
How great to hear this again!' That's people for me." - Suzanne, 89.tonight, my yoga teacher said HAPPINESS IS NOT A POSSESSION TO BE DESIRED OR PURSUED; IT IS A CHOICE; here's an extension of that idea..."'Sometimes I'm afraid I'm happy, but because I expect it to be something else, I question the experience.
Jag har sedan barnsben varit ett fan av Carrie Fisher, då för hennes rolltolkning av prinsessan Leia i Star Wars.
Efter hennes tragiska bortgång nyligen ville jag lära känna Fisher som författare, vem skulle jag möta där?
Efter vad jag har förstått baseras Vykort från drömfabriken delvis på egna erfarenheter eller bär iaf drag från Fishers eget liv.
Jag vet inte exakt vad jag hade väntat mig men Vykort kändes lite som att läsa en dramakomedi från 80-talet, rappa replikutväxlingar, scener där en skrattar, andra där en tycker synd om.
Men till syvende och sist nöjd med att ha läst en Fisher-roman, blir garanterat fler i framtiden.
On the back of this book there's a quote which reads "It makes Moby Dick seem like a big, fat, dumb book." I mean, any competently executed, charmingly written, understated novel will make Moby Dick look big, fat and dumb--but this one doubly so. It has all the sense of urgency-in-writing that the best American novels (and the best Mountain Goats' songs) have, and a confidence in style and voice that usually comes further down the line in a writing career.
Wow. I really disliked this book. Luckily, it was a bathroom book, so I wasn't too upset. If I'd wasted actual free time reading this I would have been more angry. As it progressed it became a hate read. I had to finish it. The narrative was disjointed, there was next to no plot, and it was boring. There was a little humor in it which I expected from Carrie Fisher but not enough to turn my opinion.
