https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/637330.We_Took_to_the_Woods

This book made me want to take to the woods, to wear my comfy clothes with no waistbands, to not fight the winter, to cook creatively, to enjoy my house and its surroundings, and to live simply. Though the story preserves some quaintness from a less modern time, Louise Rich still appeals to the modern reader.
He tells the girls of his dream to spend the rest of his life roughing it in the Maine woods.
The lakes then are unbelievably blue."Each chapter starts with a question she has been asked by incredulous friends and curious visitors: 'Why don't you write a book?'; 'But how do you make a living?'; 'But you don't live here all the year 'round?'; 'Isn't housekeeping difficult?'; 'Aren't the children a problem?'; What do you do with all your spare time?'; 'Don't you ever get bored?'; Aren't you ever frightened?'; Don't you get awfully out of touch?'; 'Do you get out very often?'; 'Is it worth-while?'To that last question, is it worth-while, Louise writes: "Discontent is only the fear of missing something.
I found the first half of the book interesting, but the later chapters seemed to be more of the same. It was a nice winter read, and my copy is an old one with a picture of snowy woods on the dust jacket, so it was visually appealing as well.
Rich's memoirs of her time living with her family in the Maine woods are well-written, funny, and meaningful.
Several people had recommended Rich's novel to me because I am also a big fan of Thoreau's writing, and indeed, found many similarities here.
Rich did live a Thoreau-like existence, and in some ways her novel is a more modern "Walden".
Rich, like Thoreau, makes her tale of living in the woods something more profound than mere personal accounts.
Rich alludes occasionally to World War II, which was rapidly changing her society, and wonders also about whether, in the future, people will still value undeveloped spaces and natural beauty.
She Took to the WoodsA review of Louise Dickenson Rich’s tale of family life in the great northern forest of Maine, ‘We Took to the Woods.’Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,And sorry I could not travel bothAnd be one traveler, long I stoodAnd looked down one as far as I couldTo where it bent in the undergrowth; The Road Less Traveled- Robert Frost“For there are some people who can live without wild things about them and the earth beneath their feet, and some who cannot. To those of us who, in
She Took to the WoodsA review of Louise Dickenson Rich’s tale of family life in the great northern forest of Maine, ‘We Took to the Woods.’Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,And sorry I could not travel bothAnd be one traveler, long I stoodAnd looked down one as far as I couldTo where it bent in the undergrowth;		The Road Less Traveled- Robert Frost“For there are some people who can live without wild things about them and the earth beneath their feet, and some who cannot.
Louise Dickinson Rich was an incredibly practical woman, and I mean that as a compliment of the highest order.
Honest about her own shortcomings, fair to those she disagreed with, and generous to all, Louise herself won me over easily.
I deeply wish that I could hear her tell one of the folksy backwoods anecdotes she relates in the book in person, preferably in her summerhouse, with the roar of the river surrounding us and one of those cups of hot coffee she was forever making in my hand.
When I finished the book, I felt like a good friend was leaving after a nice long visit.
Soldiers actually carried it in their kit to fuel their dreams of peace and solitude.The book describes the Riches' life at Forrest Lodge, a house that is perched high above the Rapid River.
Louise Rich wrote many, many books and stories, and they are all good.
I live in Maine and three years ago, I was able to visit Forrest Lodge.
We went the length of this gorgeous, undeveloped lake to Middle Dam. We then clambered into an old Suburban and bounced over the Carry Road to Forrest Lodge.
The property is relatively unchanged since the Rich's lived there.
The hungry foreman tells her the time the crew will break for lunch and Louise sets a timer.
The hungry foreman keeps sneaking up and moving ahead the hands on the clock.
Louise, sly to his hovering, moves the hands back, only even further in time.
She brews coffee and bakes the salmon in butter over a campfire of birch bark that she's made herself; boils the potatoes, makes quick bread and goes about setting all on a plank table she's fashioned.
Meanwhile her toddler son is eating leaves off the trees ("which may or may not be edible"), and the foreman keeps sneaking up to move ahead the timer.
I read on an Amazon review that We Took to the Woods was the real deal compared to Anne LaBastille's "Barbie-doll-like" accounts of living in the wild.
I have to agree, though I like Anne.Louise Dickinson Rich wasn't wealthy.
And Louise Dickinson Rich was a writer by trade, naturalist by passion.So of course you're going to get better prose than Anne LaBastille (sorry, Anne) and less soap-boxing.Killer Quote:"Happy people aren't given to soul searching." You said it, sista.
Louise Rich's account of her life in backwoods Maine during the 1930's and 40's was filled with insightful, witty and meaningful observations of what it takes to live this kind of life and how much she really loved it.
I enjoyed all 11 chapters with their cute, questioning titles such as:Chapter IV: Isn't Housekeeping Difficult (Louise says: NO, as she's no housekeeper).Chapter V: Aren't the Children a Problem (to which Louise quips: Aren't children always a problem, no matter where you live?)Chapter VIII: Aren't You Ever Frightened?
Loved this. Another book I won't part with. Another autobiographical account of a woman's life in a time and country long gone. Not feminist, simply an account. Simply written and a lovely way of life recounted. Another read that makes me fear I was born in the wrong time, envious of a more simple, even if more difficult (compared to today's standards) , way of life. I wish I'd been able to personally know the author, she was a Classy Broad.
This book is delightful. It chronicles six years in the remote Maine woods in the 1930s. Rich has a wry sense of humor and insight into people. I also loved the classic Maine terms (which I had never heard until I moved to Maine 32 years ago) like "jeezly" and "culch." I highly recommend this book.
Just a wonderful, delightful book about a life well lived. Something to take lots of inspiration from.
I bought this last year at the AAUW book sale in State College, PA.
Louise provides a vivid and entertaining narrative of backwoods living in rural 1930's Maine.
Louise has a distinct voice, one of humor and good naturedness, but opinionated.
And those opinions are relative as much today as they were 80 years ago.
I was fascinated by the glimpses of the logging life of the surrounding camps and the glimpses of daily living on a shoe string budget...
but mostly I was in awe of how well Louise and her husband adapted to life in the woods cut off from the modern world for entire winters.
Louise Dickinson Rich manages to do what few people can do: write about the mundane in a way that interests even urban folk who know next to nothing about country living.
We Took to the Woods  is Rich's first autobiographical book about living in the woods of Maine in the 1930's.
Rich talks of 'making do' with what she has, since she lived in the wilderness without easy access to stores and supplies.
When things broke, she and her husband and helpers had to fix, mend, rig up makeshift repairs with whatever supplies they had on hand.
It’s easy to see why after 75 year since it was first published this book is still popular. It gives a snap shot in time of what life was like living in the woods. At times the book reminds me of Walden Pond
So many ribbons marking the spots that engaged me and call me to return and reread...
So enjoyed seeing this view of a familiar region through the lens of a different time.
When I first read this book I lived in moderate climate Pacific Northwest and could not imagine daily life in that setting.
I FEEL Louise Rich these days over 75 years later.
This book is an absolute gem to anyone who loves reading about simple life - returning to the land - living off the land.
If you put it next to any homesteading book written in the past 20 years, it matches surprisingly well.
She takes her life of living in the Maine backwoods and MAKES you want to put on a backpack and hike in to visit her.
She has a good amount of thoughtfulness mixed in to fact-telling, and with little gems such as this:  "So we have our fifteen minute dose of everythings-going-to-hell each evening, and the rest of the day we try to forget about it.
I think I'll probably be buying a copy of this to own and re-read when I want a peaceful, comfortable telling of a person who is fully content to be doing what they're doing, and that so happens to be living in the Maine woods - a place I wouldn't mind being myself.
They just liked living in a wild, natural place -- in this case, the backwoods of Maine -- and were perfectly content to enjoy each other's company, along with their hired hand and their two children.
Louise writes entertainingly about the other backwoods folks in their community, plus the "sports" who came to visit -- their name for the city slickers who came in the summer to hunt and fish.
The book was written in 1942, and I felt so sad when I learned her husband had died suddenly just three years later.
Louise went on to a long and successful career as a writer, but this was her first book.
I liked this.
Yes, it is a tad dated and sometimes the narrative seems a little childish but overall it was a wonderful story.
Part of what was rewarding is that I'm very familiar with the area in which it takes place, adding to my positive experience.
I also gravitate to tales about people living in extraordinary situations.
And, I love tales about nature.
The only negative comment I would have is that while it did have a beginning and a middle it really didn't really seem to have a finish.
The information at the end wraps up the story of this family but it was a 3rd party and wasn't completely satisfying.
I stumbled across this book during a sleepless night while staying at my parent's house in Maine last week.
I am wary of homesteading books that write from a sentimental, self righteous perspective, and was thrilled to find this book to be the polar opposite.
My family roots are in Northern Maine, so perhaps that helps to explain the connection I felt with this memoir.
Whatever the reason, now that the book is finished I am mourning the loss of a old friend and am left wondering how I will fill the hole (which to me is the absolute best kind of book!).
There's not much more that can be said about this book, probably up there with the top 10 memoirs of the 20th century. It's never, ever been out of print, which says a lot! If you read it, you'll feel like it was written yesterday and not in the 30's, such is Rich's tone---clear and humorous and ageless. For anyone who has dreamt of living it all behind and living in the woods, this is a book not to be missed.
Love this book on so many levels. Delighted to have found a copy on the sale shelves of my local friends of the library & can't wait to share it with my friends. A must for anyone who enjoys homesteading, memoirs, or just good story-telling. Mrs. Rich is a wonderful companion: forthright, humorous and sharp-sighted. Her occasional poetic flights in the midst of otherwise workmanlike writing are a heart-opening delight.
One of those books where I like that it exists a little more than I like actually reading it. A great voice detailing a great existence. But you have to be really hungry for the details of primitive living in the woods to keep from skimming big chunks. Still, a rich nourishing friendly read.
This is a book I will read more than once. Times have changed but what I really enjoyed most about this book was the connection with and love of nature - that is timeless.To live in a place where we are completely content and comfortable is truly a gift.
About half way through - it's wonderful!
She writes about lumbering, fishing, small town life in New England, "sporting" types who come to the local camps for vacation and adventure, day to day things like how she cooks for her family and the various people who drop in, medical care, clothing, etc.
As an aside, I read an article about her stepdaughter that indicated their lives were actually much more difficult than she described.
Maybe the daughter felt that way in hindsight, maybe the author just had a more positive outlook, or maybe she was putting a sunnier spin on things to sell books.
