https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1275105.A_Charlie_Brown_Christmas
Surrounded by all the trimmings of the Christmas season, Charlie Brown senses that something is missing. What is Christmas all about? Is it really just about the presents? Or the lights and other decorations? The season has become so commercialized, so he sets out to find the true Christmas spirit. With his friends, he discovers the reason for the season. Whether you read the book or watch the movie, it’s a classic children’s story that is a Christmas tradition in so many homes.
i really like this book well because it is about me. HAHAHAHAHA lolololol. -Charlie Brown- plez reply
This was cute! My students love reading Charlie Brown stories. At one point the book jumped around a little bit and confused them.
It's my favorite Christmas movie ever, so, of course, this must be one of my favorite Christmas stories to read as well. It's the story of a little boy (surely you know this) who doesn't quite feel the Christmas spirit and who doesn't do anything right, but is, nevertheless, put in charge of the Christmas pageant. In the midst of all the hustle and bustle of Christmas, the wanting of presents and the buying of things and the decorating, the true spirit of Christmas pops up, for just a minute, but it is enough to change everything.
A wonderful little book about the real meaning of Christmas in a cute little book, perfect as a gift. Who could not love The Peanuts?!
"You were supposed to get a good tree. Can't you even tell a good tree from a poor tree?" Lucy asked."You're hopeless, Charlie Brown!" added Peppermint Patty.  Lucy may be mean but at least she's original (though a tree elitist). Peppermint Patty is such a lemming. Ugh, girls can be so self-righteously mean. If Charlie Brown wants a smelly old sock for a Christmas Tree he can very well have a smelly old sock for a Christmas Tree. It may be about materialism or consumerism on Christmas, but its
"You were supposed to get a good tree.
Can't you even tell a good tree from a poor tree?" Lucy asked."You're hopeless, Charlie Brown!" added Peppermint Patty.
Lucy may be mean but at least she's original (though a tree elitist).
Peppermint Patty is such a lemming.
Ugh, girls can be so self-righteously mean.
If Charlie Brown wants a smelly old sock for a Christmas Tree he can very well have a smelly old sock for a Christmas Tree.
It may be about materialism or consumerism on Christmas, but its also about choices and respecting them.
Learn it, kids.
“Glory to God and the highest, and on Earth peace, goodwill toward men... That's what Christmas is all about, Charlie Brown” probably some of the most important words ever written in a Children’s book or spoken on a Christmas TV special. This miniature set contains a storybook, Linus’ blanket, a red ornament and that sad, lonely tree; making this a truly wonderful holiday gift. I was given this set as a gift from my wife and my daughter. I knew right then and there that they loved me and as a family we knew the true meaning of Christmas!
OMG! OMG! OMG!!! A CHARLIE BROWN CHRISTMAS IS FREE FOR KINDLE!!!There really is a Santa Claus! Or is it a Kindle Claus? Doesn't matter, IT'S FREE!!!!!!!!!!http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00A... Edited to add another OMG!!! I haven't been this excited in I don't know how long! WOOOOOOOOOOOOOT!!!!
I received this book as a Christmas gift (thanks, Emily!) and know I will treasure it always.
Excerpts from Charles Schulz interviews and the rest of the collaborators piece together the story of how they all came together to work one of my favorite Christmas specials.
What makes this such a great gift is that not only do you get a better sense of the people who created the animated film, you also get to see the process.
Loads of sketches and storyboard pics are included as well as the music and lyrics to Christmas Time is Here and Linus & Lucy.
This is a book I own, that I read to my son's when they were little boys.
I'm looking for Christmas books to read at our Nativity Event next weekend.
I found three of my own Christmas books to read.
Three of my little grandchildren were here yesterday, and this is one of the books they asked me to read to them.
My book is a 1965 edition.
The grandchildren enjoyed this book once more, as did I.
December 29, 2015Our grandchildren were here today, and asked me to read A Charlie Brown Christmas.
It was lovely to share this book with them once again.
I've always liked Charlie Brown, so I was happy to read this book.
The story talks about the commercialization of Christmas.
All the kids talk about what they wish for, while Charlie Brown is feeling despondent because he is searching for a deeper meaning.
The kids put on a play in which Linus recites the true meaning of Christmas.
It is a good story, but unless you have 20/20 vision, you won't be able to read this book in kindle format.
The story is 3 stars, pictures a 3 stars, but the formatting would be a 1 star.
Awesome.
I can remember watching all of the Charlie Brown television specials and reading all of the comics.
He never got to kick the football and Lucy was so mean to him.
Of course Lucy was mean to everyone.
It is amazing how the A Charlie Brown Christmas special came to be created.
Coca-Cola was not sold on the documentary but instead was looking for a Christmas special and thus A Charlie Brown Christmas was created.
This book gives a nice insight into Mr. Schulz's life, the comic, the characters, and everything else Charlie related.
Livro infantil mais que fofo...
A must read every year during the holiday season. Always 5 stars!
This is a sweet Christmas story about Charlie Brown feeling sad at a time when he thinks he should be happy.
He told Linus, "I just don't understand Christmas.
But I always end up feeling sad." He joined in the Christmas play and brought a tiny little tree that he thought was perfect but everyone else laughed at it.
During the play he realized what Christmas was all about and felt happy.
His friends saw it and decorated it with the decorations from Snoopy's dog house.
Charlie Brown saw his beautiful tree and realized it was a true Christmas miracle.
Every now and then a person wants to read a book that makes them feel light-hearted. This happens to me after reading a heavy themed novel. The Peanuts Christmas book and television special are a classic that elevate my spirits. I love The Peanut characters, the drawing style, and the message and always will.
Great story. I got the free kindle version. But the letters are very hard to read and for some reasons, you can't enlarge them. I couldn't read it on my kindle because of that, but I read it on my cloud reader from kindle. I was able to see the letters a little better. The pictures make up for this though, they are very beautiful. Would recommend it but not on the kindle.
Charlie Brown gets 5 stars!
The kindle version did not allow for the letter size to be increased, making the verse unreadable. The pictures were nice, but really!
Classic
A beloved classic. I looked forward to the animated movie on the television every year. Awesome to get it free and enjoy it in print.
Probably one of my most favorite Christmas stories ever! Delivered in true Charlie Brown fashion and plainly states the true meaning of Christmas.
Woohoo! Kindle Freebie!
Who doesn’t love A Charlie Brown Christmas?
It tells the story of how the beloved Christmas special came to be- with great personal stories from people who knew Charles Schulz both professionally and personally.
This book also has some great photos and includes the entire script of A Charlie Brown Christmas.
I loved the section about composer Vince Guaraldi, the master behind the music of the special.
The bottom right corner of each page has a small drawing and if you “flip” through them, it’s a scene from A Charlie Brown Christmas.
This is a great book for any Peanuts fan!
I like this story.
Had to pick-up a couple of things at Walmart, saw this Charles M. Schulz classic in the book section and took 5 minutes to re-read it for umpteen's time. Always liked it, at Christmas time usually watch the Grinch, Olive, the Other Reindeer (highly recommend if your a Jack Russell Terrier fan) and will read A Charlie Brown Christmas while shopping. Had this as a Kid, don't know whatever happened to it. Its a classic that great for any age.
Would have been better if they hadn't truncated Linus' story about Christmas' true meaning.
This book tells the story of the Peanuts' Christmas. We all know that wonderful Christmas special that is one of the hallmarks of the Christmas season. Unfortunately, the text here seems to trivialize the story. It's a hollow form of the awesome episode we all know. On a positive note, however, the graphics that accompany this are top-notch! I suspect the images are Schultz's work and the text is someone else's.This book is inscribed by my students from 2009-10. Denise arranged this very nice gift for me.
I got the mini book and tree version of this book as a stocking stuffer. The kit comes with Charlie's little tree made of plastic with a balsa wood stand, two plastic red ornaments, and Linus' blanket to use as a tree skirt. The tree ends up being about 2 - 3 inches tall. The tree only branches out on one plane giving it a flat look and doesn't stand up too well in the wood stand. You definitely don't want to jostle it around. A cute stocking stuffer but not for little kids because of choking hazards.
