https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32627.Everville
The other great thing about this type of sequel is that the author doesn't fall into either trap by summarizing everything from the first one or introducing totally new material with the assumption that we have just finished the first book.
He seamlessly reminds us of the important things we must remember from the first book but in a way where I don't feel like he is totally insulting me by rehashing it or to the detriment of someone who didn't know there was a prequel.
Joe was a vibrant character, stubborn, sweet, sexy; even when he was without Phoebe.Reading these books I wish Quiddity were real.
Everville, along with its predecessor The Great and Secret Show, is an all-encompassing, life-affirming journey through the wicked and fantastical. This novel is, literally, beyond my ability to review. Just read it.
Είναι σκληρή δουλειά να προσπαθείς να σώσεις τον κόσμο από την καταστροφή κι ο Barker ξέρει να βασανίσει τους ήρωες του βάζοντας ατέλειωτα εμπόδια και ηθικά διλήμματα.
Αριστοτεχνική αφήγηση για ακόμη μια φορά που δημιουργεί παραισθησιογόνο σασπένς, εξαιρετικοί χαρακτήρες που αναδιπλώνουν υπέροχα τις αρετές μα και τα ελαττώματα της ανθρώπινης φύσης και πολύς -μα πολύς- θάνατος.
Βιβλίο του Barker είναι άλλωστε.
Παρά την ατμοσφαιρική και κλειστοφοβική εξιστόρηση όμως, ο συγγραφέας εδώ νομίζω κουράστηκε ή βαρέθηκε στην πορεία.
Μένει μόνο να δούμε αν άραγε θα γραφτεί ποτέ το 3ο και τελευταίο μέρος της σειράς...★★★½
Κλασικό έργο του Clive Barker, a.k.a. γεμάτο από τέρατα, ανθρώπους "ιδιαίτερους", Θεούς και το τέλος του κόσμου να πλησιάζει ανελέητα, όλα αυτά σε μια κατά τα άλλα ...
αδιάφορη πόλη της Αμερικής!
Και με σεξουαλικές σκηνές ιδιαίτερα...
πειστικές!!!Σημαντικό ότι το βιβλίο είναι συνέχεια του Μεγάλου Μυστικού Θεάματος με πολλούς ήρωες να εμφανίζονται σε εκείνο το βιβλίο.
Προσωπικά - επειδή δεν το είχα διαβάσει - ένιωθα ότι κάτι έχανα από τους ήρωες, οπότε καλό θα ήταν ο αναγνώστης να διαβάσει πρώτα το Μεγάλο Μυστικό Θέαμα για να κατανοήσει καλύτερα την ψυχοσύνθεση των ηρώων.
You have to start with The Great and Secret Show but as soon as you start Everville you are surrounded by old friends and enemies. One of my favorite books of all time!
Everville is a uniquely wonderful book.
I’ll just say this- you must read it.
(You’ll have to read the first book ‘The Great and Secret Show’, to get to this one.
But it’ll be worth it because the shortcomings of the first book are seen nowhere in this one.) The characters are interesting and likeable.
Such is the power of the plot that the book doesn’t rely on your attachment to its characters to keep you going.‘Book of the Art’ is an unfinished trilogy...
Nevertheless, Everville held its own story.
And I'm so glad I read this.
One of the first books I read outside of school.
After spending my summers hunting bullfrogs and watching Welcome Back Kotter on Canadian television, this book rocked my world.
I had listened to Cannibal Corpse before reading this book, so I was acquainted with vile concepts.
I didn't read The Great and Secret Show until a few years later, and many of the problems I had with Everville were resolved when I finally did.
I love both, but Everville was my first, and for that reason I love it more.
I can see why some people might enjoy this book, and the writing was good enough. However, I finally gave up when I realized I didn't care about any of the characters, and it was making me depressed. I have better things to do with my time.
Ako mi je Utkani svet bio čaša hladnog piva onda bih ovo mogla da stavim pod veoma mlako da ne kažem toplo pivo.Obećavajući početak i zanimljiv kraj ali između poprilično viška stranica.
utterly forgettable follow up to The Great & Secret Show
Review to come, might change to four stars.
Most of the characters introduced are unappealing and the ones that return from The Great and Secret Show no longer have their previous interest level.
In fact, Barker seemingly brings characters back to to kill them off--which doesn't mean anything really, I suppose, since death is a transition to a new existence in the Art Books.
But then, on page 343, Barker makes the following statement: "...in a week his defenestration would be an embarrassing memory..."This word is #1 on my short list of favorite words in the English language.
The year of 1994 saw the first publication of Everville - The second Book of The Art. Following on from the awesome novel 'The Great And Secret Show' (1989), 'Everville' is the second installment into the proposed trilogy.
The story of Everville stands well as a story on its own, and can indeed be read without having read the first book, but it does work best as a sequel.
The storyline becomes more intense and fast-paced, with the complex ideas and principals of the novels forming a powerful underlying basis to the book.
Excellent follow up to "The Great and Secret Show." Where the other was more guts and gore, this novel was complete fantasy, reminded me a bit of "Weaveworld" and the movie "What Dreams May Come." I love Clive Barker's imagination and characters. I did notice that his hetero-relationships were romanticized, while the few gay characters seem to have more gritty lifestyles and love lives. I don't know if this distinction was made consciously, but it did bother me once I noticed the strong contrast. Nevertheless, a great read.
It’s a breathless fantasy story that mingles horror and romance in the most sensual way and in a span of chapters was able to blend of eroticism and terror in the kind of prose that makes Barker’s narrative style definitively enigmatic.There are many sublots that are entangled between and among each other so I really advise that your breaks between reading this book are not as long as mine in order to sustain your grasp on the stories and characters and you’ll be more enthralled with the conflicts that follow after in doing so.
I read 200 pages of characters eating and screwing.
After five pages about eating fish out of Quiddity just to reach another sex scene, I threw the book across the room.
How many ways can Clive Barker describe a dick?
I’m not sticking around to find out.
I found all the characters unlikeable yet none of them disagreeable in any unique or compelling way.
Clive Barker can write astounding tales of brutality and invention.
Yeah, this is a DNF, but I’m rating it because of the misery I went through just getting as far as I did.
I love Clive Barker's fantasy, but this baby just didn't work for me. He betrays some characters from the first book (Great And Secret Show) while somehow managing to make its main protagonist, Tesla Bombeck, even less likable. Owen Buddenbahm (forgive my spelling here, I have not read this book since 1995) and his lover, Seth, do not make interesting villains. I was happy when this book ended, and a little puzzled with disappointment.The greatness that Barker is capable of (see Weaveworld, Imajica, and The Thief Of Always) does not present itself here.
This is my first Barker book! I'm soooo excited! It took some persuading, but me mom eventually agreed to let me buy it. I've read a total of 6 maybe 7 paragraphs so far, and it is GREAT! I feel hopeless already! (That's a good thing.) And now, too much of a good thing can be bad. Clive Barker is damn creepy. I'm going to cool off with lighter, thinner reads.
I really did not enjoy this book. I groveled to myself thee entire way through...when is this going to end. I read it because it is Clive Barker and a sequel to The Great and Secret Show but not his best, perhaps worst, in fact, work yet.
“Maybe the best journey’s are ones with no return tickets”Everville by Clive Barker is the Second Book of The Art and continues on with the story from The Great And Secret Show.Instantly after the first few chapters we are reunited with some of the best characters from the first book.
The despair, love, hatred, hope, sacrifice and dread were only a few of many themes that run through this book that kept me reading on and each of them expressed in a unique disturbing yet beautiful way.Everville for me is an excellent continuation of the story about Quiddity and The Art. As always the disturbing and grotesque imagery is still present as well as the incredible imaginative events that take place.

Tesla, heroine of the first book, carrying the soul of Raul within her, stumbles into town; Kissoon, crazy magician and seeker of the Art, starts a killing spree across the USA; The Death-boy rises from the Dead to seek his sister; Buddenbaum, immortal storyteller, has his own plans for the town; Pheobe, dragged into the whole thing; Joe, her lover, accidentally travelling through the door.
Because the Door is still open and the Iad are coming through to destroy our world.Fast paced and a good read.
Barker's biggest fear with this book was a "Two Towers" complex; or, perhaps an "Empire Strikes Back" complex, suggesting that he was afraid the middle book of his trilogy would be like most middle books: a bridge, and nothing else.
He overcomplicates the story with characters that don't really need to be there, whose relationship to the story is suspect at best, and his apocolyptic ending sort of just fizzled out like a flat Coke, sort of disappointing.
And don't ask him when the third book of the trilogy is coming out, his answer will be the same.In the end, I like "Empire Strikes Back" the best.
Everville breaks the rules but it probably shouldn’t.As a young man, I read a lot of Clive Barker.
I think mainly I was drawn to him due to a 1-sentence endorsement from Stephen King, which said, “I have seen the future of horror and its name is Clive Barker.” Being an avid King fan, I picked up some of his books and got reading.
Then I read the book.Everville wasn’t for me.
Barker did break a lot of rules.
I don’t believe I have any more time for Clive Barker in my reading future.
Everville is the sequel to The Great and Secret Show.
I will give you one recommendation though...DON'T READ THIS WITHOUT READING 'THE GREAT AND SECRET SHOW' FIRST!!!BriefOn a mountain peak, high above the city of Everville, a door stands open: a door that lets onto the shores of the dream-sea Quiddity.
Everville is less of a sequel to Barker's The Great And Secret Show than it is another story set in the same split-down-the-middle universe.
This time, the dream-sea of Quiddity is not the destination, but a central scene, as new characters Phoebe and Joe criss-cross the dimensonal rift to find each other.Meanwhile, in the titular town, Owen Buddenbaum and Secret Show's Kissoon butt heads in pursuit of an icon buried underneath Everville's crossroads, where its been soaking up power like a ni-cad battery.
Along the way, small-town secrets come to the fore, blood is squirted, guts flung about, and general hijinks ensue.The problem with most of Clive Barker's books is that they're too verbose; he could give Tad Williams a run for his money.

It's really hard to quantify how much I love Clive Barker's writing.
In the second book of The Art - he manages to make a story that is drastically different than The Great and Secret Show, but it still has all of the same core concepts.
I'm normally not one for love stories - but this one was welcome.
The love story between Phoebe and Joe was interesting - and not in that usual "Oh Clive" way.
I am rarely taken by surprise when I read - I usually figure out the twists and turns...
I can't wait for the next book of The Art to come out!
This is horror.
Even with his vivid and sometimes ahem, detailed descriptions, Clive Barker does NOT just go splatterpunk in this or any other.This one is also an existential and philosophical novel (maybe that was repetitive).
I love how fully drawn out even the evil characters are, all done so well and without apology or excuses.
I cannot say enough about how excellent this series is and I cannot wait to move on to The Scarlet Gospels.
Do yourself a favor and read Clive Barker.
Even if horror is not your genre.....this man writes literature.
I read this coming straight from The Great and Secret Show, and I found the sequel to be a little below the level set by the first volume. Overall, the story does continue in the same vein as before but with additions or subtle differences that seem to differ from what was initially told. As an example, the waters of Quiddity no longer seem to have the transforming effect seen before. To me, these details are a little disturbing. Still, it's definitly worth reading. I just wish Clive would finally finish get his hands on finishing the trilogy!
