https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/279645.The_Rise_of_the_Novel_Updated_Edition


The Reading Public and the Rise of the Novel: audience not such a wide cross-section as, say, Elizabethan drama, and not "popular" as half-penny ballads, chapbooks abbreviating romances, etc.
Defoe's audience, the trading classes: economic individualism and secular puritanism.
(44)Richardson's audience, women.
Richardson qualifies Clarissa's exemplariness by her moral smugness--a brilliant stroke.
Fielding and the Epic Theory of the Novel.
In Hegel's Philosophy of Fine Art he regards the novel as manifestation of epic in the modern concept of reality.
In Grandison, Lady Brandshaigh says epic poets propagate false honors, false glory and false religion.
Some reasons for my ug-ness.1. Anyone which makes some random comparison to D. W. Griffith's skill in moviemaking (when it doesn't really have that much to do with the subject at hand) to show off your knowledge just shows you're a racist.2. I hate books which assume everything ends and begins with England and dead white men and ignores the rest of the world and the other genders.
This is not an attack on Fielding's sexism, or Richardson's prudery, or Defoe's avarice; it is an attempt to understand the authors' attitudes towards the relationships of men and women, and the relationships of economic individuals.Watt asks fundamental questions, and then tries to answer them, a refreshing approach 50 years after publication.
He gives arguments for *both* Defoe's relationship to individualist capitalism, *and* the form that his works take; both the context of Richardson's sexual politics and the literary reasons for his using the epistolary form; Fielding's 'conservatism' and the influence of neo-classicism on his novels.I disagree with many of Watt's conclusions, particularly with regard to Richardson's 'progressivism' and Fielding's 'conservatism.' Watt seems to rely too much on realism as a criterion for judging the success of the works in question, and this leads him to argue that Fielding's works are more class-bound than they are).
It's a good reference book for those who are interested in the "rise of the novel" (in 18th century England to be precise).
Even though it was written 50 years ago, it is still relevant in novel studies and also accessible for the non-academic.
While this study can be challenged and expanded to include authors from outside the dead white male canon (which I am given to understand has happened), this book still remains a useful tool in critically analyzing some very well-known English novels.
He argues that the novel emerges as the consequence of a distinctly new set of social and economic conditions associated with the advent of Western Modernity: the individualist orientation initiated by the Reformation and the writings of Locke & Descartes (as opposed to the traditionalism of the classical and medieval world), the rise of a middle class (with leisure and money to read), the emergence of Capitalism (with its highly sophisticated division of labor), and the legacy of the Protestant Reformation (especially in its Calvinist (and therefore highly introspective) expression).
The Rise of the Novel by Ian Watt is a classical study of history of the novel, or it is better to say its genesis in England.
He also explains different types of their narration type from historical, sociological, economical, and biographical aspects while comparing and contrasting their themes and techniques of narration.
This book is a good beginning to study the history of novel from different aspects although it is not that much about the narration itself as it is the concern of formalists and structuralists.
Moreover, it is really informative about different backgrounds that resulted in the emergence of novel.
Others will howl about the anglo-centeredness of the claim pointing to a range of long works which should be considered the first novel.
It also misses the point that it was from this work that the vast and ubiquitous novel, now the genre of choice throughout the globe, sprang.
And none did so in such a way that there followed a whole range of innovators who would go one to introduce a genre to first the west and then the entire world of fiction which Defoe himself was at lost to defend.
A very deftly handled discussion of the contextual forces that fostered the novel in England, with likewise controlled, deliberate readings of Defoe, Richardson, and Fielding.
This book was a job well done: Watt clearly did his reading and argued his points clearly.
It’s a little dated, by the look of its critical apparatus and the breeziness of some of its generalizations, and one might venture, outdated - but what would that mean?
Nowadays, either that it fails to represent X identification or it fails to take account of Y aspect of specialized study.
Whereas it reads like a fine piece of scholarship in its own right.
Anche se pubblicato nel 1957, la nascita del romanzo è ancora considerato da molti studiosi letterari come uno dei lavori più importanti sulle origini del romanzo.
Il libro ripercorre la nascita del romanzo moderno filosofico, sottolineando le tendenze economiche e sociali, e le condizioni che diventarono di primo piano nel 18 ° secolo.
E' utile anche oggi, come nel XXI secolo, ribadire l'importanza di questo saggio per la storia e l'analisi del romanzo e riproporne la lettura, non solo per gli esperti, ma per chiunque sia interessato al romanzo e alla storia europea.
A foundational study in the history of the novel but not without a wide variety of flaws that subsequent scholarship has had to atone for.
As the cliche goes: the first chapter is worth the price of the book (though I bought it second hand for probably .50!). Excellent philosophical discussion on the foundation/origin of formal realism.
Read this for my prelims. No comment other than this is a seminal work on the 18C novel, and so if you're interested in that topic, it'd probably interest you, and is very readable.
it's good
At the time he was writing, the critical currents were all running Fielding's way against Richardson, so perhaps Watt in part is compensating for that trend.
Formal realism in Richardson's hands, especially in Clarissa, becomes an impossibly refined tool for investigating human personality and consciousness.
For if there is one thing Fielding does not do, it is investigate human personality and consciousness through formal realism in any sustained way.
Nevertheless this is an important work that retains its position as a place to begin studies on the novel in the eighteenth century.
Watt's thinking about the importance of formal realism remains powerful and influential today; the merits far outweigh the defects.
Undoubtedly an important text in the discussion of the role of the novel in modern literature.
However, there are several glaring problems with it, some of them owed to the age of the text and the changes the past six decades brought with them.Watt attempts to objectively analyse the differences between earlier literature and the more modern novel and calls attention to distinctions in language, topics, characters and narrative principles.
Unfortunately, he links them so tightly to contemporaneous intellectual and social developments, that he in some cases fails to distinguish between fiction and historical context and in turn makes his novel dependent on a specific set of conditions which are found in early eighteenth century England, excluding all other texts from consideration.
It's not just for scholars, which is probably why its lost some of its once daring critical lustre.Watt sees the prime feature of the early novel (he begins it in the 18th Century, as opposed to those who date it back to DON QUIXOTE) as formal realism, and that this is an epistemological shift from the earlier allegories and romances.
I prefer Fielding, but that's a matter of personal preference: his reading is nonetheless persuasive.Watt's other main contribution, which others would revise, is delineating the middle class audience who were both subject and object of the early novels.Worth reading for anyone who appreciates the 18th Century.
defoe, richardson, and fielding, as early progenitors of the novel, all have very different methods of reflecting the world, but they are not necessarily opposing methods, as all are realist approaches.
as such, they can be seen as early exemplars/models of the variants of realism that have since appeared throughout the history of the novel (despite the word "realism" being so loose, multivalent and even in some ways controversial).
in this way "experimentalism" and "realism" in the novel are not necessarily opposed, as the history of the novel is essentially a history of experiments in realism.
I think Watt is unfairly maligned.
Sure, he didn't pay enough attention to women novelists.
Sure, some of his theses are overstated.
Watt is a towering grandfather of the field on novel studies, and the fact that we're still chasing down his hypotheses speaks to the power of this book.
It is damn thought provoking, and I find myself wondering and thinking about the ways that he has constructed the rise of the novel, its reliance on individualism, and the construction of character vs.
AND, he does give credit to women--just not enough.
I think we're used to sparring with cartoon-Watt too much.
Ian Watt brought some interested points to the table, but failed to satisfy all the possibilities of novel's emergence and impact.The language is generally clear, but instead of making his points clear-cut he alludes to further expansions developed later in the text that end up leaving the reader slightly dismayed at a lack of coherency.
By spreading out his arguments, Watt fails to strongly present his case.Nevertheless, the topics discussed are thought-provoking, and the commentary on Daniel Defoe's Robinson Crusoe are particularly stimulating.This is a good read if you have read the authors Watt discusses.
This is an engaging book about three of the very first novelists: Defoe, Richardson, and Fielding.
It's systematic and easy to follow, but with a lot of content.It is somewhat out of date, and cluelessly blinkered as far as material outside the white male canon, but it's still a foundational work in the field.
It's worth expanding and modifying by those who've come afterward, not throwing out altogether.
Much of the following research has done just that - expanded and modified.I just skimmed the chapters about Defoe and skipped the ones about Fielding, but they'd be worth returning to in studies of those authors.
First of all, this book is definitely out-dated; it's a little sexist and Robinson Crusoe's desire for only a male slave as company just demands a queer reading, I think.
That said, I thought the analysis of the circumstances leading to the rise of the novel was interesting, and the historical perspective is still relevant (though actual statistics not so much).
I was less convinced by Watt's readings of the novels of Defoe, Richardson, and Fielding, buuuuuut I haven't read a single novel by any of them, so I should withhold judgment on that until I do (which I might not).
This book is surprisingly readable. I was a bit frustrated that he set out to argue why Richardson is a more influential writer than Fielding, but he's made me a convert. I still prefer Fielding, but his points are well-argued with clear examples. I wish he'd chosen to write more on Sterne as his thoughts there were fascinating and, as a big Austen fan, I of course loved his assertion that she was the first author to bring the different types of realism of Fielding and Richardson together into a coherent structure, achieving her awesome reputation as a result.
specifically focused on the section re: marriage and the novel/marriage as a literary theme.subnote: I might begin employing brief reviews like this for my own bookkeeping of assigned/research materials. Sorry if this becomes bothersome to any of my GR friends!
For a class on The English Novel. I don't know that I'll be reading this all the way through. Only a short part of it is assigned for the class, and I may dip through the rest of it now and again. These lit crit/theory/history books are interesting to me, but they're also very slow going.
A really brilliantly insightful and balanced analysis of the modern novel and its connection to modern individualism--both economic/social and philosophical. Watts is obviously highly influenced by Max Weber; he is I suppose a materialist of sorts, but not aggressively reductionist.
Very interesting stuff. Even if one disagrees with some of Watt's conclusions, the text is still quite valuable for its readable and brisk delivery of historical information and neat readings of three authors who, for all their importance, probably aren't on the top of anyone's 'to-read' list.
The Rise of the Novel: Studies in Defoe, Richardson and Fielding
How the novel as genre came into being in western literature.
