https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/371397.A_Question_of_Power
They had to lock her up, as she was having a child by the stable boy, who was a native."  We are situated in the realm of the explicitly autobiographical (as the above is true for both Bessie and Elizabeth, as is much else in this novel) but the text also speaks from the perspective of madness, of a consciousness unable to discriminate between illusion and reality, between nightmare and daydream.
A woman of colour, existing at an epicenter of power - patriarchy, racism, colonialism...Under such pressures madness is inevitable.
"What is interesting is that for Head, madness is not weakness, it is resistance.
It was a life…with its own slow, weaving, gentle pattern. Think you know her? She is a mother who fears motherhood, or what she could do to her child, so she refers to her son as "the small boy." Still, her fear is not unfounded, so you think you know her, this school worker and all.  We are doubtful of your sanity, and request that you submit to us a certificate of sanity from the medical officer within fourteen days of receipt of this notice.  She's an enigma, this woman who lives in death, w
Think you know her story because she is a single mother leaving a husband who sleeps with anyone who crosses his path (literally)?
Her mother was an insane, white, English-woman living in South Africa, who slept with the black "stable boy" and was locked up in an asylum, so you know her story of biracial strife and abandonment?
Interwoven throughout the narrative are educational tidbits about Botswana, South Africa, post-colonialism, and all of the physical and psychological madness that comes with socio-economic change.
This book is about Elizabeth, a South African mother who has migrated to small town of Motabeng in Botswana.
She loses the love of her domineering husband, gets entangled with a handsome lover and makes her view the world like everything is falling into pieces until the rescue comes in the end.What makes this book worth reading is the scary way Head captures the mind of a woman who, in her isolation, plays the claustrophobic world in her mind.
But she is also, like her protagonist Elizabeth, born in South Africa and had a teaching post in Botswana.
Stunning and hypnotic. You really feel like you are riding on the crazy train with her.
The language used to describe the protagonist's bouts of insanity blows the mind. I re-read passages every now and then just to get a fix.
This book is difficult to follow but I liked it much. it disorients you with its narrative style and then fills you with images and emotions that linger and drift away like a dream you can't let go.
Bessie Head as usual did not disappoint.
I like how Bessie tackles heavy topics such as racism, poverty, inequality, religion and sex.
Through her characters she is able to explore the relationship of men with God, the function of the soul in a human's life, the existence of another world parallel to the one we live in, the wealth of the earth, economic development,tribalism, xenophobia, etc etc...This book is rich, I recommend it not just to a lover of books but to thinkers and to all those that like challenging the status quo
This is a very disturbing book.
The narrator is suffering from mental illness, and her narration, obviously, conflates "reality" with her hallucinations (not sure that is the proper medical term).
I found quite a bit of the symbolism of her dreams/delusions hard to sort out.
She feels alienated and alone due to her racial and ethnic differences from the local people, many of whom ignore her.
In addition, she feels gender oppression as well.
It is a difficult book, but certain passages clearly express the frustration of a person without a means of communicating with people around her.
One clearly feels her fear and sense of disorientation.
This book was like falling face first into insanity, and by the time I stood up, there was international aid workers and vegetable gardening. So for me, really the ideal book. A Question of Power looks at race and the difference between good and evil from the point of view of a refugee from apartheid South Africa to Botswana as she loses her grip on reality. Thoroughly enjoyed this book!Reading the World - Botswana 🇧🇼
Though Head wrote more or less a straight narrative, she weaved from the every "normal" existence of the main character to her bouts of intense nightmares that lasted for about one and half years including a whole year of sleeplessness and trips to the mental hospital.
While Head walked us through the main character's ordeal, it was difficult to grasp the greater and larger meaning of those nightmares.
One thing, though: Head succeeded in creating a main character, a bi-racial woman, that causes the reader to empathize with her struggles inwardly and outwardly.
Without reservation, though, I will say it is a book worth reading.
At the same time, she lives with psychological strain caused by external forces: isolation from her home country (she lives in permanent exile from South Africa), from her family, from the local power sources in her village and from the country under colonial rule.
Head has thoroughly explored the descent and reemergence of a woman from a complete psychological breakdown caused by these internal and external forces that alienate and isolate her.
It is an incredibly ambitious and brave book, all the more so for realizing that it is semi-autobiographical in nature; in writing this, Head must have had to relive her own breakdown.
A decent analysis will unearth a lot of interesting narrative strands, and will further explain why Dan seems to have an ever-gyrating penis and Sello is linked to Buddha, becomes an owl and dies several times over throughout the book.
I don't wish to imply that Head has written an incoherent book, or that there is no meaning to the chaos.
All I'm saying is that the chaos within this book makes it virtually impermeable as an actual novel.
I, for one, never really do like dream sequences and 'insanity narratives' in novels all that much.
A Question of Power: http://readwithstyle.wordpress.com/20...In this semi-biographical novel Bessie Head follows the gradual breakdown of Elizabeth – the child of a white woman of a position and a black servant in South Africa.
Together with her son, she takes refugee in the small village of Motabeng in Botswana, hoping to build a different life for herself.However, Elizabeth’s mixed race doesn’t get accepted neither in South Africa nor in her newly adopted country.
Structured in two parts, A Question of Power follows the torture two illusionary men impose on Elizabeth.
As Elizabeth is attempting to distinguish between reality and imagination, so was I.Read more: http://readwithstyle.wordpress.com/20...
A complex book describing the madness of Elizabeth, a half caste who has moved from South Africa to a village. She experiences various characters - part God/part human as she internalizes her sense of not belonging to either the white or black world, South African or Botswanian world, her sexuality and the evil of mankind. It is quite a difficult read where the genius of the writer shines through.
From my own experience in Costa Rica, I know that extreme isolation can lead to madness. This book accurately describes one such descent and the simple, gentle human gestures that can lend a person in pain a hand out of the abyss.2015/6/20 I just reread this amazing book. The narrator, an insane South African living in a village in Botswana, interacts with various characters, both real and otherwise.
bessie head has a mind bending/blowing way of showing how the insanity of the out there evilblendedgood world is only ourselves and ourselves all else. connections with each other, in this novel, come by way of pain and poetry. come by way of struggle.
An amazing, beautiful, difficult book about race, gender, sanity and self. Everyone should read it.
http://www.maryokekereviews.blogspot....
A startling piece of writing...as much about style as it is content. Bessie Head gets it all in here.
The protagonist narrator was insane and the story thus matched her mind on the blurred boundary between dreams and reality. Interesting and confusing.
Extremely powerful depiction of mental illness as an effect of/metaphor for the social violence of apartheid. I was really bowled over by the emotional power of this book.
The passages detailing Elizabeth's breaks with reality are vivid in their descriptions and come with no announcement; they snuck up on me and I had to grit my teeth and try to get through it.
I said Elizabeth is torn between two men.
Elizabeth finds meaning in her life and her place as an outsider through her struggles with these men and the ideals they present.Worth it for the language alone, which uses relatively plain language to create extremely evocative imagery, but the themes of isolation, belonging, love, death, are explored so fantastically to really lift this book up.

If ever I should muster the ability to relate to this madness - please put me out of my misery.
It seems to me that Goodreads reviews are often like RottenTomato reviews - the more terrible the movie, the more stars it is given by "great minds." It's almost as if the great minds can't stand the thought of something being beyond them.
No great mind here- and no danger in admitting that you couldn't PAY me to read this again.
While there are moments of brilliance - it's not worth navigating the riptide of chaos that is the rest of the novel.
This book portrays how hard it is to live with a mental illness so well. The main character, Elizabeth, is a mixed race woman who has recently moved to Botswana with her son. She hallucinates, and talks to people who don't really exist, but they become a very important part of her life. I felt confused when Elizabeth did, and clear in what was going on when she did, and that made this such a powerful book.
Bessie Head is someone who learned the painful way how to navigate the dread, horror, and despair of the self by facing it head on and conversing with it. It's a document of her survival. This is a book of conversations with the dead, with the hated and marginalized, and with gods. This is an Orpheus story of a woman's descent into hell and her slow and painful return, told through the unique (and precarious) position of a stateless African woman.
Very interesting story...thought it was a great, confusing story about a woman battling mental health in the middle of apartheid in South Africa. Difficult to read but quite a few enlightening ideas if you can't find them
Wow! It will take me a couple of years to think about this. Also to search out the symbolism and meanings. I highlighted many profound statements to reflect on. Maybe I should give it five stars but I gave it four because of my inability not to be confused.
Initially very disturbing. Concludes well.
Challenging and rewarding
