https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84119.The_Horse_and_His_Boy
This is probably my favorite of the Chronicles. It takes place during the Golden Age of Narnia, with the Pevensies reigning in their prime, although the story is actually set in the countries to the south of Narnia, which provides for a rather different feel to much of this novel. I always find the visual imagery captivating: riding across the moors at night, entering the towering city of Tashban, spending a night among the tombs of the ancient kings.
“Do not by any means destroy yourself, for if you live you may yet have good fortune, but all the dead are dead like.”  This felt as if I was reading a folktale about a horse and a boy who wander around and seek their new adventure. Yet the humor in this book is abundant, even though the narration is not as intriguing as the other books. And the storyline is quite straight and lacks of twists or epicness, too. I yawned so many times while I was getting past the first half of the book. I'd used
“Do not by any means destroy yourself, for if you live you may yet have good fortune, but all the dead are dead like.” 
This felt as if I was reading a folktale about a horse and a boy who wander around and seek their new adventure.
I'd used my whole day to finish this book despite how short it is, the story runs on until I felt so tired and wished it should have ended sooner than later.
I didn't use to something like this in literatures.But I kind of enjoyed this book, and this is the story that doesn't includes the old characters in it.
A lost white boy is raised among them and he is sad until he is finally reunited with the beautiful white people of Narnia.I've read an argument that Lewis isn't *really* racist because he portrays one Calormene character in a positive light.
But that's like Sarah Palin gushing about her gay friends to prove she's not homophobic.
Inviting a lesbian coworker to your annual moose BBQ is not enough to overcome an active campaign against gay rights.
For Lewis, commenting that one Calormene lady is a good storyteller is not enough to over come the contempt he feels towards his own Arab stand-ins.
As I've mentioned in reviews of other Narnia books, Lewis seems to take great pride in backing the wrong horse at every possible social and/or historical point, and boy howdy, does he blow it here.
It's me thinking that those weren't exactly the things that bothered Lewis about that region.)So: knowing all that, how can I possibly enjoy this book?I cringe at times, but I do.
For instance, I once wrote an article and later created an e-card featuring this terrific line:"If you do one good deed, your reward usually is to be set to do another and harder and better one."It's true.
"'P-please,' said Hwin, very shyly, 'I feel just like Bree that I can't go on.
With probably the most intriguing title of the series, this was the tale I was most excited for, but it ultimately didn't live up the magic of the previous two books, for me.
Along their journey they meet a similar pair of escapees, Avaris and talking horse Hwin, who join them on their adventures.Characters from the previous tale made a reappearance in their new roles as Kings and Queens of Narnia and it was exciting to see how the characters had progressed.The adventurous elements of the story were high and seeing more of this magical realm was a real joy, but I lost some of my suspended belief in reading this.
Ugh, this is the worst episode of Mister Ed ever.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestTo cure a book slump, I decided to revisit the Chronicles of Narnia series. I grew up with the books as a kid, but I'd never actually finished the series to completion. Conveniently, I happen to own a stack of them that I purchased from a thrift shop a few years ago on a whim. To make things extra interesting, I'm reading the books in chronological order instead of publication order, which means that some of the lesser-known books like THE
When he learns that his "father" plans to sell him off to a racial stereotype of an evil Middle Eastern man, called a Tarkaan (which seems to be fantasy-speak for "Turk"), he decides to run off with the man's horse.Shasta finds out that the horse, whose name is Bree, was born in Narnia and can talk.
The prince agrees, because he's so certain his evil plan will work.Spoiler: his evil plan does not work.Aslan also makes an appearance and if you thought he was a judgy sh*t in THE LION, THE WITCH AND THE WARDROBE, just wait until you see him bring the punishment in THE HORSE AND HIS BOY.
You know you're bored when it nearly takes you a month to read something of this length.
The Horse and his Boy (Chronicles of Narnia, #5), C.S. Lewis تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ژانویه سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: ماجراهای نارنیا - کتاب 5: پسر و اسبش؛ اثر: کلاویو استیپلز لوئیس؛ مترجم: بهروز وحدت؛ نوشه، 1378؛ در 202 ص؛ شابک: 9649033815؛ عنوان: ماجراهای نارنیا - کتاب 5: اسب و آدمش؛ اثر: کلاویو استیپلز لوئیس؛ مترجم: منوچهر کریم زاده؛ منوچهر کریم زاده؛ کتابهای کیمیا، 1379؛ در 205 ص؛ شابک: 9647100116؛ چاپ سوم 1386؛ عنوان: اسب و پسرک او؛ نویسنده: سی.اس.
ص 1 کتاب.
The boxed set of Narnia that I have and am now reading, was published in 2002 I have noticed, so despite having 1950/60s covers, these were NOT my original Narnia books from the early 70s.
I wonder where my originals went and when I bought these ??Who knows, what I do know is that it’s strange, I could not remember a single thing about this book, I don’t think I have ever read it.
That said it was very enjoyable, a fun romp through the countries bordering Narnia with an interesting mix of people and animals.
As well written as ever and a delight to read, a solid 4 ⭐️novel.
They escape together and meet other escapees, a girl named Aravis and her another talking Narnian horse called Hwin.
Aslan, my favorite so far character in the series, makes just a brief appearance here.The battle between Archenlands and Narnians versus Calormen seemed to be lopsided and it was told only through the apparitions on the hermit's lake so it failed to make the match interesting to read in my opinion.
Also, the battle could have been more exciting if the point of view was Sashta's and Aravis was there fighting together against the Calormen.I have started reading Book #1 and will read the sequence in chronological order until Book #7.
The basic story is a good and entertaining one, but I could not get beyond the overt prejudices of C.S. Lewis on display throughout this book.I'm incredibly disappointed.
I admit, by calor I don't known if he is implying people of the hot lands (as calor indicates heat) or if it is a not-so-subtle way of suggesting colored people, but the descriptions speak for themselves.
These people are described as dark-skinned, turban-wearing, cruel slave-owners.
This land and its people are consistently contrasted against the fair-skinned, judicious and free-thinking people of Narnia and Archenland.
It's not a book I would recommend.
Faerie, and the journey to it, however, is perilous and fraught with dangers.
Once in it, or on its borders (i.e. Archenland) it becomes even more dangerous.
A battle ensues and both children as well as the faeries who grew up outside of faerie meet the Faerie King himself (Aslan).
Their introduction into faerie is permitted by the King and they get to live on its borders for the rest of their lives.
We too can find out we are the sons and daughters of kings, not just kings on the border of Faerie, but the Faerie King himself.
Quite frankly I couldn't believe that I was reading this garbage.
Thank you C.S.Lewis for combining the images of both Arabs & Indians into this book and demonizing them, creating yet ANOTHER conflicted representation of two completely different types of people.
They set up Calormen (questionable meaning) completely opposite to Narnia, again pretty much drawing this nice and clean line between these coloured barbarians from the south and civilized free white folk.The sentiment is present in all the novels I've read so far but nothing as strong and overt as this.
The Horse and His Boy is a good adventure story in the Chronicles.
Here the adventure begins in Calormen, a coastal country south to Narnia.
The story is mostly about their adventures as they make their escape and safe passage to Narnian territory.
The story also dwells on both Middle Eastern and Western cultures through Calormen and Narnia respectively.
The book has been criticized as being racist, but I think Lewis was trying to be true to the life as it was centuries ago in those countries.
There were slavery in those countries too as it was in the western world, and there were child marriages in their cultures.
At least twice in this book, he says something like "Shasta had never seen so many trees before.
. ." or "Shasta smelled a delicious smell he had never smelled before, but I hope that you have." At one point, he says that Shasta would not have planned to cross the desert "if he had read as many books about deserts as you have." That kind of cracked me up.
Have I mentioned how much I love these books recently? And Aravis is just like me. In all the wrong ways.
Este libro esta basado cuando los niños de Pevensie todavía están en Narnia, pero el foco está en dos niños jóvenes de Calormene, Shasta y Aravis.
Ambos huyen: buscan una vida mejor en Narnia, involucrándose en una batalla entre los Narnianos y los Calormenes.
Me quedé encantada con el entorno, el ambiente y el maravilloso complejo y encantadores personajes que conocí a lo largo del camino.
Me ha gustado mucho la aventura de este libro.
El final es lo único negativo ya que para mi estuvo demasiado precipitado y rápido.
I enjoyed this one so much!
I loved Shasta, Bree, Aravis....everyone!!
I have no idea which is my favorite Chronicles of Narnia book now haha I just started reading the Magician's Nephew a couple days ago and I'm loving it so far!
I've been reading so many books lately and it's hard to keep track of all of them...I should have written a review sooner, but I've been a little busy with school when I haven't been reading ;) lol So sorry this isn't a proper review, but it's safe to say I love every book in this series so far!
The Horse and His Boy is the only book of the Narnia series that features native rather than English children as the main characters, and the only one set entirely in the Narnian world.
It is set in the period covered by the last chapter of the inaugural book, The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, during the reign of the four Pevensie children as Kings and Queens of Narnia.
Though the Pevensies appear as minor characters, the main characters are two children and two talking horses who escape from Calormen north into Narnia.
Loved it, very different from the other books in the series.
Not my favorite in the series, but it was still really fun read.
Coming Home26 October 2017 So, it looks like it has come down to me writing a book review during my lunch break. Well, it wouldn't be the first time, and certainly won't be the last (even though I really only have 20 minutes in which to do it). So, as I usually do, I've popped over the road to the State Library of Victoria so that I can plug in my laptop and borrow their electricity (well, they do let us use it). Ironically, the table that I have sat down at happens to have another lad writing a
Well, once again, it turned out that my memories from my childhood were somewhat corrupted from the fact that, well, I happened to be a child at the time, and upon reading the first couple of pages I was immediately drawn in.
It does raise the question whether this interpretation can actually be legitimate, and whether we always have to read the story in the context of the author.
I probably could have said an awful lot more on this book, but I'll probably return again in the future since there are a few more of Lewis' works that I still need to read (or more appropriately reread).
Τρίτο μέρος της επταλογίας (αν το πάρουμε με χρονολογική σειρά - πέμπτο με σειρά ημερομηνίας έκδοσης) κι αυτή τη φορά η ιστορία διαδραματίζεται εξολοκλήρου στο φανταστικό σύμπαν της Νάρνια.Τα χαρακτηριστικά που μας έκαναν να αγαπήσουν το C.S. Lewis είναι παρόντα, βρήκα όμως το αποτέλεσμα λίγο πιο αδύναμο αν όχι αδιάφορο, σα να γράφτηκε λίγο στα πρόχειρα και όχι γιατί η ιστορία ήταν απαραίτητη στο Χρονικό.
The Horse and His Boy was one of my favorite chronicles of Narnia when I was younger — partly because I love all things oriental, and the setting of Calormen is Lewis’s quasi-Arabian society — but more importantly, because of the heroine Aravis.
And the penalty, of course, for not being born into the group of privileged white people known as the “Sons of Adam” and “Daughters of Eve” is that somehow, for some reason, you aren’t as inherently good.Aravis is accused by both Shasta (who is, for all intents and purposes, a Narnian boy) and Aslan of being unempathetic.
The third book in the Chronicles of Narnia, " The Horse and his Boy is the somewhat familiar storyline of an orphan who sets out on an adventure with the help of a few friends and discovers "who they really are." Susan, Peter, Edmund, Lucy and Aslan all make an appearance, but this is ultimately the story of Shasta, his talking horse, Bree, and the folks they meet along the way. I never felt completely immersed in the tale and that probably stems from the predictable nature of the story.
I got to read this out loud one more time!! Such fun.
I wonder why did I skip this one the first time I read this series?
It’s not actually the third in the series chronologically since it sets during The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe.
As the four of them got to Tashbaan, the capital of Calormen, Shasta was mistaken for Corin, the prince of Archenland and taken in by king Edmund and Narnian party who were visiting Tashbaan.
Well over all this book is a fun read.
This might be my favorite book in the CoN. I love it so very, very much. It's just dang good storytelling.
4.5 Stars Book Three in my Box Set
This is definitely one of my least favourite books in this series. I did still enjoy it because it was a big part of my childhood but something about this book lacks the magic and spark that the other books have. It’s still good but it just doesn’t reach the level of the others and doesn’t capture my attention and my heart in quite the same way.
