https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25190.Beauty_s_Release
Considering that my poor brain cells are still pretty damaged, I'm taking the easy path (again) and copying/pasting/editing the plot summary I found on Wikipedia:Beauty's Release begins with the captured royal slaves' journey on the ship to the Sultan's realm, where they are to become mute sex toys or living sculptures to decorate the Sultan's gardens, bedrooms, bathrooms, hallways, doors, etc.
However, in private, Laurent and Tristan begin to train Lexius as their secret slave.When Beauty, Tristan and Laurent start to feel comfortable and happy with their new lives, a rescue team led by the Captain of the Guard and Nicolas, Tristan's former Master and lover, arrives to take them back to the Queen's Court.
I guess, in their own way, these three books really are like a fairy tale.
Amidst all the every day fetishistic debauchery, torture, gang rape, buggerization and constant whippings - it's the lifestyle - there is something missing.
I mean, even going back to the very first book, where Beauty is rudely awakened by the priapic Prince - lets face it, she's been asleep for 100 years, surely she should be lying in a pool of dried and drying menstrual blood, amongst other bodily waste matter!?
It's obviously a constant balmy temperature with no precipitation of any kind, which is lucky for the slaves who are naked.
A fitting end to this High-Fantasy erotic series complete with HEA for all the characters we’ve come to love.  "Yes," I thought, “Do it harder. Whip me soundly for what I have done. Let the blaze of pain grow brighter, hotter.” But it was not coherent, what I thought. It was like a song in my head, made up of rhythms – The strap, my cries, the creak of the wood…  I actually enjoyed this much more than the other two books which preceded it. I was particularly pleased with the way that the Sultan’
I’m not even going to try and pretend that I don’t wield these books as a weapon against those who are ignorant enough about the D/s Lifestyle to call Fifty Shades of Grey and its fuzzy handcuff contemporaries BDSM… Not that those books aren’t entertaining for what they are (Modern Romance with a slightly erotic, slightly kinky kick)… But let’s endeavor to call a spade a spade, people… Before someone gets their feelings hurt…These books are completely over-the-top graphically sexual & and descriptive to the point of making the reader squirm… However, I find the psychology of the submissive much more accurate in Anne Rice’s fantasy land than it is often portrayed in the soft-core BDSM-light Erotic Romances which come across my path more frequently.
I am finally done with this series!!This was by far one of the most painful reading experiences I've ever had.
As if getting taking from the castle and sold at a slave auction in the "village" wasn't enough, why not add kidnapping by a Sultan?
Not to mention taking what was one person's journey and turning into a multiple character story.
It's unnecessary and takes the reader out of the story (not that there was much of one here).I get that a lot of people like this series, and more power to them.
This just wasn't for me.
Review of the first book.Review of the second book.WARNING: Disturbing stuff ahead.And here is where we hit the rock bottom.As in, mass nonconsensual permanent genital mutilation.I know there are some people out there that like it, but I daresay it's one kink that doesn't need pandering to.
I daresay that when put like that, it seems like horrors of book second might have been staged to show princes and princesses were better off as slaves to the nobility than roaming around.
I read the first book in this trilogy about four years ago, which appropriately demonstrates how well the triptych held my interest.
I assumed "like that" meant "erotica in three parts" rather than "steaming pile of badly written horse apples," so I figured I ought to see how this series ends because Lord knows the woman will want to talk about nipple clamps and tidal waves of man juices and human ponies with dildo tails and fully exposed pleasure-statue-people.
This sleeping beauty trilogy is the porniest book I have ever read, it is so porny it transcends its form as a book and breaks through into being a porn movie. All your categories of porn are here: straight, bi, lez, gay, threesome, foursome, orgy, s and m. This book involves so much leather and phallic shaped fruits its funny, accounting for the two stars. And don't anyone tell me I just didn't get it--this book has no literary merit no matter what anyone says.
Since erotica is much more important than the plot in this trilogy, I'll divulge a little on this final book.The Queen sends a rescue squad to recapture Beauty and her fellow slaves Tristan and Laurent, but not before Laurent secretly teaches the Sultan's steward Lexius what it feels like to be a slave...
Tristan and Laurent are punished for a year as ponies in the stable while Beauty is sent back to her land, being reluctantly relieved of her enslavement.I won't go into how the story ends, but it does end rather perfectly for such a twisted little series of books.
However, if you're a "completionist" like me and are looking to read each and every book Anne Rice has written...
I am not writing a review for all three books..or maybe I will just copy and paste this post to all three.
These are Adult FairyTale FANTASY books.
Please do not read these books and base them on real life.
I LOVE these books and think about them often.
They are mind blowingly wonderful but fully fantasy.
not real life.
This is out and out a full on fantasy world and it is wonderfully erotic.
I am sure that these books are not everyone's cup of tea but I was very much taken in with this fantasy world.
The first book was shocking. The second installment was more than shocking. Then the final book… I think I got used to these naked people walking around and having sex ALL THE TIME (they need to find a new hobby… like paint) that it got pretty boring. I had to skip pages and pages of BDSM just to find the direction of this story. It was twisted, weird and gay. I just don’t understand why Ann Rice had to shift point of views. And for my first erotic trilogy, I think I handled it well. LOL!
The problem, however, is that while there is this interesting setting, the author does not explore it sufficiently and quickly return to the same things that she has presented to us in the first two books, repeating the same thoughts, especially in the part of male homosexuality.
Το πρόβλημα, όμως, είναι ότι ενώ υπάρχει αυτό το ενδιαφέρον σκηνικό η συγγραφέας δεν το εξερευνεί επαρκώς και γρήγορα επιστρέφει στα ίδια πράγματα που μας παρουσίασε στα πρώτα δύο βιβλία, επαναλαμβάνοντας ίδιες σκέψεις καταστάσεις, ειδικά στα σημεία που αφορούν την ανδρική ομοφυλοφιλία.
Σίγουρα και αυτό είναι ένα ενδιαφέρον βιβλίο αλλά δεν μου άρεσε τόσο όσο τα δύο προηγούμενα, για αυτό πρέπει να βάλω χαμηλότερη βαθμολογία.
After Beauty is awakened by the Prince, she is taken to his kingdom for an education of sorts in BDSM.
In this final book, Beauty is actually taken prisoner by a Sultan and confined to his Harem.These books are a version of the BDSM world.
The ending is sweet while still remaining true to the kink factor.Leave your inhibitions at the door and these books might just surprise you.If you like the world of the Sultan, there is another book I would recommend - "The Seraglio." It is a look at life in the harems of Turkey(?) It is not sexually explicit, but it is an interesting read.
Każda kolejna część serii jest lepsza od poprzedniej :) choć wszystkie trzy są bardzo dobre (no może po przeczytaniu całości poprzednie nie wydają się aż tak, ale w miarę czytania jak najbardziej się podobają).Takie śliczne zdanie: "Obrócił moją twarz ku sobie i pocałował mnie mocno w usta.
Czyżby stało się regułą, że w chwilach, gdy ulegam duszą, staję się panem"ciekawe...Dodane po przeczytaniu kilku komentarzy: to fakt, że książka to takie tekstowe porno, w którym jest wszystko: hetero, bi, gay, les, trójkąty, czworokąty, orgie i sado-maso i tylko nie ma za dużo treści poza tym :D ...ale co z tego, to właśnie o to chodzi :D
I didn't feel liked I gained anything new here, but still enjoyed this final book.
The slaves go on a whole new adventure here, and discover many interesting aspects of their characters they never knew before.At first I was frustrated with the indecision, the seemingly strong affection for one person that is immediately replaced by another.
But emotions here are not quite as clear to define in a slave/Master relationship.
It isn't until the end that Beauty finds the loving Master she so longs for.Again there is a mixture of fascination and sadness when I think of submission.
This is a fairy-tale yet we’ll have to wait until the very last lines on the very last page before we come to the familiar and expected ending:“And we shall live happily every after,” I said through my kisses, “as the fairy-tales say.”“Yes, happily every after”, she answered, “and a good deal happier, I think, than everyone else could ever guess.”In many ways this third book in the Sleeping Beauty series is more of the same; more captivity, more punishment, more sex and more unexpected and surprising revelations for Beauty, Laurant and other characters.
Es por eso, y teniendo en cuenta las opuestas reviews que encontré sobre ella, que decidí esperar a leer sus tres partes para analizarla con un poco más de "completitud".
Anne Rice toma el mito de La bella Durmiente como punto de partida para tejer un relato que es mucho más que una obra de erotismo con temática BDSM.
Pero este es sólo el puntapié inicial para construir un universo de seducción, batallas con uno mismo, y riquísimos análisis sobre la naturaleza del ser humano que incluso echan por tierra las críticas feministas que se le ha hecho a la Bella Durmiente primigenia.
There was a part were female genital mutilation was mentioned and I almost threw the book out the window.And then is back to the village, just like that, and the story went on and on about ponies, which I hated since book two and didn't want to read about it.
And we keep having random chapters with Beauty now as proper Princess wanting to go back to it.
God...And then the "end" to the supposed "storyline" was just as absurd as the rest of the book.
Looooong ago.So I did not like the book.
The punishments seemed more of a personal level in this book and not to mention a bit more exotic just by the setting and how they are delivered.
I say they are more exotic much to the character placement and setting but I also say more personal for each master is suffering a punishment just as much as the slave themselves and it is most noted with the relationship between Beauty and Inanna as well as the relationship between Laurent and Lexius.Just like the other two books prior, I only would suggest this book underneath two conditions.
I saw the Beauty/Laurent connection a mile away, but I didn't care that it was predictable.
That's the great thing about fiction; the characters really are made for each other.I'll admit that I skipped several pages of Laurent's pony time.
Erotica aside, this series has been an interesting lens through which to view power structures in romantic relationships and larger social structures.
That may be a basic dynamic of BDSM, and no great revelation to other people, but I have enjoyed the reminder that not every relationship has to work the way I like mine to work.
This book wasn't as good as the second.
I truly enjoyed the singling out of Tristan in the second book and I admit I became attached to him and his gentle and frail personality.
Now in this third book, we are taken away from Tristans thoughts and brought into Laurent's thoughts.
I thought at the beginning he would be the love for beauty, but nothing ever came of it.
Beauty finds love in Inanna and that was fine, but it was so brief.
Beauty needed a master and Laurent simply needed a slave.
Sleeping Beauty ends with kiss, right?
Prince reached the tower and kissed the sleeping virgin to wake her up.
The prince found Beauty and kissed her little bit later and than he introduced her to the queen who ruled over his country.
All good things must end somehow and Beauty was again back at the queens country and she is finally free but her education pushed her to think over hersefl very hard until she found unexpected solution with certain prince and believe me or not that prince is better kisser then previous one, at least he knew how to spank propertly.
It was like a pull that called to me, you read the others now see how it ends....
Call it odd that I liked the books but I did over all if you can get past all the smut, and weird the WTF moments it's good.
And to this day my best friend and I who told me to read this set still have moments in conversations where I turn to her and say, "You told me to read it, and I should kick you for it!" Or other words not meant for others to hear.
This is the third book in the trilogy, and I suggest saving it for last so that you know the history.
If you've read the other two, then obviously you're not bothered by literature containing fantasy sexual violence, various BDSM and the like.
This book has yet another change in locale as Beauty and a few others are kidnapped from the village and taken to an Arabian kingdom.
By the end of the book, all of the primary characters have some sort of closure, and the loosest ends are nicely concluded.
The best in the series by far, simply because of the wonderful pov changes throughout. I started to lose interest in the first installment due to Beauty's insufferable tears that fell on every page. Thank you, Anne Rice, for letting the other characters narrate for awhile. In my opinion, this series turned out to be rather good for porn on paper. I hate to admit it, but oddly enough, my own tears hit the pages when Beauty was released. Predictable ending, but fairy tales are supposed to be predictable. I loved it, leather phalluses & all.
This book was better than the first two. The first one had an intriguing premise, the second one was hard for me to finish but this one went by fast. It is the first time you see a reversal in the characters. Some of them are no longer trying to find a way to rebel against being slaves or developping coping mechanisms and that's refreshing. It stops the monotony of the endless palace/village/palace punishments.
this book starts off all hot and interesting... taking the captives to another country to be sex slaves, and just when things are getting really good... everyone is rescued and she slaps a happy ending on to it. i think this is the worst thing about anne rice. she does this alot when she gets either bored or stuck... she'll just wrap it in a neat little package... brown paper of course, and then says "and they lived happily ever after". boo.
The female lead is a stupid twit, but the male characters are the ones that keep this book series going. I only wished that Laurent had been introduced sooner, for he truly is the most interesting out of this series that does lose steam quite quickly. Overall, I liked it for an easy read. I read it in about five hours while sick, methinks.
Foi uma trilogia diferente, que captou o interesse ao ponto de levar a ler os três livros. No entanto, a partir de meio do segundo começou a ser demasiado repetitivo... Enfim, é uma leitura erótica interessante!
So. Much. Kinky. Sex. I mean seriously, some parts were OK, but some were just not so good.Anyway...
In the final volume of Anne Rice's deliciously tantalizing erotic trilogy, Beauty's adventures on the dark side of sexuality make her the bound captive of an Eastern Sultan and a prisoner in the exotic confines of the harem.
In "Beauty's Release", Anne Rice makes the forbidden side of passion a doorway into the hidden regions of the psyche and the heart.Part of the allure of this version for me was a release from the utter crudity of the European castle and village.
Beyond the erotic speculation in the book, Anne Rice shows how degrading a human being leads to the discovery she says, the building of a new consciousness that will have a lasting existence.
