https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/171625.Bomber
A short list of (the hundreds of) characters would include: Lambert and the men of Creaking Door, obviously; the unscrupulous Flight Lieutenant Sweet, who keeps plucking Lambert’s crew to fly on his own plane; Lambert’s wife Ruth, who serves in the auxillary; a dozen other men and women – pilots, crew, ground crew, townspeople – of the airfield at Warley Fen and its nearby village; August Bach, who commands a Luftwaffe radar station; Bach’s mistress, who lives in the town of Altgarten; the mayor, fire chief, and residents (including Jews) of Altgarten; and Victor Lowenherz, a German night-fighter pilot (along with the many other men of the base).As Deighton makes clear at the outset, this is a novel about a fictional event.
(it was a recommendation) but I did become involved with the characters over the course of the novel.Initially there were a huge cast of characters on offer here both British and Australian and their German counterparts.
It did take a while to get into the stride of the novel and sort them all out.
The novel deals with a Bomber Squadron over a short period of time.Have to admit that a lot of the technical information sailed over my head although I did manage to get the gist of it and a lot of it became fascinating reading.
Deighton, known for his in-depth research, has given us a very realistic portrayal of both sides, the families of the bomber crews, the German citizens and defenders.
Deighton follows the crews of several bombers, sent on night-time raid against the Ruhr.
Lacking night-vision goggles the crews had to release their bombs guided by flares dropped by scout planes.
August Bach, a German pilot, is returning to his base with his friend, Max, when they are held up by a convoy directed by Vichy police.
A brutal read this.
Deep in detail, the plot follows the planning, execution and conclusion of a bombing raid during World War Two. Told from the viewpoint of both British and German sides, Deighton utilises a clinically detached vantage point.
This affords us a unique view, one in which terrible injuries and deaths are described in the same detail as the tactical approach of modern warfare.This is surprisingly effective, and as each successive event is dissected, the pointlessness and barbarity of war is laid bare.
There are no winners here, and I defy any reader to make their way through this and not feel absolutely gutted by the end.Not for the faint-hearted.
Description: It is 18 February 1943, and RAF Lancaster bomber FW 183 - call sign O-Orange - is about to set off on its final mission.
Flt Sgt Sam LambertEmma Chambers........
Corporal Ruth LambertJack Shepherd........
Oberleutnant August BachBrian Murphy.........
Flt Lt Terry SweetSiriol Jenkins.......
Corporal Madge ScottDominic Rickards.....
Oberleutnant Baron Victor von LowenherzJohn Woodvine........
Sgt ‘Batters’ BattersbyClive Hill...........
Sgt Huw ‘Binty’ JonesJonathan Keeble......
Sgt DigbyIan Peck.............
Sgt ‘Flash’ GordonJoshua Towb..........
Sgt Simon ‘Kosher’ CohenTerry John...........
Sgt Jimmy GrimmRussel Floyd.........
This is an incredibly detailed look at the bombing of Germany, from both sides. For me the most poignant moment came when the Germans learned which city was about to get bombed, and a crew of women set to work peeling potatoes - knowing that the soup kitchens would be filled that night with thousands of homeless civilians. It's a fair and sympathetic look at the terror that people experienced, both on the ground and in the air. A must-read for anyone with even a cursory interest in war.
Deighton employs fiction to bring home the reality of the British bomber offensive against Germany in WWII.
RAF bombers run the gauntlet of night-fighters and flak guns whilst civilians and firemen deal with the havoc they create on the ground.
Deighton remains agnostic about the rights and wrongs of this form of warfare, leaving the reader to ponder questions which remain contentious to this day.
Powerful and often harrowing, but definitely not one to miss for those interested in the stark realities of history.
(Some of the ancillary characters are a bit more stereotyped, like the German secret policeman who tries to prove that one of the fliers is sabotaging the war effort, but even he has a less formalised counterpart among the British officers.)Part of the reason for the ponderousness of Bomber is the literary weight of what Deighton is trying to do - conveying the brutality of war, the waste of a generation of young men, while making his portrayal evenhanded with the reader caring for people on both sides.
A terrific and meticulously researched piece of writing, showing a WW2 RAF bombing raid on a German town. The novel has characters on both sides, so not only do we get the bomber crews' perspective but also those of the German night fighter crews, radar operators, civil defence workers and civilians on the ground.Bomber is written in a matter-of-fact style that brings home the random nature of warfare - the lucky escapes, the pointless deaths. If you ever need convincing that in modern warfare there are no winners this is the book to read.
Bomber was my intro to Deighton, bought it off a discount rack fora $1. A good read and detailed tale of the various characters on both sides of a bomber raid. Some of the various stories followed: the Ju-88 night fighters with their experimental nitrous-oxide superchargers stalking the british pathfinders, the air raid warden & mayor copingwith a huge raid on his small town, the bomb expert, theoff shore AA gunner, all progress to the finale.
To be honest, I am glad it took me so long to finally read this book because I don't think the younger version of "me" was ready to fully comprehend the brutal honesty of war that is depicted by Deighton in 'Bomber'.
may contain spoilers.The more I read and thought about each chapter, the more I came to realize that Deighton is not glorifying war.
It has been several days since I finished reading and I am still thinking about the characters and the final moments painted so vividly by Deighton.
Hard to find a single flaw in this astounding, overwhelming, shattering work.
Do you have a morbid fascination with ways to die during wartime?
Keen on the way that munitions truly operate?
A tonne of factual details and all wrapped up in a moving narrative; perfectly balanced and adroit.A book that you develop an emotional chord for as you read it--perhaps this is why it is hard to let these works go into cardboard boxes and out on a curb.
You grip a book like this while you read it and afterwards..well; you just can't read something like this on an e-reader.
An exhaustive and, to some extent, exhausting fictional account of a British bombing raid on a German town in mid-1943.
His knowledge of British and German fighter planes gets a bit monographic at times, but I'm guessing it fascinates military history aficionados.
As for his writing, it's smooth as always, but the glibness he displays in his spy novels here becomes an unsettling detachment as he describes the dismemberment, disembowelment, and disintegration of characters with whom the reader has just spent the last several hundred pages.
This was a decent novel about a RAF bombing of Germany during WWII and how it affected everyone involved.
It was heartfelt with plenty of character development.
There were a whole lot of characters to keep track of though.
Deighton mentioned that in the forward (which I rarely read, but did this time).
In hindsight I probably should have kept a cheat sheet of who is who, but it was still very enjoyable despite me sometimes becoming befuddled about the characters.
The only other minor issue I had with it was the use of German terms that were often never explained what they are in English.
Without any doubt my favourite book of all time. I must have read Bomber at least ten times. It paints a vivid picture of a bombing raid over Germany during WWII. From the prejudices of RAF officers, the workings of a bomber station, to the German radar installations on the Dutch coast and the small market town of Altgarten to suffers a 750 heavy bomber raid.An exercise in futility but so well researched and put together. A fantastic book, very highly recommended.
A frighteningly accurate yarn of British bombers unloading their fury over WWII Germany as Luftwaffe night fighter pilots attempt shoot them out of the skies. Experience what is was like for civilians as the deadly cargo ripped apart towns, homes and lives. Deighton scores a bull's-eye with this amazingly researched tale that you can't put down. No one emerges the victor in this one.
Slow start but ended up being quite moved by it.
Riveting. Loved it. The detail is brilliant, the descriptions excruciatingly precise. I can see why Lemmy was so inspired!
Twenty-four hours in the air war. Amazingly detailed without boring; amazingly peopled without stock characters.
Written by Len Deighton in 1970, with World War II still fresh in his memory, bomber covers a single large bomber raid on a German city, from the point of view of the RAF Lancaster pilots, their nemeses in the German night-fighters and the radar crews on the Dutch coast, and the poor, unsuspecting townsfolk who are about to experience hell on earth dropped from 20,000 feet.
The quality of the author and his writing style is evident in that you feel for every single character, every single situation, you are encapsulated in every moment, you feel the exhilaration, the devastation, the joy, the pain, the relief and ultimately at the end you fully appreciate what everyone in wartime situations go through, and the real power of the book is that this was only one tiny clippet, one day, one bombing raid, one tiny little bit of what was a long, bloody, devastating war.Brilliant.
Unfortunately it is has so many characters and so much minutiae that I lost track and lost interest in the primary action of the book: the men and women who actually did the raid or fought against it.
There are so many subplots and extraneous details which showcase the author's knowledge of World War II that the power of the whole novel is lost.
In fact there is no primary story to the novel other than a large air raid with hundreds of planes eventually takes place late in the book and one is bored to tears with the rest of it.
Not only do we get a glimpse into the everyday lives of the crews of Bomber Command, but we are also introduced to the residents of the German town which becomes the accidental target of the raid and the Luftwaffe defending it.This is the first time I have read an account of these devastating raids from the German point of view and I found it captivating and, at times, very moving.The number of characters and the lack of any indication of transition makes the book difficult to follow at times, but it is, never the less, an engrossing read.I am not sure it will encourage me to read more Len Deighton as war time stories don't normally interest me, but I will certainly think about it.
Many readers and whoever wrote the description for this book call it a book of war.
It details the actions and results of the actions for both German and RAF bombers.
I did, too, until I read the author's explanation.
His intention is to demonstrate what happens when man and his machines meet with one or the other failing.
When I realized this I couldn't help but agree.
The author goes back and forth between the Germans and the RAF military most of whom are pilots.
A very different book, and one of most devastating books I've read.
I loved the juxtaposition of it all; the austere writing compared to the manic events, the cracking resolves of some characters compared to the whitewashed justifications of others; the war hero who actively tries to garner support for the truth of the country he loves; the bomber whose responsible, moral, character can't handle the stress; the simplicity of the story compared to the layers of characters.
I liked the subtle differences in the ways the Germans were written, compared to the British, too.
Still, for all this time, familiarity on the bookshelves has given me a favourable opinion of Deighton's work (The IPCRESS File was an exception, but that was his first novel, and in retrospect reading such a demanding work on the bus was probably a bad idea), and so I was greatly pleased to hear that his 1970 novel, Bomber, had been longlisted for the Lost Man Booker Prize.The book, or at least my dad's copy thereof, begins with a foreword by Deighton discussing the sheer volume of research that went into this book.
Very thorough and un-jingoistic retelling of a WW2 bombing raid on Germany. Gives a real sense of the brutality and nightmarishness of this air bombing war for both sides. Deighton spends a long time introducing a huge array of characters and it can be a challenge remembering who is who as the book progresses. The matter-of-fact style suits this material well. Paraphrasing Checkov: if you want to move the reader, write coldly.
This novel is an absolute masterpiece. The author gradually draws you in until you are entwined in the lives of each and every character: a book has never before bought tears to my eyes. Alongside this are incredibly fascinating facts which help you gain such a deep understanding of what life was like for those both in the air and on the ground during WW2. Read this book!
At the end of a Len Deighton kick. This book was very detailed and had story lines on both the English and German sides, but had a hard time pulling the stories and the various characters together at the end. Interesting take on the morality of modern warfare and bombing.
An amazing and very wrenching novel. It brings home in brutal detail the reality of the bombing campaign in WW2.
