https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/315352.The_Scarlet_Ruse
Thanks to this one and Lawrence Block’s Keller series, I know more about philately then I ever thought I would.Travis McGee is coming off of one of his periodic retirements and looking for a new salvage gig in which he’ll try to recover items that people were scammed out of for half their value.
Since this is a Travis McGee book we’re talking about, there also has to be a lady for him to romance and his latest victim candidate is Hirsh’s assistant Mary Alice.I was having a fun time with this one through the first half of it as Travis tried to figure out how the stamps could have been switched as well as checking into Sprenger’s background.
"It's always better when you don't have to give a damn."- John D.
MacDonald, The Scarlet RuseIf Philatelic Beach Noir is your gig, this book is for you.
MacDonald flushes this idea out and weaves into it: the Mob, women, and Meyer (a trusty economist friend).
MacDonald is hanging out in Florida, which usually is my favorite setting for the owner of the Busted Flush.The plot is interesting and novel, the characters are round, and MacDonald nails the details.
I enjoyed it and don't remember being too turned off by MacDonald's usual treatment of women.
If I make a recovery of all or part of what you have lost, we take my expenses off the top and split the remainder down the middle.”His friend and houseboat neighbor Meyer is a doctor of economics and had the renaissance curiosity of Freakonomics 30 years before Freakonmics was published.MacDonald’s 1972 publication and 14th Travis McGee is about …Stamps.Yep, McGee is caught up in a mystery involving stamp collecting, philately, stamp investing and a lot of dangerous hijinks.
Travis’s client explains to him, and the readers, about how valuable some very rare stamps can be.MacDonald’s ability to convey accurate and moving characterizations is spot on and his libertarian asides are golden.
MacDonald's The Scarlet Ruse, there is not enough of McGee's sidekick and best friend Meyer present and extant (at least for me personally), I rather quickly began to lose interest and become somewhat bored and distracted.
Two and a half stars, rounded up to three stars, as I also feel I do not sufficiently recall enough of the specific plot of The Scarlet Ruse to be curmudgeonly, although I do indeed remember my disappointment when I picked up this novel in the late 80s and realised that Meyer was a little too absent for much of the time for me to truly and happily enjoy this fourteenth instalment of John D.
I will certainly have to check the shelves when I go back for a couple of weeks in May!This story was a bit unusual for me because it dealt with stamp collecting.
But I had fun reading because I used to collect stamps so I was not as confused by some of the terminology as a person who had never collected might have been.In the previous McGee book I read, he was approached at one point by a girl who asked him if he was pro-football player so and so.
This time it was a drunk guy in a bar who asked him the same question.
It was written in '73 and I am sad at how far it seems we haven't come:"Meyer made one of his surveys of the elderly couple in the Fort Lauderdale area, the ones being squeezed between the cost of living and their Social Security.
Amurrica should give them the financial dignity they had earned."Meyer's analysis of the true cause of their dissatisfaction:"all too many of them were screwed by consumer advertising.
Break it down into basic raw materials and then compute the power requirements and the fossil fuels needed to make everybody's share in this country.
(Or maybe because of that?) THE SCARLET RUSE offers, as many of the books do, insights into a slightly arcane subject matter area: where we've prior learned about, say, real estate financing, this time it's the world of very rare stamp investing.
The whole is somehow less than the sum of the parts in THE SCARLET RUSE, and the story doesn't have the relentless drive a Travis McGee novel usually does.
One chapter even feels like "bullet point" format--maybe JDM himself somehow wasn't so engaged by this installment of the series?
The busted Flush is threatened with eviction from Bahia Mar, but it turn out to be a ruse (heh, heh).The story revolves around mobsters, stamp collecting and investments. In the middle of the book, there is the standard line of live-and-let-live philosophy. But McGee is starting to sound like Spicolli," Good waves and some tasty bud, dude."The second half of the novel turns interesting with an atypical, snarling, sociopathic female, that plays McGee all to well. Of course, she has to die. This book relies on a fast-paced plot, rather than the wry, ironic writing MacDonald usually displays.
A page-turner by an excellent writer. A writer who can make "stamp collecting" exciting....actually it was more about investing in very expensive, unique, stamps from around the world. Buy and hold, then sell for six figures. But what happens when the costly stamps are somehow replaced with fakes? Now this is where Travis McGee enters and tries to find and recover them. There is a story behind the story here.
This one seemed to appeal a little more than some, as how a scam involving rare stamp collectibles was orchestrated generated a fair degree of suspense and surprise.
Travis is hired to salvage some sort of a switch involving similar but worthless stamps for valuable ones, when seemingly the only possible perp’s were the two long-time loyal female employees of the shop owner – pulled off in a safety box vault no less.As often happens, Travis gets “romantically involved” with one of the clerks – but the plot heats up considerably when the other is murdered.
****.As you probably know, Travis McGee is in the salvage business.
Meyer’s friend was a stamp dealer who was working with a client on a collection of investment stamps.
His client was probably a member of the syndicate who wanted to hedge his bets and make sure that his investments were secure.
The trouble started when the dealer realized that the stamps that he kept in a safety deposit box for his client were counterfeit.
McGee takes on the job, and, in the process, we learn an awful lot about stamps.
It’s a fascinating story with MacDonald having done his homework.
Meyer and Travis are going to be booted off their boats or will have to find a new place to dock.
Given the huge role played by the ocean and the various boats in this series, this seemed like a *major* story line in the making.
I was hooked!Too bad the matter was barely mentioned again until the ass end of the book when it all sorts itself out.The main story line was classic TMcG: someone does someone wrong, the recipient of the short end of the stick is referred to Travis, he accepts the salvage job, and the story builds from there.
It was scary good!So, far this series is my fifth all time favorite of Travis McGee's mystery adventure. She was so cunning, and a sly as a fox to used men just to get her own end. Taking advantage a trusting old man Fedderman, and exploiting his collectibles/rare stamps that are worth four hundred thousand dollars. Execute her friend Jane Lawson, and set up McGee and Sprenger to dispatch each other. Mary Alice McDermit, was the most hazardous syndicate killer, but Travis McGee knows a devious woman especially when he perceives one.
I loved this one ... I'm getting hooked on John D. MacDonald and Travis McGee, but this one seemed especially poignant to me. I loved the way Travis let himself get taken in by Mary Alice, written so brilliantly to capture him and sucker the one guy who is so hard to fool. I loved just how battered he was at the end of this one, how thoroughly he paid for letting himself get taken.

I'm pretty sure I read this in 1975 when staying on the island of Guam at Uncle Sam's behest but I don't remember it.
So that's the same as reading it for the first time.
What fun.
Travis Mcgee lives in Florida on a houseboat, "The Busted Flush", that he won in a poker game and does "salvage" work.
And that "salvage" work is pretty, pretty, pretty, damn close to private investigation work.
I smiled and nodded and wished him well." Its not Raymond Chandler but it is a fun fast read.
That same loyalty provokes him to seek Travis's help on behalf of an old friend, Hirsh Fedderman, an elderly philatelist and dealer.
Fedderman purchases stamps as investments for his clients.
Each collection is kept in a bank lockbox which can only be accessed when the client and Fedderman are both present.
To his horror, Fedderman has discovered that the collection of a client named Frank Sprenger has been replaced with a portfolio of inferior stock.
Fedderman only has two employees, one of whom would accompany him and the client to the bank to install each new purchase.
Here, MacDonald lavishes great attention on Mary Alice, one of Fedderman's two assistants.
“The Scarlet Ruse” is the fourteenth novel in the 21-book Travis McGee series and was first published in 1972, following 1971’s “A Tan and Sandy Silence.” It is a terrific mystery story and, in some ways, far more detailed than other McGee novels.
The dealer has an absolutely keen eye for the stamps, the imperfections, and the values to be found in them.
Unfortunately for the dealer, in examining one of the albums (one belonging to the local mobster), he realizes that it is filled with not the valuable items he got at auctions, but marred and dirty items of the same type, but not the same values.
However, helpful Meyer brings him a new salvage job, helping professional philatelist Hirsh Fedderman recover a valuable stamp collection that, almost impossibly, has been replaced by near-worthless junk while locked in a bank vault.
Even better, one of old Fedderman’s shop girls is a black-haired beauty built to the McGee scale: very tall, big-boned and conditioned like an Olympic athlete--all in all, "a pretty vivid hunk of lady" (p87)--and memorably depicted on the original 1973 paperback cover!
Despite everything, McGee can’t help feeling that “small tingle of anticipation” at the prospect of the next salvage job.
At the time of writing this book the author was at the height of his illustrious powers. In addition, he knew the characters so well that when a reader picked up a new McGee adventure he or she knew what to expect-quite simply the best of the genre. In this book our hero helps a friend of Meyer wriggle out from certain ruin and clashes with a ruthless, mob connected fellow. Well written, fabulously plotted and filled to the brim with great insights about life. Could not be recommended more.
John D Macdonald is quickly becoming my favorite pulp mystery writer. Sure, he invites you in with some cheap sex bit. But at least he makes you wait till chapter 4 to learn who the dame is. Macdonald does this stuff right. So many other writers of this genre get totally lost in the imagery of the women.
Travis McGee is not god. But he is superhuman. This is not the best Travis McGee mystery I've read, which makes it merely awesome. Plus you learn about stamp collecting. Without giving too much away...I've already said too much. Read it!
One of the best in the series, as McGee gets involved with mobsters, stamp collectors and a tall, buxom Bad Girl who nearly gets him killed. And an elderly but formidable woman named Miss Moojah, whose skill with a toy baseball bat is the stuff of legend.
✭✭✭
His decision to get involved ultimately puts both he and Meyer in grave danger.What truly sets McGee apart from other protagonists in the mystery genre, however, is not just the fact that he is a salvage consultant who gets involved in cases like this one.No, what adds to his uniqueness is the fact he is also a keen observer of - and commentator on - the life and times he lives in.In the long series of novels about him and his adventures by the prolific John D.

The lost ones, like Judy, get so far into the uppers and downers and the mind benders -- hardly ever knowing what they are taking, seeking only something in the blood that will bring the big rush, and warp the world -- that if told it would make a nice high, they would stuff a dead toad into their ear.
63-64)	Meyer made one of his surveys of the elderly couples in the Fort Lauderdale area, the ones being squeezed between the cost of living and their Social Security.
Meyer's survey was in depth, relating income over the working years to the pattern of spending.
I'm not reading these in any particular order, so a few references to previous events may elude my understanding. But in spite of that, I'm becoming fond of the McGee series. It's an intriguing read with well-drawn characters and enough research done into a topic (in this instance, professional stamp collecting) to convince a novice that MacDonald knows what he's talking about.
Another solid Travis McGee novel. Easily a 3 1/2 star book if they let me mark them that way. A lot more references to contemporary cultural icons in this one, that date the book more than usual. Fortunately, I am of an age where they were are familiar to me.
There are no bad John D MacDonald novels but this one is one of his best. Clever, nasty and subtle, it has a plot that will have you reeling. Really, if you've never read this classic crime author, check this one out.
