https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3099787-night-world-no-1
The problem with the current vampire genre is that it's like emo kids.
Not that, you know, I've ever seen either show...Has anyone else noticed that Chuck Bass usually looks really pissy?
In this book, one look is all it takes to see and recognize your soulmate, binding the two of you together in some kind of super powerful love that can probably conquer everything from the forces of darkness to paying for your phone bill.Sorry, folks.
this volume ,opps i almost said book this volume hold the first three books in the night world series my favorite was most deffinatly secerate vampire one thing i love about thease books is they dont have actual romance untill the end when everything is sorted out
These creatures live on the fringes of society and they don't interact with humans too much except to feed or eat them, but some Night people fall in love with Humans and they challenge the rules and their death by telling the humans about their world, the Night World.
I loved this book it was fast pace and i literally couldn't put it down until i had finished one of the stories.
It gave me a new perspective on certain life elements.
So crack open those pages and fall into a book filled with romance and life threatening encounters.
And while I find this concept distasteful I have to appreciate that Smith is seemingly using it’s reoccurrence to mend or break the old-school rules that inter-species or race dating is punishable by death within the Night World.
While I appreciate Smith’s introduction to her world here and the explanations of the varying natures of Night World creatures and how they differ from the standard definitions in other stories I am left unsatisfied by the characters themselves.
In this story my favourite characters are human, Eric and his sister Roz. I found Thea relatively boring, and Blaise more of an evil (or dark-witch) caricature than an actual character.
GENERAL OVERVIEW At first glance, this book appeared daunting because of its sheer length, 729 pages, and the fact that it's comprised of three novels in one. Once I started reading "Secret Vampire," I discovered that this was going to be a quick and rather boring read. It was similar to Twilight, although it should be noted that the original printing predated Meyer's series. The characters were flat and undeveloped making it difficult to relate to them. The plots of each story were rushed and
His own struggle to accept the new reality is glossed over in lieu of Poppy's and James' romance.The strengths of this story are their love (I'm not always against the cute stuff), some of the descriptions of the Night World, which will be analyzed in depth on my Lunch reviewing site, and Ash, who is truly the sole redeeming character in this story and the entire collection.
There are situations where they fight as equals, such as in "Spellbinder," or cases where the females dominate the action, as in "Daughters of Darkness." There was also more development of the interconnectedness of the paranormal universe of the Night World, especially the story about Hellewise and Maya, which explains the birth of vampires and the history of witches.
The premise here is that there are Night People (vampires, witches, werewolves) who live among regular humans and who are prohibited from disclosing any information about the secret world or fall in love with mortals.
It's a nice story, with quite a morbid air about it due to scenes of death, funeral, grave digging, etc."Daughters of Darkness" is a kind of a mystery which follows 3 vampire sisters arriving to a small town.
I still think that Smith's "Dark Visions" and "The Forbidden Game" trilogies are better, but these "Night World" are nicely done too and I will definitely continue on with the series.Reading challenge: #14, 1 of 4
I can hardly believe alot of the reviews I have been reading...You have three stories which are tied together loosely.
Each story has basically the same and the plot line, which is the point, but then they are never expounded upon.
You would need less than ten pages, per story line, to tell each of the three stories that were told...the rest was ridiculous and repetitive to the point of being ludicrous.
I am sorry that I always finish what I begin to read in this instance...but I stopped right there and haven't bothered to wonder what the titles are to the rest in this series.
I decided to re-read this and annotate this, I haven't read it in years and it was pretty nostalgic to do so! L J Smith has such an easy writing style to get into and her characters are always super likeable.I missed simple books like these, they're all under 200 pages each, they're so easy to readdddd. I probably won't read the other 6 for a while, I always hate getting to book 9 and not having a book 10 to dive into.
Love, love, love this book!! It good be because I enjoyed it so much 12 years ago, but I think it still holds up. Within this book, my favorite story is Daughter of Darkness. I just hope that L.J. Smith is finally able to publish the last book in the series. I've been waiting soooo long to finally find out what happens.
This is catalogued in our library as a mystery.
I have no idea.
It is really not a mystery series at all.
That said-I really liked this series.
There are Werewolves, vampires, and witches that all live in the secret society of the Night World.
Each book seems to pick up a different story line about the world.
It was odd, but I think Stephanie Meyer has to have read this series at some point.
There is the idea in the series that everyone has a soulmate.
IT really really reminded of the whole idea of imprinting in the Twilight series.
In a book slump so I'm going to use gifs to represent how I felt about books I never did a reviw on, k? k :)  I was unhealthy obsessed with these books so.... my 10 year old self:
Overall, the entire book was a good read.
I will, though, want to read the next books because it left me curious.
It isn’t amazing, wow factor but it’s good enough to like and continue reading.What I liked: Ash Redfern.
(If you read this book, you’ll see what I mean.) Another thing that I liked was that all the character from all three books seems to connected somehow.
It made it a very fast read, though, which can be a good thing.
Like I said, the books are not horrible or special, but it definitely keeps you wanting a bit more.
I really liked this book. I love paranormal romance and definatly reccomend it. My fave story was the second, Ash had me cracking up and i loved how his relationship with Mary-Lynnette changed. Oh, and i really liked Poppy in the first story :}
I liked him a lot, but I didn’t love him and he’s not my favorite male character in the collection of stories.Swoon Worthy Scale: 4The Villain- Ash… ;) He’s not a “bad” villain, but he’s an entertaining one and it doesn’t hurt that I think he’s awesome.Villain Scale: 3.5Poppy’s twin brother, Phil, is a huge character in this book.
It’s nice to read about a relationship between brother and sister that seemed real.Character Scale: 4Final Thoughts: I liked Secret Vampire a lot, but I wish it would’ve been longer.Book Two- Daughters of Darkness*Read summary above if forgotten*The main female character is Mary Lynette.
I got this free e-book from Simon & Schuster--apparently to tie in with Twilight's popularity, they are re-releasing this Night World series that was originally published around 1997 (I had read L.J. Smith's Vampire Diaries series back in the day, but not this series).
You could tell where car models had been updated as well as computer technology and the usage of "cellular telephones"), but the plot was exciting enough.One thing that completely fascinated me about this book: the music.
Here are some descriptions: "madcore stomping music from England," "a Dutch club song" (which is "fine for doing the Netherlands skippy dance to"), "a velvety Portuguese lament," "plaintive Bantu wailings," and "the strange rhythms of Burundi drumming." Whaaaat?
Ok, this is 3 books in one and the stars are averaged out.
It's YA Vampire/Werewolf/Witch novels, so you know, good stuff.
I couldn't stand Poppy in the first one, she annoyed me from the very first mention of her.
Her twin Phil is the only reason I kept reading, because she is ANNOYING.
And so I'm looking forward to how it will be dealt with in the other books which, sadly, are not available on Kindle yet so who knows when I'll read 'em!
(I have to say that this is my favorite story out of all three.)"Daughters of Darkness" is about three vampire sisters (The Redferns--Rowan, Kestrel and Jade) who flee the Nightworld to live among humans.
Since Mary-Lynnette and Mark are humans, they are now in danger of being killed by the Nightworld.
Ash is notoriously malicious, and as stated by Jade, "He HATES humans." Imagine Mary-Lynnette's surprise (and Ash's too, for that matter) when she discovers she and Ash are soulmates, and despite their differences they can't seem to stay away from each other.
"Night World" is basically a series of short paranormal romance stories for young adults.
The premise here is that there are Night People (vampires, witches, werewolves) who live among regular humans and who are prohibited from disclosing any information about the secret world or fall in love with mortals.
Each story in the series is about a supernatural creature falling in love with a regular person.
I still think that Smith's "Dark Visions" and "The Forbidden Game" trilogies are better, but these "Night World" are nicely done too and I will definitely continue on with the series.
The Vampire Diaries tv show was just starting up and I wanted to give the books a shot.
I read the first two Vampire Diaries books and they sucked hard.
And after the first, I wouldn't have read the next two, but they were in the same book.
And they're quick reads.
These stories are just awful.
They're full of stupid teenagers that have no clue about anything.
They're even dumber than most teenagers, making snap decisions that will effect the rest of their lives.
They're just awful.
I don't recommend that anyone reads these.
this book was definitely something different, but in a good way.
It's pretty much three stories about humans, and paranormal creatures breaking the rules, and falling in love, and getting into all sorts of exciting trouble.
One thing that i really enjoyed about this book is that it opened me to a new style of supernatural romance.
Usuall i read books that are filled with couples that show affection throughout the entire book.
But the story plots are awesome and it keeps you interested!
read the book!
its awesome!
I think I would have liked this as a kid.
It reminds me of what I read then (RL Stine, Christopher Pike), and though I haven't reread any of those recently, I feel like Smith's writing is not quite at the level as the other two (not that Stine is necessarily great, though I remember continuing to be impressed with Pike).
It was light and fun and utterly predictable, which may be fine when you're twelve, but for not much longer after that.
It was often overly simple, in structure and substance.
Either way, they are a super quick, couple hour read.
Evvet sonunda bitti... Aslında kitabı ilk hikaye dışında beğendim. Ama cidden bazen insanı boğacak şekilde sıkıcılaşabiliyordu. Okuduğuma pişman mıyım? Doğruyu söylemek gerekirse hayır :D Hikayeleri puanlamak gerekirse Gizli Vampire 2, diğer iki hikayeye de 4 verirdim :)) İyiydi yani daha doğrusu Ash çoook iyiydi, keşke bütün kitap onun üzerine yazılı olsaydı :D Bakalım diğer kitaplar nasıl olacak :))
The stories all center on 'forbidden' relationships that the members of the Night World have with humans and the consequences of these forbidden unions.They aren't steamy reads by any means.
Of course, each story will break it down for you, and Smith is able to feed us exposition in ways that remain interesting even three books in - perhaps because there's a lot to play with in her universe.
I can tell you that if you're looking for varied stories that are quick to read (we're talking an afternoon, judging on how most of my friends read) with interesting characters, you'll find it here.
The first book, Secret Vampire, was really good.
I found out that Poppy and Phil were witches from their father's side of the family.The second book was Daughters of Darkness.
While their the younger sister fell in love with a human neighbor named Mark.
He fell in love with Mark's older sister Mary-Lynette.The last book, Spellbinder, was my favorite of them all.
It was about how a witch named Thea fell in love witha human named Eric.
At the end of the book Blaise tricked the adults into thinking that Thea and Eric forgot everything about magic an the Night World.
Her best friend James is a vampire of the Night World.
He can save her by making her immortal, breaking the two basic rules of the Night World: don't fall in love with a human, and don't tell a human about the Night World.In Daughters of Darkness three vampire sisters leave their isolated home to live with their aunt in a rural town.
The first two stories deal with vampires, which I'm a big fan of.
The laws of Night World are very strict, and anyone that breaks the laws is sentenced to death.
I'll definitely be picking up the rest of the Night World series.
Truth is I read the second book first and then I read the third one and this one.None of the stories in this book are great like L.J Smith's other books.In 'Secret Vampire' I liked the plot line but I didn't find James to have much depth and I didn't find him very belivable.Everything else was good but I wish I had gotten a little more from Cliff, the stepdad.Even so this was my favorite story in this book.
Anywho, onto 'Spellbinder' I had no real problems with this book it was good but just good.I keep re-reading too see if maybe there were some key points I missed that really gave the stories an oomph.
I remember going to B&N and seeing this series all the time.
I bought Twilight(guilty), among other books, and those books just wouldn't budge from the same shelf as the rest of the supernatural.
The whole never tell a human about you or fall in love with them thing is kinda cool and cheesy.
Read the books about 4 years ago and re read them this year just to remember marvelous Ash. He is who kept me going through the series more and more.
Love the series.
All 9 short books of them.
Secret Vampire was the first book I had read by LJ Smith and with it, began the start of my love affair with her writing. Her characters are enchanting and her stories are vibrant and addicting. The NightWorld series was unlike anything I had ever read and continues to be one of my all time favorite books from childhood.
DNFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
I liked these predecessors to the Twilight series. It was interesting to see the parallels. The characters here were complex, strong and interesting.
