https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76964.Mystery_of_the_Whale_Tattoo
Yet another thrilling addition to the classic Hardy Boys mystery book series.
A better than average tale (with the average being three stars) that had nearly every member of the supporting cast involved. Chet got a lot of page time while Biff and Tony were integral to the 'macguffin' being found, lost, and found again. Even Jack Wayne shows up to fly two different types of aircraft and then throw a beating on the bad guys. Lots of fisticuffs, investigating, and just a whole lot of fun.
Chet loves to eat, doesn't enjoy danger--but is a loyal friend regardless, and always has a new hobby to talk about...a hobby that coincides in some way with the Hardy's latest case.
This "week" it is scrimshaw (a perennial favorite hobby of teen-age males everywhere...this author excepted).Two other friends of the Hardys' that feature prominently in their novels are Tony Prito and Biff Hooper.
Both teen-agers, along with Chet, attend Bayport High School with the Hardys.The Story, as always, Briefly:Solo's Super Circus has set-up in Bayport...
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
A carnival mystery? Ugh. No thanks. If I ever write mysteries, remind me to never set one at a carnival or a circus. This one wasn't as good as most.
This plot is pretty thin...my least favourite so far.
I used to love these books when I was younger but now it's not as good as I remember. So sad.
I was only ever a so-so Hardy Boys fan. They were too dang perfect. It was interesting to read, though. I will be reading some more to see if I was too harsh.
Not quite up to par with the rest of the series.
Great book. I am learning something new every time I read one of the Hardy Boy books.
Found this in an op shop and thought I'd revisit a bit of my youth.
Let's say you were a truck driver and two 17-year-old punks forced you off the road in their convertible.
You either call the cops and have their punk asses chucked in jail (law-abiding version) or beat them to a pulp and leave them in a ditch by the road (violent, non-law-abiding version).
I seem to remember enjoying them when I was a kid–sort of Nancy Drew with fistfights.My copy: obtained at the Winchelsea op shop as part of a $5 bag-o-books.
One of my favorite childhood series.
Picked this up from a charity store in Bristol, mainly for its cover (although not the one shown here - it had Joe Hardy about to step off the top of a ferris wheel blindfolded). I read it on the way back. It was good fun - enjoyable twists, mixed in with a couple of bits of hilariously bad writing. Totally preposterous of course. Not really ratable.
Very silly, even campy in places, but in a fun way. Quite a good mystery, lots of twists, plenty of action, fun to follow along with. Chet gets to play a pretty big role in this one, and it's fun to see his character expanded and doing more. Add in some cute brotherly moments, and it's makes for goofy, entertaining read I'd recommend.
The mystery of the whale tattoo is a really good book. I really felt like it gave the mystery type feel. Plus the cover is really creepy.I really liked how the author wrote it. The way he introduced the characters. I would recommend this book to anyone who has read these books before.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys, Frank and Joe, are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their father's footsteps.
The Hardy's investigation of a missing informant who knows the location of a valuable whale artefact is the backdrop for this slightly weaker adventure. Granted, there are suspects, but very few, and some ate so obviously red herrings it becomes a little laughable.
it was... pretty good...kind of...surprising...
Very Interesting!:)
It started out interesting but got worse as it went on.
There were a few suspects but this mystery was a little predictable. They followed hunches that were obviously wrong.
Read in 2005.
My book has the same cover as shown in this listing but was published in 1996.
Let's just say this book had carnies and a giant stuffed whale... Yeah, pretty awesome.
Dixon, Franklin W.
So fun....great vocabulary....great era.....love it to read aloud with my teen age son who is laid low under chemotherapy....perks us up and makes us laugh and smile
The Hardy Boys help their father Fenton Hardy solve a case
SM
