https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90629._Repent_Harlequin_Said_the_Ticktockman
In a future where humanity has become obsessed with timekeeping and punctuality, a single mysterious figure tries to make a change, by wasting everybody's time.Try reading that in a deep movie trailer voice.
In this future we have become so obsessed with punctuality that tardiness has become a crime and the duration of your tardiness will be deducted from your lifespan.
I don’t know how relevant the theme is today, certainly I am late for work every day and I tend to get away with it!_______________________Note: You can read this story for free online, just Google* the title.
R.I.P. Harlan Ellison - thanks for warning us about the Ticktockman.
The obverse side is today.That title, wow. Something as elegant as that title promises so much. If you aren't aware, then I encourage you to read a brief overview about harlequins on Wikipedia.  My soul would be an outlaw. I can do nothing with it. Today, in a time obsessed with everyone being special, does this even make sense? The zeitgeist associated with the author's plea of acceptance over rigidity and sameness is nearly the other end of the pendulum swing. Where people demand exemptions re
The obverse side is today.That title, wow.
Something as elegant as that title promises so much.
If you aren't aware, then I encourage you to read a brief overview about harlequins on Wikipedia.
Today, in a time obsessed with everyone being special, does this even make sense?
Where people demand exemptions regardless of need to validate how special they are.
The performance of individuality is nearly as ridiculous as the conformity Ellison was railing against in this story.
It is concise, elegant, and makes evident why Ellison was awarded so many honors.
"Who is the Harlequin?"
In this republication of an old story by the author, a regimented futuristic utopia is presented.
It is so dependent on timing and scheduling that one resident known as the Harlequin rebels against the boring order in favor of spontaneity and fantastical practical jokes.
These activities throw schedules and productivity of the society seriously out of whack.
There is escalation on both sides as the Harlequin gains mysterious powers.
I remain curious about other more substantial work by Ellison, whom I have failed to read before this opportunity.This story was provided by the publisher for review by the Netgalley program.
What a title! That alone would deserve 5 stars - it covers the whole story with the result of the conflict between the main protagonists. Full review at my blog.
A masterful allegory, albeit a fatalistic one, that resonates with every comuter in the world.The 60's Hugo awards housed some prophecies that only became more serious in the age of social media.
Roughly, imagine 1984 as a big-budget comedy with a lot of CGI. Oddly enough, it works, or at least I thought it did when I read this in my early teens.
What a bizarre story, but in a good way. Aside from being hard to follow, I absolutely loved this absurdist/satirical take on how extreme order could create a hilarious dystopia.
A comically disturbing short story about time, time, time, the universe of time robots and the time rebel.
“We no longer let time serve us, we serve time and we are slaves of the schedule, worshippers of the sun’s passing, bound into a life predicated on restrictions because the system will not function if we don’t keep the schedule tight.”Harlan Ellison is one of the greatest short-story tellers I have had the pleasure of reading.
Think of it as a more brilliant version of the loosely (very loosely) based film “In Time.” But there is one soul that decides to waste everyone’s time, for tardiness is a crime, and by doing activities that will disrupt the day, this “harlequin” is slowly making everyone loose life-time.
Don’t be slaves of time, it’s a helluva way to die, slowly, by degrees…down with the Ticktockman!”
I hunted this down after learning the Justin Timberlake sci-fi movie In Time was loosely based on this short story.
It seems to be a stretch, but hey, whatever.2) I say "I hunted this down" because this book is out-of-print and not available digitally (how the publisher did not release this as a Kindle book to coincide with the movie's release is beyond me).
It is an extremely stylized look at some 60's counter-culture talking points, but also works as a great sci-fi/dystopian story, and somehow also manages to have a steam-punk flavor to it.
And then countless times.
And every time I do, it offers me something more, something different.
It's an eccentric story, no less terrifying for it's rather interesting characters.
A world where people are simply turned "off" when their time finishes - terrifying, right?
The Ticktockman, if you haven't guessed already, is the one who does the turning off.
Now Harlequin is the rebel character - only, he is a rebel with a cause.
There are so many layers to this story and you have to wonder about the genius of it's author considering he wrote it in less than twenty minutes.
Ich las Harlan Ellisons Erzählung "Bereue, Harlekin!
Ich habe viel von Ellisons Erzählungen gelesen und habe sie normalerweise genoßen.
Ich habe sie schon oft auf Englisch gelesen, weil sie in vielen Antholgien ist.
Diese Lesung war meine erste auf deutsch.Die Erzählung wurde erstmals 1965 im Galaxy Magazin veröffentlicht.
Die erste Buchpublikation erschien 1965 in Ellisons Paingod and Other Delusions.Sie ist weitgehend eine metaphorische Arbeit mit kaum beschriebenen Charakteren.
Sie verurteilt die moderne Gesellschaft und ihren entmenschlichenden Zeitdruck.
Es ist ein ernstes Thema, ähnlich wie George Orwells 1984.
Doch hatte ich vergessen, wie humorvoll die Erzählung ist.
Love this short story!
Somehow I thought this was a book of stories, but no, it is just the one short story. A fairly nice parable about resistance to conformity. Government has the power to shorten people's lives to punish them for being late, thus getting society to move smoothly and on time. Harlequin resits and is eventually brought down. But his resistance is not in vain.
It must be nice, living in a society where there is so much order, rigidity and time-keeping, that people write books criticizing such life-styles.
I'm sure it gets stifling after a while, but when you come from a country where there is anything but order, and the concept of "being on time" is almost never applied, it's hard not to raise an incredulous eyebrow.
It's like a summary of every dystopian book out there, and it's an important message whether you live in a boring society or a post-revolution country.
It wasn't worth him writing this essay in the form of a story because he didn't seem to care about his characters or world (I didn't either), and his use of metaphor was as on-the-nose as it gets.
After reading it I found out that the finished story was almost unchanged from the first draft; yeah, no shit.Still, almost everyone else seems to like it so I may well have missed something, or maybe the generational gap of 50 years is to blame.
If I'd have read this when it was released I'm sure it would've seemed more groundbreaking than derivative.
I used to have a boss that would dock my pay each time I showed up late to work. I used to call him an untranslatable French swear word but, come to think of it, "The Ticktockman" is the perfect appellation. Harlequin, you magnificent bastard, I wish I could wear a clown costume like you, drop millions of jelly beans in the streets and spread terror among the ticktockmen of the world. You are a true inspiration to all of us who have worked for a ticktockman at some point.
but you can’t make an omelet without breaking a few eggs, and in every revolution, a few die who shouldn’t, but they have to, because that’s the way it happens, and if you make only a little change, then it seems to be worthwhile(واحفظ اسامى اللى ماتوا فى الشوارع صم)
There are stories that everyone should read; this is one of them.
Classic Ellison! Re-read the story as a humble homage to the great writer, after going through newsfeed. Already enough has been said about this one, and I can hardly add anything new. Only submission would be to state that, if you wish to understand the literary magic that can keep a purportedly science fiction story alive & "ticking" after more than 50 years, you have to read this one.Recommended, goes without saying.
It is not a classic because of its theme - standard stuff about individual revolt against regimentation (Ellison refers deliberately to '1984' in the story) - but because of the way he treats it.The story is actually very funny for all its ultimately grim subject matter.
Whereas Orwell leaves us in a funk of grey dystopian British gloom, Ellison leaves us laughing with (not at) the same basic outcome because of the fun had along the way.Watching authority being flummoxed and humiliated (by jelly beans at the beginning which is the middle) is always immensely enjoyable.
I loved this because it broke many of the rules I've learned about storytelling to fantastic effect. The narrative style felt clever, cerebral, unemotional, yet I felt totally invested in the fate of the characters. What an example of building an entire world and society in a tight space with never a moment of boring exposition.
In praise of the eccentrics - the condensed versionThis is my first exposure to Harlan Ellison (not counting viewing the classic Star Trek episode, 'The City on the Edge of Forever'), but it won't be my last.
My own reputation for never being punctual makes the Harlequin a personal hero to me, and most likely to the narrator, for the story reads as if the narrator is describing the alternate world where the Devil on his shoulder resides when his Trickster advice is not needed.
Ellison's language is as playful as his protagonist, and his pointed use of history, pop culture, and philosophy make this a densely packed gem.
Ellison is the only author I've ever read that can write a two-page story and have you feeling for the main character.
The characters in this aren't AS developed as many of his often are but there is so much more going on that it doesn't even matter.This is a short-story, which means I hold it to different standards than a novel.
The beauty of the words blended with the overall message of the story had me stunned.
For all his arrogance, Ellison has a way with words - and he knows it.
Read this story.
there is no excuse for not reading this : short and clear and important, proof that a good writer doesn't need hundreds of pages to get the message across.What's it about? Life, and how to live it ...
This is by far my favorite short story, possibly even my favorite work of fiction. The Thoreau quote from Civil Disobedience at the beginning is the icing on the cake.
A brilliant story with zero fat in it. And for being a dystopian story it makes you smile in the end, knowing a simple drop you make can cause a ripple that moves mountains.
Jellybeans!
An attempt to wake the wakeless.
