https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15842439-warm-bodies
But I will tell you this: it doesn’t feel like a zombie book.2.
What really makes this book not feel like a zombie book is that it’s told from R’s point of view -- and he’s a zombie.
It’s not glorified or toned down, but R makes the book different because he’s different.
It’s not that I don’t like long books -- I love ‘em.
The book begins with R saving a girl -- Julie -- from certain death from both himself and other zombies.
No, really, really, it does not read like a zombie book.
This is one of those books where I had to buckle up and stop asking questions because I wasn't going to get any decent answers.After the intial zombie world establishing is out of the way the story is just a weird retelling of Romeo and Juliet.
I would have preferred R's story be about finding redemption for what he'd done and learning to fight the virus and change his nature.By eating Perry's brain, R gets to steal his memories and experiences -- the grief after his mother's death, the world's upheaval, and most importantly meeting and falling in love with Julie.
But after meeting Julie, a human girl he impulsively saves and hides away in an abandoned plane, he begins to experience thoughts and feelings that he'd forgotten he'd ever had.Warm Bodies is a wistful love story that is creepy, sad, sweet, and disturbing in equal measure.
A story like this obviously requires that readers suspend a fair amount of disbelief, but the focus here isn't on the technical aspects of survival anyway, but more on the idea that the desire for dignity and tenderness have just as much to do with humanity as does a collection of blood and muscles and cells.The gentle sentiment in this story took me completely by surprise, especially as it contrasts so sharply with the visceral feedings that keep the zombies alive.
Made the list forBest Badass Zombie Books...http://badassbookreviews.com/the-best...Lessons learned from R (who happens to be a zombie)1.
That is until the power goes out and you are stuck.
2. Freaking out is not going to help, instead get married!
3. Sometimes a little brain goes a long way, unless of course you just ate the last of it, and then you are so screwed.4.
Your identity is what people remember about you when you leave the room.6.
Sometimes humans are scarier than zombies!I'll eventually do a real review but I just adored R and for the time being will leave this review like this.
You know that time after you read a really spectacular book when you're just sitting around, thinking about how wonderful it was and going over passages you loved?
Every time I think about Warm Bodies, I wonder at how good it was.Warm Bodies follows R, a zombie unlike those we normally read about.
It's hard to believe I would ever feel anything but disgust for a zombie, but it happened with this book.I also liked Julie.
But I also just love books and authors that just don't need to leave you aggravated and desperate for a sequel that many times you don't particularly want.
She's finally old enough to go out on a raiding mission but when she does, her team gets ambushed almost immediately.As R chomps on the brain of Julie's boyfriend (Perry), he experiences the memories.
Seeing Julie from Perry's perspective changes something truly and wholly within R.
Without really knowing why, R knows he has one new priority - protect Julie.For a zombie love story - this one was rather sweet and not nearly as gorey as I would've expected.
The love between Julie and R is quick but not unbelievable.
Julie's best friend (Nora) was just the right amount of sassy and badass.
I first heard of this book through the movie trailer.
'R' is a zombie with personality.
Even the other zombies think he is odd.
When he eats the brain of a young man named Perry and saving a human girl, things begin to change for him.
He gets flashbacks of Perry's life, giving him a familiarity to the girl, Julie, he saved.
Then again, I never read of a zombie society.
Personally though, I wish the story was drawn out a bit more to give the same attention to the ending that the beginning received.
This is not a young adult novel.I mean, it is about a young adultish human and zombie who fall in love and set about to change the world with love.
In fact, the way it restructured some events, I actually thought, created a more emotional impact.But the book itself is still pretty good, though I wonder at some of the weird turns it takes.
Otherwise, if you like zombies, existential crises, stories of young people improbably overcoming impossible circumstances and weird zombie sex, then this is the book for you!Just don’t call it a young adult novel, okay?This review, and others like it can also be found on my blog, Cuddlebuggery Book Blog.
R and hundreds of other zombies live in an abandoned airport, going on group hunts to the city to try to find food, in the form of humans.
R and his friend M lead a zombie hunting party to the city one day and come across a group of humans who have ventured out of the stadium where they live.
And as R continues to snack on bits of Perry’s brain that he saved for later, many of Perry’s thoughts and memories are shared with him; kind of like in Stephenie Meyer’s The Host, Perry is often a separate voice in R’s head.
Much better than I expected - especially after the start. I really wasn't going to sure if I would care for this one because it seemed a little silly at first.But, after I got into it, it started to have some interesting action sequences and some really deep introspection on the human condition.
I don’t know about you, but I’m feeling pretty nauseous here.
If you’ve got it, try thinking of a way to make that feeling and that relationship adorable.
I hate his screams because I don’t like pain, I don’t like hurting people, but it’s the world now.
Of course if I don’t eat all of him, if I spare his brain, he’ll rise up and follow me back to the airport, and that might make me feel better.
Through the memories of a guy whose brain he ate, R falls in love with a Living girl named Julie.
It has a bittersweet edge - along side the sweet endearing thoughts of "R" there's lots of wonderfully descriptive detail on zombies eating humans, which was completely disgusting but I loved it all the same.
He does eat people, yes, and he shuffles along with only one thought and that's to munch his way through humanity, but things begin to change for "R" when he meets Julie.
But after meeting Julie, and eating Perry, things begin to change.With each bite of cerebrum, Perry comes alive in "R's" mind and "R" sees Perry's life from childhood until the very moment he dies.
The closest book to the show Walking Dead that I've read is The First Days, so if you're needing more of that gory, survivalist-type of zombie book, I'd check that one out.This book, however, is fresh in my mind due to the author himself making some recent comments that he's not altogether thrilled about some book stores shelving his book as Young Adult instead of Adult fiction.
Does the book read like adult or YA?
I honestly think the book would work for readers of both YA and adult fiction.
The zombies in this world are capable of change and controlling their need/want for brains and meat.I was happy to know that should the zombie apocalypse happen, I would be spared since I am fat and the zombies don't eat fat!
These are other things I learned from the book:1) Zombies are people too, you know!2) Zombies deserve love.3) Zombies can only remember the first letter of their Living name, if that.4) Zombies get high off brains, which allows them to relive memories of the person they killed (but they usually just eat the regular old meat off the bones).5) Zombies can't have sex, but some of them still try.6) Zombies decay at different rates.7) Zombies can communicate just by staring and groaning at each other.
amazing book, just read it!
I read this book to complete the #TBRTakedown challenge of reading a book outside my comfort zone.
I've never been into zombie movies and until this book, I've never read any books with zombies.
Overall, I just thought this book was okay..
Some parts really grossed me out...
Parts of it seemed rushed and like we didn't get to learn a lot about the world..
Or there just wasn't enough world building I suppose...
I did think it was interesting and I liked the changes the main character, R, went through...
If you are really into zombie movies/books you'll probably like it.
He likes collecting things from the past before almost all the people died or became zombies and loves listening to old records.
He saves the girlfriend of the deceased, he takes her back to his 747 home and he looks after her i.e. he doesn't eat her, he doesn't let the other zombies eat her and he provides shelter and food for her.Julie doesn't understand why she is still alive but I have to admit that she is very cool and apathetic about the whole situation.
It was a little confusing with Perry, but I did appreciate the idea that zombies crave and eat the brain at least in part to relive memories.
I mean, I get that it is hard to come up with a new take on the zombie novel, and I am all in favor of peace, love and harmony, but the idea of love being the cure to the zombie plague just made me roll my eyes.
The zombie is "R(omeo)", the girl he is in love with is Julie(t), her previous boyfriend who R eats is Perry (Paris), and R's best friend is M(ecrutio).
I mean, really, obvious much?And what's with Julie being so forgiving of R killing Perry?
Zombie war ended by teenage love.
It’s official: this book is fuckin whack. But somehow good?!?! I don’t really understand how this works but it does… and why did it take me so long to read it?? Isaac Marion is strangely great at giving a zombie perspective. R + Julie for life and death.
But these zombies think and wax poetic about the important things in life (or afterlife in zombies’ case), but it's all inside their head since they can only utter monosyllabic words.
Once R consumes a small part of Perry’s brain, he has vivid flashes of Perry’s memory, especially Perry’s girlfriend Julie.
Surprised by these new feelings that he has for this human, he brings Julie back to the airport to protect her.
But Julie isn’t the only thing that R brings back with him.
You also learn that zombies can be pretty articulate inside their head, but they can’t verbalize it so much.
Even if the background was not as clearly explained as I want it to be, MAN, would I like to pick the brain of the person behind this story!His zombie world reminded me of Tom Imura in R&R.
With that concept in place, we meet R the MC-zombie who surprisingly waxes on and on about his/their existence, being.
I could definitely feel R’s confusion about what he saw, but Perry’s dissatisfaction/apathy came across loud and clear too.
So here are three things I’m paraphrasing form WARM BODIES to describe it and how it made me feel: I felt confused.
Update: Just saw movie trailer....i laughed out loud...and squealed. Here is the link ---> http://youtu.be/qrI8YIZsBok HOLY. MOTHER. OF. ALL. THAT. IS. GORGEOUS. Could any amount of my insignificant words fully encompass the greatness of this book? The answer here is no, no because the words printed on each copy of Warm Bodies are already tuned to a vast perfection greater than the sky itself. Isaac Marion..I applaud you, I give you ten million standing ovations, I declare you to be a master
Let me start off with a summary of the plot so I can go into more detail on why I fell in love with this book.
Zombies are painted in a very different light in this book, being described more as "humans with diseases" rather than a "spawn of the dead" type thing.
What has me reeling and panting from the book high is the style, the content, the ideas that the author incorporated into this piece of literature that should be taught in schools, read by millions and shared by the world.
I loved this book, I think everyone should definitely read it.
I decided to read the book, because as the old adage goes, "The book is always better than the movie."Oh how that's true.This humanized (quite literally) the zombies and their plight, while making epic comparisons to the state of survival versus living.
What does it mean to be undead?This book is so much more than a Romeo and Juliet zombie drama.
This is so much more than the Twilight with zombies.
It's about how love is what makes us human, sometimes quite liteRally."You should always be taking pictures, if not with a camera then with your mind.
A likable premise with some genuinely funny material, Warm Bodies is clever but still pinned down under the predictable tropes of the zombie subgenre. It's a good story and one of few that actually speaks from a zombie's perspective (except perhaps The Girl with All the Gifts), but it starts to drag on and get old really quickly.
4 1/2 stars.I only read this book because I was expecting blood, gore and mild necrophilia.Instead, I got a beautifully poetic book full of immaculately developed characters and gorgeous prose that demolished the well-worn cliches of zombie literature and everything I thought I knew about those old shufflers. Man I hate it when I don't get what I want. Pfft.
finished and I loved it!!  I'm so freakin excited to be starting this!!! Anyone who knows me well, knows that I have a love for all things zombies. So when my sis told me about a zombie romance, I said hell yeah I need to read this!!! I'm ready for some Zombie love!! Buddy read with Marta, Brenda and Rosanna! **********************************************************Can't wait to meet the very interesting and very dead "R"
After falling head over heels for a human named Julie, R starts a chain of events that might change the world forever.Warm Bodies (the book) was released in 2011.
Warm Bodies on the other hand is narrated from the perspective of one of the living dead.
Such symbolism throughout the novel leaves readers with more than one new perspective on the shape of today's society, and on what really matters in day-to-day life.The spread of the zombie virus, although medical in theory, perhaps is just another way of personifying what happens when we allow ourselves to be governed by things which do not matter, and, in effect, become no more than human shells acting out a life of falsehood, always in search of external, spiritless rewards.In 2013 Warm Bodies (the movie), was released.
I used to avoid any zombie movies or novels before reading Warm Bodies Well I still believe zombies are creepy but this book shook my thoughts upside down.
Warm Bodies is a sensitive love story of a young zombie R and a human girl Julie with a music of pensive sadness, that will cause a sensation as of things crawling on your skin.
I believe no zombie book was ever pictured those sides of a Zombie life.A Quick LookWhen R killed Perry, a human boy, he accidentally ate his brain, and felt an impulsive urge to save Perry’s girlfriend Julie.
3.5 starsA philosophical zombie love story is not something I expected! I thoroughly enjoyed this and the prose was gorgeous (albeit a bit purple, but enjoyable still). I REALLY WISH I READ THIS WHEN THE SEQUEL WAS ALREADY OUT THOUGH. I have so many questions I need answered!
Wholly unexpected, thoroughly enjoyable. Full review to come...
