https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148109.Escape_from_Reason
Schaeffer writes that man's desire for autonomous freedom began with Aquinas's theology which argued that though man fell in Eden, his intellect did not.
This created a system in philosophy that argued that man's reason was autonomous--meaning free and independent of any constraint.
This opened the door to later philosophers to build philosophic arguments independent of God. But the problem is that man's desire for autonomy cannot be reconciled to the constraining forces in this world.
This realization leads to the despair of modern man who believes he is but a mere machine in a mechanistic world and any 'meaning' is ultimately absurd because it doesn't exist--it can only be imagined or hoped for--hence man has escaped from reason and is irrational.
Schaeffer rejects Kierkegaard's understanding of God, that God is fundamentally other from reason; this is a tragedy.
Kierkegaard's understanding of God as impossible and transcendent is relatable to the modern man, and may inspire him to seek out God, with God revealing himself as immanent, on his own terms.I would absolutely recommend this book, as long as it's read critically, by someone who knows not just what modern thinkers are saying, but why and how they're communicating.
First published in 1968 (the edition that I read), many of these ideas are incorporated into Schaffer's How Shall We Then Live?
book, which was published later.
To read this book now, however, in the context of an American culture that is rapidly aiming its fiercest attacks at Christians, is to read a prophet.
Too many of us fail to grasp how powerfully and subtly popular culture has carried the torch of atheist and nihilistic thinking and too many evangelicals cannot recognize anti-Christian thinking that is everywhere.
Escape from Reason is an easy book to read, which I liked.
This is the first book that I have read by Schaeffer and I like it for what it tries to do.Schaeffer spends a majority of the book tracking how societies world view has been changing and who were some of the primary influences/people that caused this.
He also addresses some of the mistakes Christians have made in the process in the past such that we can learn from them.It is a short easy to read book that I would suggest if you are interested in this topic.
highly elucidating apologetics through a historical delineation of philosophy, existentialism, and art from Aquinas' time (the beginning of divorce between Grace and Nature) up to nihilism and the absurd.recommended reading for anyone interested in why the last several generations have been part of a psychology of despair and where a lot of christianity today has gone wrong in representing itself.
this is not a watered-down tract like most christian works, nor is it a guidebook to conversion.
unfortunately our generation has already moved past it and is capable of accepting sundry, dialogic truths of which christian tradition has a dearth.
I have heard others cast doubt on the particulars of Schaeffer's analysis in sweeping books like these. I haven't read enough Aquinas, de Sade, Camus, Sartre, Kierkegaard, Foucault, Malraux, Heidegger, etc. to say. But Schaeffer's overall synthesis—his many different upper- and lower-story diagrams—seem right to me. If indeed he's right, the overall analysis, the big picture, may be more important than the particulars. It does seem as if Western man has done just what Schaeffer says: we've removed grace from the upper story, replaced it with freedom or faith or other things, and then finally cut it off completely.
Excellent. Also read in November 1980.
On the other hand, his critiques of Kierkegaard and Heidegger are a little bit more interesting, as he shows how these contemporary philosophers have had an enormous influence on our current society.In fifth chapter Schaeffer contends that since man has failed to unify experience in nature and since also modern man has long since abandoned "grace" or "heaven" or "Scriptures" as the principle of experiential (i.e. existential and ontological and epistemological) unification, he has nothing left but despair.
Lembro da primeira vez que tentei ler esse livro, há alguns anos.
Anos depois, retomo a leitura e (para a minha surpresa!) capto bem o propósito da obra.
Schaeffer aborda historicamente as ideias agnósticas acerca da realidade última.
filmes, teatro, livros, música etc), mas na própria teologia cristã.
O autor mostra que o "existencialismo cristão", refletindo-se na neo-ortodoxia, também torna o misticismo como um fator fundamental na realidade última a despeito da historicidade dos eventos bíblicos.
Um livro difícil para entender em muitos pontos, mas útil, atual, relevante e urgente para o nosso mundo pós-cristão.
Recomendo para cristãos universitários, seminaristas e professores!
People tend to love this book or hate it.
There are fans of every philosophy, and many fans not only cheer for their team, they boo the other teams.
Instead of being for or against, I hope the reader sees this as a tour through some powerful ideas that have been important to Western cultural development.
Any understanding we gain from this book improves our perspective.
If nothing else, perspective is what this book is all about.
I had already read some Marx, Kierkegaard, Hegel, Plato, and other Western philosophy.
Read the book, not the reviews, and make up your own mind.
Read this a few years back, and it was SUCH an eye-opener in terms of how (atheistic) philosophical assumptions have changed over time, and how society has moved from the 'upper room'. (I think that was the term he used) Yep, this was a really thought-provoking read but only in the sense that it gave me even more reasons to back up my belief in how atheism, as a way of life and world-view, does not work, and has not over centuries in which it has changed and evolved at the same time that society has.
Pobre Tomas de Aquino, Schaeffer se manda con todo contra él, pero cabe rescatar la línea apologética de Schaeffer para tal acción. El Libro muestra muchas cosas que como cristianos descartamos, sin embargo hay mucha terminología nueva que se aprenderá.
Sensacional! É Schaeffer, não é?
Aquinas’ focus on particulars opened up the world of nature in art.
It reads:If Aquinas’s focus on particulars, then we will see the influence of Cimabue’s paintings on nature.We see the influence of Cimabue’s paintings on nature.Therefore, Aquinas is the influence.This is the fallacy of affirming the consequent.
Nevertheless, Schaeffer offers a number of diagrams that demonstrate this nature-grace fall (which I will show at the end of the review).Reformation man didn’t have this duality of nature and grace, since God’s propositional revelation spoke to both storeys.
Well...'Escape from Reason' lived up to its name.
Escape from Reason sums it up well.
if you don't value reason you might be convinced that the old covenant and the new covenant are two separate books...
but then you come to have two separate 'gods' a god of the old covenant and a god of the new...
If the bible contains value, it is in the teachings of Jesus.
If you pick and choose what books from this period of writing are for keeping and what books are apocryphal you do not have a single unit.
This book may be better than my 2 star rating, but I just really struggled to get into it.
I guess it sort of did that, but certainly took the scenic route.
I spent a lot of time googling to try and make sense of things that once I did understand them I didn't care about anyway.
Personally, I think about 1/4 of the book was very well written, the rest would maybe make more sense if taking LSD, then reading.
An escape from reason, it certainly was....
"The Reformation had some tremendous results, and made possible the culture which many of us love- even though our generation is now throwing it away.
The Reformation confronts us with an Adam who was, using twentieth-century thought-forms, an unprogrammed man- he was not set up as a punch-card in a computer system.
One thing that marks twentieth-century man is that he cannot visualize this, because modern man is infiltrated by a concept of determinism.
But the biblical position is clear - man cannot be explained as totally determined and conditioned - a position that built the concept of the dignity of man" (p.
I will read it again.Overlap with The God who is There, but I appreciated reading them back to back so as to get a better picture.I especially appreciated how he showed how Christianity is the only religion or philosophy which allows the individual to start with themselves and work outward. He goes on to explain that even though we can start with our own selves, we are finite and so much look to the Infinite to find meaning. But we can start with ourselves. This is helpful in conversing with individuals.
This is a good beginners book on philosophy. It's easy to read and short, yet still covers a good bit of material. The book was written to emphasize the existentialist thought now prevalent in our culture and how we need to understand this in order to share the absolute truth of God in a relativistic world.
Los capítulos van estrechamente ligados, si te pierdes en el principio no entenderas el por que se hablan de los "saltos" , lo de "arriba y lo de abajo", pero creo realmente que empezare a leer mas Francis A. Schaeffer y a escritores que me enseñen a ejercitar una mente intelectual sementada en las Escrituras. Espero volverlo a leer pronto.
A rehash of Schaeffer's Earlier Works11 August 2013but test everything: hold fast to what is good. Abstain from every form of evil: 1 Thessalonians 5:21-22 Wow, it took me a grand total of four hours to read this book, which must be a record for me, or more probably it has got to do something with it being a short book covering much of the same ground that Schaeffer covered in his book The God Who is There, and also with me having read it before. However, the other thing is that now that I have
This is very much the case as I understand it because the world in which we live is pretty much a shadow of the ultimate reality of God. The idea of this twofold universe, as Schaeffer points out, is outlined in the Rapheal painting known as the 'School of Athens'	In this painting our attention is drawn to the two figures in the centre, one pointing up (Plato) and one pointing down (Aristotle):	What Schaeffer is indicating is that this painting defines the way humanity began to think after the writings of Aquinas.
A short/dense & excellent expose by Schaeffer on the emptiness of modern philosophies and where they all end up logically arriving if you follow them. Shows where you end up when you veer off the historical written revelations we have about God & His character in the Bible--records recorded in real time & space. Cogent reasonings.
A great book of Christian apologetics.
Quite similar ideas to CS Lewis' 'Abolition to Man'. Good read.
It was interesting.
Tracing the way modern man thinks is not new, but the info was different thab others that make similar arguments.
Great.
Heavy
Um livro essencial para entender a Arte e a Filosofia da perspectiva cristã.
I will probably give it more stars later once I process it. This one will make you think.
