https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152435.Steps_to_an_Ecology_of_Mind
Di quali ulteriori informazioni avreste bisogno per essere in grado di predire se il bambino: a) giungerà ad amare o a odiare gli spinaci; b) ad amare o a odiare il gelato; c) ad amare o a odiare la mamma?"Il volume è composto di sei parti molto diverse tra di loro ma che hanno una logica comune e contiene un numero sorprendente di teorie diverse, una più interessante dell’altra, solo in apparenza distinte tra loro.
Possiamo trovare parti che parlano di comunicazione, di apprendimento, di schizofrenia, di alcolismo, di guerra fredda, della cultura degli abitanti di Bali, della struttura del gioco.Provo a dare solo dei piccolissimi esempi di concetti sui processi contenuti nel libro.Un tipico processo di interazione è dato dalla cosiddetta "schismogenesi".
This is the most difficult to grasp page turner Ive ever read. Every other page blew my mind and each essay builds off the previous ones so that by the end you have some idea of what hes talking about. I cant say I understood the biology aspect of his essay on reduplicated limbs in beetles and amphibians but he managed to get his point across. This book has made me really interested in cybernetics and systems theory - I think a second reading is in order to solidify the concepts though.
This is the most difficult to grasp page turner I´ve ever read. Every other page blew my mind and each essay builds off the previous ones so that by the end you have some idea of what he´s talking about. I can´t say I understood the biology aspect of his essay on reduplicated limbs in beetles and amphibians but he managed to get his point across. This book has made me really interested in cybernetics and systems theory - I think a second reading is in order to solidify the concepts though.
the book is very, very thick.Text incorporates the contents such as schizophrenia and double bind.The first chapter is a memo.This helps to think the idea of things. I like it very much.it is the precious book for Psychiatry and Cultural anthropology.
It's one of the most unique books I've ever read; a real mind-opener. Bateson attempts to include and connect diverse fields from Cybernetics, Philosophy and Sociology. The resulting brew is a heady and thought-provoking mix of ideas that are not presented elsewhere in popular science, as far as I know.
Bateson covers a lot of territory in this collection, examining Mind within a considerable variety of disciplines—from anthropology to psychiatry to ecology—refusing to be blinkered by the conventions and presuppositions of any of them..
Many chapters did not interest me and/or were written for a particular audience sharing a method and jargon specific to that audience.
That said, reading the entire collection is perhaps necessary as a way of following the path of Bateson's intellectual explorations.
The man was brilliant.
"Effects of Conscious Purpose versus Nature" should be required reading for every student of business, politics, science, engineering .
every student, period.
E o lectura destul de specifica. A fost relativ complicat pentru mine sa o citesc, probabil pentru ca o citeam in engleza, sau pentru ca debordeaza de notiuni de antropologie. Recunosc ca inca nu am citit-o integral , ci doar bucatile care ma interesau, dar perseverez. Mi-au placut foarte mult metalogurile, de fapt le-am citit de cateva ori, pentru a reusi sa invat algoritmul dat de autor care-mi va fi de ajutor in dialogurile cu copii mei. Cartea isi merita cu siguranta titlul. Fara sabloane. Gandire pura.
See some amazon reviews and discussions on this title: http://www.amazon.com/Steps-Ecology-M...It is also availble in pdf: http://www6.ufrgs.br/horizon/files/te...
Just as ecology is the study of the interrelationship between living things in natural systems in search of an understanding of what allows those systems to persist as healthy functioning wholes, Bateson is operating according to the belief that the problems of society and the functioning of the natural world can only be understood by achieving “an ecology of mind” in which ideas fit together in an integrated system.Some of the papers in this book make for challenging reading.
One need only look at the behaviour of people of opposing political beliefs on the internet to see how this plays out.Part III : Form and Pathology in RelationshipWhat particularly attracted me to reading Bateson was his double bind theory of schizophrenia.
Organised as a collection of relatively short essays, this has a legitimate claim to be the outstanding book of the 20th century for anyone interested in change, systems thinking, ecology, epistemology, organisations, therapy and more.
Be warned - it can be very hard in places, but the effort is worth it.
'Form, Substance and Difference', 'Conscious Purpose versus Nature' and 'The Logical Categories of Learning and Communication' are absolutely central texts for anyone considering how we need to respond to the current world crisis.
Other key papers include 'The cybernetics of "Self": A theory of alchoholism' and 'Social Planning and the Concept of Deutero Learning'.
A very nice book because it not only deals with the ideas of the author on cybernetics and life in general but it also includes numerous applications of those ideas to wildly different subject areas. This gives you a good understanding of his way of thinking, which is truly unique. He has the uncanny ability to come up with explanations and ideas which seem deceptively simple but which are totally not common or easy to come up with. These are the best ideas. I would encourage everybody to read this book. It will change your thinking.
Informed by an elaborate synthesis of systems and communication theory, cybernetic ideas and logical analysis, the essays here play out like an album of repeated refrains, overlapping and allusive, yet decidedly distinct at every point.
And all of this is to say nothing of Bateson's other thematic refrains on the importance of difference, relation, information and mind!Of all the things to be said of Bateson's work then, being of narrow concern certainly isn't one of them.
Shortcut: Play with the metalogues he included in Part I; don't jump it off!Certainly I should not have expected an articulation of a sort of paradoxical thinking in concentrated anthropological idioms from a free thinker as broadly recognized by labels of anthropologist, social scientist, psychologist, linguist, evolutionary ecologist, semiotician and cyberneticist as Gregory Bateson!
I bought this book because of the title.
In the Preface to my Master's thesis in 1969, I described the investigative process I used for the thesis as an "ecology of thought," so the title caught my attention.
The most interesting part of Bateson's book, for me, was the Metalogues.
For years I thought about writing a metalogue, but knew I couldn't get it right.
Bateson's other writings, and also some of his daughter, Catherine's, writing.
Obviously, I have a great fondness for the Batesons.
Read this book for the metalogues alone and you won't be disappointed.
Gregory Bateson connects up seemingly disparate research areas to explore cultural relationships. Although this is an academic read, it has much relevance to our daily lives and covers a wide expanse of topics and threads. Another attractive feature of this book is that it was written decades ago and has informed much philosophy and contemporary cultural theory. Reading this helps explain some of the madness of authors like Deleuze and Guattari.
Thoughtful essays on a broad-ranging set of subjects, ranging from anthropology to psychology to ecology, all of them with an underpinning theme of cybernetics. Not the easiest of reads, and at times very systems-theoretical, but consistently interesting. For fans of people like Douglas Hofstadter, Bateson is probably going to be a must-read, and for those like myself, who have only the faintest understanding of cybernetics as a discipline, it was an interesting introduction.
An intellectual challenge, this autobiographical account of the different chapters (quite literally) of Dr. Gregory Bateson's life illuminates the legacy of one of the greatest systemic thinkers of the 20th century. I also liked the touching foreword by his daughter (also a great family therapist in her own right) Dr. Mary Catherine Bateson.
Playfully brilliant! I came across this book by reading Deleuze (there is a rather long footnote about the double-bind in several of his books) and this shocked me by its use of humor, something very few 'serious' scholars are supposed to do...then again, I enjoyed this book immensely.
This book is an intellectual challenge, I think I may have to read it a couple of times still to get everything I need from it.Bateson is a great thinker and opens up many doors that need to be full explored.
Gregory bateson is a great thinker, but not so known In my country (and in the world, i think...)This book was my first contact with his thought. I read all the metalogues and they had a big influence on me. But I must read the essays too.
You will read this book 5 or 6 times and still get something new out of it. It is very dense and it will uncompress in your head until it is about to explode.
seeForm, Substance and DifferenceA Theory of Play and Fantasy
My first steps were taken with Bateson- a provocative and original thinker. New ideas struggling out from under the weight of old language.
Well written, expansive, very exciting. Highly recommended.
I do remember the general sense of a liberated mind that came with finishing Bateson's book, and on the basis of that alone, I feel confident maxing out the stars in this review.Not that the book gave me a complete solution to the universe.
He moves from biological speciation to dolphin communication, he spends a good deal of time on therapy and cognitive dissonance, and he makes forays into theories of language, scientific method, and Western history.As Bateson covers these topics, we get to see the world as he does: as a place where outcomes and patterns underlie causes and effects, and where objects and qualities are only the shallowest manifestation of a deeper causal structure.
Bateson explains this idea in terms of set theory and Russell's paradox, which I found surprisingly accessible.
I'm not so sure you can consistently heirarchize observation like that, as conceptualizing hierarchy itself seems be contingent on adopting a free standing Batesonian framework - an idea which is at the same time somewhat at odds with his calls for "ecological reasoning".
And that's why I'd recommend this book: scientifically the findings and theories may be somewhat dated and superseded, but as someone who thinks beyond established boundaries, Bateson is uniquely impressive and instructive to us all.
I feel like Brian Sella has read this book.
The part with the deer and the gunshot, and the idea that we all react to a source the same way, as long as the source is exactly the same for everyone and there are no differences at all, really convinced me- Bateson expands this further and further and basically says that nothing matters but it's the importance of nothing mattering that makes life livable.
If we all react to circumstances the exact same way then what is the importance of anything?
The book was dense but beautiful.
I only read portions. The comments at the end of each section offer useful summaries.
Oltre a ciò, la mente è qualcosa che va al di là dell'epidermide: la mente è presente anche nell'oggetto che maneggiamo, poiché il nostro pensiero viene condizionato da ciò che ci circonda e l'ambiente stesso viene condizionato dalla presenza della nostra mente.
Bateson è alla base del pensiero contemporaneo, studi filosofici e scientifici ancora in fase di discussione, che però condizionano fortemente la nostra vita contemporanea: la tecnologia e le neuroscienze si fondano sui suoi studi.
E l'ecologia diventa una materia fondamentale: non si può continuare a considerare l'uomo come qualcosa al di sopra dell'ambiente, capace di controllarlo e gestirlo.
I first heard the name Gregory bateson name when going through Stephen Harrod Buhner book: plant intelligence and the imaginal realm 3 years ago.
An important book with insights in the field of system theory, psychology, anthropology, ecology, cybernetic, etc.
The dialogue with her daughter was really gripping and i would like to read more of it in the future.
Some technical language made the task chalengeful at some point so its better to have technical background in those fields prior to go into it but you can skip those parts and still get much from the rest of it.
This text caught my attention and kept it.
I'm not saying I understood everything Bateson shared - not even close.
Bateson speaks of building an ecology of mind that allows for multiple inputs and that, in fact, allows for multiple versions of the world.
This book came to me from a professor who taught about virtual reality systems and information in process.
The entire thought package came to me at the right time and encouraged me in my own personal exploration of the unity of reality - amidst apparent contradictions.
This text is part of my personal canon.
