https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24100.The_Golden_Notebook
1. What’s the best reason for reading this book?A) It’s a feminist classic, and still speaks to feminists – male and female – today.B) It’s a seminal contemporary novel, and its challenging structure – there’s a traditional novel about a London writer named Anna Wulf, interspersed with four notebooks that individually address Anna’s various interests (growing up in Africa, Communism, trying to write a second book after a very successful first one, daily life, dreams and psychoanalysis) – still feels bold half a century later.C) Lessing won the Nobel Prize for Literature and her crotchety response to journalists when she heard about it remains priceless.D) The book addresses big questions, like: What happens when we become disillusioned with our political ideals?
But it doesn't matter, I still recognise the golden thread leading through all those different, confusing strands of life that are carefully cut off from each other by the writer's abstract intellectual power.My golden notebook would probably look like a rainbow, mixing up various notes that belong to two or three books at the same time, making a big mess of emotions, intellectual and political challenges.
Modern life is rich, complicated, and full of confusing information.But it doesn't really matter that the details of my imaginary notebooks would be different from the major story lines in Lessing's masterpiece.
Given up because although it was well written and the characters developed well early on, I just have no interest at all in the upper middle class who have angst and money instead of housework and jobs.
They pontificated about sex and politics and other people's affairs when the rest of the country were out working and thinking of who was cooking dinner that night and whether or not tuppence on the tax each week was going to make school trips a bit difficult.
Just not what I want to read about right now.Two stars because generally I really like Lessing and I love her writing.
*****WINNER OF THE NOBEL PRIZE FOR LITERATURE*****“I was filled with such a dangerous delicious intoxication that I could have walked straight off the steps into the air, climbing on the strength of my own drunkenness into the stars. And the intoxication, as I knew even then, was the recklessness of infinite possibility.” I would say that Miss Lessing was very fetching when she was younger, but I don’t want to be accused of objectifying her. :-) Anna keeps four notebooks, each representing diffe
And the ‘Anna’ of that time is like an enemy, or like an old friend one has known too well and doesn’t want to see.”The only way to escape our past is to understand it.
”At that time in my life, for reasons I didn’t understand until later, I didn’t let myself be chosen by men who really wanted me.” She isn’t that person now, not that it has made her any happier.
Giving up this power has been a long time coming, but women who are dismissive of men who still hold on too tightly to old traditional roles must understand that it is scary to think of who we are without them.
Go ahead with your need for income, your need for validation, your need for life, your selfish whims, your unconscious prejudices, your broken self that you think is oh so painful but really, you’re hardly that ‘special snowflake’ that you coddle so, that overly analytical stereotypical mess that cries about one thing but is secretly bigoted about everything else it doesn’t have to deal with that can’t even exist like the rest of us normal people, who may not have your talents but can cope just fine with a 9 to 5 job two kids and a spouse yes sirree we do just fine with our drinking our abuse our categorical separations our unconscious hypocrisies our identities set on the straight and narrow that we cannot feel straining and breaking at the seams.
The book intersperses segments of an ostensibly realistic narrative of the lives of Anna and her friend, Molly Jacobs, as well as their children, ex-husbands and lovers—entitled Free Women—with excerpts from Anna's four notebooks, coloured black (of Anna's experience in Southern Rhodesia, before and during World War II, which inspired her own best-selling novel), red (of her experience as a member of the Communist Party), yellow (an ongoing novel that is being written based on the painful ending of Anna's own love affair), and blue (Anna's personal journal where she records her memories, dreams, and emotional life).
“Art is the mirror of our betrayed ideals”  page 385.Still under the effects of the inebriating The Brothers K, I thought the best way to overcome a book hungover was to get drunk again. Reckless and foolish, I know.My head still spinning around and my heart wrenched into a tight ball as I write these lines. “The Golden notebook” is not a kind book.It has challenged my patience and tolerance with its apparent non direction. I have even despised Anna, the narrator of the story, thinking her nai
Also a retrospective insight in which Anna can’t neither recognize herself nor her ingenuous expectations on women’s independence and liberation.”What business has a novelist to cling to the memory of a smile or a look, knowing so well the complexities behind them?” page 115.The red portrays her political doubts with shocking power and blistering honesty, threading radical exploration of communism together with Anna’s growing need for truth-seeking rather than political ideology.I found her growing estrangement with The Party especially poignant when she starts feeling dubious about ends justifying means and the cynicism of some “comrades”.”Yet why do I have a home at all?
I created a new Goodreads shelf, "aborted," specifically for this book (& any future ones that I stop reading).
Apparently it's an important novel & has been very influential, but I found it terribly tedious.
126 pages in, I found myself sinking into a foul mood: the characters are minutely analyzed but still feel remote, & the central conflict at that point (the beginnings of the collapse of hope & a sense of purpose among a group of Communist Party members), which would normally fascinate me, just annoyed me.
And the book is huge & weighs down my commute bag.So away with you, irritating tome!
I would like to think that her mental lapse is why she evicted her homosexual tenant; why she didn't care about the biracial child her white male friend abandoned in stark poverty; why she gave that asshole a chunk of her life.Anna tries to say a lot that is buried beneath a bombardment of ideals, in a stylistically stupefying novel of four notebooks that slowly emerge into one golden notebook of singular artistry.
So even though I wanted social reform badass, Martha, I'd like to think that maybe Anna couldn't be a Martha because of this thing, and
Maybe I'd like to think of life as juxtaposition and not merely contradictions; arguably, there's distinction between the two.
The book follows Anna through her marriage, divorce, early years in Rhodesia, her countless love affairs, and her quest to find the right balance as a woman while being a mother, while recording various life events in a series of colour-coded notebooks.Generally I liked the candidness of this book though I felt some aspects were too graphically described.
I kept thinking all the way through the book about how impactful it must have been when it was first published over 60 years ago especially as it dwelt on the subject matters of feminism and female sexuality.Because I live in a relatively emancipated age, the feminist parts didn't interest me as much as the political and historical content.
Politics were definitely a large part of this book.Did I like Anna?
And I don’t want to be told when I suddenly have a vision (though God knows it’s hard enough to come by) of a life that isn’t full of hatred and fear and envy and competition every minute of the night and the day that this is simply the old dream of the golden age brought up to date…I want to be able to separate in myself what is old and cyclic, the recurring history, the myth, from what is new, what I feel or think that might be new…' I saw the look on her face, and said: 'You are saying that nothing I feel or think is new?'"Anna Wulf is a writer with one published work to her name.
Anyway, we hear A LOT about Anna's many, many, boring and terrible relationships, and the worst of them comes at the end of the book, when she starts having an affair with an American man named Saul Green.
There is the part of the book which the post-modernist tinkerers love and that is the 'splitting' apart of narratives, with our protagonist writing their life story in four colored notebooks, separating the parts of their life story in an attempt to find something original to write again after their own failed novel.
Or it could be the splintering apart of their own lives and attempts to find a meaning or their experiments with men, which all turn into billowing slow-motion train wrecks.It could be very many things.

I was discussing Flaubert the other day with notgettingenough, and remarked on how surprisingly different all his books are.
Salammbô, as I say in my review, is completely different from Madame Bovary.
But apart from Madame Bovary, firmly established as one of the most famous novels of all time, Flaubert's books are not widely read these days.
"People would have preferred me to carry on rewriting The Golden Notebook for ever," she said, "but I wanted to do something else."Well, even though The Golden Notebook is a fine book, and I prefer it to Shikasta and its successors, I think she was absolutely right.
The book has several divisions and each division has a section of a short novella 'Free Women' (by omniscient narrator) and sections of diaries Anna, the protagonist, keeps.Now, as a matter of principle I do not ...
Think of it, a married guy wants to sleep with her the first time they meet feeling no guilt for his wife - what are chances he is going to respect a woman who is prepared to sleep with him first time she met him, herself feeling no guilt towards his wife.(view spoiler)[BTW, this reminds me of a intellectual crisis I am having.
Without any otherwise useful or believable clues to motivation, I'm left to see the slow decline to madness as a direct and inevitable consequence of this woman’s - Everywoman's - attempt to claim her independence, personhood, right to exist as a healthy, happy, whole person.This just makes me sad; sadder still when I think that women are internalizing this message in some way, even taking comfort from it.Another thing that sticks in my craw with Lessing is that her characters are so passive.
Taking action - actually trying to change anything - comes to no good end in Lessing.
I have to give this five huge stars. Even though I had problems with the last few chapters, this was never a chore to get through. I looked forward to reading it each day and enjoyed each of the notebooks, as different as they were. This is a feminist novel in as much as it's about female characters and their sexual relationships, but it's more of a look at mental breakdown, in a post war, communist party era. Masterful writing, as expected from Lessing and highly recommended.
The telling switches between different threads, stories and notebooks and also back and forth in time; I thought this would be confusing.
She has published a bestseller, Frontiers of War, a novel inspired by her life in Southern Rhodesia before and during the Second World War. Now she is living off the book’s royalties, does social work, is a single mother raising her child alone, is active in the English Communist Party and writes.
We observe how fact is shaped into fiction, how one is molded into the other and how a given event may be viewed from different angles, the result being that characters gain substance, become deeper, alive and real.
She was the 11th female who received the prize and the oldest (91 y/o) person ever to have won it.Reading this 634-page dense novel was not a easy thing for me.
Then each part is further divided into one of the 4 "notebooks" that the main protagonist, Anna Wulf, writes or has written: black (about her life in Africa), red (about her life as a communist in Britain), yellow (her scrapbook as a novelist) and blue (her diary).
In the third, the novel can just be seen as populated by insane characters.
Nonetheless, I'll try to do it some justice if I can.I hesitated to read this book for a long time because of the description it always gets: Anna, a writer, keeps four different notebooks, one about her experiences in Africa, one about the Communist Party, one of autobiographical fiction, and one that's a diary.
Some people vote anyway, and this is the right choice, but the justification is complex, and to try to express it here would be to oversimplify--just read the book!One other thing that left a big impression on me was that The Golden Notebook is deeply concerned, even on a structural level, with how women think and perceive, and how that differs from the way men think and perceive.
I just found out Doris Lessing won the Nobel, and now I feel compelled to explain my one star review of her most famous book.My gal pals and I read this over the course of a humid Iowa City summer, as part of a short lived and ill-conceived book club.
We met once a week in a different apartment (though I can only imagine us at Kiki's place), to drink champagne and discuss the novel.
But really, this too is an outdated discussion--if my memory serves me correctly (and it doesn't always), in the book, her lover refuses to believe that the clitoral orgasm is a real orgasm, and only wants to give her the other kind.
but kinda**This novel is similar to other revolutionary books of the past (On the Road is the first one that comes to mind) I think that we have progressed beyond its original shock value.
At one time I can see Lessing's message in this novel as something revolutionary.
At times in the novel I relished in Anna's words, in her emotions and her ideas only to watch this strong intelligent woman make the same "stupid woman" mistakes over and over with the same outcome every time.
Because of this it was painful to see Anna, a witty intelligent woman depend so much on the validation of men.
Mặc dù sách rất dày, khổ to, cầm mỏi hết cả tay nhưng mà mình đọc khá là nhẩn nha, không hề gấp gáp gì hết.Có thể nói Doris Lessing rất tham vọng khi viết nên một cuốn sách đồ sộ, có cấu trúc khá là phức tạp (nhưng lại không hề khó đọc) nói về rất nhiều vấn đề.Đặt lại bối cảnh lịch sử của cuốn sách, khi xã hội thời đó là một mớ hỗn độn, kinh tế lại chưa vực dậy sau chiến tranh thì có thể nói chủ nghĩa xã hội trở thành câu trả lời cho mọi vấn đề, nên các nhân vật trẻ tuổi ai cũng ùn ùn gia nhập Đảng Cộng Sản.
(Currently part of the Reading Envy readalong, with dicussion ongoing here)
I read the Golden Notebook at the height of the journaling movement of the 1970's, Ira Progroff and his intensive journal-writing workshops, consciousness-raising, his whole approach to the examined self, the examined life.
The feminist project was in full bloom, as well.
When this segregation begins to tear apart at the seams, when the personality begins to fray, the Golden Notebook, the fifth, is born--the desire for integration into a unified self.
I adored this book, and look forward to rereading it.
Hard to believe Doris Lessing wrote it in 1962, the Feminist Mystique era.
Truly one of the greatest novels of the modern era -- ranking alongside The French Lieutenant's Woman among the defining works of British post-modernism -- Lessing's The Golden Notebook is as remarkable today as it must have been when it appeared half a century ago.
Rather, this is one of those grand epics that covers the development of post-war England, and the modern west, embracing the political and social forces that bridged the first two decades after 1945.
Needless to say, Lessing (like Fowles) is an investment of time and emotional energy, but a highly rewarding one.
The central character, Anna, an artist with a block, demonstrates through her attempts to keep life compartmentalized (her means of getting at the truth of existence) and a resulting breakdown that madness may be the only path to sanity.
After all, nothing less than a complete breakdown is strong enough to tear down our artificial walls and open a way toward wholeness.
Lessing takes the reader through the brokenness of male/female relationships, the brokenness of politics, the brokenness of wealth (and greed), and the brokenness of the self in order to draw us into this world of wholeness.
Of course, the political idealism isn't the only myth desecrated by the author: page after page she proves to us that there is no such thing as liberated woman, free spirit, true love...Using an ingenious narrative composition, Doris Lessing builds her novel using, apparently, two different voices: an impersonal one (the omniscient narrator) when telling the story of two "Free Women" – Anna and Molly, but also when explaining or describing the notebooks, and Anna's voice (first person narrator) for the four notebooks (black, blue, yellow and red) and also for the fifth, the golden one, for Anna, seeing herself as a "woman of parts", keeps four notebooks that compartmentalize her life in four sections, in a desperate attempt to find a refugee in one of them whenever she feels like failing another.The black notebook is the portrait of successful-Anna: she had published a novel, Frontiers of War, very well received by the public.
I have read eight books by Doris Lessing, mostly in order of publication.
All of that comes through in her writing.The Golden Notebook is a tough read.
I would say that Doris Lessing was about 40 years ahead of her time in writing to expose the female psyche.Due to my upbringing, or possibly my horoscope, who knows, I have been a woman dedicated to "keeping it together" in front of others.
Reading this novel was healing for me because, though I will probably still keep it together in front of most people, I no longer feel ashamed of my emotions or breakdowns.

