https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/858497.Angus_and_the_Cat
Sooo darling! I love the illustrations (1930s) and the sweet story about Angus the dog and his new housemate, the cat! At first, he is not so sure he likes the cat (especially when she sits around bathing herself in HIS favorite sun patch!) but when he can't find her one day, he realizes that perhaps she had made herself right at home in his heart. Great message here and could even be used in families with a "new baby" situation.
I love the ending, which shows them now used to each other and therefore getting along.This is a wonderful read aloud story, as there is room to have a lot of fun with verbal expressiveness.I really enjoyed the vintage illustrations and chuckled at the one with the cat on the roof, although I did wonder about Angus’s apparent poor sense of smell, for a dog that is.4 ½ stars
"But there was SOMETHING outdoors Angus was very curious about but had NEVER learned about, and that was CATS. The leash was TOO short."Angus finds out all about cats when one shows up IN HIS HOUSE. Hey, she's in HIS own special square of sunshine, WASHING HER FACE, though not for long. I love this classic! There's a reference librarian who works with me whose name is Angus, and SOMEONE keeps putting these Angus books on hold for him. But it's NOT ME. :D
When I was little I had a Scotch terrier named Angus and a marmalade tom cat named Mickey Mouser [Shut up! I was four]. They were best friends. Angus would chase Mickey down the hall, and when they reached the far end, they would reverse and Mickey would chase Angus.
I grew up with the Angus books. I always liked them, especially the illustrations.
I love Angus ... and I don't usually care for animal stories. But Angus is so fun and lovable; somehow he was able to surpass my semi-anti-animal-story-ness. Ages: 4 - 8**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Angus reminds me of all the marvelous, mischievous little dogs I was honored to have as members of my family.
For the people who took stars off just because Flack uses capital letters too often, I wanted to write this entire review in caps just to annoy you.
Kids love this sort of thing, onomatopoeia and CAPITAL LETTERS and animals making noises---why do you think comic books are popular with the young?---even though the tone of this book is hushed in comparison to some of the stuff that passes for children's literature nowadays.
Read this book aloud to your children and let them judge whether the capital letters are annoying.
First sentence: Each day as Angus grew older he grew longer but not much higher.
Now as Angus grew older and longer he learned MANY THINGS.Premise/plot: After a few pages sharing what Angus has learned, readers learn that there was one thing Angus was very curious about but had never learned about: CATS.
Will Angus and the new cat get along?!
How much will life change for Angus?!My thoughts: This is a great little story!
And the story is super-sweet!Text: 4 out of 5Illustrations: 5 out of 5Total: 9 out of 10
I almost didn't take this out but I found myself wanting to know if little old Angus would end up getting his ass kicked too.
After finding out that Angus doesn't, in fact, lead the sad little life our poor Ping had to deal with, I read this with my daughter.
I also didn't like how she wrote the book leaving sentencesjust hanging there.
I have to admit though, the whole 'sentence hanging' and capitalization thing reeked of 'let's try something that isn't usually done and then everyone will think I'm cool'.
I very much enjoyed this second installment, as Angus, the ever curious little Scottish Terrier, finds a new friend has invaded his home. My favorite scene shows Angus staring out a window, and in the background is shown a panorama of the neighborhood, and the ducks from the previous book are shown.
Angus is a curious little dog who is getting into trouble whenever his leash doesn't prevent him. My three-year-old son loved Angus and the Ducks, and this one is almost as good. Highly recommended!
Angus is a small Scottish terrier whose curiosity is often thwarted by the leash around his neck.
Then one day he finds a small cat inside the house.
Unrestrained by the leash he tries to get closer but the cat always jumps up and out of reach.
Reminiscent of a young child experiencing the addition of a new baby in the family, Angus is both curious and exasperated by the young cat who takes his food, naps in his favorite spot and seems to be able to go wherever she pleases.
Another classic.
3.5 starsAngus finally gets a housemate: a kitty!
Angus and the Cat by Marjorie Flack is the second of three books about the curious young Scottish Terrier, Angus, inclding the later Angus Lost, and the first Angus and the Ducks.
After Angus barks, the cat jumps all the way up onto the mantel where Angus can't reach her!
THAT CAT keeps jumping up out of reach for THREE whole days.
and SISS-S-S-S-S-S!!!, will be repeated by young readers.Flack's illustrations add to the humor.
For ages 3 to 7, dogs, cats, curiosity, humor, friendship, acceptance, and fans of Angus, and of Marjorie Flack.
Scottish terriers always make me think of my teacher for fifth and sixth grade.
So when I saw Angus and the Cat by Marjorie Flack at the library to read to Harriet, I was also thinking about my teacher's dog.Angus is a Scottish terrier who now has to share his home with a cat.
Harriet and I especially love when the cat ends up on the roof to hide.The illustrations, also done by Marjorie Flack, are bold, simple and effective.
With minimal colors and details they capture the chase of the dog and cat through the yard and house.
We liked the great 1930's illustrations and the gentle story of a dog getting to know and like the new cat who has suddenly appeared in his house.
One thing that irritated me a bit was the apparently random use of all caps.
In some cases, it makes sense for emphasis, but 2, 3, or sometimes even 4 uses of it in one sentence is just silly.
For example, "Until one day WHAT should Angus find INDOORS lying on the SOFA but a strange little CAT!" Still, we read the story 3 times straight through, so it's a winner for us.
Holy moly is Angus and the Cat a cute book. I really love it. It's almost a be-careful-what-you-wish-for story, but it's more of a you-don't-know-what-you-got story. The cat drives Angus crazy, but it also fascinates and entertains him, and when it's not around, he realizes life is boring. Plus, I love the colors in the edition I have. They are bright and bouncy.(My used copy has written in it: Susannah.)
Another funny Angus story. This one was funny than Angus and the Ducks. My kids really liked it. Same style of illustrations as her other books, which I liked.Sweet and silly. A nice story about friendship.Won't search it out, but would check it out if I saw it again.August 2011 - Read this with the younger two boys (7 and 5). They really enjoyed it and asked for me to read it again immediately after finishing.
Angus is a feisty little terrier who usually gets into trouble outside of his home, but in this adventure he is having trouble in his home. Angus is having to share his space with a cat of all things. He is not happy about this, but he eventually finds common ground with his new roommate. This book is good for pre-k students who may still have trouble sharing items in the classroom.
This is truly a delightful story for those who love pets. Angus is always chasing the cat, but one day the cat disappears. How will Angus respond? I love the art work in this book. So expressive. THe little black dog is painted to catch the imagination. I can still almost see him moving across the page. I like this style of art where there is a limited color pallet.
A cute, old-timey picture book about Angus the Scottish terrier who is trying to learn about the new black-and-white cat (who looks exactly like my Zelda) in his house. Would make a fun read-aloud with the emphases in the text. Sweet, not a lot of substance.
Something came over me last night at the library, and I wanted to read a bunch of picture books in which cats & dogs are friends. So I did. I would have loved this when I was a child, because we had both when I was growing up. And because the color palette is bizarre, in a good way.
I liked Angus and the Cat because they had a fun time chasing each other. The cat was trying to run away from Angus because the cat thought Agnus wanted to eat the cat. Angus just wanted to hang out with the cat. Silly cat. Silly Angus.[reviewed by a 6 year old, typed by his mama]
47 months - O is a big Angus fan. She thinks these simple stories are so funny. Love the old style illustrations too.49 month - picked up a copy at the store
This is a favorite book from my childhood. I still find it charming and wonderful.
Simplicity of curiosity and play
I still own this book.
Witty and just a lot of sweet fun. An excellent read for the children.
All the Angus books are real treats,but this is one of my favorites.
