https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/277397.Ellen_Foster
Ellen Foster is a precocious eleven year old girl whose courage and strength and infinite wisdom carry her through things that no child should bear .I wanted to pull Ellen out of those pages and take care of her , get her away from her alcoholic father who for the most part has abandoned her and her miserable grandmother who takes her in for a period of time.
I loved how she cared about her little friend Starletta and knew so much more than the adults around her about equality .If you have had this on your to read list for a while , you should read it .
This novella is both.Ellen has survived a childhood filled with abuse and neglect, yet her spirit never fails.
she's going to find herself a new family.There are so many beautiful moments within this story, made all the more beautiful when contrasted against the difficult ones.
It was interesting to learn why Ellen had given herself the last name of Foster.
😊It's those types of sweet moments that will touch your heart.
I found this story to be more heart-warming than heart-breaking.
Ellen will stay with me for a very long time.
It’s a quick read and simply told, but with a lot of depth, and a powerful opening line that is a real attention grabber.
Ellen Foster is only 11 years old but is an “old soul” and there is a lot to be learned from her character.
The story is told through her voice and the author really gets into her head giving a sense for all she is thinking and feeling.
Naturally there is sadness, but it’s ultimately an uplifting story about finding strength through adversity.
I found it particularly touching how she came about the name of Ellen Foster.
It is hard not to fall in love with 11 year old Ellen Foster as she narrates her struggles thru her young life of abuse and repeated disappointments in search of a safe home and someone to love her. She is so brave and bright and mature for her age, and will make you laugh in spite of it all. Great book!
"When I was little I would think of ways to kill my daddy.
I would figure out this or that way and run it down through my head until it got easy."Ellen Foster grabs you with that first paragraph, and doesn't let go as she narrates her story.
It's not possessions or the color of their skin, but the goodness in their hearts.Even though Ellen's childhood has been terribly difficult, she finally finds herself in a good, safe situation.
It does contain some spoilers since she talks about her childhood.http://www.startribune.com/entertainm...
I was just busy so it was hard for me to finish reading it right away.Ellen is not your conventional type of kid because she thinks and speaks in a manner that is not like her age.
I was not surprised that this book has a fair rating here and that there are several reviews who didn't find this book to their liking.
Ellen's way of speaking is sort of unintelligible that's why I lost interest then.
But who could have thought that this incomprehensible way of Ellen could make the book unique and quite engaging to read.
Ellen Foster is like Scout Finch without the support system of Atticus, Jem, and Calpurnia. She's funny, courageous, level-headed, fair-minded and intelligent. With very little help from anyone, she gets herself out of a very bad situation and into a good one and teaches herself some valuable lessons along the way. I love Ellen Foster.
This is the first-person story of Ellen Foster, a ten- to eleven-year-old Southern girl whose mother commits suicide with the agreement of her abusive father.
After she is sent from the happy foster home of her art teacher to her "mama's mama," a mean old woman, she says, ".
Me to look after her not the other way around like you might expect.
That did not surprise me because I had just about given up on what you expect.
Every word that flows from her lips is true." You can feel the truth of her truth in every word of this wonderful book.Here's the publisher's book page: http://algonquin.com/book/ellen-foster/

I've read lots of reviews of this book that were really positive.
The good thing is that it was a very short and easy book to read so I didn't feel like I wasted a lot of time.
With all the talk about race, it seems strange that I was confused for for a lot of the book about what race the main character even was.
I didn't feel like I really got a grasp on any of the characters.
I'll be interested to go to book club and get an idea of what I'm missing here, because I seem to be in the minority.
The first line of Ellen Foster by Kaye Gibbons reads: "When I was little I would think of ways to kill my daddy." Wow!
Her father is alcoholic and abusive toward Ellen's mother.
Ellen just about raises herself in this dysfunctional household, the "hero" in the alcoholic family.
To add to the misery, grandma dies and Helen has to move on yet again, this time to an aunt that doesn't really want her.
I read that she has been compared to Holden Caulfield but I wouldn't go that far.
Now I want to read Gibbons' other books!
What did I think? That's the question asked when reviewing a book on Goodreads. I freakin' loved it. It is now on my favorite shelf. I loved how she wished for eyes in the back of her head and she thought her head size was "just this side of a defect", how she gave herself a new name and how she "lived to see what would happen next". Ellen Foster her story, her voice....what is there not to love about this 10 year old?
Little gem of a book and ultimately a very clever story about a horribly abused and neglected foster child. Ellen is incredibly resilient and she’s determined to find herself a loving home. The story isn’t depressing at all despite what its content would suggest. Loved this book.
I set aside my usual dislike of child narrators and found an enjoyable voice-driven novella about a fiesty ten-year-old who loses both her parents (good riddance to her father, at least) and finds her own unconventional family after cycling through the homes of some truly horrid relatives.
I don’t quite see why it got so many accolades when it came out in 1987, but then again I’m not a huge fan of either child narrators or Southern fiction.
Read it for the title character’s voice and the sweetly naïve story of how she got her name.Favorite lines: “The day [God] made my daddy he was not thinking straight.
The author makes it believable that Ellen, at eleven, twelve and thirteen, has the clarity of mind and freedom from emotion to recount her traumatizing life with full memory, matter-of-factness and an outstanding world view.
However, I know it is a fabrication, wishful thinking....Abused kids don't think.
Abused kids would not arrive at the level of global understanding that Ellen Foster does by the end of the novel, if she's lucky, until she is at least thirty and more likely fifty.
It's a lovely tale and even though it is a far-fetched representative of the life of an abused kid, I still enjoyed it.
"Ellen Foster" is one of those books I have to re-read every few years.
The understanding of a pre-pubescent and otherwise unlucky girl as she deals with the insanity of adult reality in the flatlandish southern US speaks of a seasoning beyond her years.
Her transparent naivté is obviously predicated on the awareness of the writer herself, but then, the book is using the disingenuousness natural to a child to make observations about the adult world.
This device, hardly new to the world when Kay Gibbons first published "Ellen," nevertheless breaks with an irony that is at once hilarious, infuriating, frustrating, and sad.

The most engaging aspect of this book is its protagonist's voice: clear, unadorned, unsentimental.
Her tale is truly heartbreaking--and therein lies what seems to me the book's primary flaw: the book is too short.
I want to know in greater detail about Ellen's parents and the tragedy that befell her mother.
And the issue is not that I simply don't want to let go of the characters; I truly feel the need to know more about them in order to care about Ellen fully.
I won't forget the origin of Ellen's name, but I fear that because of the brevity of this book, I may forget everything else about her.

I would figure out this or that way and run it down through my head until it got easy." One of the best opening lines for a book I have ever read.
Knocked me off my center of gravity right away, and I was left wondering what kind of evil little girl was I going to be reading about.
With an opener like that you might also think this book was somber and hopeless.
There is plenty of evil in this book, but Ellen isn't the source of it.
Ellen lets the reader in on how she is dealt with by her family and, in turn, how she deals with them.
I picked this gem of a novel up at Borders' going out of business sale on my way home from work last night and devoured it -- cover to cover -- in a couple of hours.
Her descriptions of attempted incest, rampant racism (often her own), and domestic violence are all the more horrific for the matter-of-fact way in which they are detailed.
Despite the sordid and tragic, and often shocking subject matter, I found this a charming read.
I don't know if it was the loveliness of the ending or the two glasses of red wine I drank immediately prior to reading the ending, but there may have been one or two tears shed.
Ellen Foster is a ten year old girl who is rejected by all her family.After the death of her weak- willed and sick mother she is left mostly on her own, her father being a drunk and violent man and her closer relations wash their hands off their responsibility.A sad and heart-warming story, in which a little girl has to face the world and find her own place in it, keeping the illusion alive, in spite of her desolate surroundings.Nothing new though.
Gibbons' style reminds me of Cormac McCarthy.
Gibbons at least could claim a rationale for what in McCarthy I can only see as an affectation.
That doesn't mean I found the novel a pleasure to read, and not just for stylistic reasons (though it's my biggest issue).
Although it's at least short--I'd estimate the novel is only about 50 thousand words.
There is a dark humor threaded throughout and not a bit of self-pity, but the style kept me from ever connecting with the story.
This is often presented to middle or high schoolers to read, but most will not make it without adult guidance.
And I believe it takes an adult mind to appreciate the voice (the dialogue is always without quotation marks) and understand the flashbacks and half-child, half-woman asides.
The book is all about voice and regional (southern) dialect and, to me, has one of the great opening lines: "When I was little, I would think of ways to kill my daddy."For the Kaye Gibbons' titles I have read, I believe she is a "woman's" author.
This Vintage Contemporaries novel, short in length but mighty in worth, is a bittersweet jewel. Ellen Foster, surviving and thriving despite the unfair circumstances she was dealt...repeatedly. Such a winning message: never lose your humor, courage, hope or determination. "While they were at the graveyard I decided that if I quit wasting time I could be happy as anybody else in the future, and right now with one year ending and a new one starting up I thought now was the time to get old Ellen squared away for a fresh start."
Ellen finds a way to survive in each and every situation she unwillingly finds herself in, without any friends to lean on for support except a young black girl named Starletta.Confused by the racial segregation and stereotypes that, while no longer enforced by law, are still enforced by popular belief in the South, Ellen observes a loving family in action while spending time with Starletta's family, her hippie art teacher and husband and later with the woman she calls her "new mama" - a foster parent.Even though it created some frustration for me when normal details, like the names of the story's supporting characters, were left out, the author, Kaye Gibbons, never veers from her narrator's eleven year-old perspective.
I didn't fall in love with the main character, Ellen, because despite her matter-of-fact narration and perspective on her own tormented childhood, she didn't feel like a real person to me.
In the end, Ellen has a revelation about the way she sees black people that felt like a not entirely satisfying conclusion--why is this suddenly the main emphasis, I wondered?
And so, sad as this may be, I wonder what a story like Ellen's has to offer us.
Or, more acurately, he is left in Ellen's care.
This book is all Ellen's.
But soon, it was clear Gibbons has given readers one of the freshest voices of contemporary fiction.
Perusing reviews, I read that this book is used in schools as young as junior high.
I had been so hung up by Ellen's bad lot in life I hadn't been able to appreciate the book's humor.
Just as we adults can laugh at things from our childhoods which at the time were not at all funny, we laugh at some of the things Ellen thinks and does.
Oh my gosh, what a touching wonderful story. As others have said in their reviews I just wanted to scoop up Ellen and have her come live at my house. Her new mama gave her all the love she so craved and needed. I loved every page.
Her alcoholic (and already abusive) father continues his spiral into destruction often leaving Ellen for days at a time alone at their house.
Ellen is headstrong and takes it into her own to provide money for bills and food, and sometime during this time she is sexually assaulted by her father.
Ellen goes to live with her art teacher after another teacher notices bruises on her arm.
Her only friend is her "colored" friend Scarletta, who I feel that Ellen looks down upon (especially in the beginning) due to her skin color.
