https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118349.Snow_White
It’s all fun with language, or what DB in 1966 brought himself to consider fun.But alas for my career as a Barthelme fan, once the fun of this lunatic version of Snow White wears off (she’s a modern 22 year old in a modern American city living with 7 guys who have ordinary boring names, Kevin, Edward, Hubert, and as far as I could make out, they never have communal sex in the shower because the shower just wasn’t big enough, the guys had to take it in turn one by one, nothing pervy about that) the lack of any forward movement (given that plot is something Donald Barthelme would scrape off his shoe muttering) means that Snow White becomes a herkyjerky series of one page riffs and mocking semidemiparodies and finally deliquesces into intellectual elevator music.
This is done through Barthelme's fragmentary rhetoric and discourse, by shifting perspectives from the seven "dwarves" or Snow White herself, as well as the wicked step-mother, "Jane." It was Barthelme's first novel, published seven years after he started having his short stories published in literary magazines and publications such as The New Yorker.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه اکتبر سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: سفید برفی؛ نویسنده: دونالد بارتلمی؛ مترجم: نیما ملک محمدی؛ تهران، مروارید، 1384؛ در 200 ص؛ شابک: 9648838038؛ داستانهای خیال انگیز از نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 مدونالد بارتلمی نویسنده ی آمریکایی، یکی از داستان­نویسان پست ­مدرن معاصر به شمار است.
ایشان رمان سفیدبرفی را در سال 1967 میلادی بنگاشته اند.
Not that I'm totally unwilling to support his decision to do whatever it is he has decided to do here (don't ask me to explain), it's just that the way he's doing it is like fingernails on a chalkboard and I swear to god, mom, I could just kill him right now, kill him dead forever and ever, I could take out a life insurance policy and then pay some biker to and yes, I know, mom, I'm overreacting and in the heat of the moment and I should stop and breathe and reassess, and can I sleep over tonight?
Yes (__) No (__)2) Was this “review” at all informative about the book Snow White by Donald Barthelme?
Yes (__) No (__)4) Having read the above piece of writing, this survey inclusive, are you likely ever to pick up and read Snow White by Donald Barthelme?
Yes (__) No (__)5) Did you read this “review” and/or complete this survey?
Yes (__) No (__)6) If you did not read this “review” and/or survey, skip to number 7;; If “Yes” to question 5, please explain as to why.
_____________________________________________________________ 7) If you did not read this “review” and /or survey, please explain yourself.
i also loved Briar Rose, which was one of robert coover's fairy tales, since we are talking po-mo message 30: by mark  and then there's Snow White.
message 31: by karen/me  i own that, but i never read it.
message 32: by mark  not all, but a lot of Capital-E Erotic!
message 33: by karen/me  oh, that sounds better than what i thought it was.
message 38: by mark  depending on the edition & cover art, it may serve as a delightfully sensuous drink coaster!
message 40: by mark  yep, it is super seventies.
message 42: by mark
Amazon has this seemingly simple explanation for the book: "An inventive, satiric modern retelling of the classic fairy tale provides an incisive and biting commentary on the absurdities and complexities of modern life." I agree, sort of.
You see, SNOW WHITE is most certainly a postmodern novel.
What I can say is: SNOW WHITE is a hilarious romp, sexually charged, disjointed, stilted work of perfection.
Besides being a retelling of a classic tale, this novel is a great commentary on the current status of American culture.
If you are a fan of Ann Sexton's work with fairy tales, SNOW WHITE will not disappoint.
Given my love of Baxter, his well written homage to Barthelme sent me directly to the bookstore to pick-up a couple of his books.Ben Marcus (especially "The Age of Wire and String"), Mark Leyner (anything by him, but most definitely "The Tetherballs of Bouganville") and David Eggers (especially his short fiction) are all like branches off of the tree of Barthelme.
I haven't read enormous amounts in this field, but having now read fawning pieces about Barthelme by Baxter, Eggers and David Gates, I'm convinced that his canon of work should be required reading for anyone interested in experimental fiction.
"E' una cosa nuova che ho finito oggi, ancora un po' fresca temo".
Paul appoggiò la cosa nuova contro la parete per un momento.
"Interessante", dicemmo noi, "E' povera", disse Biancaneve.
"Si", disse Paul, "una delle mie cose più povere".
"Certo, non così povera come quella di ieri, ma comunque più povera di altre", disse Biancaneve.
"Stanno diventando sempre più povere", disse Biancaneve.
"Sempre più povere", disse Paul con soddisfazione, "scendendo a inesplorati abissi di povertà ove mai è giunta intelligenza umana".
"Carta da parati", disse Paul.[E' una cosa nuova che ho finito oggi].
Intellectual masturbation at its finest, big dirty postmodern splurges of absolutely no value altogether.
While nowhere near the level of The Dead Father or The King (yet considerably more to my taste than Paradise), this book is full of amazing fragments that add up to a puzzling book. The parts are greater than the whole. Go into thinking of it as loosely related bits of poetry and flash fiction and you'll probably enjoy it more.
The blurb on the back mentions "the crisis in literature." This read in a lot of ways like a period piece in form and content.
Hard to follow, this reader found it.
Amusing, too, if never receving from me more than a respectful, almost fake LOL (like I wanted to like it more than I did and therefore respected it with polite laughter in recognition of my love for some of his stories?).
Funniest part for me was questions for the reader at the end of part I (metafiction is FUNNY!).
Something that's cool, though, is that stylistially, everything's so particularly Barthelme, it's like its own island -- a really virulent formal virus in quarantine.
Much of this novel went straight over my head - my problem, not the book's - but Barthelme's Snow White is such a reflection of the era of its creation that, as time goes by, the wordplay and allusions have become increasingly obscure.
I would gladly read an annotated edition.From what I could absorb, this book transplants Snow White and her associated characters into a post-Freudian, post-Jungian world -- or, tighter than that, into a mishmash of early 1960s intellectualism and consumer pop culture.
Thus, the emotional impact of the book stems from the direct experience of reading rather than from absorbing the plot or content of the book.
Altri pavoni attraversarono la corte nel loro splendido piumaggio.
Bill era preoccupato per la parte bianca, ma gli dicemmo di non preoccuparsi.
"La gente lo fa tutti i giorni", disse Edward.
La gigantesca meringa si gonfiò fino al soffitto.
Ci ritrovammo tutti dentro la meringa.
"Non si può cucinare in base a ciò che dice quella donna.
Sbaglia sempre le proporzioni, e comunque non credo che nella meringa si debba mettere la cannabis".
"E' che non mi piace il vostro mondo", disse Biancaneve.
"Un mondo in cui succedono fatti simili".
Le consegnammo i tuorli, ma non era soddisfatta.
Snow White by Donald BarthelmeI chose this book because I like when authors do different things and twist stories and make their own interpretations that involve anything and everything with Disney.It was hard to read at first.
It gave me a good image to work with while reading the story.As quoted from the short synopsis on Goodreads, this book is considered “An inventive, satiric modern retelling of the classic fairy tale that provides an incisive and biting commentary on the absurdities and complexities of modern life.” I agree with this because not only did I find things relevant to society, but also the humor really stood out.Donald created a new realm of this Disney fairy tale by making it more adult like.

Imagine my disappointment when I found out that other copies of this book had a picture Snow White's arse and my copy was sadly arse-less. After getting over my G-rated cover and getting past my anti-metafiction stigma Snow Whites little tale made me giggle with delight. "Some things aren't poignant at all and that pornographic pastry is one of them."And really seven men with one woman? There is no home shower big enough or woman for that matter.
Бартелмі - геній, а цей роман тому гарний доказ. і доведення того, що справжній постмодернізм - це не сюжети, а гра і мова (привіт Віттґенштайн!). чудова анкетка в тексті й оце "оповідне ми".
Donald Barthelme, one of the leading recent voices in postmodernism and experimental fiction, regularly took it upon himself to appropriate classic materials and use them to evaluate modern life. In his first novel, Snow White, Barthelme sets a standard for postmodern stories that re-imagines fairy tales, the familiar trappings of life, and even storytelling itself. He does nothing “by the book,” preferring instead to push the bounds of fiction and color outside the lines. He creates a new visi
In his first novel, Snow White, Barthelme sets a standard for postmodern stories that re-imagines fairy tales, the familiar trappings of life, and even storytelling itself.
In Snow White the reader is limited to knowing only what he or she might know if present during the events of the story, which feels restrictive to a reader used to modern style.
Snow White uses fairy tale characters and sounds like it was written for children, but it mocks the most poignant elements of modern society.
Start with some of the short stories.Got lost a couple of times.
The dwarves run a baby food factory and know it is only a matter of time before Snow White will abandon them.
There are moments of real sadness in this book, mostly focusing on the expectations, narratives and fables that can distract or suffocate a person while life goes by unnoticed and, in a certain sense, unlived.
It would seem this may be Mr. Barthelme himself voicing the anxiety of the writer writing at a time when literature perhaps is no longer (if it ever really was) really much of anything other than a distraction.
There are many passages that purport a certain existential depth, yet read as randomly dropped in, much like the names of who I can assume are important (or made-up) scholars (Brack, Wurst,Klipschorn, Thomas, Gimbal, Stendhal, Sabatini) in some field (I didn't care to look them up either).
We do what we do without thinking" (93).-"Each of us is like a tiny single hair, hurled into the world among billions and billions of other hairs, of various colors and lengths.
What does it look like, this something better?" (185)Tripe!
Perhaps it IS exactly that; however, I'll admit to not being bright enough to clearly make that distinction.-After some thought, I've come to the opinion that the value of this work is that of an encouragement about what is possible when a writer eschews established conventions and ignores commonly held 'rules' about the craft of writing.
On the positive side, I encourage every writer to read this book for the intellectual exercise of perhaps examining his/her own self-imposed conventions and fine-tuning his/her style--whether that be to fully embrace Barthelme's methods in this book ( let's hope not ) or merely to grant themselves permission to loosen any grip of Rigidity that may hinder that style.
When I first read this book, in my early 20s, I identified with Snow White, because I felt like the men I was meeting were metaphorically dwarves, lacking in dimension.
He was older than me and had been living and writing for longer, so he had the voice first.
It was just a coincidence that it was like mine.This is a book that you can read at random, as it's not very linear at all.
It inspires the reader to see the world through new eyes.I did contrive to meet Donald Barthelme (through my drawings), and to become an acquaintance.
Touch-point for many post-modernist tendancies run to extremes in a kind of flippant, amusing fake erotica (the totally absurd Bantam mass market paperback cover is a kind of a deception, although, granted, it's also literally a scene in the story.
But as a series of clever episodes, self-reflexive experiments, commentary on roles and archetypes in stories and in modern life, intertitle polemics, generally deft prose juggling -- taken as a set of independent parts you can't really go wrong.
And Barthelme remains best known for short stories, so reading it with less demand for cohesion doesn't seem a bad approach.
Sottovalutato, rivalutato, una lettura tormentata. La crosta del libro è estremamente semplice, il nonsense dominante non mostra spessore semantico o intertestualità spinta. Poi l'occhio ripercorre le righe per capire, parafrasando il testo, che non c'è proprio niente tra le righe, ma solo le righe stesse a dire tutto. Il pattume compresso in quell'oggetto di carta e inchiostro è quello che non sappiamo più dove mettere qui nel mondo in 3 dimensioni, e questo inquieto pensiero al contrario delle aspettative mi rassicura sulla significatività del libro, e riesco in maniera sollevata a riporlo nel suo nuvo posticino, lì sullo scaffale.
really wanted to like this book - alternate fairy tale!
- but yeah, it wasn't so much a book with a discernible plot as it was a collection of po-mo sentences combined with lots of large, bold, all-caps phrases.
could not keep any of the characters straight, as they were all completely 1D.
i'll give barthelme a few hand-claps for witty snippets here and there and for making me think of Catch-22 and Tom Robbins.
i will also give him a few demerits for "sucking the mop" and having a character named "hogo." so i think we're even.
Donald Barthelme is pretty consistently structurally playful and silly, but also consistently trying to write humanity, and does so surprisingly well without dropping the smile.I prefer The Dead Father to this one -- while both share his sexual frankness, absurdity, fracture and (sometimes anyway) opacity of language, Dead Father moved more.
Which is to say, I'm turning into an old man, who demands weight even of his Barhtelme.Having said all that, I still give it 4 stars; a lesser work by a great writer still outshines the best works by poorer writers, and page by page and sentence by sentence this was delight enough for me.
WHAT THE HELL?? I have no idea where this story was going, or where it started, or how it pertains to the fairy tale of Snow White (other than she is a "character" in the story) -- there are "Characters" who randomly appear and disappear just as quickly -- there is no development of the characters we are supposed (maybe) to know about. I think this was written by an author who was on drugs, and I find it fairly reminiscent of A Scanner Darkly by Phillip K Dick -- which I didn't like either.
Barthelme's post-modern "retelling" of Snow White, in which Snow White lives with 7 men who clean buildings for a living and tend vats of chinese food, was pretty good. Somehow it manages to be quite dated in that way that Sixties experimental fiction can be, and still feel quite modern. I liked the bit when Snow White hangs her hair from the window and two passing old men see it and one of them says "Seems like some hair comin' outa that window there."
I can best describe Barthelme's style as "slideshow fiction." Narrative *click* character sketch *click* moment of silence *click* and so forth. Repeated images, half-sketched drawings, empty gazes, personal histories, barely strung together. Existentialist attitude merges with a very contemporary-American sense of detachment and irony... impressive considering the book is 40 years old. Snow White does awfully well as a bored young woman surrounded by boring young men.
Bu tür kitapların anlamının ve bağlamının büyük bölümünün çeviride kaybolması açınılmazdır. Kitabın yazıldığı ülkenin o dönemki kültürel iklimine de hakim değilseniz kayıplar katmerlenir. Okudum, gördüm, şu an Türkiye'de herhangi bir insanın okumasına değer olan bir eser durumunda değil. Postmodern roman adına pek çok başka nitelikli örnek sayılabilir ama Pamuk Prenses'i şehre taşıyan roman aranıyorsa bunun yerine Fables çizgi roman serisini tavsiye ederim.
