https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3424.The_Grass_Crown
The Grass Crown (Masters of Rome #2), Colleen McCulloughThe Grass Crown is the second historical novel in Colleen McCullough's Masters of Rome series, published in 1991. The novel opens shortly after the action of The First Man in Rome. Gaius Marius and Lucius Cornelius Sulla eat dinner together with their wives, and discuss the threat presented by Mithridates VI of Pontus and Tigranes II of Armenia.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوم سپتامبر سال 2009 میلادیا. شربیانی
Sulla was his lusciously sociopathic self, Marius' descent into homicidal insanity was sad and terrifying at the same time, Mithradates of Pontus was an absurd figure as only megalomaniacal Eastern potentates can be, young Julius Caesar was an annoying precocious prat (I've never really cottoned to him), and Young Pompey was - to put it simply - adorbz.He has always gotten my non-Sullan cottoning-to.(Illustration: McCullough)There were a lot of things that had fallen down the memory hole over the past 10+ years since I last read it, and so the entire book didn't feel like I was retreading old ground.
Edit 9/12/14: I'm kind of doing a quick run through of this again before tackling Fortune's Favorites to refresh myself on the billion people, places and events and I have to admit I was probably being a bad-moody, picky little bitch when I gave this four stars originally.
Also, McCullough clearly doesn't have much of an interest in Roman military matters; the marches and battles of the constant warring are certainly referenced and depicted, but too often it's in the form of secondhand relation or a quick glossing over.
While he does get quite a bit of page-time, it’s here that the character of Sulla really starts to shine and come into his own in terms of political power.
We also get a lot of important secondary characters come to the forefront of the novel, particularly as a good chunk of it deals with the so-called ‘Social War’ – a civil war between Rome and Italian allies who were sick of hiding in Rome’s shadow and wanted the rights to Roman citizenship.
Like ‘The First Man in Rome’ before it, ‘The Grass Crown’ is a significantly long novel – both being over 1,100 pages.
Ok, I can admit it - I'm an ancient Rome junkie, and Colleen McCullough is my dealer.
Nobody - not even the venerable Robert Graves, or Marguerite Yourcenar, can write a crackling, entertaining AND factually nails-on story of Ancient Roman politics, history and characters like McCullough.
Thanks to her books I can describe the difference between a praetor and a consul, and understand that great Roman leaders didn't just start with Julius Caesar.
This book mostly covers the period of the dictator Sulla's rise to fame, the twilight of the great Gaius Marius, and the early childhood and adolescence of both Julius Caesar and Pompey Magnus.
While he has built his reputation by earning the love of the people, Marius world is the world of the senatorial class, and they fear him and the mob that loves him.Sulla, who despises the masses that he lived among for so long, is driven to distraction by their preoccupation with Marius.
The sad thing is that Sulla, at least in McCullough's imagination, is a creature of his own making; when he was poor and able to love Metrobius openly no one suspected he was of noble blood; when he murdered his patrons and used their wealth to claim his birthright, the senatorial class hardly believed he was anything but a new man.Then you have Marius, a man who degenerates politically, physically, and spiritually over the course of the novel.
I am, quite frankly, in awe of the amount of research and detail that went into this book.
Quite frankly, after studying Greek and Roman history for a semester I vowed I'd never spent a single minute on it again (less due to the subject itself and more thanks to inept and unfriendly teachers), but I devoured and loved every single word in this book.
I do wish McCullough had spent more time discussing what a monumental turn in history Sulla's decision to lead his army on Rome was - she did, of course, but the last 300 pages of the book felt rushed to me.
Ms. McCullough does an outstanding job of bringing Republic Rome to life.
Excellent character development, fast-moving, hooking plot...
and all based on true events and historic reasearch.This second book in the series covers Lucius Cornelius Sulla's rise to being First Man, and then things go nuts!!!
Blood, blood and more blood.McCullough creates vivid, believable and lovable characters, and avoids getting bogged down in historical detail "showing off", but works in an appropriate level of detail to enrich the story without losing the strong narrative line.Unfortunately, the parallels with modern American politics are scary and sad.
repeat it).Top notch Historical Fiction.
A mixed bag. Flashes of genius interspersed with long stretches of tedium and density. Rise of Sulla and Fall of Gaius Marius. List of characters woefully incomplete. Line drawings good but maps and diagrams poor. I do not understand reasoning for all the very positive reviews. 2.5/5.
I barely read the books and I couldn't remember the dates or names of anything other than the obvious characters and events.
But I could remember fun details and things that were amusing to me.
Killing someone by pouring molten gold down their throat is one of those things.
But, luckily, there were more characters to care about, so I wasn't bored for their storylines.
It was upsetting in the middle, when all the good people started to die but my Sulla remained so I soldiered on.
The easiest way to become an expert in the end of the roman republic, and later, the end of Ceasar, is to read this series.Historical novels always walks a line of historical correctness and entertainment, i thought this series managed to provide both, which is an impressive feat considering the extensive amount of information available for this time-period.This series follows the most important romans and their families for two generations.The rise to power of the succesful battlecommander Gaius Marius, the following period under Sulla the dictator, the triumvirat between Pompeius Magnus, crassus and Ceasar, Ceasars campaigns in france and germany, his return to rome, and his murder.
Each book ends with an afterword where McCullough explains what she have made up, what is speculation, and what we know.There are even a lot of authentic drawings based on bustes of the real people in the story.This is my favorite, non-fantasy, series.
I love this series! McCullough is such a good writer...her pacing, characterization, and style are all fantastic. I also enjoy reading about a period of ancient Rome that I am not as familiar with. I did enjoy "The First Man in Rome" slightly more than this one; I think because there was more of a "rise to glory" theme in the first book as opposed to this one's "fall from grace." Still so fantastic though.

Le promesse del primo libro vengono tutte mantenute in questo seguito, la cui prima parte - devo ammetterlo - scorre molto più velocemente della seconda non perché quest'ultima sia meno interessante ma piuttosto per la grande maggioranza di dettagli contenuti in ogni riga: saltarne una significherebbe perdere qualche informazione preziosa e bisogna stare attenti ad ogni riga.
Opera notevole per una scrittrice e una sfida decisamente ardua per un lettore la cui passione non viene mai meno anche perché stuzzicata da ogni parola.
Non vedo l'ora di metter mano al prossimo che è parecchio più sottile (almeno di duecento/trecento pagine ad occhio) e penso proprio che tutta l'estate sarà dominata da Cesare e Silla.
This is the second book in Colleen McCullough's Masters of Rome series, following The First Man in Rome.
It covers the period from 99 -86 B.C. Since I know very little about the history of ancient Rome I learned a great deal from this detailed account which is largely a story of political intrigue, civil war and upheaval.
As someone who reads pretty quickly this was a rare book that took me a full month to read, so it is not an easy undertaking to get through it, but it is definitely worth the time and energy for anyone who is interested in history.
I look forward to reading the entire series.
I was so into this book I could physically experience the events to smelling tasting and the heartbreak that the characters experienced, it was so realistic to me that I was dreading the end of the book.
I came to Identify with one of the main characters Gaius Marius, I was wishing that I could skip over the ending because I didn't want here about his last days and his death, which is was familiar with through reading history.
I would love to have the luxury to read this series from book I ( First man of Rome) to the last book, straight through.
I recommend this book to all who love history.
In this, the second of the Masters of Rome series, we learn more about the remarkable Sulla.
His ability to casually murder those who will thereby aid his rise to power, has already been established in the first book.
His pursuit of the Grass Crown - recognition by a Legion of the brilliance of its commander - provides the theme for this tale of a ruthless but strangely attractive man.
Again it is McCullough's understanding of Rome of this time and the details she provides that add to rather than detract from the story, that contribute to making this a first rate read.
Absolutely Brilliant. The scheming, the intrigue, the hatred and the killing, all wrapped up in togas of respectability as though the Senate is some private club. Colleen McCollough continues the story from where she left off in "First Man in Rome" but it isn't necessary to have read that to enjoy this fascinating book. The controlled animosity between Marius and Sulla fills the pages, whilst Rome endures crisis on its own lands.Often I felt I was there, an eavesdropper, sometimes a participant, walking the streets, sat in the Senate, listing in during a dinner...Brilliant.
It took me the first 100+ pages to get into this one, which surprised me after the first but equated to my first try at these novels at the time of publication. After that shaky beginning I was hooked, thoroughly enjoying watching the development of known future characters of this historical epic. You really couldn't make it up (though, of course, McCullough did exactly that; it is fiction!) I haven't yet received the next installment to my chagrin.
Whoa!!! OK, I have always wanted to read this book until the end - I have tried earlier but I guess I was not brave enough. But now... Fantastic point of view for the time in history where Great Man delivered chess games of high class, where "dignitas" and "auctoritas" were the thing that truly great personalities were thriving for... I am amazed and can not wait to read the Fortune's Favorites.Great recommendations ;)
The follow up to The First Man in Rome, and the rivalry begins between Gaius Marius and Lucius Cornelius Sulla. And in the city of Rome, a little boy is starting to grow up. Wonderful read, but you should read TFMiR first, to get the basics down. One of my favourite novels, and a desert island keeper. For the complete review, please go here:http://www.epinions.com/content_31498...
The second in the series about the life and death of the Roman Republic. I have undertaken to read the complete series but wonder if I have the commitment to do this; I am unconvinced by the author's style and the detail she includes. I am considering substituting a non-fiction account of the events covered in the rest of the Masters of Rome series and devoting the time saved to more contemporary fiction.
A comprehensive epic, both immersive and very dense. Had to read this in little chunks with intermittent breaks, because it took energy to read. For historical accuracy and details, this series cannot be beat. For history fans who want a very in-depth, slow paced masterpiece.
McCullough does a great job of presenting the later stage of the Roman Republic.
Obviously the dialogue is fiction and probably many of the relationships and interactions between the historical protagonists but who cares.
The imagined relationships and actions that McCullokugh describes makes the actual history entertaining.
While I read the book I had my ipad on the wikipedia and I kept referring to the history as written by the authors on wikipedia.
All the main characters are referenced on Wikipedia even though McCullough takes license with her characters.
I would recommend "The Grass Crown" for anyone curious about Roman history.
Olhando para o rei – e sabendo que, desde a puberdade, Nicomedes devia ter apresentado ao mundo aquela personagem esganiçada e efeminada – Júlia tinha dificuldade em acreditar, por exemplo, que aquele homem tinha liquidado o próprio pai com mãos eficientes; ou que conseguisse preservar a lealdade e o afecto dos seus súbditos.”“- Vou ter um filho, Marco Pórcio[…]- É meu ou do teu marido?[…]- Não sei […] Espero que seja teu[…]- Espero que não”“Cepião continuou a bater na mulher.
It also has the story of a man seeking new purpose (Marius in exile), the Republic creating and ignoring new threats, political idealists and cynics manipulating the system, greedy senators seizing power, family squabbles, unruly infants, foreign kings, military campaigns throughout Italy and Asia, madness, pointless destruction, revenge, and a host of temporary issues that need dealing with.It may sound from this like the book’s a total mess, but I actually enjoyed it more than the first one.
It is true I have a good knowledge of Roman history, and that there are some slower parts (after all, it is a giant of a book!), but I think every reader could enjoy this novel and shouldn't be afraid of its lenght.The strenght of McCullough's novel is also evident in the two main characters.
My favourite of the two is definitely Sulla: I've always liked him as a historical figure (obviously, I like morally ambiguous men...), but McCullough really made me fall in love with him as a character.
(hide spoiler)]I can't wait to continue with the series and see how McCullough will portray Julius Caesar, who is definitely my favourite historical figure of all time.
That first man was unmistakenly Gaius Marius, a flawed but still admirable figure who married Julia, an aunt of Julius Caesar, making him a brother-in-law to Lucius Cornelius Sulla.
The young Julius Ceasar is also appealing here, just coming of age, he's around 14 years old at the end of the book, and it was fascinating to see the makings of the man in the boy of this book--the way his life in his mother's cosmopolitan insula in a rough neighborhood may have shaped him.I've seen reviewers who complain the books in the series, including this one, are ponderous, even tedious.
What makes this book and the series special to me is how vividly it recreates the early Roman republic.
Final update 11/6/12: It only took a year and two months but I FINALLY finished this behemoth.
I had a hard time keeping a lot of the secondary characters straight in my head, especially after I took my six-month break in reading - I ended up forgetting who was who!
It's not easy but it's definitely worth the effort.Update 9/14/12: Desperately need to immerse myself in ancient Rome again, so I'm going back to this one and hoping that I can remember the threads of the story.
This book is essential to understanding the reasons and the climate in Rome which led to the fall of the Republic and the rise of Caesar and the Roman Empire.It is here we are more intimately introduced to the young Caesar, to his childhood, his relationship to Marius, his undeniable intelligence, charm, and his love of war, which all combined to make a successful general.
Meanwhile, Marius' influence and the Italian War all set the stage for the discontent in the Senate and the fall of the Republic.
It submerges the reader into the world of Rome by revealing the egotistical reasons for power and war.
