https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8112011-the-runaway-skyscraper
You can credit it as being an early work, a Science Fiction forerunner, but Jules Verne and H.
G. Wells were even earlier pioneers in the genre, and took far more pains to immerse the reader in the story, and as a result produced much better works.
Another restriction is that it probably had to fit within the word limit set by Argosy Magazine, where it was originally printed.
Still, it reads like the early draft of an idea, and not like a finished work.
I try not to judge yesterday's works by today's standards, but even by earlier standards it seems to me that my 3-star rating is probably generous.
Indeed the story starts with a skyscraper in Manhattan going back in time.
What is original is that: (1) 2,000 people are transported back in time instead of the usual individual or limited-size crew.
This provides an interesting group dynamics, which brings us to (2): time travel remains in the background while the story focuses on survival issues, which is an interesting twist.
The New York City that they remembered had been replaced by a queer place surrounded by imposing monuments.
Arthur, looking again at the nearby monuments, understood that they had been erected around their runaway skyscraper on purpose, in view of its temporal return.
Product Description Murray Leinster (1896-1975) was the pseudonym of William Fitzgerald Jenkins, an award-winning American writer of science fiction and alternate history. He wrote and published over 1,500 short stories and articles, 14 movies and hundreds of radio scripts and television plays. Leinster began his career as a free-lance writer before World War I; he was two months short of his 20th birthday when his first story, The Foreigner, appeared in the May 1916 issue of H. L. Mencken's li
Murray Leinster (1896-1975) was the pseudonym of William Fitzgerald Jenkins, an award-winning American writer of science fiction and alternate history.
Leinster began his career as a free-lance writer before World War I; he was two months short of his 20th birthday when his first story, The Foreigner, appeared in the May 1916 issue of H.
In the 1930s, he published several science fiction stories and serials in Amazing and Astounding Stories and continued to appear frequently in other genre pulps.
Sidewise in Time was published in the June 1934 issue of Astounding.
This was probably the first time that the concept of alternate worlds appeared in modern science fiction.
Read on LibriVox (free audio books in the public domain).
A pretty good early time travel storyThis sci-fi time travel story is reprinted from the February 22, 1919 issue of "Argosy" magazine.
You will not find good explanations for time travel or why the building's electricity, telephone exchange and elevators continued to function.
The bank on the ground floor had a number of revolver armed guards and a stored arsenal of a dozen riot guns and a half-dozen high power rifles.
The building's occupants produced another 40 or 50 revolvers, one shotgun, and some fishing equipment.
Murray Leinster went on to become a major sci-fi author
Highly entertaining story of a New York skyscraper being drawn into the past by a change in its fourth dimension. The building arrives in a time before Columbus's discovery of America. An enterprising engineer, a bank manager, and a office assistant save the people and the building. The science is a bit shaky, but the story is typical of Murray Leinster and his tongue-in-cheek humor. I listened to the Librivox version, read by Gregg Margarite, is decently done. Mr. Margarite's style may be a bit disconcerting because his delivery can resemble that of William Shatner doing Caption Kirk.
For a tale that helped jump start the genre of science fiction in 1919, this is a surprisingly fun story. Sure, the rationale for the skyscraper going "runaway" is a bit hokey, but they didn't have quantum mechanics back then, just H.G. Wells. It has that sensibility of the era it was written, so be forewarned, but give it a read. Every sci-fi fan should experience the beginnings, so they can hopefully more appreciate the good stuff they have now.
Though the premise of a whole skyscraper falling back through time isn't terribly realistic, Leinster handles the story well and makes it work. I have enjoyed some of his stories more but generally I found him a dependable author to tell a good SF tale.
The science is pretty broken, but the fiction is OK.
Free from Gutenberg.org
A skyscraper suddenly 'travelling' back in time, this seems an interesting state of affairs...
Pretty good for a story from 1919. He's done a slick job of updating H.G. Wells with a twist. Considering this must have been one of his earliest efforts its surprising it still reads so well.
