https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15449.Vale_of_the_Vole
That is, there is no palpable immediacy to the quest, and thus no imminent peril, and the book suffers as a result of nearly negligable suspense.The story involves so many treks across Xanth that it seems it's no longer dangerous to travel here and there in Xanth - there's little reflection on the part of the characters as to the risk involved, and in fact the treks are mostly pointless, and thus unwise if safety might be a concern.
I never was convinced in the urgency of his quest, nor of its importance, and always considered that traveling to the Magician was a questionable strategy.The vole's quest is more convincing, but I question if the other characters would really be so eager to help.
This was my first book that I've read of the Xanth series.
I had heard of Xanth, found a used copy at a real bargain, so I went for it.
I was expecting something more along the lines of the Apprentice Adept series (which I thoroughly enjoyed), but I was instead assaulted by simple puns, inane dialogue, and amazingly-over-accepting-of-each-other strangers.
I could probably go on some more about the negatives I found in this book, but I still had to give it two stars for the mere fact that it kept my attention, and even made me chuckle a few times.
This is probably the last Xanth novel that I read30 December 2011 I guess that I am getting to the point where my memory of the Xanth novels are beginning to fade. This was written in 1987 and I suspect that I read it a couple of years later, possibly in the early 90s (though the exact date I am unable to remember). I remember this because it was when my friend first introduced me to the series, and I pretty much read everything thing that he had written up to that point, and a couple more. I ha
This was written in 1987 and I suspect that I read it a couple of years later, possibly in the early 90s (though the exact date I am unable to remember).
I remember this because it was when my friend first introduced me to the series, and I pretty much read everything thing that he had written up to that point, and a couple more.
Harry Potter hit the world by storm, where as these books have been sitting in the background and I suspect the popularity has probably diminished somewhat.
This title was my first encounter with Anthony's Xanth world, though I knew my sister had another one already in her bookshelf ("The Color of Her Panties"), but at that time I was just not interested, because I thought it was just a strange book.
I thought, why anyone wants to know about someone's panties colour?
only the color?
So I let the book a pass.It was not until I read "Vale of The Vole" that I realize how interesting "The Color of Her Panties" was.
On third thought, maybe not.
Whichever, I still really liked the book.
Esk, son of Smash, wants to get rid of a demoness, but Magician Humfrey can't be consulted because he is missing.
So Esk decides to go find him.
He may have gained allies and possibly a new love, but what if Esk can't find Humfrey?Chasing down the motivation behind annoying demons seemed like a bit of an empty quest, but as has been the case for a while in this series, the characters generally just need a plot coupon to go on a quest and flirt with ladies.
SUMMARY:When Esk, a young ogre-nymph-human, began his pilgrimage to the Good Magician Humfrey to rid himself of a seductive demoness, little did he know it would become a mission of mercy. A running river paradise and its harmless inhabitants were perishing in the wrathful wake of a greedy demon horde. Now it is up to Esk and his companions--a beautiful winged centaur named Chex and a brave burrower Called Volney--to search Xanth's treacherous reaches, gathering together a mind-boggling company of creatures to defend the precious Vale of the Vole.
This is the first book by Piers Anthony that I have ever read and I absolutely adored it.Fast paced and laugh out loud funny combined with mythical creatures on a quest equal a good time had by me.Can't wait to search out more books in this series and dive back into the world of Xanth.
From the very beginning of this book I felt like I was reading a novel that could be featured on a Saturday morning cartoon run much like the ones I saw as a child.
In the last chapter Esk and Metria find solutions to their problems however, the character of the story feels like it isn't quite sure what type of a book it should be.
Either be a harem type book geared towards the adult side and give Metria the ability to develop into a 100 year old seductress as she is with appropriate language.
Book 5: Piers Anthony's Xanth Books Are Like My Childhood Or Something I Don't Know It's A Metaphor_______________We went to a friend's wedding once and because I was one of the people chosen to read a passage from the Bible at the wedding (I did so with such verve that another friend was impressed: You really put a lot of emotion into it!
Chased out of his favorite hiding spot by the demoness Metria - a new and soon to be recurring character who seemingly goes through a thesaurus every time she tries to use a simple word - he makes his way to the castle of the good magician Humphrey hoping to find a way to dislodge his unwelcome guest.
Along the way, they encounter several highly entertaining characters: the curse fiend Latia, the skeleton Marrow, and the brassie Bria.I particularly like the manner in which Bria decides to apologize to Esc. Though simple in nature - something that often irks me about the female characters in many other of Mr. Anthony's Xanth novels - I couldn't help but smile every time she employs it, which happens quite often.
Easier to get through than some of the others so far. But it ours hard to deny my interest is lagging.
This is another in the loooong (I mean that in a good way) Xanth series. It is filled with puns and a fun read.
All of the stories have the same pattern to them but even So, I enjoy the writing. Gotta love those puns and play on words. It can't be easy coming up with so many.
It also means that characters who completed their story in a previous book can act as secondary characters in the new one.This book also marks the beginning of the 3rd Generation for Xanth.
The benefit of this new format is that the reader can not like one or more of the characters and still be interested in the story.
The last character is Vadne, who is not only new but of a species that we have not yet encountered (The Voles).One thing that I really like about this book is in regards to Esk as a character as it acknowledges a type of child abuse which is not often discussed.
The series occupies a strange space between silly and weird.
Anthony has some odd opinions on themes, such as sex, racism, prejudice, growing up, and the use of magic in everyday life.
The writing vacillates between heavy-handed condescending to extended analysis of magic, science, and the application of the rules of Xanth.
Some love it, some hate it; I personally thought it was a strange read but harmless, although I doubt I'll read each book twice.
One thing about Anthony, he has a very complicated history and genealogy of Xanth and its characters and you have to appreciate how he always finds ways to connect them from book to book.
They are all on their way to the Good Magician's castle, and when they get there, they find that the Good Magician, the Gorgon, and Hugo are all missing.After going to Castle Roogna, it is decided that the friends should do what they can to help the voles of the Vale to get rid of the demons that have destroyed the area.
The adventure takes off from here, where the characters meet new friends from the Gourd, and even explore that land of dreams.This is a good addition to the Xanth series, and I think it will be liked by anyone who enjoys the series.
This book's protagonist is Esk. He's the son of a previous protagonist: Smash Ogre.
A Xanth book wouldn't be complete without a male protagonist falling in love with someone, so Esk falls for Bria.
Which suggests the name of the book is secretly "Sale of the Sole.") Volney the vole has a problem related to demons too, because they wrecked his river.
This book is different from others in the series because it's the first of a sort-of trilogy; the problems aren't all solved by the end.
"You don’t have to settle for what you are at this moment.
You can work to make a difference."Staple character to the Xanth novels, the Good Magician Humphrey has gone missing, so a mismatched group of travels who want their questions answered go to look for him.The quest here was a little lacking when compared to some of the other novels (there's no Mundania, there's no time travel) there's just a quest.
We see some interesting new talents and for me the play on the Kissimmee River (that I grew up not too far from), was pretty hilarious (but then again, most of Anthony's puns are spot on.)
I liked this book.
Ends up finding this friends on the path to Humprhrey Castle.Volney, Chex, the winged Centaur, Brassie the Brass Girl.
Volney tell him of his plight and he is also going to see Humphrey.
He meets two other friends and when they arrive Magician Humphrey is missing so they all go to Castle Roogna, They speak to Ivy and they decide to help Volney save his land from the help Volney Vole and find Brassie.
I am a little upset with how abruptly he ended this book.
But mostly liked it
I seem to remember the Xanth novels being a lot better when I was really into them a few years ago.
Then again, I was reading the books later on in the series, so they may have improved along the line.Still it was a very easy read, and enjoyable in a simple way.
I finished it in a day, something i haven't done with a novel in ages.
Sometimes you just need something uncomplicated and entertaining.I'm eventually going to move on to his harder sci-fantasy series and see if I've built them up as more than they are, in my memoery, too.
I could hardly wait to read this one after the awful Night Mare.
And I wasn't let down.
Esk is the latest in a long line.Metria is always amusing.
How can you go wrong with a demoness who likes to cause trouble but not too much trouble?I love Chex and I love the solution to her flying problem/beau problem.One of my favorite little bits was the dopplegangers in the gourd.
When they all had to face their worst fears I couldn't put the book down because I wanted to see each character work it out.
Synopsis: A group of miscellaneous characters of mixed races meet each other along a road and decide to travel together.
They're each going to the same place, to ask a wizard a question.
Along the way, various random problems emerge, which they overcome with their variety of gifts (the majority of the book are these random encounters).
After visiting the wizard's base, they must make a trip to defeat a villain, and water is definitely involved prominently in said defeat.Sound familiar?This book suffers from the same joys and flaws as all the Xanth books, but I enjoyed this one pretty well.
I don't remember a lot about this book from when I read it about 13 years ago. The parts I do remember involved centaur breasts (oh wait, "pectoral muscles"), skeleton sex, a seductress vole, the main character peeing on things, a woman made of brass, and a big fight at the end to save the voles, who were important for some reason. In retrospect, it was probably not the best book to fall into the hands of a middle-schooler.
Pretty much follows the standard Anthony formulae at this point in the Xanth series...protagonist is introduced (Esk), encounters problem (demoness Metria), sets out on quest to solve problem and meets characters on the way (Volney, Chex, Latia, Marrow), a love interest (Bria), and travels through Xanth eventually solving problem and winning love interest. I still enjoy reading Anthony's Xanth series, but they are starting to follow the same theme.
Xanth without the Good Magician? How can this be? It means the characters have to stumble through on their own, with mixed results. A few more of my favorite characters get a mention as well. Three characters, Chex, Volney and Esk find that all their quests lead them to the same point, and must save the Vale of the Vole to complete their respective missions.Five stars again, another delightful installment in the Xanth series.
fun fantasy book. many different kinds of fantasy creatures interact. the protagonist is part human part ogre part everything it seems, and this is used regularly (hey he needs ogre strength here. hey he needs a human quality here, etc.) but at least he does not better any of the "pureblood" creatures with his "mudblood" abilities.
I enjoyed this one. I was heavily into Adventure games at the time, so this played out like I was watching / experiencing one first-hand. I think that's the lure. Appealing characters, 'taxing' tests and imaginative solutions. Everything you need from a good adventure game.I have my nostalgia glasses on, so that's why it gets a five. For an adult, less exemplary, but still fun!
The series continues with children and grandchildren of people in the first few books. This one has three protagonists instead of one adding to the adventures. As life progresses and readers get older...I think their reading needs change a bit but nostalgia can hold you to a loved series through thick and thin.
This book didn't keep me quite as interested as the other Piers Anthony books I've read, but it was still full of puns and worth reading for a good laugh. I really appreciated how the main character rejected a physical relationship from the start with someone he didn't even know. Instead he chose to wait until he found the right person. That's the way!
This book appears to be a departure from the format of the earlier books in the series. There are very few puns in this book, which makes it necessary for it to stand alone as a descent fantasy novel. It does this okay, but not great. As always, the characters are enjoyable, but the story was just okay.
