https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/157808.Star_Soldiers
Molded into a strict regime by Galactic Central Control, man’s creative aspects are ignored as they bleed off their most courageous warriors.ANDRE NORTON needs to be capitalized for her impact on the entire genre.
This book follows the initial deployment of Kana Karr an Arch Swordsman.
Earth’s mercenaries are divided into Mechs and Archs.
Kana Karr is well characterized as a shiny, new, well trained novice.
For military fans, think shiny new 2nd Lt. His growth into a veteran facing not only what he was trained to do but facing Central Control treachery forms the basis of the plot.
Norton always provides wonderful verbal scenery and characterizations.
One of the last remaining Stellar Patrol ships crash lands on an unknown planet, and the survivors discover other castaways and the remnants of a lost civilization.Although both stories were written over half a century ago, they stand up well.
There are so many well-written and well-edited free and low cost eBooks from indie authors, I find myself appalled when a traditional publisher cannot produce something with equally high quality.Still, the stories are good, and I would recommend this compilation for all space opera fans.
If you want to read more of Andre Norton’s books, several are available free from Project Gutenberg.
I read the first volume. (this is a twofer.) It was good. Enjoyable, but not good enough that I wanted to read the second. A low three stars.
Independently, each is a fun story of one character facing the complete change of the world he has previously known.
This discontentedness manifests itself in reluctance to assume mantles which are thrust upon them (more so in the second story admittedly).
Even one portion where it seems like a connection might be formed seems to instead allow the second to contradict the first (detracting from both).Separately, I would recommend the first story to those who enjoyed Jerry Pournelle's "The Prince" series.
The second I would suggest to those who enjoy Asimov's Foundation trilogy.
The two individual titles are 'Star Guard' and 'Star Rangers'.The first is about a unit of mercenaries who find themselves betrayed on an alien planet.
** two stars.The second follows the adventures of a small group of Rangers and ships crew who crash on an unknown planet.
A better story *** three stars.The two stories have nothing to do with each other so I am not really sure why these were put together.
I really got bogged down in the first story and would have thought better overall if I had just read the second.
This is a collection of Norton's two Central Control novels, Star Guard (1955) and Star Rangers (1953).
It's currently a free download on Amazon so I decided to give it a try.
I only read Star Guard so far, and it's a pretty good old fashioned military sf yarn.
Standard plot: plucky rookie ends up helping save the world.
Some of the plot - an Earth hemmed in by hostile aliens, people can only go to space through military channels - reminded me a lot of Old Man's War by John Scalzi, and I'd be surprised it this was not an inspiration.
What did I think? I think that's two Norton books,and I give up. This was an incredibly dull book from start to utterly anti-climatic finish. That woman can't write an ending to save her life. Or compelling characters for that matter. The ideas are decent, but they need to be given over to a much more skilled author.
Two stars for the first book as it had a really bad ending, and three stars for the second, which was more of an essay in race relations. I am a big fan of Andre Norton, and this was free from Amazon, so I thought I would give it a try, but cannot really recommend it.
Interesting combination of two novels, one set at the beginning of human activity in the galaxy, the other at the end of that huge empire. Dated, sure, but by a master of the genre. If you like that sort of retro SF, then you should pick this one up.
Nice loosely based sequel to Norton's Star Guard. Nice and easy but fun SiFi read. Recommended
There are also several previously-unknown native threats which take them by surprise on the unfamiliar planet.I enjoyed the story all the way through, but I started to get even more caught up in it toward the end.
The story wrapped up the main action, but it left a lot of questions at the end about what would happen next.
The second story is also told from the perspective of a single character, Kartr, who is one of a handful of survivors from a crash landing on an unknown and distant planet.
I also thought that, in both books, there were aspects of the stories that weren’t fleshed out or explained in a very believable way.
Star Soldiers is an Omnibus Edition of the Central Control series by Andre Norton.A free copy can be found hereStar GuardWhen the human race finally began to explore interstellar space, they found that they were not alone.
(hide spoiler)]Overall, the book was good, and I can recommend it to anyone looking for a nice Action Adventure Sci-Fi with a twist of Space Opera.
I give it 3.5 stars and call it a Good Read.Star Rangers (aka The Last Planet)The second installment (first written, but second chronologically) takes place some four thousand years after the events of Star Guard.
Star Guard 1955Kana 18, fresh from training, joins mercenary troops, the only way alien rulers Central Control, allow humans to travel space.
The great number of illegal weapons and soldiers means Central has to know, so returning to Prime on Earth just puts Kana and Hansu back in their enemy power.
(view spoiler)[ Kana escapes, found by Hansu, to learn that humans formed underground resistance soon after first meeting aliens three centuries before.
Kartr is a telepathic human Bemmy-lover, and Zinga, Fylh, and Rolth are aliens "Bemmies", the only chances for survival when scoutship Starfire crashes on a new world.
Or two of them, I guess.This is an omnibus edition of Star Guard and Star Rangers, two novels set in the same universe but with several thousand years separating them.The first book, Star Guard, is theoretically Military SF, with humans only allowed in space as mercenaries to keep us locked off from the galaxy at large and from becoming a threat to galactic culture.
He only makes a couple of small contributions to the events going on.I power through to the end, with some difficulty, but Star Guard didn’t rate very high for me at all, and I hoped for a better second act with Star Rangers.Which I got, in the form of a more or less straight forward adventure story, ostensibly in the same setting but a few thousand years later.
more later
Brings back memories I first read stories by Norton in the 60’s and enjoyed the yarns she spun. The stories have a strong central character that matches the timeline. The outcome is hopeful.
This is not a problem in abundance due to the stark lack of any real depth of science fiction in the stories.The first centers around a crew of soldier mercenaries who find themselves stranded on an alien planet, surrounded by hostiles and unknowns, with the goal of escape their primary intention.
The journey quickly begins to feel like a long series of events dictated to the reader rather than a story.
The thing that sets this book apart from the first is the clear development of a purpose underlying the story.
Ultimately the characters do still lack real development and quickly fall from memory when not focused on.
This book has humans and lots of different alien races, but no female characters, which is pretty common for old sci fi.
It's a humans-the-explorers-and-adventure-seekers type story (again as is a lot of older sci fi), which I guess does tend to generally be more guys' than girls' personalities.
On the other hand, I think a decent amount of newer science fiction, which does have female characters, tends to be a little raunchy.
So I think I'll stick with complete lack of female characters.*I'm not arguing that there aren't differences, just that we're not completely different races.Disclaimer: I've had ~6 hours sleep in the last 2 days, due to being on shift in Argentina.
This book is comprised of two separate novels, Star Guard and Star Rangers.
Star Guard was a decent old-school story about a group of soldiers who were stranded on a hostile planet after their war came to an abrupt end.
I would have rated this story a 3 if it was by itself.However, Star Rangers, the second novel included in the book, was one of my favorite Andre Norton stories.
When their small group encounters others on the planet they have to deal with questions concerning racial intolerance, the ethics of mind probes, and the conflict of technology vs.
I was especially engrossed in Star Guard because of the futurist medieval-ism, a theme which I always enjoy, and so I was even more disappointed to find the second story is completely different.
Besides being Scienec-Fiction they are honestly completely different Genres.
The writing can be clunky, the pacing can be erratic, the endings are fairly abrupt and seem disconnected from the rest of the story, but all that is pretty much normal in early sci-fi.
Especially in this day when Science Fiction and Fantasy rival any other genre in the quality of their writing, their characterization, and their pacing.
It's not clear if the first CC and the second CC are the same entity.I liked this book (or I should say "these books"), but I should warn you that it has not aged well in spots.
There are few female characters, none of which are major, even though Norton is at pains to point out that discrimination based on looks/species/whatever is rare and frowned upon (I did notice she didn't say "gender.")I did like the political intrigue and the "simple, common man" getting mixed up in it and changing everything.
I think political intrigue as easily explained as in these stories is not as common these days.
Este libro se compone de dos novelas que trazan el inicio y el ocaso de una civilización galáctica, desde el momento en que la Tierra sale al espacio y se encuentra con un imperio que establece unas limitaciones a las opciones de los terrestres, convirtiéndolos en ciudadanos de segunda solo aptos para ser los mercenarios de las guerras en la frontera.
Son dos relatos de acción, sin tramas amorosas, en los que no hay grandes novedades dentro de los esquemas del género.
Si bien el final de Star Rangers (la segunda novela) tiene un giro sorprendente y que abre las puertas a muchas posibles lineas de continuación.
free Ebook offert par BAEN contenant deux livres écrits dans les années 50 (cela se sent) mais l'his
Interesting I usually love Andre Norton and if I had read this as a young man I probably would have but as a middle aged reader it is very dated while still a worthy read it doesn't hit my scale for a great book
Actually two novellas, this book strikes me as being very uneven. I enjoyed the first, would have given it a three, but didn't finish the second.
Had to read this book again, gains in meaning each time I read it.
Really enjoyable 1950s science fiction
An old book, that addresses some of the same issues of prejudice that we experience today
Star Soldiers by Andre Norton I would give this a much larger number if I could, I haven't read any book by Andre Norton that isn't great and this doesn't disappoint.
Andre Norton never disappoints. This one dragged a little in places, but the writing made up for it. She was really good at creating characters and worlds. I'll definitely read the second book and update my review if needed.
