https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11557.Swan_Song
I fell in love with Sister Creep, Swan and Josh.
Artie and Sister decide to travel together and on their way out of town, Sister finds this piece of glass with diamonds and stuff in it outside of Tiffany's.
The main thing is that Sister and Artie and Swan and Josh all meet new people on their travels.
Swan and Josh pick up Killer and Mule along the way.
The second part of the book takes place 7 years later and there is all kinds of weird stuff going on with Swan and Sister.
This is one of the darkest post-apocalyptic books I've read in a while... totally satisfied that craving. I may have had a few bad dreams about it!What I would have liked knowing beforehand:- Nuclear war with Russia- There are fantasy elements in here- Yes, it's long...- There's a war going on so if you're not really into military fiction... won't be for you!- Overall it was almost too realistic...- Did I say it was really dark?I would recommend it!
What if the apocalypse that befell the poor souls in The Stand was nuclear instead of viral in nature and the whole thing was written in a style more like Richard Matheson's than Stephen King's?
Swan Song doesn't have that final battle between good and evil thing going like the Stand did, although some of the events could be interpreted as such.Swan, the title character, starts off as a little girl who's strangely good with plants before the bombs drop.
The style was much more gripping and I got attached to Sister, Josh, and Swan.
4.5 to 5.0 stars.
I am a big fan of The Stand by Stephen King and I thought it was the "standard" in apocalyptic fiction...UNTIL NOW.
Swan Song is THE BEST apocalyptic science fiction book I have ever read.
At over 950 pages, this book could have been a chore to get through but that was not the case at all.
I flew through it and never found my attention wandering or my interest waning.
A truly spectacular novel with a superb cast of really good peeople and REALLY BAD PEOPLE!!
Highest possible recommendation!!!
Part of that is that I think I'd have appreciated it a lot more had I read it before reading The Stand, because I just couldn't quite manage to not compare them, and that did not end up favoring Swan Song.
*sob*) What that time should not be used for is repetitive scenes only included in the book to show us Swan's ability...
Because going through it every time we hop back over to a Swan chapter felt like maybe one or two times too many.
McCammon's enormous horror epic "Swan Song":41% The Stand novel10% The Road novel (which is actually, in itself, like 7% Mad Max--a source which must NOT go completely ignored)10% Blood Meridian novel (so about 60% of S.S. can be found in King & McCarthy alone)10% Lord of the Rings (6% Two Towers battle + 4% magic ring emblem)5% Lonesome Dove novel5% Dawn of the Dead films (mall battleground, motorcycle gangs...)4% Cold Mountain novel/film3% Death Race/Death Race 2000 film2% Battle Royale film3% Hunger Games (duh) franchise3% (Silvester Stallone's) Daylight1% Poseidon Adventure1% Pocahontas (the colonization tale in the new Wild West)1% Sleeping Beauty (kiss of maiden)1% Snow White (apple symbol & love's kiss)Yeah, the "whole country's been nuked" (130) by them lethal Russians.
Maybe “The Road” if I can bring myself to listen to it.If you’ve read this you already know it’s one of the best end of the world novels ever written, if you haven’t read it yet and you’re a fan of the new apocalypse books flooding the shelves, you really need to do yourself a favor and read this one.
There’s enough setup and character back story here for 3 or 4 modern day books.
The action takes a little bit to get going but once it starts there is a lot of it and it’s described in vivid detail.
Swan, who has a gift for growing things and seeing into people, unnerves her mom's latest boyfriend, and after he slaps Darleen, mother and daughter hit the road.-- In Idaho, the Croninger family wind their RV up Blue Dome Mountain, where they're bought a two-week time share in Earth House, an underground compound managed by Vietnam veteran Colonel James Macklin.
In the retaliatory strike that follows, Josh, Swan & Doreen are buried in a fallout shelter under the gas station.Colonel Macklin and the staff of Earth House track World War III in real time and seal the mountain as they've drilled for countless times.
Swan Song by Robert McCammon Every now and then, you come across a book where it seems that the complexities of life have been disassembled from reality and reformed within the pages and text. A story that, sometimes in its simplicity, captures the moving parts and varying angles of spirituality, psychology, physiology and sociology like a prism, separates them by colour, strength and depth. Then uses the differing colours to paint a kaleidoscopic tableau that opens our minds to that which is kn
Swan Song by Robert McCammon	Every now and then, you come across a book where it seems that the complexities of life have been disassembled from reality and reformed within the pages and text.
Yet, amid the spectrum of humanity, broken down into its rainbow form through the characters, McCammon wove a tail of good versus evil.
If you see these racially charged words, don't let them blind you like the man with the red eye, follow them and you'll see more hope and strength in those voices than anywhere else in the book.
The Kindle edition is currently on offer: £2.05p in the UK, possibly $1.99 in the States (it's showing as $2.69) - and $1.99 in Canada Considering the price it's usually going for - the current price is more than copasetic.I bought it eons' ago, and still haven't read it, yet. I'll have to rectify that, sometime, soon. Hopefully.
There are old hackneyed ideas "guns are BAD", if you look nonthreatening your less likely to be threatened, war is evil...on and on.
Some of the story telling put me in mind of the old "what would happen if they gave a war and nobody came" idea spouted back in the "wonderful" late 60s and 70s.
Sorry.I will be reading other books by Mr. McCammon, as I've read good books by him, books I really like, but this one goes on my to be sold, traded, or whatever pile.
It's the journey more than anything else that makes this a good read.And then there's also the cool tarot themes and actual inclusion of the tarot reads (and other twists) as well as a whole Christian metaphor springing up all over the place, including the horsemen of the apocalypse and even a huge dose of the resurrection of life, so we've got a pretty cool collection of fantastical elements.
It's kinda sweet.My main problem with this post-nuclear wasteland, however, is one that's been explored so very well in practically every other writer or game designer, (Thank you, Fallout) about the availability of food.
She can rightful be placed in the hall of fame of young gifted courageous girls like that of Matilda and the girl from the Firestarter by Stephen King(seen the movie not read yet).The story starts of with a bang literally, two nations engage in a war and cross a point of no return, that results in mass destruction and annihilates most of the country into apocalyptic status.In the post apocalypse setting a band of pilgrims, survivors of the destruction are put to the tests of their lives.
This evil does have many faces.Good and evil cross paths many times in this story, war and death is still ever present after the great destruction as groups fight for control and power over land and food.
I looked forward to the chapters with Roland's story.Other favorites were our protagonists/heroes: Swan, Josh and Sister.---Not going to go into the plot or overshare here because truly, if you're a fan of horror and epic dystopian adventures, this one is a MUST and it needs to be full of individual discovery---My own feelings:This is my third Robert McCammon novel and I'm falling in love with his writing style.
Readers who have a faith in something bigger than themselves, a spiritual background will enjoy the way Robert McCammon handles that with some of his believing characters.So I'll leave with my recommendation here:This book is amazing.
And both books feature supernatural beings as avatars of the forces of Good and Evil fighting for supremacy.Stephen King might be the better writer in terms of character development and prose, but I think The Stand came unglued in the final third and fizzled out in a confusing , unconvincing finale.
The narrative drive sagged a little in the middle of the story, but the action picked up by the end into a real page turner.Swan Song is a much darker tale than The Stand, and Robert McCammon managed an impressive rendering of the destruction wrecked on the landscape and on the human psyche.
The ending reaches just a bit too far into feel-good territory for me, and was a culmination of all those moments of schmaltz which I disliked.If I were 13 and haven't read The Stand - which has to be named here, and I'd say why in a moment - I would have loved this book.
Swan Song was his breakthrough novel from the horror genre, and it is an impressive achievement when you consider the theme and the size, but in the end it went out with a whimper, not a bang, and I don't think a re-read is in order.
'All that was is lost.' The trees are burning in Central Park.
Grand Central Station and the Empire State Building - gone.
Mountains of ruined debris tower over everything.
Wait .
the electric lights on the marquee at the Empire State Theatre are still merrily twinkling, the movie house itself seemingly untouched.
Currently showing is the film 'Face of Death', while a lone cinema patron sits in the front row giggling manically.
Josh, a giant of a man and a former pro wrestler, is trying to protect her from the evil that inevitably surfaces at a time like this.
Evil is thriving.
Here's the bottom line: Swan Song is one of my favorite books of all time.
It stills impacts me every bit as much as the first time I read it.Swan Song is very dark, and it's scary, but it's also one of the most beautiful and hopeful books I have ever read.Weighing in at 956 pages, it's a huge story in every sense of the word.
There is magic, evil, goodness, hope, ruin, and beauty throughout the pages of Swan Song.If you are a fan of post-apocalyptic fiction, Swan Song is an absolute must read.
This is copy 252 of 650 signed numbered copies.
this was fantastic! I listened to this for a buddy read. I never would've picked this book out myself. I'm not really into the apocalyptic scene. but I'm sure glad I joined them! it's so intense through most of the book.listened to this again in 2017 and loved it just as much this time as I did the first time.
It's just a great post-apocalytic epic full of memorable characters and action and adventure and magic and love, and what can I say, I am a sucker for big honkin' doorstopper novels about the end of the world.
McCammon puts his book through every trope in the post-apocalyptic checklist: pretty virginal magical white girl with a heart that is pure who will remake the world?
Turn off your inner critic, turn your sensitivity to annoying tropes way down, and Swan Song is crackin' great apocalyptic fun.So, my 5-star rating should not be construed as endorsing this as a Great Work or the Best Post-Apocalyptic Novel Ever or anything like that.
One of my trusty goodreads friend's recently recommended Robert McCammon to me and I am so grateful she did (thanks Jennifer!).
Robert McCammon is truly a very talented storyteller and I was immediately wrapped up in this dystopian story of survival after a nuclear holocaust.Most people, including myself, feel that long books can be a drag especially for those who have a shorter attention span but with Swan Song, I enjoyed it so much that I viewed it as a series all wrapped up into one book so that I wouldn't have to wait for the next one!
I highly recommend this book!
Feels like The Stand, only with greater amounts of mysticism and nuclear war instead of disease.
Not quite sure why McCammon needed to jump 7 years into the future.
Need to age the lead characters?
What was he thinking?
If the nuclear winter lasted 7 years, I think there'd be almost no one left--there's only so much scavenging one can do for canned food and gasoline.
That jump tested my patience.
Fairly believable until then.Negatives: polarizing, simplistic viewpoints: the sociopath, the split personality disorder, the innocent daughter of a 'ho and the giant fearsome but gentle man, the street person with a vision of the future, personification of evil.
It was too long and too predictable.I enjoyed the first 2/3 of this book but when I realised the author really was going to go for the saccharine ending, the wind was taken out of my sails..
Take Job's Mask, for example : a hard and crusty face covering developed over the years by victims closest to the point of the nuclear explosions.
No shades of grey for this author, no siree!The characters develop predictably as does the whole story.
I'd come so far...In the end, it was an interesting enough account of a post apocalyptic world.
In The Stand it's a disease that brings about the end of civilization as we know it, but really that's the main difference.
McCammon dwells on these things so little that when the sun comes out at the end I wondered why it was such a big deal until I remembered it had been pretty dark all along.One of the issues I had with this are just how bad the bad guys are.
I felt almost as if he were setting the stage for a sequel or follow up novel.After griping for the last few paragraphs I feel I need to say I did actually enjoy the novel.
Without giving anything away (haha), Character A finds a Meaningful Object early in the book.
In fact, you get the impression that once the Meaningful Object and Character B finally get together, things are gonna happen.
Meanwhile, the Evil Baddie really wants it really bad so you know its gonna be good at the end...the Meaningful Object is bad news for Evil Baddie.Sooooo....in the final pages, Meaningful Object and Character B finally meet and its magic.
It imbues Character B with a cool power that would be useful in a showdown with Evil Baddie and his Minions of Badness.
I can definitely see why so many people love it, and I imagine it would have been a hell of a lot better for me personally had I read this back in the late eighties as a teenager when the cold war was at its peak and nuclear winter was a widely accepted theory.Still, I did find a lot to enjoy in the book.
It's probably not the book that is lacking in any way, most likely just my personal preference for reading material that is economical in its use of words, tightly coiled tales with little to no wasted space.
And McCammon's prose makes the long page-count zip by.The sad thing is that it will always be compared to Stephen King's superior novel, The Stand.
Swan Song does stand on its own merits, but there are still way too many close similarities to ignore.
I mean come on, don't try to deny that the harrowing trip through the Holland Tunnel out of New York wasn't EXTREMELY similar to Larry's trip through the Lincoln Tunnel in Stephen King's book?
This was my first read from Robert McCammon, it got me very excited to read more, and now he's one of my favorite authors!
A massive journey you’ll end up loving or hating.
Characters that need to be introduced and understood fairly fast.
Yet he still maintains a vivid connection between characters, worlds’ away.The beginning is the end and people are bracing nuclear war.
Fallout shelters are built, the President of the United the of States is being briefed for an imminent nuclear war.
Before the main characters are able to adapt to the effects of a post-apocalyptic world.
If you have a car, canned food, able to wield weapon or a strong will to live.
A crazy homeless woman who later becomes a hero.However, even after a nuclear war.

