https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5093.Song_of_Susannah
(B+) 77% | GoodNotes: Nothing remarkable, but nothing terrible. Just a light aperitif to cleanse the palate and set the stage for the final tome.
I'm going to sit down and write reviews on the whole Dark Tower series after I finish, but I just have to say these books are becoming more and more tiresome.
It just seems as if King has lost the vision of Roland the Gunslinger, so he - in order to have something to write about - constantly tinkers with the lore, changes history around, blames things on this multi-timestream concept, or spends whole novels describing an event merely to snap his fingers and change everything the next book so as to move his new plot line along.
These are just my initial thoughts on Song of Susannah and the Dark Tower series as I begin reading the last book.
The story wasn't bad, some of the new characters were interesting, but I cannot give it a higher rating because of the author himself.Stephen King has indulged in the ULTIMATE form of ego stroking in this volume and it pissed me off.
The plot could've been structured some other way to avoid what he's doing right now - you *can* adjust plot, much as it sometimes hurts to do so - and the fact that he went ahead and wrote what he wrote is annoying and...
I had hoped, by the time I finished the book, that I could understand why he did it, that maybe I'd see that the story really *had* to be written that way.
As Susannah wrestles Mia for control of her own body and learns more about the Crimson King, Roland and Eddie plan to follow and save her while Jake and Callahan also come to our world to protect the rose growing in a vacant lot which is actually a critical incarnation of the Tower.
(view spoiler)[ A lot of fans don’t like that King wrote himself into this, and I was hesitant about it myself the first time through this when I wasn’t sure how the story would end.
It caught on the doorway when I got sucked into this here reality.”King stared at the gunslinger as he removed the cap from the beer and gave King a swig.“You’re not going to untie me, are you?”“Look my time is short and I’ll do it right before I leave.
Can Jake and Callahan find Susannah before she has her baby?Song of Susannah was my least favorite book in the Dark Tower series the first time through.
(view spoiler)[I have a feeling their fates in The Dark Tower are going to be almost as painful the second time through.
I still love Long, Tall, and Ugly, even though he'd probably leave me along the Path of the Beam the first morning I bitched about not having coffee.There is something else that I liked a lot more the second time but it's pretty spoilerific.
The shootout with Roland and Eddie near the beginning was one of the series highlights in fact and was truly gripping.The parts I didn’t like all that much were the Mia and Susannah parts which did take up over half of the book, I found it hard to pay attention to these parts and was wishing for a quick return to some real “Gunslinging” but they were necessary for the direction of the series (I can only hope/assume).
A series well worth starting if you’ve not as of yet.If you like this try: “11/22/63” by Stephen King
Roland was looking fixedly at the already diminishing flickers of lightning in the east, where the land of Thunderclap waited for them, and the Court of the Crimson King, and, at the end of End-World, the Dark Tower itself.Extraordinary! I almost cannot wait for the ending, no matter how controversial.Full review to come.Dark Tower reviews:#1  The Gunslinger #2  The Drawing of the Three #3  The Waste Lands #4  Wizard and Glass #5  Wolves of the Calla #6  Song of Susannah #7  The Dark Tower
3.5 Approximately 800 years ago I began a quest; a quest to take some much-loved friends of mine on a journey like no other.
*dares anyone to question her with her death-stare**watches Jeff flinch and cackles*The reason I don’t like Susannah is that she continuously fucks everything up.
Parts of Susannah’s story are interesting, but every time I start to think I’m invested in her, I find she does something to make me want to punch that crazy bitch in her throat.
Her story in this gets completely out of control and takes a turn I’ve never liked.
Like with all books in the series thus far, the journey has been infinitely more important than the destination.
If I had to outline a series like this I think I would be too intimidated to start.
Anyway, there really is something about reading a book by a great.
Don't get me wrong, I'm ready to see the Tower and follow Roland inside but I'm sad the journey is coming to a close.
The good news is, there are more great books out there to read--but there's only one dark tower.
Song of Susannah could have been 100 pages and held the same amount of information. Almost nothing happened and maybe four questions were answered. Come on, King. I’m ready for book VII and the end.
I've enjoyed this series immensely, all the way up until this book.
Now I am reading the last one just to see if he can straighten out the mess he made here.
What was he thinking?
This is the ultimate in mental masturbation an author can produce.
I know authors of serials sometimes put themselves in the story (Clive Cussler comes to mind,) but it's usually done in such a brief, tongue-in-cheek way that it's like a little easter egg.
This is way over the top, and it pissed me off.
What I really enjoyed about this audio were the diary entries from SK himself, which were read by the narrator after the story was over.
In these entries, he talks about his drinking, about how some of the DT stories came about, and about how he and his wife argued over his taking his daily walks alongside a busy highway.
I don't remember these being in the book back when I read it the first time, so it may be something that was only included in the audio, or in reprints of the original book?
I only have one book to go in my audio re-read of the DT series.
DTProject2017 | Book 6 This used to be my least favourite book of the series. Now it's just one of the least favourites of the series, probably in the same level with the #2 book The Drawing of the ThreeReading it for the second time after 5 years I feel that things are clearer and I know what's going on.What confused me the first time and it's still unclear are the places that Susannah visits. Are there in her mind, she travels with her mind, I don't know and that's what makes this book the le
DTProject2017 | Book 6
This used to be my least favourite book of the series.
Now it's just one of the least favourites of the series, probably in the same level with the #2 book The Drawing of the ThreeReading it for the second time after 5 years I feel that things are clearer and I know what's going on.What confused me the first time and it's still unclear are the places that Susannah visits.
This book was just disgusting in it's narcissism and lack of story advancement.
(view spoiler)[ Suddenly Susannah can imagine a microphone and talk to other people mind to mind?
Since when has Susannah been able to have conversations with her other personalities?
(hide spoiler)]Most egregious of all and the most supercilious is how Stephen King writes himself into the story as a character.
It was beyond what I can accept or tolerate.The entire book was completely irritating and I'm sick to death of the overuse of the weird way everyone talks.
I'm tired of a bunch of filler books which don't advance the story.
Thanks for the earworms, uncle Stevie:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=08e9k...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ipqqE...RTC once my ka-tet catches up.
OH HELL TO THE NO!!" But like I said, for me it was just a 'passage to the end of the journey' type book to me.For some reason, Roland is a character I....identify?
I mean, I do in some cases, but for some reason, being female doesn't make me feel connected to her, and I think identification should go deeper than that.) She definitely has an importance in this series, and King has utlized her character for many great things.
Eager because as I have read these books, it has become more than a desire to know what Roland finds in the Dark Tower, or if he even makes it.
I like the story of Tower and Deepneau in hiding and signing over the property to the Tet Corporation.
I like the Dixie Pig and all that transpires there.
They ultimately go to a hotel, spend some time in the crazy castle, and go to the Dixie Pig. But it is spread over so many pages!Then there is the matter of putting Black Thirteen in long term storage in the basement of the World Trade Center, with payment until 2002.
The near misses with traffic while walking, the sobriety, the "wind blowing" to keep writing the tower stories, and the crashing (no pun intended, or is it?) into a huge cliffhanger.
4.5 stars. A lot of people dislike vol. 6 of The Dark Tower novels but I really liked this! No matter how meta it got, I still couldn't put it down. Really fantastic. I can't honestly review it because anything I say could be construed as a spoiler, but if you're reading the novels - this is a good one. Has more of a The Drawing of the Three and The Waste Lands feel to it (coincidentally, my favourites in the series so far).

Really enjoyed how King wrote himself into the story.
Also enjoyed the dialogue between Mia and Susannah.
My heart was in my mouth for Oy a couple of times and that scene where Jake has to leave him, the tears...oh my!
Stephen King, you naughty man playing with me like that!This volume did feel a little like filler for the final instalment but that's ok because I enjoyed the ride.
Have a lot of questions that need answering before the end of this series.
I'm not sure whether they'll all be answered (I suspect not!) but I'm interested to see how King brings this baby home!

It wasn’t badly written, I just despise Mia daughter on none.This book is quite short compared to the others excluding the first book, ‘ The Gunslinger ‘, and surrounds one event.
Eddie and Roland, Jake, Callahan and Oy, and lastly Mia and Susanna.
Can they come to a truce before the event?
There is much hatred coming from Susanna.
Mia is out of her mind.
It is a conclusion to the event, but of course I wanted to know what happens next.
Book 7 and the finale to this tale here I come.
I know a lot of people aren’t fans of this instalment in the Dark Tower series.
I however, am definitely not part of those people.
I honestly think this is my favourite book out of the whole series.
She was my favourite character after my first read of this series and this remains true so many years later.
I could go on and on about how much I love this book and this series because it truly does get better with each read through.
So many little details are popping out at me this time and it’s making me love this journey even more!
Steven King's magnum opus.
Okay, not so bad but not as good as the first.On "THE WASTELANDS" The series improves with fast-paced, difficult to follow forays into alternate realities.On "WIZARD AND GLASS" The best of this series.ON "WOLVES OF THE CALLA" Beginning of the slow degradation of this concept series into mish-mosh.On "SONG OF SUZANNA" And now we begin to wonder .
What's going on here?On "THE DARK TOWER" Wonder no more .
The grand finale of King's magnum opus fizzles with out a whimper or bang.
Juggling between 3.5 or 4 since there have been so many deux ex machina shit going on lately. Despite it all though, I was entertained.
every section of this unassembled jig-saw puzzle of a book that involves Susannah and Mia. I know this might sound sacrilegious to some hard-core Tower fans, but Susannah has always been my least favorite character and all too often she just annoys the hell out of me.
What I did like: The shoot out in the beginning with Roland and Eddie was phenomenal, and considering what we all know happened to Mr. King while writing this series, I thought the way he inserted himself into the tale was genius.
Thank goodness for the parts mentioned that were entertaining and not just a Susannah-Mia tale or this might have been a 2 star rating.
Προσοχή! Ακολουθεί κριτική μόνο για όσους έχουν διαβάσει το βιβλίο και θα καταλάβουν την παρακάτω στάντζα! :-P ΣΤΡΟΦΗ: Έλα-κομάλα-έλαΠάει το 6ο βιβλίο της σειράς.Σαν κάτι να χάθηκε σ’ αυτή την πορείαΚαι μπλέχτηκαν όλα, συγγραφείς και μαγεία.ΑΠΑΝΤΗΣΗ: Έλα-κομάλα-έξι!Το τέλος είναι πλέον πολύ πιο κοντά!Μακάρι να μην απογοητεύσει του Πύργου η ιστορίαΚι ας χάθηκε κάτι σ’ αυτή την πορεία.Εν ολίγοις, θεωρώ πως είναι το πιο αδύναμο μέχρι τώρα. Θα μπορούσε να είναι πολύ καλύτερο. Η ιστορία δεν προχώρησε πολύ και ο King αναλώθηκε σε υπερβολές και λεπτομέρειες που δεν χρειαζόταν...
Compared to other Dark Tower books, the pace of this one is practically blistering.
There are very few writers that can do that much exposition, end with little resolved, and yet leave me basically satisfied, except for a need to go on.
Instead, it became one of the most interesting concepts in the book, making Ka creation and creativity in opposition to the Crimson King's destruction.
I guess I should have trusted King a little more.
(hide spoiler)]No, it isn't the best Dark Tower book, but it is a good one, and the brisk pace suits it.
