https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22738563-we-should-all-be-feminists
Not long ago, I wrote an article about being young and female in Lagos. And an acquaintance told me that it was an angry article, and I should not have made it so angry. But I was unapologetic. Of course it was angry. Gender as it functions today is a grave injustice. I am angry. We should all be angry. A short, sharp, and effective essay about gender, the wrong ideas many people have about feminism, and why it is so damn important. Even today.I suppose an "essay" doesn't sound like something m
A short, sharp, and effective essay about gender, the wrong ideas many people have about feminism, and why it is so damn important.
Even today.I suppose an "essay" doesn't sound like something most people want to rush out and read.
Looking at the way we treat women and men, and how the expectations we have of both genders is contributing to a gender divide, the author makes an argument for a better future where we are not put into gendered boxes.
I've actually written a little about this in the past, but I especially like the way she draws attention to the importance of the word itself.
I want to just buy a crate of these and pass them out to strangers and friends and family.
This should be required reading
A short, insightful essay about a topic I am incredibly passionate about: feminism. I was practically nodding my head the entire time as so much of what was brought forth hit home. However, I had a few issues with heteronormative and cisnormative language. I don't believe she was being intentionally exclusionary, so I'm interested to read her newest feminist essay in the near future!
Why the word feminist? Why not just say you are a believer in human rights or something like that? Because that would be dishonest. Feminism is, of course, part of human rights in general—but to choose to use the vague expression human rights is to deny the specific and particular problem of gender. It would be a way of pretending that it was not women who have, for centuries, been excluded. It would be a way of denying that the problem of gender targets women.Read this book now.Find more of my books on Instagram
This is the single most convincing essay I’ve ever read on feminism. It does not point fingers and blame men for a cultural mind-set they were born into. Instead, it offers calm logical arguments for positive change going forward. And that’s what the world needs: “A world of happier men and happier women who are truer to themselves. And this is how to start: We must raise our daughters differently. We must also raise our sons differently.” Adichie states that the strongest feminist she ever knew
Adichie states that the strongest feminist she ever knew was a man, and that’s kind of important.
This is an essay about building bridges; it appeals directly to men and asks them to look at the world differently: it ask them to look at their actions, ones which were harmless and indirect, but were nevertheless sexist: it tries to make them open their eyes.“The problem with gender is that it prescribes how we should be rather than recognizing how we are.
The same is true for men who feel unable to express their emotions because such a thing is considered weak and unmanly.
— Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Half of a Yellow Sun.We Should All Be Feminists is a personal, eloquently-argued essay – adapted from the much-viewed Tedx talk of the same name – by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.Which I have, not so coincidentally, watched numerous times— so much so that I have come to learn and preform the speech alongside her.The modified book version of the talk was a very quick and important read that, like the talk, will stay with me for a long time (especially all the beautifully
— Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Half of a Yellow Sun.We Should All Be Feminists is a personal, eloquently-argued essay – adapted from the much-viewed Tedx talk of the same name – by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.Which I have, not so coincidentally, watched numerous times— so much so that I have come to learn and preform the speech alongside her.The modified book version of the talk was a very quick and important read that, like the talk, will stay with me for a long time (especially all the beautifully poignant quotes):“He told me that people were saying my novel was feminist, and his advice to me – he was shaking his head sadly as he spoke – was that I should never call myself a feminist, since feminists are women who are unhappy because they cannot find husbands.So I decided to call myself a Happy Feminist.”“We have evolved.
But our ideas of gender have not evolved very much.”“We spend too much time teaching girls to worry about what boys think of them.
Anyone with a heartbeat should read this essay, even aliens.
‘my own definition of a feminist is a man or a woman who says, yes, there is a problem with gender as it is today and we must fix it, we must do better. all of us, women and men, must do better.’ this. this. a thousand times this!this essay has never been more relevant, important or necessary. it is a wonderful introduction to feminism and its growing purpose in todays society. however, it is just an introduction, as the brief length only allows for adichie to concisely outline what feminism is
‘my own definition of a feminist is a man or a woman who says, yes, there is a problem with gender as it is today and we must fix it, we must do better.
all of us, women and men, must do better.’
a thousand times this!this essay has never been more relevant, important or necessary.
it is a wonderful introduction to feminism and its growing purpose in todays society.
however, it is just an introduction, as the brief length only allows for adichie to concisely outline what feminism is and why it is important.
I was not worried at all - it had not even occurred to me to be worried, because a man who would be intimidated by me is exactly the kind of man I would have no interest in.this is the second book i have read from my quarterly literary fiction box from pagehabit:this is very much like Between the World and Me in the sense that they are both short works addressing huge issues (race, gender) and approaching them more or less anecdotally, which is a really refreshing approach.
We try to change the language we use when addressing boys and girls, we try to disrupt the tradition of expecting different things from female and male staff, we try to see human beings with individual needs and interests rather than "hard men" and "kind women".But there is a trend again in the world, and the author of this short essay points it out in the clearest possible way: feminism has again become a negative, something that is thrown in as an insult whenever someone wants to silence a woman who breaks the hidden rule of behaviour, which tells her that her anger is "aggressive", while her male counterpart is "assertive and strong".We must talk about gender again!
Much care is given to examining the varied ways in which boys and girls are raised, highlighting the disparate priorities emphasized in their upbringing based solely on their gender.
Citing the norms society has come to accept, and the sexual politics that continue to cause imbalance between genders, the author urges readers to transform their way of thinking and lay the foundation for more equality in future by examining and reforming the way boys and girls are raised.
When I read this book - I didn't have nearly the same feeling about it as when I listened to Chimamanda speak.
When I listen to her speak in her Ted talk about this, it felt right ---she was speaking from her experience coming from Africa.When I read this book - taken at face value- here in America - ( in the Bay Area 2017), I asked myself...
My friends have transformed years ago too!!!Also....
Of the two - I'd pass on this pocket book - and instead listen to her speak this book on her TED TALK......a FEW TIMES!!!
In this slim volume, Adichie expresses her views about women's place in Nigerian society.
Today people are valued for their wisdom and intellect and women comprise 52% of the population, yet men are still ahead.
Adichie believes that in order for women to make strides in Nigerian or any society that people have to view women from a similiar lens as men, or the divisions in society will remain rigid.
Rather feminist should mean that a person strives for women to have equal access to gains in all facets of society that men have enjoyed for centuries.
If it is true that the full humanity of women is not our culture, then we can and must make it our culture.I read Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's We Should All Be Feminists in a single, uninterrupted sitting over two beers at my favourite bar.
There is a very good chance I would never have made it more than a dozen pages through this book trying to read it alone and drinking in a bar had I been female.
Let the girl at the bar reading by herself read her book and give her the agency to talk to you if she chooses to, and if she doesn't, don't take it as a slight against yourself.
The fact that feminism is often considered as a negative concept is rather new to me, simply because I've internalized my anger/my annoyance for years and started to point what shocked me to people only recently.
Because I'll always remember the first time I expressed out loud my anger and bewilderment about a sexist situation : people (including women) told me exactly what the author has been told : "ugh but you're a feminist".
I agree with every single thing in this book! I loved this discussion about feminism from a Nigerian woman's perspective, because Western feminism differs completely from what those women experience every day. I can't wait to read Chimamanda's full-length novels! I have yet to get my hands on one!
Lectura 'obligatoria'. Reseña próximamente
This essay is based on a TED talk with the same title and it encourages us not to be negatively influenced by the bad reputation the word “feminism“ has built and that we need to educate our children to understand the importance of gender equality.
As Adichie also says, it is not the same thing with men, they are not expected to learn how to please a woman.„We teach females that in relationships, compromise is what a woman is more likely to do.
I liked that Adichie also discusses the expectations society has for men and that they can also be harmful.
This is the published version of CNA's famous Tedx talk which I had put on my youtube 'watch later' list and never quite managed to get to in the end.It's so perfectly presented and written (albeit in a very simplistic manner with little to no token humor thrown in to engage a live audience) that I don't know how to review this except by saying I nodded my head vigorously to every logical inference Adichie drew from her own experiences and those of her family and acquaintances in Nigeria and the U.S. Even her anecdote about a friend named Louis who kept telling her, "I don't see what you mean by things being different and harder for women.
“Women’s rights have come a long way”; something we’ve all heard before. But we’ve got a long way to go, I think we all agree on that. No one person’s actions, thoughts, or words are going to end the oppression, if I may use that word. But we can all contribute something positive, something that creates a dialogue about change, something that becomes “another brick in the wall”. Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s essay is just that, but it’s a very big brick, and it’s truths are undeniable. Everyone should read this, regardless of their preconceived ideas on the subject.
LOVED THIS. Listening to Adichie read this little book to me was a treat. She’s so well-spoken and intelligent, I can’t help but love everything I’ve read by her so far!
على الرغم من أن المرأة العربية حققت مكاسب عديدة في الكثير من المجالات إلا أنها حتى الآن لم تأخذ حقوقها، المساوية للرجل، كاملة بحكم سطوة العقلية الذكورية في مجتمعاتنا.هذا الكتاب، الذي كان في الأصل محاضرة ألقتها الكاتبة في أحد مؤتمرات تيدكس، يسلط الضوء على معاناة المرأة في نيجيريا ولو قمنا بتغيير اسم نيجيريا ووضعنا محله اسم أية دولة عربية سنجد بأن وضع المرأة هو هو سواء كانت نيجيرية أو عربية مما يؤكد بأن قضايا المرأة تتشابه بشكل أو بآخر في جميع المجتمعات.في المرة القادمة التي أتعثر فيها بامرأة في تويتر تقول بأن النساء العربيات بخير سأرمي في وجهها هذا الكتاب، تمامًا كما سأطلب من أي خليجي ثري، يدعي بأن المال ليس مهما، أن يمنحني أمواله التي لا يحتاجها.
These women liked to tell my mother that she was setting women back 20 years and that she was being controlled by my father.
None of you guys ever got the pleasure of meeting my mother but I can tell you one thing..No One Controlled Donna Patton EVER!
My dad didn't force my mother to quit being a nurse and stay home.
In We Should All Be Feminist Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie simply asks that we take a look at how society effects gender dynamics.
I don't think so but it probably does to those women who looked down on my mother for staying home to raise her kids.
It’s a short book, took me around an hour and it is so worth it.
I recommend this book as a gateway to gender studies and feminism because it is very accessible, especially to those with no experience in reading/studying these subjects.
My mother is not a reader but she picked this up on my suggestion and loved it.— Patricia Elziefrom The Best Books We Read In January 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/02/01/riot-r...
I read an ebook but have every intention of collecting paperbacks to scatter everywhere that I go.— Annika Barranti Kleinfrom The Best Books We Read In December 2016: http://bookriot.com/2017/01/03/riot-r...
We make them feel as though by being born female they're already guilty of something.I can only talk about my own experience now as a young man about how it is in Germany, but what I had to learn so far was this: A lot of people have no idea of what the concept of feminism truly means, they think of it as something some weirdly-brained writers of bad self-help books must have invented in order to torture humans with their implausible beliefs (yes, yes, I did so myself for a long time).
Culture does not make people. People make culture.  It's a great introduction of Feminism. It's very simple and short. Everyone must read it!The facts in this book are mostly related to Nigeria. But still some of them are present in almost every country.  If we do something over and over again, it becomes normal. If we see the same thing over and over again, it becomes normal  I haven't watched its TED talk. I think I will now. :)28 January, 2018
"La cultura non fa le persone. Sono le persone che fanno la cultura. Se è vero che la piena umanità delle donne non fa parte della nostra cultura, allora possiamo e dobbiamo far sì che lo diventi"
(https://quarterly.co/products/literar...)A thousand times I have intended to get a copy of this essay, but always got distracted before following through.
Recently, I discovered this book was both influential and inspirational to Britt Bennett, author of ‘The Mothers.’ So, with her stamp of approval added to the overwhelmingly favorable reviews posted, I finally sat down and read through this award winning essay.
So, often I have lamented the lack of instruction our young men have in regards to proper behavior and treatment of women.
everyone needs to read this asap.
