https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23360135-the-dirty-dust
However, when I was about half way through the English translation of this novel about a village graveyard in Connemara during WWII, I opened the original Irish version of the book and the disclaimer (there's none in the English version) jumped out at me: Níl aithris sa leabhar seo ar aon duine dá bhfuil beo nó marbh, ná ar aon chill dá bhfuil ann.
It's the usual formula: that the novel is not modelled on any known persons, living or dead, but having already read half the book, the word 'dead' sounded like a huge joke - because the characters are just that: all dead.
A classic of the Irish language, and a lost modernist epic, a multitude of voices from beyond the grave narrate this foul-mouthed novel, led by the histrionic Caitriona Puadeen, keen to dispel gossip about her character from the longer-dead residents of the cemetery.
In the meantime, this blackly funny novel can be read for its wicked humour and sublime Irish banter by the plain-drinking masses, who may never see its like again.
It has since been proclaimed to be be one of the finest pieces of modern literature written in the Irish language and I have always meant to read it.
I hate reading in Irish.
HALLELUJAH (I know there's another translation available but this one seemed to appeal more to me).And what an interesting book this turned out to be.
Though it is now in plain English for all English speakers to understand, the turn of phrases are uniquely Irish and feel completely natural.
A very unique idea and style that I felt was very well translated by Titley, as its meaning is very difficult to interpret in Irish never mind in English.
At the same time this is part of the book's unique style yet I couldn't help but find it frustrating and unfocused at times.
I'll have to read the Irish original soon so I can compare both editions though, maybe it will give me some more insight into the work.
Overall it is a very well done and entertaining read and I am only ever delighted to see work being done to bridge the literary gap between English and Irish.
Хотя при этом он, очевидно, выплеснул из ванны целую кучу детишек и, говорят, на всем оставил свой собственный писательский опечаток — примерно так же, я подозреваю, Аксенов «переводил» Доктороу, хотя у Титли перевод явно добросовестнее.В итоге мы имеем две версии одного романа для разных целей: у двух чуваков — издание более академическое и образовательное, с обилием сносок (есть смешные: что в Ирландии, например, любая необработанная земля и глухомань называется «горой»; это не обязательно возвышение; там, как правило, гонят самогон); у Титли — «книжка на почитать».
I have to take his word for that as I’ve never come across any other book originally written in Irish, but certainly it’s an unusual and quite distinctive novel that feels very Irish to me.
I have to take his word for that as I’ve never come across any other book originally written in Irish, but certainly it’s an unusual and quite distinctive novel that feels very Irish to me.
Alan Titley published The Dirty Dust just a year ago, and it’s now in paperback, and this month, March 2016, we have Liam Mac Con Iomaire and Tim Robinson’s Graveyard Clay.
Bu romana (bence daha çok bir senaryoya benziyor) gerçekten çok heyecanla başladım.
Çünkü, 1940’lı yıllarda İrlanda’nın küçük bir yerleşim yerinde ölmüş bir grup insanın hayattayken şikayetçi oldukları bir sürü konuyu mezarlarında da dile getirmeleri ama aynı şeyleri devamlı tekrar etmeleri, üstelik bunu hiç bir edebi üslupla, üzerinde düşünülecek bir ifadeyle değil de, günlük dedikodu ve gevezeliklerle yapmaları çok sıkıcı geldi bana.Neden mi ?
Çünkü anlatılan hikayelerde bir orijinallik yok, hiç bir hikayede gelişme olmuyor, bir iki cümle ile öylece ortada kalıyor.
Ama hiçbiri sizi ne düşündürüyor, ne okumanıza bir anlam katıyor ne de merak uyandırıyor.
Petty squabbles amongst small-minded townsfolk repeated for eternity create an extremely bleak imagining of the afterlife. Sometimes funny but mostly an exhausting, plodding experience in spite of all the swear words. I felt bad for the French pilot who learned Irish only to engage with these bickering lamers.
Uzavřenost a bezvýchodnost komunity mrtvých, čekání na novinky ze světa „tam nahoře“, snaha najít alespoň chvilku klidu a únik před pokřikem ostatních, to lze aplikovat i na jiná místa, než je hřbitov.
Je složeno z interludií (meziher) a zaujalo mě v závěrečných poznámkách, že „uspořádání nejvíce připomíná hudební kompozici: interludia uvádí fanfára polnice, poté v různém pořadí následují sólové árie (monology hlavní postavy), duety (dialogy) i poněkud kakofonické sborové pasáže.“ Myslím, že to je opravdu tak.
Není to čtení na chvilku a možná by bylo dobré to přečíst ještě jednou, ale určitě to není ztracený čas.
As it turns out, the conversations of the dead is only very interesting for 100 pages or so.The story (or stories) are found in the dialogue so you have to work for it.
You must learn each speaker's style of speech or recall who discusses who/what.Anyway, I lost interest eventually because there isn't a whole lot of development in any of the stories.
We learn a lot about all the different characters but it's all who had more money, who inherited what, who married whom, and so on for the entirely of the book.
petty squabbles and town feuds dragged from terrestrial life into the afterlife of the 15-shilling cemetery. a unique narrative of voices that would probably work really well as a play, with lots of humor and culture and even irish history to be gleaned from these irritable deceased villagers. i'll remember it well, i twisted my ankle.
Thank God I finished it . I really wanted to like this novel but for the most part it was extremely boring. I really got tired of dead people still complaining about the the things they complained about when they were alive . Not a nice outlook about the afterlife and I don't believe there was a point to novel at all ...
The key things to know about this book, which was originally published in Irish in 1949, are explained by Alan Titley in his Translator's Introduction.
"Say the same things here as you said at home," says a woman in a neighboring plot, and Caitriona does (and so does everyone else) (6).
The graveyard has elections, and there's talk of starting a Rotary (with a hilarious proposed list of talks, with each speaker going on about his/her personal fixation), but mostly it's a free-for-all of conversation and argument.While I was reading this, I kept interrupting my boyfriend to tell him about various funny bits, and at one point he said the book sounded interesting but that he doubted he would read it.
Il libro più divertente (e sorprendente) dell'anno me l'hanno regalato dei morti (e sepolti) irlandesi che non stanno zitti neanche un secondo. Le dinamiche sono surreali, e sorrette da un'interessante meccanismo: la circolarità delle lamentele, dei pettegolezzi, del turpiloquio viene interrotta solo quando arrivano nuove notizie da aggiungere allo stream. Sembra che ci siano sempre più storie da raccontare.
this is an odd book to review in the sense that although i didn't enjoy it, there is a lot to like.the central conceit of the novel is excellent - the dead lie buried in the earth and chat and bicker as though they were still alive - but i'm not sure if it ever really went anywhere interesting beyond the initial humour in its concept.
it became simply an exploration of old-irish banter, which isn't awful, and possibly very interesting to people who aren't irish, but nothing more.
I've read so many reviews praising this book, and all along I wondered at what point was I going to be smacked so hard by it's awesomeness that I forget the pain of all the previous pages.Perhaps it's because it's the first time the English speaking world gets a peek at it, maybe it's because it's got a different format and interesting writing style (critics love that stuff).
But the fact is, if you don't want to read about annoying neighbours being annoying, this is not going to go well for you.I know, I know.
There's a deeper message, right?
Made up almost entirely of dialogue, this book takes place in an Irish graveyard where the dead still chatter away to one another.
When mean-spirited, chintzy Caitriona Paudeen is buried in the graveyard in a dirty winding-sheet, she's horrified to find herself amid all the people she couldn't stand above ground.
Meanwhile, the other members of the Fifteen Shilling Place repeat all their miseries and resentments rather than enjoying eternal peace.The dialogue is very funny, and there are running gags aplenty.
Highly recommended for lovers of Irish wit and savage put-downs.
I dipped in and out of this original edition of O'Cadhain's novel while reading the English translation.
I particularly enjoyed finding out what certain characters' names were in Irish - Tomás Taobh Istigh sounded better than 'Tomás Inside' as the translator renders the name - though they mean the same thing.
I was interested in the place names too - some of them are very beautiful.
Doire Lacha for example, which becomes the more awkward sounding Wood of the Lake in the translation.Once I'd read half the book in English, I was able to reread sections in Irish and understand most of what I was reading.
although i didn't like this one i think there's a lot to like, the fact that there's no narration and only dead people talking seemed to be just the thing for me, but i think it just goes on for waaay too long. that said, i'm glad this book exists.
Con 'Parole nella polvere' (pubblicato in Italia per la prima volta da Edizioni Lindau) Máirtín Ó Cadhain è riuscito a trasmettere l'anima della sua Irlanda del Novecento, attraverso l'affastellarsi di tante voci diverse. Voci che fanno l'unica cosa possibile nel loro stato, senza dubbio quella che sanno fare meglio: si raccontano.Leggi la recensione completa qui: http://illunedideilibri.it/parole-nel...
Whoa. From The New Yorker: "The Irish Novel That's So Good People Were Scared to Translate It." Yes please!
It was pretty fun to see everyone's character unfold via neighborhood gossip. Are people exaggerating or do they think more highly of themselves than their neighbors do?
I absolutely love this novel. I wish I'd read it sooner. There are so many aspects that are perfectly worked out; the premise is executed so simply and beautifully. It makes me want to learn more languages, and more about languages. The interplay of generations and cultures and dialects is incredible, I can't get over how well characters are established simply through dialogue. I hope I ever write something half this good.
All the characters in this novel are dead and buried, but they are not quiet.
Am I alive or dead?
They are all rabbiting on exactly the same way as they were above the ground!" A highly recommended novel, told only in dialogue.
The translation from Irish loses none of what I assume to be a ferocious wall of language and dialogue inherent to Cadhain's books (I do not speak Irish).At times I laughed aloud at the uproarious language.
Many times I had to put the book down because, unlike the characters, I needed everyone to just shut up a minute.A brilliant book.
Originally published in 1949, Máirtín Ó Cadhain’s notorious novel The Dirty Dust is widely considered to be a masterpiece of Irish literature.
Yet in the fifty-plus years since it arrived on the scene, shocking the sensibilities of many of the upstanding citizens of Ireland with its liberal use of crass and filthy words, no one has attempted to provide non-Irish speaking readers with an English language translation.
All that finally changes today however, thanks to the arrival of Alan Titley’s energetic take on the classic text from Yale University Press.From the very first sentence of the opening paragraph it’s clear that The Dirty Dust is not your ordinary novel.
Lovely, existential, difficult to follow, full of sad humor and folks who even in an afterlife that clearly proves otherwise continue to believe in one way or another in Catholic theology.
Very grateful this has been translated in my poor Anglo-American English, despite Cadhain's valiant efforts to keep the great work in Irish.
Am I not much better than the small folk in this cemetery who refused to expand their lives?
And the great question of translation lingered, what was I missing in not reading this in its native language, the language of my family?
I am sure I missed a few cultural references, but I was so enthralled with this book that I don't think I care!
Told entirely by conversation among the deceased, Cre na Cille is a hilarious rendering of life above ground told by those who deliver news as soon as they join them in their graves.
Will her despised sister join the ranks of the dead soon, as she wishes?
And as for her other archenemy, Toejam Nora, why is she suddenly so "cultured" here among the dead?
The Old Master's widow has married the Postman, and when the latter joins the graveyard residents, one could say all Hell breaks loose.
I really liked this. It's certainly modernist (the entire book is dialogue that weaves in and out of comprehension) and the characters aren't particularly likable. They are all dead and interred in the local graveyard, but they are no less petty and provincial. Old insults fester and new insults bloom throughout and watching the dead continue on in their profane, affronted, unproductive afterlife still somehow makes for a dark comic narrative that was an enjoyable read.
http://www.npr.org/2015/03/25/3921320...
The novel also reflects the life of those in remote rural areas of Ireland at the time and the hard struggle of survival.I discovered Graveyard Clay when reading reviews of Lincoln in the Bardo.
While both are set in graveyards and initially attribution of the speakers is a challenge, they are quite different books — both well worth reading.
