https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131791.The_Deer_Park
Flaws and ApplauseFor all its flaws (and they are both numerous and substantial), "The Deer Park" is still one of my favourite novels of the 1950's.It deals with two personal interests and obsessions: radical Left-wing politics in the United States from the 1930’s to the 1950’s (including the House Un-American Activities Committee) and Hollywood (the two of which coincided in the Hollywood Blacklist of 1947).I should also mention that it deals with the relationship between the sexes in as explicit a way as literature was permitted in 1955, when the novel was first published, even though it was rejected by just about every publisher in town because of obscenity and defamation concerns (some of which were dressed up as concerns about literary merit).One Fake-Irish, the Other EitelThe narrator is Sergius O’Shaugnessy, an orphan who despite his name comes from mongrel sailor blood: Welsh, English, Russian and Slovene, with perhaps a touch of Irish as an afterthought.
The thing that struck me the most about this book was how the human mind and actions react when living a lifestyle of an abundance of materialized pleasure, and how when there is nothing left to dream and fantasize about in a person's world, pain and suffering can actually come from trying to get meaning through a radical perception of love or, trying too hard to live in other words.
I read it a long time ago, it worked reasonably enough as a novel but there were way too many moments in which I felt stormin' norman's sweaty, heavy hands all over F Scott Fitzgerald's delicate and subversively limpid material.This is coming off the sagging failure of "Barbary Shore" and Norm's trying to talk himself out of his gloom, paranoia, and wife-shanking by trying to tell himself he can "do" Hollywood.
And Mailer's ending is basically a formula (his mind was way more infused with the instructions of his aeronautical engineering degree from Harvard than most people- including himself at this stage- really knew) for the kind of existential (that's right, I mean it, too) hijinks which would unfurl over the next decade.
An exquisite portrait of the relations between pride and desire. Also a great commentary on the artist's condition and a reference point for the jaded, the morally corrupt, the promiscuous and the unsure.
These folks are coping with the fallout from House Un-American Activities hearings (most significantly a character who seems to be modeled on Elia Kazan); with having too much money and time and no real moral compass to guide them as they dispense with both; with the need to be in control of their publicity and image while indulging in the worst behaviors.I suppose my biggest problem (among many) is that the characters never become more interesting.
Even from the perspective of ten years and Mailer's fourth novel, the reveling-in-obscenity An American Dream, this earlier book is weirdly prudish and judgmental.Finally, as is abundantly clear from much of Mailer's work but is especially foregrounded by this book: He doesn't understand women whatsoever and is unable to see them outside of the sexual roles he wants them to play.
It's quite rare that I don't finish a book.
Usually, once I start reading something, I have a kind of compulsive urge to finish it, no matter how bad or how dull.
The Deer Park, for me, is one such book.
The Deer Park is a sort of 1950s retelling of The Great Gatsby.
Our Gatsby is Charles Eitel, a wealthy screenwriter hoping to make a comeback after his career is destroyed by his unwillingness to cooperate with the Unamerican Activities Committee.The characters that populate this novel indulge in all sorts of hedonism.
While this book was almost considered obscene when it was published, I would say that it is quite mild according to our contemporary tastes. Despite its beautiful language, I found the plot and organization a bit shoddy.
Basically a boring book by a very talented writer. At the beginning there are all of these Nick Carraway-esque opinions which is great, but after that nothing much happens. People have sex, people get depressed, depressed people have sex, sex makes people less depressed, people sell out, sell-outs have sex, sell-outs bail on their friends. And that is pretty much the book. Plot need not count for everything, but if your characters are bland and there is no digression then all you have left is pretty writing. Sorry, Norman.
Ugh.
Since I spent the past week in Palm Springs, I felt like it was a perfect time to plow through this tumescent mess. Many other writers have captured Southern California perfectly and maybe Mailer thought he had for the people who read this when it came out in 1955. Even though it includes the occasional bon mot worth remembering (“Even now she was very patriotic and like most patriots she felt strongly and thought weakly”), I struggled to make it to the end if only to remind myself that Mailer is not a good fiction writer.
Sergius, an aspiring writer, is Mailer's mouthpiece - a self-proclaimed antagonist to the herd, much like Mailer himself.When coupled with the plotlessness and the lame, Hemingway-influenced ending (bullfighting in Mexico?), the lack of true characters makes for one slog of a read.As far as Mailer's career is concerned, The Deer Park led him to a realization that for the time being at least, he should give up fiction (the structural and perspectival problems in the novel are all too apparent) and focus on writing non-fiction.
Mailer completists (like me) will find a failure of a book that years later paid off because it led to some of the greatest writing of the 20th century.
Mailer's satiric take on the corruption and shallowness of post WWII Hollywood.
Set in a fictionalized Palm Springs in the late '40s, it tells a story (his?) of an Air Force pilot just out of the war who winds up in the town to try to write a book and to decide what he wants to do with his life.
He falls in with the Hollywood crowd that comes there frequently.
However, not much happens; none of the characters are likable; Mailer's writing style is a bit self-conscious and pretentious.
Felt like I needed to give at least one of Mailer's novels a try.
پارک گوزن، یک رمان کلیدی استعاری از پارکی ست که در واقع در منطقه ی هالیوود در پالم اسپرینگ، وجود دارد و خاصان هالیوود در آنجا به سرگرمی و استراحت می پردازند. قهرمان رمان، سرگیوس اوشاونسی، افسر تازه بازنشسته ی نیروی هوایی، که میل دارد نویسنده بشود، تباهی شرورانه ی اخلاقیات هالیوودی را مشاهده و تجربه می کند. عنوان کتاب از پارک گوزن ها، که لویی پانزدهم برای سرگرمی و لذت شخصی با زن هایش درست کرده بود، وام گرفته شده است. مطلبی کوتاه در مورد نورمن می لر، در جایی دیگرhttp://www.goodreads.com/author_blog_...
I really enjoyed this book for its realistic, gritty yet almost loving and longing portrait of post-WWII hollywood in all its glamour, hyprocrisy, and ability to create and consume dreams and lives. Each character is facing life changing choices, temptations, corruption, in its most seducing - the way they meet them, and how they play off each other assuming different roles at every juncture is what caught me in this book. Great read.
Keeping in the context that it was written in the mid-50s, the book is a fascinating curiosity for it's depiction of sex. Kind of like Peyton Place in Hollywood...with those red commie bastards. Great for any fans of Norman Mailer. You can see an author experimenting to find his voice. That's pretty much what the book is, an experiment.
I'm glad I read this, because now I will never, ever feel obligated to read anything by Norman Mailer ever again.
This was my first foray into Norman Mailer and I loved it so much that I am reading a second novel (An American Dream) next, which the last time this happened was several years ago when I discovered the work of Roxane Gay. Reading this was probably a little toxic for the soul, as the book does have a very unsentimental attitude towards people in show business, which itself surprising, I think that Mailer writes such gifted prose that you really want these people to do and to be better.
While I did very much enjoy this novel, the one major problem I have with it, which really doesn’t become an overbearing issue until the last fifty pages or so, is the fact that Mailer makes one of the characters the omnipotent narrator.
It’s my first Mailer, so I don’t know if the Fitzgerald influence can be felt in all his work, but being that Gatsby is my all-time favorite novel, it helped endear The Deer Park to me, despite any issues, ill-founded or not, I had with the narrative device.
Slogging the GemsMy first Mailer novel.
His reputation as a misogynist preceded him, but given the time and place of this novel it didn't detract for me.
I sense his portrait of Hollywood celebrity and the malaise and "sin" of the idle partiers at Desert D'or is nearly biography or even autobiography.
I will research a bit.He writes very well, but the pacing of this nearly entirely interior novel was a chore at times, a bit of a slog.
But without the sense of wonder or enthralling entanglement I have to cap review at three stars.
Prendi una serie di personaggi vagamenti ambigui, mettili in una sorta di lussuosa riserva isolata i
Don't look for a Hollywood expose' but Mailer's take on that atmosphere of pretense mixed with real life and real emotions set in a Desert suburb of a fictional LA called "The Capital. There are a few endearing characters that will stay with you for a long time.Don't look for a Hollywood expose' but Mailer's take on that atmosphere of pretense mixed with real life and real emotions set in a Desert suburb of a fictional LA called "The Capital. There are a few endearing characters that will stay with you for a long time.
This one was a little slow-going for me so it took me longer than usual to finish. I understand the criticisms of this book, particularly against the standard to which folks generally hold Mailer but I would also say that for it's time this book must have been a complete and utter scandal and rather daring. The story meanders at times but generally speaking, I am always reasonably invested in the main character's well-being (in as much as anyone is a main character here). Despite the valid criticisms leveled at this book, I still think it's a worthwhile read.
Some interesting themes explored such as McCarthyism, sexual exploitation in Hollywood is relevant etc but not as interesting as it thinks it is. Misanthropy is not necessarily insight. None of the characters really lived for me other than as unpleasant two dimensional people I'd avoid spending time with in the unlikely event we crossed paths. Feels like I spent too much time with them and Norman for now.
Great writing - there's even a section that has this meta thing where there's an aspiring Hemingway-esque writer and Mailer is writing in a Hemingway style. There aren't any real heroes. My take is that the theme of this book is how people handle the conflict between their idealistic self-image and the compromises they have to make to make it in the real world. One guy thinks of himself as an artist. Another thinks of himself as a complete cynic about humanity, to the extent that he doesn't think he should care about other people at all.
My introduction to Mailer and his writing. I loved this book as a young man and am planning to read it again. I wonder whether I'll be disappointed.
Hard for me to comment on a writer of Mailer’s stature. A reminder of 1950’s Hollywood and the politics of the House Unamerican Activities Committee.
That being said, I am not familiar enough with the work of Mailer to make such comment in this case, but it's certainly something that's worth bearing in mind, as this book is by no means terrible despite its flaws.The first thing I noted of critics, and i think this is a good place to begin, was the charge that there is no real story.
Mailer's third novel, The Deer Park, finds the author searching for a style suitable to his ambitions of being the literary genius who finally sets the world straight on matters of love, destiny, masculinity, sex, betrayal, all that good stuff.
Many great books were written him, most of them a brilliant species of journalistic novels, non fictions written in a narrative style that showed that history could be faithfully and heroically recounted like a good yarn.
As I said, Mailer was seeking a new style of prose and approach when The Deer Park appeared.
It is a good yarn, not a great one.
Thus, the action alternates between first person accounts of the narrator's thoughts and experiences and the actions and feelings of the other characters - including their sexual activities - as envisioned by Sergius.
And Sergius does manage to stir up a bit of sympathy for at least a few of the characters, especially movie director Charley Eitel - whose life and career is ravaged by his refusal to cooperate with the McCarthy commission - and the sexy, insecure dancer Elena.
And with the self-absorption characteristic of young men, Sergius imagines Eitel feels the same sense of connection to him.I find as I look back, I appreciate the artistry more than when I was reading.
I reread Norman Mailer’s, The Deer Park, his third novel and originally published in 1955.
Secondly, Mailer fought hard to keep portions of the book in publication despite the resistance of several publishers who found it pornographic.
Today, the book would be considered tame, with very little lewd language.
Despite this, Mailer manages to convey the loss of soul of several characters as they live the Hollywood life.
Mailer uses an epigraph by Andre Gide: Please do not understand me too quickly.
You will not understand these characters too quickly, but by the end of this book, you will know them as if they were real.
