https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93515.Peony
The crux of the story lies in the spiritual or ideological clash between the Chinese and the Jewish culture, and this clash is seen as a subtle force that simmers beneath the surface of differing customs and traditions, until it bubbles up and creates the ultimate barrier that keeps the lovers apart.Peony is a Chinese bondmaid sold in childhood to the Ezra household to serve their only son David.
Within the Ezra household, the husband is easy going and loves the Chinese way of life and is grateful for the kindness shown to him and his by the Chinese, while the wife is a strong-willed woman whose sole aim in life is to uphold the Jewish Law and traditions.
Once upon a time, there was a beautiful, gentle jewish boy, David, who lived in a beautiful house with a beautiful garden in the beautiful city Kaifeng in China.
His gentle father Ezra, a successful trader, was married with the most beautiful and rich jewish woman of Kaifeng.
His scheming mother wants David to marry the tender, beautiful, devout daughter of the Rabbi, Leah.
But David has set his eyes on the even more beautiful Kueilan, the daughter of Kung Chen, a gentle, rich Chinese trader, partner and friend of his father.
But the devout Leah, his mother and the Rabbi won't allow this.
There are two main ways Jews have disappeared from a given place: hatred and kindness. Hatred causes holocausts and inquisitions; kindness makes assimilation attractive.There are many many books about the former. This is one of the few good books I have read about the latter.
For those of you who only see the positive in what I have stated and thus do not understand why I gave the book three rather than four or five stars, please read messages thirteen and fourteen below.************* Look at the cover I have chosen.
She is the Chinese bondmaid about which the book is written.
It is also a book about the community of Jews that for centuries had lived in Kaifeng, China.
The narration I have given four stars.Personally, I prefer this over the other books I have read by Pearl S.
Peony is a bond servant (in effect a slave) who lives with the Ezra family, a wealthy Jewish trading family in Kaifeng.
Peony encourages David to ‘fall’ for Kueilan, the attractive daughter of a wealthy Chinese business man.
David is torn between Leah, whom he respects for her desire to propagate Jewish traditional values, and the sensuous gentile Kueilan.
Everything changes when Peony accompanies David, his wife, and children, on a long trip north to Peking.
On the one hand, David’s mother, the rabbi, and Leah wish to preserve their Jewish identity from becoming dissolved and diluted in the sea of the Chinese world that surrounds them.
No doubt in the way the novel depicts it: through intermarriage and assimilation.From a Jewish perspective, this book is an absolute tragedy.
The matron of the house, Madame Ezra, wants nothing more than to see her son David marry a Jewish woman and carry on the Jewish tradition, even in China.
As I said, from a Jewish perspective, this book is 100% tragic.
I don't know what a romantic would say to the ending, but overall, the book is worth reading just for the characters and the "moral chiaroscuro."
Buck never fail to remind me just what 'reading for pleasure' is really all about.
PEONY: A Novel of China—the story of the beautiful Chinese bondservant, raised and indentured, in the household of a noted, China-born, family of European Jews; who witnesses the fascinating closing days of the complete assimilation of the Kaifeng (China) Jewish community/culture—is another sterling example of the warmth, wisdom, and compelling character development of Ms. Buck's wonderful stories.
Recommendation: Read PEONY for the sheer joy of great storytelling, and for glimpses of little-known times and cultures.
Buck portrayed the 19th-century Jews of Kaifeng and how their community, which had existed for 1000 years, ultimately disappeared.I could not ignore that Buck was the daughter of Christian Missionaries, especially when she had the Jewish grandson who most resembled his devout great-grandmother saying [about Christians who wanted to use stones from the last synagogue to built their church], "They belonged to our religion, which has come to an end in this land, but their religion sprang from ours.
Did the author think European Jewry was coming to an end and want to compare this horrific demise to the gentler fate of Chinese Jews?
I thought it was too much of a love story and lost it's way by losing the Lost Tribe.The beautiful bondwoman Peony is in love with the handsome David who is love with an even-more-beautiful Chinese girl (who he has seen once) Keuilan.
As she ages, Peony becomes even more beautiful than the once even-more-beeautiful Keuilan and is the rock in the house as she runs the household, is wise, faithful and devoted.The best part of the book in with the Rabbi, his anguish of a declining community, lack of a successor and his debate with the even-more-beautiful Chinese girl's father on what is the Jewish God.
Based on history, Buck explores the assimilation of Jewish communities which had existed for hundreds of years in China.“Out of the dark and sullen bottom of a lake the lotus flowers bloomed upon its surface, and she would pluck the flowers.”A full immersion for the reader in the life and times of a Jewish remnant in China.
Those around her are blessed by the role she fashions, not following the accepted pattern of either her own people or the semi-assimilated Jews.“Is life happy or sad?” “Life is sad.
The Jewish matriarch of the story noted wryly that, in fact, the Jewish people had been "killed by kindness." In an ironic way, that was true because persecution had failed to eradicate the Jews ---but friendly assimilation effected that very thing in this Chinese colony.There was a very sad moment in the book that became the tipping point for the young man who was being torn by having to choose between the 2 cultures.
I'm still not sure to what extent was the author sympathizing with these issues, and I guess that's where my biggest discomfort lies.Peony is merely a vehicle for the reader to witness the decline and eventual dissolution of the Jewish community living in this province, a dissapereance that comes about by assimilation and intermarriage into the greater Chinese culture.
The ending is imminent, but it doesn't have to be so for us as well.I guess in the end I am just tired of stories where the Jewish characters are not observant and sometimes even ridicule their legacy.
I picked up this book since I knew the quality of Buck's writing, and was in the mood for another novel about China.
This is a good book for those who found Pearl S.
Buck to be an enthralling writer in The Good Earth, but who had a hard time liking the characters of that book.
Peony is a richly told story of the demise of Jews in Kaifeng in China.
It is a story of faith, identity, lovr and duty.
I kept thinking how well Ms. Buck portrayed both Jewish and Chinese sentiment without judgement.
She leaves it to the reader to form their own opinion.
In the end how you feel about Peony, depends on your own bias.
I'm still conflicted but I know she can't be the sole cause of the blame.
Another well written story of every day life in China.
The surprising twist is this relatively unknown aspect of Judaism in China.
Peony is a "bondwoman", having been sold to a Jewish family when she was 8, as a companion for their only child, David.
David's mother wants him to marry Leah, the beautiful and dutiful daughter of the Rabbi.
His father wants him to marry Keilein, the beautiful younger daugter of his business associate.
Peony, also quite beautiful, loves David, but knows he cannot marry her.
My only complaint in this book was that there was only one "bad" character, Aaron.
Otherwise, this is a wonderful character driven plot about China in the 1950s.
Her characters seemed sterotyped - the "sad jews" and the "happy & carefree natives" were primarily there to give a framework for long philosphical point of views - they did not seem like real people.
Buck is obviously a believer in assimiliation over tradition as the characters who hold to their traditions have sad, unhappy lives and those who embrace the local culture are happy.
Buck does stop short of accepting total assimiliation to the local culture in that she doesn't let one of her main characters, David, embrace the Chinese notion of having paramours in addition to a wife.
This should be required reading."A" is excellent and that's what this book truly is.
This was a great book that explored two diverse cultures mingling in love, work, family, religion, aging, power and secrets.
If you are Chinese or Jewish this is a "required reading"!
In the end, you'll learn that, today, we are a world of diverse peoples' who must work together lovingly and happily.
There is a great love story intertwined in this wonderful novel, too.
it was a great reminder of how the peoples of our past have blood-lined the present populations while we will, henceforth, be a part of future generations.
I learned so much.
I don't know why, but it never occured to me before that the displaced Jewish people would head east to China as well as west to Europe.
And I love how Buck takes the reader into China with information about customs and events with just enough information for understanding without losing the story line at all.Peony's story is tragic but beautiful.
She is not perfect, but you can see as she grows and her loves grows.
She is, I think, above reproach.
There were parts of the story that really pulled at my heart.
If the version I was reading was made from trees rather than electrodes, the pages would have been always moist.This is a tender story of a family living in China during the eighteenth or early nineteenth century.
It may not be a book for everyone but Ms. Buck surely allowed me, once again, to be part of the fictional family.
It was an emotional rollercoaster for us, the characters and me.
There were good and bad times and we pushed through it collectively.I would like to thank my GR friend, K, for recommending this book to me.
Had I been familiar with these historical facts, I would not have thought it likely that Pearl Buck would write a novel about a Jewish enclave in Kaifeng, since she herself is the daughter of Christian missionaries in China.
David's reaction to that demand drives the action of the rest of the novel.Many years later, Peony reflects on her life and the survival of Jewish blood in China:“Nothing is lost,” she repeated.
Buck reveals a cultural and character study in “Peony”.“Peony” encompasses the lovely prose which Buck is known for: strong, smooth, and crisp literary language with a Zen-like ambiance.
In comparison to Buck’s “Pavilion of Women” (which I adored); “Peony” is slightly slower in pace and weaker in its impact on the reader.
Understandably, the novel needs an antagonist and the culture clash is her purpose but absence of an explanation makes this conflict and characterization unbelievable and in turn makes the Jewish people seem like the negative roles in “Peony”.“Peony” becomes more engaging, less predictable, and filled with more thought-provoking philosophical statements as the story progresses.
As a foreign people in a fair and accepting society, each generation has found a way to hold on their religious traditions even as interrmarriages and business partnerships make life ever more "Chinese." As Peony grows within this home of strange gods and rituals, she has slowly fallen in love their their only son, David, whom she can clearly never marry.
For himself, David's struggle with his mother's religious zeal and his love of the Chinese people and their religion and culture creates a powerful contrast.
I felt sympathy for, especially, David's mother - who wasn't perfect but I get her soul-deep desires for her son.
The story takes place in Kaifeng, China around 1800 and centers on a Jewish family there.
The crux of the story is whether David, the son, will marry the rabbi's daughter as his mother wishes him to do, or will marry the daughter of his father's Chinese business partner.
The title character, Peony, is a servant who grew up with David and loves him, but knows she cannot marry him herself.
While I sympathized with her at the beginning, I found her character almost too saintly by the end.
Buck has given great insight into the Chinese culture, this time focusing on the Jewish community within China.
Throughout the novel Buck raised the interesting idea of dedication to religion versus asimilation to society.
I particularly appreciated when Peony and her life-long love (who she was unable to marry due to social position) determine to remain faithful to one another by staying virtuous even though Chinese society at the time would have accepted her as a concubine and would not have judged him for taking a woman other than his wife.
I expected more of "Peony" since it was written by a Nobel and Pulitzer winning author.
I find it interesting how foreign (western) authors depict the life, culture and philosophy of chinese/japanese/asian people, because it's a point of view that I can relate to.
There are some things I generally don't like about that kind of novels - to much prejudice and pathetics (descriptions), and that's exactly what I got with "Peony".
It started to annoy me right from the beginning, I was hoping it would get better but it just got worse.
The writing could be also better, but that's not the real "problem" of "Peony".
Having read “The Good Earth” as my first foray into Buck’s novels, everything else by her has had a tough climb to reach the pinnacle I’ve put “Earth” on.
This book does a very good job, but still doesn’t topple “Earth.” I liked Peony and David as characters, but I never really could find myself enjoying the story.
I wanted to know what happened next, but I wasn’t compelled to keep on reading it.
Halfway through the book, it seemed like the story lost steam and veered off into a completely different direction than it originally intended…leaving me wondering what the heck was going on.
I love "The Good Earth" and "Peony" was also a fascinating read. This is not easy-breezy reading and has some thought provoking themes. I even enjoyed the afterward- I had no idea about the history of Jewish settlements in China.
There is also Peony, a household servant who knows that a match with the scion of the family is impossible, but commits her life to serving the man she loves.Peony is both an active observer and a catalyst in the story, plotting to remove Leah from David's life because a "foreign" wife will never consider the possibility of a Chinese concubine for her husband.
Of course reading historical fiction is not learning history, and in reading this book set in the 1800's, I spotted a handful of actions that were not in keeping with Judaism as I know it, leaving me to wonder whether they were differences in practice among these Chinese Jews from those of my own Eastern European forebearers, or whether the author had missed some pieces in her research.
I had imagined that Pearl buck was writing this story having encountered these Jews during her life in China and didn't realize that she had not until I read the historical chapter at the end of the book.
Pearl Buck tells a fascinating story in Peony about the immigration of Jews to China and how they assimilated into the Chinese culture.
Her story begins as the assimilation is almost complete with only a few people still dreaming of returning to their homeland.
While the characters in the novel are fictional, the synagogue and many of the events did occur.Published in 1948, Peony still has a powerful message for us today as we continue to struggle with immigration.
Hunted, persecuted and murdered in much of the world, the Jews in China were welcomed and encouraged to intermarry with the Chinese.
