https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/409583.The_Wrinkle_in_Time_Quintet_Digest_Size_Boxed_Set
I had never read these books when I was a kid, but had noticed them on many "must read" lists. Good beginner books for science fiction, but not really my cup of tea.
I was intrigued as I’ve found very few Christian sci-fi books.
Goodreaders usually do not put these books within the Christian shelves as the main focus of these plots emphasizes good versus evil rather than evangelism.
Likewise, Christian readers should not dismiss these works because L’Engle inserts icons associated with pagans or new age such as Druids, unicorns, et al.L’Engle does an ok job of describing the setting of the story.
a great series of bookswrinkle in time: "an epic story of adventure, for the plain and the simple child..
i read it in fourth grade, and so is my daughter....
so we are re reading it together.
it teaches children about Propaganda and its miss use"Wind In the Door Way: How megan and Charles were able to save a magical world from distruction.Swiftly tilting planet: the story of Charles and how a poem allows him to learn a process to save the world.
Many waters : The twin brothers have an adventures that crosses time and allows them to help Noah save his people.
A Wrinkle in Time tells the tale of Meg Murry, her family and a trio of celestial beings who travel through time and space in order to rescue Meg’s scientist father, Charles, from evil forces on a distant planet.Although written in 1962, many themes remain relevant - teen insecurity, abandonment, the strength of love. A Wrinkle in Time gave us a science nerd heroine, an assumption that kids/ adolescents could understand intelligent writing, and a dip into fantasy/science fiction that was ahead of its time. -- Tammy Werron
Listened to this set on audiobooks downloaded from iTunes. Only reason I gave it 4 instead of 5 was not appreciating the prolific biblical overtures. I'd forgotten how much was in these books. Funny how the author who wrote the "the golden compass" got blasted for atheist stuff, but the children's books full of Christian mythology are left alone. Im open minded about all belief systems, so I'm not affected but in these books I felt it detracted rather than added to the beauty of the stories.
I started reading this because I thoight I was the only person in North America who didn't read A Wrinkle in Time as a child...but as soon as I began reading, I recognized it. Well, it's worth reading again.
Flight into fantasyIt was fun reading these books yet again. The word with its call to imagination is more powerful than even the must well crafted and spectacular film. (The Movie is fine but pales next to the book.). I enjoyed the Newbery acceptance speech at the end. These books help me remember the gift of being a child.
My goodness, it took me an immense amount of time to get through these five books! I wanted to re-read the first one since the film is coming out and I remembered enjoying it as a child.
See my individual book reviews for the Time Quintet. From a pop culture perspective I’m glad I finally read these books, but I probably won’t ever read them again. They’re very likely much more enjoyable as a kid than as an adult.
Unfortunately the other books in this "series" are a disappointment.A Wind in the Door is a worthy sequel, but the science is very shaky.
An Acceptable Time is even worse, with the emphasis on religion once again, and this time characters act oddly - why does the grandfather doubt that Polly can travel through time when he traveled to different planets and met aliens in the first book?The religious themes are odd, as they obviously represent the author's personal view.

I was hoping L'Engle had written additional books extending her original trilogy.
Instead it was a marketing decision to add two poor sellers to her trilogy to increase sales.
The last two books have nothing to do with the first three and although time is an element there were not written as part of the trilogy and don't hold up to the excellence of the first three books.
Stick with the original three they are delightful.
My rating is for the original three, and should not be considered a rating on the final two books.
A wrinkle in time was a good book because it had a lot of action and suspence.
It had a good plot and was hard to stop reading.A Wrinkle in time is about a girl named meg and a little boy named charles and there father who works for NASA was sent to a planet named Camozotz and he is trapped in a transparent colum.
One day Meg and Charles go for a walk then they meet a boy named calvin.
Then the meet the three W's.
Then they tessered to a hole bunch of planets.
Then they finaly go to camozotz.
I know I'm outside the target age group for this book, so my opinion should be taken with a grain of salt.
I've heard for YEARS how enthralling and spectacular this series is, how it was so imaginative and beautiful, etc.
I was unimpressed; to me the narrative is not nearly as complex as it was made out to be, and the metaphors and philosophy weren't so much deep, as heavy handed.
It was finely executed, and not a bad read, but the 5 books in the series, read after one another, become tedious because they are so formulaic.
As a series it is entertaining and perfectly harmless for children. For an adult it is a bit preachy with a major shift in tone from book three to book 4. Interesting characters populate the first three books, but after that they become much less interesting. Throughout the series L'Engle creates interesting worlds filled with wonder. Recommend for kids not so much for adults, but Wrinkle in Time is definitely worth a read.
The book was a little confusing at first, but forces you to use your imagination. Some parts just were not credible enough to be believable for an adult. I liked that the main character, who seems to be lacking so much in many areas, becomes the hero. I understand why the book is such a great kids story and I will probably use it in my classes.
The first three books are amazing. The fourth is, too, once you get over the character shift. The fifth is much better if you've read all of the Austin family books as well so you will know Polly and Zachary. Otherwise you won't care about the story.
I find the Time Quintet to be a wonderful, attention drawing series. At times, I felt as though the action was a little slow, but the results make up for it. I was sticking my face into these books and never coming out until I had read the book cover to cover. Definitely a bunch of good reads.
I will always be grateful to A Swiftly Tilting Planet to getting me in to L'Engle--I don't know what made me want to reread it suddenly, but then I had to do all five!
This set me on the path to my love of Urban sci-fi fantasy mystery/detective reading preferences. Will always look back fondly on the discovery of these timeless (pun intended) stories.
Enjoyed 1, struggled with 2, got lost with 3 and that was that.
Great concept and use of action, suspense, science, and adventure to create a story that captivates and keeps the reader engaged.
Great tie in to use universal themes to allow all readers to relate and identify with our characters and our story.
We build stronger connections and relationships with our original characters and meet new ones that become integral to the ongoing challenges our team faces.
Also wonderful use of science, Time, space, and adventure to aid in the story process.
Our story and our characters have shifted to a new time.
Many Waters - Book 4 of The Wrinkle in Time Quintet is an exciting addition to this excellent series!
hate, and the subtleness of self-centered sin and how it can tempt us away from the light and into the darkness.A Wind at the Door - again love is a central theme of this book with Meg learning that it is possible to love someone that you do not particularly like.
Evil is also a central theme here, with forces in the universe wanting nothing more than to reject and destroy God's creation and how they tempt us with things that seem good but in reality are not.A Swiftly Tilting Planet - this was, in my opinion, the weakest book in the series.
This is mainly on book 2 where several years later after the first time travel and it’s a huge gap between the characters educational life in middle to college years.I think book 2 got me confused to if the characters traveled in the past to understand their family history or to live in those histories that their relatives lived before their existence.Book 3 made me think the twins are at least in high school since they implied that their only eldest sister became a smart and beautiful scientist like their mother and some how they got to the time when Noah’s Arc existed and it became a bit Biblical.
To be clear, my 4 stars is for A Wrinkle in Time.
I picked it up around the time the movie came out because I had never read it before.
I like that Meg is imperfect, but that it ultimately helps her.
The pacing was a little slow for me, but I was so wrapped up in the world building and characters that I didn't mind.
A Wind in the Door was just too slow for me.
While I still cared for Meg's dilemma, ultimately I found myself wanting to do things rather than read so decided to drop it.
This is a lovely story collection for anyone who has ever felt like they don't quite fit in.
The first two books in the series have a much more science fiction feel than the later.
My youngest daughter enjoyed them, but she lost interest halfway through the third, and, frankly, the multiple time travel threads were difficult to follow.
The fourth and fifth books also cover time travel but with a twist of fantasy, each containing different coherent story lines.
Unless you're great at following quick changing ambiguous time periods, skip the third.
Pick up the series again with the fourth and fifth books, if you enjoy fantasy.
Engaging combination of science fiction and fantasy, with a dash of historical fiction thrown in too. The series follows multiple generations of a family, those who had many years ago lived on the land the family now inhabits, and several other groups in different spaces/times. The chronological storyline is a bit difficult to map, because time travel is so consistently a part of the plot and the books do not take place in chronological order, but the characters and story are wonderful regardless.
I wanted to read this book before I watched the movie coming out adapted from Madeleine L'Engle and her book, A Wrinkle in Time. Meg Murry, her brother Charles Wallace, and her friend Calvin are heading to adventure through time and space by exploring the fifth dimension-Tesseract. Mr. Murry, a scientist, has been trapped in this fifth dimension and the children are on a mission to find him. They encounter people (spirits?), worlds, and time that challenges the way think about our perspective of the Universe.
Enlightened As much as I read as a child, I don’t know how in the world did I miss these AMAZING books. I suppose I may not have been as enlightened by them as a child as much as I am as an adult! All five books in TWO months. I could not put them down! I cried and laughed and reflected and meditated on all the lessons. I’m so blessed having read these and they will definitely be in my daughter’s collection.
I recommend reading this quintet of L'Engle's stories and considering them as a whole, like the Narnia stories. I was expecting straight science fiction/fantasy stories. What I discovered were allegorical tales based on biblical themes. Classic tales of good versus evil, the struggle to make moral choices, and the insight that down through time, man has always embodied the best and worst behaviors. These stories make you think.
