https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25279165-the-swans-of-fifth-avenue
I found this book so saccharine, so gushing, so star struck that it was barely readable to me.
The story centers around Truman Capote and Babe Paley's friendship in the late 1950's/early 1960's.
It is terrible to envision the beautiful and stylish Babe Pauley rub her husband's feet and keeping her make-up on all night so he could never see her face bare.
Beauty." If you are interested in the lives of the rich and famous who fill their days with shopping, eating, caring for their bodies and faces, partying and not much else then this book could be the one for you.
While at the same time, Babe admitted, "And that I'll never be loved, truly." In her latest novel, Melanie Benjamin peeks behind the curtain of the famous friendships (and infamous exploits) of Truman Capote and his "Swans" -- the best-known New York socialites of the early and mid 1960's, including Babe Paley, Slim Keith and others.
It's a question as old as time -- why does any friend betray another?I knew nothing about the famous 1960's socialites, but their worries and concerns are the same the world over, particularly for women obsessed with beauty, who think they're going to be "traded in" for a newer model when their husbands get bored."Blond, brunette, tall, short, European or Californian, they were still the same; only the exteriors were different.
Babe Paley was known to me only as one of the beautiful people.Beyond the glittering world and the scandalous tales of high society, this is a story about a friendship, an unconventional love affair between Truman Capote and Babe Paley.
I love when an author finds a way to expose an understood reality, the lies we tell ourselves and others.In an interview, Melanie Benjamin remarked that she is ‘drawn to people whose public stories are fairly well known, but whose private lives seem to indicate that there was a lot more going on that we didn't know about or learn about.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ "How can we be friends if we don't gossip together? Just a little?" To quote the immortal words of one Clairee Belcher . . . .  And if you really don’t have anything nice to say, you should probably go sit by Truman Capote. If you take a peek at my bookshelves you probably would be a little shocked to see this being added to my to-read stack, let alone getting a 4 Star rating. You wouldn’t be wrong necessarily – I do need to give cred
And if you really don’t have anything nice to say, you should probably go sit by Truman Capote.
If you take a peek at my bookshelves you probably would be a little shocked to see this being added to my to-read stack, let alone getting a 4 Star rating.
Buuuuuuuuut, here’s a little confession: I’m kind of obsessed with stuff like this.
I’ve also decided that presented the opportunity I’d like to come back as one of these marvelous rich bitches in my next life.
I’ve done the poor thing, so now it’s time to see how the other half lives.
#nomnomRecommended to: Bitchy queens like myself.
I have always been fascinated with this era; New York in the 60s; the fashion, the art, and the people....and the story of Babe and Truman.
(I may have even teased my hair a little while reading:)The Swans of Fifth Avenue is so well written and intriguing, especially knowing much of it is based on real facts.
It's an unusual story about a love between two so seemingly different people who are, at the core, so alike; two "lonely, damaged souls...so vulnerable and naked in every way that matter." (one of the last lines in the book that described the relationship between Babe Paley and Truman Capote perfectly.)
I just couldn't get past the hammy writing.If you are looking for something similar in topic, allow me to recommend Dominick Dunne - "The Two Mrs. Grenvilles" (tells the story of Ann Woodward, a character in "Swans of Fifth Avenue"), "An Inconvenient Woman," and "People Like Us." Several of these books have a thinly disguised Truman Capote character.
His books are great fun to read and have really good writing.
Dunne is the brother of John Gregory Dunne and brother-in-law to Joan Didion, so the writing genes in that family pool are great ones!
So if even half of what the author reveals about Truman Capote's inability to keep a secret-- his seemingly psychological need for gossip-- is true, then Truman would absolutely love this book.
Filled with tales about Truman himself and his beloved swans, the society women who were his best friends, this book is a delicious, delectable foray into their dirty little secrets.
Maybe with Babe he struck gold, but then he risked even that.I was quite taken with the first half of this book, but in the second half I felt the portrayal of Truman's personality gradually enervated the enjoyment factor.
I was really looking forward to this book since I thoroughly enjoyed Ms. Benjamin’s books, “The Aviator’s Wife” and “Mrs. Tom Thumb”.
Neither my mom nor I ever really followed any of the rich and fabulous but that was all the more reason why I really enjoyed this novel.The story begins at the end and is told backwards in time.
I had never heard of the “swans” of this era but enjoyed their stories and their relationships.
It was a perfect vacation read.I thoroughly enjoyed this book and thank NetGalley and the publisher for this ARC in exchange for an honest review.
I listened to the audiobook narration by Cassandra Campbell and Paul Boehmer.
Both did an excellent job at mimicking Truman Capote’s drawl, lisp and voice.
Before reading the book I knew very little about the central characters: Truman Capote, Babe Cushing Mortimer Paley and her husband William S.
Of course, if you want to know about Capote, this is another reason to read the book.
This is one of those books that you finish wondering if it wouldn’t have been more pleasant to not know the truth.
You learn about why Babe and Truman Capote became such close friends.
The fictional elements ring true.
The Swans of Fifth Avenue jumps around in time, opening with the aged "swans" gathering in the infamous restaurant to strategize after Capote's scandalous story comes out, and Melanie Benjamin also takes us through Capote's rise and fall in New York society.
Melanie Benjamin doesn't bother to do this, possibly because the proverbial cat is already out of the bag, thanks to Capote's original story)If you view literature about the Secret Lives of Rich People as a spectrum, The Swans of Fifth Avenue would be placed closer to Gossip Girl than The Age of Innocence.
Ultimately I didn't love, or even like, a lot of the characters and that is a testimony to Melanie Benjamin's talent in breathing life into exquisitely rounded and flawed characters.At the heart of this gossipy fictionalized journal about real people is the obsessive adoration, between Babe and her dearly loved and openly gay Truman, and the question of whether he misuses his access into her world to expose and betray her and the Swans.Babe and Truman’s relationship reads like the heart-to-heart connection of bestie soulmates—a passionate love affair minus the sex.
Success also was found in marriage to the "right" people, the heirs of fortunes made in the 1800's, the descendants of Peter Stuyvesant who first settled New York, the wealthy relations of the Gilded Age of America who danced at Mary Astor's balls or whose lineage could be traced to those American debutantes who funded crumbling British gentry's estates through marriage in the early 1900’s.
But it was Babe Paley, daughter of Boston Brahmin stock Dr. Harvey Cushing, famed neurosurgeon and wife of William Paley, founder of CBS TV, whom was considered to be "perfect" by Truman Capote, in the close friendship with her and the others where he deemed them "the swans".
3 Everything Is Not As It Seems Stars...They say the rich are different... But in the end they lash out and hurt one another just like everyone else...Their tools to inflict pain maybe isolation and cutting gossip... but it hurts just the same.This is an interesting fiction based on the real "beautiful people of an era" long past. It all seemed so glamorous but up close and personal... not so much. A gifted copy provided by Random House Publishing Group-Ballantine via NetGalley for an honest review. For more Reviews, Free E-books and Giveaways
I was very young when I first heard the stories of the fabulous fashion icon, Babe Paley and her fairy tale marriage to the head of CBS, William Paley.
Babe trusted Capote the most, he seemed to love her the most dearly, and she was, of course, the most hurt by his depiction of her, her marriage, her deepest secrets.The book is a fascinating, delightful read.
I was least comfortable with the italicized portions at the beginning and end, with its semi-lyrical, almost fairy tale descriptions of the swans.
I couldn't put it down, it was like being inside the events I'd read about.
It's well written but I guess it bothered me a little that it's about real people and I didn't know if the events in the book really happened or not.
I guess that's the way historical novels are.
I know quite a bit about Truman Capote having read In Cold Blood and watched both films about him.
And there's his relationship with Harper Lee who wrote the classic To Kill a Mockingbird, and the famous film Breakfast at Tiffany's based on Capotes novel.
But I don't know anything about the so called "swans" in this book other than that they were actual people.
This is my second book by Melanie Benjamin and like the other, I absolutely loved it!
I never knew about his swans and the book that he wrote about them.What I loved most about this book was googling those women and seeing their images.
It was an ecstatic, slow and moving journey to the top and a short, crashing journey to the bottom.The book was an absolute gem even without the characters being famous, it would have been a great story.
I loved this book!
But, in the end, fast fame, coupled with a nasty and cutting side to Truman’s personality, that existed all along, brewing just beneath the surface, caused the house of cards to collapse spectacularly, and when it did, it took Truman by surprise, having grossly underestimated his swans, and gave me a look at Babe Paley, more than any other character, that left me feeling bereft on her behalf, as her immense sorrow and loneliness was palpable, making me furious at Truman and heartbroken for them both, at the same time.
He admired all of his swans, but the one who captured his head and heart were in some ways, the loveliest of all.However, in 1975, the dear friends and Manhattan socialites discover the literary lion Truman Capote has betrayed them, revealing their dirtiest secrets, to the world in a story published to great fanfare in Esquire.The latest issue had hit the stands, the cover profile picture of a fat and pasty-looking Truman Capote, the headline trumpeting the acclaimed author of, In Cold Blood’s newest, hotly anticipated short story.
This book focuses on Truman Capote's relationship with Babe Paley, a socialite and her friends Slim, CZ, Gloria and Pamela known as the ''Swans" of the 1950's.
Babe is married but begins a friendship with Truman.
Truman loves Babe's lifestyle as much as he loves the women around her, he seems to be completely enthralled with their way of life.
Eventually as the book moves on Truman will betray his friends as he lets their secrets be known to the world.
Such delightful fun, this book fictionalizes the relationships between Truman Capote and his swans, specifically his chief champion Babe Paley - both Truman and Babe are more human and complicated than they first appear and all serves to make the book more than just fluff, but also a very real story which made me want to learn more about both protagonists, particularly Paley, who seemed to have everything. Well worth reading for those interested in the subject matter.
I never believed he wrote any part of Mockingbird, but I do wonder if she wrote large parts of “In Cold Blood.” I have read many of his short stories and articles including “La Cote Basque 1965”.
The book alternates between just after “La Cote Basque 1965” was published by Esquire and when he and his Swans were the best of friends and the “it” crowd.
Gossip and betrayal are the fundamentals of this novel.
Set in the 1950's, Hollywood glamour, the super elite rich of New York, gossip, scandal and betrayal.
Babe Paley meets and brings Truman Capote into her inner circle of the spoiled elite, which he referred to as "the Swans".
This book brings the best and worse out in Capote, as it relates how he spoiled and catered to his Swans, and then how he betrayed them.
Not a bad novel by any means, but not quite up to the speed of her previous books, in my opinion.
I’ve long been fascinated by the brilliant mind of Truman Capote, both through his published literary work and through his personal appearances.
When I first heard of this book, I was intrigued, though, especially as I wasn’t very familiar with the scandal associated with his short story, “La Cote Basque 1965”.I was a bit put off at the beginning with Truman constantly falling all over the “swans” (socialites) and constantly telling them how beautiful they were.
The author did a good job of portraying these real people and their privileged lives and the price they sometimes paid for it.
WHAT PRICE NARCISSISM?“Truman enjoyed himself more than anyone she knew; he luxuriated in his success, did not attempt false modesty, did not attribute it to others, or to luck, or to anything but his own talent.” I was both seduced and enthralled reading Melanie Benjamin’s marvelous novelization of New York’s narcissistic ‘high society,’ of the 1950s: The Swans of Fifth Avenue.
Only more so.But it is the deep connection between the exquisitely perfect, deeply flawed, main characters—Truman Capote and Babe Paley—that move you the most; and the exquisite characterizations and storytelling of Melanie Benjamin that make this novel so hard to put down.
The only thing worse than reading a bookclub selection that is TOTALLY COUNTER to one's personal values and moral compass - is being the person who recommended it in the first place!
Oh yes, I must confess, it was I who subjected my bookclub to this narcissistic, foul mouthed, moral debauchery tale.
I only hope they will graciously forgive me for torturing them so.
Actually, I know they will be gracious.
And a few members might actually have liked it.
No hard feelings, I hope.TWO ** Not My Cup of Tea, by a New York Mile ** STARS
This book was provided to me free from Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.Why do I keep getting accepted for the worst Netgalley books? Oh right, because they won't approve me for the ones that are actually good. Yet again I abandoned one partway through. The premise of this book sounded promising. I've read a couple of Truman Capote books and I'd love a fictional account of the man's life. Unfortunately, Melanie Benjamin wrote what seemed like a childish Truman Capote fanfic. She's probably read Breakfast at Tiffany's one too many times.Taking a break from Netgalley for a while...
One of the best books I've read in years! If you love deeply flawed characters, historical fiction, glamour, fashion, Manhattan, and the white-gloved class of a society bygone, you'll devour this book!
Paley's adoration of Truman may or may not have been as intense - but I do believe it was real.
Capote was like a playtoy for the swans but he played them even better.
Think of their serial marriages as changing jobs.
When I did marry and found my own pedestrian name in the Social Register of 1966 (whilst on the john) I thought I would lose my mind.
Every book; every story.
But flawed - like his swans and so needy.
Gossip is lots of fun but it can turn quickly to venom; as it did for Truman.
Digital audio book read by Cassandra Campbell and Paul Boehmer.Benjamin turns her attention to New York City’s social elite in the 1950s and 1960s.
Then Truman Capote became “best friends” with Babe Paley, the leader of this group of women whom Capote quickly dubbed his “swans.” He lunched with them, attended their cocktail parties, vacationed at their summer homes or on their yachts, entertained them with his outlandish gossip and listened attentively to the stories they shared.
I vaguely knew some of the story, but not any of the details (I was just a child, but I remember seeing magazine coverage of the Black and White ball).
Beneath the beautiful facades of the beautiful people (about whom I knew so little) was deep loneliness and a hunger for love.
At first it was a fun gossipy read.
However when the author described the voracious Bill Paley (an ultimate outsider) realizing that radio was an antidote to people's loneliness (creating CBS) I felt there was something deeper going on.
To this day social media gives us the same sense of connection and yet the same haunting sense of alone-ness.
Each character was a beautiful person, but love and connection was elusive.
I truly enjoyed this read.
