https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/381489.Private
Reading this book was mild torture.The protagonist Reed Brennan is extremely flawed and one-dimensional.
She truly has no redeeming qualities, interests or goals.
Readers learn that she hates her home life and that she wants to become a Billings Girl, an elite group of 3rd and 4th year students who live in a special dorm.
Apparently, this happens in book two, three, or four in the series.
But, "Private" lacks the humor of "Mean Girls," the darkness of "Heathers," the steamy drama of "Cruel Intentions," and the fun of "Clueless." Kate Brian failed to use her imagination.
I have to say that this is book different in some aspect because instead of whining and whinging about a boy she's doing that with the Billings Girls.
They're making fun of her and ordering her around and she's like "it's fine because I want to be accepted" She lost the shred of self-respect she had left when she did that.
After what she saw Noelle do to Kiran she wanted to be apart of Billings!!!!
I wanted to die just to escape from reading the book!
DO NOT READ THIS BOOK UNLESS YOU WOULD LIKE TO GET TORTURED.Never, EVER, EVER in my life have a read such a naive character! Reed Brennan, the main character (our point of view), is bitchy, annoying, shallow,and fu*king  DESPERATE. Why? Because throughout the book ALL Reed whined about was how she wanted to be one of those plastic barbie dolls.Someone please blow my brains out.227 pages, 227 PAGES. Can someone kindly explain to me how this story (or SERIES) got published?There was no sign of gro
Reed Brennan, the main character (our point of view), is bitchy, annoying, shallow,and fu*king 
Can someone kindly explain to me how this story (or SERIES) got published?There was no sign of growth that Reed had gotten to her senses, the fact that she used Thomas around to get to the Billings girls, or that she even gave a f*ck about her other friends, Constance and Missy.WHAT.
So okay, the first time you said it, it was cool.
But WHEN YOU SAY IT AT LEAST FIVE TIMES, IT'S NOT COOL, IT'S NOT CHILL, IT'S FU*KING ANNOYING.Bullshi*.
This was quite a slow contemporary story about a girl starting at a new private boarding school.Reed was an okay character, but I didn’t really get where her obsession with the ‘Billings Girls’ came from!
One minute she was just starting a new school, and the next she just couldn’t get over her infatuation with these mean girls.The storyline in this was about Reed starting at a new school, and wanting to be in a clique of girls called the ‘Billings Girls’ who lived in a specific house on campus.
We also got a little bit of romance, but mostly the story was about the Billings Girls getting Reed to do random things for them, including stealing tests!
I'm in the process of rereading all my old favorite books from high school and I am so amused. This wasn't particularly great but this whole series is BOOK CRACK. It's appealing in the same way as the show PLL is. I just can't stop. If you want something super quick and scandalous, this is it.
I started reading this series when I was in high school, and my oh my was I HOOKED.
It’s the story we all know and love, a scholarship girl comes to a prestigious academy and chases after the rich and popular preps that inhabit it…and don’t forget the scandals!
Reed Brennan has just been accepted at Easton Academy on scholarship, and the chance to get away from her family couldn’t have come sooner.
Coming from Pennsylvania and from a family that just barely makes it financially, Reed is about to enter a world where money and power is everything.
I also managed to read up to 10 books of the Sweet Valley High series by Francine Pascal (stopping finally when it felt repetitive), marveling at how easy and relatable they were to read.
She meets Constance, her blabbering roommate, and with her, the Billboard Girls.
Everything was just about the Billboard girls and how cool they were (for reasons beyond me) and in the whole fuss, Reed just muted into the background.○▪ Character development was zero.
I’d falsely hoped that as the story progressed, Reed would pull herself up, grow a bit of confidence.
It was a total waste of time.
Sounds great, right?
But she has no interests except for flirting with a hot guy who she just happens to meet on the first day and ogling a school clique, the Billings Girls.
These Billings Girls, they're so glamorous and enigmatic.
Reed would do anything to be "friends" with these girls.
They're so AWESOME, who wants to have relationships with all these other boring girls that surround Reed.
On top of this, she's having a hard time with homework.
Oh well, things will work out once she's part of the infamous Billings girls ...
Right?
This is by no means my kind of book.
It's a blatant girly book, and it screams Gossip Girls.
I got it as a present last year and just got around to picking it up- wanting a light read.It basically features 16 year old Reed, who moves away from her dysfunctional family to a posh, private school on a partial scholarship.
I thought Reed was very likable (though she could do with not changing her mind so often) and the plot kept me wanting to read more.
A summary of Private, for those who probably have more interesting things to do with their lives than read books like this:Reed Brennan: Oh look, my new school WAIT WHAT WHO ARE THOSE GIRLS THEY'RE SO COOL WHO ARE THEYThey're the BILLINGS GIRLS I LOVE THEM I NEED TO BE FRIENDS WITH THEMI NEEDTO BEFRIENDSWITH THEBILLINGSGIRLSI just can't go about my life without thinking about THE BILLINGS GIRLS I LOVE THEM WHY WON'T THEY BEFRIEND ME THEY'RE SO COOL I LOVE THEMBut wait- they're doing some really crappy stuff to me and I've now lost my old friends thanks to my slightly stalkerish obsession with them - do I really want to be friends with the Billings Girls?OF COURSE I DO I LOVE THEM THEY'RE THE BEST MY WHOLE LIFE CENTRES AROUND THEM I LOVE THEM
*GASP*
There were quite a few things that I didn’t like.
For example, throughout almost the whole story Noelle calls Reed “glass-licker”, and it rubbed me the wrong way.
I think Reed wanted the perfect life, and felt like The Billings Girls had it.
I think there’s a lot more to her character that hasn’t been revealed in the first book.
I think I’ll read the next one and see were the story goes.As for secrets…not sure about that.
The only secret Reed discovers become common knowledge within a couple chapters.
Maybe it’s hinting and future things she discovers.
Stupid, immature, boring, repetitive and did I mention totally AWFUL?Anyone with a healthy, well-functioning brain would read this book and discard the whole series right away but I had actually made up my mind beforehand that whatever happens, I'd finish all 14 books no matter what.
I certainly do.Soooo… The story is - Reed Brennan, just a middle-class girl who gets admission to a highly prestigious Easton Academy through scholarship, where mostly kids who are ridiculously loaded go to.
Girls who are good at everything- studies, sports, bitching, plotting, shopping, partying..you name it are admitted to this special house from where a person can get a direct ticket to any Ivy League school.
This book is about a 15-year-old girl named Reed Brennan.
She has never seen any group of girls they are so rich.
But also there is a GUY… read the book to find out moreI could make a text to self connection because I remember when I go to a new school and see a group of girls already formed before I got there I would feel like I had to me in the most important and popular group there is.
If you like romance novel of a book that has mean girls in it that you should totally read this book.
The only reason that I finished this book is to see if she would ever stand up to her abusive boyfriend and the awful Billings girls, or distance herself from them.
This book sends an unhealthy message to teen girls because Reed goes back to a boyfriend who abuses her physically and emotionally, as well as begging for friendship from girls who taunt her, humiliate her, and call her names.
The issues of girl bullies and abusive boyfriends are important ones to address with teens, but this book deals with the issues in a very unhealthy way.Reviewed for: http://inthehammockblog.blogspot.com/
light and quick, it's easy to slide right into Reed's life as she works her away around a new school - a new boarding school that is!
- and around the ins and outs of friendship, love and trying to keep her grades up.It's very light so it doens't go in to too much detail about boarding school life.
This is Reed's sophmore year and the first time she's away from her parents 24/7.
There's the hot bad boy Thomas that she bumps into on day one.
And Thomas....I'm torn between feeling bad for him and agreeing with Noelle's assessment that he's danger!
Since my friends and I had planned on going to the beach together, I decided to read it yesterday while working on my tan.
Private was the perfect book to read while surrounded by noisy beach goers and my talkative friends, because it did not require a great deal of concentration.
Although I would generally recommend a book with more substance and not really my type of book, Private is the perfect quick and easy read for sun bathing on the beach and I do plan on reading the next book in the series.
Overall Thoughts I didn't know a thing about this series going into it.
This series is definitely not realistic and is pretty dramatic lol , but it's lots of fun and it was the first time I'd ever read anything like this before.
It went places I would of never thought.
I know it looks super cheesy, and maybe it is to an extent lol, but the story is pretty good actually and kept me interested.
There are a lot of books in this series but it's so easy to read through and very enjoyable.
Check this series out!Until Next Time,Emerald BookWorm
For example, when she gets called down to the office because her grades are bad (and since she’s at the boarding school based on a scholarship), and Ms. Naylor tells her that she wil be “put on academic probation” (124), instead of feeling like Reed had deserved it, we all wish she would pull her act together.
But then it’s still a cliff hanger because it makes us wonder what is going to happen wen she becomes a Billings Girl.
I know that you are ashamed of what you used to be (and pretty much still are), but that is no excuse.
XOXO, EmilySo if all you readers out there put the Private series in the same category as books like The Clique, or A-List, I think you pretty much hit the nail on the head.
Actually, Private was slightly reminiscent of Ally Carter's I'd Tell You I Love You, But Then I'd Have to Kill You. And in my mind, that is a HUGE compliment.When it comes to characters, I felt like Reed was not very complex at all.
They weren't your obnoxious popular girls.
I was not too sure about it since it is a 'boarding school' plotline, but I was pleasantly surprised with the story and really liked it.In this book you have Reed Brennan who finds her scholarship to Easton, a private school, as a means of running away from her normal everyday life, but what she finds here is far more than she bargained for.
I have never read a book quite like this as I don't normally think of stories like this interesting, but I found it to be very engaging.
I avoided this series for a long time, and upon actually reading it, I don't know why.
I read the fifth book, loved it, and immediately went to the library to check out all the others.
I would definitely recommend reading them in order -- the plot is continuous through the first four and then (I'm assuming as I haven't read yet) through the second four, and there's not a lot of rehash of "the story so far" so it will all make more sense to read in order.While this is indeed yet another mean-girls-in-boarding-school series, it's done better than many others.
The feel of the book is just odd.Not sure if it's odd in a good way or bad yet.The way it ended I have to see what is happening in book 2 and see if it gives anything more away to what type of book this is.Reed is a girl wanting to flee from her home life.
Not sure if this is a good thing or bad but right now she is nothing more then their lackey and is their errand girl and she is asked to do stuff that could send her back home to her life she wanted to get away from.I have to see what happens in book 2 because how it left off you just have to know.
Hmm. Ok.
So I went into this book (for a second time) remembering absolutely nothing about this book.
Keep in mind, I’d only read this book a year previous, so I should’ve remembered it.
It was decent, but nothing to write home about.
Although I am going to continue on with the series...
I’m just hoping for some MAJOR character development from Reed.
As of now, her character is WAY too dependent on other people for her happiness.
I’d like to think of myself as a strong and independent female, so I expect the same from the main character that I read.
Thoughts Had: Walked right into this shit ladyConclusionContinuing the Series: Why notRecommending: NoShort Review: Oh girls can just be complete bitches.
(Roosevelt only served 3 terms people!) She complains right away about how she sucks at making friends, and opts to stay in her room the first night, then later on bitches about how she is being ignored by everyone, really?
She tries to be friends with the cool kids and they use her as a waitress, you think that would make her just walk away but nah, she strives even harder to win them over.
I read these books way back in middle school and they have withstood the test of time!
I absolutely love the Billings girls and Reed.
Even the Billings Girls themselves are rather complex, and I can't wait to see how they unfold throughout the series.
This book is full as much intrigue as it is teenage angst - where is Thomas?
What really happened with the ousted Billings Girl?
It's just a cool mystery wrapped in boarding school drama.
And this book has such a diverse cast, which was actually pretty ahead of its time imo, since it's something we're still fighting with.
Boarding schools are one of my favourite tropes. I liked the book, the story flows really nicely and the 200 pages do not seem 200 but more like one big Chapter One. I’m definitely hooked and I’ll read the rest of the Private series. ...I think my rating is kind of misleading. Truth is, this is light-hearted and perfect for me now.
It’s been forever since I read this series and I’m excited to read them again, even though I know what’s going to happen.
These books are quite short, yet pack a punch.
Kate Brian is a succinct writer - giving just enough description to tell the story, but not bog you down in details.
The characters are complex and feel realistic.
There’s action, romance, moral dilemmas, and of course plenty of secrets.
I’m a sucker for boarding school books, and this is probably my favorite boarding school series.
It’s similar to Pretty Little Liars, but I think I like this series more.
Now that she’s at Easton, she’s realizing she has missed out on a major part of being a teenage girl.The Billings Girls take an interest in Reed as well, and before Reed knows it, she has become part of their group (well on the peripheral).
As Reed struggles to belong to their group and do what’s right, she begins to wonder if their friendship (if indeed it is friendship) is worth it.Meanwhile, her relationship with Thomas develops and soon they become a couple.
Will Reed be the next Billings Girl?I really liked this book!
Find this review, plus more, on my blog: Booklikes OR Blogger Basic InfoFormat: Audio Pages/Length: 6hrsGenre: Young AdultReason For Reading: Buddy ReadAt A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: Obsession Cliff Hanger: NoTriggers: n/aRating: 1.5 starsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  5Plot: 4Characters: 2World Building: 5Flow:  5Series Congruity: n/aWriting: 5Ending: 5Total: 3In DepthBest Part: It was short.
Worst Part: Fuckboys everywhereThoughts Had: You are dumb.ConclusionContinuing the Series: EhRecommending: NoShort Review: This book, what can i even say nice about it, it was short?
For starters, the love interest, hello fuckboy, hello i just want someone to fuck and this girl looks like someone who won't tell me now.
I was even more intrigued when I found out that there are more than 14 books in this series.I admit that I had starting thinking that this first book was slightly similar to mean girls what with the group of girls that fascinates the main character, Reed.
She eventually meets them and they are adorned the name of 'The Billings Girls.' Reed is affectionately given the name of 'glass-licker,' because she was caught observing them.Reed also meets an attractive boy.
All within this, things grow awkward.I admit, The last part of this book was slightly predictable, but not completely.
