https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51113.The_Samurai_s_Garden
This novel very much focuses on Japanese culture in 1930’s rural Japan.
So the father inherited a house with a caretaker in this rural seafront Japanese village.
While in the village he hears of the war only from a distance -- from letters from friends and family and from occasional radio broadcast that the servant/caretaker immediately turns off when he hears the young man approaching.
He also learns by letter from his mother of his father’s on-going affair with a Japanese woman.
The boy also has a puppy love romance with a young Japanese woman whose father is fiercely anti-Chinese, so you can guess how that goes.
His father in turn suggests that Stephen should spend some time in his late grandfather's house in the village of Tarumi where the caretaker Matsu could look after him.
Initially Stephen feels very lonely and isolated as the capable Matsu is a man of very few words.
Stephen relates well to older people and is willing to listen to their stories.Although Stephen is twenty at the start of his journey he is quite immature, and he learns quite a few of life's lessons whilst in Japan.
As he comes to grips with his life in Japan he learns to love his surroundings and the people with whom he associates.
(And then there is a love story too.) I think beauty is very important in the Japanese culture.
In contrast, the novel plays out in a small Japanese village outside of Kobe.
Not only are we confronted with hatred between Japanese and Chinese but also the fear and dishonor associated with leprosy, the lepers having been pushed out to the village Yamaguchi.
This pure, simple form of art is also reflected in how the Japanese interact with each other.I think you will be surprised about who the main protagonists are in this novel.
Beautifully written and hypnotic. I found such peacefulness when reading this story even though much of it is about a village of lepers living in Japan in the 1930s.It begins with the young man, Stephen, who is sent to live at his family’s summer home nearby in order to recover from tuberculoses. While there he meets their housekeeper, Matsu, who tends the garden and finds beauty in all things, which explains why I fell in love with this book and the characters in it even though it was filled with sadness.
I don't see his interest in being a painter, a good looking one at that as mentioned by many of the other characters, as a good enough excuse for this constant preoccupation and lack of further insight into those around him, especially when concerning the females.There's also the Second Sino-Japanese War to consider, which began before the events of the book and ended long after, fully subsuming this tale of a young Chinese man and his father traveling back and forth between the two participating countries.
This was an excellent and peaceful book...it is about a young chinese man who is sent to his parent's summer home at the beach in Japan to recover from an illness.
The caretaker of the home becomes his life-teacher and as the book unfolds he learns about relationships, how to find peace within himself, and about love and loss.
It gave me an insight into the beauty of Japan and the way of life in the remote parts of that country in the 1930s.
I had a sense of peace while reading this book and could not wait to find time to sit and read it in my free time.
This was a good book, a well told, gentle story, with believable, likable characters, but, for whatever reason, I just never got emotionally involved. A solid 3, heading toward 3.5.
Languish for a while in the Tsukiyama's Japanese garden and you may never want to leave.
The serenity created in Matsu's little haven is contradicted by the military domination of the Japanese over the Chinese and the reclusive leper colony struggling for a peaceful existence in a realm beyond that of war.
As his body begins healing, his emotions are delicately fractured by all that he learns of war, leprosy, first love, his family secrets, and the servant Matsu - who is truly a master of wisdom, honor, and faith.
I wanted to walk through this garden again and again.
There is betrayal, adultery, young love, and two gardens that play a large role as a place of peace.
Writing this I wonder how it all came together to make a cohesive story, but it does, and with beautiful imagery.
Stephen is met at the Tarumi train station by Matsu, the family’s long time gardener/caretaker of the summer home.
But really Matsu and Stephen form a bond and learn about life and family from each other.
Stephen is introduced to other inhabitants of Tarumi who play a large role in his year long stay.
At first it appears so simple, a story of a young Chinese-Japanese young man named Stephen leaving his family house in Hong Kong so his younger sister may not get exposed his sickness.
So he travels to stay at his family's Summer shore side home in Tarumi, Japan to recoup from a battle with tuberculosis.
He stays with Matsu a master gardener and the home's caretaker.
As soon as I encountered Matsu a quite man with little to say and so much inner goodness I wished to be Stephen recovering and learning so much from a humble mentor with so much integrity it brings tears to my eyes.
Beautiful writing. The story begins with a Chinese young man going to Japan to recover from a serious illness during the war with China. The slow pace about everyday activities while he is being cared for by a Japanese caretaker is meditative. I love learning about other cultures and history. Definitely recommend.
I hesitate to call this a "quiet" novel because often that means dull and boring. I enjoyed every page of this gentle, meditative book. The Samurai's Garden starts as the straightforward story of Stephen, a young Chinese man who goes to his family's seaside vacation home in Japan to recover from tuberculosis during WWII. But underneath the calm surface there is much more going on. Stephen's taciturn caretaker emerges as a hero, a woman whose face is eaten away by leprosy is profoundly beautiful and his Japanese friends are his country's enemies.
Bad, sentimental, insipid book about a young Chinese man from a wealthy Hong Kong family who is sent to a small village in Japan (why?) to convalesce from TB (?), only to discover a leper colony (named Yamaguchi lol) up in the mountains.
The Japanese are conquering China, but the young man Stephen who loves to call himself Stephen-san (which he shouldn't do when speaking about himself) doesn't really care either for his country, his friends, or his family.
Neither does he care about his illness, swimming in the sea, visiting people whose health has already been weakened by their disease, or kissing Japanese girls, all the time more or less happily spraying his surroundings with bacteria.What else?
A very old-fashioned book - sweet, slow, peaceful, with a gossamer-light style that will not appeal to all.
It is nearly a fairy tale, and a very gentle one, at that.
While it takes place during WWII (during Japan's massacre of Nanking), very little of the war intrudes.
You may be annoyed that there is little made of the massacre, of the war.
You may be annoyed by Stephen's detachment from his real family and replacement with this one that is fairy tale-fantasy.
I enjoyed the book largely for the fairy tale flavor and its slow, gentle pace.
The book itself is like a zen garden.
And they were delicately beautiful details.One of my takeaways: creating order and carefully-tended beauty can help us deal with the ugly and uncontrollable things that exist in our lives.I love this kind of quiet and sensitive writing.
While there were times when I thought Tsukiyama had taken it a bit too far, that the quietness here was possibly too much of a good thing, I was very much affected by the story.
The distinctive characters and atmosphere will stay with me for a long time.
Lovely book. I didn’t want it to end. I wanted to accompany Stephen back to Hong Kong to rejoin his mother and sister. Also, I wanted him to continue to have Matsu and his garden and his words of wisdom in his life. Sigh. The book ended too soon.
I'm not finished reading the book yet, but it is completely engaging as it allows me to slip away from my world of clutter and bright colours and stress and spend some time in a Japanese garden contemplating the beauty of life and people.
Set in the 1930s during the Japanese attach on China, this book nevertheless feels timeless.
It stills my soul and brings me peace.***I finished it now, and found this video which I would recommend to anyone who was wondering exactly what Japan looked like in the 1930s.
I had never read a Tsukiyama book before, but was eager to, as I've heard such good things about her work.
She seems to be a little neglected, unfortunately and undeservedly.
Whilst perusing Goodreads reviews, I plumped for The Samurai's Garden as my introduction to her work, as I loved the sound of the plot.
I was incredibly satisfied with this novel.
There are so many themes which are addressed here - illness, family, society, secrecy, difference, loneliness - all of which were handled with the utmost dexterity.
The Samurai's Garden is a beautifully written, rather quiet, and contemplative novel, and I very much look forward to my next Tsukiyama on its strength.
A couple of years ago, I read 'The Guest Cat', which a friend had recommended, and I didn't like that book at all.
But the friend had suggested that book to me thinking that I would like the quiet, meditative quality in that book.
But while 'The Guest Cat' didn't blink its whiskers at me, I fell utterly, magically, completely in love with 'The Samurai's Garden.'Set in Japan at about the beginning of the second World War, the book is a beautiful and evocative tribute to the unexpected friendships and relationships we make in life.
Also, another nitpick, how is it that Stephen can understand the Japanese citizens perfectly?
At the beginning of the book we learn that Stephen only speaks a little Japanese.
I can understand why Matsu could know Chinese since he grew up around Stephen's father's family, but the rest of the village?
And it doesn't help that Tsukiyama adds in the Japanese words in the middle of the conversation, further making it seem like they are speaking another language.
His family is letting him go live in a country that they're at war with, pretty much acting like it's no big deal.
A person's life can change so much in one short year.During World War II, a young Chinese man stays at his family's beach house in Japan.
The war between Japan and China is always in the background of the book, never quite forgotten even though it does not seem to impact the lives of the main characters directly.
During the course of the year, there are floods and fires, celebrations and funerals, failed relationships and happy reunions.As autumn once again becomes autumn, everyone has changed, everyone has grown in some small but significant way.Two of the main characters, Matsu the caretaker and his friend, Sachi, have gardens.
Prachtig, rustgevend en maakte mij aan het huilen. Meer volgt...Beautiful, peaceful, made me cry. More to follow...
A peaceful and very pleasant read, dealing with leprosy and with nice characters.Because he has tuberculosis, Stephen is sent to a holiday in Japan.
While worring about the war between Japan and China, he discovers that some people in the village caught leprosy.I really enjoyed the peaceful atmosphere.
I really liked the leprosy side, it added a lot of depth and was also interesting because I knew few things about the illness.
Overall, a well done book, conveying perfectly the old fashioned and asian atmosphere and a warm read about life, illness, death and love.
The Samurai’s Garden is a quick read, in journal style, and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys Nature-as-Character. It has a calming pace. This book covers a wide range of topics in human suffering, yet the elder characters are filled with acceptance and devotion. It is a lovely story about service.
Cannot stop thinking about this book. I like Booklist's comment,"An extraordinarily graceful and moving novel about goodness and beauty." Wonderful and likable characters, beautiful portrayals of settings, and symbolic meaning permiating the book (Yin/Yang, Death and illness/life and healing, earth/water/wood/fire/metal.
Since the book was set in the 1930s after Japan invaded China, it seemed odd that Stephen and his father could remain in Japan.
I hoped Matsu would marry Sachi and build a life with her, instead of hiding their relationship out of respect for her former fiancée.
And I wanted Stephan to express his feelings, especially towards his father about the breakdown of his parents’ marriage, rather than hiding behind politeness.
This book had many lovely moments, but ultimately, it reminded me of the austere rock garden that Matsu created for Sachi, without the color or passion that would truly bring it to life.
It’s harder than I imagined, to be alone. I suppose I might get used to it, like an empty canvas you slowly begin to fill. Stephen, a young Chinese man with Tuberculosis travels alone to the family cottage in Japan during WWII. Here he lives a quiet life far from war, family and friends. The only company he has is the silent Matsu who looks after the house and garden. Slowly a beautiful friendship emerges between the two men. Matsu scared away most people with his aloofness, but I was somethin
Stephen, a young Chinese man with Tuberculosis travels alone to the family cottage in Japan during WWII.
The only company he has is the silent Matsu who looks after the house and garden.
Slowly a beautiful friendship emerges between the two men.
Matsu introduces Stephen to a small community of leprosy and the beautiful Sachi who has lost part of her face.
Slowly she opens up to Stephen and we hear her fascinating story.
'The Samurai's Garden' is one of the most beautiful books I have read in a long time.
A wonderfully written and poignant story.
Stephen is sent from China to his grandfather's beach house in Japan.
It is here that is life becomes entwined with Matsu and Sachi, a leper colony and a young first love with a Japanese girl.
He learns about the Japanese invasion of China from radio broadcasts and letters from home.
This is a coming of age story, a love story and a story about the true meaning of beauty as well as a historical novel.
This is an amazing novel, one which I highly recommend.
Gail Tsukiyama is one of my favorite authors! Born to a Chinese mother and a Japanese father in San Francisco, Gail understands both cultures. In The Samurai's Garden, she portrays a Chinese student who develops Tuberculosis and spends a year in Tarumi, Japan, in his grandfather's summer house in order to recuperate. The war between Japan and China begins. Not only does Stephen recuperate in Tarumi, but he learns the meaning of life, death, peace, friendship, and love. I cried many times throughout the story. The characters are unforgettable. This is a must read!
This was a beautifully written book. It wasn't fast paced or even had a thrilling storyline. It was just so calm and moving, almost like poetry. The moral of the story is that no matter how hard or ugly life is. It's always worth living and there is always beauty even in the darkest of situations. At least that's what I personally got from it. The characters were all well written and thought out. I Loved this book.
