https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9531.Peter_and_the_Shadow_Thieves
Peter Pan is my all time favorite children's story/ fairy tale, so these books are right up my alley.
M Barrie's book, the Lost Boys are children forever.
Just like Peter.I have to say that George Darling irritated the snot out of me at times.
Molly tries not to show favoritism when it comes to the boys, but does have a wonderful moment when she puts George in his place after he crosses a line with his assessment of Peter.I'm interested to see how the situation with Peter and the Lost Boys will develop.
How and when will the Lost Boys stop aging, like Peter?
I love this series! I'm a huge Peter Pan fan and this take on the classic story is awesome. Part 2 really managed to expand the world of Pan and works as a perfect prequel to beloved story by J.M Barrie. Really looking forward to the next chapter!
Sort of a modern adaptation of the classic Peter Pan, this book is the second in the series, wonderfully-written and telling the story of a boy called Peter and his best friend, Tinker Bell, as they go through numerous adventures.
***Borrowed the audiobook CD’s from the libraryThe cover is definitely reminds you of Peter Pan with the flying out the window scene :)I really like this series and so does my son.
My son and I love listening to it in the car before and after school.
Their descriptions make the story easy to relate to, and I got pulled right into it.I highly recommend this series to adventuresome kids who would love a good story related to Peter Pan, but it is so unique and wonderful to listen or read.
Slank returns to Mollusk Island searching for "starstuff" with the villainous Lord Ombra and the adventure continues when Peter learns Molly and her family are in danger.Failing to locate the coveted "starstuff" on the island, Lord Ombra sets sail for England with two stowaways; Peter and Tinker Bell, who hide themselves on his ship.
Once in England, Peter has no end of trials and tribulations in his attempts to locate and warn the Aster family.
There are many page-turning kidnappings and rescues, as well as troublesome mishaps which make it difficult to set this book aside.
I read this whole giant thing in one sitting.
I'm so in love with this version of Peter Pan that I didn't even realize I had spent over 5 hours reading this.
There was so much adventure in this book, and a lot of new characters that helped make the story better, and it was such a good read.
I love Peter so much, and it was really fun reading the scenes between him and Tinker Bell.
I'm excited to read what happens in the next book, as there wasn't a cliffhanger at the end, so I'm no sure what to expect.
This book wasn't fun like the first one, at least not on that same level.
Better story, more tension, some unexpected emotions, fewer (seemingly) annoying villain POV scenes (at least in the second half of the book.) (Although I don't know that that counts because the villain POV scenes in both books are well written and rather entertaining.)OTHER HAPPY THOUGHTS:The authors did a great job with Tink.
And Mr. Barrie directed Peter "second to the right and straight on 'til..." which was the absolute best part of the book.
This book is also setting up important building blocks to get to the story we all know and love, introducing George Darling, insinuating that perhaps Molly will be Wendy Darling's mother and that there's a future generation to come.I'm interested to see how things will develop with the Lost Boys on the island, seeing as they should be aging.
Everyone else is aging but me." It's a sobering thing for any immortal to come to terms with, let alone someone who's still a child in mind and body.I thought the book's concept for Lord Ombra, the villain, was pretty awesome to be honest.
A fun addition to the first one :).
I like that they threw the original author (J.M. Barrie) in there, like a cameo :).
I think I enjoyed this one a little more than the first one.
Maybe it's because I knew the characters a little better, or maybe it's because Peter is a bit more mischievous and playful as we know him to be, or because we get to know Tinker Bell better and see her relationship with Peter.
Regardless- it's another quick read about a fun twist on a classic story .
I’m reading this series out loud to my daughters at bedtimes. My eldest already read the first three but both are enjoying this run, as an I. This is a wonderful retelling of the Peter Pan story, providing additional depth and background to an already fun framework. It’s a fun read for this adult but very enjoyable for my 9 and 11 year olds.
I do adore a good backstory, and Dave Barry and his co-authors provide just that for the Peter Pan saga. Favorite moment in this installment: when J.M. Barrie meets Peter in a dark London alley. He walks away musing, "Peter. That's a good name . . ."
An excellent sequel to an excellent book, it is a simple adventure book that keeps you interested the whole way through. I stand by what I mean when I say this series is better than the original Peter Pan.
Lord Aster appears briefly in the beginning with a strong end while Fighting Prawn and the Mollusk people and Teacher play their part at the beginning of the story.The Lost Boys, James, Prentiss, Thomas, and Tubby Ted break up the main adventure with their own perils while the terrified antics of Captain Hook (the former Captain Black Stache), Smee, and the rest of the stranded pirate crew provide a striking resemblance to Dustin Hoffman and company from the movie Hook—I can just hear Hoffman's Hook crying out for Smee!Slank is back from Peter and the Starcatchers.
I enjoyed it, for the most part. My biggest complaint is that it was excessively long. There was an awful lot of filler. Lots of unnecessary, superfluous details and even side stories that just filled pages. We don't really need to know exactly what is happening every single minute to every single character... I will continue with the series, because I heart Neverland. I just have to take breaks in between installments.
ohoho George Darling...
There are dangerous parts that made me hold my breath (especially with Jim Dale's narration!) and completely immerse myself in the story with the characters and root for their victoryAs with any fantastic children's novel, Peter and the Shadow Thieves has a terrifying bad guy.
Our shadows are exactly the type of thing we take for granted, and for Barry and Pearson to introduce a character who is capable of stealing people's shadows -- *shudder* I admit, Lord Ombra has entered into my nightmare hall of fame.In the end, I think I wanted a little more from the side of Captain Hook and the Lost Boys.
Peter and Molly face a seemingly indestructable enemy which can take control over someone merely by touching their shadow.
Peter must help Molly's father get rid of the dangerously miraculous 'Starstuff' before the evil Lord Ombra (the shadow stealing enemy) takes it for himself and use it to take over the world or something!
I loved the characters and the way everything kind of fell into place in the end and how all the villains never really left, but were still defeated until next time so theres room for another book!
But overall, I found it tiresome.As I said in the review for the first book, I felt like they could have cut at least 25% without any damage to the overall story.
Another reviewer mentioned the Harry Potter franchise when commenting on the length; I found other parallels: the name of Peter's school (St Norbert's School for Wayward Boys) and the one Harry allegedly attends (St Brutus's Center for incurably Criminal Teens) - but maybe they're both based on real school names?
Maybe I should have listened to it, like Susan recommended.
Maybe Jim Dale's voice for Ombra would make all those *groans* bearable.
In this riveting and adventure-packed follow-up to the award-winning New York Times bestseller Peter and the Starcatchers, Peter leaves the relative safety of Mollusk Island - along with his trusted companion, Tinker Bell - for the dark and dangerous streets of London.
But London is not Mollusk Island; Peter is not the boy he used to be; and Lord Ombra - the Shadow Master - is unlike anything Peter, or the world, has ever seen.The story continues only with a darker side to it - not sure I liked that very dark element.
Peter Pan is lighthearted and carefree and this story was just so ominous.
The authors also do an admirable job of making Peter both relatable and quite complicated.
It had never occurred to me before reading this series that there is a sadness inherent in Peter Pan; even though he gets to be forever young, he is also doomed to watch his friends age and move forward without him.
This makes the relationship between Peter and Molly especially poignant, though it never becomes heavy-handed.
I truly cannot wait to read the third book in the series; after meeting George Darling this time around, I'm excited to see the final pieces of the Peter Pan story fall into place.
Peter and the starcatchers have a second book Peter and the shadow theives.
An unexpected visitor arrives at the island with a few of the "others." They came for the stardust, but one of the "others" are absolutly not normal.
and when he touches your shadow he takes over you!
After taking the mulusk cheifs shadow they diside to go to a passific house in London.
The Aster's.
They arrive to London, but can the stop the "others" with their advantage of the caped figure who calls himself Lord Ombra.
Can he save the Asters?
I really liked the Peter and the Star Catchers, but this book was even better.
The plot was tighter (and quite unpredictable), the characters more developed, and the story just raced along.
The bad guys were scarier to me than the previous ones, and the situation was both more fantastic and more desperate than the last book.
I loved that George Darling was introduced into the story.
I wouldn't read it as a nine-year-old, that's for sure.
But get a bit older than that, and I think just about anyone would really enjoy this story.Read my complete review at http://everydayreading.blogspot.com/2...
awalnya saya skeptis dengan buku ini.entah..cuma ngerasa skeptis aja hehe..tapi ternyata lumayan seru juga.sayang versi terjemahan yang saya baca kurang memuaskan.
terjemahannya kurang konsisten.
ada satu kata yang pada redaksi aslinya disebut 'The Return' dan pada awalnya penerjemah membiarkan kata tsb dibiarkan seperti apa adanya.
namun hal itu berubah pada bagian tengah cerita.
'The Return' diterjemahkan menjadi 'Pengembalian'.
sebagai pembaca awam saya cuma bisa baca aja sambil mengerutkan dahi.cuma mau mengingatkan aja sih, baik itu buat pengarang, penerjemah, editor, dan proofreader jika detil kata itu perannya sangat penting sekali.
ada kesalahan kecil pada satu kata saja kadang bisa berpengaruh kepada pembaca.
I didn't enjoy this one nearly as much as I did the first book in the series.
Just couldn't get into the story at all and it seemed to go on FOREVER.
He said he'd give it 4 stars and couldn't believe I was only going with 2.
Lasky's writing feels like a nice, cool drink of water after reading Peter and the Shadow Thieves.
I really hope that the next book in the series has a more interesting storyline.
I LOVED this audiobook!!!
The book is SO good.
Then you add Jim Dale's remarkable performance and it just zings!
This is the continuing story of Peter Pan's adventures, pre-Wendy.
The first book told how he arrived on the island and set up the situation of his never growing up.
This picks up several months (maybe a year?) later and the Captain Hook and the boys have settled into a routine of mutual harassment and hatred.
This is interrupted by a new villain aided by some previously met varmints.
And it soars!Jim Dale's reading is, as always, just unbelievably wonderful.
Peter, the lost boy left with magical powers on an Island called the Never Land, wanted to see his friend Molly again back in England.
So, one day he went exploring and found that a boat full of evil men had come to steal the magic.
What the men didn't know was that the magic was in England with his friend's family.
Then, the men figured out and set sail to England.
Peter, wanting to warn Molly, hid on their ship and got to England.
What was Peter to do now that he had no idea where Molly lived?
Possibly an even better adventure story than the first "Peter and the Starcatchers" book, this installment takes place in cold, foggy, dangerous London. These books are wonderfully creative and full of detailed descriptions of the unique characters, haunting landscapes, and exciting escapades of Peter, Tink, and Molly. You will never think of Peter Pan the same way again! This will appeal to anyone who enjoys Harry Potter or the Percy Jackson books. Don't let the fact that it is written for children dissuade you from giving it a try; adults will enjoy this book too.
I was interested to see whether Dave Barry could keep the cracking pace and level of a jolly good read that he set in Peter and the Star-catchers. I am pleased to say that he definitely achieved this. If anything this was more of a chair gripping rollercoaster than the first of his prequels to Peter Pan. Along with the cast of the last book the author manages to give George Darling an appearance in this one. Jolly good read.
I liked this installment even less than the first one and I am not even going to bother with the third, Secret of Rundoon. My little sister read it and informed me that it didn't end very happily, which I had seen coming for quite a while. Again, I think that they would have done better to have told the story more originally than within the framework of the accepted official version, or, better, to have left it at Peter and the Starcatchers.
This series is a prequel to the Peter Pan story we all know. Quite enjoyable...my 5 year old will love these in a few year. They are wonderful adventures for young readers and adults will enjoy them as well.
