https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233820.Love_s_Abiding_Joy
I think I enjoyed the third book a little more, but this one was nice too. I watched the movie last night and it was way different from the book...I hope to start the 5th one soon though :)
However, it was still a wonderful book that is every bit as good as the Little House on the Prairie series, which it resembles, and fans of frontier stories are sure to enjoy it.In the last book of the series, Love's Long Journey, Missie and Willie headed west in a covered wagon to settle on the frontier and build a cattle ranch.
With a new rail line now running through a town not far from Missie and Willie's ranch, Clark and Marty are finally able to go visit them.
These books are sooooo good. When you feel tired of the usually things you read these are defiantely a go to book for me at least. They have beautiful story lines and amazing characters that you just fall in love with. Highly suggest this book and really think anyone would enjoy this.
This was not what I was expecting, but I loved it anyway. I love watching these characters grow. <3
It's suspenseful, deals with day to day life on the Canadian prairies in pioneer times, faith, and especially how medical emergencies were dealt with back then.
Looking back on the 4 books I can point to instances of Marty's stubbornness and other characters' faults, but not Clark's, and yet he's always doing the preaching about how much of a sinner he was, and yet Oke wrote him to be almost sinless!
I still like the series- it's nice brain candy and I enjoy reading about day-to-day life of pioneers, but Oke has made a lot of careless mistakes.
I was excited to return to Marty and Clark while reading more about Missie's budding family.
While there are people who've recovered (somewhat) and made their stories inspirational, they only succeeded after months or even years of struggling.
For a farmer like Clark, losing his leg could mean the difference between life and death.
Clark spends a page - one afternoon - crying and praying, and then he's fine.
Not only did Clark accept his new life, so did everyone else.
Since Clark never doubts, never struggles, neither his character nor his faith grows.
What a wonderful story ... a reunion between parents and child who have not seen each other for several years ... and a beautiful story of how to smile through adversity, how to let God be God, and how to trust Him for everything! Very inspirational!April 2015 ... my very favorite of the entire series. Reunion of Clark & Marty with daughter Missie ... and then a terrible tragedy, which a deep and abiding faith can turn to a deep and, indeed, abiding joy.
This book had such a good story about the trip, the rescue and the doctor, etc. I enjoyed it all. The movie was disappointing because it was completely different. I was looking forward to the scene with the bedbugs, but the whole journey was skipped altogether. If the movie has no resemblance to the book, it should not have the same title!
Beautiful series of Christian fiction.
That story and how that event plays out as part of this family's faith journey is what makes this book stand out.The author explores how Christians deal with God's will.
The author presents through the story her explanation of how God works in these things and this explanation is probably good as far as it goes.
(view spoiler)[ I feel that explanation by the author's story simplifies God a little too much.
That's why it takes faith to trust God in the hard times.
(hide spoiler)]Both Clark and Marty show deep and mature faith in this story.
Her family is helping her celebrate her forty-second birthday and Clark gives her a wonderful gift - train tickets out West!
The LaHayes have made a good life out West and that makes Clark and Marty happy.The time together passes quickly, but due to an accident in a mine, the Davis' stay is greatly extended.
During the time out west, Clark helps start a church, a school is built, and they get a doctor.
The book ends with Clark and Marty heading back home, leaving behind Willie, Missie, the boys, and a soon-to-arrive grandchild, as well as all the friends they've made during their stay.
Clark gives Marty a present beyond her wildest dreams - a chance to travel west and visit their daughter Missie in her new home (and a chance to meet their Grandsons for the very first time).
Will their other children really manage on their own?But Marty will find out one way or another as she and Clark head out west, once again.
Marty comes face to face with the fact Clark may not make it home.
A moving, touching story of pain, loss and suffering, love, family, hope and strength.
A historical Christian Fiction sequel to Love's Long Journey - Book includes a birthday surprise, a journey west by parents, Marty and Clark, to visit their daughter and family on a cattle ranch.They expect a joyful reunion, but their joy doesn't last long when a tragedy changes everything.
I am hit and miss on my reading and this one was great.
Loved it!!
Best so farI'm reading these in order, and this one was the best one yet. I've loved all of them, the warmth and love and easy adventures.
Wow, just when you think this series couldn't get better. ....it does. I flew through this book. It really grabbed me and I simply couldn't pit it down once I started it. A must read.
Totally enjoying this series--such an easy uplifting read.
Good just like the first three, I loved having Marty and Clark back in this one!
This was my favorite in the series so far.
Each book of this series seems to better capture the human element and emotions. I like them better as the series develops.
Absolutely spell binding.....Oh, how I look forward to:the next installment of the love series... the lives of these folks are so interwoven you can’t stop reading....
I think this is my favorite book in the series so far! I always love Clark's strong faith in Christ, but I especially love his example in this book.
Had a more intriguing plot than the first one that I read for school, which was  Love Comes Softly . Still not my type of Christian literature. Would have given 3.5 stars if able.
Great story
These stories are beautifully written and a wonderful pleasure to read.
Goodness, it was Missie's little girl (who wasn't even in this book) dying in the movie!
He's still the sweet, wonderful, perfect hero that I knew before!Marty is so wonderful.
You know, while I was reading the last book from her view, I was missing Marty and her perspective on things.
Now I think I was missing Missie's view while reading from Marty's.Willie was great.
Glad Missie got such a good one!Nathan – What a sweet little boy!
I'm also glad they'll have a much-needed doctor.Henry and Melinda are wonderful as well.
This is a very moving story of family life in pioneer america. Loved the characters and the depth of personality the author gives each character.
Doctrinally speaking, I take exception to the idea that accepting Christ is all one needs to do to attain salvation (a theme in this book that comes up for several sub-characters) — don’t you know anyone that “has a testimony” but doesn’t act like it?
I think, however, that Marty and the other characters in the book would take issue with that, too, because to them, embracing Christ as our Savior means to act as He would.I realize that as a Mormon (Christian, but not according to “the” Christians) I wouldn’t quite harmonize with all of the finer doctrinal points of Christian fiction.
(I didn’t read all of these in large print, but the cover art is the same.)The first book, Love Comes Softly, was the first I ever read by Oke, my introduction into her sweet, warm, and simplistic style of storytelling that would make her one of my all-time favorite authors, up there with Henry James and L.M. Montgomery.
Yes, I love my classic authors with their legendary works, but there’s something to be said for an author who just tells a plain story that gets at readers’ hearts.The first three books of the series are my favorites, but the series is well worth reading in its entirety.
This is the fourth bookin the 'Love Comes Softly' series about pioneer families in America.
In this book, Marty and Clark make the long journey out West by train, to see their married daughter Missie and to meet their two grandsons.
Not the greatest of literature, but the characters are three-dimensional, and several times I found tears in my eyes as I read.
It's not necessary to have read earlier books in the series, but it would probably help.
There are quite a number of different characters, which could be confusing for someone picking this book up as a stand-alone read.
