https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101065.Miracle_at_Philadelphia
I believe this is one of the most nuanced books I've ever read about the early years of our nation.
I appreciate it's scholarly approach to source analysis from the Constitutional convention in Philadelphia that hot summer in 1787.
So the next time you hear someone say that "I'm a Constitution expert and I know that this is unconstitutional" (I'm looking at you Fox News) just remember two things: 1) even the authors of the Constitution were so far from being "Constitution experts" that they had to hammer out compromises (a term which today draws derision from political zealots as being synonymous with appeasement, indecision, or spinelessness); and 2) that in our nation we all have the ability, through education, to become as much a constitutional expert as the windbags on cable t.v., talk radio, and in the blogosphere.
The thought that these men came together from all over the country, undeniably the best our young nation had to offer, and put their minds to form a government unique in the world while building relative consensus and offering compromise - while not quite coming to blows - and agreeing to keep this all under wraps until consensus had been reached, is breathtaking.
Critics of the Constitution and its imperfections need to read this book to understand exactly what a remarkable feat it was.The most frequent criticisms have to do with slavery and how it was dealt with in the Constitution.
The South wanted all slaves fully counted for the purposes of representation in Congress and the North didn't want them counted at all (to reduce their influence in Congress).
For example, it’s not common knowledge that New York had 20,000 slaves at the time of the Constitutional Convention.This is one of the few books I have read more than twice.
I finished this book for my AP Government class and I have no doubt that it is meant to be an informational read on the Constitutional Convention.
For instance, pages of information were given on the slightest pieces of information , while The Great Compromise (the so-called turning point of the Convention) was not discussed in real-time.
I would be reading about the New Jersey Plan, and then when Alexander Hamilton comes up to speak, I would get a full biography on his life and his family and their rivals.
By the time we returned to the New Jersey Plan, I would be very lost and confused.
This is a knowledge-expanding book and is my favorite read so far this year.
I read it slowly, taking 31 pages of notes along the way.
As the subtitle suggests, it is a narrative of the five months of the Constitutional Convention but also describes the ratification process.
It is simply a retelling of events, often using the delegates' own words.
I not only enjoyed reading about the debates and unfolding of events but also about the Philadelphia of that singular summer, feeling the oppression of the heat and the flies.
I highly recommend this book to all Americans.
Anyone interested in history and how the United States was founded should love this book.Catherine Drinker Bowen tells us the story of the thinking and writing of the U.S. Constitution in the voice of the delegates who attended the Constitutional Convention in 1787 and made history.The author used a plethora of sources to tell how the U.S. Constitution came to be step by step, day after day of the Convention.
We learn what delegates proposed, debated; what they agreed or disagreed on; how they voted several times on some issues; what they perceived as a real threat for Liberty in the future.This history book both reads like a novel and is an unparalleled source of knowledge.
This was not a bad narrative, but it did not have much analytical depth nor a solid connective thread in the story it told. It did include good physical sketches of some characters and some anecdotes new to me.
looked at that behind the President without being able to tell whether it was rising or setting: But now at length I have the happiness to know that it is a rising and not a setting sun." -Benjamin Franklin"That [the Constitution] may promote the lasting welfare of that country so dear to us all, and secure her freedom and happiness, is our most ardent wish." -George Washington"One cannot but admire their patience, the willingness of citizens to learn, ascertain the truth about this new government." "I formed my own opinion, and was pleased with this Constitution." -Jonathan Smith"Take things in time, gather fruit when it is ripe.
The Women's National Book Association sent this book to the White House today (March 1) in honor of Women's History Month: https://www.wnba-centennial.org/book-...From the Women's National Book Association's press release:We launch our Book-A-Day Women’s History Month Program at the beginning—with our founding document, the creation of the U.S. Constitution.
Catherine Drinker Bowen’s classic Miracle at Philadelphia: The Story of the Constitutional Convention tells the story of those few months in 1787 when the new country’s leading statesmen hammered out the compact that would define our country and shape its identity.
Drawing from letters, diaries, and other documents of the day, the author gives voice to the founders’ principles, fears, and passions—and charts their course, through contentions and compromises, to an agreement.
It is hard for me to rate this book fairly because I was not really ready for it.
It is a book of serious history.
Bowen is a superb writer, which is the only way I was able to get through the book.
However, this is a book that requires a certain amount of concentration to get through; (sadly, I haven't the ability to give it the concentration it deserves).
My main takeaway from the book is that our Constitution really was a miracle and that the signers but a tremendous amount of thought and debate into each clause.
Highly recommended for students of history who are serious readers.
Fantastic book on the Convention, it really brings it together for you.
Drawing from voluminous primary resources, Bowen has painted a very human and revealing picture of the politics and passions, hopes and fears, that were at work throughout the process of imagining, agreeing, drafting, and approving the U.S. Constitution.
Bowen shows us clearly, too, that once approved by the majority of delegates, these tensions and high chances for failure continued to prevail in several key state ratification convention discussions and votes, as the final 50 pages of the book detail so well.
305) Bowen’s book provides a remarkably lively and informative portrayal of the hard work of self-government and its development in the United States of America.
Her detail of the attire of the day, the heat in the meeting rooms, the smell of BO and the long speeches that last for hours and rarely accomplish concensus were intriguing.
I could not wait til the next days meeting and this went on for months.
I really got a personal account of Washington, Franklin, Hamilton and other key players as well as the letters being exchanged with Thomas Jefferson who was in France most of the time, but very much involved.
I love history and have never had a text book with this much detail.
It paints a good picture of the personalities and the competing political and economic interests of the states.
Until I read this book, I always considered the political battles leading up to the Great Compromise to be the major bone of contention.
This book shows how the west, and all the sectional and international considerations incumbent with it, were every bit as important as the bicameral legislative branch that was born out of The Compromise.The second thing I learned is that political behavior for individual citizens and political leaders has changed not at all in the last 230 years.
It was a good book focusing on showing the discussions at the federal convention which would draw the constitution.
It seems to be a little biased toward the federalist side (the current outcome) in which regards arguments or author excitement about it.I felt the end was a little rushed since ratification and its discussions were too short.
The anti-federalist arguments were not explored properly, although author express it in the end of the book saying it would require another book just for the anti-federalists.
It is a good book to get a better understanding of USA formation and how the constitution was created and under which circumstances it developed.
This should be required reading for everyone. This country wasn't founded on every one agreeing or one idea winning every time. It took people that came together to hash the hard stuff. There was no better time: most convention members had previously assisted in writing their own states constitution and not a moment too soon to prevent states from becoming more independent. The federalists ultimately prevailed for it to pass because they had a concrete idea and the anti-federalists had only fear, sound familiar?
Excellent book! The "Tour of the Americas" part dragged a bit, but the whole of the book was outstanding. Ms. Bowen does a fabulous job conveying the complexities of the Constitutional Convention and the ratification process in a summary fashion that still provides enough depth for the reader to feel a certain grasp of the depth of the process. One of the few books that will find a permanent place on our family bookshelf.
Another "must read" for anyone interested in understanding how unique and great is America. The challenges to the brave and talented men who met in Philadelphia were extreme. There were many disagreements, most are still being argued. It is difficult to understand how these men overcame the physical limitations of the times and the personal tragedies and illnesses they had to overcome.
I enjoyed this book so much! It really brings the Constitutional Convention to life, with numerous quotes from the participants. A must-read for anyone who wants to know more about this pivotal time in our nation's history.
A great read which should be required reading for every American citizen. In fact we should probably re-read it every few years.
History is not my favorite subject and I had to read it for a class. It wasn't my favorite but it is full of information! If you're into the subject it would be a great book for you.
It describes a day to day account of the discussions, debates, and sometimes even heated arguments that the founding fathers of our nation went through in Philadelphia during the early years of our nation.
Overall the book was very well written and very descriptive of nearly everything that was discussed at the Constitutional Convention.
The book was also very good and not providing any bias towards one set of ideals for issues that were brought up at the Convention.
Also the book is nearly 300 pages long and somewhat boring and monotonous.
I would also recommend this book to anyone taking AP United States Government because it was required for me to read for that class.
It is a book about the founding of a nation so one would not be surprised to be inspired by reading it, but Catherine Bowen took a different route and chose to write a straightforward narrative of the Federal Convention.
A very well written book by Bowen.I find it incredible that a group of men can come together and create the constructs for a government from the ground up.
Reading about the Federal Convention I was made witness to a political discussion between differing sides that actually ended successfully.
It's safe to say " the wolf is at the door " The country had to have a National Constitution that would bind the 13 States into a Nation.
Each State ( except Rhode Island) sent delegates to Philadelphia in May of 1787 with a total of 55 delegates ( there was never a time when all of the delegates were in attendance at the same time) the average age of delegates was 41, the oldest, Benjamin Franklin was age 81, the youngest was Charles Pinckney at the age of 29.
Some delegates wanted a large, powerful government similar to England.
This shows quite clearly why many did not want to re-create the country they had just vacated.The middle two chapters of the book take a break from the convention to describe the population of each state and their way of life in this new land.
It also describes the land (both frontier and city) and what it was like to live and travel in those times.The later chapters dealt with how the Constitution was to be ratified, and the public's reaction to it.
This book was written at a time when writing about the Founders and Framers of the U.S. Constitution was not vogue or fashionable whatsoever.
The wine was first water in Cana; there was a wedding and a need..."Her book as she claims celebrates that experiment -- the one that worked.
Her command of the original Founder's personalities is alone enough reason to read this fine work.
I am not certain if I have read a book about the Colonial Era where I felt as though I was truly there -- yet Bowen did.
In her unique period written English this book is a must read for anyone interested in the Constitution.
Nationalism, Federalism, or States rights?Madison is one of those names from American history that I know, but don't know much about.
Seems like he was a states rights proponent, I think he later became a republican (1800 sense) when he became president.Good to learn about the people who made it happen.
The author relies heavily on quotes from journals to tell the story of the actual writing of the Constitution.
It really broke up the rhythm of the particular matter being discussed.
No discussion about the actual drafting of the Bill of Rights.
At the beginning I found the descriptions of the members of the convention fascinating, their physical looks, the way they acted, their personal views.
It made the Constitutional Convention come alive to me.
I also paid close attention to Thomas Jefferson's effect and views.
I know he wasn't that much of a figure for the constitution, but it gave me something to focus on and pay attention to as I waded through each chapter.
As hinted at in my previous description, the middle of the book was rather difficult for me to get through, but at the end things speeded right up again and it was as if I was reading some high action drama.
I read this book during the same time period as I read "The Summer of 1787: The Men Who Invented the Constitution" by David O Stewart.
They are both good books but "The Miracle of Philadelphia" isn't as lively as "Summer of 1787." Stewart does have the advantage of coming around second and fixing some of the problems in Brown's book.
This book expects you to know a bit of history.
It is obvious that Stewart has read "The Miracle of Philadelphia" and, it seemed to me, to borrow from it a bit.
If you are only going to read one of the books, read, "The Summer of 1787".
like, the constitution was pasted unanimously by the states, and also that the transition period between the end of the Revolutionary War and the struggles to form a new government out from the inadequacies of the Articles of Confederation went fairly smoothly.
This book is about a subject matter that one would expect would be boring, but the author did a great job in bringing those events to life in an engaging way, with an attempt to help make the reader understand how difficult that task really was to create and pass our Constitution.
