https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228765.Zen_of_Seeing
آن ها هرگز یاد نگرفته اند چگونه ببینندآن ها فراموش کرده اند که انسان ها چشم هایی هم برای دیدن و تجربه کردن دارندبرای دیدن واقعی، دیدن عمیق تر و ژرف تر، و برای آگاهی کامل و زنده بودن است که من آنچه را چینی ها «ده هزار چیز» دور و بر می نامند طراحی می کنم.
This book shows us how practicing an Art is a form of meditation. The author introduces us to Seeing/Drawing as an experiential approach to reality. Seeing as an exercise of mindfulness. As an act of letting experince wash over us without reacting to it with desire or aversion. A really good book i would recommend to anyone and not just an artist.
I had read one other book by Franck.
His words always seem to settle me on creating art, not out of angst, but out of a place of wonder and praise, appreciation and real seeing.
Seeing/Drawing is a term he came up with for a medatative excercise to trust the eye/mind/hand relationship and to cultivate it while letting go of other distractions.
This work speaks much about movement and form, of study and of nature.
A good read for any artist.
His handwriting of the text is an intriquing aspect of the book.
I am not a Zen person. I am not a "spiritual" person. I was, however, a college drawing teacher for many years. This is an excellent book. It teaches you to pay attention and to truly see, which is half the battle in drawing. Even if you never pick up a pencil, this book will lead you to look at the world in a different way.
I don't know that this book will teach you how to see like an artist, but it explores the thought process behind seeing, and explores the idea of seeing like an artist/drawing as meditation.
If you're looking to refill your peace tank, I don't see how you can go wrong with yoga, meditation and/or drawing.
I've committed myself to drawing, painting, sewing.....doing something creative every day this year.
:) So if you want to make art a part of your life, don't be limited by your perception of your own talent.
"We do a lot of looking: we look through lenses, telescopes, tubes...
Our looking is perfected every day - but we see less and less."I probably should have read The Zen of Seeing when it was written in 1973.
It has the look of my old well-loved Vegetarian epicure, a sort of buff paper covered book with pen and ink sketches and hand writing.
It's good for the mind to stop and really see.
The book felt a little dated to me, but still has a good message.
Then of course, (since it is an art book) at least half of the volume is taken up with some very startling ink wash and line drawings.
He has some great stuff to say about teaching art; sometimes quotes from zen masters and sometimes just anecdotes from his outdoor sketching classes.
We do not notice that there are probably ten thousand tiny little items around us.
Focus on just one blade of grass: there are probably ten thousand tiny ribs along its length.
Thus, 'zen-of-seeing' is one great way to re-startle yourself back into the real world.
Honestly, I only read various parts of this book in the back room, waiting to be called out and model for a life drawing class at Mendocino College.
It redefines the basic concepts of drawing as I had known them all my life.
I was so amazed that I went out and bought art supplies.
Ok, that was about it, so far cratively over here, but my children really dug on all those supplies.
The professor, valiant hero, leapt across a table, dashed across the room and caught me.
I've studied many of the how-to draw books out there on the market.
And, I must say that this book is quite well written and easy to understand(it is actually handwritten and not typed).
However, this book will not be of any aid to those who are searching for actual techniques and drills (such as step by step exercises).
The lessons taught are somewhat similar in substance to those taught by Dr. Betty Edward's Book "Drawing on the right Side of the Brain".
I would recommend this title to those who are interested in drawing for the shear enjoyment of it.
Zen of Seeing is not a how-to book. No drawing lessons here. Instead, pleasant drawings and inspirational messages (hand written) encourage the reader to let go of rules and inhibitions.
Where has this book been? I started drawing and painting a few years back and have bought lots of books, but none like this! I don't think of myself as a Zen person or a mystic, but this book really speaks to me. The drawings are beautiful, but go beyond a superficial beauty. Even if one is not interested in drawing, there is lots in this book to recommend it. It is not just a book about seeing and drawing, it is a book about truly living.
I read excerpts of this book to my art students every semester. Years ago when I was Artist-In-Residence at a federal prison, an inmate brought me his copy of this to look at. He said he thought I would like it. He was SO right! Whether or not you draw, you will find this book full of insight. It's about drawing but more than that it's about SEEING, really SEEING, the world around us.
One of my favorites, but someone stole it from my collection - he rates it favorably as well.
I liked the concept of doing away with the trappings of "Art" and trying to get to the essence of drawing, but he really couches it in the writing style of someone who "smells their own farts" as my boyfriend put it.
There's a lot of fluff here, that I think he was trying to use to get his point across, but it tends to come off as snooty or elitist in it's own way.
The drawings are very nuanced and I think he uses them to great effect to literally illustrate the concepts he writes about.
I really love this author and his handwritten books about seeing/drawing. They invite the reader to slow down and to see the world with open eyes, to see human vulnerability in people, and to become one with the thing you're drawing. Several aspects of what he shared reminded me of how I felt while drawing as a child/teenager... becoming the tree, taking on the facial expression of the person you're drawing. This book certainly makes me want to draw more. This book and "the awakened eye" are two I hope to keep in my personal book collection for life.
Mentions two of my favorite concepts: Sunyata = Emptiness so full of potential that all emerges from it, all is reabsorbed in it.Baso quote: "When tired I sleep, when hungry I eat." Rishi!
This was text listed for my Architecture course in the early 80's. One of my cherished books except that I don't know where to find it! A meandering meditation on the zen of seeing. A classic.
bagaiman kau melihat lukisan, kau jatuh cinta, kau damai bersamanya
I love the idea of seeing and drawing as a meditation and I've read several positive reviews of this book. I wasn't impressed though. The handwritten script is hard to read so it felt like a struggle to absorb meaning from the text and numerous anecdotes and quotes. It's rare for me to decide to sell one of my art books, but I'm eager to get this one off my shelf so I can make room for something else.
The point is to concentrate fully on the object, person, or scene, and try to draw it accurately and experience its essence.
This way of seeing is the opposite extreme from the momentary point-and-click experience of most travel photography.
If you practice Zen seeing and drawing you may have the Zen experience.
Franck admits that the Zen experience cannot be explained in words, then he spends several pages trying to give an idea of it.
The Zen experience does not make any sense from a rational or scientific point of view.
The book is illustrated with many of Franck's pen-and-wash drawings.
Seems pretentious in many places, sneering at commercial or interpretive art.
But also offers many insights into what we'd currently call "the zone", and tie-ins with self-actualisation or enlightenment.
Near the end, the narrative slips away from its judging tone and offers a perspective on why photography is dismissed by the author, and in that slip a window is revealed into how anyone could use any medium to tap into this experience.
But every creator will have a different call inside of them.
For all of its flaws, this book will sit among my art-inspiration materials, and I will revisit it again!
I love the format of the book. The whole thing is hand-drawn and hand-lettered, and he is a very good artist with very cool handwriting. There were a few good ideas I took away from it.As a Christian, one thing that gets on my nerves is when Eastern religions try to paint Jesus as a great teacher who had reached an advanced level of personal enlightenment. They pick and choose which of his teachings to admire, and paint him as a model Buddhist. Jesus had no such pretense. The author was guilty of this on a few different occasions.
This books seemed a little to full of what could be taken as quotable type drawing dialogue. I don't know. I liked the idea of it, I liked what the author had to say about seeing beyond what is visible with your eyes but it just seemed a bit too much in the seeing through the mists of existence type stuff for me, although I do that at myself sometimes too.
Absolutely lovely, such a delightful read. I was alone with this book and the night sky and it was perfect. It really helped me see my art-making much differently, and I know for sure that from now one I will strive to SEE better - what I'm drawing, what calls to me, my cat's whiskers, my lover's face...
A lovely hand-written book with gorgeous pen drawings espousing the art of really looking at something until you see it and then let your hand draw it. Naturally. Bypass the ego and the mind and just allow the flow from eyes to hand to paper. Become the object. Maybe it won't teach you how to draw well, but you'll definitely see things differently.
Wonderful in its prose and illustrations. I started "Seeing/Drawing" and found myself less critical of my drawings and in awe of subtle movements in clouds, flowers and hermit crabs. I also enjoyed the quotes from zen masters. I recommend this book to anyone who wants to discover or rediscover their "inner-artist".
As a child, teaching myself to draw, all i knew was "how to look" at something and draw what I saw. To know that I was doing this at such an early age amazed me after finishing this read. I perfected(?) on this through my teens and then later through college, and to this very day. This book brought it all into perspective for me and helped me understand what it was I was doing all these years.
It is a wonderful book. You can be everything in world,such as tree,bird,other people,pencil and etc...By teaches of Zen you can develop in drawing with your soul,and enjoying from action of drawing.....
I really liked this book and plan to reread it. It is not so much a book about drawing, though there is a little of that, but a book about living, seeing, Zen. Excellent. Do not expect art lessons, per se. Though there are a few good hints.
Teaches how to look at things and to draw reflectively. The whole 'written in the author's handwriting' thing can make it a little hard to read the words sometimes but it reads like a letter written just for you.
