https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7661.Next
I can’t help but think about all those dads that are going to be so disappointed on December 26th when they crack open the book and find a collection of plot lines with confusing characters and stories that seem to go nowhere.In Prey and State of Fear, Crichton did what he does best in providing a well researched book with a riveting and thrilling plot, thought I felt the latter a little heavy handed with a viewpoint I didn’t necessarily agree with.
Oops! Finished this yesterday and forgot to review!I enjoyed this book even though it was a bit spastic. Basically, Michael Crichton learned everything he could about the state of gene research and politics and combined it into a series of fictional stories to make separate points. Some of the stories ended up crossing and some did not. If you read this, don't expect any cohesion, just appreciate the anecdotes within.
Next by Michael Crichton is a ridiculous, silly book.
But I bet a lot of people said the same thing about Brave New World, Dune, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, Stranger in a Strange Land, and 1984 when they came out.
I did not know that genes can be patented, human tissues can be used in any way by whomever happens to end up with them, and that gene testing results can be hidden in such a way that deaths have been covered up because they were "trade secrets".
But do we only produce children in test tubes like in Brave New World?
Crichton's books often have bibliographies, but this one also has an appendix containing his recommendations on legislative reform in the area of genetic research.As to the book as literature, he interweaves multiple plots that converge here and there.
I assumed he listened to CAA too much about how to structure his books because his agents cared not at all about them as literature, only about how much they would fetch for movie rights.The best Crichton book, by far, is "The Great Train Robbery." Not sci-fi at all, just meticulous research, loads of detail, and great storytelling.
1.5Next is a very well-researched book. And that’s the only good thing I can say about it.The characters were too many and too unmemorable; I forgot nearly all of them as soon as they were mentioned. The stuff on stem-cells and genes and biotechnology was excruciatingly boring. The story was over-exaggerated, silly and unintentionally funny. A swearing chimpanzee and a transgenic ape who goes to school?? Are you kidding me??I’m still trying to figure out why I read Next instead of Jurassic Park...
Actually I liked this book.
Don't know why majority readers thought this book was overrated.
Well researched book, the author has taken pains to learn about genes and weave a story around it.
The book was also interspersed with articles and essays on biotechnology related subjects.To make it short, the book is about genetic technology and experiments around it including the discovery of various genes with behavioural traits.
There are three or four plots in the book which are unconnected.
There are greedy tycoons, unethical scientists and immoral health workers and abundant technical jargon thrown in to make the book interesting to the reader.
Simply put a very engrossing book.
However, I wouldn't recommend reading this a chapter a day....The book deals with the dangers of humans meddling in genetics from all different angles.
A man whose bones have been stolen in the grave for research purposes...The author has created a world where genetics have gone haywire as things that wouldn't even have been thought about twenty years ago, are actually happening.
People are playing God as they experiment with lives and the consequences are unknown...A scary prospect, even more so when the sources at the end of the book, in the author's note, document cases where some of these things have happened in the real world!As a Christian, I liked that the author highlighted the dangers of messing with these things.
Fast paced story with a ton of subplots that plays like a popular soap opera of your choice.
Topics range from legal battles over human tissue (including the right to have bounty hunters go after the descendants of said tissue), transgenic apes, one transgenic parrot (that talk tough if provoked), biotech espionage vs.
The ape kid is one of the best top four characters in this novel.
CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B plus to A minus; STORY/PLOTTING: A; HOTNESS OF SAID TOPIC AND FUTURE DISCUSSION: A; NEW WORLD EXPOSURE: B plus; WHEN READ: October to January 2011 (review formatting change 8/23/2012); MY GRADE: B plus to A minus.
And, lemme tell ya, pickings are slim.So I got a  Michael Crichton book.
More so because I actually, well, liked it.Crichton, I think, resonates so well with middle-of-the-road audiences because his takes on science and technology tend to play to the common man's fear that it's all spiraling out of control.
It feeds the idea that scientists are unscrupulous, insane dirtbags.Next really isn't that different.
There's a lot of unscrupulous science going on here.
Just like most other Michael Crichton sci-fi thrillers.The difference here is that, well, he might actually be right.
RTCSo I got this in a book haul and so excited to read this!
it may not have many great reviews and here's what I say about those who say they don't like Crichton or give 1-2 star ratings and would think me weird.....I FREAKING LOVE AND MISS MICHAEL CRICHTON!!
the ONLY reason I think sooooo many people gave/give up on him or rate so low is because of all his science talk.
I don't think I've been more excited to read a Crichton book after reading up on the premise of this story!!!
I think where Next fails is that Mr. Crichton tried to get too many storylines going in order to have them all running simultaneously in an effort to show a more grand scope to his issues of possible problems with genetic research.The main problem here is that many of the characters became washed out and meaningless.
I think that he had the bones here to craft a really good storyline, but would have benefited tremendously from a heavy dose of self-editing and then expanding the tales of those characters that he felt most essential to keep.What came out of this book for me was confusing and subsequently, quite boring.
The book is about all of the possibilities of gene therapy and genetic engineering and it blends fact and fiction in clever ways that leave the reader with the unnerving sense that some of the fictional story lines are probably happening somewhere in the world right now.
It also gives a strong sense of just how uncontrolled this field is and what ethical questions arise if a person allows a company to "purchase" their cell line...or a scientist decides to insert human genes into an animal fetus and create a "transgenic" animal...or someone claims to have isolated a particular gene that could cure a disease.
The behind the scenes buying and selling of gene patents between universities and/or drug companies is downright scary.
Fantastic book. Immensely futuristic even as it shows you what is actually happening today. The fact that transgenic animals have been created for decades was an eye-opener. The book clearly has a viewpoint on genetic engineering and there is an author's note at the end which is a must-read. Highly recommend this to anyone who is looking an intelligent thriller, even though the book is also satire.
The second thing that was driving me was the notion that there are a great many stories of interest in this area, and they’re all quite different in terms of the legal and ethical problems that are raised in the field, so I wanted to do a number of different stories.The story, though it moves along quite nicely, doesn't really have a meaty enough middle to it (well, except for Gerard, the talking African grey parrot, who's a riot), and is more a device for the larger intent and theme that Crichton has in mind.So, as a novel, I wouldn't rate this one too high.
Nghe thật phức tạp nhưng hãy cứ hiểu rằng thứ vốn thuộc về cơ thể bạn lại được chính quyền cấp phép sở hữu cho một tổ chức.
Việc nhớ hết tên và tuyến chuyện thực sự mệt mỏiCuối cuốn sách, tác giả rất cẩn thận tóm tắt lại các quan điểm của mình về các vấn đề và lỗ hổng pháp lý xung quanh biến đổi gene và sở hữu gene.
Kết lại, cuốn sách khá phù hợp với các bạn yêu thích công nghệ biến đổi gene.
I finished NEXT last night, having taken two months of bedside reading to move through it leisurely.
I also read several of the reviews on this web site.
I wonder if those who complain it "has no plot" actually finished the book.
Crichton DOES pull together his disparate plot lines in the last few chapters.
Its important to keep in mind, as one reviewer pointed out, that Crichton is a satirist.
This is a fun book.
Grim fun, to be sure, but that's often true of SF humor.
Crichton is not trying to paint an accurate picture here of how far things have come.
I had been boycotting Michael Crichton since his unhelpful muddying of the waters of the climate change "debate" in his next-to-last novel which included a personal message to his readers that he didn't believe the issues were really human related at all.
However, I was stuck in an airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico, having finished every novel in my bag and with the prospect of 12 hours of airplanes and airports ahead.
I don't disagree that genetics, gene therapy, and copywriting of particular genes are bringing up some worrying issues but I don't need them pointed out to me by some hack writer in the guise of a novel.
I love the way that Michael Crichton takes seemingly non-related parallel story lines and brings them all together in the end.
I could really do without the profanity in the book...
as verb, noun, adjective, and maybe even some new ways to use it.
I had to laugh when on page 370, one of the characters, "shouted and swore." Any other place in the book, he just put it right out there.
Even when the character was not directly talking or thinking, Crichton would use profanity as an adjective when describing what was going on.
The Good: A fantastic premise, as always, from Crichton.
Fact based, with completely terrifying implications, Next takes science today to that "next" step.
If furthers things just a bit more, the ramifications of which give the readers a lot of troubling thoughts to consider.The Bad: Crichton lost me at the money.
A monkey that you can pass off as a child with a hairy birth defect and some impulse control issues.
The fact that this monkey was able to fool more than one person in this book was just ludicrous.
I had a hard time taking anything seriously in the book after that.
This is classic Michael Crichton. I love his stories and how he intermingle science within a fictional novel. The story deals with the ethics and stories associated with bio genetics. There is a long cast of characters and the author ties them together in the end (which is probably a little too far fetched). However, it is a great way (for me) to get lost in an amazing world that Michael has a way of putting together. I am sad that he has passed away and will no longer be able to gift the world with his creativity.
Reading this was like watching a badly written television series. Crichton tried way too hard to be sensational. Disappointing.
However, they know that Frank has a daughter and a grandson, and they go after them, hoping to extract cells from them, viewing those cells as "stolen property." Easily the most action-packed of the plotlines, it was quite entertaining.Crichton does not limit his exploration of the world of genetic engineering, culture, and the law, to these two story lines and has several unrelated or marginally related subplots and one-shot chapters exploring various other issues, including issues relating to patenting entire species of wild animals, when hospitals make a profit from the body parts of deceased patients, and the rights of anonymous sperm donors in a world of DNA testing.
This book was recommended to me by my Dad, I'll always read anything he gives me. I read this a long time ago, I remember it being very scientific, so at times I did struggle to keep up and understand what was going on, but I remember it being brilliant.A guy working with a monkey trying to find a cure? I will definitely have to re read this but I remember it being good
Genetic capitalization, that is the name of the game and Crichton spins multiples stories that all revolve around how the progress of science can be (and likely already is) used and abused for capital gains.
The multiple story lines are okay, there is little to no real character development, but in the end is that what you expect from Crichton?
Do people really not know the difference between apes and monkeys?
I mean, every character seemed to understand how genetic engineering would basically work, but the concept of ape not monkey was beyond them - Yarg.
Medical related, of course, the story follows individuals as they face the consequences of things like genetic engineering, DNA decoding, genetic tampering, and one of the most insane things out there: gene patenting (side note, did you know 5% of the genes that make up who you are are patented and "owned" by companies?)Are all the things going on in the book true?
Not a read for everyone but if you like science and can stand an intersting book where you don't fall in love with the characters then I do recommend this book.
I'm not sure if Crichton just had a bad writing streak, or if my tastes in reading have moved on - but his most recent book, Next, was an astounding disappointment.Next focuses on the potential that present day and up and coming genetic technologies may have upon our society and way of life.
A cautionary tale not unlike many of Crichton's other novels, this book was designed to intimidate and bring forward the scarier possibilities that new genetic technologies pose.
For these reasons, I would suggest that anyone looking for a fast reading 400 page book, this one is it.
This could have been a thrilling book, really, but it definitely isn't!
Crichton picked a very interesting topic (genetic engineering) but failed to make a coherent book out of it: a chaotic plot, uninteresting characters, disjointed storylines that are woven together towards the end of the book but don't make much sense, an ending that left characters and situations unresolved (not to mention the cuttings about the evolutionary fate of blondes?!)...
"Completely brilliant", it says on the front cover of this novel, which makes me wonder, did we read the same book???
This was definitely a thorough disappointment for me.
Michael Crichton has written some great novels in the past, but "Next" isn't up to their standards.
I love the way that Michael Crichton takes seemingly non-related parallel story lines and brings them all together in the end.
I could really do without the profanity in the book...
as verb, noun, adjective, and maybe even some new ways to use it.
I had to laugh when on page 370, one of the characters, "shouted and swore." Any other place in the book, he just put it right out there.
Even when the character was not directly talking or thinking, Crichton would use profanity as an adjective when describing what was going on.
Anything monkey, gorilla... right up my alley.
The character development was interesting in a simple way.
A bit disturbing when we consider the scientific, moral and ethical extremes that it portrays!
The possibilities of actual occurrences as such, was also a bit disturbing.
The fact that animals could be used and altered from their natural states, that genes could be not so much studied as manipulated and distorted.
Gives the idea that the entire natural world hangs in the balance of being affected negatively by man and science.
Interesting but dangerous ideas without proper knowledge and wisdom as our guides!
