https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/975885.The_Vampire_Tapestry
“The corporeal vampire, if he existed, would be by definition the greatest of all predators, living as he would off the top of the food chain.” Dr. Edward Weyland, professor of Anthropology, is conducting a sleep study as part of his teaching program. It is very popular with the students, especially those who need the extra cash. They even start wearing t-shirts…Sleep with Weyland. He’s a dream. Charnas’s creature Dr. Edward Weyland.He is irresistible. ”Just look at him, so haggard and preoccupi
“The corporeal vampire, if he existed, would be by definition the greatest of all predators, living as he would off the top of the food chain.” Dr. Edward Weyland, professor of Anthropology, is conducting a sleep study as part of his teaching program.
We have been at the top of the food chain for a long time, and certainly most of us have lost our edge, our instincts, even in some cases the ability to listen to our own natural protection grid of senses that are hardwired into us to keep us safe.
This is copy 40 of 150 signed and numbered copies signed by Suzy McKee Charnas, Nancy Baker, Benjamin Mowak, Jeffrey Allan Love
The Vampire Tapestry is unlike any book I have yet read or expect to read.
I owe a debt of thanks to Book People in Austin, Texas, for displaying it prominently above a glowing staff review, thus mining this gem from its relative and wholly undeserved obscurity.
We see Dr. Edward Weyland through the eyes of various satellite characters in a brilliantly weighted quintet of short stories that might be called chapters (or the reverse)-the characters we discover are diverse and very real.
If this story lacks a hero, it delivers a blameless anti-hero, sympathetic, three-dimensional and endlessly fascinating.
Read this book.
But I also read on because of the ludicrous way she discovers the vampire is a vampire, it's in the first few pages so no spoilers:She sees him walk by a student who is hunched over on the ground possibly because of pain or maybe extreme fatigue after a session at the vampires sleep lab.
Even though it's split into novellas it's basically one long musing about vampires in different settings.
A musical interlude So this novella is basically just watching Tosca through the eyes of the vampire, his colleagues and some of the actors...
It was basically just reading a weird version of Tosca, with annoying interludes from the spectators.
When publishers have a 'vampire Romance' section on their website, you know the purchasing power a literary fad has got to be considerable indeed.
Some folks are ok with chewing through every vampire romance book under the sun in their lust to sake their vamp fixation.
well, this is not just an enjoyable, titillating narrative with bared bosoms and dark brooding heroes (though of course, those types of books have their time and place!) This is a novel that asks questions- questions about humanity, isolation, empathy and relationships.Written as a series of short stories based around a central vampire character, this book jumps into the point of view of several very different protagonists in a very realistic way.
If you only every buy one Vampire book, make it this one.
Ugh. Got to the part where the main character starts to blame the victim for being raped on campus by saying "no real woman" would let that happen to her and got so disgusted I couldn't finish. This followed by her saying another character was all but a bleeding hippy for wanting to save the ozone layer and then she slips into some weird fantasy right after where she's remembering hunting endangered big cats in Africa during her youth. I think I'll take my vampire novels without Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS thank you very much.
I found it hard to connect to Dr. Weyland's austere personality.Of the five novellas, the one I liked the best (and the one that won the Nebula Award) is "Unicorn Tapestry", featuring Dr. Weyland in therapy.
The only reason I don't give this novella 5 stars is that the psychologist's style seems quite cold to me, like many of the fictional therapists I've read in books or watched in movies (but that's my little pet peeve).
Historias independientes con el mismo protagonista, un vampiro profesor de universidad. Todos los relatos están relacionados y siguen una línea temporal. En cada uno pasara bueno y malos momentos el vampiro. Muy pesados todos ellos, falta de entretenimiento palomitero y exceso de interiorizar el sufrimiento de alguien diferente.
Our hunt for new series to read is ongoing and often on our blogs, or the podcast we request new titles.
Up to this point we were forced to constantly refer to Charlaine Harris’ Aurora Teagarden series as our example as the most fail possible.
It was awkward, because we were constantly referring to a book outside the genre and justifying it based in Harris’ urban fantasy series.
So, thank you.I’m sorry, this review does descend into a lot of snark - but oh gods this book was PAINFUL.
Despite the "Scary" endorsement from  Stephen King on the front cover, this wasn't, really. And despite the title and the presence of a human-shaped blood-drinker, it really wasn't about vampires. More a stately exploration of questions like, What does it mean to be human? What is Art and why/how does it affect the observer, human or otherwise? What does it mean to be a predator? To have/want/use power? Oddly, this make me think about  The Sparrow, which is really nothing like this except possibly in some meta-sense, and is much better.
Un vampiro diverso, storia interessante. Avrebbe dovuto essere bellissimo, purtroppo manca qualcosa.La lettura procede lenta, salto diversi paragrafi, i dialoghi annoiano.Peccato.
I had some ambivalence about this book at first, but ultimately came to appreciate it a lot.
Ed Weyland is a professor with a difference, he is a bona fide vampire.
Weyland is nothing more than a creature with significant physiological differences from humans, a predator living among his prey, stronger, longer-lived, with keener senses.
A Musical Interlude takes Weyland to New Mexico and the strongest of the five tales.
There is another professor, Irv, across the hall from him.
Irv is beloved and tries to engage Weyland.
Charnas has things to say about art, academe and human relationships.
I wasn't immediately engaged in the book, but after a couple of chapters I just gave into the story being told.
If you are interested in vampires and not just a part of the current fad, then I recommend this book to you as something new and unique to the genre.
If you are interested in a great deal of supernatural and superhuman predatory motifs then this isn't the book for you.
If you are, however, someone that is interested in the vampire character and are willing to forgo conclusions you will get a great deal out of this book then a mere vampire tale.
He is other, he is alien, he is the ultimate predator.
There is no sentimentality or sympathy in him, he is the ultimate predator and an encounter with him will most often end badly for those humans who get close, with the notable exception of his therapist.
I find my mind returning to the connected stories in odd moments, imagining the opera under the stars in Santa Fe as life and death events occur backstage, eclipsing the drama taking place on stage.
Suzy McKee Charnas wrote an extraordinary story, seek it out.
The Vampire Tapestry  is the type of vampire book I'd find prior to all the PNR/UF books out now. The books consists of five novellas that run chronologically to form a full length novel when read together. The first three are all written from the POV of three people who cross paths with Dr. Edward Weyland and recognize him for what he is, vampire. The final story is told from Dr. Weyland’s perspective where he realizes the consequences of living too closely with his prey and the effects it has
The books consists of five novellas that run chronologically to form a full length novel when read together.
The final story is told from Dr. Weyland’s perspective where he realizes the consequences of living too closely with his prey and the effects it has on his existence.Dr. Weyland is unlike any of the traditional vampires.
He's a living being of a different species.
He doesn’t know his own origin, but he knows that he has lived for many lifetimes.
This is the story of what happens when his existence is revealed to others.[Format Read: eBook]
Charnas is a capable writer but this book really, really SUCKED.
This vampire didn't even have fangs-he had a probiscus under his tongue and used his tongue to suck blood from arms.
The vampire was older and ran a sleep-study program at a university which was profoundly fitting since he put me to sleep every time I tried to read about him.
In the begining, I tried to keep an open mind and accept that this wasn't a typical take on the average vampire tale.
It didn't happen and I abandoned the book altogether.
Unfortunately, this book did not meet my expectations, though I really wanted to like it.The story consists of several episodes in the life of Edward Weyland, Vampire.
From now on, Weyland meets several people who have more impact on his life, thoughts and feelings than he ever thought possible, until then regarding people simply as livestock and source of nourishment.I really liked the extraordinary premise of the book and what a wonderfully different kind of vampire the author has created.
But I certainly did.Possibly the most fascinating vampire I have read about, Dr. Edward Weyland is an enticing mix of curious ignorance (the rationale for which is explained brilliantly in the book), aloof otherworldly detachment, urbane demeanor, and predatory instinct.
The fourth 'chapter', however, where the vampire is exposed to Puccini's Tosca for the first time and reacts...surprisingly...elevates the entire work to a new height.
It was a sublimely-written, brilliantly-conceived portion of the novel and I read it twice, the second time just so I could enjoy it with the Metropolitan Opera's performance of Tosca on the record player.
Interesting take on vampire lore.
This was actually 5 novellas strung together by one vampire being the main character.
The story really gets interesting once she figures out his illusion is no illusion at all.
I enjoyed the idea of vampire not being a supernatural being, nor a being with super hero abilities, but a creature who just survives on cleverness and cunning.
I also wasnt super thrilled with the 4th story only because the great detail of Tosca was too much.
I get it, point made, move on.I recommend to all who love vampires and are willing to view it in a different light.
50 για φέτος!* Το ‘υφαντό του βαμπίρ’ ήταν η πρώτη μου επαφή με την Charnas και μπορώ να πω ότι δε μ’ άφησε καθόλου δυσαρεστημένο.
Στα δικά μου μάτια ήταν ένα πολύ καλό ‘κοινωνικό βαμπίρ story’, όσο ασύμβατο κι αν ακούγεται κάτι τέτοιο σαν έννοια, (αφού είμαστε συνηθισμένοι οι ιστορίες αυτού του είδους να ακολουθούν διαφορετικά μοτίβα).
Με το παράδοξο να είναι ότι, τελικά, είναι οι θνητοί αυτοί που δημιουργούν και διαταράσσουν την κανονικότητα της ιστορίας και όχι ο ίδιος.
Η μοναδική βασική ένσταση που έχω με την ιστορία έχει να κάνει με το τέλος της.
This book is on my favorite’s shelf because it is so different from other vampire books.
The main vampire character is an animal not a specter or demon.
I applaud the author to not use fangs on her monster, if anything it’s just nice for a change.
Also when you think about it, it’s a better design if you want to remain an anonymous feeding machine.I definitely appreciated the authors use of intelligent design with her creature.
So if you’re into vampires stories with heaving bodices, cry baby vampires and sad main characters with their silly romantic problems.
It took me a while to get into this - the novel is broken into five stand-alone sort of novellas, and the first was somewhat the weakest for me, though I liked how it set up the unconventional, unlikeable vampire-hunter.
All five sections deal with a single character - a vampire anthropology professor.
He is as far a he knows, the only vampire, ever.
It is from the point of view of a psychiatrist analyzing the vampire and gets very interesting.
I liked seeing the vampire slowly give in to the process and get therapy of a sort.
No capes. No bats. No fangs. Charnas takes an almost anthropological look at what a predator whose main prey is man might realy be like, and the picture is amazing and haunting and sad.
Distanced from culture-bound assumptions and distracting emotional entanglements, Weyland devotes himself to anthropological research and to preying on unsuspecting humans.The first three chapters are from the POV of humans who come to realize Weyland’s vampire nature, while the last two are from the POV of Dr. Weyland himself.
One of several people who feel intense sympathy for Weyland, Mark feeds the vampire his own blood and helps him escape.The narrator of the third chapter, “Unicorn Tapestry,” is a psychotherapist, Floria (named after the heroine of TOSCA), who sees Weyland as a patient.
Reminded of his lover Floria, he is unexpectedly moved by seeing TOSCA at the Santa Fe Opera.At the very end of VAMPIRE TAPESTRY, Dr. Weyland, is out of options.
Bella, who?Written in 1980, this is a history of the vampire, Dr. Edward Wayland, told through short story narrative in 5 parts, describing his relationship with 5 different people.
Each of the 5 people he meets/situation he’s in corresponds to a psychological state: defensiveness of the predator, acquisition of knowledge (of the academy and of the good/evil in human nature), inward psychoanalysis, relationship to human-created art.
Is the predator of humans immune to human desires, loves, fears, art and behavior?
Or does his long history of living with (and feeding off) humans make him more human than he ever realized?
The first three quarters of this novel are incredible, particularly part three in which said vampire, Dr. Weyland, becomes acquainted with a therapist.
This isn't your typical vampire novel (no sparkly drag queen vamps here, ladies), but works well utilizing a psychological slant.
Yes, there are some kills, but they are never gory, and play out more as a characterization towards understanding and, at times, sympathizing with the protagonist, who is in a way, also the antagonist of the tale.
The latter part seems to drag, particularly the scenes involving the opera.
Finally!I get that we're supposed to see how he thinks he's so superior, then at the last second, he figures out that he's just as F'd up as the rest of us...
then he's going to sleep it off and start over as superior in 50 years.
Each "section" should have been better developed and made into separate novels instead of quick snippets of his life where we have no emotional attachment to anyone and we can't tell what the point is at the end of the section.
OR, maybe the lack of emotional development of characters is because we are viewing these characters through a heartless vampire's eyes?
Charnas has brought us a vampire that is cold and calculating, making for a creepy tale to read.
The vampire has no supernatural powers.
He is a biologically-driven feeder of human blood.
Neither good or evil.
The novel is actually five stories weaved together to form one solid tale filled with suspense, fear, insights, and a touch of empathy -- all which could destroy the vampire and/or the humans he comes in contact with.
I really enjoyed her take on the vampire.
There is no bemoaning his fate.
There is no angsty longing.
When he stalks, he is a predator hunting his prey.
The Vampire Tapestry by Suzy McKee Charnas is a fascinating story recounting the life of the vampire Dr. Edward Lewis Weyland.
The book reads more like a series of interconnected novellas than a novel but I liked it.
The first three sections are told through the points of view of three people who come into contact with Weyland and know that he is a vampire.
The last two sections are told from the Weyland’s point of view as he envisages his increasing cognizance of human nature.
It's a persuasive story that abjures all the allure and sex so frequently accompanying with vampire novels.
I expected to be blown away by this pre-AIDS vampire novel but I was not. The characters too easily believed that this man was a vampire on not much evidence, particularly the therapist. In half a second the characters figure out that he's really a vampire. How much more interesting if the therapist had continued trying to treat a man with "delusions" of being a vampire, all the while not knowing that he really was one. Still, an interesting read, with the beginning sections more compelling than the end sections.
