https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178567.No_Fond_Return_of_Love
Quiero señalar que esto no es malo en absoluto, sino curioso, porque es casi como experimentar con la idea de cómo serían los libros de Austen si hubiesen sido escritos en el siglo XX.Los elementos en común son: un grupo reducido de personajes que se encuentran y desencuentran constantemente en su ciudad y otras, románticos malentendidos, ironía fina a la hora de analizar y hablar de la sociedad, transmisión de melancolía y comedia al mismo tiempo, un párroco guapete (en los libros de Austen los párrocos pueden ser guapos mozalbetes o gusanos desagradables, y en Amor no correspondido es lo primero), mujeres fuertes que cuando se quedan a solas se comen la cabeza, nuevas amistades dispares entre gente aparentemente opuesta y un final que se resuelve en la última página.
Pym has been compared to Austen, which is unfair on anyone, but whereas Austen dealt in a society of strict rules, Pym's London of the turn of the 60's deals in much more vague customs and therein lies the comedy: the etiquette of the church jumble sale, who to invite to dinner parties, dare one mention a mutual acquaintance who might be thought to be a libertine?This is a comfortable read: lovely, sweet and heart-warming, like a cup of tea after a bracing walk.
Dulcie is given a room next to Viola Dace, who has been holding a bit of a torch for Aylwin Forbes, who will speaking during the weekend, and for whom she has previously done some indexing work.
Dulcie is living alone in a large house she once shared with her parents, she is soon joined by her eighteen year old niece Laurel, and not long after that, Viola Dace – in need of a temporary home also moves in.
Un libro delicioso, maravillosamente escrito y con un sentido del humor sutil que le dota de un encanto especial. Ideal para pasar un rato entretenido y gozar de un buen estilo narrativo. Sin embargo, su concepto "victoriano" del amor, teniendo en cuenta que se escribió en 1961, me chirrió un poco por esos amores platónicos que aparecen y desaparecen de la nada y esas relaciones que no se desarrollan.
Me ha parecido ingenioso y divertido.
But this somewhat ridiculous and convoluted state of affairs doesn’t cause anyone too much heartbreak, and Dulcie certainly has her share of fun looking into Alwyn’s family and roots and taking a more active part (not on her own behalf though) rather than simply watching things play out.
Dulcie isn’t one of Pym’s excellent women—she doesn’t really attend church or involve herself in charity work—but looking into Alwyn takes her to those familiar Pymish places, various church services, a charity jumble sale, even a seaside trip, and the reader certainly has fun going along.
Reseña   "Amor no correspondido” , de Barbara Pym
He tardado más o menos un mes en terminar esta primera incursión en la obra de Barbara Pym, me resulta muy difícil escribir una reseña sobre Amor no correspondido.
Creo que es una historia muy bien escrita, con unos toques de humor e ironía que la hacen muy ingeniosa pero la historia no me ha atrapado en ningún momento, no he sentido la necesidad de seguir leyendo y es por eso que he tardado tanto tiempo en terminarla, he pasado días sin tocar Amor no correspondido y los días que lo hacía no leía más de 30 o 40 páginas.
She has a way of making every day life in little British towns seem so interesting and enthralling that I never want to leave.
I felt like I was there with her each step of her odd journey.Pym also has a way of making little side characters interesting enough that when they take full control of the story you are not thrown off, but not so much that the take away from everything else.
From Paul the flower guy to Dulcie's niece, I was hooked.I highly recommend Pym to people who like books like Stoner or Gilead.
Review to be up soon !! Loved the voice and wit of Barbara Pym and I am so happy to have made a discovery and foray into her writing :)
Dulcie Mainwaring è una zitella - ma per la Pym è sufficiente un fidanzamento andato a monte per iscriversi alla categoria, anche se si è sotto la trentina - e avendo rinunciato a causa della sua zitellaggine ad aspettative personali, si dedica ad osservare le vite degli altri.
L'ironia, le tazze di tè a consolazione di ogni affanno, l'alto numero di uomini di chiesa che, grazie alla appartenenza alla chiesa anglicana, sono altrettanti ottimi partiti; gli ingredienti ci sono tutti per iscrivere la Pym alla categoria delle zitelle britanniche, di cui la Austen è l'illustre capostipite; una categoria che è garanzia di piacere della lettura.
I don’t know why but this makes me absurdly happy.The main character of No Fond Return of Love is Dulcie Mainwaring who decides to attend a weekend conference on publishing (she works freelance as an indexer and research) to help her get over her broken engagement.
‘I love finding out about people’, said Dulcie, ‘I suppose it’s a sort of compensation for the dreariness of everyday life’.
It’s all very Pymsian as their lives intertwine, making the London suburbs seem like cozy village rather than a sprawling metropolis.
No. This is instead a gathering of worthy cleaners: of those who scrabble to identify and claim their ordered places through the housekeeping work of preparing learned manuscripts for the published glorification of authoritative academics.
Through the maze of social uncertainty and angst which forms the meat of the remainder of this book, the plot finally winds-up with a second stamp of that trademarked enigmatic bittersweet Pym(re)gret; this time left hanging on the inside of window in Ladbroke Grove in (the less fashionable) North Kensington.
But this is much closer to Jane Austen (who is mentioned, along with a lot of funny metacommentary about what it means to be a writer and flesh out a character) than to today's standard page-turning, sexual-tension-driven, in-search-of-a-better-life-romance that has to end up with an obvious happily ever after.
I also thought that this sort of story was what J.K. Rowling was trying to achieve in "The Casual Vacancy," and I like Pym's work better.I really l liked it; as advertised, it's like sitting down for a cup of tea with knitting, and I felt time slow down around me as I read.
This is a quiet English novel about a single woman working a quiet job.
Her fiancé broke off their engagement and she now lives alone in her deceased parents' house.
By all descriptions in the story, she is dowdy and boring, but she slowly insinuates herself into other people's lives and in doing so, creates a new more interesting life for herself.
I almost gave up halfway through as it is not a page turner, but the ending was worth the reading.
While I usually like more action in my reading, there is a place for quieter stories and I will give Barbara Pym another try.
I loved everything about this book.
You'd be forgiven for dismissing Barbara Pym's novels as quaint and old-fashioned.
They're full of dotty old vicars and eccentric spinsters and church jumble sales.
The story is mainly told by Dulcie, a thirty-something single woman who, after a broken engagement, is quite happily settling into spinsterhood.
Fascinated by these odd creatures(and hot for the dashing Aylwin), Dulcie starts snooping around in a very roundabout way, although she doesn't consider it snooping but research.
She takes it seriously too, and her sleuthing leads her to Alwyn's brother, who naturally turns out to be a vicar (just looking someone up in Who's Who is too dull for Dulcie).
My mother had been urging me to read Barbara Pym for years and I had resisted.
Perhaps I'd picked one up too early and thought its gentle humour dull.
How wrong I was.Comparisons to Jane Austen abound with Barbara Pym and it is hard not to see why.
The characters are beautifully observed and judged.The story is about love and is again similar to Austen in that it depicts women who have limited social choices.
The protagonist is in her early thirties and is consigned to the social dustbin - her only hope of amusement is doing "good works" for the church.
Bueno, tengo que admitir que un poquito de decepción me he llevado, teniendo en cuenta el éxito de la autora.
Más que nada es que los personajes tanto femeninos como masculinos me han parecido un pelín inmaduros en muchos casos.
Hay situaciones inverosímiles y el protagonista principal, al que persiguen todas las mujeres por alguna razón que no he logrado comprender del todo, cae mal.
Pero al contrario de lo que puede parecer por lo que he dicho, la historia resulta muy entretenida.
Tengo que reconocerle a la autora que escribe de una forma muy amena.
Once again, what a pleasure to withdraw into Barbara Pym's world of ordinary people to whom nothing much happens but to whose joys and grievances one can relate so well. Like enjoying a cup of tea and a (chocolate) biscuit while sitting in a comfy old chair. Or like a time machine trip to early 1960s London, simply wonderful.
чарівний текст зі старими дівами й літніми панями, яким уже десь тридцять. утім, поступово всі стають такі прилаштовані, аж любо глянути.але що більше дивишся, то глибші сумніви: а чи треба їм ця радість?
On the cover of my paperback is a quotation from AL Rowse: "I could go on reading her for ever." I sort of feel the same way about Barbara Pym. She's impossible to get tired of.
It's that dry, keen-eyed, wholly unsentimental voice I like.
Here we have a small circle of characters, centring on Dulcie Mainwaring, an intelligent single woman in her 30s, a bit lonely but not at all pathetic, not too sure what kind of life she might have, what kind of life might be available to her.

What a lovely and funny book. So very very british. My favorite lines were: "The silence in the room was broken only by the sound of water being poured out into glasses -- perhaps the most dismal sound heard on an English holiday.""Sitting aimlessly in bedrooms- often on the bed itself- is another characteristic feature of the English holidays. The meal was over and it was only twenty five past seven. 'The evening stretches before us,' Viola said gloomily."
I'm reasonably certain that no one has ever referred to a novel by Barbara Pym as "action packed," but there is a quiet elegance to the way she writes about people making do in lives they had not envisioned living. And she's wise and funny in her observations of various characters' foibles and pretensions. I'll be back for more.
Wel wat smachtende vrouwen (al klinkt smachtend een beetje te romantisch voor Pym: weifelend is misschien een beter woord).Enfin, het boek is beter dan ik in een paar zinnen kan weergeven.
Verbijsterend dat hierna bijna vijftien jaar geen uitgever nog iets van haar wilde uitgeven omdat men haar boeken te ‘ouderwets’ vond: iemand die zo goed kan schrijven en observeren!
Maar misschien is haar werk hier en daar ook te intens Brits om hier grootschalig succes te kunnen hebben?Viola sighed, for she was to spend the holiday with her parents at Sydenham.
Hace bastante tiempo leí «Jane y Prudence» y me pareció más bien soso, pero me alegro de que eso no me haya impedido darle una oportunidad a este otro libro de Barbara Pym porque me ha encantado de principio a fin. Para los fans de la novela inglesa costumbrista «Amor no correspondido» es un sueño hecho realidad, una auténtica maravilla.
Oh what a surprise this book was for me. I wonder if this was the inspiration for the Dalhousie novels, because it reminded me a good bit of those musings.
3,3
In an attempt to shake off the bad feelings she decides to attend a professional conference and there encounters Viola Dace, a rather cynical and lackluster middle-aged woman, and Aylwin Forbes, an editor and very handsome middle-aged man.
But Aylwin doesn’t seem interested in Viola and by the end of the conference Dulcie’s curiosity about him has been thoroughly piqued.
Dulcie developing feelings for him seems utterly bizarre.However, I was saved from being completely discontented with the book by what I imagine are Pym’s signature strengths.
