https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/249747.Artemis_Fowl
A VISION CAME TO ME TWO MOONS AGO, WHEN I WAS GAZING DEEP INTO HIS MAJESTY’S OWN PHLEGM POT.
THIS IS WHAT THE PHLEGM TOLD ME: IN THIS TIME, ONE SHALL COME AMONG US.
THERE IS ANOTHER STORY TO COME, SOMEONE WILL BRING THE PEOPLE AND MUD MEN TOGETHER.
I HAVE BURIED THIS PROPHECY WITH MY PHLEGM POT.
IF YOU ARE NOT FORTUNATE ENOUGH TO WORK AS A POT CLEANER, THEN THERE IS USUALLY A SUPPLY OF PHLEGM EVERY TIME YOU HAVE A COLD.
BUT BECAUSE OF THE IMPORTANCE OF MY VISIONS, I SHALL REPEAT THE PROPHECIES ONCE MORE.
(A-) 81% | Very GoodNotes: Ironically, it's the supernatural characters that follow familiar archetypes, while the humans are strange and atypical.
The Lower Elements live underground, having been driven there by the Mud People (or humans).
Pg. 50 The only good thing about going to the toilet was the minerals being returned to the earth, but the Mud People had even managed to botch that up by treating the …stuff…with bottles of blue chemicals.
That is the basis for the plot of the book, but for some reason, the fairy race has decided to hide, while these cruel humans destroy the earth that they care about so much.
I don’t know about you, but it sounds like the fairies are just as capable as humans in the production of weapons of cruelty.
If you are at all young at heart or you just want to read something different from your usual fare, then check out this book.
The family is on the brink of bankruptcy, but not for long, if Artemis has anything to do with it.
I picked this book up on a lark, looking for something different to read.
Yet here is Colfer: in no regard funny, with no insights to give, characters unremarkable, dialogue predictable, plot convenient, philosophical outlook insulting, unable to capitalize on an interesting concept, and enough of a self-absorbed jerk that he ruins even simple stories by trying to impress people with references to things he knows nothing about.Mr. Gaiman,I know you are a Goodreads author, and one of Adams’ fondest fans, so I must ask you: how could you let this happen to me?
After multiple attempts by the LEP (Lower Elements Police) fairy police, including sending a dwarf called Mulch Diggums, it concludes with Artemis finally releasing Holly Short, the elf fairy, whom he kidnapped, and having his mother cured of madness (in exchange for half of the gold that he had stolen from the fairies).
Also, the kleptomaniac dwarf Mulch Diggums, erroneously presumed dead, has taken some of the returned half of the gold and escapes to the U.S. 1.
اما حتی او هم پیش بینی نمیکند که با گروگان گرفتن یک جن، خودش را درگیر چه جنگی میکند؛ چون این جن، سروان هالی شورت از واحد نیروی ویژه ی پلیس، در سرزمین جن هاست.
I figured everyone in the world has read this but me and thought I would catch up.
I don't know what I thought it was going to be but I didn't expect a 12 year old genius villain!
The fairies, dwarves, trolls, and the silly things that happen, I giggled so much.
It was so silly I can see why kids love this book.
I am definitely going to read more.
If my grandkids haven't read these I am going to tell them about it.
The narrator was wonderful with all the variety of voices from the fairy girls to dwarves.
I haven't tired of this formula just yet, plus Colfer has handled it well and crafted a fast, short read that doesn't give you much downtime to reflect on any potential faults.I found this book to be very similar to Jonathan Stroud's The Amulet of Samarkand with its snarky protagonist, its magic-in-a-modern-setting, its fantastical creatures and its infusion of light-hearted comedy (Things slowing down due to necessary exposition?
Throw in a fart joke!).You can tell Colfer did a bit of research into mythology and magical beings, as we see some creature attributes from the old traditions.
A solid, amusing start to this YA fantasy series, about a twelve-year-old millionaire evil genius.
Okay, he's not really evil, but he is into criminal heists, especially since the family wealth is gone, his father has disappeared, and his mother is mentally ill, out of touch with reality.
So Artemis, having used his brilliant mind to figure out that fairies are real, decides to restore the family fortune by kidnapping a fairy and holding him or her for for ransom.
Fairy gold, that's the ticket!Now Artemis and his assistants are up against the military and police forces of faerie.
CHARACTERS    Artemis Fowl  [ of course  ](Doesn't this name sounds Awesome!!!)No need to say, he is a super genius criminal.
But that's what makes this book different in my opinion.I loved him.
Due to this, Protagonist's Mother, becomes a mental patient.Artemis Fowl 2 vows to regain the family's fortune.
By a very unique way:(view spoiler)[ He finds a book of fairies and gets to know everything about them.
So her commander orders her to perform the ritual to regain the magical powers otherwise she cannot enter the underground world again.While performing the ritual, she is kidnapped by Artemis Fowl.
(hide spoiler)] Overall , I enjoyed this book!
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge #9: A book about a villain or antiheroI so wish I'd read this as a kid. I would have devoured the entire series in a matter of days! However, as an adult, this book isn't much more than a fun fantasy adventure, so I can't give it any higher than 3 stars. It was entertaining, but nothing special in the long run. (Highly recommend it to all kids though!!)
Artemis Fowl, though entertaining and often well told, is one of those books that has bound itself with the shackles of pandering to a perceived audience and thus will never rise above a certain level.
The main faerie character, Holly, is a girl trying to break her way through a glass ceiling that no one seems to notice throughout the book except to note that she has broken it.
The main character, although a bit shallowly described is likable and fun.
In addition, although it sounds insane to ask for a rational and coherent system behind a hidden race of faeries, I believe this is one of the lines that separates good fantasy from run-of-the-mill fantasy.
Artemis Fowl is the kind of book that grabs a kid by the eyeballs because of the pretty, shiny cover.
A better character a teenager could not have asked for: Smart enough to forgo schooling for months at a time, rich beyond my (then considerable, now perhaps less so) imagination, and he was searching for a world of magic and fairies that every kid wants to believe in.It surprises me that even now, a decade later, the book still absorbs my imagination.
"Artemis Fowl" taught me a little about writing for your audience exactly because the book is just as enjoyable and relatable as it was before.
"A genius. A criminal mastermind. A millionaire. And he is only twelve years old." Artemis Fowl by Eoin Colfer is my favorite book ever. EVER! I read it for the first time when I was fourteen years old and have been reading the series ever since. I've re-read the book over and over again. I can't even remember how many times I have read it but by now this book feels like an old friend and it's just as amazing as when I read it the first time. Now that I've re-read it once again, I think it's ti
Artemis Fowl by Eoin Colfer is my favorite book ever.
Now that I've re-read it once again, I think it's time for a review!When Holly Short gets abducted by Artemis Fowl II, a child prodigy from Ireland because he wants to ransom her for fairy gold, the book really gets going.
I love everything she stands for and even though there aren't that many female characters in his books, when there is, you can bet she'll end up having a very strong personality and being able to kick butt.
Artemis and Holly aside, we also have Butler, Juliet, Commander Root and Foaly.
Artemis Fowl (or should that be Foul?) is an interesting mix of Lex Luthor and Encyclopedia Brown.
But the fairy world is not going to just roll over and submit to Artemis’ demands, especially not Captain Holly Short, who is being held captive in Fowl Manor.It’s a quick read, well written.
If I was part of the intended demographic, I would probably be more impressed, but it’s a bit tame for adult tastes.
Colfer gives amusing names to his characters, like a butler named Butler and a centaur named Foaly.Looking for summer reading for your 10 year old?
Consider Artemis Fowl!
বয়স সবে ১২! কিনতু এরই মাঝে অপরাধ জগতের এক বিসময় ছেলেটা। হবে না-ই বা কেন? এটাই যে তার পরিবারের ঐতিহয। ফাউল পরিবার অপরাধ জগতের রুই-কাতলা পরিবার। কিনতু কালের বিবরতনে বিপুল সমপততির উললেখযোগয অংশ হারিয়ে বসেছে ফাউল পরিবার। সেই ফাউল পরিবারের সরবকনিষঠ সদসয আরটেমিস ফাউল এ বইয়ের পরদান চরিতর। বাবার অনতরধানের পর থেকে একাই পারিবারিক বিষয়আশয় সামলাচছে ছেলেটা। পরিবারের হৃত সমপততি আবার আগের মতো ফুলিয়ে ফাঁপিয়ে তুলতে চাইছে সে। আর সেজনয অবলমবন করবে একেবারে ভিনন এক পথ!মানুষের অতযাচারে জরজরিত হয়ে এখন পাতালে বাস করে র
এটাই যে তার পরিবারের ঐতিহ্য। ফাউল পরিবার অপরাধ জগতের রুই-কাতলা পরিবার। কিন্তু কালের বিবর্তনে বিপুল সম্পত্তির উল্লেখযোগ্য অংশ হারিয়ে বসেছে ফাউল পরিবার। সেই ফাউল পরিবারের সর্বকনিষ্ঠ সদস্য আর্টেমিস ফাউল এ বইয়ের প্রদান চরিত্র। বাবার অন্তর্ধানের পর থেকে একাই পারিবারিক বিষয়আশয় সামলাচ্ছে ছেলেটা। পরিবারের হৃত সম্পত্তি আবার আগের মতো ফুলিয়ে ফাঁপিয়ে তুলতে চাইছে সে। আর সেজন্য অবলম্বন করবে একেবারে ভিন্ন এক পথ!মানুষের অত্যাচারে জর্জরিত হয়ে এখন পাতালে বাস করে রূপকথার প্রাণী—ফেয়ারিরা। প্রযুক্তি ও জাদুকরি ক্ষমতায় মানুষের চাইতে যোজন যোজন এগিয়ে ওরা। ওদের কাছে রয়েছে ধনসম্পদের অফুরন্ত ভাণ্ডার। সেই ফেয়ারিদের একজনকে কিডন্যাপ করে মুক্তিপণ হিসেবে বিপুল পরিমাণ সোনা বাগিয়ে নিতে চাইছে আর্টেমিস!
All in all, a perfect bit of escapism for the adolescent male reader.However reading it as an adult you tend to start rooting for the fairy he is trying to kidnap, as Artemis really is a little a***hole.
There is not really enough meat on the plot either; it is difficult to remember that far back but I am sure that when I was the right age for this book I would have wanted a bit more detail about the hows, whys and wherefores to his great plan.
well I jumped on this book quicker than a bottle of wine being uncorked!Artemis Fowl was such an interesting and enjoyable book.
He's brilliant, evil as fudge, and a ruthless bastard all wrapped into one!
Oh, did I forget to mentions he's also en evil millionaire mastermind?!?!
He's like the Doctor Evil and the Mini Me all combined into one person!
I loved it!Artemis, is bad, but soooooo freaking lovable.
I loved all of the magic too throughout this book.
I loved Holly, even though she was captured by Artemis..
I can't wait to dive into the second book because I NEED MORE FROM ARTEMIS!
I have always really loved Holly Short, the fairy that Fowl captures to catapult his plan into action, and secretly always fantasised about playing her in a film version, and this book just helped remind me of all the ways she is great.This book had me laughing, gasping, reminiscing and was a plain old good time and I'm SO GLAD I decided to reread it!!
To be honest I haven't read the whole book, and there is a slim chance that I might try to continue and so I post this review.The problem is that the onslaught of cheap jabs at the "barbarian humans" destroying the earth is becoming extremely irritating.
And miraculously Ireland is still nice and green, but give those humans a few hundred years and it will be destroyed.
And frankly calling me a barbarian and trying to make me feel guilty about killing whales (in eco-destroying lead ships)I haven't killed, is NOT going to make me sympathetic to your causes.
So off Artemis sets on a world jaunt to discover the secrets of the fairies, and his ambitions and delusions finally pay off--he meets an alcoholic sprite who, in exchange for the return of her magic, lets Artemis get a good look at her Book.
The Book, you see, contains all the mandates, rules, and regulations (along with a slew of secrets) of the fairy world--and now Artemis Fowl is able to hatch his nefarious scheme.
As for Holly Short, you love the fairy, admire her tenacity, yet hope at the same time that she spares the lives of Artemis, Butler, and Butler's sister, Juliet.
In other words, I like the story itself: with his family's wealth dangerously on the wane, criminal mastermind and 12 year old boy, Artemis Fowl, formulates a bold plan to kidnap a fairy and seize a ransom of gold.
This was exacerbated by a acerbic narrative voice that sometimes served the story but also unfortunately dulled character development to a sheen above caricature but below fully formed.So the incident, the kidnapping and its consequences, is a fine idea for a chapter book, hip hip hurrah, but the execution was not to my liking in ways that may or may not matter to you or its target audience.For me another big muck up included the vision of fairies.
I've seen these books in the stores for a while, but had actually steered clear of them because I thought they were just a Harry Potter knock off.
Who am I to pass up a bargain?Well, let me just say, it is not a Harry Potter knock off!
The leprechauns are actually LEPrecons (Lower Elements Police Recon officers), the fairies use nuclear powered battery pack wings, and the lead character, while a young boy, is a brilliant criminal mastermind.
I highly recommend it to either a fantasy fan, or a young adult/children's literature fan.
This book was exactly what I wanted it to be: fun, fast-paced and entertaining. It has an original and action-packed plot, compelling characters and very interesting world building. I flew through it and if I owned the rest of the books in this series there's a real chance I wouldn't be getting much else done today.
Una lectura ligera y entretenida. El sentido del humor de Colfer me resultó similar al de Terry Pratchett (salvando las distancias, claro; Terry es único) y el hecho de que el protagonista fuera un villano me gustó mucho.(Reseña pendiente)
I read Artemis Fowl at least five times as a child and I LOVED IT. As a young twenty-something adult it was just as good all over again. This book is a masterpiece from Captain Holly to Commander Root to Butler and the devious Artemis Fowl himself. The narration of the audiobook is also fantastic.Read my book reviews at: http://atlasrisingbooks.wordpress.com
Well, looks like my 14-year-old was right--it was as bad as I remembered.
The concept was nice, but terrible execution and the plot got too muddled in the middle.
Epically.And Artemis struck as a wee sexist.
He doesn't want to hurt a girl because she reminds him of his mother and his friend, Juliet.
The author might be trying to show that Artemis is actually a nice guy, but the way I see it, there are only two options: Oedipus Complex or sexist jerk.
It's gotta be one of them.If you want a fun middle-grade book with mythology elements, read Percy Jackson instead.
OMG I HEARD THEY'RE MAKING A MOVIE WHAT THE FRICK!!! Are you one of the people who are obsessed with antiheroes? (Like me lol) Ahhh, hi, nice to meet you. I think I've found the perfect book/series for you!This is a book about an evil, millionaire mastermind kid called Artemis. He's honestly evil and ruthless and a total bastard and I LOVE it. This series also has magic and a super cool, badass LEPrechaun called Holly. Freaking fabulous! (And it just gets better with each book!)
This book is an interesting mix of fantasy and scifi. Hi-tech meets the fairies. I loved its world building especially all the lore on the fairies, their location, their rules and regulations etc. Artemis a genius, but my favorite characters were Butler, his butler, and Captain Holy Short, a fairy who is his victim. The book is a quick read. It will be hard to put it down even if you have to. :)
much better then i thought it was going to be,but there were no surprises in the plot.
