https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17448960-falling-into-you
4.5 stars A dark, emotional read filled with pain and loss but also love and hope.
Surviving isn’t strength, it’s continuing to breathe one day at a time; strength is learning to live despite the pain.”  I love Jasinda Wilder’s writing.
“I wanted nothing more than to climb into the box with him and quit breathing, find him in whatever came after life.”  At the funeral was where Nell saw Colton for the first time since she was a kid.
Two years later, in NYC, Colton runs into Nell and can see that she has still not let go of the pain of losing Kyle.
Oh. Mon. Dieu!! This was such a rollercoaster of a book as you run the gamut of so many emotions. It takes you from sappy happy right down to the depths of despair and then guides you slowly back to happiness but not without an deeply anguished journey first.I guess, if you’re reading my review, then you’ve read the blurb above. As you read the first part of the novel about Nell and Kyle and their budding high school romance you know that something terrible is just around the corner and, as you
She’s just a guilt-ravaged shell of the carefree, optimistic, hopeful girl she once was.Colton has also had his share of tragedy and a difficult past and he completely recognises the pain that he sees in Nell.
It’s beautiful to watch how they slowly shared their experiences with one another and gave all that awful grief an outlet.
Jasinda Wilder made me cry, she made me happy, she even made me laugh but most of all she gave me a beautiful, emotional romance that I will NEVER forget.
I wasn’t always in love with Colton Calloway; I was in love with his younger brother, Kyle first.  Nell Hawthorne and Kyle Calloway have been best friends since the day they were born. They are neighbors, born in the same hospital two days apart, and basically grew up together. Now they are both 16. They both feel more than friendship towards each other, so they start to date. They go from a best friend love, to a romantic love.And now we’re learning how to fall in love together. I don’t care w
Nell Hawthorne and Kyle Calloway have been best friends since the day they were born.
Where they are going to go to college, Kyle wants to marry Nell.
Nell feels like she is to blame for Kyles death.
At Kyle’s funeral, Nell sees Kyle’s older brother, Colton, for the first time since they were kids.
Colton wants to be there for Nell.
The main thing Colton tries to get through to Nell is...
Loved seeing into his past and getting to know what made him the man he is now.
Colton knows Nell is special, but its hard for them.
You’re lovely.
★★★★1/2! Falling into You. Poignant, beautiful & intense story of love, loss, grief, guilt, healing & second chances!  Anyone who has ever lost a loved one still a teenager or child knows that gaping void. Yet this story is a reminder that life oftentimes has a way of turning out OK not because of everything that happened, but in spite of it!  Story is alternating between Nell’s and later Colton’s POV (in first person).   “I wasn't always in love with Colton Calloway; I was in love wi
Falling into You. Poignant, beautiful & intense story of love, loss, grief, guilt, healing & second chances!
Such a beautiful innocent love that would never again be.Nell and Kyle’s brother, Colton see each other at Kyle’s funeral and they apparent that they both feel a special connection, but the timing isn’t right.
You’re lovely.
Colt sees Nell and recognizes a lot of warning signs yet he feels this connection, this attraction and this need to save her even though he knows he can’t:
Falling into you is a story of grief, pain, self-loathing, healing, love and second chances.
“I’m not just falling in love with you, Nell.
INTO YOU is a dark, steamy, sexy NA romance that aims for heart, punches you in the gut, and then, finally, lifts your spirits sky high.
The very first sentence sets the powerful tone for the entire book: "I wasn't always in love with Colton Calloway; I was in love with his younger brother, Kyle, first." It only took reading that single sentence to convince me to read this book, as I couldn't help but wonder about the brothers and what went wrong.
For Nell and Colton, survival is about learning how to live life on their own terms, and not through the dreams their parents wished for them as young children.
When life crushed their spirits, and their young dreams faded away, pain became their welcomed friend.
I had thought it was going to be a New Adult story with some steamy scenes, but alas, this book consists of a slew of hastily written, badly paced plot devices weaved awkwardly between sex scenes.
The strangest thing is that, even though the sex scenes were (I thought) fairly well-written, they seemed rushed, too.
Was the entire thing rushed?
(hide spoiler)]If you enjoy a story to go along with the sex (and if you hate a lot of needless emotional fuckery), steer clear of this book.
10+ Stars!!I've been trying to pull myself together since i finished reading this book about three and a half hrs ago...and NO LUCK!! I'm not really great at reviews but here it is..Nell and Kyle:Oh it is a beautiful, verge-of-innocence, experiencing love for the first time experience for these two. Best friends, who discover that there can be something more between them, and you really feel the connection here with these two! Unfortunately something horrific happens and Kyle is ripped away fro
I'm not really great at reviews but here it is..Nell and Kyle:Oh it is a beautiful, verge-of-innocence, experiencing love for the first time experience for these two.
Unfortunately something horrific happens and Kyle is ripped away from all that he loves...Nell:Oh boy!
We first meet Colton at Kyle's funeral, and he's nothing more than a shoulder for Nell to lean on, and he surprises her by handling her grief alot different that everyone around her, which she appreciates.
I was surprised at how deep and dark this book got with Nell dealing with her grief and Colton's past and "disability".
Reread 2/6/2016...just as good as the first time!  "I wasn't always in love with Colton Calloway; I was in love with his younger brother, Kyle, first."  With a first line like that, you know this is going to be a tough, gritty, dark book and it definitely is. Nell grew up with Kyle and they did everything together. It helped that they were neighbors, their mothers were friends and they were born only two days apart. When Nell can finally date, Kyle's best friend asks her out. Unfortunately when
With a first line like that, you know this is going to be a tough, gritty, dark book and it definitely is.
Enter Colton, Kyle's older brother, and now Nell will definitely never be the same.
I really enjoyed getting Nell and Colton's POVs. It was intriguing to see the similar things they both went through.
I've heard there's going to be another book, Falling Into Us. JW has said it's not a sequel or a change of POVs but more of an expansion of what everyone went through and more Nell and Colton.
"I wasn't always in love with Colton Calloway; I was in love with his younger brother, Kyle, first.”This book was the absolute saddest "f"ing book I've ever READ!!!!
This book is going to be very hard for me to review because honestly, I don't like sad books....at ALL!!!
So I'm going to start with a general description and then I will get to my feelings on this book.This book is about Colton and Nell.
They end up being each others true solace and it's beautiful watching it unfold........IF you like sad books!!
This book made me feel every word, every touch, every gut wrenching emotion in this story.
She still has not grieved for Kyle.She holds on to the pain, guilt and regret by dealing with them in her own unhealthy way.He knows he shouldn’t get involved, but he can’t help himself.
He can relate and knows what Nell needs to do to heal her deep wounds.Only when she lets go of her guilt can she slowly start the process of grieving.
~"I'm still trying to find the words to heal you, To take your pain and make it all my ownSo your beautiful eyes can smile,So you can be at peace.
BOOK TRAILER: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cAXSOi...Falling Into You will turn you into a sobbing, makeup-less insomniac…with unkempt eyebrows, and snot.We are told from the start that Kyle dies (Stop yelling at me, it’s in the synopsis).
You know it’s coming the whole time, but you pray.
You pray to God, Buddah, Asian monks, and Obama that it isn’t going to happen.
I even prayed that Jasinda Wilder would eventually jump up and yell, “Syke!!
What did happen was hurt, loss, love, and healing.
What Nell went through with Kyle is what made her perfect for Colton.In unrelated news, you know what works better than Kleenex to dry tears?
Jasinda Wilder’s writing can draw out every deep-seated emotion and feeling I ever knew existed within me and make it all so painfully beautiful as well as thrilling.This story starts out with childhood best friends to lovers; Kyle and Nell and their story is so sweet and tragically cut short.Nell deals with her guilt and sadness in self-destructive ways and it is not until years later when Kyle’s older brother, Colton comes into her life, does she start to heal and forgive herself.
“I’m not just falling in love with you, Nell.
3 1/2 to 4 stars This story was good and I enjoyed it–over-the-top angst and all–but my expectations were set a little too high due to all the hype. Happens.
And part of her died too.Nell is Numb, she feels the accident was her fault.She meets Colton, Kyles older brother at his funeral.
He lived and is still living with his pain...He helps Nell accept the pain, accept the hurt, how not to be okay and how to eventually Let it go.."You need to let yourself feel.
How can she feel more for him then Kyle..."I’m thinking this is the best moment of my life.
I’m thinking…I want to experience moments like this with you forever.”I absolutely love Colten, he is weak, yet so strong, smart, sexy...
Feelings all spilled into songs.."I’m not just falling in love with you, Nell.
Falling into You was like a checklist for everything annoying about romance.
In fact, the whole relationship with Kyle was so irritating that I wasn't even affected when he finally died (not a spoiler, it's in the blurb).
When Nell finally meets Colton years later, it's another disaster.
I'm from the New York area, and the idea that Colton, a rich white boy, would be welcomed into a street gang and then just leave when he felt like it was so fake that it made me want to throw my Kindle.
Seasoned romance readers used to something with substance should skip this one.
“We’re both haunted by the specters of our pasts, but we have to move on sometime and force the voice of our guilt to be silent.”  It’s been three days since I finished reading this book and I am still thinking about it, obsessing about it, catching myself re-reading passages, highlighting new ones. I can honestly say that I never expected to be blown away this completely and I most certainly did not expect to find a new favourite. This story will make you feel so many emotions you won’t know
As much as this book made me cry and it crushed my heart on so many occasions, it left me deliriously happy because I knew I had found a rare gem.We meet Nell as a young woman living a carefree life – she has a loving family, a blessed childhood, a best friend who has been in her life since they were kids.
We watch the friendship between them develop into something more, we watch them fall in love, experience all their firsts, we feel their bond in our hearts and we are giddy about every single happy moment they share as their relationship progresses naturally and effortlessly.
Nell and Kyle's story from the beginning was this beautiful portrayal of young love and all the firsts that people experience.
"I'm not just falling in love with you, Nell.
You're an ocean, and I'm falling in, drowning in the depths of who you are" ~ColtonThis has to be by far one of the most touching lines I've EVER read in any book.
I absolutely fucking love this book!!!
My cast: Colton Nell Kyle I wish I had more words to describe the way that this book has touched me.
“Better crazy than broken.”  I wasn’t sure where that came from, hadn’t thought it or meant to say it. “You’re not broken. You’re hurting.”Falling Into You is a beautiful story about a golden son and the troubled son and the girl who wound up loving them both. Circumstance brought them together in different times, one in happy times, the other, in broken times.  Nell Hawthorne  Kyle Calloway Kyle and Nell grew up together. Best friends since birth. Once Nell turns 16 and is allowed to start dat
You’re hurting.”Falling Into You is a beautiful story about a golden son and the troubled son and the girl who wound up loving them both.
Colton teaches Nell that it’s okay to cry.
Accepting the truth that they both deserve happiness and love doesn’t come easy to this couple, but it’s beyond beautiful when they do."Colton didn’t teach me how to live.
But it will make us feel better.He lets Nell be herself ,at the same time he coaxes her into talking about her pain, he in return shares about himself.
“I’m not just falling in love with you, Nell.
Wow wow, freakin' wow! Oh my life! That was amazing. Intense. Awesome. So inspiring!I was asked to review this book by the author and I had no idea what I was letting myself in for. Well, actually, that's a lie... I absolutely adored Jasinda Wilder's Wounded, so I knew I liked her writing style and I knew she had the ability to strike a chord in me. But, still... I'm mega excited to say that Falling Into You met my expectations, exceeded them, and some!  "I can tell you what I see. I can tell yo
I absolutely adored Jasinda Wilder's Wounded, so I knew I liked her writing style and I knew she had the ability to strike a chord in me.
I think we've both had our share of people trying to fix us.
Moments like this, with Colton?
and you fall in love with him.
Just like the booze.""But I need - ""You need to let yourself feel.
I can see it, feel it coming.
She's got so much pain, so many cracks and shards and jags in her soul, and I'm going to get cut by her if I'm not careful.
"I'm not just falling in love with you, Nell.
4.5 stars. Almost perfect.This was a beautiful story of love, loss, guilt, sacrifice, and healing. Best friends, then lovers, Kyle and Nell were a match everyone saw coming. I loved Kyle and Nell's relationship. It was so real. They were just kids, only 16, just discovering what love and lust really meant. Kyle was so sweet, and romantic, but this wasn't an idealized version first love, it was all very real.   "I know we are young. . . . . And I know most people would say we're just kids, or too
Almost perfect.This was a beautiful story of love, loss, guilt, sacrifice, and healing.
I loved Kyle and Nell's relationship.
Kyle was so sweet, and romantic, but this wasn't an idealized version first love, it was all very real.
Then just two years later, tragedy takes Kyle from Nell, leaving her in the depths of despair, unable to come to terms with her grief, and guilt.
She's got so much pain, so many cracks and shards and jags in her soul, and I'm going to get cut by her if I'm not careful.
"I'm not falling in love with you, Nell.
It really could happen to anyone!Jasinda Wilder did a great job of including those 3 "normal" scenes in this short book about sex...
Wait, what do you mean there are other things in this book except for the sex scenes?
Then you must be talking about that scene in which we miraculously find out that the two main characters are exceptional singers whose voices are like a damn angel choir.
The only thing that's left is the fact that Colton is in a gang?
Overall, this is a really fantastic book - you will learn so many things from it.
NOW FREEEE - http://amzn.to/1Erifzt and AUDIO is $1.995 Stars!!!!!! I’m not just falling in love with you, Nell.I’m falling into you. Falling Into You is a Fabulous. Fantastic. Swoon-Worthy. Emotional. Incredible. READ!!!I want to kick myself in the butt for waiting so long before I picked up this book. One of the reasons why I waited so long was because I wasn’t a fan of the blurb. Even though lately I have been liking depressing reads, I just didn’t want to get into the whole brother-death thi
Even though lately I have been liking depressing reads, I just didn’t want to get into the whole brother-death thing, but Falling Into You was JUST.SO.MUCH.MORE.[Summary/Blurb]The summary is basically everything you needed to know and after finishing my read, I realized how perfect the blurb was.
[Disclaimer]Many readers don’t want to read a book where a guy dies, I get it, but Falling Into You isn’t just about that.
In the beginning you don’t really get a clear picture of who Colton is, but slowly as his character develops, you form an attachment to him and yes, fall in love with him.Taking a moment to **SWOON** [My version of Colton]
"I'm not just falling in love with you, Nell. I'm falling into you. You're an ocean, and I'm falling in, drowning in the depths of who you are. Like you said, it's scary in a way, but it's also the most amazing thing I've ever experienced. You are the most amazing thing I've ever experienced." Damn, I love this book! Not like in a "it's really great" or "I was pleasantly surprised" kind of way. No, I love this book! Colt and Nell are both hurting, scarred and in need of a safe haven. The simple
"I'm not just falling in love with you, Nell.
I'm falling into you.
You're an ocean, and I'm falling in, drowning in the depths of who you are.
Like you said, it's scary in a way, but it's also the most amazing thing I've ever experienced.
You are the most amazing thing I've ever experienced."
Damn, I love this book!
No, I love this book!
Colt and Nell are both hurting, scarred and in need of a safe haven.
There's BIG feelings and BIG love and I wouldn't want it any other way.
Because it was one of the most beautifully written books I have ever read.Falling Into You topped the charts for me – you can’t read the synopsis and not know what you’re getting yourself into.
New love…first love…first everything, it’s the stuff that makes your heart flutter, and mine did with Nell and Kyle.“Kyle was my first one true love, my first in every way.”Fast forward two years, Nell & Kyle are 18, about to graduate high school and making some huge decisions…trying to figure out what they want while still keeping their relationship intact, everything is changing so it’s either adapt and grow with it or lose something precious.
I loved that my heart dived to my stomach and my eyes filled with big fat tears that just kept right on pouring through half the book and then some.
Falling into You was filled with a roller coaster of emotions, including angst, love, fear, pain, guilt, and a glimmer of hope.I adored Nell and Kyle together.
I wondered how the author was going to pull off her healing, how she would help her move forward past the grief, the pain, the guilt, the loneliness.
Colt understood the pain and the guilt that riddled Nell.
5 soul bearing, heart breaking stars."I'm not just falling in love with you, Nell.
You're an ocean, and I'm falling in, drowning in the depths of who you are." Jasinda Wilder, knows how to write emotion - gritty, sad, heart achingly moving emotion.
The story then follows the lives of Colton and Nell ~ The Journey of Nell grieving her past to take hold of her future.
Colton comes like a breath of fresh air, and although I didn't think it possible I fell in love all over again.
Undoubtably I fell in love with this story and the characters.
At sixteen years of age she was finally able to go out on a "real" date and she was brimming with excitement in typical teenage fashion she was..................We watch Kyle & Nell's relationship evolves and deepens.
I also had a little feeling that this was going to ....................................................The story had switched back to Nell's POV before then and when she find something out she did the last thing I thought she would do................................................I read that part and ......................................but Colton his a take charge kind of guy and there was no way he was going to let her go and he does the first thing I expected him to do!
4.75 Stars Fermented grief is far more potent.  HOLY SHIT! Man, this was just what I needed. I was so emotionally invested in Nell’s story, that I could not put this down and easily read this in one sitting. It’s emotional stories like this that make reading so much fun. Fuck. I was a blubbering mess by a third of the way through. It’s not really spoiler-ish considering you know someone important is going to die. I knew I was going to be a hot mess, but waiting for the axe to fall was excruciati
How can you move on from a loss like that?This was such a unique story simply because I fell in love with the first Hero, Kyle, only to have him taken away like that…well, it broke my heart into a million pieces, I’ll tell you that much.
Just like Nell, I found myself reluctantly drawn to Colton.
No wonder Nell ended up a fucked up mess.
“I’m not just falling in love with you, Nell.
Like you said, it’s scary in a way, but it’s also the most amazing thing I’ve ever experienced.
See my Giveaway and an interview with Nell and Colt Ana's Attic Book Blog5++++++ Fanfreakintastic stars! "I'm not just falling in love with you, Nell. I'm falling into you." Falling Into You by Jasinda Wilder broke me, then put me back together again. I can not move on, and I can say with absolute certainty, that this will be on my Best of 2013 list. No doubt about it. Jasinda sent me an advance copy for review, and I never read the blurb. I knew there was some major emotions...but I knew nothin
Jasinda did such a great job of capturing that first time, (a good first time) with your first love.As I fell deeper and deeper for Kyle over the years, I knew something would happen (it's in the blurb, but I didn't read it, so I'm not spoiling anything).
Not only did I learn to appreciate new music that I never heard of, it totally made the book an interactive experience.The next time Colton sees Nell, she is with another guy...a BIG guy.
Yay!-Watching young love develop in a not-icky way.-The heart wrenching emotion was replaced by happy tears.-You FELT while reading this book.
Falling Into You is the story of Nell Hawthorne, a beautiful young girl who has recently turned sixteen. Nell is so excited because her parents have allowed to her start dating. Nell has been best friends with Kyle the majority of her life and a reader gets the pleasure of seeing this friendship blossom into both of the characters first loves. ”And you’re still you. I’m still me. We’re still us, Kyle and Nell. But…just more, I guess.”~Kyle Nell and Kyle had the world at their fingertips when tra
Falling Into You is the story of Nell Hawthorne, a beautiful young girl who has recently turned sixteen.
Nell has been best friends with Kyle the majority of her life and a reader gets the pleasure of seeing this friendship blossom into both of the characters first loves.
We’re still us, Kyle and Nell.
You’re lovely.
”I want to lick your lips and bite them and kiss you until you’re fucking lost and gasping and puddled on the floor.”~ColtWell...shit.
I want that.~Nell
I hope we get a sequel or possibly an epilogue because I want more of Colt and Nell!
