https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/884288.Interesting_Times
Interesting Timesor,When Cohen Established that Dynasty That Timeor,Rincewind Gets a New Suit.I really enjoyed this Pratchett, being one of the few people who actually think that Rincewind is a likable anti-hero, or rather, a good runner.
But sometimes even good runners get caught in the affairs of Wizzards and revolution.
Okay, maybe it's Wizards and if I count him, it's only Wizzard, but you get the idea.
:)Welcome to China-ish, buddy!
The Emperor would like to meet you.
Or chop off your legs so you can more easily search for that head that you just lost.
Classic Pratchett.
And a welcome change from Ankh-Morpork.
Out of the entire Discworld main character cast, Rincewind makes the fewest decisions and has no desires other than to flee from trouble.
Scooby Gump?), his misadventures consist of finding himself in trouble, trying to escape, and then lucking out in some grand fashion.
While it makes for good entertainment, I respond better to characters who actually try to tackle problems, whether it be through scheming (Vetinari), trickery (the witches), or just good old-fashioned detective work (the City Watch).That being said, the highlights:-- The dialogue.
Hay una maldición.Dice:Ojalá vivas en tiempos interesantes. La quinta es la vencida, hasta ahora esta es la historia más sólida que leo del mundodisco sin dejar de ser graciosa, teniendo como protagonista a Rincewind el mago más cobarde que ha existido y que no importa que tanto trate de huir de todas las situaciones que se le presentan, los dioses o el destino, al parecer, siempre lo eligen como candidato para salvar al mundo. Los personajes del libro me encantaron especialmente  la Horda de p
La quinta es la vencida, hasta ahora esta es la historia más sólida que leo del mundodisco sin dejar de ser graciosa, teniendo como protagonista a Rincewind el mago más cobarde que ha existido y que no importa que tanto trate de huir de todas las situaciones que se le presentan, los dioses o el destino, al parecer, siempre lo eligen como candidato para salvar al mundo.
Resulta usted muy culto para ser un bárbaro —dijo Rincewind.
From the way the horde was trying to have another gloriously volatile and blood-spattering adventure (almost guaranteed considering that the Empire has ninjas and samurai!) to them wanting to learn to be "civilized" in order to adapt to the "modern times" (which is where Teach came in), not to mention Teach's origin story and why he thought he'd fit in nicely with Conan and his bunch ((view spoiler)[I happen to agree that being a teacher often prepares you for the most gruesome warfare *lol* (hide spoiler)]) - it was all hilarious and wonderful.
The Agatean Empire is just heading this way as its aging, demented Emperor is about to die and  five noble families who have fought one another for centuries: The Hongs, the Sungs, the Tangs, the McSweeneys ( very old established family) and the Fangs  gather their armies around the capital city of HungHung in preparation of the war of succession.
To help him overcome the forty thousand strong garrison of the citadel, not to mention the five hundred thousand strong armies of the five lords (The Hongs, the Sungs, the Tangs, the McSweeneys and the Fangs ) surrounding the city, Cohen has put together the Silver Horde - Discworld's answer to the  Magnificent Seven  francise.
Compared to Anhk – Morpork, which is practical and highly functional.Jet Li: Yes, but this was really a vehicle whereby Rincewind can be seen as a greater hero figure, leading up to The Last Hero a few years later, he and Cohen the Barbarian are the clear protagonists here, and China and the Discworld Agatean Empire are just a literary foil.Michelle: Lord Hong was a very effective antagonist, even if a caricature of Asian imperialism and hauteur.Jet Li: Yes, I did like Pratchett’s description of Hong and I also like that one of the great families was the McSweeneys, that was hilarious.Carradine: See?
So I really struggled with whether to give this two or three stars.
I felt if I gave it two stars, it would indicate that I didn't like this book at all.
There were lots of great things about this book, except it was tainted by the pervasive use of Asian stereotyping and the rehashing of the typical Rincewind plot.
So I added the extra star because of a return of an old character I really liked, the development of that character, and a few new ones (mainly Pretty Butterfly).
The joke with them is mostly that they’re so old you’d think they’d be incompetent but they are still the most deadly people in the room, even the one in the wheel chair, and there’s this whole thing about them trying to learn to be “civilized.” It mostly all works.The ending felt a little too coincidental for me, and again, it was mostly all surface level humor (although still very funny), so it’s definitely not one of my favorites in this series, but still a good read.
Rincewind in China22 August 2015 When my friend leant me this book he simply said 'Rincewind' at which I rolled my eyes. I must say that Rincewind is certainly not my favourite Discworld character, even though some of the books in which he has starred have been quite good. However I wasn't really expecting anything all that much to come from this book, even though it is one of the Discworld novels and I am slowly making my way through each of them (and it was also a bit of a time out from some o
In fact I really enjoyed this book, and even Rincewind was quite cool, especially when you appreciate the nature of his character (namely that his main rule of survival is to run away as fast as possible, and that a boring life is a good life because a boring life means that your lifespan is inevitably going to be much longer).
We all think that the Great Wall of China was built to keep the Mongal Hordes out (and good job it did to – NOT), however Pratchett suggests that that is not the case – it is designed to keep the people inside.
Rincewind gets recruited by Mustrum Ridcully and the faculty of Unseen University to go to the Counterweight Continent and the country of the Agatean Empire, Discworld's version of China (with quite a few Japanese bits).
It's also great to have Rincewind and the events of the very early Discworld novels integrated with the mostly separate Unseen University faculty cast that was established and continued from Reaper Man. But for me the highlight of the book was the Silver Horde and the return of Cohen the Barbarian, complete with his fantastic group of geriatric warriors.
Todo lo que vaya a decir a partir de ahora está influenciado por el hecho de que sigo leyendo la saga de los magos de MundoDisco sin que acabe de gustarme, simplemente por terminarla, para luego empezar otra a la espera de que quizás esta acabe siendo de mi agrado.Reconozco la maestría del autor para la ironía, su imaginación desbordante y su capacidad de parodia, capaz de abarcar a toda una sociedad o la idea tan limitada que podamos tener de ella pero estas historias no pasan para mí de entretenidillas.
On the whole, the Rincewind books are probably my least favourite subset of the Discworld series (with the exception of The Lost Continent, obviously).
It features Rincewind going to the Counterweight Continent, where Twoflower has been thrown in jail for distributing copies of his book about what he saw in Ankh-Morpork, which allowed the population to see how oppressed they've been blah blah blah.Overall, it was fairly enjoyable and I'm glad I finally reread it.
But I can probably go another five years or so before I reread this one, I suspect.
Together, the Horde are headed to the capital city of the Empire, looking to make the biggest heist in their long, long, long barbarian careers.Together, Rincewind, Cohen and the Horde find the Empire in the throes of a people's revolution, borne of righteous peasant rage and the skillful manipulations of the Grand Vizier, Lord Hong.Like so many Discworld books, this is a lot of fun to read.
And like most of the other Discworld books, this one gives you something to think about - what do you want to be?Rincewind wants to be left alone, because he thinks he'll be safer that way.
Este libro me ha emocionado, destrozado y hecho reír a partes iguales.Considero al señor Pratchett un maestro no sólo por su ingenioso sentido del humor y su amplia imaginación, sino por su capacidad de narrar historias que, además de sacarte varias carcajadas, te hacen reflexionar sobre la vida.En esta novela del Mundodisco (la quinta de la Saga de los Magos o Saga Rincewind), nuestro querido Rincewind se ve envuelto en esta ocasión en una aventura desarrollada en el Imperio Ágata.
Essentially this is silly, racist and obvious, a typical Rincewind book really. But to counter that you have a lot of fun with Cohen the Barbarian and to counter that you have and old man in a wheelchair whose sole purpose for being in the novel is to shout "What?!" to everything. Because he's deaf you see. Yeah it's that kind of Discworld book.
I hate writing this about a Terry Pratchett book but frankly this is really not one of his best.
It almost became a "dnf" though the end was quite entertaining.Having devoured the series from one it started and waited for each year's book I sort of drifted off probably a book or two before this one.
Reading this suggests I was right!
What is remarkable is just how good his writing became again later on.
The Tiffany Aching books are among the best he wrote (IMHO).
That said I'll probably read the other ones I've missed as time goes by.
I realize what Pratchett was going for.But Interesting Times just isn't funny--unless you like jokes about rape; jokes about paralysis and deafness; jokes involving ageism; fat jokes ("ARRGH!" = "your wife is a big hippo"--why not make it "your hat is a big hippo"?
Not this.I do believe that Pratchett did better in other books, and that he will be remembered for those works.
This was such a great trip, hanging out with Rincewind and Twoflower again, seeing Cohen take over an empire and thinking about revolutions.
My husband read this one immediately before I did and said, handing me the book, "I'm interested to know whether you think this is racist, or somehow parodying stereotypes of Asian people?" Having finished it, I too feel uncertain.This is a really funny book.
And as far as I'm concerned the book is made by Ridcully's absolute inability to accept that opposite points on a disc are traveling in different directions (both are going round and round!
And yet the humor around Chinese-people-are-sooooo-different-they-have-funny-names falls rather flat for me.
Pratchett tries to return to his earlier style with the lessons he's learnt along the way.
Unfortunately then he tries to combine that earlier, sillier style with multiple serious political discussions and several unrelated books, all in a setting that is, to put it mildly, culturally insensitive.
It doesn't work.There are some great lines, but by and large it's just too dull and despite its good qualities it outstays its welcome (50 pages of long, drawn-out ending doesn't help either).In my opinion the first real misfire of the series (distinct from the flaws of the crawling-on-baby-legs early books) Probably one for completists.
And let's be honest, a bad Pratchett novel is still an OK book that would make entertaining enough light reading.
It's not a bad book.
I rarely think of rereading this particular discworld book - not for any reason I can guess. My kids started reading this one aloud and sucked me right into it, and I am very glad. It is a truely delightful book, although we all tend to moan a bit about the awful things that Terry Pratchett came up with to keep doing to Rincewind.
Prečo existuje tak veľa kníh o Mrakoplašovi a tak málo o Barbarovi Cohanovi? Život nie je fér.
It’s been quite a few books since I’ve seen Rincewind, so it was fun to see him again.
If you’ve read the earlier books, you may remember that Rincewind once had some adventures with Twoflower, a visitor from the Counterweight continent.
In this book Rincewind finds himself, quite against his will of course, dropping in on the Counterweight continent and getting caught up in a revolution.
It was a lot of fun seeing Twoflower again, although we didn’t see as much of him as I would have liked.
The book alternates, for the most part, between the stuff happening with Rincewind and the stuff happening with the horde.
El contraste lo proporciona la Horda Plateada, grupo de ancianos bárbaros liderado por Cohen, que hace que todos los tiempos sean interesantes.
Juntos se enfrentan al Imperio Ágata, que gobierna de una forma que hace añorar las cadenas.Estamos ante una divertidísima novela sobre la civilización y la barbarie.
La Horda Plateada acapara mucho protagonismo y es todo un acierto.
La mejor novela de Rincewind y hasta ahora mi preferida de las que transcurren fuera de Ankh-Morpork, marca una evolución en la calidad narrativa de Pratchett en relación a sus dos primeras novelas.
Ojalá vivas en tiempos interesantes.
Eso es algo que le ocurre continuamente a Rincewind, y no podría haber mayor amenaza que esa para alguien que lo único que quiere es estar en una isla desierta sin nadie que le moleste.
Pratchett hace en esta novela un ensayo sobre la civilización y la barbarie, sobre lo políticamente correcto y sobre el papel del héroe en la sociedad moderna.Tal vez el envoltorio esté lleno de magos, baúles con patas y mundos a espaldas de tortugas, pero la esencia que cuenta el autor en cada libro es una lección de vida.Una pena que Pratchett no pudiera escribir otros 20 libros.
Yay for seeing Twoflower again! And any story with Cohen tends to be funny. I wish Lord Hong had been less one-dimensional though: his whole character revolved around "I can do everything better than everyone else." That gets boring very quickly. I would have loved to see him interact with Vetinari, since he held him in such high regard.
While Death only has a very small bit in this book, I still loved this one. Fate playing games with the others at the beginning is a great bit and there is lots to love in Cohen the Barbarian. I am saddened that after having finished this one, I only have fourteen Discworld books that I have not read now. Four stars.
I don't think I'd read this one before but I loved it. Though it's hard not to love a story with Rincewind in it!
Interesting Times is my best Rincewind book to-date *, which is bizarre to contemplate.
Besides, every other main character is far better developed but those would have to be killed, or maimed, or made to suffer, or at the very least, philosophized, and must therefore not be wasted in Interesting Times.
When a group of white, albeit comical, foreigners invade an Asian-like continent, with talks of rape and rapine, and all the while the local citizenry is portrayed as ignoramus and simpletons, and are immediately subservient to ruling change, it sits rather uncomfortably.
There is a distinct social hierarchy within the Agatean people - the peasants, the rebels, the learned, the rulers - but here, they are presented as a monolith.
It worked (for a given value of 'worked') for picaresque adventures like The Colour of Magic or the Light Fantastic, where the point was getting from one piss-take of fantasy cliches to another as quickly as possible.
Rincewind does get an absolutely brilliant speech on the stupidity of laying down your life for 'A Cause,' but this doesn't really become the *point* of the book in a way it would have done in other Discworlds.
Certainly there are a lot of cliched characters here but I think this misses the point a bit...
