https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/151313.A_Figure_in_Hiding

The Hardy Boys (and Nancy Drew) books were an assembly-line creation, always the exact same length, which doesn't leave much room for embellishment or you know, character development.
It's all action, all the time and the characters, including the Hardys, might as well be just props to move the plot along.
By the time I was 12 or so I was reading regular books (that were not written specifically for children).
Others might find them lacking, as I did.Addendum: I've just re-read about the history of the Hardy Boys line.
I gave it a ten out of ten or on this website 5 out of five because i like the Hardy boys.
it gets you into the story like you actually there fighting bad guys, driving a car, getting kidnaped and driving there boat.
i gave it a ten out of ten becaus the author is good, he wrote tons of these hardy boys books adventures because he likes people imagining what it is like to be them.
ilike this one because of the eye its a secret code and pasage into a the gang and they have to protect it becaues it leads to the crime of the stealing of the idle.
3.5 stars, it got a little bit confusing at the first 10 chapters, but chapters 10-20 got really exciting and action packed, overall a great read. I would recommend.Edit: I just finished reading the first edition, and it’s so much better. I could understand the whole mystery the whole time and I was never confused. If you were given the choice between first is revised editions, choose first for a figure in hiding...
I think that this book was like the others. It was adventurous and exciting in most of the parts. It also had some intense moments!!!! I would recomened this book!!!!!!
Things I liked about this book:- it had Chet in it- the father and son(s) relationship in being detectives- plot
The Hardy Boys and their friend Chet go to watch a movie with the same name as the title of this book.
He could have lead me into a life of crime by doing this to me.Back to the Hardy Boys.
Just after the movie lets out one of the boys sees that it is being help up, and then sees that the thief is getting away, so he pursues him.
The thief got away with $900.00.
what a way to spend a Saturday, reading this book, watering the yard and planting four new plants.
Note: 1937 printing of book.
This is merely more of the same as the previous books...but, that isn't a bad thing. Fans of this series probably know what to expect; if you're unfamiliar with it, let's just say these books are mysteries with plenty of excitement and adventure, plus squeaky clean content. Though these books may be marketed for kids, adults may enjoy them as well.
This book was leisurely paced and suspenseful with a ton of mystery added. The mystery really comes in when the blind peddler gives them the message about the eye and they find it on the boat and later in the book when it starts ticking.
The book I read is “A Figure In Hiding.” A Figure In Hiding is by the Hardy Boys have a huge series of books. The lexile level for this book is 750L. In the book A Figure in Hiding there is two main character's are Frank and Joe. There are on a mission to find out who did the Jewelry Sina. Then the got into a different mystery with the glass eye. To find out more good read the book. The setting really impacted Frank and Joe’s discovery’s. They can go to different cities because they have more pe
The book I read is “A Figure In Hiding.” A Figure In Hiding is by the Hardy Boys have a huge series of books.
In the book A Figure in Hiding there is two main character's are Frank and Joe. There are on a mission to find out who did the Jewelry Sina.
Then the got into a different mystery with the glass eye.
To find out more good read the book.
“Someone dropped a glass eye.
But the book was easy to read for me.
Go read a Figure in Hiding its a awesome book.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
NAIL BITING STORY! FRANKLIN W. DIXON IS ONE OF THE BEST AUTHORS OF ALL TIME!!
A glass eye...wow, was this an interesting mystery. Language, Abuse and Lust: 5 stars
I read one original Hardy Boys book per summer because that’s how mature I am.
good.
2.3 stars.
I only wish that current criminals would name themselves such things as "The Goggler Gang". This was a pretty good book.
The beginning was a little confusing but the book got better as it progressed.
Another fun and easy reading mystery
If this ever happened to me in life, the situation would be weird.How could a blind man that I have never talked to give me a card with a cat eye drawn on it, and on the back telling me to give it to my father.
I say this is the mood because I would be scared for my father, I would be scared that something would happen to him , it would also be a mystery because I still don’t know why this blind man would want me to give that message to my father .
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books.
The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.
Frank Hardy is the elder of the two and has dark hair.
Joe Hardy is the younger brother, and has blond hair and blue eyes.
The stories are an unaging series, in which Frank and Joe are always 18 and 17 years of age, respectively.
In the original series the brothers were a younger 16 and 15 years of age, but their ages were increased during the revision process that began in 1959.
This is a book from a boys' mystery series and the version I read was the original 1937 text.
A quack Dr. that goes to people's homes and charges them money to perform a fake operation on their eyes to restore sight?
How gullible were people in the 1930s?
One thing I learned in this book is that coincidences are astounding!
And of course the boys' dad is too busy meeting someone so the boys have to do all the dangerous detective work....This seems to be a well-loved series so who am I to pick it apart?
Well, I'll try reading another Hardy Boys mystery since I do own the whole series.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
In which the Chet-is-fat jokes get old again, crooks turn to plastic surgery to avoid the cops, and things get genuinely spooky.This is how you write a goddamn Hardy Boys book.
Dixon, Franklin W.
The book I'm currently reading to my sons...they love the Hardy Boys!
Excellent series for young readers - highly recommended. I read these books when I was 10 - 15 years of age.
The Hardy Boys get into a mystery after recieving a mysterious message.
Awesome!This book is absolutely thrilling, especially for ages 8-12! I highly recommend this book and all others in this series.
I like this book!
