https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/402971.Feudal_Society_Volume_1
Ganshof's work is careful, precise and legalistic, Bloch is impressionistic, bold and all about the big picture, his still the defining vision of a weak Europe out of which develops this curious resilient society.
The peculiar strength of Feudal society was that it was bi-directional, benefits and duties ran together, the grant of land required service to the grantor, but also gave legal authority over the people who worked the land.
I think that Marc Bloch is the historian that all current historians secretly (or not) wish that they could be.
Even if you're not a historian, you probably want to be like Marc Bloch too, and just don't know it yet.
There are chapters on literacy, the development of legal culture, and the pervading attitudes towards nature and time.
The first 150 or so pages could read like a selection from a general textbook on medieval history (that I really wish Bloch had written).
This forms the bedrock for the bulk of his study: the emergence and development of vassalage and feudal ties.
You can easily get sidetracked if you want, for example, stopping to further investigate the differences between feudalism and manorialism.A general breakdown of the book is as follows:Part I -The Environment: The Last InvasionsThis section focuses on the time around the fall of the Roman Empire and the subsequent invasions of Europe by the likes of the Hungarians, Moslems, and Scandinavians.Part II – The Environment: Conditions of Life and Mental ClimateIf you are reading this through for the first time, I actually feel like you could skip most of this section and come back to it later.
Certainly an undeniable classic in the field of "history of the middle ages".
I too have read Norman Cantor's "the Making of the Middle Ages" where he calls Bloch a Marxist (and maligns the entire Annales school).
I've also read more recent productions from the Annales school.
I have to say, based on this particular book, I don't really see where Bloch is a)romanticizing the peasant (another Cantor criticism) or b) a marxist.
It seemed to me that Bloch's explanation for the growth of feudalism was, basically, that central government decayed to the point where various muck a mucks needed to find an alternative way to "rally the troops" in the face of frequent small to mid size invasions.
One of those "ought to read" books for medievalists, though now perhaps more for its standing as the inspiration of much subsequent debate on feudalism than for its actual content. Some of Bloch's arguments have held up and have been used by later historians, but there's much here that's dated (his discussion of female lordship, for instance, or how he uses documentary evidence) or based on assumptions (Germanic kin structures, for instance). However, one still can't fault his main point that during the various stages of its development, feudalism was all about a tangle of politics and kinship.
Read this for a medieval studies class. But my affection for Marc Bloch began in a high school history course in which my teacher kept bringing up Bloch's ideas of a historical continuum I think it was. Don't remember much of what Mr. Bloch taught on the rudiments of Feudal Society. Mostly I remember the bleak landscape of UMass Boston, and myself transposed into a future feudal society, this largely being the result of my lifelong addiction to apocalyptic fiction of the sci fi variety.
Insightful and pleasant to read, Bloch's analysis of the development and maintenance of feudal structures and societies is one of the best I have read. Succinct but still rich in detail, highly recommended work from a premier medieval scholar.
În al doilea rând, conceptul definitoriu al lui Marc Bloch este cel de feudalism, care, în opinia sa, dincolo de multele sale sensuri, acoperă două realităţi sociale distincte, aici autorul deosebindu-se de cercetătorii care au privilegiat Res publica Christiana, Imperiul sau imaginarul religios drept trăsături fundamentale.Discuţiile recurente din domeniul relaţiilor internaţionale despre neorealism fac ca abordarea istoricului francez să ofere unele sugestii, chiar dacă vorbim despre o carte publicată în 1939-1940.
Lectură plăcută, lucrarea lui Marc Bloch îşi exercită încă influenţa prin intermediul succesorilor istoricului din şcoala Annales (MZ).________________________________________[1] T.
273-276.[5] Marc Bloch, La société féodale, Albin Michel, 1982, ediţie electronică, Université du Québec a Chicoutimi, http://classiques.uqac.ca/classiques/...
An insightful, revolutionary examination of medieval society, written by a predecessor of the Annales school of history. The Annalistes widened the traditional focus of historical scholarship from a simple focus on political and military events to a broader view of the wider aspects of social and economic environments that shape long-term developments within a society. Bloch's 1940 work is a seminal development in both the study of medieval history as well as the wider discipline itself.
p.good
Unfocused and confusing. Some good snippets, but I found my head hurting just trying to focus on the text.
To sum up, Bloch starts off with the internal breakdown of state power in early medieval Europe and the numerous external threats it faced, setting the stage for a society where power was increasingly local and based on personal bonds of allegiance - in other words a feudal society.
He then proceeds to analyse in-depth the nitty-gritty workings of these personal bonds and how they shaped both the workings of power and the mentality of the people, and this is where the book really shines.
To finish off, he explains how the growth of the power of the kings through increasingly effective state bureaucracies began to reduce the feudal character of these regions during the high middle ages.
A work of monumental erudition and breathtaking scope. A masterpiece in the truest sense of the word. We can only wonder what more he could have added had Bloch not been killed by the Nazis. (There is a touching story of an older Bloch-- tortured, battered and bloodied-- facing the Nazi shooting squad: "A kid of sixteen trembled not far from him. “This is going to hurt.” Marc Bloch affectionately took his hand and simply said, “No, my boy, it doesn’t hurt,” and fell first, crying out: “Vive La France!" (taken from the Annales d'historie sociale))
Bloch was and is a sort of a paradigm for scholars. When the Nazis invaded France he joined the French resistance in order to fight for his humanistic ideals; close to the end of the war he was caught by the Gestapo and executed. The Feudal Society was his last book.
A detailed and interesting study of Medieval life and times, by a fine French historian.
finally, done right
1381: The Year of the Peasants' Revolt is an easier read.
Excellent
I've read this book many times, and its lucidity continues to amaze me. Only Bloch can push the complex events together so cleanly.
KOBOBOOKS
This pretty much shows Marc Bloch at his most usual--a big generalist. There's nothing wrong with that, however. He helped get the ball rolling in the Annales School of History with that mindset.
One of my favorite books about the Middle Ages. I've read it twice, at least.
