https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18114335-pietr-the-latvian
I don't think I have ever read any Maigret before, but I have seen numerous different tv versions from Michael Gambon to Rowan Atkinson, and enjoyed the character.The book itself was atmospheric and a great murder mystery, with tension building all the way through the unfortunately so brief book.
I have enjoyed the latest Maigret on TV with Rowan Atkinson and was surprised to find that in the book he is a well build man not slim and wiry , that said having based my Maigret on a slim man I found this in no way detracted from my enjoyment of the novel.I shall be looking out for further Maigret novels.
There’s a distinct lack of glamour to this first Maigret mystery.
But in this novel everything is filtered through the doughty, solid presence of Inspector Maigret – a man who has no time for glamour.
In short he’s a man with no time for glamour and as such the book takes all these shiny elements and boils them down to a story of crooks and cops and very little in-between.
But then this is the doughty and solid Inspector Maigret, and Maigret doesn’t get excited.
Thank goodness for these Penguin reissues, I was starting to think I'd never find a copy.
Essentially Maigret follows a man around Paris for 160 pages after a murder on a train, the whole time learning to identify and sympathise with the criminal.
That's pretty typical stuff for the series but the eventual plot is so convoluted and revealed in such strange and unlikely ways that it all feels a bit rushed and flat.I wouldn't be surprised at all to find out that Christopher Priest had read this novel, such are the similarities with his very famous work.
La prima indagine del corpulento ed atipico commissario Maigret che darà il via ad una nuova modalità di concepire il romanzo giallo."In ogni malfattore, in ogni delinquente c’è un uomo.
Ma c’è anche e soprattutto un giocatore, un avversario: ed è questo che la polizia tende a vedere in lui, è questo che, in generale, affronta.È stato commesso un delitto o un comune reato?
La lotta viene ingaggiata su dati più o meno oggettivi, come ogni problema a una o più incognite che la ragione si sforza di risolvere.
"[Mi piacciono i gialli senza ispettori/commissari ecc...
A fairly solid police procedural, the start of a series featuring the dogged and somewhat dour Inspector Maigret. A relatively slow and convoluted mystery.The high light was the time period, setting and atmosphere of the novel. There were a couple of typos in this particular edition although nothing major.
The man who he witnessed leaving the train is settled in the exclusive Hotel Majestic consorting with millionaires; people seem to disappear and reappear, change names and appearance and yet Maigret is patient and gradually unravels the mystery.This is a darker read than most mysteries set in that Golden Age of 1930’s mysteries.
I feel glad that I have finally met the character of Maigret and discovered his fictional world and feel sure that I will read on in the series.
Maigret and the Enigmatic Lett is called by several names: In France, it was published as Pierre-le-Leton.
In English it goes by the names Suite at the Majestic, The Strange Case of Peter the Lett, The Case of Peter the Lett, and the title shown above.I keep coming back to Simenon's mysteries, both his Maigret novels and his non-Maigrets.
Maigret meets the train, sees Peter get off, and then is surprised to find there has been a murder on the train of a man who resembles Peter the Lett.
3.5 stars
I think this series can be read in any order, but I hoped to get a full introduction to Inspector Maigret, and I was not disappointed.
There was a bit more to the other non-reappearing characters than I might have expected, although to suggest they are fully fleshed would be an exaggeration.
Maigret is a Deputy Chief Inspector of the Flying Squad.
Not that I know what the Flying Squad is, or what equivalent might be in the US, but he does work in an official capacity, not as a private detective as does Poirot.
I do like French literature and as much as I like Poirot, I think I like Maigret slightly better.
La teoria della crepa Appassionato lettore di Simenon, ma non molto amante dei gialli, non avevo mai
Il mio primo Maigret, quindi prendete la votazione con le pinze. Sicuramente ce ne saranno altri in futuro, dove il mio giudizio sarà più veritiero.
Also published under the title of Maigret and the Enigmatic Lett and The Strange Case of Peter the Lett, this introduction to Maigret reveals a closed-mouth, almost taciturn man, large and infinitely patient and persistent.
Police are tracking a cocky criminal mastermind with the eponymous nickname, Pietr the Latvian, but, when following this dashingly well-dressed man onto a train, Maigret sees him leave the train, but a perfect double, dressed as a common factory worker, is found dead in the train’s washroom.
Who is the dead man?
And who was the man who left the train?
Primo episodio (almeno ufficialmente) della fortunata e famosa serie di Simenon avente come protagonista il commissario Maigret.Maigret era enorme e di ossatura robusta….
Aveva in particolare un modo tutto suo di piazzarsi in un posto che era talora risultato sgradevole persino a molti colleghi.Al di là del giallo, traspare già l’indole del commissario, l’intuito istintivo, la conoscenza dell’animo umano, la tenacia nei pedinamenti ed il rapporto personale con i sospetti ed i loro famigliari.
Svista dell’autore o che altro?La copertina dell’edizione Adelphi è una chicca: una foto del fotografo Brassaï, nel club gay “Le Monocle” a Parigi.
A pipe, a hat & a warm stove......welcome to the world of Inspector Maigret. Simenon's first Maigret novel, published in 1930, is a very enjoyable tale full of interesting characters, plot twists & even a bit of action. So, this is what I've been missing all these years. Mind you, I don't want to like him too much. It seems there are 75 novels & 28 short stories in the series. I'd better make some room on the bookshelves.
I'd only ever read his Maigret books so started with a couple of his Roman Durs (hard novels) - both The Mahé Circle and The Hand are excellent.Pietr the Latvian (1930) was the first book in the Maigret series.
A somewhat convoluted plot was, at times, a little hard to follow however the whole thing was helpfully deconstructed at the end.
It's enjoyable and undemanding fare, not a patch on the two Roman Durs, but that won't stop me from reading more of them because Maigret is such a wonderful character: laconic, insightful, determined and steadfast.
میشه گفت یه جورایی پدیدار شدن دوباره ی امید به امکان نیک بودن دولت و دستگاه های حکومتیه - برخلاف داستان های چندلر که پلیسا خودشونم اغلب سرشون تو آخور مافیا بود؛ اینجا واسه سیمنون مأمورا آدمای خوبین اما عموما رودست می خورناما آیا همه ی اینها ضعف آثار سیمنون ان؟ سوای دیالوگ نویسی ها به نظرم نه.
داستان های چندلر با اوضاع تاریخی آمریکای اون دوره و مهم تر از اون با شخصیت مارلو چفت بودن اما داستان های سیمنون توی فضای مدنی فرانسه اتفاق می افتن و راست کار امثال مگره اند.
Although I won't reveal the "existential peril" at play here, I will say that while many readers may see Pietr the Latvian, or for that matter any of the Maigret mysteries as yet just another police procedural, it goes well beyond that into examining just what it is underneath someone's exterior self that leads him or her to do what they do.
In short -- I get the feeling that as I travel through the Maigret mysteries, I'll find myself in the mind of a policeman who genuinely understands human nature, and that's a place I want to be.While anyone considering reading this book should be aware of the times in which this book was written because there is some definite racial/ethnic stereotyping being done here, I can definitely recommend the novel to crime readers of all sorts.
Maigret per me ha le fattezze di Gino Cervi e i pochi gialli di Simenon che ho letto da ragazzina sono persi nella memoria o seppelliti dall’esuberanza del personaggio televisivo.
La prima cosa che mi ha colpito di questo romanzo è la modernità: leggendo le descrizioni di Parigi si fa fatica a collocarle nel ’29, epoca in cui è stato scritto.
Profondamente umano per contrasto è invece il cattivo di turno (non è uno spoiler, Simenon ce lo introduce nel primo capitolo), il Pietr del titolo, che ricorda una prima istanza di Kees Popinga, soprattutto nelle pagine finali, in cui si disvela la sua storia di sconfitte.
A me piacciono i romanzi in cui si impara qualcosa - tant’è che spesso non faccio caso alla trama, guardo solo il contenuto, il messaggio, il cuore pulsante della storia.
Maigret, il commissario, lo insegue incurante dei delitti che si susseguono, incurante del sangue perso nel corso delle pagine (che poi, non sono convinta si possa arrivare in fondo al libro in quelle condizioni senza prendersi una bella setticemia), incurante della fatica dell’impresa.
E anche se la scrittura di Simenon è acerba, c’è qualcosa in questo libro che affascina, che ammalia, che ci spinge a volerne sapere di più.
ادبیات ژانر ... واقعا نمیدونم باید چی نوشت در مورد کتابهایی با این سبک و به این سیاق.  نمیپسندم. نمیپسندیدهم. نخواهم پسندید!ولی اگر قرار باشه جدای از سلیقه صحبت کنیم، در گفتمان خودش کتاب قدرتمندی بود. کاراکترها محکم. فضا ملموس. نثر روان. توصیفهای آلنپویی و تند و تیز. کتاب الکییی نبود. خوندنش بهتر از نخوندنش بود. این برای من توی ژانر پلیسی-معمایی کافیه، شاید.
ادبیات ژانر ... واقعا نمی‌دونم باید چی نوشت در مورد کتاب‌هایی با این سبک و به این سیاق.  نمی‌پسندم. نمی‌پسندیده‌م. نخواهم پسندید!ولی اگر قرار باشه جدای از سلیقه صحبت کنیم، در گفتمان خودش کتاب قدرتمندی بود. کاراکترها محکم. فضا ملموس. نثر روان. توصیف‌های آلن‌پویی و تند و تیز. کتاب الکی‌یی نبود. خوندنش بهتر از نخوندنش بود. این برای من توی ژانر پلیسی-معمایی کافیه، شاید.
This is the first of Simenon’s Inspector Maigret novels and published in 1930 is a darker read than most mysteries from that Golden Age of the 1930’s, from luxurious hotels and theatres to seedy boarding houses and there is true despair in some of the characters involved.
Maigret’s character will develop through the novels also.
Here he is a relatively young man, doing a lot of the legwork, and even stakeouts.
But for now,  Inevitably Maigret was a hostile presence in the Majestic.
Not that he looked like a cartoon policeman.
He was a big, bony man.
La foto in copertina di Brassaï, soprannominato da Henry Miller “l’occhio di Parigi”, ci aiuta a calarci nelle atmosfere e nei luoghi che verranno puntigliosamente descritti da Simenon.In particolare si tratta del ben noto “Le Monocle” a Montmartre, il primo e certamente più famoso nightclub per lesbiche.Ciò che mi ha colpito in questa prima “avventura” di Maigret, oltre alla trama intricata che si risolve correttamente in ogni dettaglio dal punto di vista logico, è soprattutto la capacità di evocare ambientazioni e atmosfere con grande maestria.
Every week I would pick up 3 new Simenon to read at the library and head home to travel to Paris and the dark, damp allies and hotels there...
Which got me to thinking of books I had enjoyed long ago and Simenon immediately came to mind.
Pietr the Latvian has no place in my memory, yet the tone, the atmosphere, the sense of Paris and the appreciation for the tight, conserved prose of Simenon is the same as I remember.
With 70 Maigret books to get through there should be enough for me to appreciate for a long, long time.
*****.This was without a doubt the worst book ever written by Simenon: the plot is lame and discontinuour and the characters are unbelievable.
Now it becomes a must-read for Simenon fans to see how his famous character started out and slowly evolved into the man we are most familiar with.
In addition to describing Maigret’s psychological character, Simenon gives us a vivid description of his physiognomy.
In all, although you will immediately pick up on the undeveloped nature of this main character, you will recognize that he will soon be a super hero in many subsequent books.
After an initial death, nothing happens except that detective Maigret follows people around for 50 pages, more than 1/3 of the book's length.
Little things are not quite believable, things so small that they might soon be forgotten but they add up, one after another, and bother me.
The translation also bothers me.
There are times that it is clear to even an English-only reader that the wrong word was chosen, such as a “but” for a “though.” Because of my 25 year old memories of enjoying Simenon’s books I’ll try another, but this early number from the Maigret series disappoints.
خب رمان پلیسی رو مگه میشه دوست نداشت؟ اصلا نوشته و چاپ میشه برای اینکه سرگرم کنه، که آدم از اول با دهان باز بخونه بره تا ته یه نفس.این رمان هم خب همینطور.
خیلی رمان کارآگاهی و پلیسی نخوندم، ولی خب مثلن در مقایسه با یکی دوتایی که از چندلر خوندم، فکر میکنم که سیمنون بهتره.به این دلیل که از کلیشه بیشتر به دوره.
دوم اینکه خواننده راه داده میشه در فعل و انفعالات ذهن کارآگاه مِگره و اصولا اونو یه آدم با خصائل انسانی می یابیم، نه یه قویِ خفنِ باهوش.
آخر سر هم از خود سیمنون میگم که "انسان بودن کار سختی است"
The international crook, Pietr Lett, whom Maigret has been waiting for, is found dead in the bathroom.
How did this happen?But then Maigret gets word that Lett is in Paris and going to meet with an international businessman from America at the Hotel Majestic.
So then who is this dead man who looks exactly like Lett?The book has a much more existential feel than other mysteries, even other Maigret mysteries.
We see him struggle with anger, sorrow, a feeling of impotency and despair.Maigret is no Superman.
The plot involves trying to catch the title character, who is probably a murderer and is also up to other kinds of nefarious business.
Maigret surveils him at the hotel and follows him to villages outside Paris, trying to figure out how he manages to escape detection and capture.
What I liked best was the evocation of Paris in the early 1930s.
The plot was very melodramatic, although the last scene between Pietr and Maigret was riveting; too much exposition but nevertheless tense.
I wouldn't start here if you haven't read any other books in the series, but it's good to know how Maigret was introduced to the world.
What a ghastly book, this first Maigret. I have really enjoyed several books from this series and thought I ought to read the first go round. Cannot recommend this book.
Although I had read this account I have decided to return to this series and read all the books in the chronology of their accepted writing/publication.This was never my favourite story but re-evaluating it now as the very beginning; the early reveal of who Maigret is and his methods of working it is quite fascinating.
Consequently, it will be good as the series expands in order just how faithful Simenon sticks with this picture of the detective.This is a clever story with Maigret on the trail of a murderer and an international crime syndicate.
