https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30724132-geekerella
THIS WAS SUPER ADORABLEI wasn't sure about it for some reason but I was pleasantly surprised! I didn't know before going into it but it's a very by the book Cinderella retelling and it worked so well in a modern setting. Just a quick, easy, feel good read.*video review to come*
5/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ “Never give up on your dreams, and never let anyone tell you that what you love is inconsequential or useless or a waste of time. Because if you love it? If that OTP or children's card game or abridged series or YA book or animated series makes you happy?That is never a waste of time. Because in the end we're all just a bunch of weirdos standing in front of other weirdos, asking for their username.” ― Ashley Poston, Geekerella GUYS THIS BOOK THIS BOOK! I'M CRYING RIGHT NOW OF
NO ONE WHO ISN'T A GEEK CAN APPRECIATE THIS BOOK THE RIGHT WAY I'M TELLING YOU.
No offense to non-geek people but this is a little something for us forever-and-ever geeks.This book is a Cinderella retelling (but could stand out as its own book without the Cinderella influence) about a girl named Ella and her passion for a tv show called "Starfield" (which mostly reminds me of Star Trek and I love that) that she shared with her late father.
I live for this book.I'm so happy I got to read this.
I would recommend this book a 148394820% to geeks like me, to fandom people like me, to people who know.
And I think that's something really special about this book: it's just a love letter to fans and geeks of all types.
(Although it does note the "monster fans" as Darien calls them, who like will kiss-attack an actor on stage which is 5000% inappropriate for sure and pls stop to those sorts of fans.)I reeeeally loved the Cinderella twist too!
And like he's doing this reboot for a SUPER famous cult-followed show and he loves it, but everyone assumes he's a vapid jerk in for the money.
And I loved how it underlined that super important message of: pls stop JUDGING PEOPLE YOU DON'T KNOW.

“We’re all geeks here” A love story most unlikely, a friendship most unexpected and a story inevitably beautiful. The horrors of being tied to a stepmom who hates you. The shackles that come along with fame. The tug of the familiar, the nervousness of taking risks. I can't help but fall in love with dreams.In this book we follow two characters, Danielle Wittimer who is the biggest fan of the Starfield series and grew up with it, and Darien a teen actor who just scored the lead role in the remak
She feels like her fandom is violated because Darien comes along with an entire fandom of teenage girls who are in love with him and his looks but not the Starfield fandom, they know nothing about it other than the fact that Darien Freeman is now cast in it.
I'm not sure why this incident stuck with me, but watching Darien after the show thinking back to how he hated that he couldn't answer a question he knew the answer to, really touched my heart..Elle’s father started ExcelsiCon a convention for people in fandoms.
How sweet was this =) ♥When I first started reading the book I wasn't so sure and then it started to get to me.
It was a sweet little book about a fandom, some sweet friends, and a retelling of sorts.
Elle and her father (when he was alive) were big fans of the show, Starfield.
But living with the horrible stepmother is not the greatest thing now that Elle's father is dead.
I fell in love with her once she and Elle started becoming friends.
We find out just how sweet it is when some unexpected things happen due to this contest.
I've embraced and been comfortable with my nerdiness for a while now, but it wasn't always so easy, and this book really struck a chord with me and what I felt like when I was seventeen years old and still unsure of who I was.
This adorable story starts out like any modern day Cinderella retelling would: with a girl grieving the loss of her father, while trying to put up with her evil stepmother, while dealing with her evil stepsisters.
I am so happy a book like this is getting published, and I wish it all the success in the world.
Basically it took my favorite things from other Cinderella retellings and wrapped them into one, PLUS EVEN MORE.I love that it's told from dual perspective and tackles (even in passing) issues like "fake geek girls" and people not understanding how much you love something that's nerdy and your favorite thing being rebooted or turned into a movie.
I love things so deeply and people don't understand and this book took that and was like that's your strength and I JUST I'm getting emotional again probably because I need to sleep.This book was everything to me that's it ok goodnight.Look to the stars.
Buddy read  with Skam trashYou would THINK that a book with an adorably epic cover, relatable geek plot, and is a retelling of a v famous story would STEAL my heart and win me over instantly. . .. . . but you didn’t consider this book.  Things this Book Got Right: - Girl friendship- The beauty of geeking over something and blogging about it - The calamity that is chores - Diets - Siblings who touch your stuff- Geek cons   Things this book got WRONG - Darien’s insured abs- Yes, you read that co
Buddy read  with Skam trashYou would THINK that a book with an adorably epic cover, relatable geek plot, and is a retelling of a v famous story would STEAL my heart and win me over instantly.
Things this Book Got Right:
Things this book got WRONG
-	Darien’s insured abs-	Yes, you read that correctly -	INSURED-	ABS-	Ew-	Barf-	Texting strangers-	Instalove that would make Cinderella and Prince Charming cringe -	The totally down to earth, hot actor guy-	The mary sue who would DEFINITELY stand up to the hot, down to earth, actor guy-	Darien’s insured abs-	Who the frick insures a part of their body-	And they’re abs ????-	Like what happens when you eat a sandwich and those abs go bye bye ???-	Is your stomach insured too??
“Look to the stars.
Aim. Ignite.”2 stars!!
A love letter to fandom! Super cute, super corny, but all around a story for young readers to love.Some of the dialogue was super cringe, and I'm not always a fan of "movie star" characters. But it's fiction so you just have to go with it. I'm here for the 15 year old fangirl who would have died to read this book!
This book had everything I absolutely would have wanted from a contemporary novel.
I loved the way the author intricately wove the Cinderella elements into this story- with some twists obviously 😉.
After her dad aka the person who introduced her to the Starfield fandom and the founder of Excelsicon dies, Elle is victimized for loving Starfield and is surrounded by fake people who pretend to like it and know everything about it just because of Darien Freeman.
This fact is taken personally by the entire fandom because for them, Starfield is their heart and soul.
A Cinderella story with a twist.
GEEKERELLA is a charming book very reminiscent of CINDER & ELLA.
The similarities are evident, so if you’ve read that book, this one may not impress you, but still, it is a pleasant read.It’s simply not my kind of read.
Well I did enjoy it, because it’s close to impossible for me to dislike a fairytale retelling, though it’s definitely not the type of book I will want to reread in the future.
Because I just can’t believe in falling in love through the phone.
Basically, I’d recommend it if you’ve thoroughly enjoyed CINDER & ELLA, or if you want to read a very contemporary retelling of CINDERELLA.
3.5 stars.AWWW this was cute (it was SO CHEESY, tho). And I didn't believe the "falling in love" part, but I'll explain that in my wrap up :).
I had high expectations for this and even though it hasn't been met, I still thoroughly enjoyed it :')
A fun Cinderella retelling. It’s geeky and current. I liked the twists and how the familiar elements were wittingly spun into a contemporary Cinderella story. The sci-fi bits and the cos-play were a lot of fun although at some point, the plot kind of dragged a bit for me but it was still a generally enjoyable read.
I  LOVED  this book soooooooooooo much!!!😍 I mean, I totally identified with Elle and her devotion to Starfield, the short-lived TV series that spawned a generation of superfans (which is exactly what happened with Star Trek, my first—and still—love). I jumped at the opportunity to visit a Star Trek Enterprise replica set and totally geeked out with other fans. (above) I even attended the San Diego ComicCon a couple of years ago and snapped a quick pic with a Captain Kirk wannabe. I, however, re
this book soooooooooooo much!!!😍 I mean, I totally identified with Elle and her devotion to Starfield, the short-lived TV series that spawned a generation of superfans (which is exactly what happened with Star Trek, my first—and still—love).
Elle's dad died, though, when she was only eight years old and she's been living with her stepmother and two stepsisters who defintely don't understand her continued obsession with Starfield.When she receives a phone call from an unknown number asking about ExcelsiCon (which had become huge), she doesn't think much of it.
You’ve got my parents’ hometown (Charleston) combined with a fairy tale retelling (one of my fave subgenres) infused with a fandom-centric plot.
Based on the traditional Cinderella story, Geekerella has all the trappings of the oft-repeated fairy tale but twisted to fit a contemporary setting.
After reading Elle’s harsh criticism Darien, secretly a genuine Starfield fan, contacts ExcelsiCon organizers to cancel his appearance.
Chapters alternate between Elle and Darien, providing our “Prince Charming” the depth missing from the original fairy tale.
The early text-based relationship between Elle and Darien prevents the story from falling into fairy tale insta-love territory.
5 Geeky Starfield Stars 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟This book was just SO adorable!I am not a super fan of anything or part of any type of fandom....
but that did not matter at all this book was a lot of fun....
a very well done retelling of Cinderella with a modern twist...right down to the pumpkin food truck....Elle was such a fabulously likable character....
a super hot movie star with abs of steel and a heart of gold....
although my favorite character has to be Sage she was the most unlikely perfect ferry godmother....
I would strongly recommend this book to everybody who believes in happily ever after....
4.50/5 stars!What an adorable book this was!!! Loved the nod to Cinderella & how the author Incorporated fangirls and fandoms in it! Loved it!
Geekerella was adorable! I'm always okay with cosplaying sci-fi nerds
My feelings while reading this book can best be explained by what this guy just went through:OUCH!!!!Oh gosh this was painful!
The main characters in the book all had a sort of pantomime-esque vibe going on that also really didn't work for me.
It followed the fairytale to a fault and, therefore, instead of breathing new life into the Cinderella storyline, it just felt boringly predictable.
This one was much too close and then even the slight differences felt jaded...
This novel almost felt like fan-fic version of that film to me.
Time to just forget this and move on to my next read.
*4 FANGIRLING STARS* "Look to the stars. Aim. Ignite." Oh my fangirl heart, this was so adorable!After Ready Player One, I've finally found another book that made my nerdy self rejoice!This actually reminded me of Cinder & Ella  from Kelly Oram, another book that I really liked last year, even though this one was way more geeky and because of that I actually enjoyed this one a lot more.Because this is a Cinderella retelling, we all knew beforehand how it was going to end, but nonetheless I w
*4 FANGIRLING STARS*
  "Look to the stars. Aim. Ignite."
Oh my fangirl heart, this was so adorable!After Ready Player One, I've finally found another book that made my nerdy self rejoice!This actually reminded me of Cinder & Ella  from Kelly Oram, another book that I really liked last year, even though this one was way more geeky and because of that I actually enjoyed this one a lot more.Because this is a Cinderella retelling, we all knew beforehand how it was going to end, but nonetheless I wasn't bored for even a second!
I expected this book to be relatable, but not on such a deep level. I actually cried in one scene which yes, I know I cry a lot in books, but hardly EVER in contemporaries. Plus, the entire thing is a shoutout to nerd culture and fandoms. If you need something that will make you smile, this ones for you.
A pesar de lo terrible de su vida, Elle es absolutamente feliz refugiándose en el mundo de Starfield, una serie a la cual su padre, el fundador de ExcelsiCon, la introdujo y, por ello, siente que es su legado.
Pero Elle no es sólo una geek más, sino que adora escribir fanfics, se sabe absolutamente todos los diálogos de la serie y, además, es una blogger reconocida en el universo de Starfield.
Mis partes favoritas del libro, así como me sucedió con Simon Vs The Homo Sapiens Agenda fueron los mensajes de texto que se enviaban Elle y Darien sin saber quiénes eran y sintiéndose Carmindor y Amara.
More like bullet point thoughts;- basically A Cinderella Story - the one with Hillary Duff - that's the name right????
- G A S P - not - it wasn't shocking - super cute tho - like super duper cute - geeky characters are my fave - but literally identical to the movie - there was some good diversity though - lesbian characters and POC - the movie thing really sounded like star wars - actually i haven't seen star wars - i loved the main guy- i've forgotten his name pls i read this a couple days ago don't shoot me - just a super cheesy story - very enjoyable - actually i hated it in the beginning - because it had a sausage dog and they're E V I L So, summary, super duper cute.
This was the best contemporary, cutest romance, and most adorable thing I read in 2017.
It was absolutely perfect!
The geekiness and cuteness and just everything!
IT WAS INCREDIBLE!The fangirling was so relatable.
Elle was so relatable.
It was brilliant!And the fandom references!
They were everywhere and they were perfect!
Doctor Who and Star Wars were my faves, but all of them were brilliant.
Maybe I'll reread this later after joining more fandoms and pick up on even more of them.
I honestly am so keen to reread!Darien was perfect.
This book was adorable, and that's basically all I have to say.
annoying?💊 Much of it was expected and that is logical since it is a re-telling!💊 I teared up toward the final parts of the book which always make me give a higher rating (See?
you're contradicting yourself even if it is a joke!💊 I really wanted to make her step-sister behave, she was really fleshed out and as annoying as needed.Anyway, I like to read those fluffy, fast books for a change and I think this delivered what I was looking for so I am being nice and rounding up to 4 stars.New fact about me: I once wrote a Cinderella re-telling before becoming an avid reader!

GEEKERELLA was a combination of all my favorite things: anonymous messages, fairy-tale retellings, and fandoms. it was so fun to read and i loved everything. :''')
I have always found books about cons and fandom intriguing.
So of course I was going to read this asap.
I love that she's struggling and smart and heartbroken and finds solace in fandom.
Darien is uncertain and struggling in his own way and the relationship between them is perfection.
Yes, it follows the Cinderella story, but this is entirely unique.
I thoroughly enjoyed how Ashley took those parts and made the story her own.
It is literally a love letter to fandom and my heart is so so so full.
**Huge thanks to Quirk Books and NetGalley for providing the arc free of charge**
