https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7095831-ship-breaker
Actually, this novel has by far the best conceived vision of our future in terms of realism.
However, the reread highlighted the fact that, compared to Bacigalupi's adult works (pretty much all of which I devoured after reading Ship Breaker), this book is a tad juvenile, middle grade almost, and it touches only the surface of the issues the author explores so well and so thoughtfully in his adult fiction.
Reading Ship Breaker for the second time, I just wanted more, because I knew how much more there was to this world Bacigalupi imagined.
And after reading the book?
In 326 pages, I felt like I knew exactly how this incredibly different future America worked and what it looked like, and it felt horrifyingly plausible.
Somehow this book has done the literary equivalent of getting your husband to bring the groceries in from the car for you, and I’m not entirely sure how.
Being a girl gets you no favors in this world, but that’s just the way it is.
When our dear Paolo places a smoking gun in chapter one, you can be darn sure that he’s going to use that gun in a surprising and satisfying place later.
it just felt like something i would put on the tv while i fold the laundry - the book equivalent of NCIS or without a trace.i do think boys would like this.
it's like - today, i was reading a book of essays and stories and poems about queens.
this woman has 6 published books of poetry.i don't know why i am talking about this here, except to note that her poems were so self-consciously diverse, it makes me want to hide.
It was fun, gripping, violent, tense, bleak and there was even a little sweetness at its core.Now that I’ve quit my job, I thought my nightmares about work would be over.
As soon as I started reading this story, I had a dream I was salvaging copper wire from grounded ships.
I liked the diversity of the cast, even though at times I felt color was added just to “cover all the bases.” One of my favorite aspects of this story is the setting.
I love how this story explores poverty and class differences, friendship, family and survival.
Maybe in a year, though, it won’t be like this.
In a dystopian future wracked with environmental disaster, a young salvager named Nailer's world is turned upside down when he stumbles upon the find of a lifetime, a magnificent clipper ship, and and its beautiful owner, a rich girl named Nita...Paolo Baciglupi crafted quite a tale in Ship Breaker.
You've got familial conflict, ecological disaster, young love, dystopia, what's not to like?Not a lot, frankly.
Nailer, Nita, and the others are three dimensional characters and Ship Breaker easily rises above just being another young adult novel.Did I mention I loved the cultures depicted within?
Yet. He has a great world and a great story -- the whole idea of ship breakers is AMAZING and his world building is solid -- but three things really bugged me the whole time I was reading:1.
His sentences didn't flow for me and he re-used the same words about a hundred times, until I was ready to personally mail him a dictionary.
Like the word 'feral'.
I felt like the main story was about this girl that he rescues.
The MC just felt -- to me -- like he was useless to the story.3.
And what will happen to the thousands of ships as the oil runs out and we return to sailing clippers, as the cities drown and the poor scramble for their small share of the diminishing resources?
Ship Breaker is a YA dystopian novel about a time in the not too distant future when the coasts are significantly diminished, when the oil is gone, when category 6 hurricanes—city killers—have finally destroyed key coastal cities like New Orleans.
One day a city killer wipes out everything on the beach, as it sometimes does, and Pima and Nailer travel down the beach to find a broken clipper with one swank survivor, Nita, and unbelievable riches on the boat.
Creepy and fascinating stuff, and if the whole book had carried on in this vein, it would have been an instant 5-star read.BUT...Nailer, our hero, finds a clipper ship, wrecked in a recent storm.
Boarding this veritable gold mine, he discovers "Princess" Nila, and THIS is where the story hits a wall, then limps off in the wrong direction.
Nila is not technically "a princess", but she is a rich girl.
Had Nailer not been smitten by her loveliness, perhaps he would have cut her fingers off, stolen her rings, and started his own, "kinder, gentler" ship breaking company.
I read this earlier this year and really, really dug it. Very tight and well-written. Gritty without being bleak, and sometimes dark without being depressing. Good stuff.
Four and a half stars of young adult goodness.I’m slightly ambivalent about Bacigalupi’s writing, but Ship Breaker has strengthened my affection.
His short stories are hard for me, as in hard-edged, hard-hitting, hard-healing.
I liked The Wind-Up Girl, mostly, though I was troubled by the lack of feminism and the bleakness of the dystopia.
Young adult might be the area where Bacigalupi and I best intersect; Ship Breaker is full of his evocative prose, great world-building, and is generally more hopeful, more identifiable, and more empowering.***********************************************8For full review, on a site that doesn't censor writers or demand that the review be 'on topic' according to nebulous terms of 'topical,' please go to:http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2013/1...ORhttp://carols.booklikes.com/post/7423...-
This is another great book with sharp, well written dialogue, a fast-paced story and an interesting main character.
The only reason is does not get the full 5 stars from me is that, as a YA novel, the detailed world-building that was so incredible in The Windup Girl is less prevalent in this story in order to keep the narrative moving and the page count manageable.
I only hope that there is a sequel that will allow the author to expand and fill in some of interesting "hints" that were made about the state of the world.
A good read but not, I eventually realised, for me.The story is about a boy called Nailer who works hard gathering copper wiring from old oil tankers in order to make quota and keep his pitiful job.
I thought some parts were better written and more interesting than others but, on the whole, the story failed to grab me and, thereby, failed to hold my interest.One of my favourite parts of this book were the constant moral battles the characters faced of self-preservation vs doing the right thing.
It's an ambitious, harrowing, difficult book, with an expertly drawn cast of characters, none of whom you'd want to call a hero or even a friend, but you ache for them because you know exactly why they do, and are forced to do, the sometimes terrible things they do to survive in a world we might be making right now.Ship Breaker, which happens to be by the same very talented guy, Paolo Bacigalupi, takes all those big ideas and crams them into a wholly pedestrian YA template, sketches the interesting details, and concentrates too hard on a simplistic, predictable plot.
The only element I was aware of was that it is told in a male’s POV, which for YA is a rare treat and one I like to experience every now and again.Ship Breaker portrays life in the distant future when petrol has pretty much run out and the oil ships off the coast are being scavenged by “ship breakers” for valuable scraps of copper, steel and other precious metals.
However, all that changes when Nailer is faced with a life changing decision as he stumbles upon his “lucky strike” in the form of a wealthy girl and her destroyed Clipper ship in desperate need of his help.This novel does a good job of setting the stage to portray the struggles of loyalty, integrity and ethics.
I really liked this and I hope to read more about Nailer, Pima and Nita and the world they live in.I live along the Gulf Coast and this world captured my imagination.
In the aftermath of the storm, Nailer and Pima decide to scavenge through the debris far up the beach, to an area that is an island during high-tide but accessible by a strip of sand during low-tide.
And Bright Sands is full of predators, including Richard Lopez, who will stop at nothing to get his "lucky strike", even if it means killing his only child to get it.Love this book, can't wait to read more!
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my LOCUS Y-A list.I think I’ll always have a soft-spot for imaginative young-adult speculative fiction and as the good people at Locus did such a grand job with picking their Sci-Fi winners, I’ll trust them to single out some special y-a books too.Was it good?
Like I said, it’s a hard life.After narrowly surviving a scavenging accident (Nailer gets dropped into an oil reserve, abandoned by an ambitious crew mate and impaled by rusty shrapnel), and surviving a hurricane which levels their shanty town (wiping out whole families) – Nailer’s luck seems to turn for the better.
It’s crashed, it’s fit for scavenging – this is it, their lucky strike!But there’s a survivor – sure they could kill her and take the loot – but Nailor’s conscience is getting pesky with the squeamishness.
In one of the few evaluative statements in the entire review, Michael states that, in comparison to Paolo Bacigalupi's previous novel, The Windup Girl, "This book gargles donkey cum." If anyone was inclined to take Michael's views on this book seriously before reading that statement, this crass overstatement most likely changed their minds.When attempting to actually review the book in his final paragraph, Michael proves himself inept: he relies on blanket statements, such as "The book was, overall, okay." Thank you for that amazing insight, Michael.
One thing I loved about this book was that the people came in all shades of colors, and none of the characterizations resorted to stereotypes.
Nailer and his best friend, Pima, are the first to discover the ship, and are determined to scavenge all they can from it.
Noticing the girl's gold jewelry, Nailer and Pima have no qualms about taking it from her, perhaps cutting off her fingers in the process in order to get her gold rings.
Nailer is more conflicted, convincing Pima that the girl is worth more alive than dead, for people are certain to come looking for her.
The characters felt more like roles than actual people.
This is a quick but fascinating read set in a compelling futuristic world where climate change has plunged most of the world's coastal cities into the ocean and the majority of humans live in extreme poverty (with a lucky few living the "swank" life).
The main character, Nailer, is a starving, scarred, and hardened young man eking out a living as a ship breaker.
When a massive hurricane (a now common event) sweeps through the small shanty town where he lives, a large wealthy clipper ship is wrecked.
This book is a gripping adventure that kept my heart beating and my eyes riveted the whole way through.
I'd compare Ship Breaker favorably to one of Heinlein's juveniles; its science and worldbuilding is (of course) more contemporary, but the story is very much a boy's adventure, with a pretty girl (who has plenty of will of her own) as a motivating factor.Highly recommended: if you liked The Windup Girl, you should like this somewhat lighter story told in a similar vein, and it's better than a lot of adult SF.
This book's initial setting is in a trashy town on America's Gulf Coast, a region I know practically nothing about.
It turns out I didn't need to know anything, as this story takes place in the future - with the Gulf Coast wrecked and parts set aside for ship-breaking, the profession of our protagonist, Nailer.
I wonder if Bacigalupi intends to write a sequel to Ship Breaker.I felt as if some of the action could have been replaced with deepening the meaning behind the book, but overall a good read.
Obviously the author is highly praised and heavily awarded, so my expectations were fairly high and I thought he delivered a quality product.The setting is quite bleak and the story itself is pretty simple.
There is lots of character driven conflict with alternating high and low points giving the reader an emotional ride.
Much of the content reminded me of the Chaos Walking Trilogy by Patrick Ness, which is a good thing IMO.I was annoyed by some of the weaker dialogue moments, some bits were very unnatural and others didn't seem realistic during the dramatic or action scenes.
The book was good and I'm interested in what comes next.
After all, when Nailer finds a gorgeous clipper ship run aground during a hurricane, he faces the same choice: should he rescue the rich "swank" girl trapped inside, or let her die so the ship's salvage can make him wealthy?YA novels have changed just a tad, haven't they?
Just to name a few: Nailer's relationship with his abusive and addicted father; the connections with and between his crew's members; and maybe most interestingly, the concept of "halfmen," genetically engineered to be loyal to their owners.While I enjoyed Ship Breaker, and would recommend it to mature YA readers, I can't help but wonder if this story wouldn't have worked better as a regular, non-YA novel.
To be captured would mean the end of the gameAbsolutely amazing and exactly what I wantedI didn't know I was in a mood for dystopian when I picked up this book.
The fascinating and compelling plot that made it a must to read the next page, the characters who were complex, diverse and lovable (well, most of them actually), the dystopian world that was so frightening that made my heart beat faster, the romance that was cute, blooming in a world full of bloodshed and unfairness and also the friendships and the meaning of family.It made me cry tears of sorrow and joy, made me grit my teeth in anger, made me shake my head in disgust or bite my lip in anticipation.
The story takes place in an informal community make a living scavenging off old ships stranded off the US Gulf Coast.
This community of ship breakers almost had a Mad Max feel to it.I loved the atmosphere created by this future dystopian world and the first 30% was a fantastic 4-star surprise.
The writing was vivid, the pace was break neck and the story showed a lot of potential.Nailer, our protagonist, works on a light crew, whose job it is to crawl through the ship ducts and hidey holes to strip copper wire and other small items.
This book wears a whirling cloak of action and brings to life a unique speculative setting, while underneath it offers readers an introduction/exposure to all the main existentialist concepts.
I am going to miss being able to turn to this story during my daily drives.
I'll miss how it conjures up ways to examine ideas of destiny, decision, fate, present and past, belonging and angst.
How many books of any kind offer so much to the reader?______________So, now you're wondering "Why not five stars"?Two root words:blossomexplodeAll the variations on the above root words: blossomed, blossoming, exploding, exploded.
I really liked the writing in this tremendously dark YA novel of a post-oil, climate-crashed world. The vision of the future is convincing and compelling, the protagonists and villains vivid, and the story had a lot of momentum. Very, very solid.addendum: ...and it's still sticking with me a couple months later, and I bought the hardcover.
I started reading, encountered all these marvelous characters and concepts, and I got my hopes up.
This book was so good at putting the reader in the mind and situation of its desperately poor main characters.
It’s like the book wanted so hard to make her perfect for the sake of justifying how people are literally dying left and right for her.
Because I guess rich people really are more important in the end.”Seriously, I bear Nita no ill will as a character, but I wanted her to die, just so that this book would at least do something new and harsh.
I almost couldn't read this book right now, because between the bees dying and the coral reefs and the election MADNESS happening right now .
but I did, and I'm glad I did.The narrowness of Nailer's world is what made this real.
Nailer can't read, because he doesn't need to, and who would teach him?
He only knows what he needs to know.
The wider world around him is meaningless, because it doesn't put food in his belly.
The world is bleak and believable.
I can see why this garnered awards and so much buzz, I'm just sorry I waited so long to read it!
Initially I’d been drawn to this book because it reminded me of a documentary I’d seen about families in India who lived and worked on the beach, eking out a living by breaking down oil tankers for parts (which is the exact scenario here) The extreme poverty, danger, expendability and daily fight for survival stuck with me and I suppose that’s why for several chapters here I assumed this took place in a third world country, it does but that country is now on the US Gulf coast.
