https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11230.The_Bell
But Murdoch makes the equivalence explicit in her description of the psychic state of her main character, a homosexual: “...in some curious way the emotion which fed both [his religious feeling and homosexual orientation] arose deeply from the same source.”English resourcefulness is to be found in this dance of sex and religion, which is carried out as much to the rhythm of an English country house as of a Benedictine convent.
Driven by the ‘event’ of the bell, the characters carom around the confines of Imber Court, impelling each other to acts of spiritual lust and material folly in a marvellously English way.
The first surprise in the book is wonderful if, like me, you don't see it coming.I didn't love THE BELL as much as THE SEA, THE SEA or A SEVERED HEAD, because it feels as if Murdoch is still shaking off some structural ghosts from more conventional fiction.
The three perspective characters - Dora, a flighty aspiring painter with a harsh husband; Michael, the leader of the community w/ a secret past; Toby, a teenager of boundless energy - carry this book, and Murdoch uses various bells, both metaphorical and actual, to great effect.
The main character is Dora, a ditz, but you gotta love her for her good heart.
It could not be that God intended such a spring of love to be quenched utterably.” The novel has a fairly frank discussion of male homosexuality given that it was published in 1958.The main action in the book revolves around a new bell that is to be installed at the abbey.
All that serves to move the book along but it’s really a story of good and evil, morality, and people struggling to do the good thing.
The greater part of the action in The Bell takes place within a religious lay community living in a large house called "Imber Court", in a rural woodland area of Gloucestershire, in England.
To illustrate his sermon, James speaks of Catherine, who will soon become a nun in a closed order, joining the religious community of the Abbey at Imber Court.
(view spoiler)[Nick then makes it clear that he has been observing Toby's meetings with both Michael and Dora.
(view spoiler)[The two main characters Dora and Michael are the only two remaining at Imber, since the community has broken apart.
Work, as it now is can rarely offer satisfaction to the half-contemplative."In The Bell, we find such a group of individuals seeking a sort of spiritual retreat at Imber Court, a lay community attached to an enclosed order of nuns at Imber Abbey - or, as the Abbess puts it "a buffer state between the Abbey and the world, a reflection, a benevolent and useful parasite, an intermediary form of life." Murdoch does a superb job of developing her main characters of the novel.
The group of people staying at Imber include a young student, Toby Gash, James Tayper Pace, who had been a youth group leader in East London, Catherine Fawley, who is planning to become a nun and her twin brother, Nick, who has a drinking problem and a history with Michael, the rather bossy, Mrs Mark, and others.
Michael, troubled by the brooding presence of Nick, drinking in the lodge by the lake, is attracted to young Toby.
And finally, here is the young and innocent Toby, attracted to the lay community by the promise of a spiritual life, enthusiastic like Dora by the fields, the forest, the lake, the mystery of the nuns hiding behind the tall wall of their monastery.We get to spend quality time inside each of these people's minds, unravelling their self-justifications, their self-deceptions and their occasional honest efforts to become better persons.
I laughed out loud as Dora and Toby, the two exponents of irrepressible joy in life, set out to rock the peace of the place with a little subversive action (view spoiler)[ by substituding the new bell for the Abbey with a famous old one they find at the bottom of the lake  (hide spoiler)] .
The content is not intentionally dense and the language not splendid, but she fascinates me with the eccentric and messy personalities that she portrays; gradually, I find myself full of solicitude for those fictional characters in her literary world.I find out that Ms. Murdoch, besides being a novelist, is also a philosopher, and I start to think of her literature as an imaginative humanization of abstract philosophy.
The setting of The Bell, Imber Court (an Anglican lay religious community), constitutes a metaphysical system and the characters are moral persons interpreting and interacting within this metaphysical system.
In this novel it’s 1950s England and Michael is homosexual.
And Dora, a young woman unhappily married to an older man, also starts to figure out that this kind of repression isn’t sustainable.Those who hope, by retiring from the world, to earn a holiday from human frailty, in themselves and in others, are usually disappointed.Love.
Where does that early love go?
If only it would last...The talk of lovers who have just declared their love is one of life's most sweet delights.
There’s an overwhelming sense of dread building and when it comes it’s hardly surprising; people weren’t meant to be shut-in.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Rebarbativeness: "The Bell" by Iris Murdoch(Original Review, 2002)“Toby had received, though not yet digested, one of the earliest lessons of adult life: that one is never secure. At any moment one can be removed from a state of guileless serenity and plunged into its opposite, without any intermediate condition, so high about us do the waters rise of our own and other people’s imperfection.”In "The Bell" by Iris MurdochI first encountered the word 'rebarbative' in The Bell.
Several characters come to a lay community attached to a Benedictine nunnery. It is a place of sanctuary, a bridge between the secular world outside and the closed, contemplative, spiritual convent. Most of the characters are looking for some kind of peace, although not all of them find it. This novel is widely regarded as Murdoch's masterpiece. I have not read all of her books, but this one is excellent.I read this again with a book group. We had an interesting discussion about the book, so instead of adding to my review, I will link to it:https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...
There were ideas for her to suggest and no one to live with them.A young woman in Michael's religious community received her sign from God to take her own vows and enter into confinement.
She held every piece in her hand and never lets go.When the secret behind the knowing burns through the material The Bell is hot and real, a secret to be spied upon, dirt under the rug and real living.
Did he tell her about what happened when Michael was his teacher, in a past life made up of different signs pointing in the wrong direction?
what tremendous formal control does it take to write such a seemingly simple story and pack it with so much stuff?the beginning is a bit Middlemarchian, in that a rather naive girl marries an older man who is passionate about his scholarship (we never learn whether his scholarship is any good) and also tremendously narcissistic, manipulative, and abusive.
the story takes place in a lay religious community attached to a nuns' monastery (anglican benedictine) where paul goes to do research on ancient manuscripts.
I really don't know why so many people like The Bell when Murdoch has written better books?
Sure the characters are ok, but Murdoch became better at creating fully fledged people AND mixed in philosophy at the same time.
The story is about a group of rather nasty people who go on a retreat at an abbey but are entangled in each other's lives with the bell being the focal part of their lives and possibly their redemption from being materialistic and having impure thoughts.
It's clunky in places but I guess it is the signpost to what Murdoch would do over the next 3 decades.
The book is both humorous and moving.Published in 1958, 'The Bell' was Iris Murdoch's fourth novel.A young, errant wife re-joins Paul, her older, humourless and bullying husband, at Imber Court in Gloucestershire, a semi-religious lay community run by an ill-assorted group of enthusiasts, set up on the periphery of a closed order of nuns.
It’s also a cautionary tale that anyone attracted to escaping the pressures of modern life by escaping to a monastery, or a closed order of nuns, should probably read.
Indeed a person's sexuality seems of no consequence to Iris Murdoch, it's more about the effects of loving someone you're not necessarily allowed to possess.
Iris Murdoch's fourth novel shows a strengthening of fictional power while continuing her philosophical inspection of human character.
She decided six months later to return to him for the same reason." Dora is one of the two main characters and represents the amoral personality.
The other is Michael Mead, a failed religious man who struggles with his homosexuality like a character from Graham Greene.
The other characters are there to create the interactions, tensions and plot, but none are flat or feel secondary.
I was not wild about the long descriptive passages but did not mind the somewhat lengthy expositions on Michael's and Dora's inner lives.
This was the first Iris Murdoch novel I read, many years ago now, and straight away I was hooked.
Typically, her stories start out like realistic novels of English life, only to become increasingly bizarre, with outrageous entanglements of relationship and motive, recognitions, reversals, melodramatic confrontations, all of it mingled with ancient mythological patterns, evocative symbolism, and philosophical speculation on the meaning of good and evil (Murdoch was a distinguished academic philosopher, publishing philosophy as well as fiction).
Many consider The Bell, which is about a lay religious community, a convent, and a mysterious bell lying in the bottom of a lake, to be her best.
I added this book to my to-read shelf because of this article:https://www.theguardian.com/books/boo...
Murdoch naturally, doesn't say he's boring; her character development has far too much finesse.The other question she tackles in relation to sex and religion is the one of Innocence and we have two characters who specifically embody this type of youthful innocence - Dora who is married to the awful Paul Greenfield, and Toby - filling in his summer, at Imber Court, before going up to Oxford, in the autumn.
She is esteemed and honoured by all the characters at Imber Court as the perfect example of goodness and innocence, meanwhile - her decision to enter the convent is her way of dealing with unrequited love.
Another amazing book from Iris Murdoch. She managed once more to bring up some questions about types of behaviour in this life, in a very londonese-like spirit, gently uncovering mysteries of human nature.
“Our actions are like ships which we may watch set out to sea, and not know when or with what cargo they will return to port.” In many ways, The Bell is a book about actions and unintended consequences.Imber Court is described as ‘a buffer state between the Abbey and the world’ and it does seem that many of its occupants are in transition.
‘That was marriage, thought Dora, to be enclosed in the aims of another.’  Having broken free once, she now feels compelled to return to Paul and Imber Court is the scene of their reunion.
It was just that Dora had then estimated, with a devastating exactness which was usually alien to her, how much of sheer contempt there was in Paul's love; and always would be, she reflected, since she had few illusions about her ability to change herself.
This is a book concerned with love, but not in some beautiful, meaningful sense, but in the ways it makes people petty, jealous and spiteful.
Paul does love Dora.
Dora claims her freedom in other men; she thinks the solution for feeling like her marriage is a form of bondage is to shackle herself to Noel.
whenever i pick up an iris murdoch novel, it seems initially that i am embarking on a tale with conventional romance trappings, and then, very quickly, there is a moment of unease, and i begin to understand that she has lured me away from the safe harbour where her story begins, and that the universe her characters inhabit might be familiar to me but that i am not conversant with its rules.
nobody ever does what i'd expect them to, and the novel makes me one think very hard about the ideas and motivations that preoccupy the book: thoughts about love, sexuality, spirituality, and constancy fan out, and by the end dora has come back to lead us away and out of the tumult.
Religious community life: tension, spirituality, suppressed sexuality, practicality. Less overtly philosophical than Under the Net.The Guardian selected it as a book to give you hope:https://www.theguardian.com/books/boo...
لا اتذكر في أي فلم كان ذلك المشهد حينما تتحدث احدى الشخصيات عن اعجابها بالرواية التي تقرأها حاليا كونها تتحدث عن فتاة تنسى كل شيء لتلاحق فراشة في الحافلة او القطار لا اتذكر. يومها ظلت هذه الجملة ترن في أذني و تمنيت حقاً معرفة اسم هذه الرواية و لم أدري ان الصدف تخبئها لي بكرم باذخ ذلك اني و بعد اعجابي برواية الرأس المقطوع لايرس مردوك بحثت عن كتبها فلم اجد سوى هذه الرواية و اتضح ان ايريس العظبمة هي كاتبتها رواية عميقة و انسانية و صادقة و لا اعرف الكثير من المديح يمكن ان تكتبه لهذه الموهبة الروائية الفذة.
Innocence sullied and superficial, is part of the religious and moral aspects to the novel for there are several characters who are more than they appear, who are hiding something whether they wish to or not and this notion of secrets and suppressed and hidden identity has run through other Murdoch novels I have read recently.Dora and Toby find one another and embark upon a scheme involving the titular Bell which mirrors other 'Murdochian' plans with similar results.
Wow. This is a short novel about passion, devotion, betrayal, and the strictures of society and religion. There's a frenetic energy and Iris Murdoch does not allow for many lulls in the narrative--she turns from character to character to propel the plot to a thrilling trajectory. Like The Sea, The Sea, some of the characters are magnified in scope beyond what would be realistic. But that heightened focus does not detract. This would be a good bookclub pick. I'm having a splendid start to the reading life of 2018.
The other main character, Dora, can be just as trying, though I felt more sympathy for her.
"It was an aspect of Michael's belief in God and one which, although he knew it to be dangerous, he could never altogether reject, that he expected the emergence in his life of patterns and signs.""The talk of lovers who have just declared their love is one of life's most sweet delights.
Disaster is not quickly apprehended."It occurs to me as I add these quotes that the other things I love about Iris Murdoch have to do with her wisdom and acute precision when it come to human nature, and her ability to explore philosophically the large questions of existence.
(Last of my "catch-up" reviews for stuff I read between June and October) It is basically a Murdoch novel, a bunch of characters experience spiritual dramas, there is light and easily penetrable symbolism, lots of great sentences and love stories. I generally love everything she wrote and this did not disappoint, though it is by no means her best work - contrary to what I was told. It is a bit like The Nice and the Good though a bit more ascetic. Which can be a good thing for some but not for me. Still, I had a great time.
Another magnificent book written by one of my favourites authors.4* Living on Paper: Letters from Iris Murdoch, 1934-19955* Iris: A Memoir of Iris Murdoch5* Iris Murdoch: Dream Girl4* A Severed Head4* The Sea, the Sea4* The Black Prince4* The BellTR Under the NetTR The Sacred and Profane Love MachineTR A Fairly Honourable DefeatTR The Nice and the GoodTR The Philosopher's PupilTR The SandcastleTR The Italian GirlTR The Good ApprenticeTR The Red and the Green
