https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/307644.Everywhere_That_Mary_Went
Entertaining, but....Some action inserted into this story didn't have much to do with the story line and almost skipped some pages. Also there was many religious parts. Mary DiNunzio trying to make partner, surrounded with loving family, friend and secretary. She misses her twin sister, who decided to become nun. Conversations between the two sisters about their life choices was the best part of this book. Somebody has been following her and sending notes, ending was shocking.
Mary was the first character of hers that I met, and remains my favorite -- mostly because I can relate so well to her.
I also found out some significant things about her and her past, and like all good character revelations, it made me love her character more.I raced through the book to find out the answers (that's the curse of a Lisa Scottoline book -- you wanna read slow, to enjoy it and take it all in; but ya wanna read fast so that you can find out what's going _on_), but it was a _fun_ ride -- if not too fun.
3.5 Stars.
It started out a little slow for me and got a little slow in the middle so that's why I couldn't quite give it 4 stars.
I did enjoy it, though.
Mary frustrated me some, but I liked her.
I think after hearing Lisa Scottoline speak in person, I was better able to appreciate Mary.
I thought the conclusion of the mystery was pretty good.
I hadn't suspected it at all, but it made sense.
I'm seriously considering spending money and buying the next book in the series because there's a really long wait for it at the library.
So I read the book and this is what I would like to share with you, hopefully without giving away any spoilers.I suppose what caught my attention right off was that the main character was in a major law firm.
I felt like Chief Ramsey overhearing the McDonalds fry guy talking about cooking in hot water instead of hot grease!Now if the author was writing about what she knows, and I read about all the human garbage that pass for top lawyers and judges in this fictional account, I wonder if it is time for us to bring out the guillotine.
*SPOILER ALERT*Here is a list of things that didn't make sense in the book:-Mary's husband's death: there's absolutely NO INDICATION ANYWHERE AT ALL that his death might be suspicious: until the very end.
Let me make weird, random ties between his death and COMPLETELY UNRELATED THINGS THAT ARE HAPPENING RIGHT NOW!" (in a way that only makes sense if you squint one eye and close the other....)-Mary's twin sister: there was potential for a good story here.
This book had TONS of great storylines within the story itself, but the author chose not to dive into any of them.
After 3 different novels, I haven't rated her above 2 stars and hated her novels.
Everywhere That Mary Went is the first novel in a successful series.
It focused on Mary, a lawyer, who is grieving after her husband's death.
She is trying to focus on becoming a partner at her current law firm, however she keeps receiving stalker-ish notes and phone calls.
The stalker comes out of nowhere at the end and the journey to get there was super boring.
I didn't like Mary and couldn't connect with her.
The novel gets a extra star because I was surprised with who the stalker was.
The first scene in the book starts us off with a nervous Mary trying to make partner in a different firm from the last book.
Mary begins a relationship with one of her competitors for partner, an old law school classmate Ned, who may well be the guy stalking her and who started out by trying to have sex with her on her desk when she was upset and needed comfort.
This was an enjoyable debut in the Rosato and Asociates series, however initially it didn't feel like the first book in a series and I do wonder if originally it was written as a standalone.
This was a good book and I liked the main character Mary Di Nunzio, and will be very interested to read more about her.
A few good twists and shocks were provided in this book.
It was also good to r ad a book where women formed the central characters (and strong characters at that) and that didn't look to a man to solve their problems.I do look forward to reading on in this series.
This book was entertaining, but there were parts that really bothered me.
It seemed to be a little all over the place, there was a clear stalker plot, but the rest of the story didn't seem to flow too well.
The part that really bothered me about this book was the love story that didn't seem to fit into this book at all.
It was definitely insta love which is already annoying, but it served no purpose in the plot whatsoever which made reading about it annoying.
It will leave you guessing throughout the book as to who is going everywhere that Mary went.
I just realized that I have not been reading this great series in order, and I am rather fanatical about doing that. This first novel introduces Mary DiNunzio and friends in a fast-paced thriller. A great ride.
In fact, part of the plotline is that Mary feels that she has lost her twin sister because she has become a cloistered nun, which for those of you who aren't Catholic or who just don't know, is a little different than regular nuns.
These are the reasons that I have tagged the book the way that I did.For those of you who like mysteries and series books or are a fan of Scottoline and haven't read Rosato and Associates should definitely take a look at this book!
Whenever a book keeps me reading it straight through, I know there must be something special about it that deserves 5 stars!
I loved this story!! I recently read Accused by Lisa Scottoline--the 12th book in the "Rosato & Associates" series, and I loved it. I decided to go back and re-read some of Scottoline's early books in this series. Everywhere That Mary Went is the first book in this series, and a truly exciting story. I couldn't put it down. Now, on to book two, Legal Tender.
I love Lisa Scottoline. Her books are fun and suspenseful without being cynical and hardnosed. The characters and their flaws are always real. This is the first in a series and I definitely will be reading more!
Right before the big reveal Mary has 50 suspects including the guy she is sleeping with, every partner she talks to, the father of the guy she is sleeping with, her best friend, and every person or car that gives her a weird feeling.There is literally no reason or information given about this mystery.
Randomly her best friend says, maybe someone is in love with you, but she has no proof to back up that claim and Mary can’t think of a single person who is interested in her besides the guy she is sleeping with.
She knows that there are others trying for the same job and one of them is sending her notes and stalking her, hoping that she will mess up before being chosen.
Hasn't Mary had enough death in her life, after loosing her husband in a bicycle accident?
This was a good introduction to Mary and Julie and the life of an up and coming lawyer.
The author does a good job of building suspense and also showing that all is not brightness and light in this life Mary has chosen.
I really went into this book with high hopes; I'd long been bored with the formulaic legal template utilized by greats like Grisham and Lescroart and thought the perspective of a ball-busting female corporate attorney would be a refreshing twist on the predictable.
The dialogue is amongst some of the best I've ever had the pleasure of reading, sprinkled with authenticity, wit, and earnestness that makes character interactions and interior monologues wildly entertaining.Unfortunately, Scottoline's adept handling of character is wasted by an absolutely loathsome plot.
Mary Nunzio, a lawyer who has been with her employers, a Philadelphia law firm, for 8 years and is well in line to make partner.
Add to these problems a major attack of conscience about her work, which is mainly to defend large corporations against often justified compensation claims, together with some jealousy from work colleagues about her impending elevation to partner, and you get a woman with a lot on her plate.She confides in a colleague Judy and her gay secretary Brent; events then take a darker turn when Brent is killed buy a hit and run driver, Mary being the real target.
Everywhere That Mary Went is book one in the Rasato and associates series by Lisa Scottoline.
This book follows a lawyer with the titular name of Mary as unforeseen events happen to and around her.
It is this cloud that surrounds the story because the reader finds things out almost about the same time our muse does.
Scottoline is very adept at building suspense and has a keen knack to make the reader want to turn the page.
There was no stated mystery in the book the mystery is figuring out what's happening!
This novel has the rare pacing that the story flows off the page.
I read a newer Scottoline novel and since I am unemployed-I decided to read the Mary DiNunzio series. This is a fun book, which gives a brief history of Mary, her dead husband, and her law background. Mary has a stalker and the list of potential stalkers is large. I liked the ending, and the possibility of another book. Many unanswered questions---why is Mary's twin sister a nun? Why did Mary not take her husband's last name? Will Mary ever reveal her abortion to anyone? The characters and setting could be better developed.
Enjoyable This author definitely only got better with experience and age. I love all her novels and am so excited to discover her early work. These characters are some that you fall in love with. Will keep reading.
I don't know why I've never read this before. I completely enjoyed it, got thrown by the red herrings. It was an unrealistic portrayal of life in a law firm, but that didn't make any difference in my level of enjoyment. Some of the Catholic stuff had me scratching my head, however.
Excellent read. Kept me interested and guessing all the way through. I thought I had figured it out, but I was wrong!!
Great start for these series of books, and I found myself looking forward to each upcoming chapter.
The main character, Mary, was very likable, and someone you would definitely find yourself rooting for.Throughout the novel, we see someone is definitely stalking her, and early on, I had a feeling I knew who, and yes I was correct, and YES I was STILL interested in reading this book.
There were several small details I loved, like all of the references to my home of Philadelphia but I also liked that she had a pet cat!Overall great read, and I cant wait to read my next Lisa Scottoline book.
2.5 starts. I've read a later book by Scottoline, and really enjoyed it. I decided to go back and read the remainder of her books in order.This was the first book she wrote, and although you can see the promise, it's not strong. The plot zigs and zags, characters aren't very well developed, and I got frustrated with how quickly the main character Mary went from 0 to 1,000 on the emotional scale (particularly with a new crush/love in her office).I'll keep reading the Scottoline books, as I'm interested in watching her writing style grow and change (and improve!).
I don’t know why I haven’t read any of Lisa Scottoline’s books until now. Everywhere That Mary Went was fascinating! A recent widow is being stalked and the stalker goes so far as to murder her gay male secretary. Mary and her best friend are also dealing with trying to make partner in their prestigious law firm.
I love how Scottoline wrote this book. The dry humor of the lead character made it a fun read as well as a suspenseful story. I was fooled in the end and I’m looking forward to more of Rosario and Associates!
The mystery of the stalker is intriguing and has some surprising developments, Mary's family is realistic and has moments together that are relatable, and there is also a lot about various court cases and other legal proceedings that was pretty interesting and rounded out the story well.This was a first book in a series, and as such, it had a lot of exposition: introducing the characters, sketching out--or sometimes detailing--their personal histories and relationships with one another, showing the workings of a law office, and explaining intricacies of the judicial system.
There are a lot of things that bothered me in this book.
And after the second murder of her close friend, she goes to confront him, but ends up sleeping with him.
I was really expecting the plot to go one way ((view spoiler)[totally thought it was Judy the bff...the stalker is always the best friend with the secret gay crush in the movies.
But then Mary goes on this bizarre Catholic spiritual journey in the middle of the book, and I was like what the hell?
And I've got to say, some of the characters are truly lovable, especially Mary's best lawyer friend, Judy, and her AWESOME secretaries!
There was too much stalking, not just from the criminal, but it seemed every male in the book, including the gay ones, love Mary best over everyone else in their lives.
(Only the cat hates her.) The plot is about a man who loves her insanely, and he is scaring her with wild threats to her life which clearly demonstrate a crazy mind at work.
The plot matches Mary's queer emotional life, appearing uneven to me and it doesn't quite make sense.
For someone making Partner in a top legal firm, Mary appears too dumb and too high school, not like a smart professional.
After reading Gone Girl and enjoying it so much, I looked up a bunch of random mystery/thriller type books to try and recapture some of the excitement of a suspenseful plot line.
That specific moment when you clearly see in your mind's eye the author of the book you're reading sitting at her very expensive iSomethingSomething computer, with a Word Doc open in one window and thesaurus.com in another as she looks up every verb and adjective of her masterpiece and changes it to something "smarter." And that's when you know you cannot possibly take her piece of crap book seriously and it's only a matter of time before you throw it to the flames."Ha-ha-ha!" The bogus sound caroms harshly off the walls of the cavernous courtroom, ricocheting like subatomic particle long after everyone has fallen silent."Or..."'Miz DiNunzio?
