https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2815620-now-it-can-be-told
O God!' in remembrance of all that agony and that waste of splendid boys who loved life, and died.""When I think of France I am tempted to see no greater thing than such patriotism as that to justify the gospel of hate against such an enemy, to uphold vengeance as a sweet virtue.
Title refers to the fact that his writings here are published without the censorship that was in place during the war.An absolutely outstanding account of the realities of war in general, WWI trench warfare in particular, with appropriate commendation of the suffering, sacrifices, and heroism, without glorification of fighting.
Clearly an anti-war treatise, but without denegrating the service and sacrifice of those whose lives were changed forever by their experiences in France and Belgium.A bit repetitious at times, but this is reflective of the army experience in general, and probably necessary to drive home the idea of the utterly pointless loss of a generation of young people.The best WWI book I have read, and one of the best war/ history books I have ever read.
This book is a must-read for anyone interested in World War I. It paints a realistic and brutal picture of the daily reality for millions of people during the "war to end all wars." This is the stuff Gibbs wasn't allowed to publish during the war, and it's incredible. A reminder of the tangible and intangible costs of war.
Brilliant description of the horrors of warThis book describes WWI as seen by a journalist who was there throughout its extent. The description is simply brilliant. Without concentrating on the gory details, it captures the physical and mental horrors suffered by the soldiers in a manner that would be highly enjoyable if it were not so gruesome.
His vividly describes life in the lines and the reaction of British troops to the horrors of war.
Frequently he quotes the soldiers' letters or his conversations with them.He writes of all those courageous attacks that General Head Quarters (GHQ) planned, with the cavalry (yes, the cavalry) arrayed just behind the lines ready to exploit any break in enemy lines, and the cavalry still clogging the roads as troops returned from the unchanged front, and the wounded were being transported to field hospitals in the rear.
A waste of life, liberty, blood and treasure, as well as great beauty.Now It Can Be Told is certainly one of the best book I’ve read and I would give it five stars without hesitation.
In addition to his superlative description of the men’s lives at the Front (on both sides of no man’s land), showing their suffering, their courage, and even their sense of humor, Gibbs also gives us insight into life when the war was over and during the stalling of their demobilization for months before they at last went home.
This is however the truth of what it is exploring, after all, a person can "grasp" the essentials of the WWI quickly but it is the scale and the endlessness that takes a horrid physical and psychological individual experience and expands it to fill the geographical and chronological expanse of the war.It is a difficult read because of the repetition of scenery, of facts, of numbers and divisions and slaughter; the terror of bombardments, mining, trench raids and the initial errors of generals and officers that performed "experiments" upon the field of battle, costing them little personally but the lives of thousands of individuals.It is an account that is sensitive to questions of morale and perception of the war as Gibbs spent much of the war near the front lines, in field hospitals, and in towns situated adjacent to and later on the German side of the action.
Really brought home the horror of WW1, and the reality to those unlucky enough to be thrust onto the front line. A really well written book, that really doesn't show its age at all. Highly recommended. I read most of this on a camp site in the Somme, it made it all very real.
Not exactly a great place to start reading about World War One (the book was written in 1919, when readers would have lived through and have intimate knowledge or the events described) but if you know more-or-less how the war went for the British on the western fron this is a really excellent book.Gibbs was one of five (in 1914) journalists given permission to report directly from the front.
It's not a book for the squeamish but it gets across amazingly well that the first world war was human misery almost beyond description.
If you're interested in World War I, this book is a must read.
Provides a vivid 1st Person account of World War I from the British perspective.
Even though the author was British, he interviewed many other combatants from many other countries and provided their perspectives as well (as best he could) based on the information he collected.
Does get a bit "long" at times, but I would guess fighting in World War I felt "long" as well...
Must have prior interest in World War I history to appreciate the magnitude of this account.
As a history teacher, I'm really glad I was finally able to read it.
Wow... I had no idea this was what World War One held for those who fought. This book was amazing and would have been 5 stars if not for the length and repetition of themes. Basically it was a gruesome, innocence taking, probably avoidable war. If you want to understand WWI at the ground level read this book!
It is an unflinching, in-the-mud account of the first modern war.
It gives you a true understanding of how the world changed from beginning to end.
I can't recommend this book enough if you want to get to the heart of the great war and understand the daily suffering and psychology of the war.While reading this, I often felt that I could smell the smoke of rifle fire, feel the mud and water of the trenches in my boots or take in the evening air under an artillery barrage.
This is a testament to war correspondence and to human strength.
It’s somewhat hard to believe that this book was written 100 years ago. The descriptions of the cruelties man inflicts upon man, the manipulation of those powerful in society against those not so. But so powerful is the description of the human spirit. The endurance of the human soul. The ability of those to believe and sacrifice yet unknowing that many of those in control are unfit to hold that position. Such a good book and so well written. Oh, and keep a map handy, locations given are fascinating.
I have a reasonably good lay knowledge of the political & military history of WW1: the archduke, trench warfare, etc. But this firsthand account by a British war correspondent who experienced the whole thing from beginning to end provides a much more personal and up-close account. Very worthwhile, and wonderfully written.
Mr. Gibbs did an amazing job of detailing the horrors of war, things I had never really considered, for example, the stench. A must read in understanding at least part of World War I, or the Great War, the War to end all Wars... which as we now know it wasn't.
Interesting look at the smaller picture of the British WWI experience. Written from the perspective of a war correspondent who sees the senseless waste of an entire generation of lives for the enrichment of a dying aristocracy that can't let the old world go.
Great bookHeavy stuff, gets in depth with conditions British soldiers faced and attitudes during the campaigns in France. Great read. People should definitely check it out.
Good ReadThe cover is of World War 2, not WW1 that the book is about? Very good read i would recommend it.
A war to end all wars WW1 told by way of the truth at last. If only it were read by all the world's leaders in 1919 when it was written, there would never have been another war.
I found this an incredible read, a necessary read, for anyone wanting to understand more about WWI from a contemporary (it was published in 1920, for crying out loud).Must read, must read...the style is interesting, in that it feels a bit disjointed, but the pattern follows the war in a sense: moments of tedium and then intense action, drama, suffering.
There aren't interviews or many big names, and this is written from the British perspective.
There's casual name-dropping in a few instances, and no names in many more, but places and general descriptions where it's necessary.
Written shortly after the war, when journalist Philip Gibbs was finally able to publish what the censors had blocked while the fighting was still going on.
Gibbs goes to some dark places and generally finds some dark things, although he also attempts to convey the fact that "the boys" attempted to triumph over adversity, both physical and mental.
The Germans get a fairer shake.Anyway, Gibbs' is an interesting story.
Unlike many of the front line soldiers, who would have been killed or incapacitated during this time frame, he was there for the whole show, 1914-1918 and saw all the changes in the men, the terrain, the cities/towns/villages and the war machine over that period of time.

Gibbs is not quite at the level that Ernie Pyle would later reach, but the feel is similar; it's down in the mud, rain and blood, and shows the one line "objective taken with some sharp fighting" in the official histories as the almost pointless slaughter they were.
A bit too close to the ground to get the full picture, and later revisionist histories present a fairer and more accurate account of what the generals were trying for, and how tactics and strategies were continually evolving.
Regardless, the only way that July 1st 1916 can truly be understood is from close enough to feel the sense of hopeless (prayers for rain unnecessary)(view spoiler)[The Germans lose.
While it seems to linger at the edges of naivete at times, the conclusion is so otherwise that I wonder if the author wasn't trying to show his progression by the end of the conflict? And his hopes that society has progressed in the same way that he has.It captures the horrors, irony, as well as the not so horrible moments within war with wisdom, insight, and intelligence.
Good, but a little out of my depth with the references to people and places. A more thorough knowledge of the battles and key British players in WWI would have served to make it a more enjoyable read, but that is my lack of education on the subject matter and not the author's writing style.
I didn't finish. Just too hard to read. I suspect if read in 1915 there would have been enough context in popular culture for it to make sense. But it is too disjointed, stumbling and vague. I just couldn't get into it.
Heartbreaking reminiscences about WW1 by a British journalist who covered it and somehow survived. You want to tear your hair out at the senseless slaughter that he describes. How anyone lived through this and remained sane I cannot imagine.
Absolutely stunning. The final part entitled "For What Men Died" should be read by every one alive. Profound lessons seemingly ignored for a hundred years.
This is an outstanding work, written by the WWI equivalent of the embedded reporter, and it told mainly from the perspective of the fighting man. It is one of the best accounts I've encountered.
On my Ww1 binge right now. This is a gripping first person historical account. It is exhaustive and long so we'll see if I make it through.
