https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64207.Sorcery_Cecelia
With some post-game trimming and polishing, they actually ended up with a publishable novel.Given that each author was writing as a specific character, it's interesting that both of the girls' voices sounded so much alike to me.
However, the story overall is a fun, light Regency, with some nice bits of magic and witty dialogue between the characters.
I am determined to have the headache Thursday, if I have to hit myself with a rock to do it.There are even a few deeper moments, like when Kate is examining a magical chessboard with enameled pieces:I bent close to admire the detail of the white queen's cloak (I could see the black-tipped ermine) and jumped.
One of my all time favorite books, Sorcery and Cecelia started out as a letter game between two brilliant writers.
The authors clearly enjoyed themselves and the resulting novel is a joy to read, both as a story and as a window into the fun experienced by to marvelous authors.
There are several ditty-like romances, and a tidy little ending that makes for an amuse-bouche of a read - tasty and bite sized.
There are two follow up books, however, this one stands beautifully alone.
If you shut your brain off and enjoy it as a light, fluffy, delicious bon bon, its wonderful.The problems: The authors wrote this by doing "The Letter Game"- in which the participants write letters to each other in character.
Another thing that bothered me- it seemed like the authors did all of their research out of Georgette Heyer and a basic reference guide to the times and grabbed random bits.
Imamo dve klinke rođake koje se dopisuju na relaciji provincija-London, zle čarobnjake, dobre čarobnjake, seksi čarobnjake, začarane ibrike za kakao (od plavog porcelana, moliću) i začarane burmutice, dosta humora, balove i haljine na kilo (mnogo haljina.
Čarobnjačke zavere pritom su u dalekom drugom planu.) i dve tete koje su knjigu sastavile dopisujući se vikendom i očigledno su se ludo provodile.
Jeste da se glasovi ne razlikuju dovoljno i da u zapletu ima rupa kroz koje možete vola proterati, ali sve je tako šarmantno šašavo i nepretenciozno da ne znam ko bi se na ovu knjigu naljutio.
Each letter starts as a first-person description of events, but quickly becomes an unidentified omniscient narrator with quoted dialogue.
No one writes a letter like this.
Perhaps the authors were trying to make it feel like a movie where the letter-writer begins the narration that flashes back into the actual story.
I find it highly implausible that a young lady who has just been abducted by enchantment will start off her letter calmly reciting what color dress she wore to the party.
This is just being finicky, but I really thought the title was cool before I read the book...
What is this book without Cecelia AND Kate?
It's a little bit mystery, a little bit fantasy, there's a little magic and a little romance, all set in the early 1800's England.The story takes place around cousins Cecelia and Kate, one goes to London for the summer, the other remains in the country.
Both girls quickly become involved in a dangerous and magic-related mystery.
I only gave this book 4 stars because, for me, the beginning was a bit dull and it took a while for the plot to evolve.
I enjoyed both stories and felt that both Cecelia and Kate were dynamic and complete characters.
Aside from that, one of the most important things to know about this book is its alternate title: The Enchanted Chocolate Pot: Being the Correspondence of Two Young Ladies of Quality Regarding Various Magical Scandals in London and the Country.Wrede and Stevermer wrote this book as a writing exercise of sorts called the Letter Game.
The comparison does make sense, but I might venture to say I liked this book better than any of the Harry Potter series.The year is 1817 in an England where magic is as much a part of life as letter writing.
I first read this book a bajillion (okay, fifteen) years ago and remembered nothing about it (which makes sense, since I was like nine).
When I found this hiding on my shelves, I decided to give it another visit, since I was in a terrible slump, and OMG I cannot recomment this DELIGHTFUL little treat of a book more.
It's Regency fun with ADDED MAGIC and hilarious, wonderful narrators.
Seriously, this book SPARKLES.
it's so full of life and so charming and vivid and hilarious, and the heroines are so fiendishly clever and sensible and are always stepping in when their love interests bungle everything.
God, I love this book.
It begins as exchanged letters between two teenage girls, seemingly Victorian era.
The authors do a decent jobs of within-letter asides that help explain things, but it's clearly best if one already knows something about Victorian society, structure and constraints.
In the afterword, the authors explained how they didn't communicate directly about the plot until three or four letters within the ending of the novel, which is amazing given the relative coherence of the book.Being generous, I rounded upward; I think this is a 2 and a half star book for me, but if you like the narrative structure, undoubtedly it will rate higher.
Also, this is NOT that "magical"--one can learn to be a wizard and magic is certainly used, but it's not like HP in that the world is very much Regency England with a small smattering of magic worked in, rather than being a whole world created around magic.
That is not to say, though, that it wasn't a delightful romp through Regency England complete with wizardry!
What a delightful novel! I thoroughly enjoyed getting stuck in Cecy & Kate's story, which was a combination of magic and whimsy and friendship and romance. It did take me a little time to properly warm up to the epistolary style (as I don't read stories like that often), but it was definitely a story I was fully invested in by the end.
I first read this book as a teenager after searching out basically anything and everything of Patrica Wrede's (her Enchanted Forest Chronicles series basically represents my entire middle school reading experience considering how many times I've re-read it...).
The Regency era setting was done perfectly, and the way that magic was mixed in as a natural aspect of the time was done seamlessly.
Anywho - I loved this just as much (if not more) the second time around, and I am definitely going to re-up my attempts to get anyone and everyone I know that professes to love Regency era, magic, romance, or banter to give this one a shot!
The only interesting thing that happened was very early where Kate (or was it Cecelia?
Nothing else happens.I loved the premise and the letter writing 2 authors but there was no meat to the story.
And sorry,But at 50% into the book, SOMETHING should have happened.
it was honestly as boring as reading notes passed between two 10 year olds "what r u doing this weekend?" " I dunno what r u doing?" "I might go out dancing.
Do you like dancing?" "I do but I'm a horrible dancer".
...Except write it all "British " and add lots of tea.People apparently will love it.
In this book, it presents the perspective of very young and sheltered girls - which is probably why this is considered a young adult novel.As mentioned in the afterword, this book originated as a letter game between the two authors.
While this probably adds to the charm and the uniqueness of the characters, it also means that the plot is a bit flimsy.
This novel is unique enough to make it a fun read for anyone interested in historically based fantasy; it also should appeal to anyone interested in traditional regency romance, if you don't mind a bit of magic.
Cute, interesting, fast read. Really fun epistolary novel (written as letters between two friends). I somehow missed posting 2016 reading dates for this.
As one of my fellow reviewers has summarised it, Sorcery & Cecelia is an enjoyable beach read for when you want some fluffy fare but don't want to think too hard (and I liked the characters enough that I'll probably continue the series, too).Probably the most fascinating thing about this book, actually, is how it was written, which the Afterword explains -- I was curious if the two authors really didn't discuss plot with each other, and was pleased/impressed to learn that Wrede & Stevermer did commit to The Letter Game.
By the end they began to show their own personality a bit (a wee, tiny, tiny bit) but mostly it felt like they were the same person except one had magic.
I liked him a lot) Not necessarily a bad thing, but at the beginning there were so many young men introduced (from Twins to neighbor boys) that I was reminded of writing as a teenager.
You write in a lot of men and cast about for whichever one your heroine has the most chemistry with.
Thankfully, in this the author succeeds, as the characters have dramatic misunderstandings followed undoubtable chemistry.
I enjoyed this book.
To anyone who picks up this book, I would suggest first reading the "Afterword" at the end of the book (it really should have been a "Foreword").
It explains how the book came to be, doesn't contain any plot spoilers, and I think had I read the book with that knowledge I might have enjoyed it even more.
My main complaints were, first, that the language in the book is a little too contrived.
Secondly, even though there is a different author behind each main character, the voices were difficult to differentiate.
An absolute joy to read, and one of my favorite books ever. I love the humor, the dual romances, and the mix of Regency England and magic. I can’t count the number of times I’ve read this book, but it’s a lot! If you haven’t read it and you love Regency romances, I highly recommend it. (Heat rating is similar to Georgette Heyer, i.e. no steam.)
THIS WAS MY EVERYTHING.1) Regency2) Magic3) Epistolary 4) Romance5) ALL OF THAT ADDS UP TO ME BEING BLISSFULLY HAPPYForever bitter that I couldn't move this ahead. THANKS A LOT, MIREILLE.
This is another of those Englands that just has magic lying around to spare, no big thing, it's just there, good for fighting off Napoleon and stuff.If you like dry humor, epistolary novels, witchcraft, duels, Jane Austen, Regency romances, mysteries, antagonistic relationships full of squabbly love, plucky heroines, and men that need a little rescuing, then you'll love this.
It's also unclear how old the main characters are, but ultimately it isn't a big deal; they're clearly mature, resourceful girls.
I just had to trust that the men they were hanging around weren't too old for them.
Elisabeth Bennet meets Harry Potter. Well, sort of. I loved, loved, loved this Jane Austen-esque novel that follows the format of letters written between two cousins. Actually, that is how the book was originally written. The two authors adopted the personas and wrote letters to each other, creating the story.Being Jane Austen-esque, it is of course a romance with much attention paid to social etiquettes and proprieties (and improprieties). However, the magic is largely the intrigue that is thrown in.Very fun! I'm excited to read the sequel.
Georgette Heyer meets Harry Potter! And it's an epistolary novel!! A little hard to follow - I had trouble keeping the characters straight and could have used a bit more descriptions, but still a lot of fun.Sadly, its sequel, The Grand Tour is awful, as the girls play passive roles, and merely report on the actions of their husbands as they travel through Europe.
9/6/18 $1.99 for Kindle.
I loved finding allusions like "messing about in boats" and "ill-met by moonlight," references to Walpole, Lady Caroline Lamb and Lord Byron, and the title of the book The Theory and Practice of Charms: Being an Inquiry int the Making of Bags, Boxes, and the Like by Cuntry Witches and Their Ilk. I loved the odious Mysterious Marquis, the magic, and both Cece and Kate.The opening letters are a bit slow, but serve to give an impression, an atmosphere, of the time period; the pace quickly picks up, however, as our undaunted heroines exert their efforts with aplomb and determination.When I finished, I discovered that the process of writing was a game the two authors engaged in.
Excellent effervescent epistolary excels exquisitely-- not eternal or enterprising or evocative--just easeful, entertaining, and enchanting.Read aloud, back and forth, during a Spring that came too late, just before a summer that came too hot.
As it was, I wanted it to be over.WRITING METHOD:The entire book consists of letters between Cecy and Kate - an epistolary novel.
The letters also have a diary feel (Aunt wouldn’t let me do something, Mr moved back to town, I went on a picnic with friends and this happened while on the picnic, ...) I was bored during the first 100 pages.
Then they went back and edited for plot consistency.There was some dialogue in the letters which helped, for example Kate describes her conversation with someone.
I liked how one character stole/borrowed magic books to study and then secretly put them back later.
And here we have one of the examples.Imagine:* a sweet Regency romance* two witty and inquisitive young girls, best friends* the world of manners (rules for girls, behaviors and so on)* a subtle magic which exist but doesn't rule the world* and some mystery to solve (which brings danger and shows you who you really are).What you can get from this mixing?
As a result one of those games they created this novel.I simply love this book.
Lighthearted, witty, engaging, lovely, charming, funny."My first thought was “Earthquake!” My second, “I will never be able to wear this bonnet again" ;-)I am not a fan of fantasy but I can appreciate when magic in the book gives it something precious.
This book could SOOOO easily be terrible, but it's not - it's really well written and thought out and fun!
The authors don't overwrite the magic parts, don't draw unnecessary attention to it to make sure that you're aware that this isn't normal Regency England.
This is a major complaint of mine in many books of this style (Pride and Prejudice and Zombies, for one, or Soulless), and it was refreshing to see that this novel didn't fall into that same tone.
The pure historical fiction parts are also very effortless and enjoyable, so the reader feels that this is a complete world that existed before the authors decided to record it.
In the parallel universe where I'm a writer of fantasy fiction, I hope all the books that I write are almost as good as Sorcery and Cecelia.
I say "almost" because nothing I could write in any universe can possible surpass this, one of my favorite books of all time.
I own the original Ace paperback, and was one of the few back in the good old days that was even aware of this book, before it was re-released, before the two (sort of humdrum) sequels.
I have read many books I love, but this one is definitely among the cream at the top.
