https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16055.The_Magician_s_Assistant
I know you are thinking, is there a book you don't like, Laura?
If I don't like a book I can barely read it, much less finish it.
You sit there for a while, because you're thinking if you open the book again, you will have found that you missed a chapter, that there is MORE.When a story ends but leaves you still thinking about each character and who they are and why they do what they do, that they are probable, even if their situations aren't, and what would happen if the story kept going, then it is a story worth reading.
So read it!
Is this really Ann Patchett?
While the story was mildly intriguing, I couldn't really like the main character.
Sabine seemed too satisfied with living a half-life (in love with a gay man, an assistant instead of a magician, a maker of architectural models rather than an architect, etc.).
The literary symbolism also seemed clumsy and obvious (last name Fetters, for example).
Finally, and most annoying to me as I live here, the ridiculous caricature of Midwesterners made me want to scream.
The first sentence: Ann Patchett lives in Los Angeles...no kidding!
Throughout the whole thing, I was never exactly sure how much I was enjoying it, and yet I couldn't wait to pick the book back up and continue reading.
By time the book was done, I wanted to read more, and wanted the story to continue.The story itself is strange, very strange, but it draws you in immediately.
I know this is a clear choice of style, but I found it really hard to be able to start the book up again after putting it down for the night, so the book that was meant to flow so perfectly ended up being a bit choppy because there was never a good place to stop and think.
This is my second Patchett novel, and I liked it even less than the previous one I read ( State of Wonder ).First, I totally misunderstood the premise of this novel. I thought our heroine Sabine's lovely hottie magician husband dies, and then she discovers he was secretly gay, and then discovers he lied about his family being dead and seeks them out blah blah. Instead, the story is that Sabine's lovely hottie magician husband is openly gay and only marries her in the last year so she may inherit
I thought our heroine Sabine's lovely hottie magician husband dies, and then she discovers he was secretly gay, and then discovers he lied about his family being dead and seeks them out blah blah.
I think we were supposed to like and relate to Sabine but I found her in need of therapy and some time alone to think about who she is and what she wants from her life.My next complaint is a little harder to articulate, but there was something dated, I guess, about the novel's feel regarding gays.
The West Coast magician reinvented himself too well to have any connection to the Midwestern teenager (by the way, the Midwest is NOT as bleak and backward as portrayed in the book--the stereotypes were obnoxious).
But, the novel is called The Magician's Assistant, and really is about Sabine's search for...something (I'm from the Midwest and not "with it" enough to figure out what).
My best description of the novel, after reading it, was that I felt like I was eavesdropping on someone else's conversation: I wasn't in earshot for the beginning and didn't get to hear the end, but it helped pass the time while I was sitting there.
The Magician’s Assistant is Sabine, and she is mourning the sudden loss of her husband, Parsifal.
Sabine had been Parsifal’s long-time assistant in his magic act, but more importantly, they shared a bond of friendship that was unbreakable.
When Parsifal’s lawyer notifies Sabine that he had a family (who he claimed were dead) and that his name is really Guy Fetters, Sabine’s world gets turned on its head.
So the Fetter family enters Sabine’s life, and the book follows the development of these new relationships seamlessly.There is a hint of magic in Patchett’s writing, and not just the tricks and illusions she recalls in The Magician’s Assistant.
The Magician’s Assistant ***  Ann PatchettI found the trio of Sabine, Parsifal and Phan all too good, too unflawed, too beautiful, and Sabine's adoration of Parsifal for 22 years was a little hard to fathom. There was apparently no heartache, no discord. In addition, Sabine had been so in love with the glamorous, gay Parsifal that she had failed to realize that she was really gay herself, and thus her attraction to Kitty at the end. That was a bit of a stretch--this beautiful, personable, intell
In addition, Sabine had been so in love with the glamorous, gay Parsifal that she had failed to realize that she was really gay herself, and thus her attraction to Kitty at the end.
I did like reading about a magician's life, having known little about this before, and I did like the way Patchett used dreams in this novel to advance the story or add information that would have been hard to introduce otherwise.
They weren't your usual dreams, but more like dialogues with the dead--well, mainly Sabine and Phan, leading up to Parsifal's appearance at the end.
The dreams put the reader in touch with Sabine’s grief and how the grief changes slowly over time.
I picked this book up a few times and lost interest before finishing the first page. But when I finally got past the first three or four pages, I was really hooked. This characters are just so, so compelling. They're actually so compelling that when I was partway through the book I almost lit a candle at church for two of the characters in it, temporarily confusing them with real people. Which I _think_ is more a testament to how well-written and absorbing the book is than to how socially maladjusted I am.
The closer I got to the end of this book, the more obsessed I became with it, wanting to make sure that everyone was going to be okay, at least in some sense of the word.
The Magician's Assistant follows the same pattern of Patchett's other novels: An unsuspecting character is thrust into a world full of people he/she never even dreamed of, replete with drama and emotion and confusion—as well as hope and love.
Her stories can be one-sided, but she creates sympathetic characters who come to life for me in ways that few authors can manage.
Certain passages of this novel actually made me cry; that is how well Patchett creates authentic characters with real emotions.
Digital audio book performed by Karen Ziemba3.5***From the book jacket: Sabine – twenty years a magician’s assistant to her handsome, charming husband – is suddenly a widow.
Named as heirs in his will, they enter Sabine’s life and set her on an adventure of unraveling his secrets, from sunny Los Angeles to the windswept plains of Nebraska, that will work its own sort of magic on her.
Even the deceased – Parsifal, Phan, Albert – are alive in the way they are remembered by Sabine, by Dot, or by Kitty.
Sabine is a different person in sunny Los Angeles than she is in snowy Nebraska.
Karen Ziemba does a fine job performing the audio book.
Sabine, the assistant of the title, is left to grieve.My thoughts: After having loved State of Wonder, Bel Canto, and Run, I was convinced Ann Patchett was one of my literary soul sisters who could do no wrong.
Patchett kept reminding me Sabine was in her forties, and I couldn't help but feel sad for her: she married a man who only loved her as a friend and has nothing else after his death but his money and the money of Phan.As pitiful as Sabine was, I still kept hoping to connect with this novel.
They want to be caught."The verdict: Despite my love of Patchett's writing, I never connected with Sabine in this story, and I never felt truly engaged with the narrative.
This morning, my belligerent son used his well-honed fingernails to pierce a hole in my hand, drawing blood.
When I felt the pain, I smacked his hand away in self defense.
I think he feels the same.
He is six, and he has beautiful eyes.Of course, were he to be diagnosed with brain cancer, my heart would explode and die, and my will to live would wane faster than you could say intentional overdose.
What I want is to start over, not just today, but everything.Sorry, I don't really have a point here, so I think I'll just end this aimless post mid-thought.
Five stars with reluctance since I couldn't describe what the attraction this book had for me. Whether it was the grass is greener concept or we're all the same, or the draw of magic. The sad life of Sabine moved to a new chapter although she will likely continue to live propelled with other people's direction.I absolutely loved the character of the rabbit who seemed a cross between a cat and dog.
In my analysis of this book, I have to remind myself that Patchett had written it prior to her amazing, "Bel Canto" and her most recent, "Run".
She was so adept at this in "Bel Canto", one could almost hear the music!"The Magician's Assistant" is Sabine, recent widow of Parsifal,a talented, complex magician.
Throughout this book, Sabine's grief and sense of loss is poignantly felt.
Other characterizations are vivid, varied and, for the most part, engaging.Although the subject of mourning and grief would appear unappealing, Patchett has created a compelling, warm novel.
With The Magicians Assistant, Ann Patchett has performed the proverbial "Hat Trick" with a tale that is filled with beautiful writing but contains nothing new in the way of plot.
This story of a woman in love with a man who is in love with a man, as well as the "tragic" childhood experiences and hidden family with a trunkful of secrets are classic Hollywood fodder and not worthy of the woman who gave us Bel Canto and Patron Saint of Liars.
All I can say is you had better pack a large lunch to take along on this trip, because that is the only thing that will sustain you, since there is little in this story to feed your grey matter.
The main character in this book is a woman who has been in love with a gay man, the magician to her magician's assistant, for over 20 years.
The man and his lover have just died of AIDS and she is left behind in the house the three of them had shared.
The main character in the book was really Parsifal and you just learn everything about him through her, but she really doesn't have a voice of her own - until maybe the very end.
I still love this book, still love the glittering magic of LA and the gritty, land-bound Nebraska setting.
I loved this book at 19, then at 22, then at 24.
Everyone felt so much older then; reading it now, I'm older than the youngest main character in the story, Bertie, and what hit hardest was how this was a story of grown ups not knowing what the hell they're doing and making poor decisions.
This is never her story, so it's interesting she's the narrator.
Every time I read it, I hope to know more about her.
It's not her story though.
I found this to be a quick, somewhat compelling read, but it really fell flat for me when there was no good resolution. I expected the ending to be much more significant/meaningful/profound than it was - instead, it felt really empty. I also predicted it about 1/3 of the way through the book, and it played out in a really hollow way, I thought. Probably not worth reading if you haven't already, though it's quick so you could always try it w/out wasting much time.
Either way, Patchett unfolds it beautifully and it is completely understandable from a psychological perspective.I loved the subtle revelation of Howard's relationship with Kitty.
It goes great as a concept with the first quote above...all that ever happens once you get something (an object, knowledge, or love from the unattainable) is that you find a new thing to want.This is a beautifully written, compelling and complex work that manages to be witty at the same time.
Within the first 50 pages or so, you know quite a few things about Sabine: (view spoiler)[*She's lived in Los Angeles most of her life.*She could have been an architect, but instead she makes architectural models.
His partner died first, then Parsifal married Sabine so that she would inherit all his stuff.
*Parsifal was actually named Guy, was from Nebraska, and his mother and two sisters are very much alive...and want to meet Sabine.
This is small town, white bread, 1990s Nebraska, as seen from the point of view of an author and a main character who have spent their lives in LA.
(view spoiler)[Will Sabine actually start living her own life?
We meet Sabine as she mourns the death of her husband, Parsifal.
When a lawyer comes to Sabine with details of the will, she learns that everything Parsifal had told her about his upbringing was a lie.
His mother and sister come to Los Angeles, meet with Sabine and mourn together.
What other parallelisms will Pratchett reveal?Although the tale of a secret past revealed is interesting, the action is very deliberate, and I found that I was eager for her to pick up the pace.
Went down like pablum.
Bland, but healthy, just like a Hallmark movie.
Sabine’s magician husband, Parsifal, has just died at the beginning of this story.
This story I would have liked to learn a lot more about.
Instead, the story focuses on her grief.
After Parsifal’s death she learns he has a family in Nebraska she never knew about.
She spends most of the book coming to terms with a dark secret from Parsifal’s youth and sharing her love and grief over losing him with the family he tried to forget.The story is touching, and the characters are well drawn.
This is the first book by Ann Patchett I've ever read.
It won't be my last.For 20 years Sabine has been the assistant to the brilliant magician, Parsifal, with whom she has also been obsessively in love.
But, once she's a widow, the grieving Sabine begins to make all sorts of startling discoveries about the magician whom she thought she knew so thoroughly, and about herself as well.Anything more I tell you will be a spoiler.
Suffice to say, this is a well written book and it held my interest to the end.
Maybe I am biased when it comes to Ann Patchett but I just loved loved loved this book. Wonderful story about Sabina who is wife, partner and friend for more than 20 years to Parsifal, a magician. After Parsifal dies Sabine finds out that he has a Mother, two sisters and two nephews living in Nebraska that she never knew anything about. The book is about love and relationships, family, magic, secrets and friendship. So beautifully written, just loved it highly recommend.
I truly love Ann Patchett's writing.
They are so well presented and developed so that by the end I have a clear vision of who they are...even if they don't know have such a clear view of themselves.I love love loved the characters and they made this book so good.This book was such a beautiful and emotion description of deep grief from different point of views.
It's more of just a portrait of grief and "real" people's lives and thoughts.
I am starting to ramble, but it's hard to really review this book as I thought it was unique, but also in Ann Patchett's lovely style.
I'm happy to say this book remedied my aversion to reading Ann Patchett novels.Sabine is the magician's assistant, her husband, Parsifal, the magician, has just passed away.
When she reaches out to them their mutual love for Parsifal sparks an unexpected relationship.I really enjoyed this story, there was a real sweetness to the character's and the author does a wonderful job describing the love and devotion they felt for one another.
I'm glad I read this and now I'm looking forward to reading Bel Canto with a sense of anticipation.
All the characters in this story are so multi-dimensional that I found myself simply engaging with them at a human level and losing the critical distance I usually maintain when I read fiction.
My only real complaint with the novel involves the pacing.
Some of the narrative changes were a bit abrupt and, on the other hand, the Nebraska sections drag on with lots of detail about Walmart and kitchens tables, but overall the novel is very satisfying.
Finding love in unexpected places and learning to love in unexpected ways are the two themes that stayed with me after this novel.
Hard to believe it's the same Ann Patchett who wrote such masterpieces as 'Bel Canto,' 'Commonwealth' and 'State of Wonder.' It's unfortunate, too, because the premise was such a promising one: a woman loses her husband and learns more about him in death than she ever did in life.
But I found myself painfully bored by Sabine's journey; even the few unexpected things she discovers about her husband are only minimally revelatory.
Perhaps more surprising is the absence of that exquisite writing for which Patchett has long been known -- and because of it, the novel was much harder to get through and even more uninspiring.
My favorite Ann Patchett book I've read since Run. I prefer it to Commonwealth, which seems a bit off balance, maybe because of the autobiographical elements. The premise is rich and I'm really sad to leave these characters. Took me a little while to like it, but I was definitely a fan by the end.
I wonder about her brain, "why did she say that like that?!", ooo - that was an odd string of words, but it worked...
It was cool how AP seemed to want to know more about magic, about people who build really tiny architectural models, about people who might live in small town Nebraska...I am still not sure how I felt about the narrator.
Do people in Alliance Neb sound like that?
Not sure AT ALL.
Not sure AT ALL.
Some of the Neb stuff didn't sound right, but some of it made me laugh out loud.
