https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184324.Dark_Demon
5 Xena warrior woman Stars *Spoilers*First read August 2012 Reread February 10, 2016February 8 2017"Do you think I'm going to make it easy on you? I'm not really happy with you, Freddie boy." This time the anger stayed. Brown stains appeared on his teeth. "I am not Freddie. Who is Freddie? My name is Henrik." "You don't get out much do you? Haven't you ever watched the late night movies? Freddie's a regular star. A very ugly mass murderer, much like yourself"-Natalya and vampire She was not acti
If you plan on spending any time at all around me, strike words like 'forbid' and 'allow' from your vocabulary."-Vikirnoff and NatalyaI loved everything about Natalya!
"You know, when you started in about the entire lifemate thing, I didn't protest too much, because you were kind of cute." Natalya pulled her gaze away from a shimmering face with its mouth open in a scream.
Take the blood your prince offers you and choose life.-Natalya and Gabrielle  (hide spoiler)] The vampires in this book are way more kick ass too.
"Just asking, in case, you know, you wanted to start keeping me happy."-Vikirnoff and Natalya This book was so fucking awesome.
Another fantastic read in this series! I loved Vikirnoff- he is an amazing hero! He is right up there with Gregori! Natalya was awesome- she had so many different gifts and she can use magic! I loved it! Gregori was in this one briefly- I always want more Gregori, but I don't like him being injured:(
Dark Demon is book 16 of Christine Feehan's wonderful Dark Carpathian series.
We first met Natalya in Feehan's Dark Secret and Vikirnoff in Dark Destiny.
He knows she is not quite human, and not quite Carpathian, but she is the light to his darkness, the woman he is destined to love and protect for all time.
Dark Demon is the best Carpathian book I've read since Dark Destiny (book 13).
Natalya is hands downs one of Feehan's best heroines to date and maybe my favorite lifemate in the series so far.
Another is that, before the men find their lifemates they're always going on about how they can't feel emotions - fair enough, I like that bit - but in this book Vikirnoff is lamenting the fact that he feels nothing "but loneliness" (well that's something!) and then Natalya sends a telepathic message that his emotions are distracting her from her fight with the vampires - and lo and behold he feels emotions and sees colours again because she's his lifemate!
This book would make a great movie!Vikirnoff, what can I say?
Great love scenes, if I may say so.I'm a little confused on how things all tie together with Razvan, Xavier, and the master vamps' master plan, but I'm going to keep reading to see where things go with this storyline.
I haven't read a handful of the books, so my interest was perked in seeing some of the Carpathians I wasn't introduced to.
Like I said, I'm totally voting for this one to be made into a movie (by the right director, of course).I was really glad that I enjoyed this book, since I definitely got intrigued with Vikirnoff from his appearances in Dark Secret and Dark Destiny.
In some ways, I miss the simplicity of the first books, but I understand that the author had to expand and change things to keep it interesting.Vikirnoff was AWESOME!!!
Loved that stoic, solid, ultra-supportive, badass hero.
I know most paranormal seems to write badass females and I really am not interested in just that type.
I think the relationship between Vikirnoff and Natalya was wonderful though.
Loved all the old characters who showed up -- it was even better than the last book where so many showed up (I think it was Dark Melody).
Loved Mikhail so much.
"Dark Demon" is the story of Natalya and Vikirnoff.Natalya is the fighter of the dark- a Xena warrior-esque tigress having 1/3 of Carpathian,Human and Mage blood in her.
The murder and memories of her twin Razwan and her parents dead cloud her memories, making her hunt vampires and have hatred against the Carpathians.When one such fight goes awry, she unwillingly summons Vikirnoff, a Carpathian on the verge on darkness- who turns out to be her lifemate.Together they along with Mikhail and some new additions fight the evil vampires, the Troll king, the Shadow Hunters while decoding the mystery behind the Dragon warrior clan as well as Natalya's clouded memories.Kickass brave heroine and a caring alpha hero have loads of adventures in this one.
Because of lies and mind manipulation, Natalya doesn't have an accurate idea of her family history and thinks that the Carpathians are as bad as the vampires and would kill her on sight.
He helps her but because of Natalya's history, she thinks that Vikirnoff wants to kill her and she doesn't trust him.
When they drive the vampires off, Vikirnoff is severely hurt and Natalya finds that she has a strong need to help him and can't leave him behind.
Natalya totally rocked! I liked Vikirnoff too, but I was really impressed with Natalya. She kicked ass. Not sure when the Carpathians became the weaker species, but they seem to be getting their asses kicked a lot. This was a great edition to the series.
This book had a lot more happening in it than the other ones, and the ending was absolutely amazing - not the normal, she converted, small vampire fight and they lived happily ever after - a lot more here.The attraction between these 2 is sizzling...and at the same time actually believable in a beyond the fairy tale way (am i still making sense?) I loved the part where Vikirnoff completely loses it during Natalya's conversion into a full Carpathian.
The only thing keeping Vikirnoff Von Shrieder from seeking out the dawn (to end his existence) was the search for a specific psychic woman that had started in the US (Dark Destiny) and finally brought him back to his home in the Carpathian Mountains.
The miracle of her being his lifemate brought on fear and terror first because his first site of Natalya Shonski was of her in battle with a vampire.
Fun - We met Vikirnoff in Dark Destiny and started to hear about Natalya (even though we didn’t know much about her back then).
I have enjoyed all books in the series but book #16, Dark Demon, I really loved.
Finally we get Natalya & Virkirnoff who we have met in previous books but never together.
The action and fighting is non-stop but never overdone, the same with the sex scenes, which were really sensual and …yes hot and sexy too…but with some tender and sweet moments as well.The series continues to be as exciting as ever and I wait for each book with abated breath….to continue my journey into the incredible world of the Carpathians
Her mage blood line comes from the Carpathians sworn enemy, who stole a Carpathian life mate after killing her lifemate.She is on the search of a knife and a book that has spells in it that her evil grandfather sealed with the 3 bloods of a Carpathain, Mage and the Dragonseeker) And only 1 who carries all three bloodlines can open this book.Her lifemate is Vikirnoff who is on his way back to the Carpathian mountains to say goodby to his prince, and to end his life, until he hears her voice inside his head and he sees colors and he gets his emotions back.In this book near the end, you will read about the power that is written in all her other books.
In this book you will read about why the Prince (Mikhail)is so important to all the Carpathians and their surviveral
This book is okay.
It's not the best of the Dark series, but it's not the worst either.
It wasn't very memorable for me, which is a shame, because the other Dark series books have been incredibly memorable.
I do know I liked both the hero, Virkinoff, and the heroine, Natalya.
I liked their romance; they had really good chemistry, and their relationship developed along easier lines than some of the other Dark romances.
But I did feel like there were a few too many sex scenes in the book.
I felt like they spent half the book boinking, and I just got bored with it.
definitivamente este libro me dio mas datos acerca de la serie, no niego me gusto, ahora ya lo que toca es terminar de leer la serie aunque con este serian cinco y van muchos, no se tiran densos ni cañones solo que la autora no se apiada de nosotros y sigue escribiendo
Loved itThis one of the best dark series book that I have read. I can't wait to read the next book.
Really enjoyed this novel with the dragonseekers line as part of the Carpathian world state.
I found Vik and Natalya really strong likeable characters and the movie references made me giggle.
I was slightly disappointed that she didn't turn into a dragon as her uncle did when fighting the vampires.
Another thing I was disappointed over was the dragons found in the ice.
Dragons are always great in a paranormal book.
It was also nice at the end of the book getting a more fuller understanding of the Carpathian healing chants and language of this world state.
This book kicked so much ass!Love Natalya!
Like really love her.
Vikirnoff a lucky man.
Their book was epic.
Their battles were vicious!
That battle in the ice cave.
Couldn’t put the book down.
Natalya’s magik skills.
OMG!
And she shifts into a TIGER!
A freaking tiger!And CF added Mikhail, Raven, Falcon, Sara into the mix and introduced Dominic.
And that final freakin battle.
Holy crap!
I had to read it twice to make sure I didn’t miss anything.
So I kinda luuurved the hell out of this book.
And Natalya’s brother, so sad he turned to the dark side.
I keep coming back to these books because I like the stories but they take longer and longer to finish.This was a very good overall story.
Although since I read Dark Slayer probably as a 6th or 7th book, I knew that strong non doormat types did exist.
OK there have been some strong women (and some doormats) in this series, but not kickass and Natalya is.I liked Vikirnoff too.
Really I am judging it on the fact that I read six books in between starting this and finishing this as I put this down a lot.
So many books I've read are so similar (the Kings series by Keough, Vampire Academy (less the graphic sex stuff), but most definitely the plot lines.
A little heavier then I'd prefer (didn't really need to know what was going where - but hey, some people like that.) and too much in the cave.I kept wondering - what the hell, there's a shit load of people plotting against Mikhail, and Vik and Nat were busy getting it on, a lot - thank god for the little pink vampire pill.
I can see that Ferrone would be good at narrating certain types of books, but romance doesn't seem to be one of those.
There have been a few other 'fill-in' narrators in this series and I've enjoyed most of them far more.
Due to this, I often wonder if I find myself rolling my eyes at some attempts at humor because I am iffy on the narrator's delivery or because Feehan isn't particularly funny.
I know I use YMMV A LOT, but it is very true when you're dealing with something as subjective as the enjoyment of a book, humor, and even opinions on a narrator.
1. Dark, handsome Carpathian male on the verge of turning into a vampire suddenly finds his lifemate in a human or part-human woman2.
Human or part-human female hell bent on being resisitant to said Carpathian and his "dominate" ways DESPITE the fact that her panties get in a twist everytime she looks at him3.
Final battle scene with a Master vampire, always more powerful than the lastThis book gets a little more into the whole "mage" thing, which was cool, but the formula was still the same.
The fight scenes were much bloodier and more brutal than previous, almost war-like.
Natalya Shonski is a vampire hunter, descended from a revered line of Carpathians known as the Dragonseekers and the most powerful mage in history.
But Natalya is unlike any other Carpathian he has ever known - dangerous in her own right, she refuses to let him fight her battles, and she infuriates him with her cheerful disregard of his demands.
But a sinister, mysterious power is after Natalya, and Virkirnoff has to convince her not only to trust him with her heart, but with her life as well.This book had much more action to it which made it much more enjoyable.
Terrible cliche romance-novel characters (oh, she's such a STRONG-WILLED FIGHTING WOMAN WHO CAN'T BE TAMED, oh, he's such a MANLY MAN, THE "STRONG SILENT" TYPE) and so mary-sue it was untrue (oh, she's only amazing at fighting and spells, she's only super intelligent and beautiful and also can just happen to turn into a tiger, huh?).
I gathered that they're some kind of pre-vampire vampire-hunters and unless they find themselves a lifemate they turn into vampires themselves.
Hence, the plot of the novel is mainly soulbonding the two main characters together and then a few evil vampire/mage fights and then a lot of horrificly bad sex scenes.
A great book on its own, but I also feel this is an instrumental book to the whole series as the power and purpose of Xavier and mages start to be known. It also introduces the reader to the Dragonseeker lineage in more detail and I am loving the storyline! Both main characters in this book are charismatic, strong and crazy talented. Fun book and love how it finished their story but not the mage or dragonseeker story line!
Definitely my favorite Carpathian novel so far!
I loved Vikirnoff...I found him oddly sweet.
I liked that he understood Natalya's need to fight and accepted her for who she was.
Other Carpathians have not been so understanding.
I enjoyed seeing more of Dominic and can't wait to get to his book.
Looking ahead and seeing that Razvan has his own book, I guess I can assume he's not evil or dead.
I would like to know his story.It's been a long break for me since I read my last Carpathian book, and I'm glad I picked back up with this one.
#16 in Carpathian series and for some reason, Ms. Feehan does not include this in her Leopard Series, but this is both a Carpathian and Leopard Series book. Natalya is one of the Leopard People. Vik (is the Carpathian). It was a good read!In the back of this book:Appendix 1 (Carpathian Healing Chants)Appendix 2 (Carpathian Language)Huh! I'm sure someone thought that was necessary ;-)
I had almost given up on this series. I was hoping that this book would restore my faith in the series and it delivered. I was pleased with both of the main characters and the storyline was fresh in comparison to the others. I now look forward to reading the next in the series, after a short break.
This book was a reread for me, because this book is absolutely amazing.
Waaaaaaaaaaay better than the previous book in the series.
