https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170651.A_Stranger_Is_Watching
Eventually bad luck, plus some hard work on behalf of those people on the angels' side, literally catch up with him.I think that the author will never kill a main character, unless the latter has died in the past, viewed via flashbacks.
The blow of death is softened, because the death happened to someone who isn't as known by the readers as the living characters in the present.Formulaic though the structure of the book is, it's a winning formula.
I need the simple sustenance, and I am certain that I will not ditch most of her books.
I like Clark's books, so far.
بل أشد، تملك موهبة رائعة، أجاثا رواياتها رتيبة، قليلة الشخصيات، إلا من إثنتين أو ثلاث كمحور الأحداث، أما مارك كلارك فتنتقل من مشهد إلى آخر كأحداث فيلم سينمائي مثير، لا تُنهي مشهد دون أن يحتوي على الإثارة في آخر سطوره.
رون، شاب متهور وبدأ في العودة لاتزانه، جريمة افتعلها بغير وعي جعلته المشتبه الوحيد في قتل نينا، يراقب القاتل الحقيقي محاولات إلغاء الصحفية شارون حكم الاعدام بالكرسي الكهربائي عن مراهق لم يبلغ سن الرشد، وتمسك ستيف بتحقيق العدالة راحة لزوجته المقتولة منذ عامين.يختطف القاتل الحقيقي، ابن نينا وحبيبة ستيف..
When I first read this, I started and then forgot to stop. What it lacks in some qualities it makes up for with the fact that there is no right place to take a break and put it down. I started it one school night and had to stay up until three to finish it. Don't tell my parents.
Mon premier Mary Higgins Clark et sûrement aussi mon premier policier. Je me souviens ne pas avoir réussi à le lâcher tant que j'avais pas lu le dernier mot. Une grande écrivaine à suspense!
Okay, so I needed a book to read....still can't get my hands on the book club book.........so I raided Zach's bookshelves. He likes Mary Higgins Clark and buys them at the .25 cent library sales. He said his teacher read this to them in 10th grade. I had never read any Mary Higgins Clark, as popular as she is. I was hooked! Very well-written and fun suspense story. And yes, I was able to fall asleep. I was worried about that since all of my reading time is usually at night.....as a result I often avoid scary books!
يا رباااااااااااااااااااااااهكمية تشويق وإثارة كبيرة للغايةماري هيغينز كلارك اصبحتي من الكتاب المفضليين بالنسبة ليرواية مشوقة واحداث متسارعة تجبرك على الاستمرار في القراءة اسلوب الكاتبة في الانتقال بالمشاهد وكأنك تتباع فيلم هوليوودي تستحق الخمس نجمات
This book follows the story of a man named Steve as well as his son Neil and Steve's girlfriend Sharon.
One day when Sharon is watching Neil alone, a mysterious man only calling himself "Foxy" kidnaps them both.
From then on, the story follows individual characters ranging from Steve to Sharon and even Foxy himself as Steve tries to save his girlfriend and his son.
This is a suspense thriller that keeps you on the edge of your seat waiting to see what happens next.What I think is most interesting about this book is the way it gives more than one viewpoint to the situation.
Mary Higgins Clark pretty much never disappoints.
I was actually surprised to find that this was originally published in 1977.
It was only when I found myself asking why the characters were using payphones rather than cell phones that I looked up the publication date.
A good, fast-paced mystery.
I picked it up off my shelves of books I pick up at thrift stores for $0.25-$0.50 while trying to decide what to read next, knowing it would only take me a day or two to finish.
It was an engrossing story that kept me on the edge of my seat.A masterpiece of literature it isn't, but a damn good read it is.
المرة الأولى التي أقرأ فيها رواية للكاتبة الأمريكية ماري هيجنز كلارك ..اعتدت على كتابات أجاثا كريستي البوليسية وهي البارعة في هذا المجال ..الرواية لم تعجبني كثيرا .. فهي ضعيفة من وجهة نظري وايضا مكتوبة وكأنها فيلم ..فنحن نقفز بين " اللقطات " أقصد الأحداث ..وهي طريقة صعبة المجاراة ..المهم انها تتحدث عن قضية إعدام شاب ..ليتبين عبر الرواية انه بريء ..مع وجود قاتل متسلسل وقنبلة وقضية اختطاف .قصة اعتيادية في الكثير من الأفلام الأمريكية .
A minha estreia com MHC, em versão bolso. Muito bom
Het boek speelt het zich af in een tijd, dat er nog geen mobieltjes zijn. Maar dat doet niets af aan het verhaal. Het leest heerlijk weg. De spanning blijft er voortdurend in.
I thought it was pretty good and a bit predictable but Clark doesn't give much background on the bad guy.
Several near misses and coincidences move the predictable plot ( as i said before) along as well.
There was some suspense in the tale.
However, Clark's cookie-cutter writing formula all but guaranteed her trademark ending.
A handful of sympathy cards are played as Clark weaves this tale.
At the same time we're supposed to believe good Ronald Thompson would be put to death so swiftly for a crime he committed when he was 17.
It has to be that way so or Clark's story won't work.
I liked the overall concept of this book, but some parts of the way it was executed caused me to feel a bit disappointed.
I have read books by Clark in the past that I loved, so I was taken aback when I found this book to be different than expected and overall disappointing.
The time frame got a little confusing when going back and forth between the different characters.
And there were even times where I became confused about who was speaking.
Granted, these are small aspects of the story, but they made a great impact on how I received the book, and overall caused me to be disappointed.
A Stranger is WatchingI have to admit that this is the first book I have ever read a book by this famous author.
I love mysteries so I don't know how I have missed such a classic writer.
I am only reading it because it was left in a holiday apartment I am renting.I could not put this book down.
It is fast paced, you feel empathy for all the characters as Clark, brings them all to life with their tales from the past and heart wrenching stories.
Clark is now on my radar and I look forward to reading more of her books.
This book was quite good. Alexandra's 3 year old son was kidnapped two years ago which ended in the destruction of her marriage because her husband blamed her for the kidnapping because of the young babysitter she hired. This book has a lot of twists and turns and some good mystery and a surprising ending. I enjoyed it.
Hee, hee, it was fun seeing the pricing in this book from 1977. The sentence said, "he had paid $140 (at which point I'm thinking, Wow, only $140 a night for a hotel in NYC) for THREE nights at the Biltmore Hotel across from Grand Central Station." Other than prices giving away the book's year of publication this was classic Mary Higgins Clark suspense.
Ok, that's a great book, alright. But I "only" give 4 stars because of the stereotypes in this book: to quote only 1 of them: in Grand Central Station,the description. The women run to go home to prepare dinner and are anxious to be late, and the business men going home earlier because of (something). I'm sorry but morally I can't give 5 stars, don't resent me.
Spannend!
My all-time favorite of her books.
Excelente, la pluma de esta escritora es magnifica, una trama con suspenso hasta el final.El tema de la pena de muerte deja mucho que pensar.Me ha gustado mucho.
Just like every book I read of this majestic author, It was literally unputdownable.
I know I want to read some good ol' MHClark book so I just blindly picked what book to read, and it's A Stranger is Watching!This story started with the culprit's POV, as usual, no name dropping and that's when the guessing game started.
What I always love about MHC's stories is that we got to act like a real detective and gather all the information so we could guess who's the bad guy is, and this story didn't disappoint at all.The story revolves around Steve Peterson.
Not so much a whodunit as a will they find them in time.The kidnapper/killer is introduced early on, not by name, but we honestly have no hope of learning who it is until late in the story.There's a good undercurrent story here of a woman struggling to win over her new boyfriend's son.
It's touching how they attempt to bond and survive.Lally, the woman who lives in the train station, is unnecessary to me.
She honestly brings nothing to the story, she does nothing to help or hinder anyone.
The deaf guy, Clark needs to bring him back.
I was in awe of her ability to tell the story from each individual character's viewpoint, and do not regret picking up this short read.Steve Peterson lost his wife to a brutal murder, and Ronald Thompson is awaiting execution on death row for her murder.
His hopes are soon dashed yet again as he discovers Sharon, his new love is missing along with his son Neil.
As Steve fights to find Sharon and Neil, time is running out for Ronald, and now there is doubt as to his guilt as pieces that went missing in his trial now become evident.

Plot is MHC signature: different characters and slowly building up the story till everything comes together for the ending.
Steve is a widower with a son.
His wife was killed at home which the son witnessed and where an innocent young man was jailed and about to be executed for the murder.
Fast forward to two years when the execution is about to happen, Sharon, the one he has his eye on had been kidnapped along with Neil, his son.
The events leading to the end of the story are all fast and a bit nerve-wracking but...
I find that Mary Higgins Clark has changed her way of writing, nowadays it looks like detective novels but back then it was a psychological thriller.
I remember reading it when i was young and being scared.
Today i m not as scared but i actually couldn’t close the book before i knew what would happen in this end.
I finished this book in 3 days...
I finished this book in 3 days...
and read most of it tonight.
It’s not the best book to read before bed as i couldn’t drop it and now it’s 4am.
It is anyway a must read.
I really enjoyed this plot. Loved how it focused in detail on one central plot and really dove into the characters development. Written in the 1970s I don't know if that helped with the depth of writing, it felt fully plotted and not rushed like most books nowadays.Superb thrilling plot and was deliciously unravelled so at times you really didn't know whether they'd discover Nina's real murderer in time. Brilliant book, thoroughly enjoyable
I didn't go into this book with any expectation and so I was pleasently surprised. A good thriller with interessting characters. Although, I have to say, there is only so much, that you can do on such few pages. So no imense charcter building or shooking plott-twists can be expected. But if you like you're average thriller, this is one of the good ones.
My first Mary Higgins Clark book. My Aunt gave us a bunch of them, and so I decided that I had to at least read one. It was suspenseful, and I can see why some women stay up all night reading these kind of books. I don't think that they are my cup of tea. The story-line may have been good, but there is not much else there in a literary sense. Kind of one of those quick read trash novels.
