https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77589.River_of_Earth
I got this book through my library after reading about it in Lee Smith's memoir, "Dimestore".
She grew up in the coal mining community of Grundy, VA, and loved this book for it's depiction of the people and their language.
After reading it, so do I.A warning to anyone who needs a linear story and involved plot....this is not your book.
The dialect of these mountain people of Kentucky reads like poetry, and their love of the land and their family shines on every page.
I felt the earth flowing, steady as time.There is also the conviction that whatever happens, however difficult or unjust, life continues.
A locust post was driv on the spot, and I hear it tuck root.That tree is a reminder of the spot of a death, but it is also a reminder that life, and family, continue.
The locust tree itself rises from a post, unintentional and improbable, but determined and strong.There is a thread of humor that runs through the novel as well that offsets the bleak conditions and reinforces the idea that even though the life is hard, the people are not necessarily unhappy.
REREADThis is the back story to James Still’s River of Earth (published in 1940):Harry Caudill wrote in Night Comes to the Cumberlands, his history of the Cumberland Plateau in eastern Kentucky, that southern Appalachia had been an independent and relatively self-sufficient agricultural society during most of its history.
Some farmers sold their land in order to move to the coal camps and become miners; others simply abandoned their farms in order to do the same; while others lost their land due to the unscrupulous practices of mine operators.The iron and steel industry boomed in the United States during the 1920s, which in turn increased the demand for coal as a key ingredient in the production of both metals.
Written the same year as The Grapes Of Wrath ( 1940) and easily drawing comparisons, this is a lyrical "slice of life" story simply told by a young boy whose parents earnestly struggle to make ends meet while farming and coal mining in the Appalachians. Harkening back to a time when a full dinner plate for your child meant plenty and a bare tree branch decorated in eggshells became a treasure, this was a good December read as a personal reminder to simplify holiday expenditures and enjoy more charitable giving. 12/18 Read for On The Southern Literary Trail club.
Full review to follow.
In James Still’s 1940 novel River of Earth, which takes place in Kentucky, we are offered not only a fascinating coming-of-age story with a striking setting, but references and historical first-hand knowledge of how life played out in the mountains and coal-camps of the region.The main character’s father, Brack, is presented as a hard-working man, though he puts his own pride in helping kin-folk above of tending to his wife’s and children’s needs first.
He works as a coal-miner, a mountaineer, a homesteader, and a farmer as opportunity arises, and in this, Still is cleverly able to show us many aspects of different Appalachian occupations while using only one character and one family.The view of coal-mining is fascinating and accurate to my knowledge.
A beautiful, beautiful book. Written in 1940, it's a gem of Appalachian literature. Reminds me a lot of The Grapes of Wrath. In the 1920s, Appalachian farmers who were completely self-sufficient became enamoured of the quick and plentiful wages of coal miners. This was all well and good until the demand for coal decreased. "The result was a landless, jobless, hungry, perplexed people", says Dean Cadle in the forward. James Still writes about one family in this predicament. His writing is so lovely and artful. Thank you to Lee Smith for recommending this book to all and sundry.
I read this book several years ago. As I remember it, the plot is weak but it is a book of great lyric beauty. I do not think it would appeal to everyone but those who love Appalachia will appreciate it.
I'd like to see the English teachers of Upstate, SC put this one in the curriculum. This story, set in the coal mining region of eastern Kentucky during the depression, is more relevant to our area in that time period (i.e. a life shuffle between the cotton mill villages and the farms) than The Grapes of Wrath which they cram down your throat. Honestly, it's one of the most beautifully written stories I've read, an interesting and accurate rendering of the people and circumstances.
This book is beautifully written. The two rivers of earth are the garden soil and the coal seams. The lad who tells the tale is endearing in every way. He is full of quirks, afraid of birth and blood and yet brave when it comes to some dire exigency. He loves his grandma's stories and his crazy uncle's antics. Grandma turns out to be more complex than any of the characters. There is a dynamic tension between the father's yen to go down in the mines and the mother's love of the land.
Although I've lived plenty of my years in the mountains, I'm not from them. Southern Appalachia, yes, but my folks lived mostly in the valleys, not in the hills. Mountaineers were (and still are) a different breed. I've read several novels lately set in these mountains. Harsh. Rough. Unforgiving. Living without hope is a hard way to live. I'm glad writers record these lives, but I've read enough of them now to last me a spell.
We're going to Kentucky on a mission trip later this month, so I thought it would be appropriate to read this classic of Appalachian literature. Written in 1940, Still uses mountain dialect (it's like reading the language of furreners) but it is achingly beautiful, sometimes. Mining vs. subsistence farming and written from a child's view of the adult world. Lovely, poignant, sad...
And she doesn’t complain about the family’s state of poverty, not even when there is so little food that she pretends to eat while the children have their supper so that they won’t realize she is making a single mouthful last an entire meal.
Father says he won’t turn his kin out; Mother says the children are too thin and hungry, and couldn’t his kin do a lick of work for once?At one point Grandma needs help, but Mother can’t go to her, because the baby is ill.
James Still’s language is so beautiful, and paints a vivid picture of life in the hills of Kentucky during the early decades of the twentieth century.
I did like the book and parts of the writing were spare and beautiful, like the description of the simple act of lighting an oil lamp in the mountain cabin: "The flame ate slowly around the cold wick.
The tension of the novel comes between his father's chosen path as a coal miner, following the camps that offer mostly below subsistence level work, and his mother's love of the farmland in the mountains and simple desire to stay put in one place and raise enough food to feed her family.
A beautiful companion to Grapes of Wrath and a darker version of the first third of To Kill a Mockingbird, River of Earth is spellbinding--if you don't mind a slice of life, episodic novel rather than a linear plot.
Grapes of Wrath is a stark modernist look at a family on the move in the west during the Great Depression; River of Earth focuses on a family who stays in one spot.
Every chapter seems to end with tragedy or violence, and yet River of Earth never takes on the depressed modernist mindset of "something is wrong here"--because these people never expected life to be any different from what they got.
The introduction to this says it came out about the same time as "Grapes of Wrath" and is the only other Depression book to have held up over time. This one has no particular political agenda, though, being told by a seven-year-old boy whose coal miner father keeps moving his family around. Yes, they're poor, but the subsistence farmers are also poor, and poverty is nothing new in the Appalachians. I was reminded of the families in "Christy" (and of my own ancestors.) It's beautifully written, and full of characters "cutting a rusty," and of love and pain.
One of the most descriptive books I have ever read from the view point of a boy living between the coal mines of the mountains and the farm home in the hills.
You can picture the home lived in from the revelations of the writer as he paints a portrait with his work.
The title of the book comes to life in the river of words opening up your mind to a hard life lived by many of that period.
It was so well written the novel is recalled in my mind almost like a movie in that I can picture the whole work as if it had been watched, not read.
I came back to River of Earth this month and enjoyed it just as much this time as I have the many times I have previously read it. Still's command of language and writing truly captures the contrasts that sustain our beautiful Appalachian Mountains and the people who have called them home. He tells a story of family trials and triumphs that it well-known among my family and friends. I highly recommend this novel and will, most likely, revisit it again.
I feel like this book is better than 3 stars, but I didn't like it more than 3 stars. It does a really great job of taking you to early 20th century Appalachia- the language that the book is written in is really interesting and impressive. If you need something to put your modern day winter blues into perspective, this is the book for you- at least I can eat to my heart's content when it's cold and the days are short.
Like all stories about children living in dire poverty, this was hard to read. Don't look for interesting plot twists or happy endings here; its purpose is simply to describe the plight of hardscrabble Appalachian farmers & miners during the Great Depression. The beautiful writing and the mother's deep love of the land was what kept me going. Not for the faint-hearted, this one.
Little vignettes of a family living off various coal mines in Kentucky. The endless but quiet lamentation of the mother who wants a better life for her children. But this comes through in a dialect completely foreign to me. Some of the sentences are filled with nouns I can't define, but which sound lovely anyway, as the author is a poet as well.
Where’s the spot for 10 stars! Wonderful book.
Beautifully written I enjoyed this book. The author tells the stark tale of struggling Kentucky families bluntly in the most beautiful way.
Wow. Poetic prose and real characters. Every word is necessary.
A river of earth, the mountains the waves, and the transient industry that is coal mining encapsulate some descriptors in this Kentucky novel of coal mining communities being hit by the depression.
Coal mines laid off workers, and progressively shut down operations to 5 days a week, 4, 3, eventually closing altogether, and struggling to reopen at the soonest blip of coal demand.River of Earth is a well-crafted narrative of family, poverty, hardwork from the perspective of a little boy during depression-era Kentucky.
The novel goes through rural areas of failing agriculture, to the dwindling coal camps telling primarily a story of hard work, grief, and perserverence.As a historical fiction written in 1940, it was very authentic.
This is a truly beautiful book...so perfect in its expression of the Depression years.
It does not moralize, but instead tells the life of a struggling Kentucky family through the eyes of one son.
Their life flows along the River of Earth with pain, disappointment, joy and daily sharing...always with hope that their days will be filled with plenty and not with want.
Published within a year of The Grapes of Wrath, this stands beside that great work as one of few great American novels about the struggles of a family in the 1920s.
I wanted to like it more. The story seemed to go nowhere, just rambled about. I skimmed through a lot of it.I did enjoy reading the colorful Appalachian dialect that reminds me of my grandparents and other people that I knew as a child. It’s a way of speaking that is gone now, and I miss hearing it.
Still a classic of Appalachian literature. But for me, it pales in comparison with Harriette Simpson Arnow's novels. It reminded me of a regional Little House on the Prairie to Arnow's regional The Jungle or Moby Dick. Still moving and colorful, but not profound.
Read for Meredith class
