https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280366.Jar_City
First published in 2000 in Iceland under the title Mýrin, I read and thoroughly enjoyed the English translation by Bernard Scudder published in 2005 by Minotaur Books.A compelling police procedural that shows a law enforcement task force in Reykjavik investigating a murder, Indridason goes further and provides intriguing background for a crime that has a long history of wrongs leading up to the fateful moment.Some crimes, when brought into the light, reveal other wrongdoings hidden in the shadows.
This book is an interesting study of old crimes that generate new crimes through genealogy.
Reykjavik Police Inspector Erlendur is called to the scene of a murder of an old man, Holberg.
He discovers that the man was accused of rape back in 1962 and that there was a child.Erlendur follows the investigation while at the same time dealing with his drug addict daughter.
He is divorced from his wife and tries to help her on his own.I enjoyed reading this book and give it 4 out of 5 stars.
My wife and I visited Iceland last summer for 11 days.
رواية تمزج بين الادب البوليسي والرعب.. يصور الكاتب جريمة تقع في إحدى المدن الآيسلندية حيث تعثر الشرطة على جثة رجل ستيني داخل شقته ويقوم المحقق أرنالدور بتحريات واسعة وبمكر وعبقرية (وشئ من الحظ) بكشف خيوط الجريمة والعثور على القاتل.. ينقلك الراوي الى مجتمع غريب وجريمة غير مألوفة .. رواية مشوقة جداً تتمنى ان تنهيها في جلسة واحدة..
Seeing there are a few Icelandic authors in translation - or maybe they are indeed just a few - I wanted to explore this country through the detective novels of Arnaldur Indriðason, as well.
This baffled me, so I've read more about it and came upon an interesting BBC article: an US law student went to Iceland to study the reason behind the low criminality rate.
It looks like Icelandic people managed to put in practice the teachings of Prophet Mani.A study of the Icelandic class system done by a University of Missouri master's student found only 1.1% of participants identified themselves as upper class, while 1.5% saw themselves as lower class.
But as Inspector Erlendur Sveinsson of the Reykjavik Criminal Investigations Division starts to poke into the past history of the deceased, the case gets darker and darker, with unsavory ramifications going back decades and with revelations about Holberg (the victim) that makes one wonder why didn't somebody put an end to his miserable life much sooner.Nordic crime fiction is already famous for its dark undertones and its dour policemen, but this novel is in a class of its own when it comes to depression.
As Jar City begins, a seventy-year-old man is found dead in his musty, malodorous flat, obviously the victim of foul play.
Reykjavik police Inspector Erlendur and colleague Sigurdur Óli find a strange note on the body.
He follows his instincts.Now fifty years old, divorced, and father of a grown son, with whom he has virtually no contact, and a daughter Eva Lind, who constantly shows up to ask for money, which she owes her drug dealers.
We don’t learn that until at least half way into the book.In addition, he constantly confronts issues of parenthood and familial relationships during his work on this case.
"- (...). Oamenii dispar, vor să dispară, își planifică singuri dispariția." "- (...). Nimeni nu e suficient de puternic. Repulsia te bântuie ca un spirit rău care își face adăpost în mintea ta până ce crezi că mizeria e viața însăși și pentru că ai uitat cât de obișnuit trăiesc oamenii."
The author is, of course, a journalist and so the possessor of writerly skills; still, a novel is something wholly and entirely other than what he could be expected to do in his sleep.I think the first-novel-ishness comes out in a few small ways.
I see that the author carefully crafted his story to elicit these feelings in me, and I salute his success.
I am aware that the story was, for 2000, quite ground-breaking in its use of genetics as a plot-point, but it doesn't feel as amazing today, when "Scientific Adam" and "Scientific Eve" have been genetically identified.
This is my first Arnaldur Indrioason novel featuring Inspector Erlendur, the wearyIcelandic detective who must solve a murder that spans several decades. The novel also won the "Glass Key Award" given annually to Nordic crime writers. I was impressed by the good writing and compelling plot and now want to read the series. Recommend to crime fiction readers.
This was a great Scandi- Crime Noir book that I've read for my Scandi Noir "real life" book club.
I had never read this author before so dived in with a clear set of expectations.I was quickly hooked into the storyline and characters.
I found the book translated very well from Icelandic to English and this author has a rhythmic writing style that's easy to read and enjoy as you go.
It's book three in the series but I didn't once feel like I needed to read the first two books to enjoy this one.
But the note makes no sense in that context and Erlendur continues to look for another explanation.He discovers that over forty years earlier, Holberg had been accused of a particularly viscious rape but had not been convicted of the crime.
Erlendur begins unravelling the tangled history of the victim's early life in the hope that it will shed some light on the mystery surrounding his death.
It's hard to imagine a crime fiction reader who won't put this book down anxiously awaiting the arrival of the second Erlendur case.
المتابع لأدب (الجريمه) من المؤكد انه سيلاحظ تطور ملموس بشدة .من دويل لأجاثا كريستى الى الطفرة الرهيب
Having very recently read Reykjavík Nights: Murder in Reykjavík, which was a prequel that I really enjoyed, I was really looking forward to this book, which is the first in the series proper.
The parts of the book which involve the relationship between Erlendur and his daughter are really well done as well, and should get even more interesting as the series progresses.It was fascinating to me to read a book set in Iceland, as I knew almost nothing about it.
Arnaldur Indriðason, a very famous author of Iceland, has spun a mind-blowing thriller story, Jar City, which has sold over 6 million copies in the world and has been translated in more than 20langugaes.
When human organs preserved with formalin inside a jar and kept in a room, then it called 'Jar City', used specifically for the medical training purpose in Iceland.The story is well told by the author from his protagonist Inspector Erlendur, who is not only a lonely soul fighting with his own ghosts from the past, but is also brave, intelligent and very determined to get to the bottom of the mystery.
We are introduced to Erlendur, a cop who has his own idiosyncrasies and his own way of working a crime scene.
I found myself being drawn to his character as the book progressed, he is a man who I feel is quite complex even though he may not appear so.
Erlendur has a drug addicted and pregnant daughter and it kills him to see her live her life this way, he is like any parent in this situation, tormented but lets her stay with him when she wants.He is involved in the murder of an old man in his home and this begins quite an extraordinary story that is fast paced, full of intrigue and a great plot.
مؤلمة!!"الأطفال فلاسفة ، سألتني ابنتي مرة في المستشفى لماذا لدينا عينان؟ أجبتها حتى نرى بهما، صححت لي قالت "حتى نذرف الدموع منهما"تختلف القصص المأساوية ولكن يجمعها الألم نفسه.. لأول مرة اتعاطف مع القاتل عند قراءتي لرواية بوليسية ربما لأنه مجرم وضحية في آن واحد.رواية جميلة لأرنالدور أندريداسون ولكن روايته "جثة في الفندق" راقت لي اكثر
Clearly, there are more books following this first novel that feature Erlendur, but this kind of thing irks me.
You think you can put on armour against it over the years and can watch all the filth from a distance as if it's none of your business, and try to keep your senses.
The repulsion haunts you like an evil spirit that burrows into your mind and doesn't leave you in peace until you believe that the filth is life itself because you've forgotten how ordinary people live.
Γενετική και τη Βιολογική Ψυχολογία.Ολοκληρώνοντας να αναφέρω ότι το 2ο μέρος του βιβλίου είναι δυνατότερο όχι μόνο στο κομμάτι της δράσης, αλλά καί στη ψυχογραφική ανάλυση των ηρώων, οι οποίοι με τη συμπεριφορά τους και τις πράξεις τους στο παρελθόν έχουν επηρρεάσει και έχουν βάλει τη σφραγίδα τους στα μελλοντικά γεγονότα.Βαθμολογία: 4,5/5 ή 9/10.

رغم الكآبة التي سيطرت على خط الأحداث، إلا أن الرواية مشوقة وتلمس المشاعر الإنسانية بقوة في بعض أقسامها
Icelandic Inspector Erlendur is leading the team investigating the murder of Holberg, an old man.
The photo leads Erlendur to some unconvicted crimes by Holberg years ago.
You think you can put on armour against it over the years and can watch all the filth from a distance as if it's none of your business, and try to keep your senses.
The repulsion haunts you like an evil spirit that burrows into your mind and doen't leave you in peace until you believe that the filth is life itself because you've forgotten how ordinary people live."This book was more than just a murder mystery.
الرواية الثالثة التي أقرأؤها لـ الكاتب الايسلندي ..
أرنالدور أندريداسون .وكالعادة كانت مميزة جدا ..وإن اختلفت عن باقي رواياته ..فـ في هذه الرواية تركيز كبير على العلوم الجنائية والأمراض الوراثية وإسهاب بمعلومات أصبح الكثيرون يعرفونها الآن ..والفضل يعود لمسلسلات الـ CSI..
تعامل الشرطة معها..وأيضاُ قضايا أخلاقية مثل انتزاع أعضاء من الموتى بدون موافقتهم المسبقة أو موافقة أقربائهم ..أو اجازة الدول لصناديق المورثات الوطنية ..حيث تحفظ المعلومات الوراثية للأشخاص..وتشكل قاعدة بيانات وطنية..الرواية جيدة وأحداثها سريعة ..وصادمة أحيانا ..تحمل الكثير من الأفكار الغير مسبوقة ..ألرواية ستعجب كل من يهتم بعلم الجرائم ..ويحب الروايا ت البوليسية ..
A very serviceable mystery set in Iceland (my first in that setting) and therefore featuring laconic detectives, much darkness (literal and figurative), and a seemingly huge cast of borderline depressive characters.
Some of this depression may be laid at the feet of circumstance, some a part of the specific mysteries at the core of the story.
Ultimately this is a story that possibly could only happen in Iceland.As for my complaints, they are really stylistic and I am now very curious to read more Scandinavian mysteries to see how they rate for me.3.5
Bleak landscape, bleak characters, bleak story.
Icelandic murders are simple ones usually insists Inspector Erlendur.
This one is certainly not.
An elderly man, Holberg, is found dead in his apartment with a strange note left on the body.
Not to mention Erlendur’s daughter, a drug addict trying to break the habit and who is pregnant.
And Erlendur is afraid to go to the doctor for his chest pains.Not to mention it rains all the time.
But a well-written, good story.
روايةمميزة جدا،يستخدم فيها الكاتب تقنية فريدة تضيف الكثير إلى الأدب البوليسي المترجم إلى العربية أو المكتوب بها،حيث إن الكاتب ينطلق من جريمة قتل إلى العديد والعديد من التفاصيل الصغيرة والمنعطفات الهامة، وهذا وصولا إلىجرائم أخرى ارتكبها أكثر من مجرم،مع تسليط الضوء على الجوانب الإنسانية والعواطف البشرية التي تبرز من خلال مسارات الرواية وأحداثها، وإن كان لابد من وصف مختصر لهذه الرواية فهي من قبيل السهل الممتنع.
Yeah, it had a very similar feel to other Nordic thrillers. But, damn. That last 20%! You pretty well knew where the plot was going, but it was the characterization that left you balled in knots til the very end. Suspense barely covers it. Heart-attack-inducing might be more appropriate.
اول قراءة لـ الكاتب الايسلندي أرنالدور أندريداسون ومفتشه إلندور واعتقد ان رواية مخزن الاعضاء البشرية كانت بوليسية تشويقية وبداية جيدة ان الواحد يقرأ تاني للكاتب ولعم المفتش إلندور
Μεσόκοπος, με μια διαλυμένη οικογένεια, προσωπικά προβλήματα με τα παιδιά του και με ένα πνεύμα που δεν έχει ξεχάσει την έννοια του καθήκοντος ενός αστυνομικού αλλά ταυτόχρονα ώρες ώρες μοιάζει παραιτημένο, ο ιδιαίτερος αυτός επιθεωρητής καλείται να εξιχνιάσει μυστηριώδεις υποθέσεις.
Οι περιγραφές είναι έντονα συναισθηματικές και μπορεί έως και να σοκάρουν, όμως αποδίδονται με τον μέγιστο σεβασμό και την ανάλογη προσοχή προς τα θύματα ενός άρρωστου μυαλού, του μυαλού ενός βιαστή.Γενικότερα το κλίμα του βιβλίου ταιριάζει με αυτό της χώρας και των κατοίκων της.
Για μια χώρα που καλύπτεται από ηφαιστειακή τέφρα σε μεγάλο μέρος της, αραιοκατοικημένη, με το μεγαλύτερο ποσοστό των κατοίκων της συγκεντρωμένο στην πρωτεύουσα Ρέικιαβικ.
Αυτό το πήρα όχι για μ' άρεσε ο τίτλος, ή η υπόθεση, ή ξέρω τον συγγραφέα, αλλά γιατί πέρσι (και το συνεχίζω ακόμη) ξεκίνησα να διαβάζω βιβλία απ' όλον τον κόσμο.Από Ισλανδία ήθελα να διαβάσω τον νομπελίστα Halldór Laxness αλλά βρήκα σε τιμή προσφοράς τη Φορμόλη του Arnaldur Indriðason, το οποίο έτυχε να είναι αστυνομικό βιβλίο.Ένυγουεη...
Πολύ νουάρ, πολλή και η βροχή, το κρύο, και η απουσία του ήλιου.Αυτό το βιβλίο δεν είναι μόνο ένα αστυνομικό θρίλερ, αλλά και μια κοινωνική κριτικής της σύγχρονης Ισλανδίας.
Έχει γίνει και ταινία στα (Ισλανδικά) και δεν την βρήκα πουθενά να την δω, μόνο το τρέιλερ .Συνολικά σαν βιβλίο μου άρεσε και του βάζω 4.
JAR CITY is the first book by Arnaldur Indridason that I have read.
I have a theory that quality of mystery books depends on a number of factors: the characterization of the protagonist/detective, the interesting features of the sidekicks, the compelling nature of the setting and the intricacy of the puzzle/mystery.
Here the strongest aspect of JAR CITY is the puzzle.
One would think that the setting (Reykjavik) would be compelling but in the end the homogeneous and exotic nature of the setting is not as interesting as I would have expected.
