https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/274043.Software
and other things."This combination of human and robot fused into one – a prime philosophic enigma addressed squarely in Rudy Rucker’s Software.
Ralph Numbers, a forward-thinking bopper (boppers are robots with real brains created some years prior by the novel’s main character, old man Cobb Anderson) says phooey to such inferior human twaddle: “Humans first and robots last?
Reading Rudy Rucker's turbo-injected spinning at the speed of light fiction, I wouldn’t be surprised.
Born in 1946, Rudy Rucker is not only an American science fiction author and among the founders of cyberpunk but also an expert in advanced mathematics and computer science.
It's more of a 60's stoner movie with crazy philosophizing robots behaving like zombies for people's meat brains for the stuff we hold in 'em, with weird homages to the traditional "human" lifestyle that's more epic comedy than a serious piece of love.
:)The mark of a good book is sometimes all about how much fun we have; not focusing on silly things like plot.
Dick Award and book two in the series won the award years later.
Not that I put all of my stock in awards but whatever will encourage people to read this book I will mention.Part of me badly wants to rate this book 5 stars but there were a few things that bothered me enough for a final 4 1/2 star rating.
Past these issues, I loved the book.
I liked the two main characters, Cobb and Sta-Hi (surprisingly enough) and I really loved the ending.
More than a few distressing things happened to the characters.
I have read few science fiction books that explored what it is to be human so well as this book does by exploring artificial intelligence.
"El alma es el software, ¿sabes?
El software es lo que cuenta, las costumbres y los recuerdos.
El cerebro y el cuerpo son simple carne, semillas para los tanques de órganos."Estos robots no son como los de Asimov, claro que no.
¡Al diablo Asimov y sus malditas leyes!
¿Obedecer a los humanos?
Si lo comparo con Carbono modificado, por ejemplo, no le encuentro mucho de cyberpunk.
La sociedad no es tan "low life" como cabría esperar.
Es un libro de robots que ganó el premio Philip K.
Dick allá por el 82.
Todavía estoy masticando la posibilidad de continuar con los demás libros.
Re-read of this cyberpunk classic, I read it long before joining goodreads. Great story about sentient robots, old age, transmigration of the soul. All SF fans should give this try, especially if you enjoyed William Gibson's "Neuromancer" or Neal Stephenson's "Snow Crash".
Kind of dated, but fun the way I like SF to be. Biggest issue was that all the female characters were brainless bimbos.
So while I've read a lot of cyberpunk, and have a fondness for it as a genre, it's a patchwork sort of fondness, which is why I'd never heard of this until recently, despite it's role as a primum movens within cyberpunk literature (something that William Gibson talks about in the introduction of the edition I read).Like a lot of science fiction, the philosophical angle to this one is as important to the plot - robot builder Cobb Anderson goes to Mars, has his body broken down, and gets reborn inside a robot shell.
Which sounds straightforward, but Rucker also throws in a lot of questions about identity and self in with that - does the robot Cobb still have an essential "Cobbness" to him, even though there's no physical continuation between the two?
There was one particularly hilarious scene when Cobb figures out a sub routine that has been built into him as a robot - what he needs to do to feel drunk (since as a robot, alcoholic beverages don't affect him, nor does he actually require food or drink) and thus "enjoy" himself socially, at parties/dances and so forth.
This book is a fast, easy read - and for a trashy sci-fi novel from that pre-80s era, I suppose it's fun in a way.
But having recently aquired it's sequel (Wetware), I thought I'd better go back and read this again to refresh my memory.
Rucker again touches upon some of his favourite themes (the computatability of consciousness, the logical impossibility of a being designing a consciousness equal to one's own - Kurt Godel gets a cameo appearance!) but I thought they were handled in heavy handed, childish and superficial ways.
On one hand it seems like this was aimed at the youth market, particularly with characters like "Sta-Hi", but there was a lot of bad language and drug taking so it's not really the sort of thing you'd want your children to read.I've only rated it two stars but it's a high two stars.
it's weird to think of this as the beginning of cyberpunk because it's nothing at all like what i think of as cyberpunk.
this seems more like some underground 60s comic, lotsa zany action and stoned philosophizin', mr.
natural in space or something like that.
not that i don't like it-- this book is a lot of fun (and i can see why it won the first ever philip k.
it's just that (as with White Light, which i also just read), it has no emotional component.
like, at all.
though i imagine i will read the others someday.
Oh Rudy Rucker, what a wacky bastard. His 'ware trilogy and 'the hacker and the ants' are my favourites of his. It's been so long since I read this, but I still have such strong positive feelings when I see the cover that I had to give it 4 stars when Goodreads recommended it to me. It is supposed to be Biopunk, or some were genepunk genre, but really it is science fiction written by a goddamn hippy mathematician. Delightful!
Cobb Anderson tiene sesenta años, mala salud, bebe demasiado y un día fue responsable de dar la capacidad a los robots de tener inteligencia y tomar sus propias decisiones, por lo que encabezados por Ralph Números se revelaron y crearon su propia sociedad en la Luna.
Cuando su doble robótico se presenta para ofrecerle la inmortalidad viajando a nuestro satélite, conocerá mejor al hijo de su amigo Stan, un taxista traficante y adicto llamado que se hace llamar Sta-Hi y que le acompañará en su viaje a la Luna, donde la sociedad robótica no es nada plácida y tiene sus propios problemas.
I'm kinda shocked that I never read this one back in 87.
Cyber Punk always meant Gibbson to me and I never followed up with his contemporaries.The book is a little dated.
Gotta love the punk gargon and all the boomers retiring to Florida to have druken orgys before they shuffle off to oblivion.
Hold on that last one isn't so far fetched.It's refreshing to read about A.I. with a plausible explanation on how it cane about and with no pesky build in three laws.
The civil war between the machines was a nice touch as well.I'll have to read the sequels at some point.
This shit is the shit. Stuzzy! Can you wave with it?
For lovers of New Wave Science Fiction, Cyber-Punk, Post-Modernism, and Transrealism.
This novel was the fist to win the PKD award and that's how I came across it (being an a great admirer of PKD).
I am a musician and have been working with Transrealism in sound or ways to further the concept.
Little did I know that Rudy Rucker originally coined the term.
This is just a great discovery and I look forward to reading other books by this author.
The novel feels fresh and contemporary even in 2018.
This book is 'very tass'..'very tass indeed'...
A quick, entertaining read, and I liked some of the ideas for evolving AI rather than trying to build it from scratch. Pity about the racist Japanese “accent” one character uses for a while, though. What was acceptably humorous in the early 80s (well, if you weren’t Asian, at least) is cringeworthy now.
Really badly dated. Surely Rucker's Boppers weren't even believable in 1982.
Through me, one of the Little Kidders was saying how much they enjoyed the moment when they scooped out the speech center of their victim.Sta-hi escapes and, later, the kidnapping incident is mentioned to a bopper (AI/robot) who was completely dismissive of human moral concerns.
Instead, the fact that the brain was being uploaded made the act morally positive, because that person could now be merged into one of the Big Boppers and become closer to The One (bopper god).What struck me so much about that moment was that it was so logical and contrary to my visceral reactions to the content.
There was lack of consent, there was the inevitability that parts would be lost as the human's ingested brain-matter instead of the bopper.
Человечество прокляло бопперов и забыло об их существовании, не подозревая, что в недрах Дисков начатый Коббом эволюционный процесс продолжает свое неспешное и постепенное развитие.
Они предлагают старому ученому новое тело и вечную жизнь, но только в том случае, если он согласится немедленно покинуть планету.
Младшие бопперы против старщих бопперов, задумавших создать на планете единый и могучий мегамозг…Первый роман “железной” тетралогии Рюкера (Software, Wetware, Freeware, Realware) считается безусловной классикой киберпанкаю.
Не имею ни малейшего представления о том, насколько далеко и насколько ясно представлял себе в те годы Рюкер центральный сюжет всей своей тетралогии, но самый первый её роман серьезной удачей назвать сложно.
Inventiveness, radical thinking and pretty comical through out.Software is closer to traditional Science fiction or cyberpunk than some of Rucker’s other books like White light, Space Time Donuts or Mathaticians in Love which exist in Rucker’s own invented sub-genre of Transrealism.
In a sense that in the most important thing cyberpunk and Rucker are doing here is breaking Asimov’s laws, which are often enforced throughout science fiction.Another one of my favorite parts is when one human character watches the process of another human's body being taken apart and being mechanical.
By this time in the future, artificially produced organs are cheap and drunks survive for decades by simply replacing wasted livers with new ones at will.On the moon live the Boppers, the first generation of robots that have learned to 'bop', which means having conscious thoughts and reflections.
But humans and Boppers still get along and there is mutual trade, especially the moon-produced artificial organs are a popular export.This balanced peace is threatened by a new generation of robots, the Big Boppers, who have sizes varying from an ice-cream van to a starship, a hotel or even an entire factory.
Software by Rudy Rucker is a gritty, gripping science-fiction novel that explores cyberpunk themes in a retro (Pulp or early Golden Age) format.
Software feel like reading an old Amazing Stories or Astounding Science Fiction magazine.
The slim volume and direct prose make Software feel slightly and deliciously subversive.Winner of the inaugural Philip K.
Dick award in 1982, Software is a clear influence on many other science fiction writers, most notably Richard K.
What follows is a terse, action-packed adventure that presents interesting science-fiction concepts beside bits of lurid imagery and unsubtle social commentary.Read my entire review at the Used Books Blog.
The loss of the 3 Laws of Robotics and shows the evolution of Robots to a point in which they consider the Human soul or the "it" of life as the very definition of Software.
Which makes this novel a short but very interesting read.As part of a Tetralogy I can't wait to see what happens in the other novels.
I am very tempted due to the short reads to just go on reading.
"Software" features good characters specially Cobb Anderson who initially was the one who reprogrammed the Robots to eliminate the original 3 Laws of Robotics.
Fantastic! Everything I like about sci-fi is captured in this book. Somehow the first things that come to mind are Phillip K. Dick and Kurt Vonnegut. As the foreword by William Gibson states, Rudy seems capable of doing anything at any time. His narratives twist through the bizarre experiences of his characters. The material is funny, fantastically original, and very naughty and edgy. Something like the Illuminati books ... but with a much more coherent narrative.Wonderful! Love it! Great!
I loved this. My only complaint is it is too short--it doesn't feel finished at the end. But it's totally hilarious. I'm no good at synopsis, but this is pretty classic sci-fi--robots attempting to steal human's "software" and add it to their massive processor. I love the words he makes up--like pheezer, for "freaky geezer" and his endearing characters. I love the way his universe is so recognizable, even though it is so strange. And it's really wacky, but as one blurb on the back says, there is an internal logic to his "evocation of the century."
This one was a solid SF book,it had good direct prose and it was a fun,enjoyable read. It was also thoughtprovoking,smart with its ideas,the characters was very well done. I agree with the cover blurb that it is a classic Cyperpunk novel.I could have as easily rated it 4 stars,it was that good but i didnt because i have a feeling the other books in the series will be even better.
I've been trying to catch up on various scifi-related classics that I somehow missed out on, so I read this and Wetware recently, and was entertained but not particularly impressed. The premise was fun and the plot progressed reasonably quickly, but it all seemed crudely juvenile and one-dimensional.
Hrm... Interesting ideas, but the characters are so wooden. It reads like an old fashioned movie, and the characters are secondary to the story which isn't particularly complex. There's a nice thread of philosophy running through it which would have been worth expanding further via character interactions or experiences.
I'm leading an online book discussion for this in June 2011. If anyone wants to read it with me, you can download a free copy here: http://manybooks.net/titles/ruckerrot....
An interesting take on robots that lies somewhere between Asimov and Terminator, but there were no characters for whom I felt much affinity. Amusing enough that I'll probably finish at least another of the tetralogy... we'll see if I make thru them all...
