https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13061.Stormy_Weather
This book was like reading a tabloid, only I cared less about the people between the covers.
Stormy Weather follows Carl Hiaasen's usual fomula, with his normal cast of characters.
The story takes place in the Florida Everglades, as usual, and contains the author's requrired amount of environmental "preachiness."If Hiaasen's books are all so predictable, why do I like reading them so much?
Because he is an incredibly clever writer with a dark, twisted sense of humor that I truly enjoy.
Because his stories move along at the perfect pace, with the right amount of satire and sarcasm and incredibly unique characters that you either want to get to know, or love to hate.
Yes, there is a theme to the Hiaasen books and if you've read one, you will be able to draw parallels to them all. Luckily, some of the things they have in common are that they are deliciously bitingly satiric, often crazily funny and surely greatly entertaining! The third appearance of Skink is no exception and the 'hero' in this one, the complex Augustine (who juggles real skulls as relaxation/meditation) is a great complement to the ex-governor.
Very dark frenetic humor with a superabundance of ridiculous characters on the margins of society. I guess one could consider the police officers normal....sort of. Very funny. Would make a wild movie with lots of slapstick and insane situations. I wouldn't want to read a lot of books like this, but Stormy Weather was a good experience for me. Set in Florida. Is everyone in Florida like this?
Don't know why there's no sun up in the sky.This time the author scrambles a muddle of cartoonish characters whose lives intersect implausibly in the immediate aftermath of destruction and mayhem wreaked by an unnamed hurricane upon South Florida.
This book is awful!What's beyond comprehension is the advertising soundbites featured on the cover by reputable outlets the likes of The Wall Street Journal and Time Magazine, which blazon "Hilarious!" "Raucous Good Fun!" and "Positioning the Author to Become This Country's Premier Satirist!" What?
I will not repeat my mistakes by reading anything more by this author.Note to self: Checking something out from the library imposes absolutely no obligation for you to spend any more time completing it.
When I joined GR, I mistakenly thought I had read this book and gave it four stars.
I was wrong - which I realised when I stumbled upon the book at the Lifeline Bookfair in Canberra.
I've now actually read the novel and upgraded it to five stars.Carl Hiassen has not dissapointed me yet.This is my kind of book.
It has zany characters that you really do love or hate and understand, a funny plot as intricately woven as a fine basket and an underlying message - that is not in your face and you can choose to see it or not.You just really know when you read a Carl Hiassen novel that the really bad guys will get their comeuppance.It leaves us with a great sense of satisfaction on top of all the laughs we've had on the way.
The characters in Stormy Weather come together in Miami in the usual Hiassen convoluted manner following a major hurricane that has devastated the area.
Populating this novel are an ex-governor, with a mission for protecting his beloved Florida, who left society and now makes his home in the swamp eating roadkill; two low-level con artists, one of whom shows a penchant for violence and the other habors a Kennedy fantasy; several greedy and reprehensible men involved in home construction, inspection, and repair; a honeymoon couple whose different world views quickly become apparent; an easily seduced insurance adjustor, just wanting some piece/peace?; two state troopers romantically involved and all-around good people; a skull-juggling, nice law school dropout; and a crooked-as-they-come mobile home salesman.
I've been reading too much heavy stuff (Under the Volcano, The Savage Detectives etc.) and was looking forward to a light, fast paced read with some good laughs thrown in, and I'd always heard that Hiaasen was a perfect example of what they call a "beach read." Also I was intrigued by the idea that his books are always set in Florida, as I spent my childhood years living there and was curious to see if the prose would do a good job of communicating a sense of place (though my memories of the sunshine state are pretty vague at this point) As you can see by the two stars, I was a little disappointed.
This story is filled with Skink & Jim, which is usually a good thing, for a good example read Double Whammy.
This time Skink is more sad and pathetic, not the usual renegade-recluse-with-the-heart-of-gold.
If I had to rank all the Hiaasen books, this would be second from bottom, right above Strip Tease, which was a bad book and a worst movie.
I give this 3 stars because, as far as summer time, beach books go, you could do a lot worst.
This book was so funny and the characters were so different. I did not know this was a series but I love the crazy, uber intelligent, gross, scrupulous character that Carl Hiaasen created in Skink (ex-governor). Florida has just had a devastating hurricane and between the people that are homeless and the vultures that come there to scam them, CH weaves a tale that is hysterical and has a balanced redemption. If your up for a riotous romp through the Everglades with a wonderfully clever, kooky cast then this just may be for you.
I need to find a new book. A book where just ONE character has motives that are purely good.
Carl Hiaasen books are an interesting thing.
Greed, environmental protection, despicable villains, and offbeat quirky “heroes”.
Not among the best of his I have read, but not down there with the worst.This novel features the reoccurring character of Skink, I think this is the 3rd book (in terms of publication order) in which Skink appeared.
I think that is the greatest weakness of this book.
It could have ended 20 pages earlier than it did, and the book would have suffered nothing for it.
Not as engaging and fun as other Hiaasen, but not a stinker.
This is one of my favorite Hiaasen novels.
It has 10 or 12 crazy characters (including a one-eyed ex-governor who lives off the wild in the Everglades) and it's hilarious!
If you haven't read any Hiaasen, he is based in the Miami area and his books are all humor/crime novels that usually have basically the same theme: a somewhat crazy environmentalist fighting evil, corrupt forces (Florida govt., land developers) in the Everglades.
It's really a love-it-or-hate-it genre, but if you love one Hiaasen book, you'll compulsively read the rest of his novels.
I've read all 11 books and I also recommend Lucky You, Sick Puppy, and Tourist Season.
Knopf.Category – Mystery/Comedy Publication Date – August, 1995.This series is so good that I keep trying to sneak one in every once in awhile as I read current titles.Hurricane Andrew is now a memory but when it hit South Florida its devastation had everyone’s attention.
This novel, although funny, does hit on the problems brought on by Hurricane Andrew.A pair of newly weds find themselves torn apart as he wants to video, for profit, the devastation.
The wild animals, released during the fury of the storm, proceed to wreak havoc on some of the low-lives who populate the novel.
He's describing seven missionaries from the Church of the High Pentecostal Rumination who immediately proceed to Miami after the hurricane as they make a practice of witnessing to all natural disasters.
The son is captivated by the hurricane, for it has turned loose hundreds of cattle and other farm animals into a land formerly devoid of animals worth hunting.
Unfortunately, he mistakes a Cape Buffalo from the wild animal farm for a cow ....
Well, I was told I’d love Hiaasen, so I read Skinny Dip a few years ago, disliked it, tried again with Basket Case a year later and really liked that, so Stormy Weather (which I coincidentally read just as the Stormy Daniels story was breaking) was to be the tie-breaker.
Though much closer in tone and plot to Skinny Dip than Basket Case, once it got going, I actually liked this one the most of the three.
But Hiassen's clever and witty take-no-prisoners style is very worthy of a loyal following.I've never read a Hiaasen book and it seems that this is #3 of a series.
I don't like to start in the middle of a series and maybe that had something to do with my enjoyment of the book--this may not have been a good one to start Hiassen with (and if I had made the connection between Hiaasen and the abysmal movie Striptease, I may never have picked up a Hiaasen book and that would have been a shame).
This time it's a Florida hurricane which starts the ball rolling, as various couples find that a hurricane has completely wrecked the lives they had been living before the winds hit and overturned everything that made them the people they felt themselves to be - prostitutes, real estate/insurance/construction scammers, crooked government appraisers, trust fund recipients, elderly retirees, and vacationing honeymooners.
But, have no fear, gentle reader, Skink, the insane ex-governor of Florida, will bring justice for the third time (this is number three in the Skink series) to those lucky enough to cross his path.
A Carl Hiaasen book is always entertaining, and like most, this one ends happily as long as you aren't a really bad person.
Skink does not save really bad persons.
If the Writer Fairy, dressed in sparkly chinos, tube top, ruby tiara and plaid sneakers, bebopped her way into my bedroom and asked me, "Who d'ya wanna write like?" I think I'd vacillate between Reginald Hill and Carl Hiaasen.
But before she bonked me with the ruby magic wand, I'd likely settle on Hiaasen.
His prose is crisp and funny.
His plot twists are improbable and funny.
I'm grateful for the funny, which is entirely subjective.
So you may not like his books.
Me, I love this book.
I love Skink, though I have no desire to be in his vicinity.
A major hurricane (Andrew?) hits near Miami and Hiaasen has a lot of fun with the aftermath. His cast of characters is perfect, a mix of grifters, clueless tourists, overworked cops, hookers, hobos with a past, building industry cheaters, insurance adjusters on the take and straight, criminals, etc. High quotient of smiling with a few chuckles thrown in. Mindless entertainment but lots of clever writing and twists keep you in the plot. Solid entertainment from every one of his books so far.
The writer's skill has vastly improved. This is the best book in the Skink series so far. It's a complicated story about how everyone involved is impacted by a hurricane and how they entered, and exited, each other's world.
I LOL'ed too many times! A great story.
I do like Hiaasen’s work and his unlikely characters.
Many ring too real in their hedonism, utter lack of shame for greedy, immoral acts, and their absurd narcissism and nihilism to be entirely fictional, lol.
In contrast, others seem too simple and a touch naïvely sweet and concerned to seem real - and it seems to be too convenient to chalk up that their lot in life to just being born under a bad star.
Oh well, Hiaasen’s humour is American and somewhat blunt but nonetheless delightful.
Add unlikely plots, excesses and his signature quirkiness and he has produced, once again, an entertaining book!
Three and a half stars.
For a break from somber literature, I can always count on Hiaasen to deliver a humorous page-turner, a guilty pleasure of wacky characters and their flawed motives. Great entertainment, good-natured satire of human foibles.A timely read, just weeks after Hurricane Irma. He captures perfectly the hucksters, swindlers, looters, and opportunists swooping in to profit from misfortune.
I read a Hiaasen every year. No one has a better set of Florida man characters.
The first Hiaasen novel I ever read, and one of my favorites. (Hurricane Irma keeps making me think of scenes from it!)
Another great book by Hiaasen. This might be my favorite.
Loved this book! There were a couple of characters I would have loved to have read more about and, fortunately, Carl Hiaasen wrote a book about one of them. You want to keep reading to find out what happens. I couldn't put it down!
It's actually a major tragedy, but I guess "everything is funny, as long as it happens to somebody else" .
I actually checked on imdb to see if the author wasn't credited for the script, but no: the movie is from 1963.
But for some people this is an opportunity not to be missed and an unsavoury crowd descends on the scene with an eye for a quick profit and a gullible customer: low-life hustlers, slick-talking scammers and cold-blooded opportunists, not to mention pure gangsters and thugs The merit of Carl Hiaasen is to balance these distasteful creatures with a few good men and women, giving the book a welcome counterpoint to redeem a shaken faith in humanity.
The plot is way too complicated for me to even attempt to summarize, and the novel is filled with a seemingly unending series of bizarre and often unpleasant, if not downright repulsive, characters.
But it is a really funny book.
Hiassen is not only a keen satirist, but clearly a moralist as well; one of his specialties is finding comically inventive and poetically just ways for his characters to meet a fitting end.
Not sure how many more of his books I will want to read, as I suspect that he repeats his formula and themes, but I enjoyed the hell out of this one and am glad I read it.
