https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112078.Niccol_Rising
”The hand, heavily ringed, lay curled in the air, as if about to curve it in a greeting. Then M. de Riberac swept it downwards. His palm remained cupped towards him. His outer hand, with its heavy quartz ring, burst its way carefully down Claes’ cheek, from his eye to his chin, holding its blood-infilled course till the end. Then he drew his wrist back and let it dangle. Below the ring, blood appeared on the floor.” Claes is an apprentice to the House of Charetty of Bruges. He is, for all intent
He is the Horatio Alger of 15th century Bruges, and the reader will enjoy seeing Claes the fool evolve into Nicholas, or when he is in Italy Niccolo, and become a much sought after consultant in the power struggles between kings, princes, and aristocracy.
He creates these situations that seem like they are just elaborate pranks, but as we get to know Claes better, we start to understand that there is a bigger purpose behind almost everything he does.
The most dangerous enemy he makes is Jordan de Riberac, the man with the quartz ring who marks him for life.
This is my favorite historical novel, bar none.I have re-read this novel and the rest of the series many times, but some things never change, no matter how many times I pick them up.First, I have to read Niccolo very, very slowly.
The Niccolo series starts out in fifteenth century Bruges, which was the capital city of Flanders and today is widely considered to be the best preserved medieval city in Belgium.
Claes (who undergoes a transformation and will be known, eventually, as Niccolo) is about as complex and interesting a character I have ever run into in print.I adore this novel.
Her writing is impressive because it looks easy – there’s something so perfectly balanced and poised about these books, as if every word is in the right place, and there to do some work.
These books are quite honestly the most intellectually invigorating things I’ve read in years.I have quibbles (hi, I’m Light, and I quibble with books).
Dunnett has a way of punching you in the kidneys in the last four pages, and perhaps it’s that these books are the only fiction I’ve been reading for nearly two months, but by the end the twist of family and revenge and counter-revenge had been amped up to a pitch I found a bit ear-splitting.
I only expose this because this series has been around for a few decades, and I think the density of the various plots (and writing) will very likely cause most readers who pick up these books to toss them after a hundred pages or so if not given encouragement to stick out the reading.
I think she has a taut and thick procedural-plot style of writing (somewhat similar to police procedurals), though, which eliminated excessive descriptions or the filling in of any gaps of the reader’s knowledge about European history during the Middle Ages.
It's been a long, long while since I've had to compel myself to read a book till the end, and I don't think it's been one of those times when perseverance is rewarded.The thing with this book is that, whilst it's the trademark Dunnett style of snail-paced buildup that explodes on the very last track of the race course before the finish line, neither the plot nor the characters are worth trudging on for so long (this isn't a small book) unless you like this setting, the theme of merchants, and have an exceptional tolerance for convoluted storytelling.And I don't.
*********************************I tried to read this book once before, and I gave up.
Now several friends are reading this and so I thought it might be worth another try.
I realized when an (view spoiler)[avalanche occurred, and I didn't even care who would survive, (hide spoiler)] that something was seriously wrong!
I couldn't care less about any of the characters.
"Oh, not again!" is what goes through my mind.
Interesting historical tidbits and the descriptions of places save this from being a one star book, but this isn't enough to motivate me to continue.
I have given the book two tries.
Far be it from me to feed anyone's book addiction but have you met Dorothy Dunnett and her Nicolo series?
and has adventures all over the known world from Burgundian lands to the fall of Trebizond (the last remainder of the Byzantine empire) Scotland (Dunnett's home) via Venice, Cyprus, Africa ...
Nicolo is a character worth getting to know, with a rather Byzantine view of the world and of good and bad which gets him into trouble time and again.
Historically speaking, Dunnett knows, or rather knew her patch, and I find her world entirely credible including the amazing upward mobility that allowed tradesmen to become princes when the feudal, medieval society started changing.
While expanding my knowledge of Medici Italy in MAGNIFICO, I was reminded over and over of peripheral characters in The House of Niccolo, the Renaissance series by the magnificent Dorothy Dunnett.
Through the adventure, drama and mercantile wars of this eight-book series, the central mystery is Niccolo.Dorothy Dunnett was a genius.
If her only achievements were her two historical mystery series, House of Niccolo and Crawford of Lymond, she would still be a genius.
A phrase a speed reader might have missed could turn out to contain an explosion of laughter, trigger an emotional landslide, or illuminate a previous sequence like a sudden flare.If you like complicated plots and settings, grab a Dunnett series.
I approached this book, the first in the series with a good deal of trepidation.
I had finished The Lymond Chronicles earlier in the year and didn't think that this book, or main character would be able to match the level of fascination that I had viewed Francis Lymond.So I was relieved, very relieved to have another worthy character to be involved with.
Niccolo vander Poele is quite mesmerising and the plot in this story is as riveting and convoluted as only Dorothy Dunnett can deliver.To my mind it is a marvellous start to the series.
It's not a book that you can gloss over, it needs to be savoured.
The Great Niccolò Re-read of 2014, or This Time I Will Actually Pay Attention and Understand Things, Dammit.Dorothy Dunnett's plots are like a Rube Goldberg machine.
He launches a series of risky but lucrative schemes and, by the end of the book, has made his employer's company rich and reduced an enemy's to smoking ruins.In a way, Dunnett's historical novels are mysteries, and the mystery is always "what the hell is going on?" Since they're also good mysteries, you always know the answer in the end.
Is there anything more fun than reading a Dorothy Dunnett book?
If Dunnett's Lymond saga was too difficult for you, you should try the Niccolo series...
This series is a must for historical fiction fans!June 2015 rereadI was surprised on this reread by how much of the plot of the entire series is laid out in this first book.
I enjoyed seeing how deftly Dunnett showed the evolution of Claes into Nicholas (or Niccolo) and did see what I think were some hints of things to come later in the series.
Dunnett's writing is dense and complex so I find it more enjoyable upon rereading.
And Nicholas.After many enthusiastic recs, I read the first book of Dorothy Dunnett's Chronicles of Lymond series last year, and though I found it a rather difficult read at first, it was a rewarding one.
While browsing at Bookman though, I saw they had Dunnett's Niccolo Rising, the first book in her "prequel" series to Lymond, following Claes, later Nicholas, Vander Poele in 1460 Bruges.
Besides the plot though, it was figuring out Nicholas/Claes that kept me reading so avidly, and it was one exchange early on in the book that absolutely hooked me:"You do not like the handsome Simon, young varlet?
The House of Niccolo starts in 1460 in Bruges then moves to the city state of Venice and ends up in Trebizond at the end of the Byzantine Empire.
Breathtaking in scope.
Fascinating travelog and nightmare relationships with so many twists and turns your head is spinning.I learned more from her perspective of the Christian vs.
It is also interesting how the 2 series have very different views on this subject due to the time difference and the spread of Islam thru the levant.
In Niccolo Islam is taking over the area, in Lymond the Christians are pushing back.
I was like, "all right, Trebizond, King James, the ostrich and the Medici, they all take part in it, oh please hurry with the story, if there is any".Plus, the main character is cunning, noble, well educated, funny, loved by women and children and slaves, and - I'm sorry to say - has such a modern attitude towards many things (not only him, his friends as well) that I was completely taken aback.
Ho incontrato Niccolò per caso, perché mi piace ogni tanto leggere un bel romanzone storico, e questo sembrava ben scritto.
E' stato un incontro devastante: dopo il primo, ho atteso spasmodicamente la traduzione dei successivi, ho scritto alla casa editrice, me li sono comperata in inglese.
in inglese) L'ho regalato ad amici e ad alcuni ha fatto lo stesso effetto (altri l'hanno trovato non degno di tanta attenzione).
Perché?
Perché è scritto bene, storicamente è documentatissimo ma non è "pesante", perché l'intreccio si dipana magicamente da un libro all'altro (per 8 volumi), perché Dorothy (si, non mi sento di chiamarla Dunnett) scrive magistralmente di sentimenti senza scriverne una riga, perché non usa trabocchetti per farsi leggere (colpi di scena immotivati, sensazionalismi, etc.), perché non è facile da leggere, anzi.
I can't remember how I learned about this book, but I started with this series.
I started, and didn't stop reading until I read all day and night for months finishing this series, delved right into The Lymond Chronicles, immediately reread this, followed by a second read of Lymond.
Dunnett is an intellectual writer - these books are not to skim thru, they are dense with information about characters, plot and history.
I also spend alot of time googling history, which was fascinating, Dunnett has done her research meticulously and I learned a ton.
I was obsessed with her books, have since purchased all of them, and am just waiting to give some time before I reread.
She gives us a main character so surprising and complex in a world so richly drawn -- an amazing tour de force.
Niccolo is a dense, complex read and you have to keep track of a lot.
A lot of characters and plot twists.
Niccolo is the first in a huge series (8 books ?) and I honestly think this is the hardest one to get through in that it has so much to set up.
Once you figure out the main characters and what they're about book 2 is a much easier read.
Why I have never read a Dunnett book before is beyond me.
Set in one of my favorite eras, with stellar writing and political intrigue, it's really my perfect book.
And hopefully series.The story is set amoung the cloth merchants, bankers and mercenaries of 15th century Bruges.
It took me a few chapters to understand what was going on and who the main characters were, the story and writing are dense, the description can be long and there are many characters to keep track of but if that doesn't phase you, you just might love this book as much as I did.
I am also going to add a review under "Gemini" which will have spoilers.I am not a literary critic, nor a book editor.
(And I'm tired of reading 1 star reviews where people say they can't understand why people are so in love with Dunnett, when they didn't start with the first book, but the 4th or 5th or 8th even, and wonder why they don't enjoy the story).
Sorry, I had to vent a little.So I really do hope you take a chance and read this series of 8 books.
Thoroughly enjoy this book despite a rather slow beginning.
Here we find our hero, Claes, appears to be a clumsy, slow-witted dyer's apprentice who is constantly in trouble, not always of his own making.
We learn Claes is actually exceptionally gifted in mathematics and organizational skills and with the widow's approval makes changes that benefit the company financially.
Claes uses his full name, Nicholas.
Instead of flying over rooftops in Blois like Lymond, this hero flies the trade and banking routes around Europe on behalf of his company.
Alas DNF after about third of the book, a number of elements led me to put it aside.
I had to pause several times and go back to check where I encountered that character and how it was related to the other main characters in the story (there is a scary long character list at the beginning of the book so this aspect was certainly not unexpected).
I might attempt to read this book again in the future; at least now I know that I will need to set aside plenty of time and find the patience that this book requires.
This is the second series written by Dorothy Dunnett, and is placed in Antwerp in the 16th century.
Although it is about many things, the main focus is on the rise of the textile industry and trade and much of the book involves the search for alum, which was used to bind color.
There are six books and they take place all over, ranging from Antwerp to Morocco, Egypt, Cyprus and more.
As in the Lymond Chronicles, the books are meticulously researched, but also have a wonderful story woven throughout in which Niccolo searches for his real family.
E' il primo romanzo della serie di Niccolò, che consta di otto libri.La Serie di Niccolò è una serie di otto romanzi storici di Dorothy Dunnett ambientati a metà del XV secolo, in pieno Rinascimento europeo.
Il desiderio di Nicholas per l'accettazione del riconoscimento paterno guideranno gran parte della serie.La trama in sintesi (anche se è molto complessa) di questo primo libro: il libro si svolge in gran parte nelle Fiandre, in Borgogna e in Italia nel 1460.
Thinking nothing could be better than the story of Lymond, I was amazed how the "House of Niccolo" series is just as surprising with characters that are insanely intelligent, funny and secretive.When we meet Niccolo his name is Claes (short for Nicholas), an apprentice dyer.
Her ability to paint landscape, describe cultures and bring history accurately alive has caused me to want to travel and see parts of the world I have never considered.
I was able to experience a character that I will have to read about again to understand the depth of him.
And this time, I'm not going to be angry at Niccolo for not being Lymond or at pretty much all of the women for not being Philippa.
I'm going to enjoy the story for itself.You ought not be allowed to plow into these directly after reading the Lymond Chronicles.Apparently, I forgot quite a lot of this book.
The first time I read it, I remember being disgruntled pretty much the whole time about the characters not being Lymond, Philippa, Kate, Sybilla, Archie and so forth.
It's a wonderful book, and it shouldn't be pilloried for not being Lymond.
Action and hilarity ensue but this chapter is key--don't read it lightly.
The chapter has layers and kicks off the events not only in this book but in the entire series.
This is my second time through this series--it was a delight the first time when I had the pleasure of reading it through with several co-workers--we had a lot of fun at lunchtime discussing the antics of Nicholas de Fleury and company.
And it was a delight this time.
My Favorite Author!
I love historical fiction & Dorothy Dunnett is the absolute best in the genre.
Her books are amazing.
So incredibly intelligent and well researched.
Sometimes I felt like I should take notes just to be able to follow all the characters, historical figures, & political plots.
I love that she doesn't translate alot of the quotes in her novels - either figure it out yourself, or just forget it.
And Niccolo is the most intriguing character I have ever read.
Until the very last moment you are questioning his motivation - diabolical genius?
You'll have to read the books to find out.
who?" Which is not to say that Dunnett didn't lay out her plot well, but that she did so in a manner so labyrinthine and Byzantine that I think it surpassed the Lymond Chronicles at points.
The main character is certainly a very different person to Lymond, too; less entrancing, perhaps, and a little bit more of a blank in some ways, though probably more...
*g* A little bit more human, not quite so epic—certainly, I can picture him being a child in a way I can never quite see Lymond being.
I read the Francis books first, then the Niccolo (they were still being written/published at the time).
I'd say a good first half of it is a little chunky clunky with details that don't really start adding up until later on.While I don't really agree with him - I see in this book one of the things my dad didn't like about King Hereafter when I forced him to read it last year: that the audience, and most of the players, are never ever let in on the secrets.
Niccolo Rising - Dorothy Dunnet (9/10)Historical fiction; book 1 of The House of Niccolo.I loved Dunnett's Lymond books and had tried to read this one in the past, but didn't get far.
At the end of August I found an online group that was doing a slow read of the Niccolo books together and it seemed too good an opportunity to miss.
I had to catch up with this first book to be where they were and I found it a surprisingly easy thing to do.
As always, Dunnett has so many layers and details in this book that I'm sure I missed a lot, but a loved it all the same.
