https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48266.The_Salterton_Trilogy
But it would be a shame if fans, or newcomers to Davies writings, overlooked the three novels Davies wrote back in the Fifties, known together as The Salterton Trilogy: Tempest-Tost; Leaven of Malice; A Mixture of Frailties .Salterton is a fictional large town/small city in Southern Ontario, the locale and some of the trilogy's characters based on Davies' own editorship at a newspaper in the conservative (Tory) stronghold known as Kingston.
Clever, witty and always erudite, the Salterton Trilogy invites the reader to settle down in a typical yet extraordinary provincial Canadian town. As always, the satire is seen through the prism of art, each book dealing respectively with the theatre, local journalism and finally patronage, all of it warped by the quirky context. The characters are memorable, and as they reappear from book to book, they gain depth and of course zaniness.
Robertson Davies is quite humerous in how he looks at people and their personalities and foibles.A Mixture of FrailtiesInteresting turn of events and a great ending to the Salterton Trilogy.This book is different in "feel" and more serious in content than the other two parts of the trilogy; although Davies' humour always shines through in witty comments and situations.
The story is removed enough from the rest of the trilogy to stand alone, but the trilogy, read as a whole, is a sweeping, full-circle tale of Life, people, their loyalties and their dreams.
The Salterton Trilogy includes Tempest-Tost (1951), Leaven of Malice (1954), and A Mixture of Frailties (1958).
Tempest-Tost focuses on a community theater troupe, Leaven of Malice on a newspaper, and A Mixture of Frailties on a young singer, but really they are all three about how people live their lives and what compells them to make the choices they do.
33)Davies' novels are beautifully structured, moving seamlessly among the households (and thoughts) of Salterton's various residents.
158)This is the third of the Davies' trilogies I have read and it was as good as the others.
This is some solid fiction right here. Not as good as The Deptford or Cornish Trilogies, but all the elements of RD that you would expect. Old school bawdy humor, the hypocrisy of institutions (exposed!), the importance and progression of the artist, obtuse university profs that get their come-uppins, crazy old coots that unexpectedly have a hand in fostering young love, and much much more. You may need to have a mind like a dirty old man to enjoy this, but there are many, many good life lessons to be learned.
I read straight through these, and they were fantastic, particularly the first one. Better than the other Davies trilogy I've read.
bleak, uplifting, impossible, wonderful, smart, nasty, like Iris Murdoch dipped in whiskey and self-conscious, self-deprecating Canadianism, plus a side of Presbyterian rigor. Sigh.
I love it when I found a book just like this, by chance, not looking for it and finding out that it's a great read.
The first Robertson Davies trilogy read was just brilliant so I know that I'd be in a good hand.
Why couldn't it be as light as Tempest but still knock me out from time to time?Third part, A Mixture of Frailties was the one I like the least.
I suppose there are really people with that kind of "hatred" who would act this way towards their son.
Which goes the same way with the kind of people I like to meet.Was thinking 4 stars but maybe nearer to 3.5PS.
I liked the group of characters and the town that Davies presented, and the much lighter tone was kind of a refreshing change from the heavy atmosphere of the Deptford trilogy.
But it didn't draw me in like Fifth Business did, and so it took me quite awhile to get around to reading the second book, Leaven of Malice.
Once I finally did though, the series really took off for me, and I absolutely loved the second and third books--loved them!
In fact, A Mixture of Frailties officially became my new favorite Robertson Davies book (well, so far, that is--I still have five more of his to read at this point).
Oh, this was wonderful vacation reading (though I got some odd glances on the airplane when I started giggling helplessly several times).
The three books (which I have in an omnibus) are set in the Canadian city of Salterton, home of two cathedrals, one university, and many fascinating people.
As they share a setting and some characters, the books comprising the trilogy (Tempest-Tost, Leaven of Malice, A Mixture of Frailties) are interconnected to a large extent; they could certainly be read independently, but I prefer to have read them together to follow larger developments in the lives of the characters.
My own copy is worn out as it's been on long business trips, short trips to the cottage and to the hospital with me twice when we had the girls (I can see that I might have made an uneducated decision to take it with the first trip to the hospital but why I did it again a second time?) I've been thinking of reading it aloud to one of our kids lately as she is interested in journalism and the role of an editor.
A few days ago I met a woman on the VIA train and we were talking about the Stratford Festival and how grateful we both are that years ago a group of people brought quality Shakespeare to that little town.
It made me remember Robertson Davies and his dedication to the theatre.
A "Wind in the Willows" of characterisation, Dickensian in descriptive detail, and an uncanny knowledge of the realities of a great variety of human pursuits, particularly academia, artistic and professional. A thoroughly enjoyable read with the well constructed plots dovetailing well through the Trilogy. "Takes all types to make a world" in essence, just a pity the book petered out in the end when handling "death" situations and rushing to conclusions of hanging threads.
This trilogy - "Tempest-Tost; Leaven of Malice; A Mixture of Frailties" - is what I imagine a Canadian version of the Barchester Chronicles might be. Brilliant characterisation and a wonderfully woven story that looks at the human condition in all its guises.
I love all Robertson Davies books. This trilogy keeps popping into my thoughts.
Tempest Tost Feb 20, 2018
These three loosely-intwertwined books -- "Tempest Tost," "Leaven of Malice" and "A Miixture Of Frailties" -- take readers to the deceptively quaint Canadian city of Salterton, which is distinctive for having one university and two cathedrals.
And while it's one of Davies' lighter works compared to his Deptford trilogy, this winding story still has a poignancy and cleverness that shows his skill with his odd characters."Tempest-Tost" opens with the organization of an amateur production of Shakespeare's "The Tempest." A motley crew of actors join it, including an exuberent professor, his quiet daughter, a quiet mama's boy, a beautiful rich girl, a womanizing soldier, and an infatuated schoolteacher.
This is Davies first trilogy, and, if I remember correct, his first novel was the lead-off to this, Tempest-Tost.
But finding the individual is only the start of Solomon's trouble, and the story follows two separate lines: one regarding Solomon and his need for a heir to rid himself of his mother's legacy, and one regarding the lucky trust recipient, and her entry into the world of opera.There were certain things near to Davies' experience, it seems: theater, academic life, and trusts.
Trusts can be found in both A Mixture of Frailties and the second and third books of the Cornish trilogy, academic life is featured in Leaven of Malice and The Rebel Angels, and theater productions in Tempest-Tost and The Lyre of Orpheus.
In the final novel of the trilogy, Leaven of Malice, the central character Monica Gall is also the most likable character and as such kept me interested in the book when I tired of some of the other characters for whom the titular "malice" was more their style.
The central role that music plays in this novel is another signature of the Robertson Davies' style (see The Lyre of Orpheus for another example).
The combination of interesting, if not likable, characters and the wit of the master storyteller made this a good read.
Déjà le traitement des arts (le théâtre dans le premier volet, le chant, l’opéra, la critique dans le troisième) est à la hauteur de ce que Davies produira dans les décennies suivantes; en plus, sa fresque d’une petite ville ontarienne nombriliste au début des années 1950, les caractères dépeints par la description d’un salon ou d’un bureau, les personnages souvent caricaturaux, mais naturels, la philosophie derrière tout cela, et plusieurs morceaux d'anthologie, dont la déclaration d’amour de Solly vers la fin de Tempest-Tost (pages 222-223 de cette édition), que j’aimerais tant avoir écrite moi-même...
À ma connaissance, tout Robertson Davies est de cette même eau, justement.
Tempest-tost feels like the author is still establishing his style, and it is only through Leaven of malice and A Mixture of Frailties that I feel he is getting into his stride which will produce the Deptford and Cornish trilogies.
Whilst these are enjoyable upbeat eads in Davies' style, they do not perhaps have the depth of his later novels.
Incidentally, do not be put off by it being a trilogy -- whilst the community of people involved is the same, there are three separate stories with differnet focuses of charcters, so there is no particular need to read the, all, or any particular need to read them in order.
Another brilliant trilogy and a joy to read. Leaven of Malice is particularly funny with some hilarious set pieces especially Mrs Bridgetower's Thursday "at home" session. What makes Davies wit so effective is he never stoops to low blows, sarcasm or ridicule - his tone is always impeccably polite and never judgmental, yet the foibles of all characters are clearly presented. His writing comes from another time - a time of subtlety, of measure, of elegance - his work is really something to treasure.
Three part seriesDavies makes a mockery of small town ladies and stage play production electricians, elderly mothers who spite their children and spoiled girls.Stars are an educated professor who comes back to his small town where he grew up, a singer leaves the small town by a series of events that leave the professor without a promised estate. The singer becomes world class and only comes back to the small town when her mother gets sick. With bits of Davies greatness in between.
The first Robertson Davies I'd read - believable characters and clever witty writing. Not much actually seems to happen and the plots are quite gentle, but the books are very well-written and for the most part engaging. I did get a bit bored with the final book of the trilogy, which just seemed to go on and on.
I adored these books. Davies is so wonderfully caustic and his characters are delightful even when they are horrible. I consider this to be the "Waiting for Guffman" of the literary world: a must read for anyone involved in theatre.
I have read many of his novels before. This one I read previously as well. I remembered it as being better than it actually was. The 1 and 3rd stories are better than the second. I think his other novels are better than this one - start with the others first.
Early Robertson Davies, a great trilogy on the interesting and amusing inhabitants of a Canadian college town and their artistic pretensions. My favorite is the third book, "A Mixture of Frailties", about the adventures of aspiring singer Monica Gall in London.
These are my favorite Robertson Davies novels, particularly the first of the trilogy, Tempest-Tost. The last one , A Mixture of Frailties is a little darker in tone than the first two but is still enjoyable.
Diminishing returns. I love Davies's style and storytelling, but these got weaker as they went on. It's hard to imagine anything topping "The Deptford Trilogy," but I'm still planning on "The Cornish Trilogy."
I"m re-reading because Salteron is really Kingston, Ontario, at the mouth of Rideau Canal and we'll be up there in about 5 days! Very good, very dense
Desert island material.
