https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18693743-prince-of-fools
So I give you Jalan Kendeth, who owes his inspiration to George MacDonald Fraser's Flashman (of the eponymous Flashman (1969)) just as Jorg owed his to Anthony Burgess' A Clockwork Orange (1962).
MacDonald Fraser's Flashman character was of course inspired in turn by Tom Brown's Schooldays (1857) by Thomas Hughes, so really I'm reaching back over 150 years!The opening line is:I’m a liar and a cheat and a coward, but I will never, ever, let a friend down.
You’re probably the sort that likes clowns!’The grin broadened as if the mere mention of clowns was hilarious.
Battles are all about strategy, and strategy pivots on priorities. Since my priorities were Prince Jalan, Prince Jalan, and Prince Jalan, with “looking good” a distant fourth, I took the opportunity to resume running away. Replace "Prince Jalan" with "Khanh" in those sentences, and you got me down to a Tee. Which might go a long way towards explaining why I loved the main character so much.The thing is, I don't like a knight in shining armor. I like them tarnished, covered in mud, or better yet
Replace "Prince Jalan" with "Khanh" in those sentences, and you got me down to a Tee. Which might go a long way towards explaining why I loved the main character so much.The thing is, I don't like a knight in shining armor.
Anti-heroes?Do you want to take all the romance in the world and shove it up someone's anal sphincter?Does necromancy sound like the perfect Saturday night?Want some epic Bromance?If so, there's a pretty good probability you might enjoy this book.
I can't remember much of Prince of Thorns, but the setting in this book feels a lot darker, with elements of the undead, and a quest not for the throne, but into the bowels of hell itself.Jalan: 
Heck, it’s even better than ‘Red Sister’, Mark’s newest book and what most of his fans are calling his best work up to date.Prince of Fools, the first book in The Red Queen’s War trilogy took place within the same world and during the same period of time with Prince of Thorns (Mark Lawrence’s debut surrounding the infamous Jorg Ancrath).
This is one of the most unlikely starts to a friendship and yet it ended up being one of the best duos I ever read, just from the first book.One of the major problem I had with 'The Broken Empire' were the fact that the world took place in Earth that made me feel like I wasn’t reading a high fantasy book.
Unless of course not letting them down requires honesty, fair play or bravery." Prince of Fools, the first story in The Red Queen's War trilogy is set in The Broken Empire and introduces readers to Prince Jalan.
Snorri's backstory, as briefly mentioned is him spinning his tale of tribulation late at night to Jalan over the warmth of the campfire with the stars as the backdrop to his tragedy.
Jalan and Snorri are one of the finest duos I have had the pleasure of reading about.
Jalan, the majority of the time is scheming, thinking of a way to run away, however; against his self-centred better judgment, he and Snorri do become great friends.
I was very fortunate to receive this book as an ARC (Advance Reading Copy.) I've enjoyed Mark Lawrence's work before, and I knew that he had a wry twist of humor that he can inject into the darkest of scenes. I was not prepared for 'laugh out loud' moments, especially not when our heroes are in danger up to their brows!There are special rewards in store here for readers of the The Broken Empire series. Highly recommended.
In some ways it is a good thing, but while reading I felt a lot less engaged in this story than I am every time I re-watch The Emperor's New Groove.On the positive side, the comedy aspect in this book is S T E L L A R.
I consistently floated in and out of concentrating on what was happening, often only pulled back in when Jalan made a comedic observation.The Norse mythology influence didn't strike me as particularly unique or remarkable; it seemed like the story relied too heavily on the audience's knowledge of the Norse tales to flesh out the world instead of actually presenting something new.Something that was brought to my attention later that I didn't completely realize while reading is that the setting is actually Earth?
(I mean, who wouldn’t want to run the other way if you were facing certain death.) So while the book had a much different tone than Prince of Thorns, it worked amazingly well for me, because of Jalan.For those more concerned with how Jalan’s tale and the Red Queen’s War fit into the Broken Empire saga, I have to assure you Mr. Lawrence does an outstanding job harmonizing the two: Jorg’s personal journey meshing seamlessly with the Red Queen’s War, separate and distinct yet part of the same overarching struggle.
We fell in love, but I consider myself a gentleman, so I never lay a hand, not until the wedding at least (publication of the 3rd & final book).Four days ago I decided it was time.
The events of this trilogy are taking place in the same place (and time) as with The Broken Empire, so the world is already established, but Mark doesn't stop there.
Unless of course not letting them down requires honesty, fair play, or bravery.” All in all, if you loved Mark's previous trilogy, you should definitely elevate this one to the top of your TBR list.
“Humanity can be divided into madmen and cowards. My personal tragedy is being born into a world where sanity is held to be a character flaw.”  What a fun read this was! This reminded me when i first started reading for fun. No judgement, no criticism, just enjoyed the ride. Prince Jalan is indeed a prince of fools *says in the most affectionate tone*
► BR with my MacHalo Freaks starting Oct. 1, 2015.DNF at 35%.
And it took me two whole months to get there.I'm sorry.
Even though I'm in love with Jal. Sigh.
It was a beautiful thing, what Jal and I had.
It was love at first page.
He said: I’m a liar and a cheat and a coward, but I will never, ever, let a friend down.
Unless of course not letting them down requires honesty, fair play, or bravery [...] I’ve always found hitting a man from behind to be the best way to go about thi
Even though I'm in love with Jal. Sigh.
It was love at first page.
Had he not tried to turn this book into the perfect cure for insomnia I would still be naïve, young and in love.
This started out pretty well.
The story was pretty good.
Last thing I read Jal and Snorri (no, I will not mention how ridiculous that name is.
You're hilarious, Mr Lawrence) were on a boat.
They'd been on that boat for too long some time.
Either because they were pure crap or because I wanted to kill them with fire.
3/5  “Bravery is just a different kind of broken.”   I'm really confused and feeling pretty conflicted with this novel. Some things I loved most things I hated. There's something about Marks prose that irks me and I'm gonna put it down to him trying too hard to write beautiful and eloquent sentences. Yes you get less of it in this novel then you do with his 'Broken Empire trilogy' however for me his writing feels extremely forced, beautiful prose should be effortless. But this is just my opinion
Yes you get less of it in this novel then you do with his 'Broken Empire trilogy' however for me his writing feels extremely forced, beautiful prose should be effortless.
Mark knows how to write awesome main characters but that's all I ever love about his novels, I hate his world building and dislike pretty much everything else.
Likes:- I loved his use of Norse Mythology, I don't know anyone who hates Vikings.- I thought Jalan was an extremely loveable character and I found him to be very realistic.
I think we can all agree though that several warm bodies between Jalan and the throne is an excellent idea.As I’ve watched the Windsor boys grow up, one of the things that has always made me smile to think about is how much more fun Prince Harry can have being the spare rather than what Prince William can have being the heir presumptive.
The world that Mark Lawrence has created in the Broken Empire trilogy continues to be extended in Prince of Fools.
If you read Prince of Thorns, you must know that Mark Lawrence's fantasy is very character driven and involves a lot of travelling, characteristics which didn't bother me at all in the trilogy devoted to my favorite little bastard, aka Jorg.
In my opinion my experience would have been better if I had read this one between King of Thorns and Emperor of Thorns, because everything I learnt in Jorg's last book influenced my interest, reducing it for sure.However, I absolutely adored the Friendship slowly growing between Jalan and Snorri.
Sale Alert 9/30/17: on Amazon for $2.99 This is a tale of two heroes ”Two heroes, one led willy-nilly by his cock, the other northward by his heart. Neither bringing their brain into any decision of import. Prince Jal has been pretty useless his entire life. He is really a prince of no importance and mainly uses his status as a prince to get laid. However, he is one of the most likable horrible cads I’ve ever read. I loved his entire narrative and every messed up musing that he had throughout th
They have to stay close to each other which Jal isn’t exactly excited about since Snorri wants to travel north to save his family.
I like most of the women around him totally swooned for his bullshit and loved every minute of it.There is a lot of traveling in this book.
The fact that he has an angel stuck in his head and preaches to him about all of his sins every morning trying to make him a better person…well it was hilarious.Honestly I didn’t think a lot actually happened in the book until the very end and they everything happened…all at once and huge.
First, the hate: The main character, Prince Jalan Kendeth, was the type of character I really hated.
His main focus of the entire book?
He is the one throughout the book pushing forward toward the final conflict.
Jalan is the main character of the book and the story is told through his eyes but Snorri is the driving force of the book.
Without him, there would be no story, no plot, no conflict, nothing.Another problem I struggled with was the lack of action throughout the first 80% of the book.
Like Abercrombie, Rothfuss, Brett and Polansky, Lawrence gets better with each book he writes, the experience he provides the reader more nuanced and diverse, while keeping to the mainstays that made his Broken Empire trilogy so amazing.In Jal and Snorri, we see the familiar pairing of dark-humored prince and honorable straight-man that we loved so much with Jorg and Sir Makin.
But Snorri's story is fundamentally about family, and Jorg's vicious ascent into destiny is wholly different from Jal's hapless stumbling to glory.
In the end, PRINCE OF FOOLS is a story about our inability to see our own heroism for what it is, how humility and shame and fear can get tangled.
(Could I be more annoying?)Each time I picked up the book, I couldn't stand the main character, Prince Jalan.
I couldn't make it past the first chapter or two.But then I realized, this is not Lawrence's first run around with a dislikeable character.
And he was a brilliant character, quite possibly one of the best put to the page, especially in terms of his growth.What's different about Prince Jalan is that he's pretty much the opposite.
However, I know I'm guilty of the same, not all the time but sometimes, and I don't like it.Lawrence has written another winner and I'm excited for the rest of the trilogy.
He may not be the main focus of this book, but I feel like he is the biggest threat to this fantasy series, so knowing his fate left this feeling a little flat.
I think this should have been written after the events of that series, but it seems to me that the author was so desperate to allow Jorg, the protagonist of the previous series, an appearance that he has compromised this novel.Moreover, this would have worked a lot better if it was in a completely new fantasy universe.
I’m so frustrated with it.The first two books of The Broken Empire series had some small degree of charm, but their originality made them moderately worthwhile.
While the start of the book has this carefree plot with Jalan getting into trouble, Jalan only thinking of himself, Jalan not listening when the Red Queen tells something important and ominous.
So shit escalates, and there is this evil witch, crone ( awesome word.....), no one sees that lingers next to the queen thats totally involved.
But Jalan does....and his soon to be buddy Snorri.
Soon be sooner, Snorri and Jalan set out to find Snorri his wife and child.
Some truths come barbed; each word would tear you inside out if you forced them from your lips.'Im just gonna quickly continue :)
Unfortunately for him a spell of the Silent Sister's, meant for an agent of the Dead King, latches on to Jalan and binds him to Snorri, a fierce Viking warrior.
Jalan and Snorri were totally different characters, but they made a surprisingly great team.
The whole story was told from Jalan's POV and he was a great character to have narrate this story.
Jalan and Snorri actually met a 14 year old Jorg on their travels north.
It was good because I always felt this post-apocalyptic fantasy setting with its mix of old builder technology and magic was a fascinating one and one with a lot more stories worth the telling.
As a matter of fact I think if you look up "rogue" in a roll-play dictionary you may find Jalan's picture.
Snorri is a barbarian whom Jalan attempts to "shaft" and ends up magically bound to....Anyway I'm moving dangerously close to spoilers here so I'll just say that I really enjoyed this read and look forward to the next in the series.
With a rogue and a barbarian/semi-paladin traveling together we get a fine yarn.
I'm almost never big on stories revolving around the "cowardly rogue" but here I still hold out hope for Jalan...Though to be honest I may be deceiving myself.Recommended.
Whilst there is also a share of horror and bloody action, some philosophy and darkness – this book never ventures too far into the dark zone and I can wholeheartedly recommend to all fantasy lovers.A must read for Norse gods (especially Loki) and Viking’s fans.I’m a liar and a cheat and a coward, but I will never, ever, let a friend down.
Classics such as, “What’s that over there?” work surprisingly often, but for truly optimal results it’s best if the person doesn’t ever know you were there.I find the important thing in running away is not how fast you run but simply that you run faster than the next man.
It's more light hearted, despite dark themes and the dead walking, with real humour, wit, and verve in both Jalan and Snorri.
I spent much of my time reading Prince of Thorns highlighting passages that spoke to me or were honed killer-sharp, yet here the words blurred beneath my eyes as I sped through the story.
It was particularly impressive for me as i'm not really that into Norse mythology or the whole Viking thing, which is why I put off reading this trilogy, but now I'm fully invested.Then there's the crossover with characters from Thorns, a moment of meeting that made me do a double take: hang on...is that????
Regarding his latest novel, Mark Lawrence has stated that what did not want to do was give us Jorg Ancrath again but in new clothes.
And yet, even the slippery Prince Jal can’t avoid running afoul of the dark sorcery that is rife in the Broken Empire.
The idea of the unlikely hero is not a new one, certainly, but the difference is Mark Lawrence actually makes me believe that Jalan has it in him.
There is no doubt this is a Mark Lawrence novel – pick it up and you will immediately see the hallmarks of his storytelling and writing style which made The Broken Empire trilogy such a incredibly addictive read, replete with his darkly droll humor and very quotable dialogue.
The more light-hearted tone of the main characters (as opposed to Jorg) can make the cut to darkness all the more jarring, and I think this demonstrates Lawrence's excellent control over his writing.
The writing in The Red Queen's War is still recognisably Lawrence's, but it seems a touch more natural, making the writing in the original trilogy seem a bit more forced in comparison.
I am not criticising the writing in any way - the impression I am left with after reading Pricen of Fools is that Lawrence worked harder constructing and shaping every word in Jorg's trilogy whereas the words seemed to flow more easily in the writing of Jalan and Snorri's.
I really do not want to spoil much but the description of the landscape and the personal journey of the main characters as much as the two travel through the walking a world that resembles a lot Europe (and it felt soooooo familiar to me!).2.
I do not want to spoil anything about it but if you like Norse mythology, this is a great place to start.
I am really looking forward to reading more about this story and I really recommend the book to anyone and especially those who like fantasy, journeys and Norse mythology!
If you like fantasy you are going to like this book.How can you go wrong when you pair a cowardly prince with a large Viking? Thoroughly enjoyed the book. It is filled with equal parts humor and action.
This is a little darker than my normal, but I am DETERMINED to read something from this author. Still so nervous tho 😓
But with a little luck, a dashing smile, and the ability to lie from the hip, I've done a surprisingly good job of seeming a hero and of fooling most of the people most of the time.The story was told predominantly from Jalan's POV and a smattering from Snorri ver Snagason, a renowned Norse warrior, whose fates were magically intertwined and bound for a journey/quest that was obviously too fraught with danger for the former's liking.
Characterization of the two main characters, particularly Prince Jalan, and his most unlikely friendship with Snorri were the best parts of the book.
Yup, right from the womb in 1991 I declared that I need to read this book ..
but I finally read it!Prince of Fools is the first book from The Red Queen's War series.
It's about Prince Jalan, who is the Red Queen's grandson.
Of course it's not just him, no the Red Queen has called on the ENTIRE family to stop twiddling their thumbs and start doing their job and shit.Now besides Jalan, there's Snorri who is probably my favorite character.
He's travelling with Jalan and they have to work together side by side throughout the book.
Yup, cool.Overall, I adored this book.
