https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38855.Confederates_in_the_Attic
When I was in first or second grade, I started creating books about American history: World War II, the Indian Wars and, of course, the Civil War. These books had no texts, only pictures (extremely graphic pictures that, today, would probably get me invited to the psychiatrist’s office).
It’s because I like to think (perhaps flattering myself) that I have something in common with the Civil War reenactors who spurred Tony Horwitz to write Confederates in the Attic.
Confederates in the Attic gains steam once Horwitz leaves Kentucky and really gets his Civil War tour underway.
OK, so I'm on a Civil War road trip with my Significant Other, following the official Virginia state "Lee's Retreat" tour and reading to him from "Confederates in the Attic" to pass the time.
So after being guided through his store and hearing all of his tall tales about it, we wander across the street to a hitorical house, with a marker showing it as part of the Official "Lee's Retreat" Tour.
Being Yankees, we've put the Civil War behind us, but didn't realize until reading this book and touring the South, that many Southerns have not.
For instance, he perfectly captures the cliquishness of re-enacting: the overweight, middle-aged farbs wearing second-hand work boots and puffing innocently on Marlboros; the hardcores who feel "that crowds of spectators interfered with an authentic experience of combat"; the civilian sutlers, nurses, and Lee & Lincoln impersonators; the few embittered ex-Real Deal guys who like to massage their tattoos and grouse, "Just like the real military -- a continual fucking screw-up" -- everyone distrusting everyone else.There's the phenomenon of way too many people (including yours truly) wanting to be Confederate: "When I play Northern, I feel like the Russians in Afghanistan," a guy from freaking New Jersey explained.
However, as someone who has seen the SCV at work, as well as other so-called heritage societies in action in my hometown (Cumberland, MD) and at my college (Gettysburg), I am in the unfortunate position to be able to verify that such attitudes still prevail.
In the end, perhaps his most important achievement with this work is to demonstrate why it is dangerous for society and individual groups to fixate on a single moment in history and fail to take into account either events previously or post.
Ferguson however fails to delve into the groups' beliefs (such as the SCV) whom he discusses, and their racial biases.
Years later, after he became a journalist and spent some time abroad, Horowitz returned to the U.S. and to the question which has rekindled in his mind - why was his grandfather so interested in the Civil War in a land that he barely knew, making great effort to read a book on it in a language that he could barely understand?
After spending a day with Hodge and being impressed by their passion for the subject, Horowitz's interest in the Civil War has rekindled; he decided to spend a year touring the states where the war took place, searching for the places and people who kept the memory of the conflict into the present day.
And I'm saying this as a Virginian who grew up with the Civil War, could rattle off casualty figures for various battles (both North and South), called people north of the Potomac, "Yankees," and who even went to a Robert E.
Since I'm reading this book several years after its writing, those political wars have only gotten nastier.
So the book now looks like something prophetic, except these days the new "Rebs" wave snake flags rather than the Stars & Bars.
Horwitz mostly runs with the Rebs (though usually dressed in blue), probably because that's where most of the re-enactors seem to head.
With the current political climate, the argument over the true representation of the Rebel Flag, and whether or not statues of Confederate leaders and generals should be showcased in Southern communities, this book demands to be read from any side of the argument, and hopefully by the end, either side will come out with a good understanding of their own opinions and the opinions of any opposing sides, further illuminating a war that seems to continue to divide us.Confederates in the Attic beings quite humorously and has sprinkles of comedy and odd circumstances peppered throughout.
In the late 1990’s author Tony Horowitz explored “the South” and its relationship with the Civil War. He starts with battle re-enactors and moves on to visit museums and historians.
He meets notables and everyday people, civil rights leaders and those active in keeping “southern culture” alive.Horowitz holds your attention throughout.
Horowitz regularly hears an outright hatred for Yankees, the federal government and denial (ignorance of) about slavery, Andersonville and the reasons for the war.The author being Jewish adds to a dimension as he notes the role of this minority in southern life; he meets those who spout conspiracy theories about Jews.
During the years he traveled abroad, events such as the Ken Burns PBS series had rekindled an interest in the Civil War. Horwitz own interest lay dormant since high school (he used to draw murals of Rebels in his attic).
It seems after Horwitz’s travels to the South to attend Save the Flag rallies, visit the Son’s and Daughters of the Confederacy, white supremacists, and after reenacting with a hard core rebel unit Horwitz decides his heart is with the Union after all.
There were also many good tidbits passed on about the civil war.
A good read, if one believes (or wants to believe) that Southern boogeymen, dressed in woolen uniforms, their archaic muskets gleaming in the sun, are waiting to launch a second "War for Southern Independence" against the sacred Union.
O.K., maybe that's a bit extreme.
But to deliberately seek out the most extreme members of a society, and then hold them up as representative of an entire population (in a book subtitled "Dispatches From the Unfinished Civil War," no less) is more than a bit irresponsible.
I still enjoyed reading it, and would recommend it (with some reservations).
Tony Horwitz explores this dichotomy and attempts to understand why the Civil War is still such a big deal in the New South by speaking to re-enactors, activists, Sons and Daughters of the Confederacy, and good ol' boys who will defiantly fly the rebel flag 'til they die.It would be easy to call names and take sides--shoot, the best way to start a fight anywhere in the South is to bring up the Confederate flag--but Horwitz manages to remain mostly unbiased, which must have taken a lot of self-control.
The Founders wrote in many compromises in the Constitution to protect the rights of southern plantation owners (of which they could include themselves, most of them.) David Blight (Race and Reunion) has noted that slaves by 1860 were worth about $3.5 billion, an enormous sum then and of course the southern plantation owners didn't want to give up their property.
Southern states, in their declarations of secession documents, said the reason for secession was their desire to protect slavery (see South Carolina and Georgia esp., which also makes reference to slaves as property and their constitutional right thereto).
Having read this at the same time as The Known World, there were points in the book where the juxtaposition of an intimate story of the horrors of slavery and a nonfiction book about a few people who downplay slavery's importance or even romanticize it was too awful to contemplate.
Sometimes, when the "Lost Cause" advocates and rebel flag proponents are talking about having pride in their ancestry, you can kind of see how that feeling would be meaningful to an often economically distressed people.
This is one of those books I finished and then went around for a month or two literally shaking people, while frothing at the mouth and screaming in their faces: "YOU HAVE TO @#$&ING READ THIS!
Horowitz sets up such a fun and absurd context with his reenactors, that he's able to blindside you with the magnitude and horror of events our country doesn't ever seem to have processed in a very normal way.
Of course, it's hard to say what this "normal" processing would look like even in theory, but this book shows us how the abnormal, actual version looks, on the ground.
It’s what he does.
And, he says, it’s a great ice-breaker.
Tony Horwitz, a New England Jew spent a year traversing the Confederate states seeking living history, myth, culture, prejudice, pride and anything else that came along from people who consider the past one hundred and thirty years as an intermission in the war of succession.
The book is full of them.
There is also a sense of sadness in the tone—not just because so much time is spent traipsing and reflecting Civil War cemeteries.
The book is very readable and parts fascinating.
Like the war, I was glad when it came to an end.
If he weren't such a good writer I probably would have put this down because he's a bit off-base about how hung up people in the South are with the War.After winning a Pulitzer for his journalism covering the wars in Bosnia and the Gulf, he returned home to seek out the stories of the war fought on this country's soil.I think the problem he has is one of selection bias.
While I see his point, I think these people are largely the minority.
This actually is rather enlightening. Makes a good book for teaching because of the use of viewpoint and history.
Ten years later, I saw similarities but also differences from the events of the the book.As for the contents of the work, Horwitz, I felt wrote a very sympathetic account of the people he encountered on his journey and their viewpoints on the history of the Confederacy and the Civil War, no matter how strange they might be.
On the other hand, he reaches no real conclusions and the book may be seen as a collection of articles on various people and events in the Southern U.S. and its history.
Horwitz outlines how the South's nostalgia for the Lost Cause shapes its people and its policies and the effects of having a country that remembers the war in so many different ways.
I gained a deeper understanding for why some people and communities hang on to their reenactments and their confederate statues and memorials (deeply relevant as Alabama's legislature debates a bill to preserve them) and it's disheartening to see that the country was dealing with the same cultural battles 20 years ago -- there's even a chapter about South Carolina debating whether to remove the Confederate flag from its Capitol building.
I wasn't sure about this book at first but ended up really enjoying it. The author travels the Southeast experiencing re-enactments of Civil War battles; sounds strange but the characters he comes in contact with are interesting to say the least. Tony's humor is nothing like Bill Bryson, where Bryson is condescending and mean-spirited, Tony allows you to see the humor in the situations and characters while still liking them and the author. Give this one a shot, chances are you'll end up liking it and looking for more of Tony's books.
This was a well researched book that takes readers through modern day civil war sites, cities, forts and battlegrounds.
The title doesn't quite fit the book; however,mainly because the main theme is not so much these southerners who want to fight the war all over again but how the history of this time period is reinvented to fit people's philosophies.
It is very clear that starting in the early 20th century when most of the veterans from that war were dying off, the south began turning the conflict into a mythical tale of southern glory.
Modern southerners all through the book used the language and somtimes exact quotes of the Civil Rights Movement to champion their cause.
A few years ago I spent a few months in Kennesaw, GA (including time on Kennesaw Mountain where Sherman got impatient and tried a less-than-successful frontal assault while chasing Johnston south toward Atlanta).
One quarter of the South's men fought in the War, compared to one tenth in the North.
And it was something that you shared with many of your neighbors.And if you're African American and living in the South, I can see where it would be hard to live with that, because it sure sounds like white folks would have preferred a win that would have continued slavery for an unknown number of years.
Consequently, their text books in U.S. History begin in the year 1877 thereby erasing an event central to their own history.
A retired Alabama high school teacher declared “No one really talks about true integration now.” Separateness is flourishing between the races wherein "Plessy vs Ferguson" is extended to everything and the hardening of these attitudes was the low point for Horwitz as well as for me.
Sadly, I foresee a time when students and teachers alike will adamantly proclaim “The Civil War never happened, it was just a MOVIE!!!!”
He looks at Southern pastimes, like the Stone Mountain Laser Show in Georgia, as well as the Andersonville POW Museum and examines them for their own attachment to the Civil War. The best thing about Hortwiz’s book is how easy it is to read and navigate.
At times, Horwitz can seem overly critical of the South and its attachment to the Civil War. While he is humorous and respectful at times, on other occasions Horwitz can come off as if he is mocking some of the traditions and antics of those he met on his travels.
(I would say the same about Peter Hessler except that Hessler is very funny.) We meet a wide variety of people in Horwitz's travels through the southeast U.S. and all were worth knowing.
I particularly liked chapter 5 (Kentucky: Dying for Dixie) and his treatment of the Michael Westerman murder.
Westerman came to epitomize what fit the point of view of very different groups of people, good and bad.
Horwitz also did a great job delving into people's feelings about race and confronting inconsistencies in their beliefs.
As I was growing up in rural southwest Missouri, I knew plenty of people who were obsessed with the Civil War. I've been to reenactments and I've seen plenty of Confederate flags waving in front of homes or stuck on bumpers.
Horwitz also talks to many black Americans about their thoughts on the Confederacy and the people who idolize it, bringing up the fact that even though some whites have no malicious intentions when they wave their Rebel flags, they can't control the implications that the symbols of the Confederacy have for other people.
Overall, I think Horwitz did a fantastic job exploring the Confederate subculture in America and how the War still affects us, 150 year later.
As I try to think of how to write a review of this, I'm staring at the copy of the book that I checked out from the library.
It is hard not to consider your own position and views on race and society when reading this book.
This book takes you out of your comfort zone, and makes you look at the Civil War, how we remember it, and the current (well, as of 1997) state of race relations in this country.
I can only imagine what he'd write today.
This is going to be on my list of favorite books of the year, I can almost guarantee it.
I marked it read and I guess that's true. It's as read as it's going to get. I really did NOT like this book. I don't mind a little bias (being from the South, I have become accustomed to it at least a little) but it's tedious. Ick.
The author is both Jewish and obsessed with the Civil War. He treks through the South looking for Southern attitudes about race and the ar, but also people who are similarly obsessed with the war who are not racist.
His favorite city was Atlanta which in his opinion did the best job of integrating memorials to the Confederacy with more contemporaneous memorials to prominent black and white artists and other celebrities.A really thoughtful book.
Having read this I understand so much more clearly the decision made by so many Americans on 08/11/16, inexplicable as it may seem too many of us on this side of the Atlantic.
To then try and recreate or memorialise that time seems perverse to say the least.
From the final chapters on the authors time in Selma it certainly doesn't read as if things have hugely improved, the conversations from the campus' are quite disheartening.I freely admit that my own nations (Great Britain) history is probably one of the most blood soaked in history, but I certainly don't know of any re-enactment societies trying to recreate the most "glamorous" days of the British Empire.
