https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23995231-circling-the-sun
Paula McLain's latest novel, narrating the life and times of pioneering aviator and horse racer Beryl Markham, is labeled as historical fiction that transports readers "to colonial Kenya in the 1920s." With that kind of a sales pitch, you'd expect at least a halfway realistic portrait of the manners and social conditions of the times, with more than one token black character thrown in.
Yet, Circling the Sun is all about white colonialists and their self-enclosed world on their plantations in the East African Protectorate, where the natives are hardly more than an exotic backdrop for the adventures and love affairs of a British floozy.
But I really wish I could - so I could give a little sense into how lush and descriptive the writing is that makes you feel as if you are standing there on that farm in Kenya , or can feel what Beryl is feeling and convince people that they should read this book .Abandoned as a young girl by her mother who leaves Beryl and her father to return to England, Beryl forms a bond with her father and begins a life long love affair with Kenya .
It is an exquisite story of Beryl Markham who grew up on the plains of Africa to become a legendary 1st woman horse trainer and later, a pilot.
It's her path to self discovery through the disastrous relationships and love entanglements that define whom she became.
I loved her character, her passion, her honesty and her courage.
Truly a time when such feminism was resisted and discouraged.I adore novels set in Africa and during this time period circa 1920's and 30's.
This is such a rich and captivating story that I will relish reading the next McLain novel.
Paula McLain’s writing is so vivid and cinematic, I felt I was right in the story rather than reading it.
In this book, a fictional biography of Beryl Markham, I could play alongside Beryl and her young companions, be involved in training horses alongside Beryl, and fly the Atlantic from England to the East coast of North America.
I could feel a yearning for Africa, her vast spaces, Technicolor sunsets and stars that seemed like “they wanted to perch on my shoulders”.Beryl Markham led an extraordinary life and Paula McLain’s writing captures it all, serving it with the flourish of a master chef.
Paula McLain's fictionalization of the early part of Beryl Markham's life completely engrossed me.
I knew nothing about Beryl Markham before reading Circling the Sun, but as told by McLaim she is a fascinating woman who grew up very unconventionally in early 20th century Kenya as the white daughter of a horse ranch owner.
Who knows if it's an accurate depiction, but Beryl felt real, multidimensional and -- although struggling against the norms -- grounded in her historical context.
Highly recommended to anyone who likes strong historical female figures and/or an interest in 20th century colonial Africa.
Circling The Sun caught my eye with its beautiful cover, first and foremost. I had this book for so long now, never got to it. It was time.Oh the chain of events. Or sometimes also called fate or destiny, right? I first read about Beryl Markham in    Almost Famous Women   : Stories by Megan Mayhew Bergman. Beryl Markham piqued my interest then, especially when this remarkable women wrote an autobiography,  West With The Night, which had Ernst Hemingway glowing from head to toe.In 1925 Ernest Hem
"Did you read Beryl Markham's book, West with the Night?
After reading Circling The Sun a fictional biography of Beryl Markham(born Clutterbuck), I understood why Hemingway did this.
The author borrowed characters from Out of Africa by Isak Dinesen, Karen Blixen, to populate Beryl's story and establish the connection between Karin Blixen and Beryl: Denys Finch Hatton, Lord Delamere, Berkeley Cole, Karin Blixen and her husband baron van Blixen, and a few more.
I will have to read  West With The Night by Beryl Markham herself.
Until I was about to read "Circling the Sun", all I knew about Beryl Markham was of her record breaking voyage across the Atlantic, in 1936, ....Her extraordinary accomplishment.
I'm reminded that a person's accomplishments -and character are not always of equal measure.
Beryl Markham was a complicated female -during times when being a complicated female was complicated!
I asked myself --was Beryl a woman to admire?
I'll tell you one thing, I'm a little mad at the author --Her book had me reading all night long!!
And..now I want to know a little more about this woman's character!
Darn -this author --for writing a captivating book!
At age four, her mother left the family to return to England, and Markham grew up with a lot of self-reliance, learning to do hard farm work and playing mostly with Masai tribal children.
The achievement was less about creating the “real” Markham and more about midwifing an imagination of how someone like her could emerge as a special product of this place and time, with seminal influences from family and friends.
Maybe this book doesn’t help me know the real Beryl Markham, but I am happy with a potent version of someone very much like her.
I’ll respect that and actually must, as you’ll discover if you read the rest of my comments.The Sinker – My sincere thanks to Ballantine Books for providing the e-galley of Circling the Sun. Procrastination found me 30+ pages from the end when my copy expired.
I was hooked by Circling the Sun right from its first pages with Beryl (now Markham) getting ready for her transatlantic flight.
No matter that I didn’t quite finish Circling the Sun. I know a good book when I read one.
The first time I read about Beryl Markham was in a short story collection, Almost Famous Women: Stories.
This book was nothing short of amazing.
The descriptions of Africa and Beryl's love for her native Kenya definitely shone throughout this novel.Her love for Denis, Fitch Hatton was heartbreaking.Her struggle not to conform, to be what others thought she should be led her to accomplish so much by the age of twenty eight, even though she went through many heartbreaks and start overs in the meantime.
Her writing, her descriptions, her characterizations are amazing.
Supposed to be the life and times of Beryl Markham, adventuress extraordinaire, the book reduced it to the horses and love affairs of Beryl Markham, prize idiot.
Once that was done, Denys Finch-Hatton makes an appearance and the most boring love triangle in the history of romance takes place between Denys Finch-Hatton, Beryl Markham and Karen Blixen.
Denys is an asshole who hunts animals and considers Africa "his", goes around having affairs and claims he is a "free spirit".
Beryl is impressed with Denys' stupid interest in poetry and slept with him a few times, and goes about thinking there is a "special connection" between the three of them.
And I was fortunate to snag both an ebook from NetGalley, and an ARC from LibraryThings, of which I alternated reading and quite enjoyed the experience.If you saw the Streep/Redford movie, you may recall Felicity riding in on a horse occasionally.
Beryl is just a wonderfully unique character, having grown up on her father's farm in Kenya after her mother decided to take herself back to England.
With abandonment issues, now from her father as well, Beryl finds that horses and other men respond well to her.
The more I read this wonderful book, the more I fell in love with it.

I have not read “The Paris Wife,” so I had no idea what to expect with Paula McLain but I was delighted to find that she was up to the task and crafted a credible, well-written and gripping account of the early life of Beryl Markham.I had never heard of Beryl Markham.
One of the stories in Bergman’s book, “A High Grade Bitch Sits Down For Lunch,” is about Beryl Markham and her training of the wild and dangerous horse, “Messenger Boy,” which was covered in “Circling the Sun.” The reference to her being a “high grade bitch” is a quote from Ernest Hemingway in reference to Markham’s 1942 book, “West With the Night:” "Did you read Beryl Markham's book, West with the Night?
I loved this book!
Beryl Markham was a very strong, independent woman.
I plan to read more about her.
I felt sad about her relationships and that she struggled in that area of her life.
What an amazing life she lived though.The writing in this book is lovely."If it was a very long night, and sleep didn't come at all, I would let every guard down and think of Denys.
Perhaps he was sloped in one of Karen's low leather chairs by the millstone table, reading Walt Whitman and listening to some new recording on the gramophone.
I am so happy to say that I thoroughly enjoyed this novel.
The characters were richly written and as unpredictable as the African landscape they lived in.
Beryl Markham was sixteen years old when she was thrown into a social climate that turned out to be harsher than the hot African heat and wilder than the horses she loved to train.
She made many bad decisions for which she paid a high price, but through it all she never gave up on herself.
After finishing, an hour Googling images of Beryl, Karen and Denysin really added to my enjoyment of this...
The descriptions of Africa just stunning and what I enjoyed the most.
I kept picturing the cinematography and hearing the musical score from Out Of Africa which enhanced my enjoyment of this book.
I had to slow down my reading pace towards the end as I was racing to the finish wanting to move on from all the personal romantic entanglements and horse racing and get back to where the book started, her flying.
I was disappointed that part of her life ended up playing such a minor roll.
Overall an entertaining story with gorgeous descriptive writing.
I love the movie Out of Africa and it was a great pleasure to read about Beryl Markham and get another insight into the lives of Karen Blixen and Denys Finch Hatton and, of course, get an insight on Beryl herself.
And, the love of her life was she sharing with another woman and their time together was cut short.I had a hard time reading the ending because I knew how it would end for her and Denys.
I loved Beryl and Denys together, but at the same time, I felt that they were betraying Karen.
(Nearly 4.5) This is just as good as  The Paris Wife  – if not better. I didn’t think I was very interested in aviatrix Beryl Markham, but McLain proved me wrong. What a life story, and what terrific storytelling to do it justice. Before she ever thought of flying solo across the Atlantic, she was just Beryl Clutterbuck, raised in Kenya by her father in the 1900s–10s. She became one of Africa’s first female horse trainers, and its first professional female pilot. McLain describes her African set
(Nearly 4.5) This is just as good as 
I didn’t think I was very interested in aviatrix Beryl Markham, but McLain proved me wrong.
What a life story, and what terrific storytelling to do it justice.
Before she ever thought of flying solo across the Atlantic, she was just Beryl Clutterbuck, raised in Kenya by her father in the 1900s–10s.
McLain describes her African settings beautifully, and a delicious love triangle between her, Karen Blixen (Isak Dinesen) and Denys Finch Hatton forms the kernel of the book.(See my full review at BookTrib.)Related reading: There’s a (very) short story about Beryl Markham in 
Having been partially raised by an African tribe, married off at age 16 when her father's business venture goes belly up, and becoming one-third of a scandalous love triangle between Karen Blitzen and Denys Finch Hatten, two people who will later co-author the classic memoir Out Of Africa , she flourishes against all odds.
Combining breathtaking descriptions of the African terrain , the subtle and not no subtle nuances of social convention at the time, and Beryl's great love of horsemanship and later aviation, she has written a novel that serves to remind one why they love to read.
I've ordered Beryl's memoir West With The Night and look forward to reading the story of her life in her own words.
Miss Liberty MarkhamBiografia romanceada de Beryl Markham, uma mulher que viveu muito à frente do seu tempo e que vale a pena conhecer de perto.Um percurso inspirador , 200% ditado pela Voz da Liberdade!
I LIKE my three star books.
There is an epilogue where the author reveals that she too was separated from her mother at an early age, just as Beryl here.
I felt Beryl's and Karen Blixen's love for Kenyan soil - the land, the vistas, the air, the fauna.
The book essentially stops (view spoiler)[when the love of her life is killed in a plane crash (hide spoiler)].
It starts off with Beryl (Clutterbuck)Markham's solo flight over the Atlantic in 1936.
You immediately sense the child's personality being molded by the desertion of her mother, the determination and will of her father and the native Kenyans.
Loved this book, loved the story, love this author. This was a wonderful story about a character that i knew little about and so was very interesting to learn about her life. Although it's Historical Fiction, you know that these things did happen to her that they were real experiences. Beryl is an admirable woman and I really enjoyed reading about her. i love this author's writing style. Also read The Paris Wife and will continue to read her books.
I wanted to read this because I loved The Paris Wife and so I was curious about what other stories McLain could weave about interesting women in history.
The thing I am learning about McLain is that she is a really talented writer and that counts for a lot.Circling the Sun is about Beryl Markham, horse trainer and aviator.
As much as Beryl had a love for horses, airplanes and a man or two, she also had a love affair with the land of Kenya.
She was a person who achieved things and believed in herself, but also felt the pain of love and life.P.S. I love the first photo of Beryl.
She was also the first woman pilot to cross the Atlantic from east to west.This fictional telling of Markham's life goes deeply into her childhood, her first two failed marriages, and her relationship with Denys Finch Hatton.
Both Markham and Karen Blixen (author of Out of Africa) were deeply attracted to the same man, but he was a free spirit who would not be tied down to anyone.Circling the Sun is a vivid look at a talented woman who was not willing to follow the rules.
Markham's personality was beautifully depicted as an independent woman who also had a vulnerable side.
I had the pleasure of reading Paula McLain's first novel The Paris Wife and liked it.
When everything comes together, good characters, good writing, interesting plot with a good setting, it's makes for, in this case, a fun to read, and a national bestseller.Beryl Markham was a very complicated woman.
McLain portrays her as a dashing, romantic heroine that may be a little over the top, but it makes for good reading.
That's interesting because in Blixen's award winning memoir Out of Africa, she fails to mention Markham's name, I'm sure intentionally.A very entertaining read, better than The Paris Wife in my opinion.
The main focus of this book, Beryl Markham, would have overwhelmed and intimidated poor Hadley Richardson had they ever met.
Mind you, Beryl might have also stopped Hadley from pining over Hemingway a lot quicker than she did.
I had never heard of Beryl Markham before reading this book, but I had heard about Karen Blixen and the movie Out of Africa.
I felt that McLain presents a strong-willed female protagonist that obviously had her share of triumphs and tragedies.
I felt the book was highly readable and would certainly recommend it to others.
After reading Circling The Sun, I am sure of it.Here she takes on the lesser known character in the Karen Blixen-Denys Fitch Hatton-Beryl Markham triangle.
What was less known is that he equally loved Beryl, the self-sufficient and wild-spirited daughter of a failed racehorse trainer.“Africa is the cure, then, the opposite of being boxed in.
Or her several marriages of convenience while loving the unattainable Denys.) Self-absorbed people can often be fun to be around…until they aren’t anymore.Since the story is told in the first person, there is sometimes a lack of insight in her telling – never more so than when Beryl marries Mansfield Markham.
If I hadn’t loved McLain’s THE PARIS WIFE, I still would have picked up CIRCLING THE SUN based on the cover alone: so warm it glows with the heat of the African sun, moody with the distant silhouette of the acacia tree, and the brooding woman with bobbed hair wearing slacks and riding boots when women didn’t typically wear slacks.
It tells the tale of a little known corner of history in beautiful, vivid prose that not only enlivens the period, but will send the reader searching for more information on the people and places depicted in its pages.Like Hadley Hemingway in THE PARIS WIFE, the protagonist of CIRCLING THE SUN, Beryl Markham, is a complicated woman.
I could do anything, for I was in heaven still."At an early age, Beryl Clutterbuck, a free spirit, had learned a valuable trade upon her father's horse farm.
Upon entering the early stage of adulthood, Beryl had come to train many a horse into a celebrated champion.
From there, her marriage, her life - all went downhill.To complicate matters, her son was in frail condition and needed continual medical care.
It was the worst of times.Not one to throw in the towel, Beryl persevered and became proficient at flying her beloved biplane.
