https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86663.Ten_Big_Ones
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to Ten Big Ones, the 10th book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 2004 by Janet Evanovich. We've hit double digits in the books, and with it, Evanovich brings double the laughter, which was already in overdrive. We meet Sally Sweet in this book, a cross-dresser with so much to say! Hilarious. Just over the top. But so is Stephanie, as she's going to be killed by the mob. She's gotten a little too big for her britches, as they say, by now in he
Book Review
4 out of 5 stars to Ten Big Ones, the 10th book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 2004 by Janet Evanovich.
We've hit double digits in the books, and with it, Evanovich brings double the laughter, which was already in overdrive.
They know she usually, in some weird way, gets her perp.
And when the mob is involved, you know the hits will keep on coming.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Leave a comment and let me know what you think.
"I don't get it," Morelli said. "Other women are happy to stay home. My sister stays home. My brothers' wives stay home. My mother stays home. My grandmother stays home.""Your grandmother is insane.""You're right. My grandmother doesn't count." First of all, Morelli sounds like Stephanie's mother right now. Secondly, he's kind of right. Stephanie has a gang after her and they have a hired hitman coming in to kill her. It does seem like a good time to maybe stay safe, catch up on some reading or
My mother stays home.
My grandmother stays home.""Your grandmother is insane.""You're right.
First of all, Morelli sounds like Stephanie's mother right now.
It does seem like a good time to maybe stay safe, catch up on some reading or something.
The good news is, Stephanie ends up hiding out at the Bat Cave (Ranger's place).
She lives with Morelli, but kisses Ranger anytime she wants?
Arrange his own funeral and such.That would work...Here's what I would like to see happen: Morelli meets another woman and marries her.
Stephanie finds out that Ranger is actually married to a beautiful supermodel.
I'm a hardcore Morelli/Steph fan (who can appreciate Ranger but doesn't want Ranger with Steph for many reasons) and am getting a little tired of the walking out on Morelli because they disagree.
I'd love to see Morelli finally get tired of the whole thing and date someone else, forcing Steph to realize what the hell she wants.In terms of this particular book, I was getting a little frustrated with Steph's behavior with Ranger regardless of how sexy it may have been.
Buy a bottle yourself and go over to Joe's.
This one is worth reading for the batcave alone. Seriously. Stephanie breaks into Rangers apartment and hides out there to keep safe from the gang that has targeted her. It breaks down the mystery of Ranger in a lot of ways - and yet not. He becomes less phantom and more Man in this book - which is welcome. I think his becoming more real makes his a bigger threat to Morelli and Stephanie's relationship.
These books get better and better.
Who doesn't love Stephanie?
I like how she doesn't really choose between Joe and Ranger.
She chooses herself instead and doesn't let them boss her around.
They are just along for Her ride through life.
"Dudes, either get on or get off, but I'm driving".
These are good lessons for young girls.
Be strong, fight hard, and do your best at whatever job you doReread May 2018–Still loving this book!
Steph makes her way into the bat cave.
Meanwhile street gangs are hunting for her.
But the best part is who saves her life in the end.
You should not operate a treadmill while reading Janet Evanovich’s Stephanie Plum books.Why, do you ask?
I’ve been reading so much blood gore and paranormal romance, that my mind was in desperate need for funny.This book centered around Stephanie Plum (duh, right?) and her knack for stumbling into dangerous situations.
And two extremely sexy men to fantasize over.Hiding from gang members and some psycho badass, Stephanie finds herself living with Ranger, only he doesn’t know it yet.
Sexual tension much?Stephanie is a hilariously gorgeous woman with a sidekick that rocks.
I love Stephanie Plum, Bounty Hunter. And I love how Janet Evanovich makes me laugh while I’m reading all her books. This one was no different. Really fun stuff, even amid the gunfire and craziness.
First book started in mid-90's and I think this one is still in the 90's even though cell phones, GPS, and airport security sound more like the current century.
Plus she's already in her 30's, so it just feels like 10 books in- she should have matured some!
But it doesn't feel like she's grown at all, not even a tiny bit.It was fun while it lasted.
I don't think I'd enjoy reading 8 more books- which are left in the series- w/out some major change up.Another reviewer mentioned that this series is starting to feel like a sitcom that's jumped the shark.
I imagine James Franco as Morelli...
A big part of what I don't like about this series is the fact that Steph STILL can't make up her damned mind between Morelli and Ranger.
I mean, sure, she ends up stuck in the house and bored out of her brain because a psychopath wants to kill her.
If any sane person had a psychopath wanting to kill them, they'd be all "Yeah, I'm totally going to stay in the house forever and ever, thank you very much" and not be all "Ugh, this is the worst I need to go to the mall now".
I know people love these books, but I just don't get it apparently.I keep listening to these because I got them all from the library and it's the only thing I have while I'm cleaning and working on Christmas presents, but I have to say that with every book, I get more annoyed with Stephanie Plum.
And if she wants to have a hot, sweaty time with him, go for it.
I mean the fact is that while the one time in series that her and Ranger actually had sex, she was broken up with Joe, fine.
Of course if Joe had had sex with someone else, she'd pitch a fit and end it for good, but the fact is even when she's dating Joe, she's kissing Ranger.
I love Stephanie Plum and I love Janet Evanovich's writing, but after reading nine and ten after each other, I got a bit annoyed.
And while I usually love the Steph/Morelli/Ranger dynamic, I kept getting annoyed at Stephanie during Ten Big Ones.
Let's be honest, Ranger is never going to win the love triangle, and it annoys me that Stephanie leads him on.
JUST PICK MORELLI AND GET OVER RANGER.I'm also surprised that after 10 books, Stephanie does not know better when it comes to people trying to kill her.
You'd think after 9 other books in this series, the charades would get old.
If half of the things that happen to Stephanie would occur to another character in another book, it would get an eye roll from every reader.
When they happen to Stephanie there is no doubt of its plausibility.
It's also another great web that Evanovich has tangled the "Love Trio" in.
This is another great book in the series.
If anyone is not reading these, you need to seriously start.
Maybe set aside the peculiars and dystopians for a bit and start to chuckle.
New year, time to get healthy, but much like Stephanie Plum, my running skills need some work.
And running ain't it.Every time I start a Stephanie Plum novel, I know I'm guaranteed a laugh, and this one was no exception.
Evanovich's novels are like brain candy and essentially, that's what keeps me running back for more.
The only thing complicated about Plum novels, and even that's stretching it, is Stephanie's love life.
Just like Stephanie depends on the 'Burg and the Buick to never fail her, I depend on Evanovich to never fail me in laughs, quirky characters, and fast-paced and goofy mysteries.
For those that haven't gotten my 50 positive reviews for these books at the same time: Laugh out loud funny, a real treat.
Between painting EVERY wall in the place and staying up late reading these books, I was sore all over and tired, but I had a great time doing it.This book finds Stephanie losing yet another car to a fire bombing incident...
what better place to do that then teh "Bat Cave" AKA - Ranger's apartment.
Stephanie tracks it down and breaks in while Ranger is out of town and we get to hang out in his space while he is away...
This is the tenth installment (obviously) of Stephanie Plum's misadventures.
Although, I like this series, I'm becoming increasingly irritated with Stephanie.
Well first I will have to say I'm on Team Morelli and I want her to grow up and stop acting like a child.
Joe wants her to settle down with him and for her to get a less dangerous job--or none at all.
I like Ranger a lot, and I agree he is way sexy.
I just don't want him with Stephanie.
What is she doing saying she's pretty sure she loves Joe, yet she kisses Ranger every other week?
Couldn't bring myself to finish this book, the first book I've given up on in years. The plots and characters have became almost identical. Maybe as a stand alone novel it would be fine but as part of a series there doesn't appear to be anything to distinguish this book from the rest. Same jokes, same plot, same everything, the book feels like all the others just recycled. Disappointed.
I liked this one too. Not as much laughing, but more suspense. I was glad for a reappearance of Sally. I liked the characters and some of the FTAs. The ending was great, perfect and a complete surprise. Whooo hooo! The Bat Cave! I liked the hideout and it's feelings. Poor Hal. :) Ranger is looking better and better. Joe is looking worse and worse. I hope Steph gets it figured out. Enjoy!
Always worth a good laugh. Steamy in parts too.
The Stephanie Plum series Ten Big Ones is another entertaining book.
The trouble, her band of back up, and the triangle between Ranger, Steph, and Joe. I mean really in her position I would probably do the same things.
Her sister is getting married, Sally Sweet makes a return appearance (which excites me because I really like his character), Steph yet again loses another car and Ranger comes to the rescue.
Ten big ones, Stephanie, Lula, and Connie band together to get answers from a gang member they bonded out of jail.
She usually knows the danger she's in and is admitting it until Joe makes a demand that sends her usually into more trouble.
The mob although a threat, seemed safer because the Mob is an organized entity of crime, they don't randomly kill people, it's more methodical..this story added in the element of gangs.
Ranger is missing for most of the book, but his presence is still felt.
Stephanie is able to find what she things is his bat cave and stay there until it's safe to come out of her impending danger.
The read was intense and full of action, until the end, where I felt it fell a little flat and rushed.
I don't like that not only does she continue to put herself in dangerous situations but she does it with other people.This book was very serious in threat and yet she's still driving around with grandma mauzer, lula, going places and not listening to Joe when really?
I hope it's not a habit and it was a fluke with this book.Lastly, this is going to sound kind of stupid but I'm really getting a bit sick of the fade to black.
This book has never really been a porn fest but at least the sex scenes were discussed and now it's all fade to black.
Ten books into the series and it still makes me laugh out loud. Snap (an insider joke for anyone who has read this). I listen to the audiobook and find the narrator very entertaining.
If you want a good beach read that doesn't require much brain use and will make you laugh, this is the perfect series for that.
Also, the ending felt completely contrived and slightly ridiculous even by this series' standards.
I am starting to wonder if perhaps I need to stop reading these books altogether.
The characters and the humor are what really sell this series, though, but the characters are starting to annoy me and the humor is just getting tired.
This one was a huge disappointment in a series that I used to look forward to reading.
Stephanie Plum is wanted by a gang in “Big Ten Ones.” When Stephanie and Lula witness a robbery, Stephanie gets a good look at the suspect.
With Ranger out of town, she hides out in his apartment, but it’s only a matter of time before the gang catches up to her – at her sister’s wedding shower.
Can Stephanie outwit the Slayers with Ranger and Morelli’s help?Evanovich’s writing is crisp and witty.
She finds a good balance between the adventure of Stephanie’s run-ins with the Slayer gang and her family life as Valerie, her sister, plans to get married.The supporting cast is as strong as ever.
The one thing that pushed the book past mediocrity was the ending.
Probably the best ending of the first ten books.Stephanie leaves Morelli (yet again).
In fact, Stephanie seems to be trying to keep herself out of danger this time around.
She's not as bumbling as usual and it's about time.
She's still not great at her job, but at least she seems slightly less likely to be killed.Lots of Ranger, though only a little Ranger action - in both senses of the word.
Ranger actually starts to seem like a real live person in Ten Big Ones, rather than super hot, action-figure Ranger.
Just listened to this as an audio book that I got from a BookCrossing CD Book Box.I'm a relative latecomer to actually reading the Plum books.
Then Bumma, our own dear live-in grandma (who was more likely to tote a book than a gun, but still could confabulate even the strongest of minds) got breast cancer and I could only read light stuff.
I began listening to some of the later Plum books (higher numbers) on audio, and found them a good diversion.
I'd rather save my actual reading time for a somewhat deeper book, but listening to these while driving is fine.
Stephanie Plum, a Trenton, N.J., bounty hunter, accompanied by her trigger-happy friend Lula, an errant file clerk, is after a quirky collection of bail-jumpers—a man who killed a neighbor's rosebushes relieving himself on them, a drag queen musician/school bus driver accused of assault, and a woman who claims she robbed a Frito-Lay truck because she hated her low-carb diet—when she witnesses a convenience store robbery.
After she tells her colleague Ranger her predicament, he offers her sanctuary.
As usual, she's torn between sexy Ranger and her longtime lover, cop Joe Morelli, with whom she's living.
I've loved all the others up to this one and will continue on with the series but this one seemed tedious.
There was enough humor and unusual antics that we all love about Stephanie.
But the love triangle thing is getting old.
Stephanie is in her 30's, it's about time she stop acting like a lust- struck teenager every time she sees or thinks about Ranger.
Ranger's cool, but he's obviously not long term commitment material.
I'm ready for Stephanie to do some growing up.
These books are beginning to annoy me. I thought they were amusing, at first, but Stephanie's antics and internal dialog are just too corny for my tastes. Also, a lot of it is getting repetitive. There are only so many mental head slaps I can deal with. I don't know if I am going to continue to read this series. It could be that I am annoyed by the voices Loreli King performs on the audio book version. Why does Grandma Mazur sound like the Wicked Witch of the West and Ranger sound like Tony Montana?
