https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24019.The_New_Best_Recipe
The chefs behind these recipes have tried everything possible - wondering how to make the best pot roast?
They tried every cut of meat imaginable, cooked in every way possible, to arrive at the very best results, then share that recipe with you.
If you're a real foodie you can read about their experimentation - but if you just need the right recipe pronto, then skip the explanation and start cooking, assured that you'll have a wonderful result.I've taken to giving this cookbook as a wedding present - it's a great book to get anyone cooking great!
This book has great, solid, totally doable recipes (even for a person with a more frugal than gourmet budget), and I totally geek out on their scientific-method-style approach.
I have to say, though, that the introductions to their recipes consistently amuse me.
Almost all follow this format where they say "every version we could find of this item was insipid and embarrassing, with undesirable flavors and a texture no one could enjoy.
We set out to see if we could salvage the reputation of this undeservedly wronged food." If every version you could find was so tragic, what made you want to make the dish in the first place?
"Man, this food is ass!
I love this book! I look here first when dealing with cuts of meat I haven't cooked before. It also helps me decide how I want my animals butchered (I buy whole or half animals from local ranches)--it can be daunting to sort through all the different options. I have used many, many recipes from here and expect to use many more in the future. I get top-notch results and feel confident that my time in the kitchen will be well-spent if following a recipe I found here.
Then I started reading it and getting excited: I LOVE that someone has already done the work that a good cook would do.
The reason great cooks are great cooks is that they try recipes, tweak them, try again, till they arrive at THE best recipe for something.
They do a nice job of telling the "story" of each recipe; how they adjusted, tweaked and arrived at the recipe they're posting.
It would be great if there were photographs of the various recipes, but I suppose that would make the price quite a bit higher - and photos aren't something you actually need - so I'll keep the five star rating set on this one.
I think that there could be more recipes in the book, given how huge it is, but that isn't really the book's agenda.
The authors have tested several versions of the recipes to determine what techniques and ingredients produce the best results.
I had no idea that you should cover fried eggs while they cook so that the tops will steam-cook.
Nor did I know how superior oven-fried bacon can be to the normal pan-frying.
Of course, I haven't tried every recipe out yet, but it's nice to have this kind of guidance for a beginning cook.I got mine at Costco for pretty cheap last year, I think.
And they've been perfect ever since.I love waffles, but I've never been able to make them well.
When I tried the recipe in this book, they came out Perfect.
When I tried the recipe in this book, they came out Perfect.
And they've been perfect ever since.I love mashed sweet potatoes, but I've never been able to make them well.
When I tried...well, you get the idea.If you've ever cooked something, and it came out great, then you cooked it again, the same way, you swear you did it exactly the same, but it flopped: this book is for you.
Although I would much rather call Berit to ask her what I should do with ____________? I find myself often referencing this very large compendium of almost everything I like to eat. It may even replace Betty the Crock as my go to cookbook. I wonder what my mother will say?
This book has yet to let me down. I have made countless recipes from this book, each one with clear cut instructions and detail. It is my "go to" book. I shouldn't have been surprised, in my experience, everything Cooks Illustrated has put out has been of good quality.
When the folks at Cook's Illustrated say "exhaustively tested," they mean exhaustively tested. Each recipe in here has been deemed the best and so far, I can't disagree. A good, basic, bare bones cookbook, it is a great launching-off point for any cook - beginner or otherwise.
I've yet to go wrong with anything from this one. The Chicken Marsala is particularly well-received by my audience.
This book is filled with useful information!
This is a great cookbook. Everything I have tried not only came out looking great but had great reviews! It is much more realistic on time required, etc. It is now my favorite cooibook.
My staple cookbook. Love it. Great pie crust recipe.
This was a bit to heavy on the background and too light on the tips. For example, the book would say something like we tried boiling and it lost all of its flavor, then we steamed and that was pretty good but then we roasted and that was great. Imagine that with 10 times as many words for each recipe and you've got the idea. Just tell me that the veggie tasted crisper roasted! In short, there are very many good ideas here but the verbosity and organization make them hard to find.
If you want to dive into how a dish should be cooked, this is the book. Every once in a while you want to dig down and learn more about the dish, this is your book Cook’s Illustrated has to be the best.
5 stars- Ms. Jenn
I have checked this book out of the library twice and been disappointed twice. The recipes are a lot of work and the results are just ok.
This book will definitely amaze the ones who love cooking! This book includes a variety of recipes, such as desserts, main courses and starters, which are all tested and amended by the authors in order to come up with the best taste. The recipes are simple and easy to follow as it has clear procedures along with pictures to describe. This book is suitable for everyone who likes to cook, even if they are a newbie to cooking, so I really recommend this book.
We did." Every recipe is preceded by a short essay about the potential problems of the dish and the experiments the authors did to solve them.
We experimented with various amounts of oats...
I haven't yet made a bad dish from this book.There are also helpful illustrations accompanying the recipes, giving tips for things like how to peel a kiwi or give a frosted cake a glossy look.
All in all, though, this is a book I come back to again and again, and I know it will serve me well for my entire cooking life!
The New Best Recipe is a compilation of many volumes of Cook's Illustrated.
I much prefer the Cook's Illustrated style, because they (mostly) explain the reasons behind their recipes and suggestions (or, if they're being arbitrary, then they're up-front about it).I have only one major complaint about the book: it's size and binding make the book awkward in the kitchen.
Also, I bought The New Best Recipe before I subscribed to Cook's Illustrated online, which duplicates this book while adding new content continuously.
Though it's more expensive in the long run ($25/year), I would still recommend getting an online subscription (at www.cooksillustrated.com) over purchasing this book or any of the other Cook's Illustrated publications.
Anyone who knows me knows that I am NOT a fancy cook.
The recipes come out great every time, so I have confidence that I can pull off the meal or dessert without fear of having to order pizza or stop at Kroger!
I wish they'd have broken them out into smaller baby steps for those of us who don't read ahead well while cooking!
The recipes are solid, but some of them do take a long time/advance planning, so it's not always a great pick for me on weeknights.I highly recommend the Eggplant Parmesan and double chocolate chip cookies (though perhaps not together!).
If you are interested in building a foundation of basic cooking methods, an arsenal of simple everyday recipes, and in learning the hows/whys and the science of food, it will serve you well.
(Though I still jones for things like Madhur Jaffrey's simple indian recipes)This cookbook is put together by the people at Cook's Illustrated Magazine and America's Test Kitchen.
Each recipe has been reworked with different methods and ingredients until the best and easiest result is acheived.
And as in the magazine, each recipe is prefaced by an essay which details the recipe building process, and tells it like a story.
You think I'm kidding, but really, good things take time, and it's one of CI's tenets of wisdom.Example: Chocolate chip cookies, and the act of rolling them into a ball, dividing them, then turning them divided side up before combining on the bottom and placing on your cookie sheet.
Sounds crazy but there is a rhyme AND reason for stuff like that...and now my co-workers want me to give them my "secret" chocolate chip cookie recipe.
Whether you need to impress your boss, the President of the United States or the hawt guy/chick you've invited over for dinner, this book won't steer you wrong.Just make sure you have enough time to do the recipe.
If you want to know the answers to why...this is the cookbook for you.
It is the science and alchemy of cooking.
Why does poultry breast meat dry out, but thighs are under cooked?
Do YOU know about a gland in a leg of lamb that should be removed before roasting?
If you haven't any creative talents in the kitchen, true, this book may not be for you.
But if you want someone to help you pull the canvas taut, recommend the best brushes, and widen your palette, you have found the source.
This book is a great foundation for your art.
The New Best Recipe, by Cook's Illustrated's editors, is like an American version of Julia Child's, Mastering the Art of French Cooking.
Both are awesome references, but I love all the latest technology, science and diversity of recipes in Cook's book.
A quote from the inside flap of the book reads, “The new edition of the best recipes from Cook’s Illustrated….will please those who groove to the cooking geek sensibility of the CI editor Christopher Kimball” (People Magazine) I thank my good friend, The Baking Chemist for this recommendation.
With Joy (hahaha) ….one groovin’ cookin’ geek.
One of those "if you only own 1 cookbook" kinds of books -- the folks at Cooks Illustrated and PBS's America's Test Kitchen try out hundreds of variations on classic and newer recipes to figure out the 'best' way to make something so you don't have to experiment.
Many of my family and friends' faves are ones from this book, or variations it offers.
It's truly a kitchen reference book, something I turn to when I want to make sure I get something right, or want to try something new and not worry if it will come out ok.
The test kitchen at Cooks Illustrated spends an infinite amount of time testing and re-imagining recipes in order to create the definitive "best" way to make anything.
Once in a while, I do find that while an approach to a recipe is no-doubt excellent, it may be a bit too complex in execution for an everyday cook like me.
So there are times where I will simplify to suit my own convenience.
Still that is not often an issue, and over the long time I have used this book, there is no other single resource I feel as confident in recommending.
I cook a lot, and own several cookbooks.
I would highly recommend this to a person just setting up house as a "first cookbook", and also to experienced cooks.
Every recipe is very clear and easy to understand.
One of the things I like BEST about this is that it gives you the REASON for performing a certain action, and I think this really helps you grow as a cook.
For example, I thought I knew how to make pancakes.
But when I followed the recipe in this book, my pancakes were delicious, honestly better than IHOP.
The baking recipes are marvelous.
I love this cookbook because it tells you (in sometimes painstaking detail) why certain steps are important, certain equipment is better, what different cuts of meat are good for, the science behind the cooking, etc.
Cooks Illustrated / America's Test Kitchen has painstakingly tested all of that for you and come up with their "best recipe" of so many different dishes- practically everything is in here.
Do not attempt the recipes if you just want to whip something up.
But the results have been good.
This is the best cookbook I've ever had.
Cook's Illustrated has done the homework on what set of ingredients and processes are the best to use for many many basic foods.
The pancakes: best I've ever made.
Grilled chicken: it gives the solid basics of how to.
It also provides explanations of how they did their research, and for specific things, why some things work or taste better than others, like the very fundamental chemical reasons why commercial baking soda doesn't work in waffles, and why some eggs are better than others, and what rancid butter is.
