https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21266.Rick_Steves_Europe_Through_the_Back_Door
Can't afford to travel, so I enjoyed reading this in time for summer... and watching others' vacation pics on my FB feed. I find that Steves' books are excellently satisfying for this armchair tourist, and this one was no exception.
I chose this book for my informational text in my reading writing odyssey because this is one of my favorite travel books!
Rick Steve uses an informal and friendly approach with his readers to invite them in and show them what will make their trip the best experience they can have.
This book was recommended to me when I was planning my trip to Europe and I remember thinking how clever it was to write a travel book with a personality.
Steves uses the craft of mood and tone in his writing to excite and interest his readers.
I have to say this is by far the best book I have read when it comes to trip planning.
With the decline of the American dollar, a trip to Europe can seem a little intimidating, especially to young travelers or people on a tight budget.
Rick Steves provides great tips and insights on how to find affordable accomodations and transportation in this guide, as well as cheap ways to enjoy sightseeing in Europe.
After reading this book, Europe seems a lot more accessible to me, even in these rough economic times.
A MUST for anyone planning a trip to Europe, especially if you are considering a multi-destination trip!
I haven't been to Europe in over 10 years, and this was a really helpful guide to the practical things one needs to know: advice on money, accomodations, travel within Europe and trip planning, as well as some good ideas on where to go.
I wish I had read this before I had booked a flight and hotels; there is a lot of information here on how to save money on accomodations and flights.
I'm glad I read the book before I packed - I've scaled down my luggage for a two week trip to a single carryon back pack.
Rick Steves' travel series is highly recommended.
It's a bit unfair of me to be rating this edition when it's not the one I read and counted on while traveling abroad, yet Steves was so helpful for me who is phobic about being an Ugly American that I had to add him to my list. Read him before you go.
A great reference with anything you need to know!
But it doesn't.> Consider a renovated jail in Ljubljana (Hostel Celica, $30 for a bunk in a 12-bed dorm) or a summer-only circus tent in Munich ($10 per foam mattress).That is downright exotic.And just like the Index sort of guides, this one is already dated:> Staying in locals’ houses is interesting and affordable, whether through pay-for-stay arrangements like Airbnb, home exchanges, or organizations that emphasize intercultural exchange such as Couchsurfing and Servas.Couchsurfing is already hard to get a place and most hosts are fussy, some are down right unpleasant by starting with a how much they enjoy avoiding the corporate and business side than complaining the guest never took them out to a nice restaurant.
He goes into detail about why staying in a cheap dump where you may be sleeping on an air mattress on the floor after climbing 6 flights of stairs and having no air conditioning no matter how hot it is is so superior (to him) than sleeping in luxury and comfort.
He tends here to all of the travel skills you need to know about before heading off and then spends the rest of the book talking about specific cities and countries.
Read it for the interesting information but always remember- never stay anywhere he recommends unless you feel like you need to suffer.
Traveling the Rick Steves way is not for everyone. If you enjoy (and insist upon) room service, concierges, and other amenities of American-style hotels, you won't like traveling this way.This is about traveling like a European... staying in small locally-owned and run inns, guesthouses, and even private homes. It is much less expensive and much more authentic than staying at the Best Western.This book introduces Rick Steves style of traveling like a temporary European. He also has separate guidebooks for specific areas (France, Germany/Austria, etc.) which provide the details of where to stay, where to eat, etc.
This is a great travel resource, especially if you're a European travel novice. Rick covers all the topics you have questions about and topics you didn't know you had questions about. After reading Europe Through the Back Door we felt prepared to travel smart. Rick's advice really did make our trip go smoother. Thanks to Rick Steves for providing such a thorough, practical, up-to-date guide.
I read the 2010 version. For anyone going to Europe for the first time or looking to book a trip on their own but may have taken smaller trips with one home base city or guided tours in the past, this book provides a good overview and a lot of background information. I thought it was a helpful read before going more in depth with my planning.
Every year, I read the latest update of Europe Through the Back Door. Although a well seasoned traveler, I always find some new tidbit to take with me on travels. This is an excellent book for basic European travel skills for the novice.
Si bien tiene algunos tips y datos interesantes, es más un gran diario de viajes del propio Steves, con anécdotas, opiniones y relatos acompañados por imágenes, que una guía de turismo.
to help out travelers, he also gives a lengthy rundown of different brands of guidebooks in the beginning of the book, encouraging people to check out whatever books work for them.And this is technically a guidebook, but not really, which is maybe why I was able to read so much of it (instead of skimming over to the stuff that interests me).
He is pretty clear about what he thinks are the best options for things, and will back up his opinions with reasons (for example: he recommends staying in hostels to meet fellow travelers, or to stay in B&Bs if possible for the personal experience that is usually cheaper than a huge hotel).The second half/last third of the book goes through every country in Europe with his thoughts on each.
Rick Steves' Europe Through the Back Door teaches a person how to be a traveler rather than a tourist.
The book discusses pretty much every concern a traveler might have from disabilities, traveling with kids, emergencies, packing, politics, terrorism, and so one.
He even discusses ways to force oneself to be an extrovert to make better connections and have more interesting experiences.
This guidebook should be used in conjunction with Rick Steves' location specific guidebooks as it does not have the maps and detailed information that his other books provide.
Anyone who reads this book before traveling to Europe will have a better trip because of it.
While I was a frequent traveler 10-30 years ago, things have changed.
I gathered a lot of good notes from this book.
Things as varied as how to download offline city maps, using an inexpensive SIM chip, buying quick-dry cloth washcloths for countries that don't usually have them, suggestions to buy tickets to save time standing in LONG lines (even if it costs more), loading a VPN, using Google Earth to "walk down your street" before actually booking your B&B or guest house, and so forth.
Great ideas!
I put together a multipage check list before heading off to Budapest soon, so I am appreciative of this book's great advice.
It is good even for seasoned travelers, if their travels are a bit dated.
Wish I could give this 4.5*. As usual, Rick gives practical, no-nonsense advice for traveling Europe. This guide provides more generic tips, tricks, information, and common-sense than your typical travel guide. The recommendations for specific countries are sparse - only a few sections to each country- this is a much more comprehensive guide to understanding and navigating Europe's cultures as opposed to countries. A must read for any American who doesn't want to be an idiot abroad.
I read this book over 20 years ago and it still graces my bookshelf. I am a believer of passing on books to be enjoyed by more, but this one is too valuable to me to pass along. You will have to get your own copy!I am thrilled I read this book just as I was beginning to travel. It helped me cultivate a mindset to embrace local culture and people and armed me with the tools to be an independent traveller.
An incredibly useful book, even for someone who has backpacked before. I knocked stars off for Rick Steves writing style which bugged me, and because Steves only goes into detail on his favourite European countries (these countries are the popular tourist ones, but this could be limiting if you're starting out and trying to figure out what countries to go to and what's vaguely in each of them).3.5 stars
This was very different from the other Rick Steves books that I have read in the past. Looking at the table of contents I felt a little disappointed. It focussed more on customs, language barriers and other aspects of travel and not on the European countries themselves. But the first part of the book was actually really helpful and a good reference that I'm sure I will use again.
Great read for not just Europe travel but travel in general. Rick Steves covers tips on luggage, flights, where to stay, etc. and while he does use European examples these tips can be used no matter where you travel.
Full of helpful tips for traveling to Europe--packing lists, how to travel, staying safe, saving money, etc. We found it very useful on our first trip to Europe.
I admittedly skipped some country sections that I'm not too interested in.Think it could be a decent resource, but again, repeats a lot of things that already showed up in the TV show.
Immensely useful while preparing for a trip to Spain.
I read the 1999 edition and went to many places. I found his Best of Europe to be better.
A thorough how-to guide for traveling Europe and avoiding the worst of the over-touristed areas and problems. Also includes a few pages of recommendations for several major European countries.
Good general guide to independent travel in Europe.
Great resource for traveling through Europe. Unfortunately I was on a guided tour, so I couldn't take advantage of some of the "backdoor" suggestions but it was interesting anyway. Most helpful was the chapter on safety. Mr. Steve's mentioned thieves and scams. Specifically he talked about a scam where the cashier pretends to talk on the phone and takes a picture of your credit card. Sure enough while in London we came across this "chatty cashier"... we quickly evaluated this as one pf the warning that Mr. Steves listed, and paid in cash. Well worth reading!
I recently travelled to Europe with Rick Steves' Best of Europe 2015 and found that book really useful and interesting, so (after I got back) I snapped up an 2002 edition of Back Door that I came across at a 2nd hand book stall.
This book really does impart important travel skills, I think it'd be really worthwhile to buy a recent edition if you're a first-time independent traveller, and it might be worthwhile if you're a moderately-experienced independent traveller (I'd put myself in that category) with lots of spare reading time and cash.
A very helpful guide in preparation for a trip to Europe. Answered questions I had and even questions I'd never thought of.
