https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574147.The_Girl_from_Montana
They track her through the wilderness of Montana, as she and her horse hide along the way as best they can.
She faces many terrifying situations as she journeys on alone toward Philadelphia, hoping to track down her parents' families, whom she has never met.
I find it interesting that the girls in Hill's stories often discover great joy by attending Christian Endeavor meetings at local churches.
My Mom often spoke fondly of her own church youth group as Christian Endeavor, and I never realized it was a world-wide organization.
Greatest Read for Living I've been reading Grace Livingston Hill for over 50 years. This book is refreshing and beautifully written, spreading the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Her books are a testament on how you should live you you life whether you are 15 or 65. Her books influenced my life in so many ways
Way heavier on the moralizing and religion than The Enchanted Barn, but there's a happy ending so let's be honest, I liked it.
A highly improbable yet enjoyable story
The book that got me hooked on reading.This is the first book that grabbed my imagination at age of 9 and from this book my love of reading was found. God is our refuge and His mercy and love abound in this story.
A great re-read ... although it's probably altogether a preposterous story, the "fairy-tale" in it is enough to keep my interest. Being a very easy read made it a good one for an especially hectic time in my life.
It is a refreshing, well-written story about a young teenage girl, Elizabeth, who lived in Montana at the turn of the 20th century.
He was very kind to her, but once she learned that it wasn’t proper for a young woman to be traveling alone unmarried, she refused to continue her journey with him, and traveled alone on her horse to Philadelphia despite his pleas to go with him on a train.
Elizabeth had a strong desire to attend school, but the family could not afford it, and needed her income at a variety store to supplement the family income if she were to live there.
Though raised in relative isolation without the benefit of a formal education, Elizabeth's intrinsic grace and refinement capture the interest of a rich young city-bred man she meets on her escape.
After several harrowing experiences, Elizabeth finally finds her grandmothers, learns she is heiress to a large fortune and is installed into the social whirl of Philadelphia.
But will her belief that his heart belongs to another prevent them from finding happiness in each other's arms?I read many of Grace Livingston Hill's books when I was a girl and I loved every one of them.
It's a girl on an adventure and becomes a bit of a missionary story (fair warning given, to those of you who don't like such.).
She goes to her grandmother's and grows interested in the Christian Endeavor meetings (of which the author was a great advocate), where she learns to worship God truly; these parts become somewhat preachy, but I enjoyed it.
Elizabeth is a matter-of-fact, pleasant-natured survivor by nature, and those who like such characters will enjoy the adventure in this story.
When the murderer wants to claim Elizabeth for himself, she goes on the run from Montana to the East to find her long-lost relatives.
Along the way, she runs into George Benedict, who has gotten separated from his hunting party.
Together they make their way, only to be separated by a family emergency.
Elizabeth finishes her journey East, finding her family - but will she ever find George again?Grace Livingston Hill's story, though over a hundred years old, still has freshness today.
Hill emphasizes Elizabeth's spiritual journey and quotes Scripture frequently, showing how faith was central to her transformation.
This book showed so much promise at the beginning!
At the first, the story was exciting and the language was full of beautiful imagery.
After they found civilization again, the writer started to hurry through the story and the beautiful detail she wrote at the first disappeared.
The rest of the characters weren't developed as well as the first ones and her only point seemed to be about finding Jesus,which is a fine theme, but the storyline was lost in the writer's desire to establish it.
I'm still holding out the hope that she is able to finish a book as strong as she begins one.
Pulp fiction of a very high order.
Once you accept the premise that "the girl," whose name isn't revealed until about halfway through the book, has lost all five members of her immediate family one-by-one, that she has no friends, and that she's currently under threat of rape by four of her late brother's cronies, you get caught up in her dangerous flight across the wilds of Montana.
She encounters a friendly high-borne tenderfoot (her ultimate love interest) and, refreshingly, rescues him more than he rescues her.
There's a lot of religion in this book, and the girl is basically an angel incarnate.
I quite enjoyed the book.
Written in 1922 it was interesting language used.
I certainly got into the story about the girl Elizabeth witnessing so much death, and running in fear of a man, riding her horse from Montana to Chicago then to Philadelphia.
I didn't much like Aunt Nan's character that her daughter Lizzie was to be given all opportunities in life.
Lizzie was a strong girl in her own right who knew what buttons to press in her environment.
Especially that God's house was only a social outing an not knowing that God wanted Lizzie to become acquainted with him.
This is a pretty good book by G.L. Hill.
I like her books, but the romance part is not really exciting.
As usual in these books, there is a seeming obstacle in the way of the two lovers.
This book follows a girl from the wild west to the big city back east.
One thing I found funny is that even though she was from the wild west, she automatically seems to know, once she gets to the city, that chewing gum and wearing lipstick are completely taboo.You can read it for free on Gutenberg.org.

Pretty adventurous story of a girl left alone after the last of her family has died off, in Montana. She knows how to ride a horse, shoot guns and provide for herself. She runs away because there is a man with evil intent, to find her family. Life away from her rural background is a letdown in many ways and she meets with few worthy people. People who are not attracted to theological discussions won't have patience for this story, and maybe few romance readers might be. I'm glad, though, that Ms. Hill could create a story of female bravado.
The girl has a terrible life. Her family is dead and her brother's murderer has decided to have his wicked way with her. Thankfully, she's plucky and escapes into the night. She meets a handsome stranger and decides to travel with him. They fall in love. No names are exchanged. They part and discover each others names...then she discovers she is an unspoiled heiress. Its all very wonderful. And clinche. And awful all at the same time.
I found this book online while searching for free ebooks. For the most part I liked it. Good beginning, the middle was a bit dry at times, and a great finish. The only flaw is that the middle was boring at points, and the characters being called just 'the girl' and 'the man' became confusing when other characters were present.
I loved this until it got a little religious and repetitive in sections. I felt my toes curl in frustration after I read the line "for the lands sakes" for the fifth time....you can only imagine how I felt with every repetition that followed. The suspense between the characters of Elizabeth and Benedict and whether they would meet again was the only thing that kept me reading.
I'm giving this book a five because I would read it again. Not sure what it was about this book but it was a breath of fresh air for me. It brought me to a happy place...This book is free for download on kindle and I am looking forward to checking out more Grace Livingston Hill books in the future.
Christian-fiction. The book started with such interesting writing. Innocent, wholesome, interesting. I loved how the author didn't introduce the names of the man and the girl until about half way through the book. Plan on reading more from this author.
This was a fun bit of "fluff" reading I did basicaly for nostalgia. I used to read Christian romances by Grace Livingston Hill in my pre/early teen years. It was, in that way, a fun little trip to yesterday.
Another love story to arouse your soul.I liked this book nearly as well as the others I have read. It keeps a person eager to continue reading. I would recommend it to anyone who likes a love story filled with many problems.
I've read a few stories by Grace and this one is definitely my favorite of hers. I've read it at least 4 times because it's an easy read and a pleasant story. The type that you can go back to just to enjoy.
In memory of times pastI always find it refreshing to read the writing styles of yesteryear. It seems the actual perceptions were really not so different but the eyes that saw were.
I read this as a free book on the kindle app. I really enjoyed this sweet and uplifting story.
I loved this sweet simple old-fashioned story. Very quick read, but so charming. My favorite by Ms. Hill so far!
Hope, Faith & LoveAdventure, sorrow, faith & love bond together to create a wonderful love story that keeps the reader in suspense till the end.
Good, clean, entertaining book. Not particularly deep, but sometimes it's just fun to read and not have to think too hard:)
1920's Christian chick lit.
