https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91872.Trash
This is where i fell in love with Dorothy Allison - this is where i found a voice like no other and first heard her clear invocation of story as not merely survival but triumph - life itself lived with a degree of accountability that is specific to finding the language with which to face it.
Some stories of brutality that you pray you will never experience and some about the strength of families that you might look for, even hope for.My first book by Dorothy Allison was Bastard Out of Carolina.
I picked Trash because I like short stories and it is one of Allison’s first published books, maybe the first.
Maybe it is just serial monogamy as a result of the number of years of change and alert flirting.Dorothy Allison makes fun of Southern writers.Toni pulled a library book out of her backpack and tossed it in my direction.
Now I have read two Dorothy Allison books and rated both five stars.
It takes all we have to know the truth, to believe in ourselves without reference to moon or magic."The only magic we have is what we make of ourselves, the muscles we build up on the inside, the sense of belief we create from nothing.
But I am her daughter and have as much muscle in me as she ever did.
I stretch myself out a little, and then my own fear pulls me back in.
Waxing and waning through my life, maybe I’m building up layers of strength inside me.
Maybe."- The Muscles of the Mind
While this collection of stories is slim, odds are it’ll take you a few days to trek through.
I was confident it was a two-night read, but the gritty, harnessed prose slowed me up and caused it to take about a week.
When you read one of Allison’s stories, it takes time to digest.
As a reader I was encouraged to dissect each one, but felt as if the job had already been done for me intentionally.
Digging for the deeper meaning seems entirely against Allison’s intention, but at the same time is gut-wrenchingly necessary.
— Aram Mrjoianfrom The Best Books We Read In May: http://bookriot.com/2015/06/02/riot-r...
Dorothy Allison is one of my favorite people, even though I don’t know her.
Though she doesn’t gloss over the uglies, she writes with great passion about the virtues, makes vicious (and well-deserved) fun of writers and others who deign to judge, to pretend they know what it’s like to grow up poor in Greenville, NC because they’ve read a little Faulkner or Flannery O’Connor.
And the closing story, “Compassion,” about her mother’s death is as touching a piece of prose as you’ll ever read.
But what you’ll find mostly is well-crafted, deeply true and wrenching stories drawn directly from a worlds you can barely imagine.
This is one that I initially read in a writing workshop class in college; my copy ended up going home with a roommate, but the stories stuck with me anyway.
It recently popped into my head again, and of course the library had a copy, so I decided it was time for a re-read.In short, it's a fantastic collection.
The stories are hard and unsentimental, often violent and sometimes horrifying, but also surprisingly beautiful at times.
The stories are short, and it's quick to simply read all the words on the page, but each story demands reflection and digestion.
The introduction alone is a stunning piece of work, describing the author's decision "to live" and to write her stories.
The standard frequenty cited to determine whether or not someone is a "real writer" is whether or not that person would write if they knew no one would ever read their work.
In Dorothy Allison's case, the choice between writing and not writing is presented as a literal choice between life and death.
I believe we can confidently call Dorothy Allison a "real writer".
The stories in this volume are often startling in their power; there is no other way to put it: life is right there, staring and grabbing at you from the pages.
Dorothy Allison writes in the Southern tradition with a twist--she's a lesbian and she's not ashamed of it, even coming from a dirt poor family that places importance on how many babies you can produce and how well you marry.
This slim book is a collection of short memoir narratives that read as if Allison is sitting right in front of you, sipping on sweet tea and smoking a cigarette, while she divulges all of her secrets.
Some secrets are raw and painful while others are delightful and sensuous--but they all have one thing in common--they are real.
And wonderful.
I thought I was going to give this a 4 but since finishing it I've had that special feeling of calm completion that I only get with really, really good books, so 5 it is. I bloody love Dorothy Allison, I love the way she writes, I especially love the way she writes about sex. I want to read everything she's ever written.
get it. worship dorothy allison. give her overly long and unwanted hugs. ask if you can make a movie about her. pretend you don't mind when she politely refuses. bury your hurt in pulled pork sandwiches.
River of Names and her introduction are worth the price of admission here.
Reading Dorothy Allison has profoundly reconnected me to my roots, to writing, to feeling lust for women in a small town.
Favorite character/scene from this book from story "Steal Away" about a girl who is questioned for being poor from her professors and states: "I limited my outrage to their office shelves, working my way through their books one at a time, carefully underlining my favorite passages in dark blue ink - occasionally covering their own faded marks.
heavy blue ink stains showed on the binding itself." <3 UGH.
I was writing for myself, trying to shape my life outside my terrors and helplessness, to make it visible and real in a tangible way, in the way other people's seemed real -- the lives I had read about in books." — Dorothy Allison (Trash) "I did things I did not understand for reasons I could not begin to explain just to be in motion, to be trying to do something, change something in a world I wanted desperately to make over but could not imagine for myself." — Dorothy Allison (Trash) "When my mama was twenty-five she already had an old woman's hands, and I feared them.
But soon Allison's brilliant writing won me over, and I couldn't stop -- because beyond all my inhibitions, her stories made me hungry.
"A Lesbian Appetite" literally makes the easy connection between sex and appetite - and in it Allison crafts visceral, intense scenes which blur the boundaries of sex and desire and food and family and home.
Other stories in Trash pose the question of hunger (read: desire) more subtly: "Muscles of the Mind" explores the trials of friendship, "Demon Lover" looks at a lover who won't leave, even in death, and "Compassion" makes peace with endings.
Most short story collections, if not all, I've read before contained stories that differed from each other in terms of characters, narrator, and setting.
All the stories in Trash are told in Allison's semi-(or more accurately nearly-?)autobiographical voice but they differ in when they happen, where she is and as a result, *who* she is.
It was very interesting to see just how different that narrative voice could be, not just as a result of different times or places, but also because of the multi-faceted nature of human beings, and at the same time feel like the same person I'd been getting to know in the course of the book.

This was a very good group of short stories written by a gay woman who grew up in the south @1950-60's. It was raw and intense. I have never read this author before and was glad to discover her work. I'm now on to another memoir of growing up in the 80's-90's called Hillbilly Elegy. Very different but also a very good look at what it means to grow up in a working class white family in the south/rust belt.
I could barely get through this book for the same reason it took me three tries before I could sit through all of Schindler's List. It is indeed powerful and gritty, but just so terrifying and sad, especially "River of Names," a basic list of all the horrible things that poverty can drive people to do.
Highly graphic, audacious and twisted, this book of short stories is the precursor to Bastard out of Carolina. Although I didn't enjoy Trash nearly as much as Bastard, I did favour 'Don't Tell Me You Don't Know' and 'I'm Working On My Charm.'www.booksnakereviews.blogspot.com
i just can't ever lose with dorothy allison. over and over again.
And that’s not a bad thing at all, but it does place it pretty firmly in a time and place.
Dorothy Allison writes about the SOUTH, like the SOOOOOOOOUTH.
Her collection is not all that different from Doris Betts in that same way.
The major criticism of this book would be that the stories tend to blend.
There’s also an issue with the variety of length being a little out of balance.But all that is to say that this is a really effective and poignant collection of stories.
Dorothy Allison isn’t buying it either.
Dorothy Allison is not meant to be fucked with.
This woman created a new topic of understanding in literature - what it means to be white, living in poverty in the rural South, as a lesbian, with a past history of familial sexual assault.
Her collection of short stories is unflinchingly honest.
The overlapping arcs of class, poverty, and sexuality will give you a new storytelling perspective.
Her fact shapes her fiction, and damn do her stories stick.
Dorothy is fearless.
She lives for no one but herself.
She knew her stories mattered.
The others seemed to far away from that same sentimentality, from that strange warmth of the cruel world she had lived in and told us about.
The last story, specially, - Compassion - was the strongest one featured and gave a rare, beautiful, and, above all, detailed, account of those moments, which is something that I find rather unusual in this kind of narratives, in which these situations seemed almost brushed over, out of recoilment or some sort of fear.Even though I wanted to give 2,5/5, I decided on 2, as I could not see myself give it more than that.
3.5 starsI love Allison's writing.
Had I gone into these stories knowing nothing about them, I think it still would have been obvious to me that Allison is writing from personal experience.
That said, only a few of the stories in this collection felt truly memorable.
Something I've learned about myself in the past year or so is that the short story collections I love are the ones with magical realism elements.
These stories are pure realism.
So a strong collection of short stories, but perhaps not the one for me.

i really liked this book. the kind of writing that encourage me to be honest with myself, accepting, a bit easier to be at peace.from introduction p viii“that forgiveness took place in large part through the writing of these stories, in a process of making peace with the violence of my childhood, in owning up to it and finding a way to talk about it that did not make me ashamed of myself or those i loved”lots of gay sexamazing voice/stylecw childhood abuse
One of those books that I remembered being meaningful in college, but hadn't read since then. So much better now - I'm a better reader and have lived more to boot. Hard to read at times, but so much here. Really caught by the tension, described again and again in these stories, about the differences between what you can tell a lover, your family, a friend."Sex," I told her. "I will be sex for you."Never asked, "You. What will you be for me?"Every story bites and burns and stays.
4.5 stars. Some of the most powerful, visceral writing I have read. Allison digs deep into her own past growing up poor in the South and wrings out the ugliness and the strength. and lays it bare for the reader. It feels like the line between memoir and fiction is blurry in this collection -- and based on the introduction (which alone made the collection worth reading), this is deliberate.
I really wanted to like this one. I truly loved both the stories and the writing of her two novels. But I didn't click with this book of essays. The first two were very powerful - brutal even - but I had a hard time maintaining my enthusiasm for the rest of them.
This collection of short stories was definitely worth the read. They were all 3-5 stars for me but my favorites were:The introduction: Stubborn Girls and Mean StoriesRiver of NamesSteal AwayMonkeybitesHer ThighsMuscles of the MindLupusand Compassion. Love Dorothy Allison’s writing.
