https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53645.Tender_at_the_Bone
I've come to find out that most the time, if a lot of people agree that something is worth reading...it usually is!
I had to force myself not to read anything at home, and I still finished it in less than a week!Reichl is a great storyteller—that's the barebones truth.
But when life hands you lemons, do the Ruthie thing...and make an amazing lemon souffle!
Follow up reading about her personal life "around the table" include Comfort Me with Apples and Garlic and Sapphires, which chronicles some of her best restaurant critic adventures.
I'm sure you'll agree after you finish reading this book!
But unless she's made entire years out of whole cloth, she's lived one hell of an interesting life.
Throughout it all, the power of a meal -- sometimes spectacular, sometimes spectacularly bad -- has been a constant.And to be honest, I don't care if the tale's been embroidered, and I don't really care about Reichl's ultimate success as a critic.
Growing up in Greenwich Village in the fifties with her loving, but distracted father, her manic-depressive mother, and her not-blood-but-close-enough grandmothers; her wanderings around the Bowery on the edges of the early seventies art scene; her accidental creation of a commune in Berkeley -- it's an entertaining, slow-unfolding story, accentuated by the recipes she encounters along the way.
Charming and amusing account of how food critic Reichl got tuned into cooking through her family experiences and explorations in her young adult period.
Her manic depressive mother was hopeless as a cook, even dangerous, as when she wasn’t using canned ingredients, she used bargain foods dangerously past their expiration dates.
The approach is homey and soothing, although not as exciting as the way sensual dishes are placed in the fictional “Like Water for Chocolate” or as entertaining as the accounts of challenging preparations for Child dishes in the memoir “Julie and Julia”.
I like reading challenges because, every now and then, you get lucky and you stumble on something you would never read otherwise. This book is the perfect example, if you, like me, thought that food memoirs would be boring and uninspiring, try this book. It’s a delicious memoirs sprinkled with exquisite travel memories and a handful of recipes. What an unexpected delight! Recommended.
I really enjoy reading about food and Ruth Reichl never disappoints.
Though not so much about food as other books I have read, but more of a story of her life and how food played a role in it.
I enjoyed the different recipes that she added to the book and have marked a few to make for my husband.
I always find recipes interesting and enjoy them even more when there is a story that comes along with them.
I loved Reichl's book Garlic and Sapphires and now might have to re-read it.
Both a must read for any food lover.
I had a whole review written and ready to be posted when I accidentally trashed it. Grrr.... Just let it be known, Reichl is one of my all-time favorite food writers. She could write the telephone book and it would be wonderful!
I did get a kick out of some of the New York neighborhood bits, in that I recently watched an episode of some Food Network show that visited culinarily-historic NYC businesses, and several of those were places Reichl mentioned.
But all sympathy that was built up on that score was lost when Reichl wrote that if her mother had been normal, she (Ruth) wouldn't have been present for the 100th birthday celebration of one of her favourite people.
Here's hoping that she relaxed about herself a bit in the 3 years between writing the two books.
I’m not normally a big fan of books about food.
Ruth Reichl is editor of Gourmet magazine and her long years in the magazine industry are evident in her writing style.
On the whole the story is better off when Ruth allows herself to be overcome with the delight she feels in food, several descriptions had me salivating like some Pavlovian pooch and wishing I knew people who could cook these fantastic confections for me.Like I said, it is a quick read that won’t stick with you long (though the recipes may), but enjoyable in a pinch.
This is a memoir built around food--and as Reichl put it, she decided that instead of pictures she'd give recipes throughout to paint a picture of her relationships.
Part of that is that this is a lot more than an ode to food.
Oh, and there is the food.
Here's her description of her first taste of Brie: "I felt Monsieur du Croix watching as I ate the strong, slippery cheese.
It was so powerful I felt the tips of my ears go pink." She gives us not just the taste, but the colors, the sensations.
Let me say first of all that this book made me realize (sadly) just how dull my own life has been. Ruth Reichl has certainly had an interesting and rather bohemian lifestyle, picking up and traveling here and there without much deliberation and tasting all manner of exotic dishes. There's a real sense of joy in that. The freedom! The unconventionality!Since cooking is most definitely NOT my thing, the recipes were incidental to me. It was Ruth's lifestyle and relationships that interested me much more than her recipes. And she had a way dropping names that was not offensive.
This is a truly wonderful food memoir I got to enjoy during my weeks of "detoxing".
As I wasn't allowed to eat sugar, wheat, fish, meat, or dairy, I ate vicariously through Ruth Reichl's delicious sounding recipes that she used to take us through the various decades and destinations of her rich life to date.
I so enjoyed "getting to know" her, her friends, her mild-mannered father, her highly strung (to put it mildly) mother, and her husband.
I can't wait to read another one of her books, but I especially can't wait to try out her recipe for the Lemon Soufflé now that my detox diet is over.
Love this kind of book - a memoir revolving around food! Tells of Ruth's childhood, college, working in restaurants, getting married and family life. All her stories have food at the heart of them, and it's all pretty cute and cosy.
Nice read about a food critic growing up with a bi-polar mom and how she came to love food. Interesting when she writes on living in Berkeley in the 70:ies. Might try and find some more of her books. Oh and I will try some of the recipes too!
Even after they get treatment, you can't be sure they'll take their medication: when they're in a depressive phase, they can honestly forget, and when they go manic, they're convinced that "they don't need that stuff."But why use the cooking memoir as an excuse to air one's family issues and repeatedly castigate the "guilty" one over 200 pages?
You've got a problem.The authoress' issues come to a head toward the end of the book as she repeatedly flees the entire east coast (when not overjoyed to find an apartment in a neighbourhood that is "so dangerous her mother would never visit") to put as much space between them as possible.
You should not make this same mistake.The first chapter opens with these words: “This is a true story.” Reichl then proceeds to tell us of a time her mother woke up her father to come into the kitchen taste a spoonful of something.
Spoiled!” Reichl then proceeds to tell us that her family seemed to have an innate tolerance for spoiled foods that made other people sick and that her mother frequently cooked with what the rest of us would see as poison.
(Don’t ask.) If having a great story to tell and lots of recipes to share isn’t enough for you, just know that Reichl is one of the better memoir writers out there.
This is a memoir written by a NY Times food critic that manages to intermingle her relationship with food throughout different phases of her life and growing up with a manic-depressive mother.
(They were sometimes oddly thrown in, not quite at the right places, which was a little weird.) The book had a binding theme (food) that worked and was well-written.
Isn't that the point?) Memoirs often show who the author thinks she is, but sometimes the audience sees a different person.
For example, in this book so many of her mother's strange choices for her actually ended up working out quite well, whereas the author's own choices were often haphazard and short-sighted.
Reichl is the editor-in-chief of Gourmet magazine, and this is her memoir about "Growing up at the table." As she tells the stories of her life, growing up with a manic depressive mother, going to boarding school in Montreal, and surviving in a commune in Berkeley, she includes recipes she loves and describes her unique and constant connection with food.
Her mother does have a very interesting relationship with food that clearly affects Reichl (and these are some of the best stories in the book).
But, like any dysfunctional family, I suppose, she and her father seemed to live in constant denial of her mother's mental illness.
The way that Ruth Reichl weaves her story with recipes and food anecdotes was very entertaining.
I enjoyed this book, and have read two other books by Reichl, "Comfort Me With Apples," in which she continues her life and food journey, from New York to the West Coast, and "Delicious!" in which Ruth tries her hand at writing fiction.
As a Los Angelino and a Berkeley-ite, the locales of "Comfort Me With Apples" were all very familiar to me.
And during my years in Berkeley, I lived only a few blocks from where Ruth lived on Channing Way. And "Delicious!" is all that and more.
What a life!
Being banished to learn French at a boarding school in Montreal?
Lunatic New York mother fixing spoiled sea urchin and suckling pig?
Traipsing through Morocco?
Working and living in lunatic communes in Berkeley?
And all the while eating, eating, eating.Ruth Reichl lives to cook and eat and feed people.
Not a shabby life!
I liked this MUCH better than her [Comfort Me With Apples] by the way.
coming of age, getting married, finding your life passion-- that's a much more comforting story than having affairs, getting divorced, losing a child but then overcoming all odds and making do...
I really, really enjoyed this. I did not know about her mother's illness, so that added an interesting layer for me. I was really impressed with how Reichl wrote about the unhappy and negative stories in her life. I think that must be the hardest part of writing memoirs...I want to think Reichl wrote honestly because that is how it felt to me. Also, it read so smoothly I couldn't put it down. 4.5 stars, actually.
Fantastic memoir of Reichl's early life and the experiences that lead her to become a food critic. She has had such a different life than my own that it was absorbing and ultimately tied together beautifully. My favorite by her to date (I've read Garlic & Sapphires, My Kitchen Year).
While her memoir about her time as a food critic at the New York Times, Garlic and Sapphires, wasn't a home run, it was still good, and her novel Delicious!
Now, I've moved on to Tender at the Bone, which is basically a memoir (albeit an embroidered one) about how Reichl grew up to love food and managed her crazy family.
Reichl states in the preface to the book that embroidering, reordering, and sometimes just making up stories is a family tradition, and that she's done some altering to this memoir in order to make it flow better as a solid narrative.
(The very fact that my mother confessed to cooking with a two-week-old turkey says a lot about her.) She put the turkey and a half can of mushroom soup into the pot.
Food critic and chef Ruth Reichl traces her lifelong love affair with food, beginning with her mother's atrocious culinary creations during her childhood, through to her very first restaurant reviews out in California.
She cooked for friends in New York and Ann Arbor and in a hippie commune in California, waited tables in Berkeley, gave cooking lessons to a Warhol Superstar, and eventually started writing restaurant reviews.
Plus, she was the restaurant critic for the New York Times, and you know they don't give that job to just anyone.
Rachel Reichl handles both subjects nicely---although "nice" is not the adjective to use in regard to her lifestyle!
Born to a German American father and a manic-depressive mother, Rachel had a most unusual upbringing, rich in diversity of experience but poor in moral underpinnings.
Her ability to describe how food tastes is over the top: "The strands of spaghetti were vital, almost alive in my mouth, and the olive oil was singing with flavor." Never a boring moment in the book; there were a few distasteful scenes typical to the hippie-era lifestyle.
I don't have to even know who they are - if they write about their life with key moments charmed by cooking and good food, I want to read it.
Tender at the Bone is the memoir of New York Times food critic, Ruth Reichl.I knew from the first few pages that I would love this book.
But Reichl cared about food, and when any opportunity presented itself to learn about cooking, selecting or eating fine food, Ruth Reichl grabbed on with both hands.Reichl has obviously lived a remarkable life (even sans embellishments), and that shines in this memoir.
I highly recommend Tender at the Bone!
When I saw this copy at the Library Sale I was happy to be able to buy it and read it again.Ruth Reichl is (or was at the time the book was published) the restaurant critic for the NY Times.
Pretty soon Ruth is cooking as a form of therapy and she is good at it.
Everywhere Ruth lives the house is full of people who come to eat.
I cooked quite a bit from that book and the food was, as Ruth says, dreary.
It's pretty good.Using recipes the way someone else might use photographs, Reichl tells the story of her life in relationship to food, from her mother's unconscious attempts to poison her family with spoiled food ("The Queen of Mold" is actually one of the best chapters for sheer entertainment value) to her later encounter with a wine merchant who "has to make these damn trips" to France so that he can personally taste the wines for his shop in Berkeley.
Ruth Reichl comes across as somewhat unconscious, a young woman who simply blunders into her eventual career as a food critic and editor of "Gourmet" magazine.
Bringing her writing skills to novelistic form, she makes her eccentric mother, long-suffering but oblivious father, knowing stepbrother and the various personalities she encountered in her existence live in this tale about food, family and obsessions.
Ms. Reichl realized quite young that you can learn a lot about people from watching how and what they ate.
This skill in people-watching became a necessity as she tried her best to steer guests away from her mother’s questionable home cooking.
Ms. Reichl may have very well learned her cooking skills out of self-defense.
I wouldn't describe myself as a foodie, and I don't love to cook (unless it's cookies or pie) so I wasn't sure how much I would enjoy a memoir written by a famous (but unknown to me) food critic.
Fortunately one does not need to be a foodie to enjoy this book.
This is one of the most delightful memoirs I have read.
I loved how even though this was a book about food, the food was kind of in the background mixed up with the happenings of Reichl's life.
Reichl gets that, and she has written a book about food that is for everyone.
