https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/412965.So_Speaks_the_Heart
Rowland is even accused by his nasty stepmother of coddling Brigitte, because it is obvious she's unharmed and he's more concerned with assuring her everything is okay and she is safe/forgiven than punishing her for stealing a horse (apparently a death worthy offense).At some point he begins to suspect that she really is the lady she claims to be, but doesn't want to face that fact.
He also did not believe that a lady would want him, so it was safer for him to live in denial with Brigitte as a 'slave'.
(and simply drowned herself in her own stupidity.)The hero insisted on believing a stranger's words which he had known for like five minutes instead of trusting the girl he had spent nights with!
It would be kinda believable if nobody tries to explain it to him, but thats not fucking the case!!The D-something bitch was kinda stupid for lying, torturing people, acting haughty, poisoning and doing other bad things without getting caught when she has got like millions of people (who hate her guts) witnessing her stupid deeds.
Take what he wants and damn the consequences.Forced together because of lies and an unfortunate incident exacerbated by her Aunt's lies, Rowland stubbornly refuses to believe she is anything more than what she appears to be.Because of love she begins to feel for him, she will overlook that...until she finds he’s lying to her as well.Okay, this one’s a toughie.
Rowland was raised by a brutish father, so he’s a bit of brute to at the beginning of the story, though his sense of justice shines through even all that.
*almost* The slight twist at the end concerning Rowland made me want another story from this family, altho I don’t think JL ever went there.
The blistering Epic Love-Tale about the hardened and fear-less Warrior Rowland of Montville who will mistake the Golden-haired and stubborn Lady Brigitte of Louroux for a slave, and he will take her away on a unforgettable journey where they both will find the rapture in falling irrevocably in love with each other.Johanna Lindsey writes in a addictive way of her own where she drowns you into the historical medieval world and simply enchants you with her intriguing characters.Plot is simply amazing with it`s intrigue of hidden secrets that presents you to a shocking twist you could never imagine, ferocious rivals willing to stab your back at any minute, bitter and disgusting family members that has hurt our hero and heroine,final intense battle at the end...and the romance between Rowland and Brigitte was Oh So simply severe and sincere.
One could not even seek refuge in the blessings of trashy imagery; evil females stripping the heroine bare to have her creamy flesh flayed, ancient Counts with BDSM chambers (this sadly is only alluded to, we never get an invite to said Count's vices), or amuse oneself with the ridiculous modes of address, the dialogues, the rudimentary character sketches that never make it to the level of rudimentary character sketches, and the swift transportation of the heroine from one place to an other (not bad for a girl who is, we are told, a prisoner who cannot escape -she constantly does, btw) by some spectacular plot salti mortali assurdi  (so much so, you'd think there are pages missing in between chapters).
The book never reaches the level where the need to address the requirement that a world be built, a world in which to place the romance, ever arises.
"So Speaks The Heart" reminded me of why I love the older Johanna Lindsey books.
It takes place in France A.D. 972 and she does a great job in her discriptions of the castle, keep , the knights and the serfs.
I loved the mistaken i.d. theme.
The H belives the h is a serf and was given to him by her wicked aunt but she is really a lady.
With no way to prove otherwise and needing to excape her aunt, she goes with the with him.
This novel started out a little rough for me because I was a taken aback by Rowland's inital treatment of Bridgette.
But considering the horrible childhood Rowland had, it was a wonder he didn't behave even worse than he did.
This blinds him to the fact that she is actually a lady as she claims - instead of a servant.
When they are separated for months right before the conclusion, it seems that too much time has passed for Bridgette to forgive Rowland's absence.
But Rowland risks imprisionment by Bridgette's brother to finally come after her a second time.
Briggitte escapes her aunt, only to run into the "hero," Rowland, who decides to take her into custody--and he just happens to be heading back to her home, where evil Druoda waits.
He doesn't much like or trust women, so he's not inclined to believe the heroine--but for some reason, he DOES believe Druoda who tells him Briggitte is a serf who gets above herself and pretends to be a lady.
FINALLY there comes a point where he admits she might be telling the truth and that he doesn't WANT to believe because then he'd have to do the right thing by her instead of keeping her as a slave and using her without benefit of marriage.
I read each and every Lindsey novel that had been published to date, and then began the agonizing wait for the next release.
I can still remember reading, rereading and then re-rereading my books over and over again while waiting for my favorite authors to get with the program, and feed my addiction.
I remember the joy of discovering yet one more author that would take precious space on my bookshelves, after all only the greats made my "collection." I still have 97% of all the books, and it makes me so happy to know that I kept them.
Tan horrible como lo esperaba. Es tan caotica y pasan tantas cosas estúpidas e innecesarias que ni sé por donde empezar a criticar. Desde personajes estereotípicos hasta una ambientación completamente errónea y una representación de las costumbres totalmente alejada de la realidad. Un caos de sucesos que simplemente sirven para llenar páginas. Desconozco completamente a esta Johanna Lindsey porque me consta que tiene buenos libros.Es decepcionante que por culpa de estas novelas se critique a todo el género, porque no todo es Harlequin, "bodice rippers," o Fabio.
C'est toujours un plaisir de relire cette romance historique qui est l'une des premières que j'ai lues. Le caractère de l'héroïne m'a toutefois un peu tapé sur les nerfs, à s'emporter pour un oui ou pour un non. Je me suis rendue compte avec surprise que cette romance prenait place en France (il y en a si peu qu'il me semble important de le souligner !).
Es de esos libros que aunque tienen un poquito de cursilería hacen reír, ayudan a pasar un buen rato y desconectar. Yo los veo como un cuento antes de dormir o si se está triste y esta escritora es muy divertida.
When I came to the part (almost at the very end of the book) where the lost tween story was revealed, I finally remembered that I had read this book years ego.
Granted she hated him because he rapped her, but oh god did I strongly dislike her.I love strong heroines in my books, in fact most of the time I look for a heroine who can stand up for herself and fight, but there is a difference between being strong and just being a loud mouth.
I'm all for good girl being the only one who can take hero out of his haze, but again too much of it is just plain annoying.You know, I can't tell if I disliked the heroine, or if it was the writing style that made me hate the book.
I feel like I am focusing my dislike too much on the heroine, but I also hated the hero.
I'd really get pissed at the author for this one, but I realized it was written in the early 80's and apparently rape was considered sexy then so I'll move on since her more modern stuff doesn't seem to have this theme.
I get that it works for the time period of the book, but it still sends the wrong message out there when these girls fall in love with the man who rapes them.
She's still doing this in the late 90's and I may still find later books if I attempt to read the rest of her catalog.
Lihat tokoh Drouda yg jahat, kejam dan manipulatif yg leluasa memerintah Brigitte untuk melakukan hal hal yg seharusnya dilakukan pelayan, sosok Brigitte yg penuh harga diri dan tak banyak berterus terang serta pemaaf, serta Rowland yg cukup bodoh untuk tidak melakukan peyelidikan terhadap kebenaran yg disampaikan Brigitte.Ingin kasih tahu Rowland yg sebenarnya, tapi tak bisa.
Apadaya aku hanyalah seorang pembaca yg harus menyelesaikan bacaannya karena penasaran akan nasib percintaan Brigitte dan Rowland yg dari awal pertemuan mereka sudah banyak terjadi kesalahpahaman.Tidak puas karena tokoh Drouda tidak mendapat balasan yg setimpal (maunya dibuat mati saja ditebas pedang Quintin atau Rowland, lebih bagus lagi diterkam oleh Wolff.
my problem with the book stems more from the poor character development, and the lack of any real agency in her characters until the end.
I suspect this was her first book, though not the first one published, if you get my drift.Never mind the rape.
That's how these books went in those days.
And an argument could be made that rape was more acceptable in that day/age.
And since it's women reading these, one hopes it won't have a negative impact on how men treat women.
Maybe on him women let a man treat her.
3.5 rating, it was good for a medieval tale, had a few good twists. But left important threads dangling a bit. I find I need justice served not just implied. Happened more than once. Not bad but not great.
Now this is the type of book that makes Johanna's name a well respected historical romance author.I think that me saying I go over this book many times a year even though I remember and know everything that happens, speaks for itself, does it not.?.
But he knew he wanted Brigitte's love."thought Rowland spends a little too long under the misguided impression that Brigitte's a liar and she and Quintin are a thing when they're actually brother-sisterit was very sweet that they end up having twins - boy and girl (hide spoiler)]
Berhubung "kesalahan teknis" mengira Brigitte sdh gak virgin lagi, si bibi jahat membuang Brigitte dgn menyerahkannya pd hero di novel ini, Rowland of Montville.Lagi-lagi salah paham dan termakan hasutan bibi jahat, Rowland percaya mentah2 bhw Brigitte itu budak yg banyak tingkahnya, berlagak seorang lady.
Rowland ini emang IQ-nya rada jongkok (berbanding terbalik dgn ukuran badannya) dia benar2 percaya pd omongan bibi jahat dan tidak mengindahkan sama sekali perkataan Brigitte.
Ada bbrp kejanggalan situasi spt manakala Brigitte mengira Rowland akan saling membunuh dgn ayahnya, Luthor.
Kadang keluguan Brigitte sptnya terlalu dibuat-buat dan ngeselin.Selain ttg jatidiri sebenarnya Rowland yg terungkap belakangan, tidak ada yg istimewa dari novel ini.
È talmente tanto ridicolo che non sono sicura meriti neanche una stella.
Talmente tanti difetti che non so da dove cominciare.
Non so come si possa definire trama quanto ho appena letto, il complotto della famiglia è paradossale, il cambiamento di lui infondato, lei assolutamente frustrante, la storia idem, drammi senza capo né coda, situazioni complicate che si risolvono senza una reale motivazione.
È tutto insopportabile, sono talmente tanto arrabbiata che non ho parole.
Non riesco assolutamente a spiegarmi come sia possibile che abbia davvero queste recensioni, ripeto è assolutamente RIDICOLO.
With a plot that tells of a hard warrior, who-- despite being a bastard-- will inherit lands and riches, you wouldn't think he'd be so stupid to not see a lady when faced with one!But ho!
A man of war having no doubts that he will sire bastards all over France...
to see him in such a state!
But by God, is he really stupid not to realize his children when he sees them?
Not them too 😂 God, gotta take two stars for that.
Tan horrible como lo esperaba. Es tan caotica y pasan tantas cosas estúpidas e innecesarias que ni sé por donde empezar a criticar. Desde personajes estereotípicos hasta una ambientación completamente errónea y una representación de las costumbres totalmente alejada de la realidad. Un caos de sucesos que simplemente sirven para llenar páginas. Desconozco completamente a esta Johanna Lindsey porque me consta que tiene buenos libros.Es decepcionante que por culpa de estas novelas se critique a todo el género, porque no todo es Harlequin, "bodice rippers," o Fabio.
This book has frustrated me on every level. It was a Love-hate kind of relationship and the ending was so annoying that I have just flipped through the very last page because of the unending drama. The conflict of the story which is mostly a major misunderstanding has been very repetitive I think they have just wasted a few pages and my time. However, all in all, I still give it a three for a well-told story.
I don't really know what to say about this book.. It was entertaining enough, but I couldn't help feeling that something was missing from it. I still don't know exactly what that could be, maybe it was the lack of originality (or just the fact that I've probably read too many of these books, to actually see much difference in them). hehe.
Un libro ligero, fresco, de lectura rápida con el ries, lloras, te emocionas, pasas por la mil y una emociones. Mil veces recomendado. Quede totalmente enamorada de la forma de narrar de la autora y es poco predecible por lo que no sabes lo que pasara después. Muchas felicidades a la autora.
Ugh, I really really hated that hero. Abusive rapist pig.Sure, it's probably true to the time it takes place in, but I didn't find it at all romantic.
So far, my fav two Lindsey's have been Man of My Dreams and Captive of My Desires. This one, pretty bad. Very stilted dialogue. No chemistry. .
She was born a lady, heiress to rich French estates. But when Rowland of Montville captured her, he saw only a beautiful girl garbed in peasant's rags... a wench to serve his wants.
