https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2334751.This_Charming_Man
This novel is so mixed and varied in terms of the style it is written in, and while it makes it a fresh and an interesting read, at times it doesn't feel appropriate.
Perhaps it is not a bad thing, perhaps it gets more people to read about such a difficult topic, but this mixing of styles makes the novel seem less real and not 100 percent authentic.
That is just my opinion.Anyway, there are four main (female) characters in this novel (Lola, Grace, Marnie and Alicia) and all four of them are startled when they lean that Paddy is getting married.
The following are among the reasons I am so distressed.The first 75 pages of this book (and periodically throughout the rest) are written in the voice of Lola, one of four female main characters.
I can't imagine why Keyes chose to OPEN her book this way.
After all the intense emotion, shredded lives, and decades-old scars that are revealed through the hundreds of pages of this book, I find the happily-ever-after ending a final disappointment.
I can only hope that Marian Keyes soon gets beyond whatever in her life caused her to write this book.
Ensure that you are ready to confront this imagery.I give this book 5 stars if you are not reading it as a beach read, typical chick lit book, or even a typical Marian Keyes book.
This is a powerful story that can be very disturbing (even if you have not been a victim of domestic violence).
The "voice" of Lola is written in very annoying fragments versus full sentences, but her story is worth hearing.I would have given this book 4 stars if I were rating it as a beach read, typical chick lit book, or even a typical Marian Keyes book because the humor and warmth is just not there.
This book has four narrators who all have a relationship (of some sort) with Paddy de Courcy, a slick Irish politician.
Keyes writes powerfully about a subject she knows well from her own experience.My favorite narrator is Lola, a 'stylist' (and who knew there was such a job?) with a most individual way of expressing herself.Next time I have a little hangover, I am going to be sure and use the phrase "rough as a badger's ass." Oh yes, I certainly am.What I learned:The difference between cross-dressers and trannies.What a stylist does.What a culchie is.That Marian Keyes hits another one out of the park.
I stayed up all night reading this brilliant book.
marian Keyes has never come across as being afraid of tackling huge and important psychologically real issues.
The characters are straight from the Keyes' domain; so human and full of their own faults and weakness that their virtues shine all the brighter for it.
This is what Marian Keyes does best and there is no better way of starting to read her books than by reading this one.Don't be wuss.
Get out there and spread the word of Marian Keyes.
Like another reviewer mentioned, this was less chick-lit than a real novel; and it was good.
It seemed like the changes were intentional throughout the whole book (always cookies, never a mention of a biscuit); but then in the last scene there is mention of children playing football (no need to worry, it's not ruining the book whatsoever)--but it's obviously soccer--yes, I realize it's the same thing, but they attempted to change everything else, so I was perplexed that this was left.
My favorite book I've read this summer is, This Charming Man, by Irish author, Marian Keyes.
But This Charming Man weaves together compellingly stark portrayals of alcoholism and domestic violence in a serious, yet sassy, page-turner that isn't, strangely, depressing.
Having lived through a debilitating romance with a verbal abuser--who most likely would have turned violent if I hadn't ended things when I did--myself I believe Keyes' novel will touch and empower countless women across the world who will recognize themselves in her brave heroines and therefore seek to end their seemingly hopeless situations.
I liked this book, but do not read if looking for funny, uplifting read.
The reviewers on back of dust jacket have obviously not read book or have seriously different sense of humor than I do.
Very little is funny in this book.
Book had slight flaw in that the ending could have been meatier...
If any of you read this...
read this book I need to discuss it with someone desperatly, is good book discussion book...
not necessarily fluffy read but good discussion read
This was a re-read and I'm so glad I have started to re-read because this is such a brilliant story with all the skills Keyes possesses to climb into other people's psyche and reveal their deepest thoughts and feelings.
Her combination of dark humour and serious issues makes for a hugely entertaining and moving read.Truly excellent - I am sad that I have finished this book - I am missing the characters already!Original reveiw:-Chick Lit at its best!
Compelling story of four different women linked to one arse of a man.
Written in four different styles and was both funny and emotional.
I expected to read this book and think, urgh there's another chick-lit same-old same-old.
Grace is sarcastic, witty, and the woman that binds all the plots together.Marnie is the sympathy character: that said, I found the way her little weakness was portrayed as brutally honest, showing the selfishness and impulsivity that is typical of her little problem.
(Don't want to spoil it)I LOVED the Friday night club at Lola's, and LOVED the way how it kept you on your toes: both the men I thought were the abusers weren't.
I didn't want it to end and I think I'll be reading some more from Keyes!
889 pages and I read it in 8 days, so that probably says it all.
Marian Keyes tells the story through the eyes of four women all connected with said 'Charming Man,' Paddy de Courcey.
Paddy is charismatic, powerful and women go weak at the knees when he appears....oh and he is violent and manipulative.It's a very fine book in that it deals with serious issues of domestic violence and manipulation and yet (as in all her books) is very funny.I think you could pick up any Marian Keyes book and enjoy it but this is one of the more memorable ones.
3,5Si tuviera que describir este libro, sería impactante. La autora nos hace partícipes de una realidad cruda y desgarradora, pero real. La forma de abordarlo de manera tan cargada de tacto y sensibilidad, me ha llevado a darle las cuatro estrellas. Por momentos puedes palpar esa desesperación, pero también se adereza con momentos muy cómicos y cotidianos. Como en todo no es todo sombras, si no que los personajes, poco a poco van abriendo la puerta a una realidad mucho más luminosa.
The different fonts for different voices were not needed and rather aggravating.
The clipped voice of Lola was beyond annoying.
It was insulting to the reader as if we couldn't tell the difference between the voices.
I've no problem with the subject matter - but what the hell did these women find charming about him??
With only a few snapshots of his bullying violence - how could we see what they saw in him?
A few lines telling us he's charming and much loved is not enough.So the book failed for me.
I could well believe the sudden violence.
Pity I didn't see the Charm.
Dear Ms. Keyes,Sometimes I cringe over my reading selections and dawdle before diving in...
Then I dive and there is nothing that can pull me away.
The worlds you create are so white, overwhelming so.
Characters such as Lola (darling though she is!) have an awareness of their whiteness, racism, and xenophobia, but it is an awareness that enables indulgence.
Lola's - or rather your - conscious invocation of racism, rendered charming through context and word play, is what makes me cringe and lament my fleeting addiction to your books.
How I wish the worlds of your characters were more varied, diverse, and heartfelt...
Reviewed by Claire AllanI doubt there has been such an eagerly awaited book as Marian Keyes' This Charming Man - how we have watched eagerly over the past two years as news of her latest book filtered out.
It was going to deal with domestic violence.
It was going to be very, very long (hurrah!).My excitement reached a peak when I discovered a copy just in time for my holidays and as I stroked the gorgeous purple cover I was dying to dig in - because let's face it, you know what you're getting with Marian Keyes.
Her earlier novels, the ones I'd found at least, each focused on one member of a family, and I was getting weary of them - started forgetting who was who, etc.But This Charming Man is a treasure.
In the two weeks it took me to finish it, I have fallen in love with Grace and her unique family, Lola and her trannie, and a boatload of other characters as they work so hard to figure it all out.This Charming Man is the first book ever to occupy both my "CHICK LIT" and my "HIGHEST HONORS" shelves.OK, Keyes, I'm back on board; queueing up for your latest.
You'll probably think that's because it's a story that is more suitable for women than for men - that's not the reason.
Or because the book itself is too long and doesn't end - that's not the reason either.So what is it?
In my opinion, this book should have been read as a paper book, only because I would have enjoyed it so much more.
Because even though it's the first book I read of Marian Keyes, I'm just in love with her writing.
And though the story goes on and on, when you think it's about to end, something new comes up and surprises you.
This is one of the best, yet one of the hardest Keyes' books I've ever read.
“This book was a totally new experience for me but I’m glad I tried it.”  Read this review in its entirety at Under the Covers Book Blog
Grace wasn't in bad shape, but the other two women were hard to take.
I thought Marian Keyes must hate men.Then the book took a few turns and I found it well worth reading.
Meanwhile Marnie's situation was explained further, so although her life continued to spiral down, I could appreciate why.This novel has one of the best descriptions of alcoholism I've ever read.
After reading the way Keyes covered these two issues, I was able to understand the weaknesses of the victims and appreciate their strengths.Lola's chapters were written in a strange, journal voice I found annoying.
I don't want to make any rash statements here, but I don't think that Marian Keyes is writing "chick lit" (god, how I hate that term) anymore.
She's writing serious fiction that also happens to be hilarious in places.
Keyes is so talented and funny - this and Anybody Out There definitely place her at the top of my favourite author's list (with Pat Conroy and Diana Wynne Jones), especially in terms of how consistently good her books are.
I think it's safe to say that Marian Keyes is becoming one of my favorite authors as I'm still reading this book, and no I haven't read anything else by her, but you just know when you stumble upon a good author that is loved by many fans.
She's so good in writing a character and making you feel what they do whether you like them or don't, it's all about keeping it real with her, dramatic but with a sense of humor, well rounded characters and interesting plot that keeps you on the edge flipping those 800+ pages quickly!
I also enjoyed her weird (to me) vocabulary and voice!
Reading this book is quite a departure from my usual taste. I used to read a lot more Women’s Fiction when I was younger and that was really before I found a real interest in reading. Marian Keyes has been an author that I’ve been meaning to read for a while now. However, THIS CHARMING MAN turned out to be a different book than I expected.Usually within Women’s Fiction and Chick-Lit in particular, you’ll find humor and an overall lighter tone. This book does have that upbeat banter but the topi
However, THIS CHARMING MAN turned out to be a different book than I expected.Usually within Women’s Fiction and Chick-Lit in particular, you’ll find humor and an overall lighter tone.
It’s all about domestic violence and alcoholism and those were the two main reasons why I wanted to read this book.
I’m all for cute fluff in Chick-Lit, but I had a feeling that this book would have some extra substance to it because of the topics it addresses.
I look forward to reading more of Marian Keyes books in the future.
Я буду скучать о доброй Лоле. Жаль, что это standalone роман. Чем дальше, тем она мне больше нравится. Душевно и без соплей. И без шорткатов.
War garnicht so meins. Habe es abgebrochen.
Logo no comecinho você percebe que ele não presta, e que está apenas usando a pobre da Lola como objeto sexual, quando ele anuncia o noivado com outra mulher e não se digna nem a dar satisfação para a coitada!Lola sofre com a indiferença do safado e sua cabeça e trabalho vão por água abaixo, ela é obrigada a fugir e se esconder em uma cabana do tio de uma amiga no interior.Enquanto a Lola está escondida, o foco da historia muda para mais três personagens, a jornalista Gracie que sabe que tem algo de podre na história de Paddy, sua irmã Marnie e a noiva do Paddy Alicia.
Journalist Grace wants the inside story on Paddy de Courcy's engagement and thinks Lola holds the key to it.
Alicia Thornton is Paddy's wife-to-be.
Lola has every reason to be shocked by the news that charismatic politician Paddy de Courcy is getting married-because although she's his girlfriend, she definitely isn't the bride-to-be.
Told from 4 different points of views, I found Lola's point of view very difficult to read as it kind of read like a blog entry, not always in complete sentences.
I didn't really like this one, and wouldn't recommend it - I was really surprised, though as I enjoyed all of her other books.
I'm not sure how prolific a novelist she is but to me the whole novel felt rushed, almost as if it was churned out to order.
Then there was the fact that ...Not so much a diary entry (not my favourite format at the best of times it has to be said) as, with its dates and times, what I felt was a FaceBook status up-date (complete with bad spelling and grammatical errors).
I'm afraid I found the way in which Lola's story was presented annoying in the extreme.
Ensure that you are ready to confront this imagery.I give this book 5 stars if you are not reading it as a beach read, typical chick lit book, or even a typical Marian Keyes book.
This is a powerful story that can be very disturbing (even if you have not been a victim of domestic violence).
The "voice" of Lola is written in very annoying fragments versus full sentences, but her story is worth hearing.I would have given this book 4 stars if I were rating it as a beach read, typical chick lit book, or even a typical Marian Keyes book because the humor and warmth is just not there.
Um livro escrito de uma forma diferente para abordar um tema tão difícil como a violência domestica 
