https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46202.Magic_Study
Maria has done it again, she's created a beautifully captivating story that had you on the edge of your seat from the first page until the last!One of my favorite series to date!
I would completely understand her anger if it were due to his treatment of her now that they are both adults, he certainly isn’t kind, or for the fact that he never told their parents that Yelena had been kidnapped, but as it were, she is angry with him because he didn’t try to save her when she was taken, as if an 8 year old boy could pose any type of threat to a master magician and his minions.
He even gets captured a few times, which is very un-Valek like.Yelena’s family…What exactly is Leif’s, Yelena’s brother, problem?
I’ve lost track of how many times Yelena gets kidnapped.
4.5⭐I hoped I’d love this book but I'm truly surprised at how engrossed and utterly into the story I was. The characters satisfied me to no end, the plot kept me engaged but more importantly, I loved and respected the way Maria V. Snyder handled sexual violence in the story. I was so close to giving this the full rating for that alone and in fact, would have, had it not been for one thing that, in hindsight, might seem minor but it was enough to genuinely irk me as it was one of my biggest peeve
Magic Study does something that is truly hard to accomplish in the sense that it deals with this issue in a way that shows the author is not just throwing these things in haphazardly for dramatic effect but utilizes it to show the real issues that are present in the lives of not just women, but men, and how this type of violence can severely damage a person’s self-identity.Snyder shows the realistic tumultuous toll it has on a person’s psyche, but she also shows what we, as a society, should be doing in reaction to facing the reality that sexual violence exists in our society, and we need to give as much care, compassion, and above all, empowering messages to any and all that have faced this ineffably painful experience in their lives.Now to what got under my skin:I love Yelena as a MC.
More like 2.5 stars actually, but I am being extremely generous in the memory of "Poison Study."I enjoyed the first 300 pages of the book just as much as "Poison Study." Yelena's relationship with her family and Zaltana clan, the world of Sitia, the magic lessons, the mystery of a magician serial killer and political intrigue involving a contender to Ixian throne - all these aspects were written very well and in a very engaging manner.
Uh-uh. Uh-uh. Fluff and hot air, hot air and fluff.I'll see if a full review is worth my time.EDIT 12/06/2016: Now I've read the third book and I can rightly say it: a full review isn't worth my time. Pardon me this time around.
❝Every decision, every interaction, every step, every time you get out of bed in the morning, you take a risk. To survive is to know you're taking that risk and to not get out of bed clutching illusions of safety.❞ Rating: ★★★I still have a love for Yelena. My love for her just grows because of how strong she is becoming and how much of a better heroine she is willing to make herself. I don't think I've ever loved a female protagonist so much. She keeps everything so balanced. The only thing I
I also wanted Janco and Ari to grow a better friendship with Yelena and for Irys to join the "squad."Although Magic Study was so different than Poison Study, there were some things I did like about it and I guess had me hooked on them.
Yelena was still the strong heroine and she was only growing stronger!Like I said before, I was upset how there weren't many moments of Valek, Janco and Ari. I literally fell in love with all 3 since the beginning.
An orphan no longer, Yelena travels to the exotic, southern land of Sitia in order to reunite with her lost family and to hone her magical abilities before she accidentally harms others, or even herself.
“Trust is peppermints.”My absolute favourite aspect of this novel, strangely enough, was Yelena’s horse, Kiki, with whom she was able to communicate with telepathically.
(#SorryNotSorry) While this did give a Yelena a chance to grow and develop without them, it didn’t stop me from longing for my favourite northerners.
I'm kind of conflicted on my rating because I DO love this world and the characters.
But the writing is a bit dry and the plot felt kind of recycled here...
like once again there is a magician raping & killing young women.
Yelena returns to her childhood home after dropping off the rest of the missing girls from the first book.
Yelena spends a lot of the story training and/or trying to find the killer.
I'll still read the sequel because I like this world, but hopefully it's more interesting and there's some other conflict besides all of the repeated violence against women.
Considering how often Yelena was injured, captured, and beat-to-a-pulp in this follow-up to Poison Study - I felt this picture summed it up best:There are considerably more DOH!
Especially toward the beginning of the book, she didn't seem to be her reliable calculating and resourceful old self.Instead of reading, like I did with Poison Study, I listened to the audiobook for Magic Study.
Valek, Yelena's love interest, had a slight female sounding voice as well with a mix of a British and Australian accent.
I loved the first half, same vibes of Poison Study.
I think my main problem was with the villain, a different sort of villain would've been appreciated since this one was similar to Ryad (sadist and rapist and like in Poison Study both want the magic of some people).
I wanted more complexity.
Overall I enjoyed this book, while I wasn't disappointed, i wasn't wowed either.
Poison Study is better true, but this book is still worth it.
Now fingers crossed for the last book.
It's under 4 stars (and a 3rd book), hope it won't be bad!
I had such high hopes for the second book in the Study-series: "Poison Study” absolutely kicked ass and was a great mix of political scheming, romance, and magical powers with an awesome MC to rule it all.
She was still a nice person, and I liked how she helped Tula through her trauma, but I really feel that Snyder should’ve treated her better.But the reason why we don’t have time to patiently study is because Snyder really kicks the tempo up a notch when the second half of the book starts.
*4.5 MAGICAL STARS* "Every decision, every interaction, every step, every time you get out of bed in the morning, you take a risk. To survive is to know you're taking that risk and to not get out of bed clutching illusions of safety.” A little less good than the previous book in this series, but still very good nonetheless! Either way, Yelena keeps on slaying! You go girl!I've been struggling to find books with a female character as badass as Celaena from Throne of Glass, and Yelena is definitel
*4.5 MAGICAL STARS*
  "Every decision, every interaction, every step, every time you get out of bed in the morning, you take a risk. To survive is to know you're taking that risk and to not get out of bed clutching illusions of safety.”
A little less good than the previous book in this series, but still very good nonetheless! Either way, Yelena keeps on slaying! You go girl!I've been struggling to find books with a female character as badass as Celaena from Throne of Glass, and Yelena is definitely coming in a close second!Full review coming soon!
In this sequel to Poison Study (which I loved), Yelena must travel to her homeland to learn how to control her magic, and meet a family she thought lost forever.While I still enjoyed the book immensely, I felt that Magic Study wasn't quite as good as Poison Study.
Still, it was a very good story, and Yelena still manages to get into one scrape after another.
Although the fact that this will probably be the last time I read about him and Yelena (mostly him) makes me a little sad.Yes, I admit my Valek crush freely.Julie
Otherwise I would have been distracted wondering when I was going to see him again because he is my favorite character of this series so far.But since I knew that going into it I could focus on Yelena and meeting her family and getting to the school.
Well I was on the fence until the end when I clearly fell off onto the side I’m meant to stay one.
But I always love Yelena and Valek on page together and get lost in their budding romance.
This was much better than the first book!! VALEK!! I LOVE YOU And i want to get an Ari and a Janco of my own, where do i sign up??
I lowkey went into this book thinking I'd be disappointed. Why???? LOOK AT ALL THOSE MIXED REVIEWSSS. LISTEN, trust your homegirl over here and just go into this book with ZERO expectations. You'll thank me :'') I'm just super super SUPER happy that it didn't end up being whatever I originally expected. I loved this! *cough*  alright, let's be real when I say "loved this", I really meant Valek, Ari & Janco.
I enjoyed this a lot more than Poison Study! Cannot wait to read the next one!
"Many have tried to kill us. All have failed. I loved this!! I've read a lot of mixed reviews on this series and I've heard a lot of comments about how this series gets worse rather than better but I'd definitely have to disagree. I loved this second book in the series and I can't wait to continue on! I was definitely scared that this book would have that stereotypical second book syndrome since we wouldn't be seeing much of Valek but that never happened. There's still a little bit missing in o
I loved this second book in the series and I can't wait to continue on!
The plot has definitely expanded a lot from book 1 - Yelena was once a poison taster but now that's literally the least of her worries.
I was highkey concerned that Cahil was going to get in the way and make a love triangle but luckily that didn't happen.
I practically screamed when Valek was reunited with Yelena - I missed him so much but I'm definitely glad that Yelena got to learn and grow by herself first.
1.5 starsHuge, huge disappointment.It wasn't bad really, I just wasn't interested in anything at all.
I couldn't care less for anything that happened in this book, or care about anyone in it.
To me all seemed pointless.
The whole book, the characters and the plot, all was pointless.Leif character was absurd.
I spent the whole book waiting for Valek, and when he finally did appear, nothing happened at all, it was incredibly anticlimactic and disappointing.
I don't know where the characters from the first book went to put this Yelena and Valek aren't them.
I really liked this sequel, especially I enjoyed its magical aspects, which are undoubtedly the strong point of the book. Being honest, I feel that this book has taken a new direction, and this makes it completely different to the first book, even so, it was a lot of fun4/5 StarsYou can find this one and more of my reviews on my blog A Book. A Thought. In Magic Study we can learn more about Yelena's past, and we'll see how she has to face completely new and unexpected situations. Many aspects of
.Personally wasn't a problem for me at all, I enjoyed this book a lot, I loved meeting new characters and it seems very interesting to see where the plot is going now that many things have been clarified, especially the most important that focuses on the Yelena's magical powers and what they mean in this world.
“Your soul fits the void in my soul perfectly. I’ve no doubt you’re mine. I hope you’ll call me Mother, but if you can’t you can call me Perl.” This was so much better than Poison Study!I liked Yelena in this book, she was a strong character, she had multiple things going on at once and somehow found a way to juggle them. She did put herself in dangerous situations, but it was always with the best intentions. “Men exploded from the bushes with their swords in hand. But the element of surprise w
This was so much better than Poison Study!I liked Yelena in this book, she was a strong character, she had multiple things going on at once and somehow found a way to juggle them.
The storyline in this was quite different to poison study.
In this story Yelena got to meet her parents, discover a bit more about her history, and family, and also discovered a bit more about her own talents, whilst rescuing people and getting into trouble.
We got some more time with Valek in this story!
He really seemed to love Yelena, and I liked the way their relationship developed.
Unfortunately Yelena has to face all these problems without the help of Valek, who is tragically absent for most of the story.It was nice to see Yelena grow and come to terms with her difficult past while at the same time trying to bring her immense magical powers under control.
(hide spoiler)]One thing that bothered me was that the Ferde plot line (the stealer of souls) was the one that was supposedly the main story of the book, but it took the backseat most of the time.
5/5 “Many have tried to kill us. All have failed. my review of the first book in this seriesI am officially HOOKED, SOMEBODY SAVE ME I AM LITERAL TRASH FOR THIS SERIES. I devoured this book in a day and I am in love with this series. I haven’t been able to find a YA series that has grabbed my attention in years, but this blew my expectations out of the water.This book was entirely focused on Yelena’s magic and the magician’s world, which was quite a pace change from the castle politics and spy f
my review of the first book in this seriesI am officially HOOKED, SOMEBODY SAVE ME I AM LITERAL TRASH FOR THIS SERIES.
Kiki was the most pure and adorable character I have ever read about, "trust is peppermints" equates to trust is good.I loved that in both the books so far there has been a kind of crime/mystery element which literally has you guessing the fine details until the very last page.
it's more like, "OK, what will Yelena do next?" For most of the book, it's just her wandering from one situation to another.
People in both Ixia and the South suspect her of being a spy for the other side.
And then, of course, there are the people who really do want her to spy for them.Yelena must try to balance her divided loyalties while also pursuing the goals she has for herself...It's a quick read, and I'm not ruling out reading more in this series, but I'm also not rushing into them right away.
this book blew my mind away.This story has become my new obsession, I could write about how much I'm enjoying this world and these characters and this magic system.But I want to talk about something else and it is the relationship between Valek and Yelena because I haven't seen a couple so well done in a loooong time.
Is a well known thing that couples in series tend to be separated by different circumstances (usually at the end of the first book) which leads to the girl main character meeting new people and usually meeting this one guy that will become the second love interest in the story.
*4.5*  "Living is a risk," I snapped at him. "Every decision, every interaction, every step, every time you get out of bed in the morning, you take a risk. To survive is to know you're taking that risk and to not get out of bed clutching illusions of safety."  I LOVED THIS ONE!! This picks up directly after Poison Study with Yelena going off to meet her family and getting to know her magical abilities. There's a lot of mystery, magic, awesome new characters, some romance, family, kickass battle
To survive is to know you're taking that risk and to not get out of bed clutching illusions of safety."   I LOVED THIS ONE!!
This picks up directly after Poison Study with Yelena going off to meet her family and getting to know her magical abilities.
"And I did it."   It was really cool watching Yelena grow to be more powerful and experiment with how far she could take her magic and we got to see this whole other world called the Citadel and the Keep.
Since I knew that going in I feel like I got to really settle into getting to know Yelena without him and appreciate her magical journey.
For the amount of pages it has it delivers a little on the development of the plot and it actually hurts most of the characters we met in the first book because instead of maturing they regress (especially Yelena, she loses all her rational thinking and becomes a concentrate of impulsive decisions), the romance was so good in the first book but I didn’t see any progression in this one?
The book could have had a lot going for it, the prospect of returning to Yelena's magical country of birth was quite an exciting one, and at first things were fairly interesting, but the story began to fall flat soon enough.
She herself talks about how forcing knowledge out of another persons mind with magic is akin to rape, and she should know, but she continously uses her magic on other people, including mind-reading, without consent.
Their relationship was still new when this novel started, it could have made things quite interesting, as Yelena was forced to leave Valek just as they had truly realised their feelings for eachother.
MEOW DEFINITELY NOT AS GOOD AS POISON STUDY. Poison Study was a total winner (4.5 stars), this book was quite boring and flat. I think I am going to read Fire Study though because I think it has potential.
“Trust, Kiki said, Trust is peppermints.”  Oh, How I adored Yelena's horse! Sometimes, simply is the happiest way of thinking.>Gimme quirky, magical talking horse and I'd be satisfied.<I also absolutely adored Yelena’s relationship with her friends Ari and Janco. They were so sweetly, brotherly protective about her and fun to be around.  “I guess Cahil followed us,” Janco said. Scratching his scar, he added, “Of course, you didn’t want our help. Now I have to go beat up some soldier just
Sometimes, simply is the happiest way of thinking.>Gimme quirky, magical talking horse and I'd be satisfied.<I also absolutely adored Yelena’s relationship with her friends Ari and Janco.
>Definitely my OTP book friends now!<I very much adore Yelena's personality.
“Why did Mother ask you to help me rescue Gelsi?" I asked Leif."She thought I could assist you in some way.
I know that lot of people wanted more of Valek in this book.
I liked that this book was more focused on Yelena learning about her magical abilities and solving mysterious murders on her own.
There was a lot more magic, but less Valek.
