https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/215262.Two_Serious_Ladies
“What is there to be unhappy about now?”“ I feel so lost and so far away and so frightened.”Do we really need another unfulfilled-women-reach-breaking-point-and-self-destruct story?
These roadblocks mean our ladies are perhaps doomed, but they’re going to go down fighting (and drinking).“Darling,” she said, “something terrible has happened to that woman, I feel it in my heart.
“I wanted to be a religious leader when I was young and now I just reside in my house and try not to be too unhappy.”There’s something unsettling about this book because it’s easy to imagine that breaking-point isn’t as far off as we’d like to think.
One must allow that a certain amount of carelessness in our nature often accomplishes what the will is incapable of doing This is a weird little book with the weirdest people I have come across. The two serious ladies are adorably weird. Adorably impulsive. They make something tap against the unopened doors. To remind that don’t we all have that eccentric ‘seriousness’ within us which we got chained and domesticated like the most docile dogs. They make something flutter within. To just go where
This heady desire for freedom, for being dangerously uprooted from your place of security, for rushing back again and again to whatever the heart longs for.
Happiness and desire of the certain kind, which has been recognized only in the most personal spaces of their minds.
They have an unpredictable liking and disliking towards people.
Then when you know who you are and what day in your life it is and you still think you are sailing in the air like a happy bird-that is beautiful.
You can’t tell me you like to worry?
The slurs didn't help either, but someone's going to throw a tantrum about chronological universality if I go down that pathway, so I'll just leave that there.Look, if you're some sort of crazy like I am in the literal, biological, governmental sense of the word, you can do whatever with the crazy cause that's your life.
She was suffering as much as she had ever suffered before, because she was going to do what she wanted to do.
But it would not make her happy.
She did not have the courage to stop from doing what she wanted to do.
She knew that it would not make her happy, because only the dreams of crazy people come true.
She thought that she was only interested in duplicating a dream, but in doing so she necessarily became the complete victim of a nightmare.Well, that was a rambling gallop through the litany of first world problems faced by the bored if ever there was one.Did this book have shock value when it was first published?This nearly ended up being the first DNF of 2017, and part of me wish it had been.
I can't go with you." But our character(s) always say yes.That there are two main female characters, one entranced by very young female prostitutes and another following every man from abrupt to dangerous, speaks obviously of the bisexual nature of the author.
.Miss Goering (our heroine) by now was very anxious to get into the conversation."You," she said to Dick, "are interested in winning a very correct and intelligent fight.
I am far more interested in what is making this fight so hard to win.""They have the power in their hands; they have the press and the means of production."Miss Goering put her hand over the boy's mouth.
She has written a great book here, which oddly has all the lightness of Kafka when he is light, but a different kind of darkness.
This book is about freedom, and desire, but not exactly of the sexual kind.
I loved this book immensely and I think it is criminally overlooked and under-read."But you still look terribly morose.""I am less morose.
Just that the sexual component seems to be a result of boredom, or an extension of the character's independent searches, than something arising from lust or love.
Other than the stellar insightful sentences, the unpredictable movement, the rampant cleverness that never became cloying for me, the wonderfully dramatized conflicts between thought and action (ie, so often one of the ladies thinks no way she wants to do something and then says of course let's do it), for an American novel published in 1943 this one's a serious literary lighthouse for what once was called Women's Lib. Explicit physical lady love is still mostly under wraps in this and the book prospers thanks to that tension and subsequent attention to tenderness and affection, especially, as Paul Lisicky points out in the above-linked podcast, in the scene when Mrs Cunningham and Pacifica go to a rocky Panamanian beach for a morning swim after staying up all night.
"It wasn't exactly in order to have a good time that I came out. I have more or less forced myself to, simply because I despise going out in the night-time alone and prefer not to leave my own house. However, it has come to such a point that I am forcing myself to make these little excursions." – Miss Goering Two Serious Ladies was an absorbing literary train wreck that I just couldn't avert my eyes from! I was reminded of why I loved the documentary series Grey Gardens and The Beales of Grey G
However, it has come to such a point that I am forcing myself to make these little excursions." – Miss Goering
Questions that follow each viewing include: what is the definition of "normal" or of a "conventional" life?
Equally hilarious and grotesque, I had a wonderful time reading this little book.
I usually skip introductions, but in this case I found it so fascinating, and I was glad I chose to read it after I finished the book.
Messud sheds light on Bowles's personal life, and her disappointment with the mixed reception of her work.
As I quickly discovered, to make the acquaintance of these titular two ladies is to be initiated into a state of perpetual disorientation; I was not, I’ll frankly admit, adequately prepared, even if Bowles’s novel frequently brought to mind the work of her contemporaries Djuna Barnes and Flannery O'Connor, two favorites of mine.All three authors have an uncanny ability to distill unsettling visions of the world into terrifying portraits of individuals who, by simply defying the “natural” order of things, unleash an aura of chaos and existential anarchy around everything they do.
It is briefly mentioned in the book as a »dispensation from the world«, but its presence radiates through every sentence.The world as known to common people, without enough luck or money to follow every impulse to the end, is quite foreign to the two serious ladies.
A lack of any but prosaic initiative of their own, brings their fears to the surface and their world becomes as claustrophobic as it is free.
The child learns by trial and error, while they know no errors.
Sorry, Doug.
I've never been on a bad acid trip (or a good one either, for that matter) but this book is what I envision one to be like.
I read the great reviews, even went on-line at the midway point to see what I was missing that everyone else was raving about.
"Avant-guarde, modernistic, hallucinatory prose" is apparently just not my thing, although I will agree with the hallucinatory part.
At the end of the mercifully short 200 pages, I still have absolutely no idea what this book was about.
With apologies to all my GR friends who love this book, it just wasn't my thing.
Mrs. Copperfield's story is also quite sad, in its own way, and the world Bowles works with is truly awful, a tank full of sharp-toothed fish whose memories last only five seconds at best and who are half-unaware of their own desire to rip each other to shreds; the fact that it bears a tenuous resemblance to reality gives the book more weight than its loose collection of episodes might suggest.Not recommended if you require a plot.
(p.19)Found via a list of John Waters' favorite five books, and general rave reviews from trusted GR sources.
I think my enjoyment of this has already been summarized by my explanation in the comments section:"This is all I've read of hers, and I'm not quite done, but I think I love it.
Which is not so easy to do when your characters and storyline are this weird."I think I loved the first half, Mrs. Copperfield's story, a little more than the latter, but they are two parts of a weird whole, different versions of semi-self-destructive truth-seeking that feels right in some sense even through its inexplicability.
When they finally meet near the end, Mrs. Copperfield says to Miss Goering: "I have gone to pieces, which is a thing I've wanted to do for years." I was reminded of Kate Chopin.Mrs. Copperfield "hated to know what was around her, because it always turned out to be even stranger than what she had feared." And you get the impression that Jane Bowles was one of those poor people who actually looked around her all the time, and what she found was so much stranger that she had to invent her own hammer and nails and laboriously construct this strange little book about it, which barely anyone even understood a word of.
אבל במבט עכשווי לא מצאתי אותו סנסציוני או חתרני וגם אם יש בו חלקים סנסציוניים הם לא עוברים כמו שצריך לקורא בגלל סגנון הכתיבה.זהו סיפורן של שתי מכרות: כריסטינה גרינג בת למשפחת תעשיינים עשירה עם נטיות דתיות בלתי אהודה בעליל בחברה ופרידה קופרפילד .
בעלה נוטש אותה או היא נוטשת אותו תלוי איך מסתכלים על זה, ופרידה קופרפילד מתגלגלת בין זונות בארים ובתי מלון זולים יחד עם פסיפיקה אותה היא לא מסוגלת לעזוב.בסוף הספר כרסטינה גרינג ופרידה קופרפילד שבות ונפגשות.
I must confess, I picked this novel up only because I’d recently read that the wife of Paul Bowles (a rather well-regarded twentieth-century itinerant writer and composer) was the author and was, herself, a woman of much talent but limited repute. I believe I actually saw her described as “a writer’s writer.”If so, I guess I ain’t no writer – or, at the very least, I can’t support that particular view of Jane Bowles’s work. Two Serious Ladies  is, in a nutshell, bizarre – and I don’t mean becaus
I really wanted to like it – and to be able to declare with Claire Messud, who wrote the Introduction, that “I (too) simply could not put it down.” My problem was the opposite: I kept having to poke myself to pick the book back up and read more of Ms. Bowles’s drivel.Yet I plunged on, wanting to find out why: “John Ashbury called Jane Bowles ‘one of the finest modern writers of fiction in any language’; Alan Sillitoe anointed the novel ‘a landmark in twentieth-century American literature’; Truman Capote deemed her ‘one of the really original pure stylists’; James Purdy said she was ‘an unmatchable talent’; and Tennessee Williams (once again) announced that she was ‘the most important writer of prose fiction in modern American letters’” – all on p.
Ahhh, this is getting serious: another book about people who I didn't necessarily like, but that greatly reminded me of myself.
Having said that I didn't necessarily like the people in this book, I should cement that I did love them as characters.
Their constant state of wanting, without ever quite knowing what they're wanting.
And their constant state of finding, without quite ever knowing they've found.
I could go on and on about this book, talking about how the floating structure perfectly matched the character's searches, or how the book was amazingly erotically charged, without having much (any?) in the way of sex, but the book should be experienced as itself, by itself, and for itself.
Neither are enamoured of her decision, to remove them from her previous comforts, which they were quite enjoying.“In my opinion,” said Miss Gamelon, “you could perfectly well work out your salvation during certain hours of the day without having to move everything.”“The idea,” said Miss Goering, “is to change first of our own volition and according to our own inner promptings before they impose completely arbitrary changes on us.”Once on the island, still restless, she abandons her invitees and takes the ferry to the mainland, opening herself up to whatever random encounters await her, as if seeking her destiny or some kind of understanding through a series of desperate and reckless acts.Mrs Copperfield seems less to seek out the depraved, than be attracted by a perceived sense of belonging, she spurns the comfortable, pretentious trappings of the Hotel Washington, declines to go walking in the jungle with her husband and instead takes the bus back to the women she has met at the Hotel les Palmas whom she feels an affinity with, despite their lives of poverty and prostitution being so far removed from her own.
The waiter was terribly shocked and felt that he had better say something.“Look, Andy,” he said in a very small voice, “Why don’t you get up off your knees and think things over?”“Because,” said Andy, raising his own voice more and more, “because she daren’t refuse a man who is down on his knees.
It would be sacrilege.”“I don’t see why,” said Miss Goering.“If you refuse,” said Andy, “I’ll disgrace you, I’ll crawl out into the street, I’ll put you to shame.”“I really have no sense of shame,” said Miss Goering.I greatly enjoyed the characterisation of Miss Goering, Miss Gamelon, Mrs Copperfield, et al.
Two Serious Ladies: Jane Bowles. It is a great loss to literature that due to illness, both physical and psychological, that Two Serious Ladies represents the only full-length work produced by Jane Bowles. Only from this novel and a slim collection of short stories, " Everything is nice", in particular, can it be surmised what might have resulted from her long residence in Morocco and the relationships that she formed there. It can only be speculated as to what a mine and minefield such work mig
It is a great loss to literature that due to illness, both physical and psychological, that Two Serious Ladies represents the only full-length work produced by Jane Bowles.
Improbable but not impossible, Mrs. Bowles, in creating her strange and unnerving world never extends beyond the realms of reality.
Both Mrs. Copperfield and Miss Goering seem to form and discontinue relationships in a decidedly arbitrary manner.
The world she portrays with its random connections and the changes of direction is strangely portentous of our own age where people meet total strangers on the internet and arbitrarily abandon their settled lives to pursue them.
Her people were mournful, impulsive, and as erratic in their particular journeys' flights as bats.The two serious ladies of the title are Christine Goering and Mrs. Copperfield.
At first, we have a section on Miss Goering, in which she meets Mrs. Copperfield.
All places are more or less alike."Curiously, it is Miss Goering who does most of the moving, while Arnold comes across as a couch potato.My only problem with Two Serious Ladies is that, without any real organization, the book could have gone on forever and stopped at any point.
(Jane Bowles and Cherifa in Tangier, Morocco circa 1948)A bird who tries to fly higherFlies into the blueA lady who strives to rise higherShe wears a high heel shoe…What made Mona Lisa smile?(Es una sonrisa eterna)Learn not to run when you hear it call(La cual no puedes cambiar)It is not a lullaby(Su cantar es diferente)And the call of the wild is not a difficult song(Con su tonada bestial)No, the call of the wild is not a difficult song(Con su tonada bestial)- David Byrne
okay, i've been trying to only write reviews of books i am reading/ have read from 'here on out', but while cold and arthritic over the space heater at work, looking at too many wilty, bruised post- thanksgiving flowers, i remembered this book, and i felt warmer inside, as though i had sipped hot saki, or taken a large drink of whiskey.
the only drawback is the hunger i have for more jane bowle as there is scant.
then my need for jane bowles increases, biologically, my system cries out for her, in order to acheive stasis, a sense of normalcy in the world.
whose words will soothe my jane bowles dt's?
4.5the kind of book where i am so much looking forward to re-reading it.
Well this was a bit of a strange and uneven read, but apparently Bowles' only novel is considered a modern classic. Two women who subvert societal expectations, some witty prose, but long stretches of story to a puzzling end. Have you read this one? What did you think? What did I miss?
populated by persons afflicted -- the two serious ladies of its title most so -- by some hilarious strain of nutty.
"saint" a title to use advisedly, but there is something of the seeker and holy fool about these characters.
an air of privilege perfumes our ladies but their disavowal of it through the casual violation or even destruction of propriety makes it seem the transgressions and non sequiturs are actually the fastidious following of a much higher order.
it's madcap, movingly in touch with despair, structurally profound, and in the best sense foolishly holy.
Self destructiveness isn't as easily idealized as you get older." It's true.
One of the most inconsequential books ever.
There is virtually no connection between Mrs Copperfiled and Christina Goering, except that initially they belong to the same New York social set.
Then Mrs Copperfiled reluctantly follows her husband on a trip to South America, but whereas he is adventurous, she panics all the time and quickly decides to stay put in Panama with a new group of friends, namely Pacifica, a young prostitute, and Mrs. Quill who owns the hotel where Pacifica lives and turns tricks.
Did we even read the same book?
Jane Bowles (wife of Paul) produced only this novel, a play, and some short stories and letters, but she has a cult following that apparently included Tennessee Williams, who called this his favorite book.It just so happens that there's a passage about gin that will give you a taste of her weirdly wonderful style:"Now for a little spot of gin to chase my troubles away.
I'm going to suggest a strange little gin drink called pink gin that nobody drinks anymore, perhaps because it isn't very good.
Pacifica is easily my favorite character in the whole book.
I love that, like a lot of my favorite books, there is no sense of what is going to happen, or that anything will ever come together or make sense (spoiler: it doesn't) but, unlike others I've read, rather than letting the main character(s) just spiral through the book abandoning attachments, every person they've met seems to hang on desperately way after they have any reason to be there.
I relate to both Miss Goering and Mrs. Copperfield a lot in this way, because I also tend to develop friendships with occasionally desperate people that are more often than not a bad idea, but that doesn't mean I wasn't mentally screaming "no!
Dedication: To Paul, Mother, and HelvetiaWith a new Introduction by Francine du Plessis Graypaperbac
