https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23586165-greensleeves
You can read a hundred books, even good ones, without finding one that effects you in a meaningful way.
It's chockfull of gentle but unflinching insights into human nature.
I felt—and I suspect that anyone who has ever felt alone or adrift (that is, everyone) would feel similarly—as though I were reading a fictional account of my own struggles and insights over the last few years.
I very much recommend the story.
I hope you read it.
But if you do, be prepared to take good, long, hard look at yourself, or you'll miss the story's power.
Be prepared to use it.
Liked it just as much as the first time.It's been a long time since I read a book that just made me want to gush incoherently—and I never expected the next one would be a 1960s young-adult novel.Shannon Lightley has spent her life being shuttled all over the world between famous and glamorous parents and step-parents, not to mention some aunts and uncles.
I like to think it turned out the way I always hoped it would.After all, you can play "Greensleeves" with a major chord at the end if you want to.
Since the review made it sound incredibly interesting, it was $1.99 on kindle, I still have gift card (I tend to hoard it for moments like this), I'd really enjoyed the author's The Golden Goblet and Moccasin Trail and my library doesn't have Greensleeves, I decided on impulse to buy it.
Greensleeves is a 60s teen contemporary novel with a dash of mystery and intrigue and a lot about finding direction in life.
As for teen fiction, I have a friend who reads a lot of it and her reviews are usually enough to steel my determination to avoid it.
Shannon Lightly has just graduated from high school after a life time of living in Europe and the US, either with her mother, her father or her aunt.
Bear in mind that this was written and set in the 1960s, when you could do that and be paid from the till.Although Shannon has traveled alone from one parent to another, this is the first time she is really and truly on her own, and while trying earnestly to gather information, she meets Sherry (George Maynard Sherrill) who takes to her immediately.It's easy to see, while reading this, why Eloise Jarvis McGraw, who won the Newberry Honor three times in as many decades, published so many books; she knew how to write.
Now that I think about it, all of her books hold a sort of dreamy wistfulness to them.
The different boarders Shannon lives with are all unique and really bring the story to life.
Reading this book was like walking along a path in a park.
What I found was the path itself was more or less the destination, and when you come to the end of the book the story or path never really ends either.
I think on a whole it fit the book much better than if she had tied up all the loose ends completely, it fit the style of the story.
Our eighteen-year-old heroine is a girl who has been haphazardly raised by seven different parent-figures, including her divorced father and mother, while being dragged up and down across Europe.
This message is all the more powerful because, rather than being assumed, it is discovered by the heroine in a slow and non-preachy way.
Community and revealed beliefs are an important part of this process.There is some truth to the book’s thesis that we can’t save each other and that we must find our own inner courage, and I am ready enough to accept the idea that these particular characters really did need to make the choices they did.
This is a growing pains type of book, something that makes you look at being a young adult stuggling with growing up in a different way, maybe in a wring you out kind of way.
Possibly the only other books that made me feel this way would be the series by Megan McCafferty.
And that included very wide reading in adult books at that time.
In fact, much of the popular adult literature I read in the sixties mixed the two--usually mistaking attraction-at-first-sight for actual love, which usually ends in tragedy in real life.
It was kind of a sad book though with a semi-happy ending.The mystery part of the book takes up only about half the book and the rest a very complicated romance.
****SPOILER Lines****"It doesn't say very much about-anything.
But it does tell where I am."Usually I don't like the fill in the blank, you get to decide how this ends, kind of writing.
Anyways still a great line!
And to end this kind of random review I must say that I absolutely ADORE the cover!
http://wordnerdy.blogspot.com/2015/11...http://wordnerdy.blogspot.com/2016/10...I'd never heard of this book or this author before (though she apparently wrote some of the later Oz books), but it's one of the ones Nancy Pearl had reissued, which was enough of a reason to check it out (another reason: it's $1.99 for Kindle right now).
So when a family friend enlists her help in determining if an elderly woman's will--with a number of odd bequests--was tricked out of her, she's happy to go undercover as a beehived waitress in Portland, Oregon, and get to know the locals.
Really, just wonderful.
The book was charming in a lot of ways.
The author did a lovely job of bringing around small details and turns of phrase multiple times.
I appreciated that she'd thought out her whole book well enough not to drop small nuances.
My favorite of these was a few references to the bandicoot's "expert dodging." The tension between Dave and Shan is contrived, but the situation they end up in serves a good role for the plot, so I'll forgive it (though I was not happy any time Dave showed up in the novel).
I can imagine having different ideas of what happened "after" the book ended as I grew up.

Eloise Jarvis McGraw wrote my favorite book of all time, so it's a little surprising it's taken me this long to read a second book by her.
It's a timeless story about a girl, a little lost and a little disheartened, who takes a leap of faith, moves somewhere new and goes to reinvent herself.
It's not a happily ever after kind of story, but it is a story about growing up and trusting yourself and taking chances.
It felt poignant and relatable to where I am in my own journey, and felt like just the right thing to read right now.
I loved the first 2/3’s of this book.
I loved how she looked at the difference between love and lust and didn’t immediately fall into either one.
And I like how the will just kind of quietly fell through with out much ado, especially when I’d spent so much time hoping that they’d get it and then realizing they’d be fine without it.
I’d never heard that song (or at least didn’t remember it) so I had to go look it up after so much of the book was spent talking about it and I loved how Sherry sent it as a letter.
I loved the first half of this book when there was a "mystery". I really did not like it when it was about Sherry and Dave. I found it boring and unbelievable. Disappointed in this recommendation.
Yet we see her in her totality, all the things about her, and we love her: we love her REAL inner conflicts about things, her sense of humor, her need to disappear from a world she doesn't belong in, her way of bringing people out (Wynola, Mrs. Heater) and charming Sherry, her way of understanding people.
That fright wig was just right."-DaveIn a conversation with Wynola's mother about it:"She's 100% better looking without it." (Shannon)"None of your business to say whether she is or she isn't!"(Mrs. Jackson)"That's perfectly true," I told her coldly.
I can see recommending it to our daughter when she is in her middle teens, since I think Shannon's struggles to figure out where she wants to go in the next stage of her life are things that a 15-17 year old could identify with today.From a more literary perspective, (view spoiler)[I found it very interesting how this novel writes against a particular strain of middlebrow fiction in which someone (usually a wealthy older woman) gets involved in the lives of various characters and figures out how to sort out their self-actualisation problems for them, usually with a combination of money and uncommon sense.
if you know of other books like this, please recommend them!).
Still, I enjoyed the slight mystery, as it keeps the story from getting too weighed down by Shannon's young adult angst.
I also think Shannon's love of writing could have been built up and foreshadowed, instead of just being discovered in a sudden moment of revelation.
Shannon did have to figure things out for herself--we always do--but lots of people help along the way.
This book isn't perfect, but I will treasure it for the setting, humor, and for perfectly capturing what it feels like to be on the cusp of adulthood.
I have been looking for a copy for Sherri for months now, and so i decided to read the book just so I be more familiar with it during my bookhunting.Essentially, this is the tale of a "poor little rich girl" who, having finished high school and not wanting to return to her ex-pat family in Europe, ends up working as a "spy" for her lawyer-uncle as he tries to figure out the intentions of an odd will that is being contested by a client of his.
I couldn't help but be a little impatient with the total lack of money problems this girl had.
However, what makes this book absolutely superior to so much young adult fiction is the wonderful and insightful exploration of lust and love.
I was much more impatient with the protagonist, Shannon, making a mountain out of a mole hill about her identity.
She's never trapped or stuck, money is no object.The only other thing I disliked was how no one ever called her Shannon, but Shan.
Well, there's been a lot of talk about this one lately, and since I've been trying to remember the name of a book I loved back in 6th grade and can't think of, I've been reading other peoples favorite books from childhood.
Nothing about it is what you think it's going to be.
The plot switchbacks and diverges, the main character Shan vacillates like a leaf in a gale...
and everyone around her is becalmed.
I cringed several times, sure, but at the same time considering this was written in 1968, it's also very honest and forward thinking in several ways.
But every once in while, I come across a new coming of age book.
And sometimes these books just capture your imagination and draw you into the story such as A Tree Grows in Brooklyn or I Capture the Castle.
Greensleeves is such a book.
As the last page ends, all I want to do is read more.A couple observations: I love that this is written in the 60s when rainbows were just rainbows, hair was done in big up dos and blue eyeshadow was the rage, and no one has electronic devices.
I am off to read I Capture the Castle again.
I read this book after a friend recommended it on her blog.
I wanted a light book I could read in one day, and this one seemed to fit the bill.
I really enjoyed the book while she was a spy (although I still don't completely understand why she decided to pretend to be someone else when no one from the area even knew her), but I liked how she interacted with the residents and searched for answers to the "mystery" she was trying to solve.
However, the last 1/4 of the book left me confused.
This is really a book about identity.
The main character has a famous ex-pat American father, a famous Irish mother (both divorced and remarried), family in Oregon, and has been bounced around Europe for most of her life.
Trying to figure out who she is, she spends a summer in Oregon, and to her surprise, spends it as a completely different person.I really loved this book, because it didn't pull punches.
Identity is not something simple, and getting to know yourself isn't simple either.
Sometimes you do things you shouldn't and you have no idea why, sometimes you want things you shouldn't and have no idea why, and there aren't any easy answers.
One of my favorite books ever. McGraw's eloquent language and detailed characters are just sheer pleasure. Of course we want it all to turn out happily in the end, but McGraw very sweetly gives us a real world ending. While most of us might read it now with a tinge of envy for Shan's cosmopolitan upbringing, I found myself this time feeling nostalgic for a world where you could just rent a room without a million forms, get a job without having to prove anything but your ability to show up and do it.
I was very disappointed in this book. I understand why it was never published or went out of print (I can't remember which, but this is a recent printing). It kind of had two premises, an unsatisfactory mystery and the main character's trauma. The ending was not satisfying, and the last quarter of the book was mostly just Shannon being utterly wishy-washy and second-guessing and overthinking, and while I recognize that is realistic (one of my roommates is this way), I have enough of it in real life and it is depressing/annoying to read for a hundred pages.
Speechless. This book makes me speechless. Shan is an amazing voice, but this book is so much more than it's main character. It's a book for international lovers, it's a book for quiet home-town lovers, and it's a book that will make you laugh hysterically, cry uncontrollably, and smile incandescently. A feel-good read for every girl on the planet.
This is my favorite book :-)
Joy because this is an amazing literary experience; exasperation because I love the ending while hating the fact that I am able to love it; and longing because the ending I want to complete in my head for Shan and Sherry is almost impossible.
Then she can start in on her real job: investigating the lives of her new neighbors to help her parents' close friend unsnarl a law case involving a most unusual will.
Let's just say I know a book is good when I have an ache in my heart the entire time I'm reading it, and want to hibernate for at least a year when I'm finished.
I've tried several times in the past to find it, but because it was written in the late 60's, no library or other source carried it.
While Shan takes on a made-up persona for the job, she confronts her own inadequacies and growing pains in the meantime.When I first read the book, I hadn't gone through any of these young adult anxieties and so I had imagined that that is what growing up is all about.
As an adult, having passed through all those heart-wrenching feelings, I could still relate to Shan's conflicts but knew what lay ahead and often became impatient with the drawn out struggles.
I was expecting a great mystery that I would never see coming and a witty main character.
I got a predictable (non)mystery and a getting-to-be annoying, undecided main character.
