https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10984.Three_Famous_Short_Novels
Sam Fathers dies shortly after.When Isaac turns 21 he remembers that scene of some years ago, merging his own reflections on freedom and property; and Sam Fathers, Boon and the bear become living metaphors for slavery, the endless ambition of human beings to submit nature and his own beliefs on liberty and of justice.For me, maybe the most complex of Faulkner's tales so far, but at the same time, an unbelievably beautiful utopia in which it's possible to believe that human beings can coexist in harmony with the natural world, even if our most inner desire is to rule and to finally annihilate it.THE OLD MAN"its folly and pain, which seems to be its only immortality: All in the world I want is just to surrender"Old Man is a devastatingly poetic account of a convict who is taken out of jail to help in a huge flooding in Mississippi.
Spotted Horses felt a little padded and boring, but had some amusing parts.
Old Man was much more interesting, although admittedly a little rambling.
It surely belongs in an elevated position along with the rest of Faulkner's great works.
However, I'm not sure if he ever hit this issue in such a direct or emotionally engaging manner.
Remarkably, Faulkner doesn't paint in broad strokes despite his subject matter, using local detail and social history to flesh out the specifics of this particular demise.
As with the best Faulkner, parallels abound between the local and the universal.
I only read "The Bear"(and only half of that) but goodreads doesn't have just "The Bear" alone, without "Spotted Horses" and "Old Man" and neither did the library so what can I do?
I adored the first half of "The Bear", which gave me a whole new perspective on hunting, but then it got all philosophical about the environment and I lost interest.
Sometimes I mystify myself.A few things confused me so if anyone has read this and knows the answers please pm me.******SPOILERS********** (as if)1) how did Sam die?
I envy few author's vocabularies more than I do Faulkner's.
The story starts with a simplistic plot of a boy (Ike McCaslin) participating in a ritual to reach manhood; but then divulges into many other critical American themes such as race, slavery, investigating the past, exploring the wilderness, etc.
Sections 1-3 are about Ike's participation in the annual hunting of the bear (old Ben) with his comrades: Sam Fathers (Ike's mentor who is half Indian and Black), Boon Hogganbeck (who is half Indian and White), Major De Spain (who owns the hunting expedition), Ike's Cousin and a few others.
Section three ends with finally these hunters killing Old Ben.We meet Ike again in Section 4, now a 21-year-old, relinquishing his property.
(And I will reread The Bear, as I think I will 'get' a lot more of it now that I understand the overall shape, timelines, and relationships - a complex, many-layered work.)
Three Famous Short Novels by William Faulkner did not let me down. Old Man made my eyes water but, The Bear turned the faucet on (if that makes sense?). Faulkner has not let me down yet.
19 October | I've just finished The Bear.
I liked it-- I was reminded of Gary Paulsen and Godforbid-- Why Are We In Vietnam.
I just finished Old Man and that's definitely my favorite or these-- though I must admit I'm not a big fan.
Old Man, I liked the best as I think I actually "got" it.
But, then again, I could be wrong.I definitely will look into a Faulkner novel-- he is a classic author, though, I'm not expecting much.
That was an adult's portion.
I loved it but boy are you made to work for it?
The first story had me chuckling in a way I can't remember doing to Faulkner.
"Hey!" I thought, "I've got used to his style".
The second story made me do a little more work.
I got a sense that both Cormac McCarthy and the Coen Brothers had read this one.
At the end I'd probably taken more from it than I would had he chosen to follow a more conventional route.An adult's portion indeed.
A writer who most definitely had something to say and his own way of saying it.
So to break it down:Spotted Horses is a comedic tale.
Honestly, it fell a little flat for me.
2/5Old Man is at heart an adventure tale and a tale of struggling to survive when everything has been provided for you.
There's a cautionary tale of how the prison system from time immemorial has only prepared prisoners to be prisoners.
On one level it's about a boy becoming a man and on another level it's about man's struggle for control over nature.
It seems ambitious to encompass so much in a little over one hundred pages, but it works well.
Reading these three novels was an interesting experience; there were times when I felt compelled to throw the book against the wall, and other times when I felt close to appreciating what it was that granted Faulkner the status his name enjoys.
This was the first book of his I have read, and it took discipline to read the entire thing.
He bends the rules of punctuation and seems to enjoy writing paragraphs that last 2-3 pages without break.
At times it's beautiful; at other times it's infuriating.
But, I must admit, in the end I was interesting in reading more.
It was interesting yet confusing, the way it jumped from past to middle to present. I did not know if or when he talking at age 10yrs or 16yrs or 80yrs old. I liked it very much and would mostly read it again.
Ok, these are great excerpts, but it is patently false to call these "Famous short novels"; these are chunks taken out of famous novels. This should really be advertised more prominently on this collection.That said, they are all excellent and do stand alone successfully.
I still read this guy for pleasure, how could you not. Not many people write the way this man did, and though it is not easy writing to get through, the rewards are more than worth it... The Bear is my new favorite work of his
In my first reading of Faulkner, found him quite turgid. The narrative is absolutely intense. Now for his longer works..
Does the man understand the use of periods and paragraphs?
My favorite Faulkner story. "A Rose for Emily" is unforgettable, too.
Spotted Horses has some funny bits but in the end, as far as I see it, is just a tragic recital of society's mistreatment of women; The Bear could have been good but Faulkner goes experimental on us (yes, I know, just as the young man is learning who he is and that makes sense but I don't like it) and, while interesting reading as an experiment and coming-of-age, leaves a lot to be desired.The Old Man is my favorite of the bunch because it doesn't try to be anything other than what it is.
a Texan has a bunch of wild horses and he sells two and gives away the rest.
Then there's a lawsuit for damages and the woman gets ownership of the wild horse, if she can catch him I guess.
And of course, one naturally gets away in the commotion and is presumed dead.
But he actually ends up in a boat with a pregnant woman who labors in the boat.
And then head back to Mississippi where he turns himself in but was presumed dead.
Finally catch him with a bad ass dog, but with a few casualties.
The language, cadence, punctuation ( and lack of ) all created a path of knee-deep mud that gave little purchase and only occasionally provided enough dry land to establish some forward mobility.
I had read Faulkner's major works years ago so wasn't unprepared but I struggled to keep reading and sometimes I sat back and just let the river of words carry me forward hoping to grasp a point or two along the way that would help satisfy the ending.
It's difficult to fault Faulkner in this, after all he's a much more renowned writer than I am a reader so in the end I accept the failure in fully grasping what the author has written.

Faulkner's stream-of-consciousness writing requires the reader to apply unswerving focus at every moment; read this book as you would any other, and you'll soon find yourself drowning in a morass of incomprehension, but corral your energy into exclusive, singleminded attention and, as a reward, you will enter 'the zone' to savor a rich immersion in the experience of human spirit.
Had I been creative enough, competent enough, to enhance and to embellish that sentence until it filled 50 lines of text (not that my sentence would even approach the eminence of one of Faulkner's), you might get an impression of how it feels to read this book.I enjoyed Old Man the most of the three short novels and even laughed out loud at the final paragraph.
I really enjoyed the second story and the first half of the third story. The first one was apparently a comedy which the humor was lost on me. The second story had a good prose and imagery, and the third starts off fantastically, painting a visceral picture of late nineteenth century woodland life, but it changes tone about halfway through, not to my liking. Still worth a read though. I expanded my vocabulary without a doubt
"All life consists of having to get up sooner or later and then having to lie down again sooner or later after a while." "A mule will work for you ten years for the privilege of kicking you once."Both the quotes above come from the story/novella "Old Man", my favorite of this collection. I tend to agree with Ernest Hemingway, who said of Faulkner in a letter in 1952: "I enjoy reading him when he is good but always feel like hell that he is not better."
William Faulkner is one of Americas most celebrated authors. I believe everyone should read something by this author. I personally had some disconnect with Faulkner's writing style, but I do honor him for his accomplishments as an author. I enjoy reading books from literary masters like Faulkner. Happy reading.
I particularly loved “Old Man” of the three but very much enjoyed the entire collection. I kept thinking how I wished everyone was reading what I was when going through the pages as Faulkner is just such a delight. I get excited every time I open one of his books and am very seldom let down. Great to rejoin the Snopes crew in “Spotted Horses” and “The Bear.”Fantastic trip of tales for sure.
To break up the three stories, Spotted would rate only 2*, Old Man 4* and The Bear also 4*. The Bear might warrant a 5 star if I could read Cliff Notes to explain and then read through the confusing section again where "he" as an adult is talking with his cousin McCaslin about their ancestors.
Interesting Stories but not the best
The Bear is a great introduction to Faulkner's southern characters and his writing style
It's Faulkner! Enough said :)
