https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17828418-fixed-on-you
Epic whirlwind saga as the Hudson Alexander Pierce sweeps biz grad of her feet into a world of excess, lies, deceit & betrayals!Books in Fixed series should be read in order:Book 1-3: Fixed Trilogy Book 1: Fixed on YouBook 2: Found in YouBook 3: Forever with YouBook 4: Hudson - Hudson’s POVAlayna Wither, Laynie has come a long way from stalking men in the wake of losing her parents in a tragic accident.
As they get fixated on each other the world around them plots to keep them apart; Secrets, lies, deceit and betrayal yet their biggest obstacles will always come from within…Hudson Alexander Pierce had me at hello.
I'm the author so I'm sort of partial. :)
4 StarsSo this felt very "Fifty Fresh Shade-y" to me.
'Fifty Shade-y" is super legit technical term, by the way.
You're welcome.But as I was saying.This felt Fifty Fresh Shade-y.
I thought it was cool that Alayna has some pumped up kicks - aka ISSUES - too - thus the "fresh" of my Fifty Fresh Shade-y.
I really enjoyed it.But, also as with Fifty, I don't feel too much urgency to dive into book two for whatever reason...I must admit, my dumbass didn't remember this was a same-couple/trilogy series - a format I just don't love all that much when I'm not in the mood for it.
So I decided to put down everything and read the entire series back to back.
Erotic and Intense are just two of the words that describe this series.
I could give you a million more, but the FIXED Series by Laurelin Paige is something that you absolutely HAVE TO EXPERIENCE ASAP!
It is an absolute MUST READ for the die hard romance reader in you!
Fans of the Crossfire series and other Billionaire Romances will rejoice for Fixed on You. Some elements are the same, the steam factor raised up a notch, but Ms. Paige gave us a fresh new raw romance, following two damaged characters trying to work together to make a relationship work.
If dominant and controlling yet tortured heroes make your heart race, then  Fixed On You  will rock your world!I totally loved this book!!!
Yes, many of the base points were the same as a lot of the other billionaire stories out there but the details were unique and so it definitely felt like a fresh story.The story follows Alayna who, as a result of the circumstances of her past, had developed an obsessive relationship disorder - meaning that she would very easily latch on to relationships and fall in love so much so that she'd strayed into stalker territory at times in her past.
I love being whisked away by a rich, damaged, sexy alpha male while being seduced one delicious, scrumptious word at a time.
Hudson Pierce is the new owner of The Sky Launch bar.
A wealthy, arrogant and sexy businessman, he has his eyes set on Laynie and it’s a little more than meets the eye.
Hudson is a man who ALWAYS, and I mean ALWAYS get what he wants.
It’s not your typical proposition but comes at the perfect time for Laynie because the life she’s worked hard to build is slowly fizzling away.
The best part is that Laynie and Hudson are both fantastic characters.
This started so promising and so good. I actually thought it will be some crazy shit to read, with heroine having past with obsession with lovers and having restraining order and with hero being (view spoiler)[psychopath incapable of love... i know... don't laugh :) (hide spoiler)], and i had so many possible scenarios in my head with lots of drama, angst, possible cheating, possible cliffhanger but....no....what i got was:sex, sex, sex, lots of sex, only sex, with some plot if you can actually
not how i wanted, I didn't need clean panties like the warning said, more like grinning bcoz of MC, or eye-rolling on some of their lines, or laughing at some ridiculous parts...so if you want a book with lots of sex, no actual plot that doesn't involve sex, and if you want to swoon over one delicious alpha controlling male...
I am finding this pretty hard to rate & review.. My feelings towards AlaynaHow Alayna seems to me in this book; My feelings towards HudsonHow Hudson seems to me in the book;Alayna's "job"See where i come from.. she is just called a *shrug* I mean seriously together they just seemed to be like; Alayna..Hudson's issues.. (IMO)The whole issue with the book for me is whenever Hudson acted nice or said nice things i was like Because i didnt trust him I couldnt get into the story enough for me to more than "like" it.
Ms Paige writes unique, flawed characters and while- in principle- Alayna and Hudson were written perfectly, I neither got sucked in nor did I particularly care about their story. That notwithstanding, I probably will read the next serial.
Having earned her business degree and trying to make the most out of her job in a high-end bar, she mistakenly thinks that sleeping with the right man will give her the place she deserves.
Vulnerable and wounded, she will catch the eye of a man so dangerous to her mindset that will shake all her beliefs and will open her eyes to whole new world of sensual pleasure and emotional stability.
Will they go against the odds and end up with a love of a lifetime?
NOW FREEEEE -- > AMAZON5 StarsFixed On You is the PERFECT light and steamy read.I just finished a really intense book, so I asked my GF what I should read to get me out of my funk, she told me Fixed on You. I can’t believe I waited to so long to pick up this series!Alayna has a problem, she kind of loves too hard.
I haven’t read a “cutesy” book in a very long time and I forget how much I miss these kinds of reads.The relationship between Hudson and Alayna is very cute, there’s a little tension and banter too.
Recommend audible version: YesStory Review: When I got this book 2 years ago, this was an unknown author to me.
I will admit that this first book in the series started out real iffy for me.
She kinda came of crazy in this first book.
The real reason I stuck through her crazy, was Hudson.
Hudson came off kinda mysterious and frankly that intrigued me.
On top of Alayna and Hudson's own brand of crazy, we get Hudson's train wreck of a family, and then there is his friend Celia.
She's fishy and I know I'm going to want to push her off a cliff.
"...you’re looking for something temporary. Something fun to play with.” I leaned even closer to deliver my punch line—the one that would deter even the horniest of men. “And I get attached.” I stood back up to my full height so I could take in his reaction. “Now doesn’t that just scare you shitless?”I’d expected to see panic flash through his face. Instead, I saw a flicker of amusement. “You, Alayna Withers, do anything but scare me.” Alayna is one of my most favourite girls and this is one of
In this story I really preferred the female character and I was at her side supporting her all the way, while I wanted to punch Hudson's face and make him bleed from the first time we met him in book 1 until the last page in book 3 -although, book 3 is another story, full of twists.Alanea is a survivor.
Moreover he warns her that he hurts people and he is incapable of loving anybody.Alayna needs the money and she also likes what she sees and so she agrees.
4 Stars*** Not reviewing this as enjoying just reading these... I'll write some thoughts when I finish the series.. But I made this Happy New All Xoxo

" His Low murmur had me clenching my thighs together, my panties pooling with moisture" " Well, didn't that have liquid pooling between my thighs" ( This is why I'm worried about her, she just met the guy and she is swimming in pools of wetness?) " Your body language expresses it quite well.
You're driving me crazy with your sounds and how wet you are for me." " My panties are, um soaked." " I can't wear them"and my favorite...
" I'm not putting on soaking wet panties.
If you like the Crossfire series, read this book!! Hudson Pierce rivals Gideon Cross as a book boyfriend, and Laurelin's sexy scenes will have you panting. I reread my favorite ones many, many times. The troubled but intensely sexual relationship between Hudson and Alayna will appeal to fans of Sylvia Day and Katy Evans's REAL. Read it in an air-conditioned room or turn on the fan--it. is. HOT.
DNF at 30%I'm sick of the dominant billionaire storyline. Just done.
This freaking book ends in a cliffhanger!!!!! News flash...a book with no cliffy has beginning, middle and end or a HEA. This book does not have a HEA...it has a "wait until fall for the sequel" at the end. God dammit doesn't any one write a full story any more????
What’s the job?”“I need you to break up an engagement.”“Whose?”He leaned back, his dazzling gray eyes flickering in the strobe lights.“Mine.”Hudson offers to pay off all of Alayna’s student loans if she helps convince his family and friends that he’s in love with her.
Little does she know that he has secrets of his own, Hudson is not capable of love.
This is us, falling in love.”I loved this story and cannot wait to see where the future takes Alayna and Hudson.
This was a really interesting book.
In many ways, it's like 100 books I've read before.
Rich guy, "poor" girl, an "arrangement" - However, Laurelin Page put a twist on it that has me hooked.
Hudson and Alayna both have issues.
BIG issues.
Issues that had me biting my fingernails through out the book just waiting for one of them to go over the edge.
I want to meet Ms. Page just so I can ask her where she got this idea from.
For those of you, who like me, cannot stand a cliffhanger, you are probably safe reading this one.
The arrangement is simple: Hudson and Alayna will pretend to date so Hudson's bitch ass mama can think he's "capable" of love and stop trying to marry him off to his "best friend" Celia.
We know you suffer from an obsessive disorder and need to be loved, which leads to stalking tendencies and hell, let's throw some restraining orders in there.
It's rooted in every gesture.I REALLY thought Alayna was going to drive me crazy with her OCD.
Seriously, woman, you've had restraining orders against you from men way less awesome than Hudson!
One thing I will say, I like how he handles Alayna.
Not with Mr. Draw-Laynie-To-Me-Whatever-The-Cost-To-Her-Sanity sitting at the end of the bar.’ Hudson Pierce – Mr. All Business, Mr. No Emotions, Mr. Holy-shit-you’re-so-freaking-hot-just-screw-me.
You couldn’t put a better couple together than Alayna (because he doesn’t call her Laynie) and H (her nick name for him….and yes I think it’s the cutest thing on the planet).
And there is so much more to this book than all the hotness...there's Hudson's evil mother (I'm not exaggerating...she is evil), the possibly evil 'friend' Celia...there's drama with Laynie's brother...so, it's not all smooth sailing and hot sex...but I tell you that's why it hooked me!
Loved it. We all have a little Alayna in us. Very relateable heroine.
1,000 STARS! "'No. No one controls me.'" Normally, when I reread books for a second time, I tend to usually lower my rating by a couple of stars. Why? Well, because I notice more mistakes and flaws about the book that I didn't catch when reading it the first time. Also, overtime, my likes and dislikes change from time to time, and maybe, I might not be interested in that particular genre of the book I'm rereading. There could be a variety of reasons why I lower the rating. But my point is, rarel
Normally, when I reread books for a second time, I tend to usually lower my rating by a couple of stars.
Well, because I notice more mistakes and flaws about the book that I didn't catch when reading it the first time.
This is one of the few books that after rereading, I love it even more!
Legit, I could give you an essay on why Hudson and Alayna's story is just perfection, but once I go onto "Rant-Mode," I won't be able to stop ;) So I'll just keep it with a simple sentence: This book was utter perfection.
Fixed on You is a story of two broken people who have urges to manipulate and obsess.
A game of getting what you want - a game of need - desire - a game of taking what isn't yours...
Fixed on you is the story of Alayna Withers and Hudson Pierce.An arrangement - a simple agreement.
But he is drawn to her and she can't seem to refuse him.Alayna has allowed the men of her past to consume her thoughts.
Alayna has a history of taking infatuation too far - letting her thoughts of man consume her.
To all my book pals who haven't started this series yet......Pull your finger out your arses and start reading!!!!!! I didn't have chance to leave a review before I started the next book "Found in you" cuz it was THAT good, you couldn't have tore me away even if you put Jackson from Sons of Anarchy in front of me ;-)5 whooping big fat stars :-) Note to those who wait for all the books in a series/tril to come out, I can't wait for the third one, January can't come quick enough
I've read some eroticas but the heroines weren't all like her!She was kind of the s* word.
She keeps on talking about how wet she is, the pool of wetness in her core, or when he looks at her and her sex will clench...I was like, WTF?!!?I know that this is an erotica but it could still be a fun, interesting, and amusing book without the heroine talking how sexually aroused she felt whenever she sees her guy.
It was seriously annoying.And I understand, Hudson's so hot and he's the only one who could make her feel like that but calm your libido, girl.And don't even get me started with her emotions.I'm done.
He is as sexy as sin, perfectly ripped, owns half of the US and is very well endowed *wink wink* Hudson is definitely my kind of man!
Then add in Alayna and her slightly crazy mind, a sham relationship and lots of steamy moments and you've got the perfect story!
She had been through a LOT in her life.Like I said before, I really didn't want to put this book down.
It was hot, funny, hot, feisty, hot, drama-filled, hot, and did I mention the super sexy, dominant Hudson??
Fixed On You is a sexy summer must read, and I can't wait for book 2!
3 stars .... Wasn't awful but wasn't EPIC ... Ugggg and ickkk factors here.... Beaucoup !!!Moving on Wheezy!
Hudson Pierce is a hot, rich, successful man who has women falling at his feet; but the woman he sets his eye on is the one that fights their attraction with everything in her.
I would have enjoyed the story more if we were able to see the different struggles that Hudson went through with his own problem, and how he chose to work on them.Of course, the chemistry between Hudson and Alayna was off the charts, and yes, there is a lot of sex; but it was HOT!
