https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49322.The_Introvert_Advantage
Laney goes out of her way to make sure you know that being an introvert is not the same thing as being shy or having social anxiety.
If being an introvert is not the same thing as having a social phobia, then I can handle myself at a party or on a date just fine, thankyouverymuch.
I'll never be the life of the party, or even the life of the conversation, but I'm an introvert, so I don't want to be, no matter how many lessons in small talk you give me.
It's not that I don't know how to ask the world's most boring questions to start a conversation.
I read it, and ...didn't like it.It took me a while to determine why (thus proving myself an introvert) but by the last chapters, I had it figured out.The title of this book is "The Introvert Advantage: How to Thrive in an Extrovert World.
As far as I am concerned, its title should be "Overcoming the Handicap of Introversion: How to Survive in an Extrovert World".Introvert strengths?
How about some time spent on how extroverts can learn from introverts, the things that we have that would benefit the world at large?Imagine a family where people thought before they spoke.
The two things I heard most in my youth: "Where did you get that red hair?" (which always struck me as wildly dumb, and/or inappropriate. what if I was adopted? or did people really think a first grader would dye her hair - dye it pumpkin orange, no less??)And the other: "Why are you so quiet?" (because I'm tired of answering stupid questions from complete strangers??)Anyway, I'm still quiet, and have married into a spastically extroverted family. I'm eager to read this book, and welcome any good advice (liquor has already been suggested).
This review has been published elsewhere as "Introverts Are Not Idiots."
Anyway, in Ms. Laney's book I read many things about myself that were eerily accurate, and that I didn't know were even connected to my personality type.
For example, Ms. Laney bases her whole explanation of introverts around the idea that introverts draw energy from within, and that external stimulation, whether it be conversation with friends or the infamous "smoky Las Vegas casino," drains this energy and causes introverts to, eventually, reach a kind of crisis point where they have to recharge immediately.In my own experience, this is fundamentally untrue.
First, she spends a lot of time making sure you’re an introvert.
Then she tells you how extroverts work and how they’re totally different from you and gives a tiny teaspoon of advice on how to interact with them.
Then she just blathers.
If this book were written to help extroverts (75% of the population) understand introverts, I might see the appeal.
But what extrovert is likely to pick up a book called The Introvert Advantage?
None of her advice will help you thrive.
It might help you survive, but that's totally different.
Things I learned from this book:- 75% of people are extroverts- introverts often feel drained or ove
I am self-reflective (if you haven't noticed!), contemplative and able to concentrate for long periods of time.-It was fascinating to read about how a collection of small things like a lower natural body temperature, a tendency for my mind to go completely blank if someone calls on me unexpectedly and an affinity for short naps are all evidence of my introverted nature.-It made me think about where my children fall on the introverted/extroverted spectrum and gave me ideas for how to relate to my daughters who are different from me in this area.
I seriously want to buy this book for every single introvert I know.
After that, I want to buy this book for every single extrovert I know.Truth is, this book has treated a topic that is seriously underrated and has been the source of my anxiety for many, many years.There are so many interesting facts/statistics that Dr. Laney throws into this book.
THIS IS ONE OF THE BEST BOOKS I'VE EVER READ!
It's all about energy -- introverts need to conserve energy while extroverts need to expend energy.
I've never understood why I absolutely hate the act, but now I do (you'll have to read the book to find out!
I highly recommend this for all introverts, so they can better understand themselves and know that they aren't weird -- they are actually quite normal in this extroverted world.
I also highly recommend that extroverts read this to better understand their introverted friends and better manage their expectations of their introverted friends.
(For the record, we are loyal, thoughtful, persistent, good listeners, good teachers, able to focus deeply, put ourselves in others’ shoes, think outside the box and make unpopular decisions.) Instead, most of the book focuses on coping skills for introverts who must navigate a world that values extrovert qualities.
Most of the coping techniques she shares are beyond obvious and some of them are touchy-feely-icky.
And I ended up flagging a bunch of pages for my extrovert husband and friends to read since they don’t always find my introvert qualities to be especially endearing.
I'm somewhere between E and I on the spectrum, and I have friends at both extreme ends, so I thought this would be an interesting and valuable book.
The very term made me snort derisively, as did much of the rest of the book.I can see that there's perhaps some valuable information here, buried under a flurry of pop psychobabble and self-quizzlettes, but I kept looking up from this book thinking I was trapped in a waiting room with a stale copy of Cosmopolitan.
Superficial, light, feel-good twaddle, that's my verdict.
You're good enough, smart enough, and gosh darn it...
you're reading a crap self-help book again.Bah, humbug.
I almost stopped reading this after 50 of its 300+ pages because I already know that I am a left-brain introvert and the material felt familiar.
The physiological explanations were new to me, and several times throughout the book, I discovered traits I didn't know were connected with introversion.
From reading other comments on goodreads, it appears that the book attracts mostly introverts as readers.
I find this unfortunate, as anyone who is more extroverted would probably find this a valuable read if they suspect they have an introverted boss, spouse, child, friend, roommate, etc.
it's okay, nothing is wrong with you, your brain is just different, because you're an intovert!-----in this book, you'll get a good amount of information about introverts..
So, if you're an extrovert, read this book to know who around you is introvert, and if you're introvert, it's good to know your self more and not to feel like you don't fit in or worse you feel that something is wrong with you!
I have an extrovert friend, who didn't read any books about introverts but she understands me ..
I enjoyed reading the defining characteristics of classic introverts and extroverts; it actually made me realize that my introversion explains a lot more about me than I would have originally thought.
You get the point.Before I make this seem like the best book in the world, I should warn you that it is full of A LOT of common sense.
There are many "tips" on how to survive as an introvert in a world where 75% of the population are extroverts.
Most of this tips are things that, if you have been successful enough in life to find yourself able to read this book, you likely already know, do, or don't personally need.
Granted, she mentions a few advantages like self-reflection, but she spends a lot more time calling out the ways in which introverts fall short of society's standards of social interaction.
Fortunately, the sub-title of the book, "How to Thrive in an Extrovert World" is entirely accurate, so there are some invaluable takeaways.Laney contrasts the characteristics of introverts versus those of extroverts as they apply to brain chemistry (yes, there are physiological differences between the two), romantic relationships, parenting, socializing, and working.
The message is: "Yes, there's a reason some people think you're anti-social or that you don't like them.
Every once in a while I come across a book that significantly alters my perspective, and very rarely, even changes my life.
The Introvert Advantage is one of these rare gems.
It explained me to me!
All of the weird things I do, how I get tired in crowds, how I dread going out, and will avoid social events if I can.
It's amazing the gift this book has given me and the people I love, because now I have the tools to explain me to them!
If you suspect you're an introvert, I HIGHLY recommend this one!!!!
Moments.” It is true, as an Introvert, I had many of these reading this book.
I have learned a lot about personality types for years now and read many different books, mostly focusing on the Myers/Briggs test.
You can take the test yourself at mypersonality.info This was the first book I had seen or read about introverts specifically.
It was wonderful to read.
It has helped me to understand more about myself and also my son who is an introvert as well.
I think understanding your personality style and those around you can help you in your relationships.
I really enjoyed the first part of the book where Dr. Laney talks about what introverts are like.
Since my son is even more introverted than me, it seemed like a good idea to get some more 'book learning' on the subject.
The parenting section of this book was good and well worth the time.
This isn't a book that needs to be read cover to cover, and, in fact, I pretty much skipped the dating and goal setting sections.
All in all, a good book with a good section of references for anyone who wants to read more in the various subject areas.
this is true but then the energy talk becomes boring.its not like i need a nap every time i meet with people.on the other hand,the book includes valuable information about introverts' patterns of behaving and suggests creative solutions to maneuver the world.
though i really hate the advice breathe i have read it as a solution for nearly every problem and it never works for me.i think some of her ideas works for everyone not just introverts.it is nice to read a book to help you get to know your self better.
It's longer than it needs to be, and her examples are so out of date that they're sometimes comical, but it's absolutely, positively worth the read. If you are an introvert, this book explains the physiology behind why you think the way you do. It also provides strategies for "surviving" in a world that values extroversion over reserve.
This unseated "The Art of Not Giving a F*ck" as my self-help of the year. I guess since it did not come out in 2017, F*ck can win for best self-help of 2017--but this book was fantastic and is extremely helpful for both introverts and extroverts to read. The science and biology part was fascinating, the tips helpful, and I have a better understanding of how to more peacefully (and productively) co-exists with friends, family, and co-workers!
After they realize that what they have said doesn't fit with the timing of the group or is a little confusing to people, they often conclude that they don't express themselves well and may stop talking altogether."• "Often, if introverts feel bad after venturing out into the extrovert world, it is the voice in their head, not something that actually happened, which is the source of the problem."This is all giving me even more food for thought as I've been doing a lot of pondering the last few months about all sorts of life topics.
You can be extroverted in some ways and introverted in others.
The book is divided into ten parts, each dealing with an aspect of life like love, family and work and how to deal with it.
Mostly the book deals with getting along with extroverts and to explain to them that things can't always be done their way.
The first nine parts are about understanding your nature and understanding that there is nothing wrong with you if you don't thrive in the thick of social things like other people.
I think most introverts have done enought soulsearching to know what they are like.
They can be easily overstimulated by the external world, experiencing the uncomfortable feeling of “too much.”For a more relative analogy, Marti writes on page 20:Introverts are like a rechargeable battery.
Extroverts are like solar panels … Solar panels need the sun to recharge – extroverts need to be out and about to refuel.After an intelligent introduction to the differences between introverts & extroverts, Marti goes on to cover evolutionary & biological reasons how & why the two key personality types developed.
While I had a feeling I was a bit of an introvert, reading The Introvert Advantage only stood to cement the concept.
I’ve known for a long time now that I’m an introvert—a person who’s easily drained by social situations and who needs lots of quiet, reflective time in order to recharge.
For instance, introverts are easily overstimulated and we like to have our own personal space.
We also store more information in our long term memory and because of that, we can forget things we like and/or things that we’re good at unless there’s some prompt there to help us remember.There were other things, of course, but I don’t want to recite the entire book to you.

Introversion is not a condition, it is nature and not nurture.
Especially interesting to me is the underlying science of neural pathways (shorter in extroverts) in the brain that explains the differences in processing external stimuli.
Introversion is not shyness, and I am not shy.
Extroverts like me because I am willing to listen as they think out loud and express, express, express.
But sometimes I myself prefer like-minded introvert types, especially for feeling heard and understood.
This book largely provides tips and advice for coping in an extroverted world, including how-to's for relationship success.
It would have made things so much easier.The focus of the book is on coping mechanisms for introverts trying to survive in a world run by extroverts, but she begins by delving into the psychology and neuroscience of introversion - how our brains differ, why we spend so much time with our thoughts, and why extroverts have so much more energy.
It's all a question of energy - extroverts are energized by external stimuli (they can't cope without it, in fact) whereas introverts are drained by the outside world.
Introverts and extroverts actually have different pathways in the brain, and so many things that the author mentions make my habits and challenges fall into one cohesive whole.
Now that I know there are reasons for my needs, I feel far more confident about being different and about taking care of myself, even if the extroverts in my life can't understand why I can't keep up.Oh, and it didn't hurt that the author mentioned a couple books that I love: The Highly Sensitive Person and Bird by Bird.
