https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120715.Pierre
“Pierre: A Cautionary Tale” is about a young boy named Pierre who never cared about hurting other people’s feelings until a lion comes for a visit.
Maurice Sendak’s illustrations may seem a bit simplistic, but the characters are lively and detailed enough to entice many children to read this book, especially of the images of Pierre with his blue outfit and his scowling facial expressions.
“Pierre: A Cautionary Tale” is a terrific book about the consequences of not caring about other people’s feelings and it will surely interest children for many years.
http://youtu.be/hCEBLHd0v6II've included a link to Carole King's musical version of this classic children's story.A fabulous combination of talent - Sendak's lyrical words and King's beautiful voice. The copy I read was printed in 2013 but includes the original 1962 cover. The artwork in this story is also really well done; classic Sendak style.What I didn't know?? This book is part of The Nutshell Library:One was JohnnyChicken Soup With RiceAlligators All AroundPierreTo sum it up this is "a story with a moral air about Pierre, who learned to care."I loved it!
Odd, but entertaining story about a little boy who doesn't care. I've never been much of a fan of Maurice Sendak's work, but I thought this was a clever and humorous tale. The illustrations are simple and the chapters are very short. I am not sure if this book is appropriate for younger children, but older children will likely be able to appreciate the wry wit. interesting quote:"The moral of Pierre is: CARE!" (p. 48)

My kindergarten class did a skit to the song about how Pierre doesn't care and for years I couldn't figure out where the song was from and why it haunted me. I would even sing the one part I knew to people once in a while and no one could tell me more about it. I finally figured it out at the Maurice Sendak exhibit at the Jewish Museum about three years ago. It was like a revelation.
A gem, to be sure with a solid moral. I do so love a moral.
5* art3* storyAs usual, Sendak pushes the boundaries in a fantastic and humorous way.
Author: Maurice Sendak Genre: Fiction Picture Book Publication Info: Harper Collins Publishers Inc.: 1991Reading Level: Ages 4-8Topic/Theme: caringIssues Addressed: It is better to care about something than to not care at all.
Classroom Uses: Read Aloud, Independent Reading Summary: Pierre responds to everything with "I don't care." He does not care about anything.
He does not care what his mother thinks.
He does not care what he eats.
Pierre is a comical character who learns to care.Text and image: The illustrations are quite simply drawn.
They correlate directly with the text revealing the hilarious story line.
I never really liked this one as a child. Pierre getting eaten because he 'doesn't care'? It always just seemed to me that Pierre was just trying to do his own thing and avoid arbitrary directives. OK, not pouring syrup in your hair is a good idea, but not standing on your head, and to be killed for either?!? The 'moral' seems more like 'conform unquestioningly to authority or you will risk being killed for it'.
Arriving homeat six o'clock,his parents hadA dreadful shock!They found the lionsick in bedand cried,"Pierre is surely dead!"hahaha
When I was little, my mother always pulled out this book and read it to us whenever we told her that we didn't care. Now whenever anyone says that they don't care, I automatically think of this silly book. I really like the book and the moral is a good one.
I LOVE Carol King's song about Pierre better than the book. I think it's because I'm not fond of Sendak's artwork.
Pierre is a boy who just doesn't seem to care about anything, that is until he is eaten by a lion. The moral of this story runs true for any parent, "care". The story and illustrations by Maurice Sendak are simple, stylized and interestingly enough the little boy resembles the little boy in Where the Wild Things Are. The story is short, and my children thought it was funny, although I found the repetition of the "I don't care" to be irritating. This was not my favorite Sendak book, but I see value in the lesson!Illustrator Project Book
I remember enjoying reading this story to my students, and I also enjoyed the cassette tape (at the time) of the story put to song, sung by Carole King. Cute story about a little boy with an attitude who gets eaten by a lion. When he gets shaken back out of the lion, he has a whole new attitude! :)
Pierre and the cautionary tale using the words "I DON'T CARE" until Pierre finally started to CARE!
"There once was a boy named Pierre..." I DON"T CARE! :P
Fantastic! Breathtaking! Original!
Prologue, from the book:"There once was a boy named Pierrewho only would say, "I don't care!"Read his story, my friend, for you'll find at the endthat a suitable moral lies there."
A plum perfect fairy tale, dazzlingly orchestrated with as few words and images as there were chapters and pages.
It's not very long, but it's also not very big.There's a little boy named Pierre who only says, "I don't care." His mother gets him up in the morning and feeds him breakfast, asking him questions like, "What do you want to eat?" And tells him not to sit backwards in his chair or to stop pouring syrup in his hair, but he just keeps saying, "I don't care." His dad tells him to stop standing on his head so they can go to town, and he doesn't so both parents leave him at home alone.
This review also appears on my blog, Read-at-Home Mom.Though I was always disturbed as a kid by the idea that a lion could come along and eat a disagreeable child, I still have fond memories of this book from first grade.
It is only after a harrowing rescue by his parents and a doctor that Pierre finally learns to say, "I care." As a kid, what spoke to me the most, I think, was the fact that Pierre finally learned his lesson.
So...in a nutshell: If you're a bratty kid who gets left home alone, a lion will break in and eat you.WTF?!?!?I know, I know.
I was busy reading stories about horses, unicorns, mermaids, and brave little boys and girls who ventured into the woods/jungles and DIDN'T get eaten by animals (not lions, not tigers, not bears...
It disturbed me NOW, and I'm about 30 years past being considered a "child."Gobbled up by a lion?
Certainly there are other ways to teach children to be better behaved.
Or how about tricking them to behave through positive reinforcement?But mauled and eaten by wild animals?
The story centers around an apathetic and disrespectful child named Pierre who is continuously indulged by his parents.
Pierre engages in spoiled brat behaviors such as pouring syrup on his hair and making messes for his parents to clean up, constantly repeating the phrase, "I don't care." While having something of a tantrum, Pierre gets left home alone and a lion eats him.
The lion gets sick from eating such a spoiled child.
It's interesting that this title is so specific, noting that it's a "cautionary tale." I believe the metaphor is that indulging a spoiled child will only lead to heartache (and heartburn for the lion).
Pierre: A Cautionary tale was a super fun book.
The lion gets sick and Pierre gets spit out and he becomes a much sweeter kid.
If you are finding students don’t care how they do on their work or are being rude to each other I could use this book to show them karma does come around and they should be more respectful and caring.
I would defiantly keep this book in my classroom and encourage my students to read it because it is not too hard and is short.
I like Sendak's distinctive illustrations, but I think children will relate to the humor in this book, and Pierre's defiance of his parents with his"I don't care!" answers to every question, better than I did. What may be laugh-out-loud funny to a young reader was just irritating for me. Although Pierre's impudence distracted me from the moral (this is, afer all, "a cautionary tale"), it might not for other readers; this is a very subjective review! And, again, the illustrations are great and done in his instantly recognizable style. A School Library Journal Top 100 picture book.
Read in October 2017I'm going to go out on a limb and say I enjoyed this book even more than Where The Wild Things Are. The story is cute, but I love the darker undertone and the bratty Pierre.
Listening to the Dresden Dolls and/or Carole King song version makes it stick in my head for days (and weeks) at a time.
I remember saying "I don't care" a lot as a child, so I guess I should be grateful I didn't get eaten by a lion.
(That said, as bratty as Pierre is, I think him saying "I don't care" is hilarious each time.
Pierre doesn’t care; however, at the end, he learned to CARE!
I found a rhythm as I was reading and words that rhyme with Pierre.
The visual images are all on the recto side, while the texts are on the verso side.
I like how this mini chapter gives a clue who is going to be part the chapter.
Like for example, the cover of chapter 1 page has a rectangular picture frame above the chapter, with him sitting at the table and his mother bringing him a bowl of cream of wheat.
The images don’t have any background, so it made me focus on the characters.
Premise: Little boy says "I don't care" and get eaten by a lion, but it all works out and the lion becomes friends with the boy and his family.Artwork: Classic Sendak. Not particularly well drawn, but somehow enduring.Downside: Much like Aesop's fable, this story ends with a moral. The moral is, "Care!" But....it's pretty unlikely you'll be eaten by a lion for not caring. So I'm conflicted on the message.
This a tale of a quarrelsome lad named Pierre who haughtily responded to every statement of question with "I don't care."Until one day he responded to the Lion that he did not care if the Lion ate him. After a rescue from the stomach of the lion, Pierre indeed began to care.The moral of the story...you may not appreciate life until you run the risk of losing it.
Buku #6 yang dibaca di Phoenix Public Library.Buku kedua Sendak yang kubaca setelah Where the Wild Things Are. Yang ini menceritakan Pierre yang tidak pedulian dan kemudian dimakan singa. Terbit pertama kali pada 1962 dan aku membaca cetakan tahun 1990.
