https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/914055.A_History_of_the_Modern_World
I have read this book twice: first, as the text for the senior year AP European History class at Maine South H.S. with Timothy Little, a Grinnell graduate; second, as the text for the freshman year European History class at Grinnell College with Terry Parsinen.
For a couple of years I could actually present the history of either France or England from the middle ages to the present with all the heads of state named and in order off the top of my head.
In college this text was supplemented by a larger one containing primary documents.
Yup, the good ol' Palmer, eighth edition. It's still sitting on a shelf in my family's home. I could just toss it into the recycling (which accommodates hardcover books), but its physical and emotional heft argues against that. At the same time, the most recent copyright in the eighth edition is 1995. Should I ever feel inclined to revisit a history of the modern world, I should do so with a more up-to-date version.
I read it for my AP Euro class (by the way, it helped me get a 5), and I was so enamored of it that I bought it.The content: This is a book of European history but not contained to Europe.
No, African dictatorships did not happen in Europe, but Europe certainly had quite a role in instigating them, and it is important to learn the whole story.The book covers everything from philosophers to political events to demographic trends.
The authors write intelligently, not insulting the audience, and they acknowledge (like so many textbooks seem opposed to doing) that there are indeed writers of the book and that the people in the history were indeed people.
A very comprehensive book of World History, with special emphasis on European History. This book covers history from Ancient Greece to modern twenty-first century. Although some topics are only briefly covered, the general themes and ideas are explained clearly. This book is a good start if you would like to learn history.
Used in my freshman course in western civilization, modelled after the 2 year Contemporary Civilization course at Columbia condensed into 1 year. Well taught, but I have always regretted that my college education included so little about Asia. The closed I got was coureses in international relations where they had to consider China, Japan and India.
Obligated to read this as a first year history bachelor. When you know you have to know a book like this front to back, it's kind of hard to enjoy it. It remains a solid piece of history writing nevertheless, euro-centric though it may be....
magnificent，awfully useful
An incredible book. Wonderfully written and ties modern world history together in such a beautiful way.
Geography is especially notable, as it contains many excellent maps to use for comparing political boundaries over time.
Maybe it's my own bias or sentiment, but I feel more apologetic for this text than other related work (such as The Dictionary of Cultural Literacy, which seems more deliberately biased).
I hope that the more recent editions have corrected this bias.
With that being said, I still feel this text is a good cut above its peers with the weight that it does give to the past and non-Western history, especially given that it was printed in 1965.
R.R. Palmer, Jeremy Scahill, Joan Didion, and Joe Nye Jr. were introduced to me in high school.
That might not count for much though since I stole a copy from my high school's library after taking European history.As a piece of scholarly work, Palmer cogently crafts a humane and liberal Euro-centric narrative.
Most poignantly for myself, it serves as a thousand page reminder of the shared dream of bequeathing a better world to our children.This book is well worth reading (and stealing) as a survey text, but critically questioning the narrative set forth by the authors, and those of the aforementioned actors, is how to make this text shine brightly enough to see by for a lifetime.
So I would read to her the corresponding section from "the Age of Napoleon" by the Durants, so she could understand what/why things were happening.
There is little in the Palmer book to give context, it is really a political history of the Modern (European) World, little or nothing about what was else was happening in Europe.
(I would give her context by pointing out that when this political event was happening, for instance, Beethoven was composing the Emperor Piano Concerto.) The Durant's description of the Terror during the French Revolution made it come alive for her, as opposed to the listing of deaths and treaty's in the Palmer book.
It's a dated look at the "modern" world; i.e. Europe mid-century, but a good reminder of how poorly written and factless many more recent standard textbooks have become.
I'd guess two people is about the maximum for any coherency; I feel the pain of current AP students trying to learn World or European history with horrible, committee-written, state-vetted textbooks.
If you want a text-based, Euro-centric view of the development of the modern world - this is a good one for history buffs of the big over-view.
If you want to see how students were introduced to world history from 1950 to maybe 1990, try this one out.
Solid introductory text, a necessary prerequisite for anyone who wants to study European or world history in greater detail. The chapters on the 19th century were particularly well-done. As this is an introductory overview, it does not delve deeply in any direction and does not reference sources. My only criticism of the book was that Colton sometimes oversimplifies complex processes or events, such as the French Revolution or the decline of Rome, for the sake of an uninitiated reader, presenting only one or two interpretations when a canonical understanding of those events have not yet been established.
Okay, yes this is often used as a textbook. But for someone who never took a modern European history course (no, this is NOT modern world this is modern Europe) it was an enlightening read. LONG (over 1,000 pages!) but easy to read and very engaging. Not your typical textbook. However, I must warn you, you'd better be prepared to commit some serious time to this baby -- it took me at least 50 hours to read, probably a lot more.
The complexity and the details presented in this textbook are terrific. I only wish that Palmer and Colton knew how to write! It is a tragedy, really, that the sentences and terribly constructed and must be re-read; otherwise, comprehension of paragraphs and passages is somewhat taxing. One can tell how over-edited the entirety of it has been. A History of the Modern World is great if you want to learn about European history, however.
This is a lifetime bedfellow of mine. I usually pick it up, open somewhere in the middle (or beginning or end) and read a few pages. Though it's stronger than a nightcap (usually puts me to sleep quickly), I really like Palmer's view on how we got here and compare my relationship to the book to the act of doing a puzzle. I pick a page, examine the piece of history in my mind and try to lay it down somewhere it fits. I don't plan to finish this puzzle until I'm a very old lady.
Really readable and tons of good information, but lacks primary source documents in the text so I can't use it for my AP students. Only a few colored illustrations, which I'm sure keeps costs down, but what on earth is the point of including a Jackson Pollack painting to discuss the use of color and texture if you reprint it in black and white?
After over 50 years, this is still the single best textbook ever to grace academia. It's the de facto standard in modern European history classes (and one assumes, the reason I got a 5 on the AP test since I didn't exactly attend class faithfully). Also? It's full of subtle jokes--I mean, historians with senses of humor? Who knew?
This is really sad, but I found this on my dad's bookshelves when I was in High School and started reading it. I have read just about the entire thing. I have an old version, but it is still excellent. Most of my understanding of history started in this book, which I read in fragments over many years.
In truth -- I didn't read every word, but did spend much longer with this excellent history than I expected to. Preparing for a European visit, I hoped to enhance my understanding of past events there that led to the present. This book is a terrific resource, and I'm happy that I own it, for future reference!
I read this in high school World History class, and found the book again on the sidewalk in some one's "free pile". My version is a little dated (1995 ed.), which is actually interesting in terms of the author's perspective, but it's packed full of all of that history (who remembers the Byzantine empire?) that I've forgotten.
In 11th grade, this was the text for my A.P. European History class, and it is to this book (in concert with Mrs. Galvani's excellent teaching, of course) that at least partially owe my history major. I can still see the text on the pages and the little salmon-colored maps. Hooray for a good, solid foundation in European history!
I read this textbook for AP European History this year, and aside from a few unjustified sentences attacking religion this text was amazing. The dept Palmer along with his colleagues place into this book is wonderful as it summarizes the Ancient World while delving into history from the 1400s to the twentieth century.
This gets only three stars because I just enjoyed it. This is a history text. It's not supposed to be a super read. I believe it's a decent history text. Certainly worth reading. I'll probably read it again, someday, unless I'm informed of an alternative history text.
A very long and huge textbook for my Modern Western Civilizations class that I took Fall 2013. It was very readable, but it took a very, very long time to read. Settle in for the long haul, it will give you the big picture in a pretty clear way.
Read significant portions of this book for AP Seminar in high school - I'm not sure that I "liked" it at the time, as much as it became somewhat an infamous inside joke in our class. When I had the opportunity to purchase my used copy, I took it.
This was my high school AP World History textbook and I still reread sections several times a year to refresh my memory of various events and connections. This silly program won't let me enter the actual date that I finished this book for the first time--which was in 1968.
Foraying back to my ap Euro days. It's time I reread this beast.
Awesome. This book changed my life twice.
Excellent book for my class (Modern world history, this was the european part of the curriculum)
