https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16333.At_Bertram_s_Hotel
لم ارى دورا كبيرا الانسة ماربل بقدر الدور لمفتش الشرطة الذي اكتشف كل شيء وهو من جمع الخيوط والاحداث لفك شيفرة الأحداث الغريبة التي نحدث في الفندق، رغم المظهر والخدمات الرائعة التي يقدمها الفندق لزبائنه والتي كانت تمثيلا .ليست بمستوى الروايات السابقة لاجاثا
In this novel though, it is his wife, Joan, who suggests that she needs a little trip and Miss Marple says she would like to go to Bertram’s Hotel.
Bertram’s is a haven for the well to do in London; visited by retired army officers, clergymen, the aristocracy and wealthy Americans.
This novel includes a missing clergyman, a notorious racing driver, a wealthy, somewhat notorious beauty, her daughter and a spate of audacious robberies in London.
I also enjoyed the setting of Bertram’s itself, so evocative of a certain type of hotel in London, where tourists can make believe they are comfortably ensconced in the past.
One of the most boring Agatha Christie novels. Though advertised as Miss Marple novel, she is no more than a decorative piece in the plot. The novel is actually an ode to Christie's fascination with old world British charm. Weak plot which is mostly a drag will compel you to put down the novel and spend your time productively by reading any other book. Avoid this novel unless you are a die hard Christie fan and have to read all her works
Life is really a One Way Street, isn’t it?” I put a spoiler warning on this post not so much because I will discuss the details of the plot but because I will discuss some of the characters in a way that will give away much of the conclusion.
(view spoiler)[At Bertram's Hotel is one of Dame Agatha's less outrageous novels starring Miss Marple.
The characters were detailed and life-like and Marple did not interfere too much with the goings on at Bertram's.
(view spoiler)[There is nothing more disappointing to find out that the hints of a criminal organization might have been true to a certain extent, but the original goal of the crimes is revealed to be "just for fun." (hide spoiler)] That atmosphere of danger and "all is not as they seem" that Christie so successfully introduced deflates all at once.Even more disappointing is the fact that (view spoiler)[the real criminal is allowed to escape (although it is hinted that there will be further and hopefully successful attempts to bring them in) (hide spoiler)], and Miss Marple is only a secondary character, popping in occasionally to provide the thoroughly uninteresting detective with some advice.Still a decent read on the overall scale, however, which is why this received three stars and not lower.
Choose Your Own Adventure!You say you don’t like creative reviews. You say they distract from the passion, you say they aren’t real, you say they replace research with humor. You say they are a waste of time. Yet here you are, playing your little games.If you are ashamed of yourself because it feels so good, choose http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...If you think hypocrisy is just another word for nothing left to lose, choose https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
To Miss Marple’s surprise, Bertram’s Hotel is almost completely unchanged―still preserving its Edwardian appearance, charm, food, and also service―and seems indeed to be prospering despite the changes in the world outside.
I thought the whole idea of the hotel, its appearance, the Edwardian atmosphere and charm was very well done, as was the sense of unease which Miss Marple has which the reader begins to catch on to as well, after a few happenings.
But while once again, this wasn’t among my favourite Marple books, it was a very good read, and I was glad I’d forgotten the end which preserved the surprise element as well.
The mystery was boring and the murder came too late.
Worst, there wasn't conclusive proof that could put the villain in jail, only a policeman's vow that he would find a way.I didn't rate it worse because I loved this quote - which I found terrible but truthful:I learned (what I suppose I really knew already) that one can never go back, that one should not ever try to go back - that the essence of life is going forward.
Life is really a One Way Street, isn't it?This is pretty much the idea behind the plot.
In bits and pieces, the facade behind the glorious Bertram's Hotel is peeled off, showing it to be a hotbed of criminals.
Also, since Miss Marple was not privy to the robbery information, she does not have a hand in solving that mystery either.
The solution is left dangling in the air, and the readers never get to know whether or not justice comes to the killer.Despite its weak points, I enjoyed At Bertram's Hotel quite a bit.
We see quite a bit of Miss Marple's past in this, more than in most other books.
As with some of the other Miss Marple books, I see in my head, as I am reading, the Joan Hickson TV episode.
In the case of Bertram's Hotel, for some reason, this was even more the case, almost like the movie was playing as i read.Anyway that aside, again it was another really enjoyable book, with Miss Marple excelling in her role of detecting from her armchair whilst knitting.
I thought it was less light hearted than some of her earlier works, a little darker, which was no bad thing, just different.Ok this challenge has been wonderfully enjoyable, and I still have 4 to go (I think).
Then its the Poirot's woo hoo.
Yet another nephew pays for Miss Marple to take a vacation wherever she wants. She choose an old hotel. I would have chosen Italy, but that's just me.  Anyway, the hotel is full of interesting characters and a murderer. Miss Marple quickly locates the biggest gossips and gets to work.
I'm always grateful when I find a Miss Marple book where the title sleuth gets to actually be present for about half the story - this one, in fact, featured Miss Marple more than any of her other mysteries I've read.
Miss Marple doesn't appear at certain points because the other characters are busy doing important things, things that Miss Marple can't be present for because then the mystery would be over.
They have different names this time, but they're basically the same people that usually appear in Miss Marple mysteries.
I loved this book, though I can see that it's not one of Agatha's best plots. Miss Marple doesn't really solve the mystery - a policeman does. But as a novel, I think it's among Agatha's best, most balanced novels. The hotel atmosphere and descriptions of London, and several of the characters, are just brilliantly done. It was v gripping and huge fun to read.
3.5 Stars
This book did make me hungry for hearty English breakfasts, the kind they serve at Bertram's Hotel.It's one of Christie's later novels; the Beatles get a mention, so we know it's the early sixties. Yet the old world lingers: girls under 21 are frowned on if they go out without chaperones, and women who have more than just a handful of lovers during their whole lives are "nymphomaniacs." Christie had issues. Miss Marple mostly just sits on her ass in this one, informing a detective that a young girl might be in danger, but not doing any problem-solving herself.
Pozna Agata sa - za taj period - standardnim prosedeom u kome se dosta krše ruke nad ovom novom omladinom što sluša Bitlse i ponavljaju žalopojke za predratnom kuhinjom i predratnim nameštajem. Gđica Marpl šarmantna kao i uvek, ali glavni zaplet malo previše maskiran sporednim.
Meh through and through.
Mrs Agatha Christie here departs from her usual structure-although the style is as sterling as ever- and I can't for the life of me imagine who was she copying with such a fearless endeavor.While reading the bits where Miss Marple appears, I was regretting that she doesn't exist-she is a relic as much as the Hotel Bertram itself was.
Very different beast, this book is.I like old fashioned detective stories most when the motive for the murder is money.
Take Lady Sedgwick, one of the main suspects, she doesn't to me, come across as a believable person.
One of my favourite Miss Marple novels which places her in the midst of 1960s London.
Christie has fun with ideas of nostalgia and the inability to live in the past - however beautifully a facade may be recreated as is the case with Bertram's Hotel.
With fast racing cars and organised crime set against forgetful canons and out-of-touch majors, Christie seems to be self-consciously noting the passing of the milieu in which so many of her books had been set, while slyly acknowledging her readers' own desire to inhabit that past, if only vicariously and temporarily.
Smart and snappy, and so much fun.
This is one of my favorite Agatha Christie books – I think for no other reason than that I want to stay at this hotel! Well – I also do think that the mother/daughter relationship is really interestingly done, and who doesn’t love a good noble sacrifice? But still: the descriptions of muffins are what stays with you.
It seems Miss Marple has become a secondary character. I wish we had more time with her thoughts than with Inspector Davy.
Pero como siempre logra encantar.
Miss Marple llega al Hotel Bertram encantada porque el lugar se mantiene identico a como ella lo recuerda de pequeña (Miss Marple es bastante vieja).
Un tiroteo, que termina con el portero del hotel muerto, destapa una serie de misterios que terminan desesmascarando la verdadera razón detrás de la elegancia y tranquilidad del entrañable Hotel Bertram.Es una historia simple y bien escrita, como tantas otras de Christie.
Un planeta más en el universo de la autora, recomendable si eres un fanático de ella, precindible si no has tomado aún sus obras fundamentales (Asesinato en el Orient Express, Muerte en el Nilo o Diez negritos, solo por nombrar algunos.
Mungkin salah satu less favorite book dari Agatha dan series miss marple. Lumayan cukup bosan 2/3 awal buku nya, misteri nya kurang dan banyak kejadian-kejadian yang kurang greget. Tapi suka setting hotel nya sama deskripsi makanannya. Selama baca jadi kepengen makan muffin dan nyobain jamuan teh ala Inggris.
Thankfully I didnot remember the perpetrators, and was pleasantly surprised at the end, as I failed to get to the core of the mystery.This book combines all cozy things - childhood reminiscences, a two week hotel stay vacation (how I wish I had an opportunity like that), a cozy mystery to occupy oneself, and a murder.Miss Marple is gifted a well deserved vacation for two weeks by her writer nephew Raymond, whose last book did well.
She chose to stay at Bertram's hotel to relive her childhood memories, despite the various exotic locales she could have chosen.
Great book, not sure why they have re titled it as Hotel Betram...it's real title is At Betram's Hotel. I went to stay in a hotel in London and it was a good book to read ! Have read it before but defianetly one of Agatha Christie's best
Miss Marple makes a guest apperance in this one, which is why i gave it a 2.5 star review. The story wasnt as interesting as i wanted it.Nothing actually happened, as in other books, to keep me interested but i did finish it because Christie's excellent writing skill never stops to amaze me.
Very little action until the last quarter of the book. Miss Marple was a minor character in this. It was just okay.
I liked the previous Miss Marple book that I read so much I immediately borrowed another!At Bertram's Hotel takes place in London, where Miss Marple is on holiday.
But, it was set up well by Chief-Inspector Davy/Father and I definitely bought it.Speaking of Chief-Inspector Davy/Father, I found him to be a very interesting character!
I didn't see as much reference to her home village, though, because she spent more time wandering through memory lane.Which brings us to Betram's Hotel, which is as much a character as anyone else.
It was fun reading about Miss Marple's stay in Betram's Hotel, and I did want to stay there.I'm starting to regret staying away from Miss Marple for so long.
Miss Marple's nephew offers to pay for a holiday for her, and she chooses a stay at Bertram's Hotel in London.
Although we do get to see quite a lot of Miss Marple, the investigations are led by Chief Inspector Davy, a shrewd and experienced policeman.
Miss Marple and Davy make a good double act - both observant and with a realistic view of human nature, they are on the same wavelength and validate each other's way of thinking.
The other characters are interesting too, especially the staff at the hotel - I always admire how Christie can create a whole character in our minds in just a few lines.

