https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15454.Refugee
3.5 stars. A different and much darker tale than many of Piers Anthony's other novels but still a well written, interesting read. This is the first in the "Bio of a Space tyrant" series and is really the story of the early years of the "tyrant" and how his early suffering led to his becoming the man he would become. I would recommned this book to fans of darker, grittier SF.
However, in Bio of a Space Tyrant, Anthony's ugliness comes to the fore in the first part of the book, where the main character describes being turned on as he watches his sister being gang-raped by pirates.It's not just that bit of ugliness (which, if handled with a defter writing hand, might have made us sympathize with such a twisted, damaged character).
It's the fact that Anthony uses rape the way all writers nowadays are taught not to: need us to instantly sympathize with a character?
A Rather Disturbing Book2 May 2012 Well, this is the last of the Piers Anthony series that I have read, though I have recently discovered that he has added a further book to this series which I have not read (and do not plan on reading simply because I have no interest in reading any more of these stories). In a way, this series also seems to demonstrate Anthony's perception of women in that the female characters in this book seem to be incapable of resisting what he considers to be a sexually v
While I know a lot about history, I personally cannot say whether such an event has actually occurred on our world, and even then, Anthony is trying to paint the main character as a enlightened despot, in a way that is similar to Julius Ceaser.
While the story is set in the future where Earth has gone out to colonise the Solar System, he is making an attempt at allegory in that each of the planets represents a country or continent that existed in the 80s (and I say this because Saturn is representative of the Soviet Union, which did not exist at the time I read these books, which was the early naughties).
I read this when I was 15 and it has haunted me ever since. I remember relating it to Upton Sinclair's The Jungle where every horrible thing that could happen to this person DID happen to this person. Like I said, haunting. And this is just the first book. It is also a look into survival and what the human mind and body is capable of overcoming. I have read this three times in my life and have taken away something different every time.
This is the first book in Piers Anthony’s Bio of a Space Tyrant.
It details Hope Hubris the eventual Tyrant of Jupiter in his younger days.Hope and his sister are exiled from their home world and travel through the solar system on their way to Jupiter.
Along the way they encounter pirates, again and again, who unleash violent horror on the travelers, again and again.
It is extremely repetitive and gratuitously violent well past the stage of making a point.
It’s not pretty, and it gets progressively uglier with each episode.I’ve read about ten Anthony novels, which is a tiny dent in his bibliography—I count thirty-nine published books just in the 1980s—and his works have always had a strange, dark tint about sex and violence.
Or is Anthony making the case that, like children unable to look away from the dead dog, we are unable to confront our darkest truths without feeling the same thrill?I could make a legitimate case for any of these possibilities, but I’m not sure I want to.
As I had read from another reviewer, this is not the typical Piers Anthony novel. I'd classify it as Sci-Fi only because of the setting. This is much more of a deep dive into the mind and motivations of what I assume is to come in the rest of the series. As they say, the devil is in the details and Piers didn't leave out any details as he followed the psychological development of his main character. Though a bit slow at times and very graphic it's an excellent read.
The series gets off to a bit of a rough start as the reader is beaten over the head with the message thatthe main character has had a rough life/much trauma. Yes everyone DIES!!!!!!The series does greatly improve after book one but I am concerned that many readers will bail after this volume.
I remembered reading the first 2 books in this series in 10-11th grade, and could only remember bits and pieces, but remembered loving it back then.
By the middle of the book after the 28th instance of rape, I thought "how could I have read this when I was 16 and not remember this was a major part of this book?
In any case now as I read it, all the parts I did remember were nostalgic and wonderful, but I can't help feeling the author went a bit over the top to the point of this story just being unbelievable.
I don't expect I'll try another book from this series anytime soon.
I'm quite disappointed in this book.
I read the entire series many years ago when I was at school, and had loved it.
Reading it again now I was horrified at how....
rapey it was throughout.
I could even forgive that if it wasn't for the fact that 1.
In the first chapter our main character gets turned on by the public gang rape of his sister, 2.
He carries on and on an on about how beautiful elder his sister is to the point of tedium, 3.
I'm hoping that the rest of the series gets better because I don't want to continue being disappointed.
Many who have read this have had to make the obligatory "This is not your Xanthianish Piers Anthony type of novel" comment.
With that out of the way, I will say that this is not your Xanthianish Piers Anthony type of novel.
Certainly a bit darker, but in its darkness is it's weakness.I have read a number of other "dark" sci-fi stories -- Donaldson's "Gap" series among the best -- and "Refugee" compares somewhat ill-favorably.
Now, I am fully aware that "Refugee" is but the first of this series, and I will say that it is certainly good enough to continue reading onward, but I will say that it was somewhat predictable and (dare I say) repetitive.
If not for the fact that the author based this story on a real life events, I probably would have been content to leave the rating a three-star.
But he did use real life events as a model for this space adventure, and that tipped the scales for me.
Basing his "space opera" on the plight of the Vietnamese boat people was a bold move as a lot of really horrific things happened to the refugees fleeing their homelands.
Of course, I had to wait until the end of the novel to find out the book was inspired by the story of the Vietnamese boat people.
This is one of them.What I remember was that it held my interest through the first two books and then became a little repetative in the third.I first picked this up because I found the idea intriguing as well as loving the character's conflicting name; "Hope Hubris." Piers Anthony also took the political, geographical and resource divisions on Earth and expanded them throughout the universe.
Hope and his family are refugees of Hispanic descent and this book is written as if it were his autobiography.
Yes, there is a good deal of controversy surrounding some of the imagery and subject matter.
In fact, the book starts with rape.
Rape, in fact, becomes a key component in the series itself, although saying so makes it sound much worse than it really is.
These books are violent and shocking, although most people would not expect that of such an old series, especially one from the science fiction genre.Yet, somehow, I still find myself obsessed.
I'll simply say that if you can make it through your initial shock you'll find a highly entertaining, brutally honest series that has quickly become one of my favorites.
Having read almost every other thing written by Piers Anthony, I plowed into this.
It proved quite spicy and inappropriate, and I recall reading it with a mixture of horror and hunger.
Fingers cut off!
Sexual perversion!
By far the raciest, most violent and thrilling book I'd read to that point.
Around this time, though, I also got into Anne McCaffrey's Dragon Drums series — complete with dragon lusts and dragon-linked matings and all kinds of crazy.
And, soon I'd get deep into  Clan of the Cave Bear and beyond — those in the know will know what bom-chicka-bom-bom that means.
I started collecting the books in this series about 20 years ago and yesterday finally found book 1 in a second hand bookshop and so, finally, have started to read them.
The brutal rape of his sister at the very start sets the scene for the horrors that unfold.
The plight of the refugees, while set in hostile space, may as well be the plight of modern day refugees that risk life and more to come to counties like my own.
I'm looking forward to getting home to start the second book.
I loved this series as a teen and they hold up just a well for 45yo me as well.
ITs pure space Opera and 1980's geo-politics on a solar system wide scale - but that's just backdrop for a well-written, engrossing story.Refugee can be a harsh read.
The story of Hope Hubris and his family's journey to the Land of the Free on Jupiter is not that of a pleasure cruise.
it is not your usual sci-fi thriller - butt its also not a ponderous, difficult read.
I'm glad it's available again as a kindlized book and I'm looking forward to working through the series.
Its a wonderful, entertaining series.
People must leave their home Jovan moon or die, and the hero of this tale, Hope Hubris, and his family are among them.
The journey is expensive and dangerous and Hope is only a 16 year old boy.Refugee has some truly heart breaking moments where the reader must ask how much more can the hero and his companions endure as the refugees are targeted by pirates.
The book is his journal of that journey to a sanctuary in a new land in unstable times.The book is of course well written.
Ugh,I found this book difficult to get through. There is only so much rape and murder an author can put into a story before it just becomes tiresome. On top of that the writing itself feels childish (maybe intentional, since the conceit is that this was written by the main character), the dialog feels wrong and the actions of the characters makes them feel like caricatures rather then fleshed out people.
Depressing story of immigrant problems of the future.A retelling of politics of the 80's. Most of this is based off some of the darker stuff that actually happened to refugees. Not suitable for under 17. Not for those who like happy endings. Does illustrate that history moves in cycles.
This series exceeded all of my teenaged expectations. Even the Mode series hadn't prepared me for the sorrow I would experience in reading this series. This first entry was quite possibly the most difficult...but it really does set the tone for Hope's rise throughout the series.
Piers Anthony usually has a unique voice that makes me wish more people wrote like him. Reading this just reminded me of Lois McMaster Bujold and made me want to read her work instead.Not his best work, but reading a Piers Anthony book is never something I regret.
I read this series maybe 20 years ago, it as the main title that drew me. If I remembered how sad it was I may not have started with this. Oh it's so darn sad, but it sets up what Hope Hubris is all about.
Not a bad book... Alot of rape from start to finish though, which was pretty messed up. I also really wish the main character was Spirit, because she was so much better then her brother.
A good story of the retched remains of a family that would create Hope Hubris emperor of Jupiter. However throughout he first half of the story Hope isn't very engaging as a character seeming almost whiny in some cases.
Great book! Very graphic though.
Very disturbing, but captivating book. Don't read it for fun, for it is not fun, but it is worth reading.
My best review ever ))))
A little too violent for meToo much rape and death for me to read vol 2. It is presented in a way that makes it almost okay. It never is.
Not only is this an offensive novel, but the writing, the dialogue, the language is stupid and unbelievable.
Let me write a few examples of Hope's diary entries (on which the book is based) and you tell me if it sounds like a 15 year old Hispanic male!"Faith, eighteen years old, resented this; she claimed her social life was inhibited by the presence of a skinny fifteen-year-old little sibling.
Do you know ANY teen who talks like this, particularly a teen of the future who's first language is not English?
