https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22584.Flow_My_Tears_the_Policeman_Said
Dick’s haunting dystopian novel addresses a range of existential, social and political themes: identity and loss of identity, celebrity and ordinariness, subjective perceptions and objective realities, state sponsored mind control and drug induced mind bending, genetic engineering and emotional networking.
PKD had his own personal issues with paranoia and he gives Jason many reasons to become paranoid.
Jason feels the absurdity of being bound by such an ordinary person since, after all, he is a six, someone truly special.Phone-Grid Transex Network – PKD foresees internet sex.
But in his futuristic world the sex network is many times more powerful and potentially destructive.
Yet unlike many main characters from PKD’s books, protagonist Jason Taverner is not a misunderstood, delusional recluse, but rather a world famous, genetically superior celebrity.
Buckman is made to encounter a reality where he is far from in control, and where the whole basis of his power, of the world’s power structure is shown to be ephemeral and false.Set in a dystopian future where the United States is ruled by a police state after a second civil war, and where students are hunted down and interred in forced labor camps, Flow My Tears, The Policeman Said brings together many mainstay themes of PKD’s work.
Excelente, un libro intrigante en todo momento, recuerda un poco al mundo de blade runner, pero esta es una historia compleja que vuelca constantemente y te engancha hasta el final, de esos libros dónde necesitas saber la verdad.
“Love isn't just wanting another person the way you want to own an object you see in a store. That's just desire. You want to have it around, take it home and set it up somewhere in the apartment like a lamp. Love is"--she paused, reflecting--"like a father saving his children from a burning house, getting them out and dying himself. When you love you cease to live for yourself; you live for another person.” What? This in a Philip K. Dick novel? This is an unusual PKD book, though you could arg
Profanities are common place in the dialogs, something not present in Dick’s works from the 60s (I believe), and there is more depth to the characters, more compassion, and more emotional resonance.This story is set in a dystopian 1988 USA (a “near future” at the time of writing) where the people live under a police state, anybody found at spot checks without proper documentation are liable to be summarily shipped off sent to labour camps (students especially).
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.The Nature of Reality: "Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said" by Philip K.
In “Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said”, taken from “Flow My Tears” by John Dowland  This is one of the books that changed me in ways I’m still trying to come to terms with, and I’ve read it more than 30 years ago.
Reality can only be a subjective objectivity as it falls back on whether I chose to accept it as the truth or deny it completely.
You can criticise Dick all you like for being wrong about flying cars, or thinking the LP record was for ever (note: it isn't?), but he is writing science fiction and, as Ray Bradbury points out far more eloquently than will I, that is about ideas. It isn't about sentence construction, plot or character development. If you wanted to, it is easy enough to criticise this book on all these counts, but so what? Why would you bother? What matters is....http://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpres...
And more to the point, is Tavener suffering from some kind of hallucination – or, even worse, could it be his memory of being famous that's the hallucination?Flow My Tears is in some ways a very dated novel, especially in its sexual politics.
Since the early Sixties, Dick's books had been picking away at the notion of what is real – questioning the stability of history in The Man in the High Castle, of time in Martian Time-Slip, of subjective experience in Ubik, of objective reality itself in The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch.
And for the first time, it has a real point: Dick is finally answering the question he has posed so many times.
Originally, around eighty pages or so, I was going to rate it with four stars because, right from the get-go, I was just enjoying the brisk, no-nonesense yet highly engrossing pacing and linguistic style that Dick had incorporated in his storytelling; the breadth of the entire narrative work felt so much lighter than Do Androids Dream, honestly, making it easy for me to keep up with every twist and turn as I follow the protagonist Jason Taverner, a government-experimented Six which basically means a person with enhanced physical/sexual appeal and whatever attractive aptitude there is.
Probably 3.5 stars, but I tend towards grade-inflation with authors I admire, so -- just to be safe -- I'm rounding down on this one (until I decide I want to round up in 3 years).
I liked the first 4/5, but the last quintile bugged a little.
It was like towards the end PKD discounted his readers would get it, so he left simple instructions (remove plastic before eating) and tied the whole thing off neat (with complementary happy ending).
Other than the explanatory ending and the relative happy ending for the narrator, the book was fascinating and at times brilliant.
Ok todo se resumen en un grave problemas de drogas alucinógenas.
Un distopico con le cadenze del thriller: in una società futura, repressiva e disumana, un uomo famosissimo, che conduce uno spettacolo televisivo da trenta milioni di telespettatori, una mattina si sveglia e scopre di non essere più nessuno; lui non esiste, è stato cancellato dalla memoria del pianeta.
Ma questo è Philip Dick, non uno scrittorucolo qualsiasi.
La sua fantasiosa visionarietà si sposa con le domande più profonde di ogni uomo: chi sono io e di che cosa è fatta la realtà?Philip Dick scrive male, è vero, e forse una storia del genere l’avrebbe raccontata meglio qualcun altro, ma certamente non con la stessa potenza e profondità, non con la stessa sensibilità e lucidità.
His books reads like pulp fiction in style but are loaded with philosophical inquires regarding reality and perception.
Some of this may seem well worn to the casual reader However it is important to realize no one was writing stories like this before Phillip K Dick.
Flow My Tears is a good read but I would recommend a couple others before this one, like Man in The High Castle, Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep or Martian Timeslip.
But whatever you choose, anyone into science fiction or even 20th century literature, should read at least one Dick novel.
He has this quirk in his brain that lets him spin out freakishly interesting puzzles of an existential nature.The movie folks love him because they can grab this central nugget of bizarreness, "re-imagine" his characters, completely re-write the dialog, and get — hopefully — a conceptually fascinating film.
And Flow My Tears suffers because the protagonist's existential crisis is philosophically less interesting than I've come to expect.
Sure, there's a crisis, but it isn't philosophical or psychological, and only existential in a superficial manner.This isn't a good book for PDK beginners.
"La realidad negada regresa para atormentar. Para caer, sin previo aviso sobre la persona, y enloquecerla." Jason Taverner es una súper estrella que un día despierta y nadie lo recuerda...a partir de ahí nos encontramos en la carrera de Jason para averiguar el porqué, el problema recae en que, en un mundo altamente controlado por la policia, sin identidad ni papeles, Jason terminará enrollándose con personas peligrosas y situaciones ilegales, en una carrera contra reloj para evitar su muerte o
Entre la conversación de Ruth Rae y la misteriosa vida de Felix Buckman, Jason queda, para su suerte/infortunio, el 50% del tiempo acompañado de alguien que dará más énfasis a su historia, que permitirá ver un aspecto distinto de su personalidad y del mundo bajo el cual nos encontramos.
Esta obra es muy interiorizada, las reflexiones e inseguridades de todos los personajes están muy bien trabajados, la resolución de que es lo que sucedió con la vida de Taverner, aunque inverosímil, dentro de este mundo, podemos darla por posible, y más importante aún la paranoia que envuelve la historia, ese elemento hace que gran parte del tiempo estes pensando ¿Qué demonios está pasando?
It really was refreshing to read such a simply and straightforwardly told story for a change.
This novel contains the usual stuff you’d expect from PKD, with heavy themes of drugs, and strange metaphysics (the novel is more about these than any sort of futurism, which comes across as incidental).
The story itself was compelling, and the conclusion was surprisingly coherent, given the loose ends and meanderings of the plot, though I didn’t find the ending entirely satisfying.
But what the hell, this novel is fun, compelling and thought-provoking, despite its flaws.
It’s not my favourite PKD, but it's a solid and enjoyable read nonetheless.
This is my fifth PKD book this year, and while I thought it was beautifully written in parts, and its depiction of a police state appropriately chilling, it lacked many of the reality-bending twists and macabre humor of some of his best books, like Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep and UBIK.The main characters Jason Taverner and Felix Buckman were sufficiently troubled and complex to keep my interest, but the events of the middle portion of the book dragged a bit, although the ending does provide for some very moving passages that are presaged by the book's title.
Dick, "How to Build a Universe That Doesn't Fall Apart Two Days Later"It's going to take a while to process this one.
PKD's novels often strike an existential chord and FMTTPS is no exception.
Amoral TV personality Jason Taverner is attacked by a tentacled alien creature and when he awakens the following day he's...somebody else?
As in most PKD stories, the future is an absurdist dystopia that is often a reflection of the author's life and times.
Written towards the end of PKD's career when he had gained some literary recognition but financial success still eluded him (but prior to the "pink ray of light" encounter), FMTTPS is more challenging and raw than his earlier pulp work.


Thus begins his and the reader’s quest to discover how the subversion of his reality came about.Along the way we meet such characters as Kathy, the probably insane police informant / counterfeiter; the titular police general Felix who is in love with his wild, sexual, drug-abusing sister; and a fearful middle-aged spinster, maker of beautiful retail pottery that, as the final words of the book’s epilogue tells us, is probably loved.In some ways, Flow My Tears is one of PKD’s most human books.
I think that, perhaps, this is the first time I've ever been so captured by a novel in which I really don't care about the characters or plots; I just want to sit and soak in a tub of this author's silky-sad truth.One thing I must say, however: the resolution of this novel's conflict is stupid.
There were also a few other times when I questioned certain scenes -- namely the child sex and random hugging of black people scenes -- within the book and their relations to overall plot, aside from questions to the theme of love.
PKD is considered to be a sci-fi genre defining author, for having thought of unimaginable things during his time, opening up a new worlds of imagination for future authors and readers.The premise is very very interesting and the book started off very well - What if you are a celebrity who has 30 millions viewers weekly and one day you wake up to realize nobody recognizes you, as if you never existed before?.
The scene that is critical for this strange event that sets things in motion is chilling.
Also, the story went down hill from that critical moment.
If Kathy is in any way based on Tessa, it is understandable that during the time he was writing this book, Dick was committed to a psychiatric ward, went on multiple amphetamine benders, and feared for his safety so much that he placed the manuscript into the care of his attorneys to protect it from the insanity of his home life.
However, taken as a bit of autobiography- Dick trying to make sense of his failed relationships and wondering, from the depths of his benzedrine benders, whether his paranoid impulses are correct and all of the women in his life are, in fact, out to get him, the book succeeds admirably.
-Siamo ombre sognate da altre ombre-Quel pazzo di Dick non si smentisce. Questa volta ad essere messa in discussione è l’autocoscienza: l’individuo viene definito non come entità autonoma, ma come parte degli elementi percepiti dagli altri individui. Non siamo quindi padroni della nostra identità, poiché essa è determinata dalla maniera in cui siamo percepiti dal prossimo. Chi è che ha assunto la droga? Chi è il sogno di chi? Esiste una realtà più VERA delle altre?
Awakening in a seedy hotel room, the popular celebrity finds that he is now a nobody; a total unknown, with no birth certificate on file, no one who remembers him, and no IDs. And in the police state of 1988 L.A., not having an ID is a very easy way to get shipped off to an FLC (forced labor camp)....During his travails in this new reality of his, the befuddled Taverner encounters a series of women even more striking than the wacky dames that Bobby Dupea met in "Five Easy Pieces." There is Heather Hart, a fellow singer and, like Jason, a genetically engineered "six"; Kathy Nelson, an ID forger with obvious mental problems; Rachel Rae, an alcoholic old flame with a deep insecurity about aging; Alys Buckman, a leather-clad lesbian and twin sister of Police General Felix Buckman, with whom she has had a baby (!); and Mary Anne Dominic, a sweet potter (yes, ceramics and pottery again feature in this story, as they had in Dick's 1969 novel "Galactic Pot-Healer") who helps Jason at one of his lowest points.
Por eso me ha sorprendido Fluyan mis lágrimas, por estar escrita con cierta coherencia, sin ese abuso de diálogos tan dañinos para todo tipo de narrativa (Tuve que descubrir al insufrible O.S. Carr para aborrecer a Asimov)Tengo la sensación que la idea que recorre esta novela es tan potente, la distorsión de la realidad por causas ajenas a los que las sufren, que Dick abandonó la ortodoxia narrativa habitual, causa-consecuencia, para limitarse a describir el sufrimiento de ese trastorno y trasladar al lector la perplejidad que sufre el personaje principal.
"Es el ciclo del amor completado: amar, perder, sufrir, marcharse, y luego amar de nuevo.
Empezó muy bien con el típico caos de descubrir una realidad distinta, una pesadilla de dos días que vive el protagonista de manera indirecta y a la cual fue arrastrado por culpa de una sobredosis ajena de KR-3 y que, por si fuera poco, ocurre en una sociedad distópica gobernada por un Estado policial después de la Segunda Guerra Civil.
Una buena lectura, pero no ha sido la mejor de Dick para mí.
Μου άρεσαν κάποιες ιδέες του βιβλίου, αλλά η ίδια η ιστορία δεν με καθήλωσε. Βρήκα το τέλος βεβιασμένο και η ομοφοβία του με ενόχλησε πολύ.
Two months chasing images, reading about Godard and Kurosawa.
This marks my entry into PKD.
David mentioned that Dhalgren despite its flaws had not left his memory months after reading it.
Delany’s rumination certainly bubbles in this excursion from PKD.
Not sure of any interaction between Delany and Dick; I’m actually not sure I want to know.The synopsis is simple—uber famous singer/chat show host wakes in an Orwellian reality where no one knows him nor is there any record of his existence.
The membranes of reality are explored and many damaged souls take the stage.
And I’ll be honest: there was part of me which expected to be disappointed and uninvolved in what I found, but instead I greatly enjoyed ‘Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said’, Like early to mid period Ballard (a writer I greatly admire), Dick takes what is recognisably the real world and tips it slightly on an angle to explore a variety of themes – in particular, man’s isolation.A popular TV celebrity wakes up to find that no one – not his agent, his lover, nor his fans – have any idea who he is.
