https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/827902.Ratha_s_Creature
Ratha is a young female in a tribe of intelligent, talking big cats who call themselves The Named.
The book follows her growing up & negotiating the tumultuous power struggles of her world.For some reason, from the brief description I'd read of this series, I expected the characters to feel like 'aliens' - but overall, I thought this felt more like an animal story.
However, in nature, among big cats, female felines are certainly not at all prevented from hunting and scouting.
The story is set sometime in pre-history (it's hard to tell at times), where a Clan of sentient big cats survive by herding their own deer for food.
Ratha begins the story as a cub just learning the ways of the herder, when a lightning storm causes a wildfire big enough to cause the clan to run with the herd off of Clan Ground.
While both series are quite willing to have horrible things to happen to their characters, Clare Bell is much more up-front about what is going on and the descriptions can be pretty harsh sometimes.Overall, it's a really fun story about what things could have been like if there had been a group of intelligent cats that were effectively on the level of humans.
I came back and gave this a three star rating, because my previous one was only 2 stars. After I finished it, I couldn't get it out of my head, and the more I thought about it, the more I liked it. Though gruesome and depressing, it's almost poetic in a dark, haunting way. It actually makes me want to get the second one and possibly read the whole series. UPDATE 10-16-11: Ah, to heck with it, I'll give it a four star! *audience cheers*
I am so sorry..... this book just bore me to death. Ratha drove me BONKERS!!!! I rarely give 1 Star, but I wasn’t even able to finish this.
Ratha's Creature is an intense, emotional roller coaster of a book. It's the coming of age story of a remarkable adolescent, but it's also a story of the eternal battle between social status quo and social change. Ratha is a remarkable character that you can't help but like in spite of her shortcomings, and teens will identify with her struggle to make sense of the world around her and find her place in it. Recommended for mature teens due to violence and adult situations.Read my entire review.
(This is another book for which I wish GoodReads allowed fractions of stars, but anyway)...I picked this up as a Read-a-like for the Warriors Series, which I love to pieces.
I would indeed recommend it to someone looking to for new "animal-related fantasy." In many ways, this story reminded me of the Lion King.
Her surroundings and way of life change so much during her first year of adulthood, and she just rolled with the punches.
I can see how this first book could expand into a series, and I look forward to the next book.
I really didn't connect with Ratha.
I really hated the story line.
It always changed drastically for the worst in the least probable places.
The whole story just didn't fit, the puzzle pieces did not snap too well.But the WORST WORST WORST part of this book was the BLAH relationships between the cats.
Ratha and Bonechewer's relationship was number one, first class, select choice SCATTERED and it was so incredibly FRUSTRATING!!!
And her relationship with Thakur!
I won't even go into that one, but you probably get the picture.
Don't read this book...just don't.
I first read this years ago and remembered really enjoying the series. In re-reading it, I found I didn't remember any of it, but I still really enjoyed it! I also found it to be a little more "grown-up" than I had remembered it to be, especially for being classified as a young adult.
Ratha’s Creature was a great read, and truly different. I don’t find many books where the main character is full-blown animal (aka, no shape-shifting abilities), and it brought me back to the time when I used to roleplay as a wolf. Upon first getting this book, I wondered what the “creature” part of the title meant, and during the part it was revealed, I had to remind myself that we’re in the mind of an animal who has never seen the likes of what Ratha encounters, which only makes sense! It was
I don’t find many books where the main character is full-blown animal (aka, no shape-shifting abilities), and it brought me back to the time when I used to roleplay as a wolf.
Upon first getting this book, I wondered what the “creature” part of the title meant, and during the part it was revealed, I had to remind myself that we’re in the mind of an animal who has never seen the likes of what Ratha encounters, which only makes sense!
It was actually very refreshing to step outside my boundary and read something so… “innocent.” It made me think about how animals might refer other things that we know of...
This book is now one of my all time favorites - it is an amazing story written by Clare Bell, and a story I shan't forget anytime soon. I was brought into the thrilling world of Ratha and the Named, intelligent cats living millions of years ago. By the first page I was hooked; all the characters were well developed and the plot exciting and original. Clare obviously researched to write these novels, and for that I respect her for it. She's an amazing, talented author and now one of my all time favorites!~Sparrow
Growing up this was one of my absolute favorite series.The creatures were a mix of feral and intelligent, and never ceased to give me goosebumps at certain points.Still one of my favorites 17 years later.
It was one of the best books ive ever read. I love how she said the eyes of most of the Un-Named we different from those of the clan.
My absolute favorite book! A coming of age story told through the eyes of a prehistoric clan of wild cats. Themes like learning, belonging, and loyalty are key.
1983 PEN Center USA Award Winner for Young Adult Literature (tie)
Mating between Named and UnNamed is forbidden, since the clan believes that the resulting young will be UnNamed animals.
Ratha, a young female, bucks the clan tradition of male dominance by training with the herding teacher, Thakur, to become a herder.
Attacks by the UnNamed are driving Ratha’s clan close to the edge of survival.
Meoran, the tyrannical male clan leader, oppose Ratha and drives her out of the clan.
When the UnNamed attack again, she, Thakur and Fessran lead the clan in striking back with a new weapon, fire.
Ratha gives the Red Tongue each a torch, and they fight the UnNamed.
The way the story flows, the hardships that Ratha faces (as well as the other characters of the book), and the believable environments and personalities of the characters involved, as well as the depth, is just amazing.
Clare Bell has this ability to really connect you with the world she is writing about, and if fantasy is your favourite genre, then this book (and all books after it in the series) is definitely a recommended read.
I personally didn't mind it myself, as it lent to the depth of the challenges that Ratha faced, but I know some people who would complain.
I found many mistakes, and one in particular made me want to drop the book and never read it again.
And the whole relationship with Bonechewer was just hard to watch.The Good: The author did have great description, and the fight scenes were intense.
But after she was kicked from her clan, it started going downhill.Other Notes: For the people who want a more mature version of Warrior Cats, this is NOT the book.
Sure, the fighting scenes are more gory, and the description of things can be harsh, but its not Warrior Cats at all.
Ratha's Creature is a quick read, with intense page-turning action the entire way through.
It does not bog down in descriptions, and every word seems to have intent for moving the story forward.This book is a coming of age story, where a young female cub must learn to survive on her own among what her clan believes to be unintelligent, mindless members of their own species.
She must learn the secrets of the Un-Named and learn to survive around them while she herself is coming of age and going through puberty.
The book reads more like an animal story than one where the creatures are extremely anthropomorphised.
I started off liking this book a lot but in the end I thought it was okay.
I didnt like Ratha as a main character.
Bell's writing is good but this book lacked story.
I found it kind of found it that it dragged on and on.
The book is called Ratha's Creature but the creature(Red Tounge) had nothing to do in this book.
She caught the creature, got kicked out of the clan and then the creature drowned.
This book also lacked agood setting andit never explained what kind of cat Ratha is and what the Red Tounges are.
I Think that this is a great book. I LOVED it! Not only has it taught me quit a bit about mountain lions it has also inspired me to want to read more books. Before I read Ratha's creature I didn't want to have anything to do with reading. I also love goodreads it is amazing i started to find many books that i would like to read. I loved the way ratha really learned to like the red tonge(fire) and used it to help her clan keep the "un-named" cats off her land.
Despite the cheesy tag line on the back of this book, I thoroughly enjoyed rereading it (I first read this book when I was 12). The description is amazing, the characters interesting, and the idea more or less original (despite all the cat books that have been written after this book came out in 1983). If you like "Watership Down", I would highly recommend this book-- and so far my students like it!
Interesting concept, but a little slow in reading. The Warriors books are much better and much more engaging.
Wow! Ratha’s Creature was an amazing read that didn’t cease to amaze me. Glad I bought it!
"Talking animal" stories, stories about animals with cultures, social structures, all that, are my favorite kind of story, and this is one of the best examples of the genre.This was also the book that made me worry that maybe I was actually a furry.The plot centers around Ratha and her clan.
Cats of the book's world experienced heat, and then-younger me found the sex between Ratha and Bonechewer to be oddly sexy and hot, thus my Furry worries.
Even when I get lost in a book, I'm almost always aware that I'm reading and imagining it, but in Ratha's Creature it's like I skipped the middle 'reading' step and was getting it sent straight into my head.
I missed this series when it first came out, but the author was kind enough to give me a copy of the first book when we met at a convention in San Jose, where we'd been discussing alien-building.
Ratha is based on large terrestrial felines, being largely leopard-like, and the author has done a good job of portraying feline societies of two types.
There are a series of conflict involved in all this, including romantic liaisons, clashes between the two societies, and the establishment of heirarchy in each.

I read this book as a child and reread it some 15 years later when I first started working in libraries. Now I've purchased the entire series for my school library and am eagerly preparing to read the rest of Ratha's story. This one holds up completely to my memory of it -- it's a lush, absorbing, thrilling, heartbreaking, and timeless story. (One great advantage of the well-crafted prehistoric setting: it will never feel dated.) Fully qualified to stand alongside animal classics like Watership Down.
Ratha's creature is a fantasy novel written by Clare Bell. Ratha is a female herder who gets exiled because she brings the Red Tongue, or fire, to their clan. She meets an Un-Named, someone who is not from the clan of the Named and befriends him. She leaves him, due to an argument, and takes over the clan with the symbol of the Red Tongue. I would recommend this book, although it's not my favorite. Groups that would enjoy this book are people who enjoy fantasies and people that like books where animals have human like characteristics.
DNF at 28%. If I didn't have a pile of books to sift through in three months before moving, I'd probably have more patience. But this is one I won't be taking to Minnesota with me. It's boring, and it makes no sense. These cats are intelligent enough to domesticate deer like cattle, but have no clue how fire works? Sorry, no can do.And for the record, I am obsessed with cats. So I honestly feel a bit guilty about not being more patient with this book. But......I just know I'll never get through it.
I read this book after reading online that it was like Warriors (the popular cat books), but much more mature. Ratha's Creature is a shocking book. Shockingly good, well-written, great characters, and a truly exciting and heartbreaking story. I'm surprised it's meant to be a children's book, as there are definitely scenes I would not feel good about a kid reading, but at least the book seems very realistic. This is the exact kind of animal-based story that I wish there were more of.
