https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/396245.Science_of_Breath
“Science does not need mysticism and mysticism does not need science, but man needs both."Almost a decade and a half ago, I had read a book, The Tao of Physics, that had a lasting effect on me.
The book was all about drawing parallels between particle physics and eastern philosophies (Tao, Zen, Vedas etc.
particle physics) has made tremendous advancements, the approach that the author took to draw the parallels, stands against time.
Fast forward to-date, and I hold a similar book, Science of Breath, written by two doctors and co-authored by Swami Rama, a renowned Yogi of the 20th century.
The book was authored in 1940, and again stands against time!
This book takes several approaches to exploring the breathing process. It looks at breath from a scientific point of view as well as yogic perceptions and manipulations of the breath. This is a dry read, but informative for those interested.
This is a great book about breath awareness.
It's a small book, and could probably be read in one sitting, but I like to read one or two chapters at a time.
This book discusses the importance of proper breathing for our physical and emotional health.
The books explains respiratory physiology and also the idea of breath in yoga.
Some of the breathing exercises they discuss were some I knew, but there are new ones in there.
Overall, this was a great little book and highly recommend it to people who meditate and do yoga to understand the importance of breath awareness.
After finishing this book, I have started setting aside time to focus on my breathing in a silent, still fashion--meditatively, if you will.
The calm, clarity, and focus of mind (and the resultant physical manifestations) is apparent almost immediately.Furthermore, just the simple awareness of my breath has been such a revelation.
In becoming aware of what is happening with my breathing, I have started to exert some small but of control over my breathing, and in doing so, over my mind and my emotional state.
Interesting read. It was a bit more anatomy-focused than I expected, but a great emphasis on this amazing body function we all have and take for granted.
Apart from useful physiology the exercises are in effect restricted for advanced studentsGood but feel that the magic of breath yoga is held out and out of reach for the reader and hardly an attempt is made to make this accessible with encouragement and easy exercises that can be followed and checked against the instruction. There are better books out there. But useful descriptions of the anatomy of breathe and its circulation within the body.
A short, but interesting look at breath from a scientific and a yogic perspective. A cooperation between scientists and an accomplished yogi. A look into something that we take for granted, but which can easily be shown to be of truly great importance to our physical and mental well-being. Breath, the llink between our voluntary and involuntary systems, the supplier of nutrition to all systems of our body, and you can do so much with it.
Definitely worth a read. Learned a lot about the physiology behind breathing and how it connects the body and mind. Also learned that Western medicine largely ignores the importance of breathing and the crucial role it plays in health. Learned about yogic breathing exercises, and how the breath is central in yogic philosophy and practice, and the correct way to practice several breathing exercises. Great book!
Not as rigorous in its presentation of material as I'd like a book that claims to unite Western and Eastern understanding of breath; makes claims unsubstantiated to attempt to bridge the gap between the two. Still enjoyed it, but that might be because I don't know much about the subject area so everything was new, I would not be surprised if I like it less once I read other works pertaining to the same subject.
A good overview on the importance of breathing, how it connects to our various physiological systems and it's importance in the context of yoga. A lot of the book is supported by a solid amount of science as opposed to the rafts of mysticism one might expect though it does touch on some uncharted territory.It's a quick read and you should come away with some tangible advice if you are not already a breathing expert.
A concise look at a big topic We all breathe or we die. As a retired RN and a current Yoga teacher i love this book. Lots of concrete physiology paired with an explanation of the Eastern thought on the Subtle Body . If you want to know more about your body. This is a good book.
Not too dense. Exercises are not well depicted (graphically), but are fairly comprehensive
A good reference.. although I found all lot of content generic and repeated from other texts - didn't find anything unique. But it was a good foundation / essential reading book.
Its very helpful and informative book. And foundation book for all yoga and pranayama practitioners.It gives basic idea how prana/energy flow happens in the lungs.
The first edition came out in 1979, but as its intent is to provide an overview of the anatomy and physiology of breath for yoga practitioners, the fact that it doesn’t access the bleeding edge of respiratory science isn’t all that detrimental.
It both explains why it’s so important to understand and work with breath and introduces the mythic physiology (prana, nadi, chakra, etc.) that has historically been used to explain pranayama (breath exercises.)The second chapter is written by Dr. Alan Hymes and it explains the mechanics of respiration.
With chapters written by Swami Rama and by medical doctors, the book explores both Eastern and Western perspectives for a well-rounded view of the topic, helping the reader to understand first the mechanics of how and why we breathe before delving into the yogic breathing techniques.The Foreword, Introduction, and Chapter 1 give background on the breath and explore the rationale behind focusing on breathing.
Ballantine gives strategies for keeping the nose healthy and functioning properly, including nasal wash (neti pot) and alternate nostril breathing (nadi shodhanam).Chapter 4, written by Swami Rama, expands upon how to regulate the breath and use it to control energy in the body.
62)This “infradian” rhythm has bearing on our sleeping habits:…yogi manuals recommend that one lie on the left side after meals, opening the right nostril and stimulating the digestive process.
Traditionally, too, it is said that when individuals go to bed, they should lie on the left side for five or ten minutes, activating the right nostril to create increased body heat.
67)I’ve taken this to heart and attest to the fact that it works for me!Science of Breath addresses the physiology of respiration, mind/body interaction, prana, and pranayama.
Pranayama 101Interesting take on introducing the interested Yoga student to pranayama.
I liked the lengthy introduction covering some anatomical topics not normally discussed even in a four hour intro to pranayama class.If you've taken an intro class and then read a couple of books discussing pranayama already there still may be a couple of different exercises like "Sandbag Breathing" that you may not have come across before and is actually helpful.
I don't think there're any critically important lessons in technique unique to this book but every reader is different and something might just click.In short, a good introductory book on the "Science" of Breath.
I basically read this book in one sitting. I did this, first, because it's not very long. But, also, it's fascinating. If only science in school could have this immediate connection and application to life. Breath is such a powerful tool and influence, not only in life but also on the yoga mat. For that reason, I highly recommend this book for anyone with breathing issues of any sort (allergies, sleep apnea, sinus issues) as well as for yoga teachers and practicioners.
A must read for any one who doesn't have an idea about the relation of breath to body and mind. The book is an excellent compilation of essays both from the filed of medical sciences and the esoteric path.The book is an excellent juxtaposition of both views that complement and supplement each other.An excellent read!
Good book to read to better understand 'behind the scenes' of breathing and all the great things that deep breathing and breath control can do for your body and mind. Lots of things I already knew from anatomy courses and yoga workshops, but also a bit of new and interesting topics and techniques that I look forward to reading more about in the future
I have owned and read two editions of "The Science of Breath." we used it in my basic Yoga training in 1998. I prefer it over all the pranayama (breathing techniques) books. It is simple and informative.
*Highly recommended.* Ignore the cheesy looking nose on the cover. Gives you real ways to improve mental and physical health through breathing and enough background knowledge / science to convince you it's actually going to work.
This is so fundamental! Anyone who practices yoga should read this.
a great eastern and western look at the breath
This was a quick read but incredibly informative. It honestly changed the way I think about breath in relation to overall health. I highly recommend this book.
incredible book...all yoginis should read!
amazing read though wish there were more on beautiful Buteyko Method
i never knew the nose was so very interesting...
kvkuj
