https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109830.Man_s_Fate
It was translated into English twice, both translations appearing in 1934, one by Haakon Chevalier under the title Man's Fate, published by Harrison Smith & Robert Haas in New York and republished by Random House as part of their Modern Library from 1936 on, and the other by Alastair MacDonald under the title Storm in Shanghai, published by Methuen in London and republished, still by Methuen, in 1948 as Man's Estate, to become a Penguin pocket in 1961.
موضوع رمان درباره ی گروهی از میهن پرستان و کمونیستهای چین است که در روز بیست و یکم ماه مارس سال 1927 میلادی، برای سرنگونی شانگهای دست به شورش، و عملیات انتحاری می‌زنند.
A bad translation can mangle a work beyond recognition; a good translation--as GR's Cynthia Nine attests vis-a-vis Coelho's regurgitations--is capable of turning out something even better than the original, like a much improved version of a crude prototype the author originally wrote.
So in reading a work which is not in its original language it matters a lot which translation you read, and that you cannot really be sure, going gaga over a "masterpiece" you've just stumbled upon, if the same was excellence conceived or excellence in translation.
I am sure I've read about several great writers, though at the moment I remember only Nabokov, who developed their literary muscles translating classics before they wrote their own.
کتابی که با مرگ آغاز و با مرگ به پایان میپذیرد و همچون خون ریخته بر زمین دردناک است ...
کتابی که با مرگ آغاز و‌ با مرگ به پایان میپذیرد و همچون خون ریخته بر زمین دردناک است ...

Poucas personagens haverá na ficção tão tragicamente isoladas como algumas de “A Condição Humana”; e sem dúvida que todas elas se vêem em situações extremas, nas quais a vida e a morte lhes surgem, não sequer como uma alternativa, mas como uma mesma versão do destino, em que a morte é menos escolhida que aceite. (Jorge de Sena, no Prefácio a esta edição)Em  A Condição Humana  a acção situa-se em Xangai, no ano de 1927, quando uma insurreição comunista é esmagada pelo Kuomintang de Xan-Cai-Xeque.
Poucas personagens haverá na ficção tão tragicamente isoladas como algumas de “A Condição Humana”; e sem dúvida que todas elas se vêem em situações extremas, nas quais a vida e a morte lhes surgem, não sequer como uma alternativa, mas como uma mesma versão do destino, em que a morte é menos escolhida que aceite.
Pelo meio, agentes dos interesses estratégicos e económicos externos (da Rússia e do Ocidente).O livro começa de uma forma bastante intensa e cinematográfica, com a descrição de uma cena em que um homem se prepara para matar outro (um assassinato político), e de tudo o que nesse momento lhe perpassa a mente – dúvidas, angústias, convicções, comprometimento.
On one level it is an action novel featuring the siege, by communist and European insurgents, of a police station in Shanghai, political assassinations, and an arms hijacking.
On a larger, more political level, it chronicles the machinations of Russia, the Kuomintang, European industrialists and bankers, and finally the nascent Communist party of China as they decide the fate of the insurgency and the workers and peasants who support it.
On yet another level, it is the story of a dozen principle actors and the moral and philosophical attitudes that wed them, not only to political involvement, but inform their search for the meaning of existence.
A brilliant brilliant book that spoke to me of commitment, fidelity and belief, and the bond that are forged in shared struggles. These aspects are greatly magnified by placing the key characters on the losing side, thus hi-lighting the ever present moments in which choices have to be made, and responsibility taken once those decisions are enacted upon. This is all achieved without recourse to romantic, or heroic cliches, indeed there is a real warmth the emerges from the strong relations throughout the book...I think I'm going to read this again.
The main characters are the party militants, led by Europeans, who have dedicated their lives to this violent ideology, and are determined to win or die trying.
It's a very well told story, with a violent opening that thrusts the reader right into the action, a gradual build-up to the battle, and as a finale the merciless crackdown that follows.
A great introduction to pre-WWII China, which skilfully combines the overarching international agenda and world events with the personal actions of individuals struggling with their internal contradictions and fears.
Am avut sentimentul ca ceea ce scrie autorul nu este deajuns pentru a intelege suficient contextul socio-economic si politic in care se desfasoara actiunea, dar imi parea ca eram provocat la a face investigatii de natura jurnalistica.
Absurditatea mortii lui Cen este unul dintre lucrurile care contribuie la asta.Redau mai jos un fragment care mi-a placut in mod deosebit.“- Credeţi oare că poţi cunoaşte, într-adevăr cunoaşte, pe cineva?
îl întrebă pe bătrân.- Gândirea care vrea să descifreze ce se petrece într-o femeie este întotdeuna subminată de erotism.
Are chef să –i constrângă pe semenii lui să facă ce vrea el.
Vrea să fie mai mult decât un om, în această lume a oamenilor.
The book that made Malraux famous. A story of revolution, and the endurance of humanity in the most despairing and inhumane conditions. The kind of story that's needed, now more than ever.There's a good book in here somewhere. Some of the scenes are incredibly vivid, but much is lost in translation. The prose is clunky, and some explosive scenes are ruined by bad phrasing.Very frustrating - this is the sort of thing that makes me want to learn French. Ah well.Recommended for die-hard revolutionaries, and Francophones.
Memories of spurious, overdone dialogue and phony plot. Memories of a few brilliant passages in the mire too.--------------------------Souvenir de dialogue surfait et d'intrigue émolliente. Souvenir de quelques fulgurances aussi.
Man's Fate was not Malraux's first book, but it is probably the one that first made him famous to a wider literary public, winning the Prix Goncourt in 1933.
Perhaps the most famous line of the novel is a very solid attempt at the (now rather unfashionable) genre of philosophical aphorism: 'The dream of god is to become man but keep all his power.
I'm afraid there is in fact a reason why more people read the novels of Camus than those of Malraux.It's difficult to know how much of the blame lies with Haakon Chevalier as translator.
Malraux's incurssion into the human's nature, his reflections on our destiny and our race's meaning is what (in my mind) constitutes the main value of this book.The novel is much more than just a history of the Communist crashing at the hands of Chiang Kai-shek's Kuomintang in 1927 Shanghai.
Characters dissapear in this novel (Baron deClappique, Valerie) just like in real life (people we browse by in our existence, only to sink in the dark afterwards): We don't learn what happened to them in the end, we'll never know.
The philosophical musings on, well, man's fate – human will as the prime mover, dismissal of all else – were fascinating, but the book dragged at times, bogged down by somewhat stilted dialogue.
However, in all an overly depressing work, and a bit unreal, too forced: the protagonists all share the same bleak outlook, the same drive for death as the final meaning to life, the same passion for their own fate.
There were external – political, personal and military – conflicts, and internal conflicts as some characters struggled to discover their strength of will, but no meaningful ideological conflict, which makes all the philosophical posing somewhat hollow, as if the conclusion drives the actions, rather than the other way round.
Assez aride, beaucoup de détails sur l'organisation des soulèvements : plongée au coeur des groupuscules révolutionnaires.
J'aurais voulu le finir mais il me tombe littéralement des mains toutes les trois pages, ce n'est pas la peine.
Et, pour le lire, mieux vaut réviser son histoire chinoise avant, et avoir une carte à proximité (je déteste ne pas avoir le contexte et les clés de compréhension d'un livre, et c'est précisément le problème ici, en permanence, l'auteur nous perd).
Je mets deux étoiles car je vois les qualités du livre et je comprends ce qui peut plaire, je n'en vois juste pas suffisamment qui me parlent pour continuer moi-même.
Andre Malraux, İnsanlık Durumu adlı eserinde, Şanghay kentinin 1927 yılında milliyetçi Kuomintang ordularınca ele geçirilmesi sonrasında, şehirde yaşanan komünist direnişin hikâyesini anlatır.Niye çalıştığını bilmeden günde on iki saat çalışan bir insan için, ne saygınlık, ne de gerçek bir yaşam mümkün değildir..Bir azınlığın içinde sersemler çoğunluktadır..Bir insanın en derinlerinde yatanla, onu hemen harekete geçirebileceğiniz şey aynı değildir...İnsanın kıskançlığının kaynağı acaba sadece ötekinin neler varsaydığı hakkındaki varsayımlar mıdır?Bir hayat hiçbir şeydir ama hiçbir şey bir hayat değildir.
This novel is widely regarded as the magnum opus of Andre Malraux.
It primarily focuses on four young men- Kyo Gisors ( half French and Half Japanese, son of well known Frenchman known as Mr.Gisors), Chen ( a fanatic who idolizes death), Katov, the Russian toughie, and the Belgian- Hemmelrich.They have a plan – toppling the established order and bring revolution to China.
Unlike Chen’s extreme suicidal ideations, Kyo has a pragmatic approach to everything, especially towards revolution though his relationship with his wife, May is bit strained.Mr. Gisors is an opium addict,a well respected figure among the French population in the city.
La condition humaine is a great existentialist novel written by the extremely flamboyant Andre Malraux who did and saw a great deal in his adventuresome life.
The reader is instantly attracted to these doomed individuals who all must attempt to die a dignified existentist death of which the saddest and most glorious is that of Kyoshi (Zhou en Lai).(In real life of course Zhou en Lai survived and lived to reunite with Malraux in 1965 when Malraux was visiting China on a mission for de Gaulle.)For the last 60 years, French lit undergraduates had found themselves reading this classic at some point usually quite early in their academic careers.
Dans la même vague de la pensée française humaniste, Malraux se distingue au-delà des idées d Sartre ou Camus par son appétence pour la souffrance et la dignité de l'homme.
Alors que pour l'homme absurd de Mondovi, on souffre tous, quelle que soit notre condition, pour Malraux, il faut se demander quelles sont les limites d'acceptation de la souffrance.
S'il existe un but de la souffrance, sera-t-elle raisonnable?~Toute douleur qui n'aide personne est absurde~ Sur le chemin de la vengeance, on rencontre la vie.
Translated to Dutch by the author's friend Edgar Du Perron.
Written in 1933.
These are facts.This is, without doubt, the richest, most dense literature I have ever read.
Every word seems to have meaning.
Every sentence insists itself on the paper and is in a constant struggle with it's brethren to be the most beautiful and most meaningful one.
Reading Malraux is not something you do for leisure.
Ask Camus and Sartre (or Du Perron and Ter Braak).
Actually, I still don't know why I am writing this as I feel that every word I write is an insult to Malraux.
"Não acha que é de uma estupidez característica da espécie humana que um homem que só tem uma vida possa perdê-la por uma ideia?"
نمیدونم مربوط به خود اثر میشد یا مشکل از ترجمه بود، نتونستم ادامه بدم و تمومش کنم. بارها و بارها تا صفحات سی جلو رفتم ولی نشد ک ادامه بدم. جملات ارتباط خوبی با هم برقرار نمیکردن و این باعث میشد تمرکز از دست بره و ذهن منحرف بشه. داستان در مورد انقلاب در چین بود، ک چندان برای من این حرکتای انقلابی جذاب نیست. کتاب را از دست دوم فروشی و بدون شناخت از محتواش و صرفا بخاطر نویسندش خریدم. تا ب اون موقع از مالرو نخونده بودم، البته الآنم نخوندم.
Παρ’ όλα αυτά, αφορμή για να το αναζητήσω σήμερα (στην εξαντλημένη έκδοση του 1963, μτφρ.: Γιάννης Λάμψας, Οι Εκδόσεις των Φίλων) ήταν οι πολλές και μάλλον ενθουσιώδεις αναφορές στην ‘Ανθρώπινη μοίρα’ και τους ήρωές της από έναν ομότεχνο του Μαλρώ, σύγχρονό μας συγγραφέα, τον Stephane Osmont στα ‘Ανεξέλεγκτα στοιχεία’ του (μτφρ.: Αριάδνη Μοσχονά, 2016, Εκδόσεις Πόλις).Ακολουθούν ελάχιστες, πλην ουσιώδεις, αναφορές στο ιστορικό – πολιτικό πλαίσιο εντός του οποίου διαδραματίζονται όσα αφηγείται ο συγγραφέας.
Ένας από τους ήρωες του βιβλίου, ο ‘τρομοκράτης’ Τσεν, συλλογάται ελεύθερα, συλλογάται, δηλαδή, ωραία: «Δεν θέλω να φτιάξω την Κίνα...
It covers a very short time period and focuses on only four or five main characters, mostly but not all communists.Historically, it's a very interesting book.
The best parts for me were where Malraux gets philosophical or delves deeply into the psychology of a character.
Then there are action scenes which are fine, and the hardest parts to read were the political discussions and descriptions.
I didn't have time to go back and check on who was who etc.
I'd like to read it again when I have more time.
Este é um daqueles livros que devemos ler na vida.
A trama tem lugar em Xangai, ano de 1937, em que comunistas e as tropas de Chiang-Kai-Shek lutam pela poder.
Porém não se trata de um livro que narre estes acontecimentos.
Sim, também o faz, mas essa não é a intenção de Malraux.
A sua intenção é mostrar-nos os homens, as suas escolhas e as suas hesitações.
É questionar o que é a dignidade humana (e, claro, a condição humana).
Fá-lo de forma despretensiosa, mostrando os homens perante os factos, as suas decisões, as suas hesitações.
Duvido que as esqueça.
Très soigné et "ambiental". La nuit sur Shanghaï est d'autant plus poétique que le mystère se mélange (ou bien se confond) à l'action révolutionnaire, ultime repaire de la dignité humaine avant la mort. Se relever devant le péril vous transfigure, vous redonne l'espoir. Néanmoins, les détails risquent de rendre confus si l'on n'est pas cent pourcent concentré sur les pages. Ce qui, paraît-il, a été mon cas. 3,4/5
Akmıyor yoldaşlar akmıyorrrrr hiç başlamadan salın derim.
And, Malraux being French, there is of course two Frenchmen (Ferral and Clappique).Malraux's sympathies are clearly with the Communists, and while Chiang himself is not technically a character, he is referred to throughout the novel and never in a complimentary fashion.
While the story flowed fairly well (Malraux constantly shifted scenes from one set of characters to another, frequently linking them up to tie together two disparate strands), I found the dialogue difficult to follow at times.
Certainly Malraux writes from a position of authority as he lived in China during this time period (mid 1920s) and participated in the Communist uprising.
His disdain for French banking interests is also made quite clear, especially at the end.
Mas o autor deixa-nos sobretudo entender que uma revolução está muito para além de idealismos, de sonhos ou de princípios, é acima de tudo tácticas e manobras estratégicas que faz com que o próprio partido comunista abandone os seus defensores quando entende que não poderá vencer, mostrando bem a diferença entre a frieza dos que dirigem e o perfil sonhador dos que são dirigidos, mesmo num partido supostamente seguidor do socialismo.Malraux perde-se contudo bastante no relato de alguns factos e na introdução de algumas personagens.
C'est un sûr gage de son exceptionnelle valeur.
[...] La plus grande beauté du livre - et je ne dis rien de l'intensité de certaines descriptions ou de certaines scènes qui appellent l'image de reproduction cinématographique - est dans quelques conversations terriblement lucides au cours desquelles les personnages, haussés au-dessus d'eux-mêmes par l'événement, livrent tout leur secret.
C'est là qu'il faut chercher l'esprit de l'ouvre, la définition qu'on peut tirer de notre condition.Nous sommes seuls, d'une solitude que rien ne peut guérir, contre laquelle nous ne cessons pas de lutter.»
