https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143820.The_Horseman_on_the_Roof
The descriptions are vivid and you can feel the heat of southern France.The main protagonist is Angelo Pardi, a piedmontese colonel (but still very young), who has temporarily left Italy and is wandering around southern France looking for a friend.
He is doing this in the middle of a cholera epidemic and death is ever present in the book.
He comes across a wide variety of people, all affected by the epidemic (for good or ill) and has a variety of companions and some clashes with authority and with frightened natives.
The horseman, Angelo, who has had to leave Italy because of a duel in which he has killed a man, travels though the French countryside which is festering with a cholera epidemic, and he moves like a dream of light - which sounds so over the top I'd be embarrassed but for the sheer truth of it.
Believe me, every excruciating detail is included - the horrific smells, the paroxysms, the black grinning faces - along with all the ugliness it brings out in people who live in fear of it.Here's a little taste:"My eyes always look at things through a magnifying glass, Angelo told himself.
I'm not usually into adventure novels but this is a strange kind of adventure - as much metaphysical as physical, even though its hero is an expert swordsman (though for proof of this you'd have to see either of the other two Angelo books in English: Angelo - brilliant - or The Straw Man - confused and disappointing but for its one sword-fight, which is jaw-dropping, tear-jerking, astonishing).
Strange that Giono is so little known in English; this is not difficult writing, and he is a household name in France.
★★★  «Se non osa guardare in faccia questo spettacolo, signora, credo che le convenga strapparsi gli occhi. Questo le eviterà la fatica di tenersi le mani sulla fronte. Finito il colera, ci resteranno da affrontare gli specchi.»  1831. Angelo Pardi, colonnello degli ussari affiliato alla carboneria, è in fuga dall’Italia e attraversa la Provenza per raggiungere Giuseppe, suo fratello di latte.E’ un’estate torrida quasi all’inverosimile ed il caldo nauseante non dà tregua in un paesaggio descritt
“L’ussaro sul tetto” (1951) fa parte di una serie di cinque romanzi di Jean Giono con protagonista Angelo Pardi (“Ciclo dell’Ussaro”), personaggio costruito sul modello del nonno paterno: un piemontese carbonaro scappato in Francia dopi il fallimento dei moti del 1821 e poi arruolatosi nella Legione Straniera.Avventuroso e fantasioso quanto un romanzo di spada e di cappa; profondo quanto un romanzo incentrato sul viaggio come metafora di un cammino sia interiore che sociale; palloso quanto un elenco telefonico perché, veramente, la lungaggine descrittiva è estenuante ed incita al salto del paragrafo.Ciò non toglie che sia un buon libro (basta dimenticare le allusioni che in quarta di copertina recitano: “Una storia epica e avvincente, che ci restituisce il clima, le cadenze, i contenuti del grande romanzo d’avventura, da Stendhal a Dumas a Melville.”.
There is no development of character of the sort we have come to expect in a modern novel: There is only a passing through a series of pseudo-random switches in a world that seems to have been overtaken by death.The scenes in the city of Manosque (where Giono lived much of his life) are nightmarish and in a strange way dreamlike: "When the boundaries between the real and the unreal disappear and one can pass freely from the one to the other, one's first feeling, unexpectedly, is that the prison has contracted." For a while, he teams up with a fat, ugly old nun and helps her wash the bodies of the dead:The bell, which Angelo swung every now and then, rang in a pure void.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Prancūzų imsiuos. O ką?! Knyga lietuviškai išleista lygiai prieš 20 metų, o iš antros pagal fondų dydį Lietuvos bibliotekos skaityti paėmiau pirmas. Hm...Viršelį paišė mielas Sigitas Šniras (kartu mokėmės Šiaulių 7-je vidurinėje mokykloje, dabar S.Šalkauskio, Šiaulių dailės mokykloje...). Pasiekus 100 psl. galiu pasakyti, kad ne tik kad nenusivyliau, bet ir padariau sau atradimą. Maždaug tuo metu, kai knyga išleista lietuviškai, prancuzakalbe auditorija romaną įtraukė į geriausių XX a viso pasaulio knygų šimtuką. Verta. Radau apibūdinimą, kad tai pikareskos žanras. Jo apibūdinimas esperanto pseudokalba skamba taip: "La Pikareska romano...estas literatura rakonta ĝenro en prozo de tipo pseŭdomembiografia". Kitas ginčytųs.
Si bien en ese momento esa conexión me extrañó, ahora, después de haber leído "El húsar en el tejado", la novela más prestigiosa de Giono, veo claro cuál debió ser la conexión que realizó el editor que solicitó ese prólogo.Tanto "Ensayo sobre la Ceguera" como ésta, describen un escenario de ruina absoluta en el que la civilización decae en medio de la demencia al ser arrollada por una plaga incontrolable, creando así un clima asifxiante útil para despojar a la civilización de sus refinamientos y señalar cuáles son sus instintos más auténticos.
C'est une belle histoire, riche en réflexions sur l'Homme, avec beaucoup d'aventures, mais je n'ai pas tout à fait adhéré au style, je l'ai trouvé peut-être un poil trop descriptif et plat si bien que je n'ai pas vraiment ressenti les divers rebondissements, tout me paraissait se succéder sans vraie surprise.
Mais il y a aussi beaucoup de belles choses, il y a certes un peu trop de descriptions de la nature mais elles sont parfois splendides !
Et surtout, il y a tout cet aspect très humain, dans ce qu'il a de laid mais aussi, dans la relation entre certains personnages, dans ce qu'il a de plus beau.
Cambia anche il clima – ci si inoltra nell’autunno tra piogge e freddo – ma, a differenza della peste manzoniana, il colera (in gran parte immaginario) di Giono non demorde e anche il passo del romanzo resta grave sullo sfondo di una natura quasi sempre matrigna, dove ai paesaggi calcinati dal sole si sostituiscono aspre colline tra le quali ci si può perdere per mancanza di punti di riferimento.
Moins que son côté roman d'aventures, je l'ai surtout apprécié pour les observations sur les comportements individuels et collectifs générés par la peur d'une menace invisible. Sauve qui peut et chacun pour soi! Rien de tel qu'une bonne épidémie pour révéler nos vrais natures... Et en plus, l'histoire d'amour est assez originale.
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده است؛ میتوانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0113362
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده‌ است؛ می‌توانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0113362
There are several Provences and visitors will soon realize that following the roads in the valleys, it often takes longer than anticipated to link two points that seem close on the map.
About ten years ago, I spent a short holiday in Jean Giono’s Provence, between Banon and Forcalquier.
He finds refuge on the roofs of Manosque (Giono’s town, where his father an anarchist, arrived as a refugee from Italy) and meets there Pauline de Théus, a young aristocrat.
The year is 1832 and Provence is confronted with a cholera epidemic.
Pauline needs to get back to her husband’s castle.
J'ai dû le lire pour les cours, et les scènes de mort, de maladie, de cadavres, m'ont choqué, horrifié et fait peur (à ne pas lire de nuit dans une maison vide si on est un peu sensible comme je le suis). Par contre j'ai beaucoup apprécié l'intrigue et les personnages d'angelots et de Pauline, ainsi que l'écriture de Jean Giono, en particulier les magnifiques descriptions.
A-. I liked this book.
Un combattant piémontais de la liberté se retrouve piégé dans une nature étouffante en pleine épidémie de choléra. Une belle succession de rencontres décrit par une langue ambitieuse.
Ce livre fait partie des romans assez difficiles à définir et qui vous laisse longtemps après l'avoir refermé un arrière-goût en bouche.J'ai bien aimé le récit mais pour moi c'est vraiment la scène finale entre Pauline et Angelo qui m'a marqué à jamais. L'intensité du passage est à couper le souffle et fait de ce roman, à lui seul, une perle rare.
Tiempos de cólera en la Provenza francesa. Un húsar solitario se transformará, a su manera, en un héroe. Entre cadáveres, agonías y podredumbre renacerán la compasión y el amor.Ante todo, un libro hermosamente escrito. Cada expresión parece largamente meditada. Un ambiente sombrío, oscuro con descripciones agobiantes e insistentes sobre los últimos estertores de las víctimas del cólera. No es una novela de amor y ni siquiera es una historia agradable. Es una lección de buena literatura.
Porté à l'écran en 1995.L'auteur (1895-1970) est originaire de Manosque (lieu mentionné dans le roman) d'une famille d'origine piémontaise (le héros est Piémontais).
Sur la route jusqu'en Provence, il voit les ravages causés par une épidémie de choléra.
C'est là, alors qu'il descend dans une maison par le grenier, qu'il rencontre pour la première fois Pauline de Théus qui lui offre courageusement du thé.
Le hasard fait qu'il la revoit sur la route quelques jours plus tard, alors qu'ils fuient tous les deux la ville.
Magnifiquement bien écrit. L'histoire est captivante, les scènes descriptives sont totalement utiles et participent à l'évolution du récit. Le héros est attachant!Un roman déroutant.
The Horseman on the Roof follows the adventures and near disasters of Angelo Pardi, a young Italian galloping, by the seat of his pants, across southern France as he seeks to distance himself from those who want to kill him.
As Angelo dashes across the countryside, he not only must outrun his political enemies; he must also avoid or overtake the French army which seeks to keep the spread of cholera from travelling among the very people who are trying to escape this dread and foreboding disease.
The two continue their journey, confronting a variety of characters, including the countryside and the disease that follows them.
მიუხედავად იმისა, რომ სათავგადასავლო ჟანრის ლიტერატურა დიდად არ მხიბლავს, არ შემიძლია ამ წიგნით მიღებულ შთაბეჭდილებას "წიგნით მოხიბვლა" ვუწოდო, that's blew my mind ! ძნელია გამოვთქვა რას ვგრძნობდი, როდესაც წარმოვიდგენდი იდეალისტ ანჯელოს, მის არაჩვეულებრივ ჩექმებს, მოხერხებულ ქცევას, თავგანწირულობას თანამოძმეთა გადასარჩენად, მის კონტრასტს ძიძიშვილ ჯუსეპესგან... მიუხედავად შიშისა, რომელიც მის სიმამაცეს, დიდსულოვნება, სიამაყეს და თავგანწირვას ერთოდა მაინც არ ღალატობდა საკუთარ პრინციპებს. მიხარია რომ ეს წიგნი ჩემს ხელთ აღმოჩნდა და წაკითხვის ბედნიერება მხვდა წილად ^_^
Striking, graphic adventure of two individuals trying to escape from a terrifying cholera epidemic. A seemingly accurate description of Southern France just before the advent of Napoleon III.The scenes with victims dropping dead on the spot and the terror of the inhabitants are truly gripping. The narration is excellent, the action fast-paced, and the images depicted are quite sharp.This book was rated 9th best book of all time by Le Monde and I can see why.
The translation I stumbled upon was exquisite.
This novel is by far the most 'successful' of Giono's works.
A number of years later another admirer of Giono made an unfortunate film based on this novel, ravaging the storyline and resulting in a travesty.
We can forgive the filmmaker since he no doubt meant well but the novel and the author deserve better.
The novel is picaresque in nature but it is the language that makes the reading so worthwhile.
It is not so famous a piece of writing so it is likely that there is only one translation.
I would like to find it and reread it.

There were things that I really liked about the book and some that I didn't. The mood atmosphere and setting were all really well done. The characterization was really good but at times got a bit cerebral for my wee brain. I have to admit I had to skim parts of it as there were too many similar descriptions of the many cholera victims and after awhile this slowed the book down for me too much.All in all a good book that I would recommend to people who enjoy good descriptions, characterization, philosophy and mood over action and plot.
Epic novel set in southern France during cholera season. This book could more appropriately be called "Love in the Time of Cholera" than the book that's actually titled that. Oh, and did I mention cholera? The number of scenes where people are dying of cholera is excessive, even more so than the movie which is based on it (a very good film). The rambles don't seem to have much point either, and just seem to be different people's view of cholera. The writing is also confusing and very, very slow. The main characters are adorable though.
A story set within a cholera epidemic in France. It is beautifully written, but to me the most fascinating parts are the numerous graphic descriptions of the hellish effects of this awful disease. I tried to find modern photographs of victims but couldn't find any horrible depictions; mostly I found sad dark-skinned children lying in bed. There must be some online photo etiquette in place. Giono is a wonderful writer, and the varying intellectualities of his characters careen splendidly across the the pages.
Landscape and cholera are the main characters, and a couple of charming humans "carry the mirror along the road." Since cholera is still epidemic today in war-torn regions and refugee camps, its portrayal here is more than a matter of historical curiosity. If you don't like description of landscape, or think it just gums up the plot, you probably won't care for Giono. Too bad, as he is certainly one of the 20th century's greatest writers.
Very well written in the original french. If I'm honest I really didn't care about the characters, the adventures and philosophical wonderings but I'm still counting Jean Giono as one of my favorite writers from now on. This book is FULL of amazing despriptions :the weather, the landscapes, the food, the sickness... etc. And as a bonus, I was very happy to recognize some of the places as I live in Southern France.
