https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/185911.When_the_Bough_Breaks
Great read! a good storyline with detailed topic that was both sensitive and interesting..had good narrative with some well developed and defined characters (paperback!)
Soon connections arise to cases of molestation, and Alex begins to suspect that “suicide" Hickle may have been the victim of murder instead.This is an entertaining mystery.
Since that time, every killer is a serial killer, every molester part of some vast molesting conspiracy, and of course there must always be an instance of absorbing action after a suitable number of pages, and even more exciting sudden bursts of action as the plot hurtlles toward is end.Don't get me wrong: When the Bough Breaks is a perfectly acceptable mystery.
I have become a fan of Faye Kellerman's Peter Decker and Rina Lazarus mystery series, so I decided to read her husband Jonathan's first book about Dr. Alex Delaware.
Whereas Decker has been a cop for 20 years and looking to move up ranks, Delaware is a young, retired child psychologist who befriends a detective named Milo Sturgis and helps out on his cases.
In this first book in the series we find Delaware bored with early retirement.
This makes for a fast reading, psychological detective case.
All in all, a fast read and a series I will most likely revisit.
This wasn't the first Alex Delaware novel I'd read.
In my experience, the Alex Delaware novels are a bit hit and miss.
It's a rewarding experience and one well worth your time if you're looking for a good mystery / thriller to read.Kellerman really plumbs the depth of disturbing human behaviour, and this novel is no exception.
The theme was actually extremely valid, considering current events at that time, and which I obviously can't list here for spoiler reasons.Kellerman is a very competent wordsmith and once the novel gets its second breath it really takes off as the mystery is unravelled.
But the child is deeply troubled and is unable to give the police any useful help.Alex's friend, homicide Detective Milo Sturgis, convinces Alex to examine the girl in the hope that Alex can get her to open up and give the police the description of the killers that they so desperately need.
The idea of a child psychologist as the main protagonist in a series of crime novels was a brilliant stroke, and Kellerman, who was himself a child psychologist, created a very convincing character in Alex Delaware.In this, and in most of the early books in the series, Alex's psychological skills were central to the stories.
Despite his privileged life, earned through endless 24/7 hours of hard work, not simply due to background, he is empathic to the problems of the weak and helpless, very rare for people like him.
I read this one when I was a young kid myself and I loved Alex and Milo.
I did not for one second realize the echoes of other marvelous historical mystery writers were in every page of this book until this reading, disguised by American cultural genre writing.
Never is privilege put to better use except in genre fiction, and when the writing and characterization is this good, I love it.
This was the beginning of it all! Jonathan Kellerman pulled me into the Alex Delaware series, hook, line, sinker. If you haven't checked it out. Do so! So good!
Her brother Miguel was killed.Some of the possible murderers/patients include Rex Allen Camblin; Peter Lewis Jefferson; Michael Penn, a nasty piece of a student (Julie is one girl he’s stringing along while he sets up Sonya Magary who owns Puff ’n’ Stuff Children’s Boutique); Lance Arthur Shattuck; Maurice Bruno, a v-p in charge of sales at Presto Instant Print; Roy Longstreth, a pharmacist who collects Icarts from whom Handler tried a little extortion; and Cpl. Gerard Paul Mendenhall.La Casa de los Niños is……a children’s home for the homeless and "chronic wards of the Dependency Court".
3  stars. Slightly above average. Ok as a mystery.The beginning was very good. I liked the way Alex investigated. Example, Alex needs to talk to a 7 year old girl who saw something. The girl’s mother is ignorant and poor and keeps the daughter on drugs to keep her quiet. Alex talks to the girl’s Doctor who prescribes the drugs. The Doctor won’t stop the drugs, he has a huge ego, he talks down to Alex. Alex befriends the girl. They go to the beach and a merry-go-round. There’s a whole mini story
Alex talks to the girl’s Doctor who prescribes the drugs.
It’s not just Alex going to the girl, asking questions and then leaving.Alex talks to many people during the book, which are like mini stories, but the reader doesn’t get any good clues until the end when there is a tell-all.
That was ok, but it’s not my preferred type of mystery.In later sections of the book, my mind occasionally wandered, but not too bad.The subject matter of raping children may bother some readers, but no details are shown.I liked the narrator Alexander Adams.
I’d recommend this for all fans thriller / phychological thriller fans.
This was interesting, written very well with lots of twists and turns that I didn’t see coming.
‘They didn’t talk because nobody knew how to listen,’He played with his hands, constructing ten-legged spiders and killing them.Above the action and intriguing plot line, I think I enjoyed Alex (the main character) reading people and narrating his thoughts on them.
For someone who’s always been envious of people who can evaluate someone quickly this appeals to me and I found it very interesting.
After following through with the favor of hypnotizing a small child, Alex finds he can't let go and continues forth with the investigation on his own.It's a great introduction to the series, giving one a good idea of the main characters at play, yet holding onto the usual awkward stumbles of a first book.
Milo's wit that comes later and the discoveries he feeds Alex (and vice versa) end up working so much better.The mystery is as usual a complicated one, and Kellerman's typical knack for distracting the reader works its magic.
Alex Delaware was brilliant in the beginning. A child psychologist who went where no crime 'detective' had been before. Melody Quinn is a seven-year-old witness to crimes committed by a psychiatrist who has manipulated and extorted his patients for years.Jonathan Kellerman had a beautiful beginning with Alex.
The first Alex Delaware book that I read was thirteen in the series.
Anyway, I lucked out in finding this British Omnibus and here I am finally getting to it.The series starts out with an introduction of the background of the main characters, Alex and Milo.
I wonder what he and his characters are like in the present tense, in January 2014, and I want to read his most recent book and then go back to the beginning of the series.
This means that when I finish this first book in the series I can fast forward to pretty close to present time, 2010.
I really enjoy this mystery series. Both the author and the main protagonist are child psychologists, and so the books have many characters that are children, and I love reading books about kids. This is the first book in the Alex Delaware series. As with most mystery series, because of the growth & development & life changes of the recurring main characters, they should be read in order for the most enjoyment.
The very first Alex Delaware novel. Dr Delaware must unlock the secrets of the case from a child's mind, and it interacts with his own past. This single link in a 40 year conspiracy leads Dr Delaware to uncover unspeakable evil.
I've read everything Kellerman wrote. If you like mysteries and the added element of a character that continues throughout, you'll love these - I really enjoyed them! I think there is a new one out now...
When I read that this was the first Alex Delaware book Jonathan Kellerman had written (or at least published), I was actually looking forward to see how Alex and Milo met and became friends.
It was the first Alex Delaware book, not the first case for Alex and Milo.
Since this is Jonathan Kellerman’s first novel, I think, it’s understandable that those are not the characters we know from later novels.
I mean, they also talk a lot in the following books, but it’s more like… good-natured ribbing; the actual dialogue takes place between the lines, what’s said is what ISN’T said, if that makes sense.
This is the first Alex Delaware book published (I've read several...all out of sequence) ...and it was very good; great plot, gave me the backstories of why Alex got out of an active therapy practice, and explained more about Milo's struggle being a gay man in the police force.
There are no personal computers, cellphones, iPods, and Siri, etc.I wasn't crazy about some of the dialogue between Alex and his girlfriend Robin..."hon", "baby", etc.
I loved Alex and Milo's personalities though and the plot involving quite a few discordant characters and murders coming up all connected was done very well.
Parts of it were entertaining, but other parts seemed pretty far-fetched.
I wanted to like it, since there are so many in the series, and since this is only the first, I'll read more to decide.I think the most far-fetched part is that a psychologist, who was traumatized finding a dead body in his office, could suddenly become a policeman with skills in fighting and handling the bad guys so well.
It also seems like he did some things that were pretty illegal along the way.
But overall, it was pretty good, and some good lines here and there.
Damn Jonathan back at it again with the slow pacing.
Alex Delaware is an amazing protagonist to follow, and Milo always cracks me up - love the guy. A highly recommended series for anyone into psychology or myteries.
I did like the construction of the investigation which is partly Milo doing police legwork, Alex doing his own bit, and them going out together and also talking things out between them.
These last parts were maybe my favourite as their dynamic is great.When the Bough Breaks is also clearly a set up for a series with huge chunks of character building for both Alex and Milo.
It was weird meeting them "for the first time" when I actually know them far better, already having read seventeen books into the series.
3 stelle e 1/2. Non male come puro intrattenimento. Forse un po' tirato per le lunghe, ma la storia "prende". L'autore è uno psicologo, e il protagonista (Alex Delaware) è, appunto, uno psicologo infantile. Mi sembra cosa buona. E' il primo di una serie, metto in lista il secondo.Segnalo un esilarante "specialista in pediatria infantile", non so se è così nell'originale o se è uno svarione di traduzione.
An interesting medical/psychological thriller
We'll see if I manage to make it to our actual chosen book.
I also enjoyed the secondary characters as well, Robin the girlfriend (I'm curious to see how long she'll last) and Milo the homicide detective.
Since I have had children, sometimes these kinds of themes are really hard for me to read-- but Kellerman was able to weave the story in a way that worked for me.
it was hard at points, but I was invested in the story enough that I wanted (was compelled) to keep reading and see it through.
That is until his friend, a police detective, Milo Sturgis asks him for help on his latest case.Alex’s interest is piqued by the case, but doesn’t plan to get overly involved, just help out.
Then he met Melody Quinn, the seven-year-old, lone witness to the double murder.
She and her mother live in the same apartment building as the psychiatrist and his girlfriend that were murdered and she is the only one that can help with this case now as Milo has no other leads.As he gets Melody to trust him and open up, Alex realizes there is more to this case than just a double murder.
This is my first Kellerman/Delaware book and I wasn't aware that the Delaware series was as long as the Lucas Davenport series by Sandford.I liked Alex as a character quite a bit.
Like most of the stars in this type of book, Alex gets too involved, goes rogue and tries to solve the case on his own.
He is able to uncover tons of things the cops weren't able to find, gets hurt, rescues people and becomes a beloved thriller character.The best part about this book is that even though it was written in 1985, it really didn't seem dated at all.
That says a lot about Kellerman's skills as a thriller author.I think I found a new series to read!
This is the first book in the Alex Delaware series.
I went back to the beginning here, after having received and read a couple of the later books.
(If you've read some of my other reviews, you'll notice that this is a trend with me).Jonathan Kellerman must have taken a couple of classes at the Kathy Reichs School of Unbelievable Coincidences before coming up with a couple of the plot twists in this one.
And the child abuse ring is kind of a tired trope.
But overall, this one wasn't awful.
It just wasn't as taut as the later Alex Delaware thrillers I read.
I honestly tried to like this book.
Sadly, I won't be reading the rest of the books.
For the first half of the book I kept wondering what Eve Dallas (from JD Robb's In Death series) would do.
Then as the book progressed, I started wishing that Eve Dallas was there because some random psychologist was breaking all sorts of laws and doing really horrible things.
I actually had to take a few minutes from the book because I was so angry at the lead character because of his stupid actions.
It goes without saying that this book was not for me.
Wow, was this book disturbing on so many levels. But a great mystery, well-written and action packed for sure. Alex is a bit careless,a litte reckless, but a good guy. And Milo. My gods, MILO! LOL Don't blame him one bit though. Odd side note: the dinner double-date at the end made me cry. Why? I have no idea, but it did.Definitely going to read more of this series.
