https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25744928-deep-work
By following the advice, I think it could be genuinely life changing.Things I personally am planning to change after reading the book:- A rekindled commitment to eliminating distraction/shallow work from my life.
The idea is that by putting deliberate thought into what you do, you'll be less inclined to procrastinate.- It's important to plan ahead so that things like hunger don't interfere with your work.- Perhaps the most important thing I learned from this book is how dangerous it is to constantly cave in to procrastination cravings.
If you do one thing to improve your life this year, subscribe to Dr. Newport's blog and start reading his books.
I would suggest starting with "So Good They Can't Ignore You" and then read "Deep Work." They compliment each other.
The first helps you sort out what you should be focusing on, and the second one tells you how to make sure what's important gets done.
Over the years I've read lots of productivity books, and the related literature.
But his approach to work impacts me everyday, and nothing has done more to change how I work and how I define success.
Worth reading.
Helped me make some drastic changes in my schedule.
Spend most of the time on it, mostly in the early hours of your day where your attention span is long.3.
Almost anything other than your main task is a shallow task.5.
Bunch all the shallow tasks into one deep task.6.
Nature helps to retain your attention span.7.
Email and Internet in general is a huge attention sucker.What I disliked: 1.
It is hard to remember what the rules are after reading the whole book.
I did not like the way the content is organized.
Some places it felt like fillers.
You might abandon email.The problem is that the real ideas (have sender filter their own email, take time away from office, take email sabbaticals) might work for specialists, freelancers, entry-level workers or academics, like the author.
Another problem is that the author continously touts his own horn.
How many books he wrote.
How much he travels.If you want original ideas, this is the wrong place.
Read David Allen instead, whose ideas permeate this book to a degree, but who cannot be quoted every second page although he should be.
An author like Jonathan Franzen can more easily shrug off Twitter and other social media, and instead engage in mostly deep work, because anything he writes gets a lot of attention already, because he's a famous/popular author.
These are things Cal seems to mostly ignore (in between reminding you every five pages that he published 9 papers in a year).So I found some of his conclusions slightly flawed (in their methods or their data to back it up), even if the point of the conclusions (that you will be more productive if you eliminate shallow tasks), I did buy.
File under - Shallow writing that should have been a blogpost at best.This book is mostly random commentary on other people's work and content. Almost nothing is original and no studies have been conducted by the author himself. The author's contribution is simply - this researcher found this, I do it this way and you should do it too.The irony of this book is that the subject matter expert on deep work has produced such shallow content.
The author, for one, is a professor whose goals are to secure tenure, publish a ton of highly cited academic papers, and win the equivalent of a Nobel prize.
If your life goals sound similar, he's got tips for making it happen.This book is less useful for people whose priorities include critiquing/reforming elitist institutions, cultivating deep and meaningful relationships (and not sacrificing these for worldly success), practicing forms of love that don't necessarily advance one's career, and mentoring others who have grown up with fewer privileges than your typical "knowledge worker." The author isn't offering advice about how to keep and nourish the relationships that, for some, make professional "success" worth pursuing.
That said, he smartly describes the kind of tunnel vision and hard-nosed decision making that constitute an *efficient* path to capitalistic success for aspiring elite experts.
These efforts create new value, improve your skill, and are hard to replicate.” Cal Newport offers a very compelling argument as to the value of finding organising those periods when we all need to focus on the work/knowledge we need to obtain to further our professional goals and ambitions.
Newport provides a framework for achieving this way of deep life, but it does require drastic changes to your lifestyle.
Newport does suggest that to live the life of Deep Work we need to put the distraction of social media aside so we can deploy our minds to its fullest capacity to create things that matter.
Leaders in the next generation will have the power to put away distraction and enter into deep work.
Try waking up early and starting your day with a few hours of deep work.
Over times, this habit will increase your ability to think deeply (work it out just like a muscle).
- Study like Theodore Roosevelt - Focus in short intense bursts of deep work, not long drawn out marathon study sessions filled with interruptions- The 'any benefit' reason for using social media platforms is not a good reason for using them.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Dilettantes at Heart: "Deep Work" by Cal NewportD Work?EEPHang on a second, I just need to head over to the RTP1 to check on the weather.
The rain that was forecast ten minutes ago might not be coming after all.
Oh look, there's a cat juggling mice.
I wonder what Donald Trump is up to.
And there's someone talking shite about gun laws in the USA.
He's wrong, he needs to be corrected.
He's wrong again.
What do you mean, it's tea time?
Focus on what?
Oh, look, a squirrel!
This marvelous book provides you with a great mindset, valuing deep work resulting in astonishing achievements.
The deep work book is organized in two sections:  1.
The first convinces you of the importance and necessity of deep work in order to live a fulfilling and productive life.
2. The second part of the book begins to offer practical advices on cultivating a deep work routine along with tactics to refine and preserve it constantlyThis book was really amazing, incredibly well written, enriched with great amount of refined experience and I absolutely recommend it to any one who longs productivity and achievement of gigantic results and accomplishments.
These kind constants help you get it to the deep work state quicker.Rule #2: Become comfortable with boredom.The enemy of deep work is your mind's desire for distraction.
That moment when you hit a mentally taxing part of your work you're going to feel the desire to check your facebook, have a chat with a colleague or open up your phone.
Here is a handy hack: When you have a moment of boredom, and the desire to check your phone arises say this to yourself: "I can play with my phone, but only after I've waited 5 minutes".This detaches the reward from the desire.Rule #3: Quit Social Media'nuff said really.
This book is a great example of the kinds of literature they produce - it contains important information and some actually good critiques/ techniques for sharpening attention and the effectiveness of one's work.
Because the book is so straightforward, it's easy to reverse-exploit it in this way.So I suggest activists and those in the healing profession get on this and other stuff like it.
It’s well written and quick and the author has covered the field.The thing is, we in the healing professions and activism work with ATTENTION.
Many good pts, but barely any women and a single unneeded Trump reference
A shallow, poor quality book about deep work.
The central idea is about scheduling distraction free blocks of time to help you reach a state of flow with your work so you can achieve more.
The useful content could be summed up in about 10 pages.
While I agree with the value of deep work, it’s not a new idea.
And there’s nothing new here.
I closed this book wondering if Cal Newport has it all wrong.
I think he might do better to get off the academic publishing treadmill he has shackled himself to and prioritise quality over quantity in future.
One of Newport's main building blocks here is the concept of ego depletion: that our willpower runs down the more we use it.
More recent research has cast doubt on the original framing of ego depletion, but still it holds a deep sense of truthiness.
Still, Newport's suggestions of ritualizing behaviors in order to minimize my likelihood of slipping into shallow work resonates with me.It's noteworthy that the book is written for people whose day job involves deep work.
If you're a peon during the day and trying to engage in your own creative deep work in the evenings then many (most?) of his suggestions wont be applicable.
Wholly convincing exploration of why focus is valuable, why it has become rare, and how to cultivate it. Worried that you're an Old Person in an employment sector overrun with Millenials like software tech? You won't be after reading this. The perfect complement to It Doesn't Have to be Crazy at Work. While that book focuses on the org, this is completely focused on the individual. I'm excited to try out the suggested techniques and will report back in a few months on what I've seen in practice. NPR's Hidden Brain: interview with the author from 2017
مدتیه که از نگاه کردن طولانی به لپ تاپ و گوشی منع شده ام به خاطر درد چشم هام. مجبورم همه ی کتاب هایی که الکترونیکی هستن رو کنار بذارم از جمله این. تو فکر خریدن یه کیندل هستم. اگر کیندل یا هر نوع ای-ریدری دارید یا تجربه ی کار کردن باهاشون رو داشتید ممنون میشم از تجربیاتتون برام بگید. به همون اندازه ی تبلت و گوشی چشم آدم رو اذیت می کنن یا نه؟
(hide spoiler)]What annoyed me about this little book: - It's too long for its content - concentrate on your work and you'll get results.
- In the whole book there are two (!!) examples of women who use deep work successfully in their lives.
I have a hunch that most people who want/wanted to read this book have no interest in either programming (view spoiler)[because programmers have no time for books, also they already know how to do deep work because that's how you become a programmer in the first place  (hide spoiler)] or scientific research on programming related matters.
Deep work is probably my favorite book I've read this year, and I can't recommend it enough.
In the age of knowledge work, with so many things going on, the ability to do focus and do deep work is a precious asset to have.
As Cal says: "Focus is the new IQ." We can all agree that there's just too many distractions happening around us, smartphones, apps, social media and all the things we're enjoying today have turned us into multi-tasking machines.
As I said above, this is a very valuable book for the age we live in.
Highly recommended!
The latter is a particularly important point given the incessant pressures and temptations of email and internet consumption.So while PK offers a compelling overall canvas for time allocation, it needs to be supported by strategies to reprogram deeply seated behavioral patterns.
The key is, of course, to be able to recreate this setting in a less onerous and costly way.I have now gravitated towards the following approach to routinize and ritualize deep work:First I feel like the bimodal strategy is the one that fits best with my work and my natural rhythm.
Hapishane yaşantılarını dinleyip okuduğum devrimci tutsakların nasıl bir çalışma disiplinine sahip olduğunu bildiğimden, kitabın özdisipline ilişkin söyledikleri o kadar da yeni ve ilginç gelmedi.Bazı noktaları aydınlatıcı buldum:- Sosyal medya diye adlandırılan internet siteleri ve uygulamalar birer ticari ürün.
Çarpıcı bir bilgi.Geri kalan bölümlerde, kapitalist rekabetin doğasını sorgulamayıp "sen en önemlisin, herkes zamanını çalmaya çalışacak, sen kendine bakacaksın" diyen bencilliğin, "Bak Bill Gates böyle çalışıp zengin olmuş; hele şu start-up'ın şimdi çok zengin kurucusu neler demiş" diyen köşe dönmeciliğin hakimiyetini gördükçe irkildim.Araştırma konusu: Kişisel gelişim kitaplarının bu çizgisi, 21.
Neuroscience, sosyal psikoloji destekli bu kişisel verimlilik furyasının temel kabulleri, örnek aldığı kişilikler acaba nasıl bir örüntü gösteriyor?

Cal Newport has upped his game as an author — which is no small feat considering his past work has been phenomenal – with this latest effort.The practical insights and thought that has gone into this book is well worth your time and energy.
Newport has painstakingly crafted a tremendous arguments that proposes we spend more time on work that has greater impact in our lives (and the lives of others) and he also offers some tactical ways to make that happen.As expected, this is a deep read.
It requires a lot of thought and mindfulness — it took me almost a month to get through it – but it was well worth the time spent.I highly recommend Deep Work.
The ideas - as far as I read- were good. But the too many examples of white men that have used those ideas first and succeeded, plus the fact that the writer disregards other variables (like all kinds of privilege, economic status, personal preferences etc) made me lose interest to even skim it to the end.
I enjoyed this book as a pragmatic guide to ordering work and study.
Having come of age during the mid-2000s when Facebook was just getting its wheels, I definitely allowed myself to be blindsided by the seduction of constant social updates.
It also provided some very useful tips - for example, only using those digital tools (like Goodreads!) which add more utility than they take away, time-blocking a day's work in advance, and utilizing a shutdown ritual and a hard stop to end a day's work.
All useful suggestions in doing the work aspect of life well, while not allowing it to intrude on the other things we do.
Unfortunately, this is part of the "culture" where and sometimes people came to just say "hi" and break my concentration entirely.I'm not a big fan of social networks, so I'm not using them in the last years.
Sometimes I decide to get back to some of them just to realize that this book is right on everything about useless time spending.As an experiment I've been trying deep work on my weekday mornings and for my personal project on weekends.
No communication, no social networking, no random internet surfing and more work done.There is some really good information that bases deep working and helps you to apply it to your life.
So this is a 4 because this book is my mantra and my holy book in the War Against Open Offices. It wasn't super convincing (as I already believe in the God of Personal Privacy), but I did really like the bits about constructing your entire day and making your evening after work productive.And yes, I picked it up because I am not achieving any of my non-work/non-reading goals and need Life Structuring advice.I have been preaching the gospel to my colleagues.(thanks netgalley!)
Si tengo que accionar un libro en 2017 se trata sin duda de "Deep Work" de Cal Newport.El subtítulo lo resume a la perfección: "Rules for Focused Success in a Distracted World".
Llevo varios días así y he reducido esa impulsividad de consultar constantemente el smartphone.Deep Work me ha hecho tomar consciencia de que hay que dedicar espacios de tiempo prolongados sin distracciones y con una alta concentración para poder ser realmente productivo y lograr tus objetivos.
Y para producir cosas con frecuencia y de calidad hay que concentrarse mucho.No creo que mucha gente pueda aplicar todo lo que Newport propone.
I give the content a 4. Many good things to consider and shift. Many concepts I want to discuss and implement. Unfortunately, Newport only interviews men. It's so frustrating and the book loses value. It would have been so easy to interview some women about their deep work. Could have been so much more.
