https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118797.Emmanuelle
I could easily write a cop-out, only-read-Playboy-for-the-stories type of review here.
Lot of very interesting philosophical insights, perhaps a bit too much sex, that kind of thing.
I wolfed down the first two-thirds of this book, which consist of one juicy sex scene after another.
Then she met dull, creepy, manipulative Mario, and we got started on the philosophy.
She just happens to be much better at writing about sex than philosophy.
But she seemed to have put a lot of work into the philosophy, and it was terrible that I didn't even read that part of the book.
Emmanuelle is 19 years old, and leaves to find her husband Jean, a diplomat in Bangkok, whom she married a few months earlier.
Conversely, it is necessary to look for "non-natural" pleasures, the unusual, with an unlimited number of partners.Emmanuelle is a philosophy of sexuality rather than a simple erotic novel, to be classified in the same category as Sade.
Before this novel, the pinnacle of eroticism was to be whipped on the coffin of his father, with Emmanuelle, place to a happy and bright sexuality.
The protagonist is the young and beautiful Emmanuelle, who joins her diplomat husband in Bangkok (there COULD be something self-referential here) where she's immediately introduced to the fancy élite gravitating around the French diplomacy.After a first class flight spent mostly in a stranger's arms, and this is clearly a euphemism, Emmanuelle is warmly welcomed by the female high society she now belongs to; nobody can resist her beauty, and the generous attitude with which she shares it among her new acquaintances definitely helps.She also meets Mario, a homosexual Italian expat (thanks a lot, Marayat..
Believe it or not this is one of the first novels I ever read...in elementary school about 5th grade. I found it in my Fathers closet..among other things *grin* I know..eww it was my Dad but trust me when I say all I had to do was open the book to forget. I have to say that although I have not reread it since then it is embedded in my memory as one of the most provocative and far from boring books I ever read ; )
(view spoiler)[Emmanuelle engages in some lovely, erotic sex, and when she does this the book is a wonder. Then Mario comes along with his pansexual proselytization and the active erotica becomes a distant memory while Mario delivers his erotic manifesto. There is a nice return to the erotic, though, with a final mmf threesome that was delectable but too little too late. (hide spoiler)]
Read it on a lark but was surprised to find that it was fairly good read for a small paperback erotica. Dealt a lot with hedonistic philosophy and poly ethics. I was impressed by how literate and engaging it was, having watched the spin off television series more than once.
I read this as a teenage boy; not for the philosophical bits at the back!! Enough said.
It's in the second half with the introduction of the character of Mario and his philosophical lectures on man over nature, love, eroticism and fulfillment where it really stops the reader cold.
Spawning two offical sequels and numerous knockoffs, most notably the "Black Emanuelle" films, which starred Eurasian beauty Laura Gemser, who in reality looked a lot more like Emmanuelle Arsan than Kristel.
Even today, you can always find either an Emmanuelle film or one inspired by it on late at night on HBO or Cinemax.
You need to look past the shock value to find the literary genius in this one. I recommend holding out until the final pages which are filled with passages contemplating class, sex, and life itself in a magnificent manor.
Then she begins to limit the impositions others make upon her in their presumptions that she will repeat “lessons” that she merely considers behaviours once she has experienced them.She also gradually shifts between her awareness of those who she feels might be able to teach her more and those who she doubts capable but somehow prove themselves to her in ways that she tests against her own boundaries of knowledge rather than just comfort.
I suffered through the first 125 pages and kept reading, because I thought that it simply had to get better.
When I thought that this novel couldn't get any worse, the entire story took a dreadful, Kafkaesque turn in describing the culture of the Muria people and the means with which they educated their children in the art of love.
(Arsan 136)" There was mention of the caveman drawings of Lascaux on page 156, and towards the end of the book there was a vivid description of what opium looks like.
Insomma: la cornice sensuale idealizzata per giustificare l'esposizione di giovani corpi alla programmatica declinazione del piacere.Ma la seconda parte della storia è un trattato filosofico bello e buono (beh, non so quanto bello e quanto buono); si intitola La legge e, attraverso il personaggio di Mario, italiano colto e raffinato, ipotetico erede di un godereccio Rinascimento, il lettore apprende le regole dell'erotismo e sospende la sua pruderie fino al capitolo successivo che però risulta essere l'applicazione meticolosa (noiosa) delle leggi medesime.La più importante delle quali risulta essere la seguente: " È tempo perduto tutto il tempo trascorso in altro modo che non sia l'arte di godere, tra braccia sempre più numerose".
Well, yes. The first "Emmanuelle" film, made in c. 1974. The very young Sylvia Kristel, with pixie-cut hair. Exotic settings--- Bangkok, the Concorde. Elegantly choreographed sex. Very, very hot. The novel...well, no less hot. Far too much talking, of course--- pages of tortured philosophising about pleasure and the joys of hedonism. But as erotica, some brilliantly powerful moments. All in all, erotica worth having in one's permanent collection.
The beginning of the story promised to be something very good, but it turned out to be a plot extremely bored .. Mario's character could not be more boring with its pseudo philosophical considerations .. totally exaggerated and unnecessary, killing the story instead of the make it even more exciting and full of eroticism. What a disappointment!
ประทับใจหนังสือเรืองนีมาก อานแลวรูสึกมองเหนภาพไดชัดเจน เคยเชามาอานจากระยอง เมือครังไปเทียว นานมากแลว อยากไดเกบไวเปนหนังสือสะสม ใครทีพอจะทราบวามีหนังสือเรืองนีทีแปลเปนภาษาไทยแลวภาษาไทย ขายทีไหน ไดโปรดบอกใหทราบดวยนะคะ ขอบคุณมากคะ
ประทับใจหนังสือเรื่องนี้มาก อ่านแล้วรู้สึกมองเห็นภาพได้ชัดเจน เคยเช่ามาอ่านจากระยอง เมื่อครั้งไปเที่ยว นานมากแล้ว อยากได้เก็บไว้เป็นหนังสือสะสม ใครที่พอจะทราบว่ามีหนังสือเรื่องนี้ที่แปลเป็นภาษาไทยแล้วภาษาไทย ขายที่ไหน ได้โปรดบอกให้ทราบด้วยนะคะ ขอบคุณมากค่ะ
Awesome!
An erotic novel of the 1960s set in Thailand about the sexual explorations of a young woman. Very explicit.
A lovely, lilting ode to sensuality; an exquisitely written mix of innocent exploration and intellectual understanding.
This novel's as hot as august 1st. And moreover there's a certain rhythm to the prose which keeps one's interest aroused for the vast majority of the reading.
em is annoyingeveryone is annoyingmarie anne is a special kind of annoying
To quote the husband of the woman who recommended this, I'm "reading it for the philosophy".
This is non-stop intimate action. I read this book twice. Loved it!
Will give you sexy dreams.
This semi-autobiographical novel written under pen name of Emmanuelle Arsan straddles genres of erotica and literary erotica.
One could have interest in reading this due to it being one of the first books of erotica written by a woman back in 1970s, especially when it is based on the real life of the author and her husband.
It was later found that it was actually written by her French diplomat husband.As for the book, it cannot be considered purely erotica since most of the second half dabbles in philosophy.
But much could have been lost in translation.Overall, it should be read once by anyone who is interested in literary erotica.
Everyone in this book is too annoying and the plot is boring as its characters.
Prior to that Emmanuelle is running around having fun with some of the other women in Bangkok, with her husband, and mostly dodging her husband’s visiting friend (if they had a scene in the book, I completely overlooked it; while I’m fairly certain they had one in the movie).
Other than the age of the girl Emmanuelle sleeps with, the first half of the book was quite good.
I’d say something like ‘at this point it’s out of her control’, but, remember, the book opened with her passively letting two men fuck her.
I'm not even certain she wanted to be fucked right then and there but she was.She's a kid who married young, to a man a lot older than her.
And someone Emmanuelle should fuck.
Like, he asked a question, I forget what now, that Emmanuelle replied in such a manner that it was technically true and technically false.
Something like if Emmanuelle had ever cheated on her husband, or something.
It has been a while since I read the book so I'm not certain if it is a situation where I kept expecting Emmanuelle to note that she had, in fact, fucked others and he was full of shit, or what.
Uno es Marie-Anne, una adolescente llena de lujuria y lascivia que empuja a Emmanuelle a tener amantes, a disfrutar del sexo sin reparo.
Gracias a Marie-Anne conoce a un noble italiano, Mario, quien no sólo va a llevarla por nuevos terrenos filosófico-morales en relación al sexo, la sexualidad, el erotismo y el amor, también la llevara a experimentar el sexo de una manera en que no la espero nunca.Emmanuelle es un libro deliciosamente escrito, provocador en todas sus páginas y lectura prohibida tanto para mojigatos sin remedio como para aquellos que no pueden sobrevivir a las explícitas descripciones de Arsan.Para todos los demás, es un libro para disfrutar.
There is a bit too much focus on justifying actions.As a work of erotic fiction, it is a pleasant diversion.
Her journey, however, seems to be at cross purposes throughout the remainder of the book.The point where the plot virtually stops dead is an interminable chapter called The Law. Here, we are introduced to a guru of sexual discovery who spouts platitudes that would be at home in the Church of Satan.
The book is actually very well represented by the first movie with Sylvia Krystel.
Practically the entire last half of the book is the extended sequence where she is turned over to Mario for her sexual education, very much like in the Story of O.
But in between the interminable and boring philosophical blather from Mario, the action becomes much more rapey and creepy than could possibly have been represented in the movie.
Maybe this is quite what the author was getting at.
Maybe this is what her life experience was and I'm supposed to be uncomfortable.
I ended up doing a play based on the script of the movie.
