https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17285330-the-last-time-we-say-goodbye
One of the most beautiful parts of the Unearthly trilogy was seeing how Cynthia Hand wrote about grief. Reading this novel is an incredibly painful experience, particularly if suicide has touched your life in a significant way, but I wouldn't trade this book, with all its blurry, unfinished truths and messy, gut-wrenching feeling, for a thousand more showy, "clever" stories on the same topic. A simple, emotional tribute to those who leave us all too soon. And a small reassurance to the rest of us that we're not alone in our sorrow. 4.5 stars
Squee!Also, a tentative release date of Feb 8, 2015, which makes sense because the book's first scene is in the first week of February.Another update soon to come!CHUPDATE 1-20-14Okay people I can tell you a title.
There's no official date yet (although I am guessing early winter 2015) and no official cover (although they are working on something SO COOL) but I will give you the title.
You had it here first.The title is:THE LAST TIME WE SAY GOODBYENow I must go back to revising it.xoCH(old news below)Just signed the contract for this book this week!
I can't wait until I get to tell you the title and what it's about.CH
I've kinda been avoiding contemporary YA because, even though I haven't read many of the new stuff, there seems to be a common thing going on where authors are exploring death in a kinda quirky, lyrical type of way, mixing it in with surrealism and wit and charm and whatnot.
So yeah, I've been carefully avoiding contemporary YA because I didn't like the whole whymsical approach towards death type thing that's been going on nowadays.
Exactly.I don't know what it is about Cynthia Hand, but I've felt it ever since I finished her wonderful Unearthly series.
The mysterious elements throughout the novel also kept me intrigued and eager to finish the book.In the end, I was able to fully grasp the intention of the novel and that is to emphasize that nobody can be blamed over a suicide except for the person who committed it and I’m very glad for Lexie when she finally comes to terms with her brother’s decision and ultimately reconnect with her family, her friends, her boyfriend and especially with herself through this unexpected plot twist.
The characters were very fleshed out and I especially liked Lex and the way her mind worked in the aftermath of this tragedy.
It didn't linger on the pain, yet it was a reminder of how deeply death can affect a family.
And despite how I generally liked how this book panned out, it was just a bit too generic for me.
Every suicide book has turned into a "this person left clues behind when he/she died!" and it kind of glamorized the death a bit, which I find distasteful.
Wonderfully written and absolutely touching! Do you know the feeling you get while and after you hold your breath for long? How time seems to stop for a while, how your heart beats faster and faster, how sharp everything becomes after the fuzziness washes over?This is how this book feels like.And it is wonderful, and dangerously heartbreaking.There is nothing in this world quite like the feeling of true happiness, or deep sadness, or shattering grief. There is nothing like the words that can rea
How time seems to stop for a while, how your heart beats faster and faster, how sharp everything becomes after the fuzziness washes over?This is how this book feels like.And it is wonderful, and dangerously heartbreaking.There is nothing in this world quite like the feeling of true happiness, or deep sadness, or shattering grief.
All in one this book here is absolutely great, not only for fans of Cynthia Hand, but for everyone who likes to read emotional stories.
All of us know Cynthia Hand because of her brilliant Unearthly trilogy - my favorite paranormal young adult series about angels.
I finished The Last Time We Say Goodbye at three in the morning and I just sat there in my bed, completely wrecked, fighting with the urge to go into the next room, wake up my sister and tell her how much I love her and how happy I am that I have her and that I'm sorry for every time I hurt her feelings.
That is something that Cynthia Hand points out in the note at end of the book, but it probably wasn't easy for her to write about something like this.
{EDIT}The Last Time We Say GoodbyeTHIS TITLE IS AMAZING!!!!!!!!! I'M IN LOVE WITH THIS BOOK ALREADY!!!!!!!!!2015? REALLY?!OMGOMGOMGOMGOMGOMGOMGOMGOMG Cynthia Hand has a new book coming out![image error]But it'll be released in 2014!!Give me a title...a cover...a blurb...ANYTHING!
I agree with Tatiana. This book is just so dull. It's hard to string together a few sentences of comments about it. The thing about The Last Time We Say Goodbye is that it's yet another teen issue book about suicide, but the characters are forgettable and the narrative feels flat and lifeless.You might have more luck with it if you haven't already read a bunch of YA books about suicide/death.
Celine's review.
And you all should check it out because it's wonderful and she summarises the beauty of this book so perfectly: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
It may only be January but I'm so incredibly sure that this is making my Top 10 books of 2015.
It tore me apart, this book, with it's perfect blend of numbing words and tangible pain.
I know I'm buying myself a hardback of this when it finally releases just so I can cuddle with it and bookmark all my favourite bits.
(Though let's be honest, that would just be bookmarking every page.)
It felt strange to me, getting that call and then having to deal with the logistics like printing out photographs, figuring out how to break the news to the students, when those things are probably the last things on your mind.The person that died was a boy, in his last year of high school.
The boy, his little brother.The sister, her parents.I still can’t fully imagine, and I hope to never experience it.But Cynthia Hand has shared that experience with us, and it hurt.
If I had to make a comparison, I’d say The Last Time We Say Goodbye is most alike Hallowed, because both books are essentially about grief.Alexis’ brother Tyler shot himself.
Lex is this wizard at maths and she's NOT good at writing (har, har, after her diary?
But once the story got going...it was an emotional rollarcoaster.It's really focused on those who get left behind after a suicide.
The author brilliantly wove Lex's mathematical and logical personality into emotional moments that hurt.
I LOVED THE BOOK A LOT.
IT'S JUST HARD TO EXPLAIN.)The book also touches on the fact that depression isn't always super obvious.
Like the book was a prelude for the fantastic, emotional ending.
Life is unfair and this isn't a happy book.
Quero deitar no chão abraçado com esse livro e ficar ali.Amei essa leitura, acho que ficou claro, né?
É um livro lindo.A temática de suicídio e todo processo de luto e cura foi abordado aqui de uma forma muito real, emocionante e valorosa.
Não foi escrito pra te entreter e emocionar, foi escrito pra gritar essas palavras na sua cara.
É uma leitura indispensável.Sendo um pouco técnico, só tenho a dizer que amei a narrativa, a sucessão dos acontecimentos, a relação dos personagens, a ambientação...
É um livro muito gostoso de ler, apesar de te deixar com uma dor no coração ao acabar.
She follows the tradition of such novels having heroines who have their interests embedded in a particular subject, have parents with nil interest in their children's mental health, have a therapist; who they slowly realize is right and one way or the other crawl out of the black hole of their black-out.In Alexis's case, she's a math maniac, her therapist is Dave who recommends she writes in a journal to vent out her feelings and her mother just washes down her pain with the aid of valium and alcohol and her father's role is mostly useless.
Having said all this, there is one factor that needs attention viz; the emotions are described pretty strongly in a few scenes which earns a badge of credit to the novel.To sum up, in a mathematical equation:bog-standard story + hackneyed character = average read.
3.5*I thought this was a solid book, it dealt with the topic of suicide well, but I just felt like the plot fell a little flat. I just wanted more I guess.
We're dealing with death, grief, depression, denial, and everything in between, and these emotions are all very real and unflinching.
Lex was given a journal to help with her grief, so we get to feel through her own words exactly what she's going through - the anger, the sorrow, the borderline overwhelming hurt - as well as exactly how much she loved her brother with her stories of their past together.
Seeing Lex go through the blaming and the guilt and all the other stages of grief made this all the more authentic.
Raw, honest, realistic, and heart wrenching are words that come to my mind when trying to describe this book.
I was especially touched by the message of forgiveness throughout the story, and it ended on a hopeful note even though it wasn't an easy read.
The author's note at the end broke my heart even more, but I'm glad I read it, and I'm thankful to her for sharing her personal story.
Review also posted at Young Adult Hollywood.I am a pretty sad person, I cry over books, even when they are not  that  sad and even more so, when they are depressing. And The Last Time We Say Goodbye made me cried from the very start until the end. FYI, more like gross sobbing.Cynthia Hand’s Unearthly trilogy is one of my favorite YA series, but the conclusion failed to impress me, so it’s safe to say I had my doubts. My fear did not lessen when I noticed the premise is quite similar to Love Lett
Review also posted at Young Adult Hollywood.I am a pretty sad person, I cry over books, even when they are not 
And The Last Time We Say Goodbye made me cried from the very start until the end.
The protagonist, Lex struggle with that guilt and the blame.No flowery words would ever be enough to describe how raw and grounded The Last Time We Say Goodbye is.
And from writing paranormal to contemporary books that dealt with mental illness, Hand’s transition was very smooth.
The emotion would hit every reader right into the gut.This is the kind of book, every reader would like to read.
idk if im just an emotional wreck but there's this one line in the book that figuratively ripped me apart wow, i was not expecting it to hurt this much.
:)so this book deals with A WHOLE LOT of grief.
it deals with suicide but not about just dying and leaving but also the journey and emotions and grief that the people left behind face on a daily basis.
and that was just, wow.
But Cynthia Hand's story reminded me that instead of blaming ourselves for things outside of our control, we should strive to treat ourselves and those around us with kindness and compassion, no matter how much we hurt.The Last Time We Say Goodbye revolves around Lex, a high school senior whose brother died by suicide.
Instead of fetishizing a sensitive topic, she centers the story on Lex's grief and her recovery process.
Lex and the people she interacts with come across as three-dimensional and unified in the pain they share over Ty's death.Overall, a stellar book about the loss of a loved one.
Essa é uma história extremamente bonita. Me emocionou de um jeito que nenhum outro livro YA conseguiu. Senti as dores dos personagens, sofri e me importei com eles e torci até a última página para que tudo ficasse bem. É um livro que faz chorar sem precisar de fórmula. Fala sobre família, luto, perdão, culpa e quando você vai percebendo a grandiosidade dessa história, é impossível não se emocionar.
It made me feel all these emotions and I realized so much when I was reading this book.
The best books are the ones that you think about days after you've finished reading it.
I don't think I've cried more in my life while reading a book.
Okay so maybe all the character’s in fantasy or dystopian books aren't real and what's happening to them isn't happening to people in real life but in books like The Last Time We Say Goodbye.
This book is extraordinary and although I cry all the time in books I'm crying for a different reason.
And then cry some more.Lexie's brother, Ty, committed suicide at age 16.
Life doesn't have simple answers though.Lexie pushes her friends away.
Lexie also tries to figure out if there was a specific reason why he decided to end his life that day.
There is no right way to help a friend or daughter or girlfriend out of it.
Lexie reconnected with a neighbor that helped her through it but then it was sad because her best friend was trying so hard to help.
I loved Lexie's boyfriend Steven.
Lexie needed time though and pushed him away too.
4,5 ★
Termino esse livro de uma forma que eu não imaginava estar.
No início eu estava até um pouco impaciente, porque a grande maioria de livros YA contemporâneo giram sempre em torno de uma tragédia e de como o personagem principal tira grandes conclusões sobre a vida.Isso acontece nesse livro?
Sim. Mas...A cada página que ia se passando a autora descrevia a história de uma forma TÃO realista.
E realmente, quando terminei o livro não foi surpresa ler que a autora passou por essa mesma situação que ela escreveu.
Ao ponto de eu terminar pensando que esse é um dos melhores YAs que eu li na vida.
A story about loss, love and having the ability to move on from something that will forever change you.Lex's struggles and heartache and even hallucinations of Tyler were heart wrenching to read.
I could easily slip into her mindset and stay there throughout the whole book.
Though she's different than others I have read because she loves mathematics.
The logical part of her brain explains away her Tyler hallucinations but I couldn't help but be a little freaked out myself because I could see everything so easily in my imagination.
They're so close and to have that happen to him and her not being able to relate..
New Year's Readathon 2.0 - Read a standaloneIf you're going to read this book, you better grab a box of tissues.
She was depressed, shuts out everyone around her, and there are times she feels and sees Ty's presence.
She starts seeing a therapist and encouraged her to write journal entries wherein she shared about Ty and all his moments.
Lexie's emotions and love for her brother felt so raw and real.
If she could turned back the time, could it change his fate?
I actually love her friends for their patience and understanding about Lexie.
I will read anything Cynthia Hand writes.
Enter to win an ARC of The Last Time We Say Goodbye! (US Only) Ends 2/19/2015. ‘Time passes. That’s the rule. No matter what happens, no matter how much it might feel like everything in your life has frozen around one particular moment, time marches on.’ Lexie is an unexceptionally smart student with big dreams of going to MIT. She has a boyfriend who loves her and a group of friends she can depend on. But that was life seven weeks ago. Now? Her grades are slipping, she’s broke up with her boyfr
The Last Time We Said Goodbye is more of a cautionary tale seeing as the story is told from the surviving sister and inevitably shows the repercussions of suicide and the effects of grief but manages to still leave the reader with a facet of hope to cling to.
While this is a work of fiction, the author states that she had a younger brother that killed himself which only made this all the more poignant and truly from the heart.The Last Time We Said Goodbye is a raw and brutally honest depiction of the various sides of grief.
Anyways, Lex's evolution as the story goes is amazing and gave me hope that there's always something better coming when you're having a hard time.
Her dreams, her personality and her reactions were easy to understand for me and, by the time I finished this book, I felt like I knew her pretty well.
I'm glad they were so kind to her and they kept trying to get her back, because that's the most amazing proof of loyalty I've ever seen and I can only hope that my friends would react that way if something made me push them away like Lex did.
