https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9300.Watermelon
I am quite random myself, skipping from subject to subject without segways, but Keyes takes it to another level.
I just felt like yelling "get to the point!".
Some of Claire's inner dialog was funny, but by page 30 I was skipping over large chunks to get to the actual moving plot line of the book.
A couldn't whole heartedly recommend this to anyone looking for a mindless chick book that is a quick read, cause it was too annoying to be mindless.
Marian Keyes came highly recommended too, but I don't think I'll bother with anything else by her.
:) Po povratku u Beograd, odmah sam krenula da čitam Lubenicu, totalno se zaljubila u Marijanino pisanje i nagovorila svog izdavača da odmah kupimo prava za pet Marijanin knjiga...
A onda su Marijana i Toni došli u Beograd da se Marijana druži sa svojim čitaocima...
Porodica Volš iz Marijaninih knjiga veoma podseća na na njenu...
Kasnije sam je "ponela" sa sobom kod drugog izdavača ali su uspeli da je izgube zbog nemara i loših korica...
Toni me je glede jednih korica bojažljivo priupitao: "A što su ove nove korice tako crne i mračne, jel' ova knjiga izdavača asocira na 11.
Like keep an eye on your kid because she's got his genes so look out for prolonged bed wetting and her killing the house pets in your future BECAUSE YOU MARRIED A STRAIGHT UP LUNATIC!The lead character was such a weak insecure woman that you couldn't even be satisfied with her triumphant 'I don't need you in my life' attitude in the end because it took about a thousand people telling her that her husband is a manipulative asshole to get her there.
A lovely read!
Marian Keyes is one of my favourite authors of all time.
She came back with a book with an author that had a similar name, and here we are today :)I have read Watermelon a long time ago, but I have decided to share my thoughts with you now.This is a chick lit book about a woman left on her own right after she gives birth to her first child and then goes back to her parent's house to start her life over.This is a story about bravely, love, family and all little things that will melt your heart.Prepare to cry - Actually, prepare to cry a lot, and don't say I haven't warned you.A story that will stick with you for years after you've read it.
And then Keyes continued to write him in such a way that he actually comes across a bit psycho, with moods changing on a dime (yes she loves to use idioms) and yet Claire still wants him in her daughter’s life.
Some of her inner ramblings were funny but I’ll be honest it got to the point where I was skimming just to get on with the actual story (this continued for the entire 600 page read.) I did enjoy the sections where it was written as though the author/heroine is talking directly to the reader.
Este es mi primer chick lit y he quedado bastante satisfecha.
Y es que tenía algo de prejuicio por el género y este libro me lo ha curado.
La virtud de la escritora de este libro, radica en hacerlo cercano con su personaje principal, Clare, uno puede sentirse identificada con varias actitudes, sentimientos e inseguridades.
Lo que más me gustó es como retrata estas situaciones cotidianas con una narrativa… con un humor cínico, muy bien puesto y empleado.
Este primer libro, mi primer libro de Marian Keyes, me ha dejado con ganas de volver a leer a esta autora.
What a Way to Start a Brand New Baby’s Life! Claire can’t believe that the very day that she gives birth to her first child is the same day that her husband decides to leave her. What Luck! Marian Keyes pulls out all the stops in the development of the story and the characters. Claire and her husband James have been married for a few years and are living in New York. She thought things were going just great, then out of nowhere James announces that he’s fallen for someone else and is leaving the
Claire can’t believe that the very day that she gives birth to her first child is the same day that her husband decides to leave her.
Claire and her husband James have been married for a few years and are living in New York.
Claire discovers a lot about herself, about her marriage and finds out the truth about her husband and comes to a crossroads and makes a decision about the way she’s going to live her life and raise her daughter.
This is my first Marian Keyes novel and I was instantly swept up in Claire’s personality and the humor that’s infused in her books.
I picked it up because it was recommended and looked like a quick read.
The premise of the book is that Claire's husband announces his affair and their separation on the day that Claire has their baby.
The plot is thin on the ground for this portion of the book, and we mostly hear about how dreadful she feels.
Finally, she is forced to choose between her marriage and the other man, but (gasp!) perhaps she can't really recover either relationship.
The denouement of the book begins with chapter 24.
Lo que se me ha hecho pesado en muchas ocasiones han sido los pensamientos de Claire, se alejaba tanto del tema en cuestión que me perdía y me costaba volver a coger el hilo, aunque a otra persona puede que no le pase y que simplemente no era el momento para leer este tipo de historia, pero con la sinopsis me parecía una lectura perfecta para el verano.
Me ha parecido muy peculiar la familia Walsh, así que posiblemente siga conociendo las historias de las otras hermanas, así como otros libros de Marian que me han recomendado.
Reading this book feels like a chat with a friend and I found that I got to know the main character very well.
As Claire goes on with her life and meets someone knew, her husband James pops back into her life and wants her back.
I gave this book four stars because some sections were kind of wordy and at some points (e.g. the baggage claim scene when Claire first arrives in Dublin) where it looks like the author is trying too hard to be funny.
But this is a fantastic book if you are looking for a light, funny read.
It is also the day my husband left me.
ABOUT THIS BOOK: Claire has everything she ever wanted: a husband she adores, a great apartment, a good job.
Then, on the day she gives birth to their first baby, James informs her that he's leaving her.
So much so, in fact, that when James slithers back into her life, he's in for a bit of a surprise.MY THOUGHTS: This was the first book by Marian Keyes that I ever read.
. .'I haven't always liked all of Keyes' books (Rachel's Holiday being one in particular), but Watermelon?
I don't think I've ever been so glad to finish a book.
Of course I wasn't expecting this to be a literary masterpiece but I thought being to some degree enjoyable wouldn't have been too much to ask.
The premise is probably standard for a chick-lit novel - a woman's husband tells her he's been having an affair for six months and is leaving her the day she gives birth to their first child.
This book may have been more tolerable if it had been shorter.
As in much shorter.
There's just no excuse for its chunky 600+ pages, I wouldn't recommend it.
Dos meses me ha durado y con eso ya lo digo casi todo.
A ratos me he sentido sobresaturada de tanto pensamiento de Claire, incluso tengo que reconocer que algunos párrafos me los he saltado, porque creo que son excesivos, y eso que sólo me lo he leído en los días de playa.
Pero por otro lado, las ideas y pensamientos de Claire son ingeniosas y divertidas y me he reído mucho.
A partir del momento conozco a Adam, creo que mejora todo el libro.
No sé si será suficiente para que me lea otro libro de esta autora ;)
I almost feel like there is just too much of her that I don't know.
But so far it just doesn't meet my Lucy Sullivan standards...This has gotten much better since I hit about 1/2 way.
I've also gotten to know Claire much better, and just read the funniest thing ever about which sexual position she favors.
NOW I can identify with her :) Actually, I'm finding that she's a bit of a vanilla person, but is perfectly happy being a vanilla person.
Much like having a friend drone on and on, talking non-stop about their drama.
A Christmas present from Megan...I was really excited to read this because it is the story of the oldest Walsh sister.
Something I love about Keyes' writing - although her books are most definitely of the chick-lit genre, the story lines involve aspects of the darker side of life.
I was not disappointed, and will be picking up more Marian Keyes - once I get through my long list of to-reads!
I'm sad that I only have one sister left to read about.
Although, fingers crossed that the youngest sister's book is still yet to come!
If I skim passages too often, I get irritated, because that means I paid for pages I'm not reading.
I know that this type of amusing tangent is one of the hallmarks of chicklit, and it CAN be quite chuckle-worthy, but, in this case, it was too too much.Also, there was a bit too much introspection by the heroine.
Now I KNOW that introspection is also a main component of chicklit.
Once again, I began to skim more than I would've liked.Lastly, I found the ending a bit too pat.
I would've liked for the husband not to be SUCH a pathetic character.
Well, I'm beginning to suspect that with the rare exception (so far, Bridget Jones' Diary) this isn't the kind of book for me.
So many of them strike the same tone--overly chirpy obsessed with dress size and the mating game but without the satiric edge of Bridget Jones' Diary or it's ability to make me laugh-out-loud.
The book is centered on Claire Walsh--her husband left her on the same day as their child was born, and she returns to her family in Dublin with the babe in arms.
Claire's voice unfortunately grated on me--repetitive, one-note, whiny.
But Claire goes on and on about how fat she is and without the irony of a Bridget Jones.
Yay, memory loss!Anyway, I love Marian Keyes's books.
I love that they're so fun and lively, as well as thoughtful and honest about the struggles the heroine overcomes.
Watermelon is the first in the Walsh Family series, a series I recommend to fans of Irish Chick Lit. Is that a category?
Watermelon was an engaging, laugh-out-loud funny read.
I mean, what kind of man leaves his wife immediately after she gives birth?!
And while Claire struggles, she does overcome, and it's a triumph.
It also doesn't hurt that she had the sexy, smart, and kind Adam along the way.
I have to say again, I highly recommend Marian Keyes.
I guess because I'm actually going through such a similar situation as the character's (minus the baby) and so it touched the heart very closely.
I love Claire's humor and how this book made me feel like I wasn't the only person out there going through a rollercoaster from murderous anger to guilt to all the other millions of emotions out there.
It's all perceived as normal.Simiilar situations happen everyday and it's nice to know that it can be put into words in someone else's life and make you feel normal.
What a dream guy!!Definitely a picker-upper and made me feel whole lots better.
Je moet er even inkomen, maar als je er eenmaal in zit kun je niet meer stoppen.
Het verhaal is romantisch, maar niet een echt perfect zwijmel verhaal.
Het lijkt net alsof Claire dit boek speciaal en alleen voor mij heeft geschreven.
Als een over-sized brief, zeg maar.
De enige reden dat dit boek 4 sterren krijgt en niet 5 is dat het af en toe een beetje afwijkt van het verhaal.
Hele lappen tekst over de tuinman en weet ik veel wat, terwijl dit weinig toevoeging heeft op het verhaal.
Hierdoor is het boek hier en daar een beetje lang.
Someone left this book in the lobby of my apartment building so I picked it up to read. I understand why it was abandoned. I don't understand Marian Keyes' popularity. The main character was vapid, the secondary characters one dimensional, the plot improbable and the writing mediocre. Often I would throw it across the room in frustration.Don't bother. I think I will take it back down to the lobby and leave it where I found it.
I'll admit I skim-read the second half, but still had fun (as always with Marian Keyes!)
No sé ni por dónde empezar.
Siempre quise leer a esta autora, con tantas críticas favorables, pero la fui dejando para después.
Y ahora que por fin me sentí tentada, ha sido una completa decepción.
La protagonista es completamente inmadura y tonta, sus divagaciones me sacaron de quicio, estar siempre dentro de su cabeza y conocer todos sus pensamientos fue interesante al principio, pero un completo martirio conforme fue transcurriendo la historia.
La verdad es que no sé si le daré la oportunidad a un segundo libro suyo.
DNF.I don't usually give up on books.In fact, I can't recall when I last gave up on one.
God knows I tried.But I couldn't.I hated the style.(This review is an attempt at approximation of the style.)It made my eyes bleed.It made my brain hurt.But I perservered.
I don't need to like characters in a book I'm reading, but I would like to at least feel interested in someone.Maybe the plot, then.
The narrator-protagonist was dumped by her husband on the day their daughter was born and she went to her family in Ireland to mope around.
In this book, Claire is a woman who has everything she ever wanted: a husband she adores, a life with interesting friends in London, a great job, and a fabulous apartment.
However, on the day she gives birth to her first baby, a daughter, her husband James informs her that he is leaving her.
Shocked and depressed, Claire slinks back home to Ireland to a family who cannot figure out what Claire "has done wrong to make her husband leave her." She slides into her bed and into depression.
But eventually, she has to regroup and start living again and create a home for her daughter.
This reminded me a lot of Sophie Kinsella. It made me laugh, it made me tear up a little and it was so angsty it made me want to barf sometimes. I really enjoyed this. I can't wait to read the others.
DNF @ 31%I don't think this book is terrible, but I got to 31% and not much had happened yet. I was not hooked by the story or by the main character's personality and was pretty bored. Maybe it was a "it's me, not you" kind of thing and I was just not in the mood for this kind of story, but when reading a fiction book starts feeling like a chore, it's time to stop.A bit of a disappointment given how much I enjoyed "Rachel's Holiday". Marian's writing just didn't do it for me here.
Keyes writes this relationship in a clever way, making James out to be an awful man, although still having Claire love her husband, as people indeed do despite what their partners do to them.
In fact, the family were such a hit with readers that Keyes has gone on to base a further 3 books about the sisters which I am excited about reading!This book is a really heart-warming tale despite what sounds like a bit of a depressing storyline.
It develops in a plausible way, with Claire's character growing throughout the book fantastically, allowing you to feel for her struggles and applauding her strength.
It felt like she had no confidence in you as the reader to get what you were supposed to out of a dialogue or scenario, so she had to explain everything to you.That said, there were quite a few laugh out loud parts that redeemed the book for me and made me want to give Keyes another chance.
I read it out loud to my husband because I know that, along with me, he would relate to it all too well and we both found it very amusing.I don't know if I'd recommend this book to anyone who hasn't already read Keyes and decided they like her.
