https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22319275-yellow-crocus
During the last 30 minutes of listening to this book, I was so full of emotion.
Once again, this time in Yellow Crocus, the author provides a story that showed me yet another heartache that a female slave on a southern plantation in 1837 was made to bear and my education continues.I can't begin to explain how heartbreaking this story was for probably more than half of this book.
Mattie is a slave woman for Lisbeth's family and is called in to be a wet nurse to young Elizabeth (Lisbeth).
Forced to leave her own son just a few months old, Mattie is moved into the house and raises the young girl, almost as her own, for several years...The first half of the book we gets the first several years from Mattie, but as the years wear on, it starts to shift to Lisbeth's.
All seems as ideal as it can be for a slave family for the first several yours but as Mattie's son grows older, problems arise.We switch to Lisbeth as she begins o be taught about society, and her place in it.
I want to wrap my arms and legs around this book and hang onto it forever.
With a depth and subtlety I'm sure I didn't even fully grasp during this first read, Yellow Crocus captured my attention and my emotions on every single page.
Beautiful, warm, hopeful, and inspiring, this story unfolded so seamlessly I felt like I was living it.
To finish the last page left me renewed and deeply satisfied.
This is the kind of book that makes me glad to be a reader and studier of the richness of life as it is told in stories.
This book is a must-read for any list.
Yellow Crocus received such overwhelmingly good reviews on Goodreads, and I like historical fiction, especially tales set in early America.
So I was really looking forward to reading this book.
The dialogue was inconsistent and sometimes pointless:"...Next year I would like to have crocus blooming in our yard.""That would be lovely," Matthew replied, smiling at his wife."Though the bulbs are quite expensive...""It is a luxury we can afford," he assured her."Thank you, Matthew," Lisbeth smiled back.
A really talented editor might have been able to salvage this book, refining the marginal writing and helping Yellow Crocus to become all it had the potential to be.
See here's the thing, I know that The Help had flaws, but I enjoyed the story and the characters and the atmosphere and the feel of the story so much that I was able to just lose myself in the book and ignore them.
You see, as much as I like being happy from the "I'm loving this book and I'm lost in the story and nothing else matters" feels...
It was MATTIE!Look, I get that people want happy endings to slavery stories.
What could have been a beautiful story but turned into just a show of sugary affection because the author didn’t capture the relationship between master and the servant and the effect of slavery on it.
Yellow Crocus explores the relationship of Elizabeth, the white master, and Mattie, the black servant.
As the child grew up, the bond between these two also got stronger.
The child could not survive there and escapes, never to be found again.
Moreover, the story didn’t do justice to the slavery in 1800s.
And perhaps that’s what author wanted to show in this story but it didn’t go well for me.
I found the novel Yellow Crocus a very enjoyable book, no tricks or fireworks just a good story with a few historical facts to keep me interested.
I sensed the author is passionate about her subject and she gets to the point and no waffling.This book follows the relationship between an enslaved black women and a little white girl she is forced to care for.
This is a book that I had never heard of, but really deserves more recognition.
Set on the Tidewater plantation in Virginia, before the Civil War, it follows Mattie who is a slave and wet nurse and Elizabeth, the newborn daughter of the plantation.
Wonderfully written, with many poignant moments, this novel is a brilliant read of time and place.
I am so glad I was not born in that time, a time when women were told want to think, talk about, existed only to please a man and make an advantageous marriage.
So glad Elizabeth didn't follow thus path.
This is the wonderful, heart-wrenching, but also heart-warming story of the relationship between a young white girl and her slave nanny.Beautifully written and simply told. I finished it in one sitting.
This was a very well written book - definitely grabs you and weaves a haunting story of life on the plantation.
I highly recommend this if you enjoyed other popular stories about this era, and books that focus on relationships between slaves and their owners!
It is just a reflection of my feelings and emotions about the book.
It starts out building the relationship between Elizabeth, a newborn and Mattie - her wet nurse.
For me it was a bit awkward since the first 20% is basically Mattie's care for Elizabeth through breast feeding.
I definitely feel like the minority in this though!!!
I've had this book in my list of samples for nearly a year.
I remembered I read the first chapter about a young, slave who was required to leave her own baby to nurse the newborn girl of the Mistress in the big house.
The relationship between Mattie & Lisbeth is so full of love, I couldn't help but adore them.
I read this in just 2 days, which is fast for me.
I didn't want it to end, I absolutely loved it so!!
If you liked The Help The Kitchen House, Redfield Farm, or Mudbound, you will certainly want to read this spectacular book.
This book had the bones of an excellent story, but the way the personalities were expressed, the language of the people, the mood of the setting- all together it just didn't mesh for me.
And the other characters beyond the two main protagonists and their husbands, characters like Mrs. Ann or the doctor, or Elizabeth's grandmother- were basically cut out stereotypes.
The intrinsic conflict Mattie would have had was far deeper and more unsurmountable than this book shows.
I know others enjoyed it far more and the characters seemed to work as real for them.
Not for me, because fear of reprisals weren't part of parcel of this story, nor of Mattie's self-identity.
Any book that is about slavery and leaves you with a feel good ending, has somewhere missed the point for me.
Yep. I read it in just a few hours, quickly turning the pages and really wanting to find out what was going to happen to the two main characters.
We stopped reading about Mattie (the black slave character) and were left solely to continue with Elizabeth's story (the young white daughter of a slave owner).
I still liked the book, it was a good, quick read, but if I give the story further analysis I start to find it problematic.
3.5 stars.Why is the crocus purple when the book is called "Yellow" Crocus? The book was good, but everything was all nice and neat. This period was anything but sweet. I did like it though.
I discovered this book as part of a free download promo on Amazon and the synopsis grabbed me.
There are paperback copies available on Amazon, but the easiest way to read is via kindle download.
Right now it is $3.99 or free for Amazon Prime members.This book is beautifully written...just lovely!
As a mother myself that ripped my heart out.This book illustrates the power of attachment and how we form our identity not by those who gave birth to us, but by those we are raised by.
This is a touching and telling story of a young mistress and her wet nurse/nanny who was much more of a mother figure than her true mother. It focuses on the vast divide separating these two in the midst of the love and years they shared. It is a story of the slave quarters and the big house, the proper behavior required between slaves and owners and the expectations for those who lived on both sides of the divide as well as just what was likely to happen when those expectations were not met in the antebellum South.
Yellow Crocus is an emotional and thought provoking character led historical fiction. I really enjoyed listening to this as an audiobook, and really felt for the characters.I bought this on Kindle quite some time ago, but recently decided to borrow it through Amazon Kindle Unlimited after discovering it was available as an audiobook.
Major spoilers follow!There is a particularly fascinating series of events in which Mattie (a slave) takes her child and runs away from the plantation.
And now they were together.” This happened often, a tendency to state the obvious, and in a mundane way.In the second half of the book, Lisabeth (the daughter of Mattie's owners) and Mattie’s stories diverge but only Lisabeth’s story is told.
Unlike everything I've read where it's impossible to empathize with slave owners, Lisabeth's internal conflict was critical to the story and I felt for the child.
I absolutely loved this book. I'm so glad that I took the time to read it. I loved that the characters were all flawed enough to seem real and you really didn't know if things would turn out all right at any given moment. I actually worried about the characters as I was reading. I will definitely read more by this author. Thank you to Netgalley for providing me a copy to review.
A wonderful, very emotional story about the strong lifelong bond that forms between Lisbeth, the white daughter of a southern state plantation owner and Mattie her wet nurse, from the moment of the first feed to adulthood.
You really do feel for Mattie at some key moments in the story and share in her frustration that there is nothing she can do to change things that happen as she is totally powerless, being someone elses property and not a free woman.
Lisbeth was a joy to read about, she grows up into a strong charactered beautiful woman, who most certainly knows the difference between right and wrong.
Yes, I mean 6 for the book and the audio narration.
(The first time I read it was in 2011 and I rated it 5 stars then.) This is the story of a black slave woman, unceremoniously snatched from her own infant,to reside in the plantation house in the capacity of wet nurse to the mistress's newborn.
This move precipitated numerous unforeseen emotions and relationships involving the wet nurse and the white child, this child and her biological mother, the black child with his mother, and the white's child view of her world as she became an adult.
The audio narration is by Bahni Turpin.
Her presentation was outstanding.Yes, I certainly will read it again and again!
I LOVED this book....EVERY word of it.
I liked it even more than The Help, which is a fair comparison to some extent.This book was set in the 1800's and was about a little girl, Elizabeth (or Lisbeth) and her wet nurse, Mattie, who became very attached to each other over the years.
Over the years Lisbeth longed to know if Mattie was ok, to know if she made it to Ohio safely but 10 yrs would pass without a word.I don't want to give too much away in my review but I didn't want this book to end.
What a wonderful, heartwarming story set in pre-Civil War in the south.
I loved the characters.
They were well drawn with great detail and so was the setting.
The author captured this with vivid and warm descriptions.
This story was a little glossy considering the time frame it covers.
There were many horrors that existed back then, but I appreciated that this wasn't a 'shock and awe' campaign.
Sometimes I'm just not in the mood for that.
This story was centered on the characters and not so much on the grit and horror of the day.
I was not expecting to like Yellow Crocus as much as I did. I loved Mattie and Lisbeth. I thought the book did a good job of portraying the time period, the emotions of the characters, and the truths about slavery without going into graphic detail of the horrors. There were a few places where I wish the story had elaborated before moving on, but the emotions the book brings out made this a near 5 star read for me.
This book was strange. The first 20% of it was breastfeeding scenes. Not an exaggeration. Finding out the author is a doula was not particularly surprising. The book also suffers from White Savior Syndrome. The narrative is solid, but lacks depth. Overall, a half-decent quick read for fans of historical fiction.
3.5 stars. I really enjoyed this book, the story of Mattie, a field slave and how she became wet nurse and mammy to the first child of plantation owners. What follows is a tender exploration of their relationship and regard for each other; how knowing and loving Mattie shaped Lizbeths character and her life to come. Set in the time of the Underground movement, when abolitionists in the North helped slaves escape to freedom, the story does deal with some of the horrors of slavery. The ending feels right. A good read. Recommended.
Book on CD performed by Bahni Turpin.3.5*** From the book jacket: Moments after Lisbeth is born, she’s taken from her mother and handed over to an enslaved wet nurse, Mattie, a young mother separated from her own infant son in order to care for her tiny charge.
Mattie is a young woman when she’s taken “into the big house” to become Lisbeth’s wet nurse.
It’s heartbreaking to witness her all-too-brief Sunday visits with her young son, who has begun to bond with another slave who is caring for him.
This story about the slave-owning society in the ante-bellum American South makes for a pleasant enough read, as it’s well-written and tells a gentle tale of love and loyalty.
But what it doesn’t do is represent the true horror of slavery and simply glosses over the worst aspects of it.
It’s all rather predictable and superficial and doesn’t tackle the real issues.
So although I rattled along quite happily for most of the book, it failed to truly represent the evils of slavery and thus didn’t really engage me.
Una novela repleta de sentimentos, contada de una forma mágica. El amor por las personas sean de la condición que sean se transforma en un canto a la libertad que me ha puesto la carne de gallina por la emoción. Además de la historia que te enseña.Mattie y Lisbeth son dos personajes increíbles.Muy bueno.4.5
