https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127047.Diary_of_a_Madman_and_Other_Stories
I listened to the title story, rather than read the book (which might have made a difference). The madness of the protagonist was delineated very quickly and like ripples from a stone dropped into a pool, it rapidly and obsessively spread out with more and more detail. But the stone that sunk to the depths? The original causation factor? That was missing which left the book frustratingly without depth. Perhaps this is what madness looks like, it certainly isn't madness explained.
This is a collection of 26 short stories by Lu Xun. The most well-known is the story that gives the collection its name, "Diary of a Madman", where Lu Xun uses the madman's paranoiac fear of cannibalism as a metaphor for the way Chinese society ate up its people.
The crushing weight of traditional Chinese culture ("The Eternal Lamp", "Diary of a Madman"), the stultifying demands of the Imperial Examination system forcing students to memorise dead classics ("The White Light", "Kong Yiji"), the place of women in society ("The New Year Sacrifice", "Mourning the Dead"), and the constant struggle to make a living ("Ah Q: The Real Story", "Dragonboat Festival", "The Venerable Schoolmaster Gao"): these are the targets of Lu Xun's pen.
Tells a story about a revolutionary killed and eaten; that actually happened, so.
The ironic thing is that it was during the Cultural Revolution, forty years after this story called for a cultural revolution.
Lu was writing in 1918, and his madman finds the command - EAT PEOPLE - in Confucius.
It was among the first to use the Chinese vernacular, instead of the stilted classical, and it's about the weight of tradition crushing the people; Lu was a revolutionary, and he became a hero of the Communist movement.
Very short story. Man studies Confucian classics, thinks people are going to eat him. There's a bit of a political metaphor.救救孩子! (Save the children!)
Tralasciando le ragioni per cui mi sono imbattuta in questa lista e nel fantomatico gruppo in questione, visto che nei miei incubi ricorrenti oltre al cadere da una rupe, c'è l 'uomo del Club degli Editori che mi fa firmare un contratto e io non riesco a fermare la mia mano, devo dire che non lo avrei mai inserito in una lista con solo cento titoli, ma è pur vero che ho scoperto un nuovo autore, considerato un grande esponente della letteratura cinese del XX secolo: Lu Xun. Quando i nomi cinesi sono così semplici da scrivere e da ricordare ci vorresti tenere su un corso.La storia prende spunto dal ritrovamento di un diario, scritto da un amico della voce narrante.
The first work I've read of Lu Xun, who became my favorite contemporary Chinese author when I learnt to appreciate his irony and incisiveness.
A short, rather scathing and often chilling commentary on the depersonalizing effects of mindless societal adherence.This book is not preachy--its almost a stream of consciousness style. As the title suggests, it's recorded in a journal style.Very elegantly plotted, with the ending known at the beginning--it's a testament to the quality of the writing that knowing the end results actually makes the plot progression more suspenseful and the resolution more chilling.
The story was praised for its anti-traditionalism, its synthesis of Chinese and foreign conventions and ideas, and its skillful narration, and Lu became recognized as one of the leading writers of the New Culture Movement.
The story, “The Diary of a Madman” is available online at https://www.marxists.org/archive/lu-x...
Whether you read it straightforwardly as the diary of the man suffering from a persecution complex, or as a more politically charged narrative, it certainly holds yours attention as the narrator's madness spirals onward.
13 short sections constitute the diary read by the narrator of the preface.
2015 {YES I AM BEHIND...stuff it} PopSugar Challenge with my fellow crustaceans Karly, Jess, Heather, and NeniaA book of short stories - Diary of a Madman and Other Stories - Xun, LuDNF at 21%I've tried with this one, I really have, but it is just sooo boring and bizarre that I never have the desire to pick it up without reluctance.
I'm sure it's a cultural or generational thing, but the proverbs go over my head or fall flat of being profound.
All in all, I rather spend what little reading time I have anymore on something I actually enjoy reading.
Obviously intended as political allegory, it concerns the written record of a young man who, in the throes of madness, extrapolates the tyranny of old, rural values into a paranoid belief that the world is secretly filled with cannibals (noting, in the text, actual historic moments of real cannibalism in Chinese history), including his own brother.
"Save the children..." indeed.Nicely done - I liked the resonances with Gogol's similarly titled tale and I especially liked the bit where the young man, looking through his history books, begins to realize that written between the lines of all books is the secret message "Eat People"!
The Diary of a Madman is one of my favorite stories. Lu Xun was one of the first Chinese authors to write in bai hua (colloquial speech) and he is an expert writer and observer of dialogue.
excellent writing! his stories are amazing, and if you must know, not about the cultural revolution (that's for you jon).
I keep rereading it! A very short story. Amazing and EXTREMELY thought provoking!
Tiene mucha más fuerza que el original de Gogol.
Lu Xun nos presenta un relato cortisimo que se lee en menos de 1h en el que podemos ver como es la manía persecutoria del protagonista en primera persona. Sinceramente no tengo mucho que decir al ser un relato tan corto, me lo mandaron a leer el clase y pensaba que iba a ser más aburrido, pero para mi sorpresa me despertó mucha curiosidad.Si como he dicho antes, os interesa una lectura rápida desde el punto de vista de un loco, este es vuestro libro
That was intense. Similar to Gogol's, obviously, but the motive is different (Persecution Complex).
At first there is no path, but then there are people passing that way and there is a path.Lu Xun Lu Xun (1881 - 1936) pseudoniem van Zhou Shuren, was een van de beroemdste Han-Chinese schrijvers van de twintigste eeuw, en ook een van de eerste schrijvers die schreef in een taal die dicht bij de Chinese spreektaal stond, in plaats van in het klassiek Chinees.
Behalve dat Lu Xun hier een brug slaat tussen de klassieke en de moderne Chinese literatuur, sluit zijn werk, zonder zijn Chinese afkomst te verloochenen, ook aan bij de internationale literatuur van die tijd.
Pero no es el caso de Zhou Shuren (mejor conocido en el bajo mundo de las letras por sus pseudónimos Lu Xun o Lu Hsün), una figura poco conocida en nuestro país pero extremadamente célebre en el Lejano Oriente –es el escritor con más estatuas en el planeta–, y a quien, gracias a la traducción de Sergio Pitol, podemos disfrutar ahora editado en nuestras tierras, con el libro “Diario de un loco”.La publicación se compone de tres cuentos: el que da título al libro (considerado un “ejemplo supremo” de la forma “alegórica nacional” que toda la literatura tercermundista toma, según Fredric Jameson, y que, al decir de Christopher Domínguez, “conserva la belleza aterradora de los cuentos románticos”), “La verdadera historia de Ah Q” (“un arquetipo negativo, un Oblómov chino que fue registrado como la encarnación de la sociedad feudal”, continúa Domínguez Michael) y “La lámpara eterna”, otra brillante joya.Autor de múltiples ensayos, cuentos y traducciones, Lu Hsün (septiembre de 1881-octubre de 1936) logra, con este breve libro, ver inmortalizarse su nombre en el Partenón de los grandes escritores.
19 en China, configura un enigma para el lector, de los mas originales y desconcertantes que he leído.
No puedo dejar de saborear la idea de una conspiración que lo acusa de loco y finalmente lo desaparece, para encubrir la terrible verdad tras los devoradores de hombres.
En esto radica la genialidad de este relato, que nos deja girando, pensando y tratando de concluir algo, que por la tangente que lo hayamos hecho, es igualmente desolador.
Una gran descubrimiento el de este autor, me haré con mas de sus obras.
Sepuluh cerpen dalam Catatan Harian Seorang Gila (Penerjemah Nur Rachmi dan Rasti Suryandari, Yayasan Obor Indonesia, Jakarta, 1989) yang ditulis pengarang yang bernama asli Zhou Shuyen ini menunjukkan kemampuannya dalam meramu keindahan alam Cina dan kondisi masyarakat menjadi suatu kisah yang utuh dan kuat.
Meski begitu, dalam membaca cerpen-cerpen ini, kesungguhan agaknya menjadi hal yang penting.
Pembaca membutuhkan konsentrasi penuh untuk dapat memahami alur dan konflik yang diungkapkan, karena cerpen-cerpen Lu Xun cenderung bertempo lambat, kalimat-kalimatnya panjang dan “melelahkan”.Cerpen-cerpen ini seperti terjadi dalam suatu dunia yang indah tetapi suram dan hening.
Kesan yang tertangkap setelah membaca habis buku ini adalah suasana yang sedih.
Bacaan bagus menjelang imlek tahun ini.
HeheSaat membaca cerpen2 awal di buku ini, saya masih butuh penyesuaian karena jarang baca karya sastra cina, dan dari sebelum pertengahan isi buku, cerpen2nya mulai mudah dapat penggambaran bagi nalar saya.
Kebanyakan isinya mengandung protes sosial yang terjadi di masyarakat pada tahun itu, sebelum tahun 1930.
Dan tentu bagi saya yang awam dengan pergolakan di cina kala itu, ini menjadi hal yang sulit saya terka, namun dengan kejelian penulis dan suasana cerita yang tidak dibangun tiba2, menjadikan kebanyakan cerpennya mengasyikkan.Ada satu cerita berjudul Menyesali Masa Lalu yang amat saya suka..
Mixing Chinese daily life with ghosts and death seems like a winning formula, but something lacked energy in these tales. I wouldn't question Lu's value in the evolution of Chinese literature or his worth in portraying Chinese society, but nothing really brought this collection to greatness for me. The story "Home" was the exception, and several other times he flirts with something brilliant, but otherwise I was not moved or emotionally engaged. The later works struck me as far more mature than the earlier stories, but the push I hoped for never arrived.
Buku ini tidak diterjemahkan dengan baik. Banyak kesalahan penulisan dan itu menyebalkan.
Only read a couple of stories; they’re all very .... weird and interestind and .... weird
If you're looking for short, well-written stories with a strong political message, look no further. These as super interesting to read, but will be SUPER enjoyable if you take time to read up on the historical and political context of Lu Xun's work. I'm a fan.
I do not think I will return to his stories and I may miss a lot, but there it is.Diary of a MadmanThis is a new kind of literature that I am trying, on advice from the Guardian list of 100 best books ever.
He imagines that his sister was killed and her flesh made its way into the food served and unknowingly he has eaten the flesh of his sisterKung-I-ChiThis story takes place in an old tavern where the story teller is hired as a kind of waiter.
There is a belief, in the parts where the story takes place, that human blood would heal consumption.
Lu Hsun, Çin Edebiyatı'nın en önemli isimlerinden biri olarak gösteriliyor.
Aylak Adam Yayınları öykü derlemesi olan bu kitabı Türkçe'ye kazandırınca hemen okumak istedim.Zor kültür Çin.
Özellikle dil ile olan, yüzlerce yıl süren kavgaları; anlaşılmalarını sadece yabancılara değil kendilerine de zorlaştırıyor.
İlk çağdaş dönemin tüm sorunları ile muhatap olmuş bir yazar olan Lu Hsun önemli saptamalar yapıyor.
Zira yazarların yazdıklarında çok fazla özgür bırakıldığı bir ülke değil Çin.
Lu Hsun'un bu öykülerinde de yer yer kendini açıkça hissettiriyor bu durum.
Ama içerisinde oldukça farklı bir yere konulabilecek öykülerde var.Değişik bir okuma tecrübesi.
Çin'e bir bakış atmak ve tanışmak için ideal.İyi okumalar.10/7
The first, Cheering from the Sidelines, composed of stories written between 1918 and 1922, contrasts sharply with the Wondering Where to Turn, written between 1924 and 1925.
The first collection features an almost simplistic, direct style of writing belying layered narratives, and thick with sarcastic wit.
The second collection shows a far more eloquent and poetic style that, contrasts with stories that are more directly to the point, and, in many cases, more informed by personal experience.
Cheering from the sidelines> leaves one wondering whether to laugh or cry.
Sometimes when I read a book, I feel like the time and place were just too different from the present for me to really appreciate the literature, and this is one of those books.
That difference in context to today, and the difficulty of translating from a non-alphabetic language into English, meant to me that I didn't have much of an appreciation for these stories.
For instance, the lengthy Introduction walks through the satirical nature of some of the material, although you would have to be a scholar of early-20th century China to appreciate it, and to understand what it was satirizing - such as Chinese social customs and overall backwardness.
"El libro de relatos Diario de un loco de Lu Hsun, no me pareció una lectura sencilla.
Los relatos en sí no me parecen grandes obras de la literatura universal, de los tres cuentos que se publican el que más estimo es "La verdadera historia de Ah Q".
Este cuento, narra las andanzas de un hombre humilde, solo, borrachín, analfabeto, desaseado, incomprendido por una sociedad (de la que vive al margen) que le propina humillaciones constantes.
Es una víctima más del "pasado inerte y un futuro incierto", como apunta Sergio Pitol en el prólogo.(sigue) http://apostillasnotas.blogspot.mx/20...
