https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30333938-slammed
This review was posted at  My Secret RomanceI am going to SLAM my review.
Not really sure if I SLAMMED it correctly, to be honest.
Brb crying from love and heartbreak because of this book
Can the author possibly add a few more words in italics because I don't think we got enough.
Dhak dhak dhak....do you hear that?That's the sound of my heart beating as I finish the book...Dhak dhak dhak.....do you hear that?That's the sound of my heart chanting "I wish this would never end".Shush shush shush....do you hear that?That's the sound of my lips trying to form words enough to express what I feel....Right now I'm thinking  I so wish this story was real... Will made me fall in love with himLake and Julia made me cryKel and Caulder were adorableEddie was like the fourth of july [
"Can I have a 'Pre-Proposal' too?" [Eddie would probably have scratched my eyes out for this or perhaps just laughed at the ridiculousness of it - I'm hoping for the latter ;) ] It's hard to put my feelings into wordsBut I guess a person run over by a freight train of emotions can't be expected to say everything at onceWords are trying to spew forth out of me in short burstsSo let me tell you a story of a boy and a girlThey meet in a U-haul, they fall in loveThey go on a date playing "would you rather" along the wayHe takes her to a 
I loved that Will and Lake were wonderfully refreshing hero and heroine characters because they were realistic, smart, not annoying in any way and didn't make stupid decisions.
I loved the author's writing style - its very simple but very powerful and its one of those books that really makes you  feel  what is going on with the characters.
I was completely and utterly shocked to find that I loved the Slam poetry.
I loved the intensity of Will and Lake's feelings for each other.
Loved it!!!This book is about love and loss and life and death (not the death of the hero/heroine though, fear not lol).
Awesome. Must read! I devoured this book. The story sucks you in and doesn't let you go. Adore Colleen Hoover and must read more of her.
Not even for a YA romance.SLAMMED was angsty teenage love story with a heart wrenching sub-plot, but the heroine made it a very disappointing read.
Personally, I thought the author did a great job of developing a typical 18 y/o girl, but it only emphasized her lack of maturity as a lead heroine.This would have worked for me in a more adult setting, but the the teenage angst was over done.
Then other times shes a silly giggly high schooler.
SLAMMED is a teenage girl fantasy romance story, so it doesn't surprise me at how popular it is.
Well damn.
I decided to return to the NA experiment with Slammed because I'd heard it was less offensive than Hoover's later novel - Hopeless - and also because I've had luck with a NA student/teacher romance in the past (Unteachable).
Where Hopeless offered entertainment and sexual tension that made it obvious where its popularity came from, I am honestly confused by all the positive reactions to Slammed.I do think if I'd read this book first I might have at least appreciated the improvement in quality of the author's writing by the time she wrote Hopeless.
2 stars.**Review posted August 11, 2013First of all I must say that I LIKED the slamming (I don't mean the doors, I'm talking about the poetry).
Before Slammed I've read God-Shaped Hole and I "only" rated it with four stars.
Compared to Slammed, God-Shaped Hole deserves five stars--especially the second half of the book.
Besides, some of the really awesome books that I've read deserve probably seven, eight, nine or ten stars--always compared to Slammed.
Crying here and crying there…*rolls eyes*Will openly flirting with Lake and actually hitting on her right off the bat kind of surprised me, and I felt it was too quick.
Many authors-huge, famous authors-write characters that make me roll my eyes...scrunch up my nose...close the book and not miss them-EVER.
Maybe I WILLI want himYou know what else I want?
A book that surely rises above all of its competition and SLAMS them in the face.
I would urge Colleen Hoover to keep writing stories and creating characters for those of us who are death to sick of boring, insipid characters (see I'm so clever).Or maybe Colleen is the clever one, because this book has set itself so far apart authors will be trying to catch it for years.
I can’t believe I’m only allowed to give this book five stars.
I mean, gut-wrenching, sobbing, tears streaming down my face affected me…and I’m not a crier.
If you’ve ever lost someone, loved someone, needed someone or wanted someone, this book will affect you, too.
I read this on my ereader, but I’m getting it in paperback too.
I need to pass it around to my friends.
I need to dog-ear the pages.
I need to highlight words and phrases.
I need to share it with my children.
This may be my favorite read this year!
I can’t recommend it enough!
Idk why I keep reading Colleen Hoover when I know I won't like her. Actually, I do know why. I read this book in like 12 hours because it's so addicting. Even though it was so lame and cliché and the characters are infuriating and this plot was such a mess and I don't like her books.UGH maybe someday (haha) i'll read an actually good colleen hoover book.this one didn't even have sex in it what was the point
Note: "Schooled" is originally written by Layken Cohen, the main female character in this book."Schooled"I got schooled this yearBy fictional charactersBy a beautiful storyBy a bookI got schooled this yearBy Layken, Will, Julia, Kel, and EddieThey taught me to accept death and lifeThat it'll get in our way and we have to be readyThey taught me to laugh, love, hope, and cryThat someday, the hardships and heartaches will all come in handyI got schooled this yearBy a story of romance with a great depth to itIt taught me to use both my head and my heartTo balance and treat the two of them as a unitIt taught me to be open-minded and smartTo ask myself a few questions before I commitI got schooled this year..By 
How many times did someone tell us to treasure our mother, or parents in general, while they're still alive?
5 stars  Don’t take life too seriously.
Punch it in the face when it needs a good hit.
Slammed is one of those books that is completely unforgettable for me.
It was one of my first Indie books I read years ago and for some reason this week, I got the itch to re-read it.
Sometimes when I read a book for the second time, I feel different about it.
I like it more than the first time, or I realize it wasn’t as good as I thought it was… with Slammed, it was exactly as I remember it.
Don’t take life too seriously.
Slammed is one of those books that is completely unforgettable for me.
Sometimes when I read a book for the second time, I feel different about it.
I like it more than the first time, or I realize it wasn’t as good as I thought it was… with Slammed, it was exactly as I remember it.
This is what life is about.
It’s a book that makes me remember why I love to read so much.
Slammed will always hold a special place in my heart, it was my first CoHo book after all ;) 
Don't take life too seriously. Punch it in the face when it needs a good hit. Laugh at it.  Inspiring! I am genuinely floored by the brilliance of this book! I adored every single one of these amazing characters and the way they were so realistically portrayed. The unique plot, the bitter-sweet tension, and the tender romance all had me mesmerized...but I won't further digress on these elements, as I'm sure they will clearly speak for themselves...What I do want to shine a light upon is the bre
The unique plot, the bitter-sweet tension, and the tender romance all had me mesmerized...but I won't further digress on these elements, as I'm sure they will clearly speak for themselves...What I do want to shine a light upon is the breathtaking wisdom that abundantly graced these pages and made its way to not only my heart, but deep within--resonating with my soul.
(And I'm not only referring to the ingenious Avett Brothers quotes!)This book was more than a love story.
It took every wonderful element I long for in a story and set it into motion through what felt like a song.
Angsty and complicated.▪	 Characters: Lovable, quirky, and relatable.▪	 Plot: Emotional love story--also showcases the bonds of family and friends.
I went into Slammed ONLY knowing that this book involved slam poetry.
I had never even read the synopsis too this story (after reading Ugly Love I knew that when it comes to Hoover books you have to go into it blind).
That's John Green, Jennifer Armentrout, and Colleen Hoover.Slammed follows the story of new Michigan transplant Lake as she is forced to start a new life her senior year of high school.
The charming, handsome, and sweet poet.The characters in this book feel so real!
This book is a must read, and definitely made it's way into my all time favorites.
There Comes a Time There comes a time in life when you read, feel, or hear something and wordsCannot not describe the emotions, thoughts or actions it brings out of you. There comes a time in life when you feel inspired to do something that it is you've never done before,Experience things you never thought you could do. There comes a time in your life when against all odds you know there is a light at the end of the tunnel, And that you will make it out okay. Breathing, living, crying, screamin
There comes a time in life when you read, feel, or hear something and wordsCannot not describe the emotions, thoughts or actions it brings out of you.
There comes a time in life when you feel inspired to do something that it is you've never done before,Experience things you never thought you could do.
There comes a time in life when you say no matter what, at the end of the day I gave it my all.Knowing that there is peace within you and with all that surrounds you.
I just read this whole thing on a plane and WOW. This is one of the best contemporaries I've read in a long time. I was wary of this book because it's new adult, but I really, really enjoyed it. Having older characters was a nice change and the story was seriously so fast and addicting. *flies to Amazon to order sequel*
Book Trailer: http://toughcriticbookreviews.blogspo...So I promised myself I wouldn't use some cheesy play on the word slammed, but daaaaaamn this book not only slammed me right out of my book slump but slammed me into total Colleen Hoover submission!!
I confess I wasn't slammed right away.
I love it when I don't see it coming.
Her relationship with her mom, her brother.
I'm in love...with EVERYONE!!I instantly dove right into Point of Retreat without even coming up for air.
I never saw this series coming, but it slammed into me with such force all I can say is read the book!!Reviewed at http://toughcriticbookreviews.blogspo...
However, as I kept reading, I found myself connecting with the emotions in the book.
My dad was diagnosed with cancer and was told he would live 6 months.
He lived 6 years, but the time never seemed like enough.
I felt like he was doing it on purpose - shaking his fist at my anger and grief.I understood Will and Layken's acceptance.
I forgave him a long time ago.By the end of this book, I was in tears and thinking about my dad, but more than that, I was thinking, 'Colleen Hoover deserves every ounce of her success'.
This was an awesome, heartwarming story but it wasn't a complete five star for me because of two ppl: Lake and Will.
Besides all that, they're relationship with their brothers and how they looked out for/ helped out with each other's sibling even though they had issues was completely amazing.
Lake's mom and her best friend Eddie were my two favorite characters in the whole book, those ladies had great advice, were hilarious and knew how to deal with difficult situations like a boss, also the support from those two was amazing and heart-touching🖤 like wow, especially when they were both dealing with complicating, life changing issues in their own lives.
They are both comfused and they cant forget each other but being friends is better than avoiding each other like plague.Will is always there for her as she needs someone to comfort her.Lake's life does only get worse because the tragedies in her family have no end.(view spoiler)[Her mum has lung canser :'( (hide spoiler)]Okay in this point I was wondering "Was that really necessary??"I used to love the oceanEverything about her ...Well would you realizeLike I eventually realizedThat all the good things about her?All the beautifulIt's not realIt's fakeSo you can keep the oceanI'll take the Lake I enjoyed this book so much.This story captivated me a lot and made me jealous of Lake.(view spoiler)[Her teacher is hot when mine always looked like this (hide spoiler)]I couldnt predict what I will happen and I was shocked many times.I admire a lot Will.He is a good example to everyone.I also loved their younger siblings.Those litlle monsters stole my heart.
Eighteen year-old Layken, or Lake, has just moved to Michigan from Texas.
Immediately after pulling up with the moving van, Lake meets the neighbor across the street, Will, and his little brother Caulder.
He's a few years older than Lake, and in her eyes, "hot." Caulder and Lake's younger brother, Kel are fast friends, playing the minute Kel jumps out of the moving van.
Although things start looking up for Lake when Will asks her out on a date.
I adored the little brothers, Caulder and Kel, and Lake's mom too (even though I was a little angry with her for some things).
Waves that have words floating in them like  original  and  heart-breaking  and  tear-jerker  and  romantic  and  deep  and  thought-provoking.
Slammed  starts off with Layken (Lake) moving to Michigan after the sudden death of her father and, like so many female protagonists these days, she immediately meets a dashing young man – Will.
If Will and Layken’s love story had been better developed and had more than two chapters devoted to it, I would have definitely liked this book a  lot  better than I did.
Eddie, for those of you who haven’t read  Slammed  yet, is Layken’s best friend and perhaps my favorite character in the story.
3 Stars  “Life happens. Shit happens. And it happens a lot. To a lot of people.”  I loved that the book focused on the stages of grief and the significance of healing other than the romance. However, I feel like I would've enjoyed this book so much more if there wasn't the infamous insta-love. I lost my connection with the book the moment Layken "Lake" Cohen and Will Cooper became emotionally attached to each other in an instant. Would it have been better if they started off as "friends" rather
“Life happens.
Shit happens.
And it happens a lot.
I loved that the book focused on the stages of grief and the significance of healing other than the romance.
However, I feel like I would've enjoyed this book so much more if there wasn't the infamous insta-love.
Would it have been better if they started off as "friends" rather than having their relationship fast-forwarded to "forbidden love"?The best parts of this book were Lake and her family's interactions.
I conclude that Slammed wasn't one of those Colleen Hoover books that gave me such an indefinable feeling.
But please, no more insta-love.
THIS BOOK <3 CAN'T WAIT TO READ MORE COLLEEN HOOVER! Here's my booktalkhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xi3MA...
Holy hell.
I read this in 6 hours.
I don't even remember if I fed the kids dinner or who put them to bed.
This book deserves a lot more than 5 stars.
I don't even remember the last book I read that sucked me in like "Slammed" did.
Colleen - you have a way with words & story telling.
It is glaringly obvious why this was picked up by S&S.
Beautiful story, amazing poetry, characters I want to know in real life...I can't say enough good things.
You have a gift.
I would read the phone book of you wrote it.
You get cheesy me when I was so moved that I had to STOP thinking about the book at work for fear I’d tear up again.
I know I’m a crybaby and can cry over any sad scene but this book moved me, it wasn’t just sad scenes.
I’m just telling you- it moved me.This book is not your normal story.
It’s not intended to tell the story of Layken or even go in-depth over any of Layken’s problems.
It doesn’t mean I didn’t think the little taste of Layken’s life wasn’t amazing, it just means I want more.Layken and Will and “the brothers” were amazing.
2.5 stars A lot of potential, but I think this one tried to tackle too many issues without exploring any one of them with enough depth and focus for my taste. And please, if you have a character who is a teacher, let's have him know how to conjugate the word "lie" correctly!Still, with more editing and thematic/character development, I think this author might have interesting things to offer in the future. Definitely interested in seeing what happens with the sequel.
