https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1906987.Dr_Atkins_New_Diet_Revolution

It was realised that if you actually stuck to the diet rigidly you would put yourself at risk of heart disease, but when the diet was still current for diabetics, it was realised that without the diet they weren't going to live long enough to get clogged arteries from all that red meat's cholesterol.The book does not make any of that clear.
It is a dangerous book that puts weight loss for vanity (surely not health) above a long and healthy life.
It should be noted that when Dr. Atkins died, he was obese and had heart disease himself.
With results like these in 6 weeks I can't imagine how much better we will feel in 6 months or a year.
12 week updateSo I have reviewed one other diet book as well that I really loved and I like to come back and give updates because lets face it most of us don't stick with a diet long term.
I was going to be off plan for 13 days and anyone who knows low carb diets know that means a lot of water weight gain when you start eating carbs again.
Really interesting and I lost a ton of weight when I did this, felt great, etc. Problem is that you can't give a diet book five stars or i would. He gets a horrible rap, but I was amazed to see how easy it was for people to cut the crap and trim down on it, no starvation required. Amen.
I've lost 90+ pounds since February of 2010, using the "Atkins" method specified in this book.
I don't think this system is for everybody (due to the vagaries of human physiology; we're not all the same, and this program will work much better for some, than it will for others), but you should give it a try and see if its for you.
It may very well have saved my life, and I felt several hundred percent better within a week of going on the Atkins plan.
Dr. Atkins New Diet Revolution is a book that puts you on a diet that really works.
Dr. Atkins first wrote about his diet in the early 70's.
I tried the diet and lost 15 pounds in the first two months.
But then life took over, and being young and Italian, there was no way I was passing up bread, pasta and pizza.
Fast forward thirty five years later.
My weight had ballooned up to 235 pounds, even though I was working out at the gym 5-6 days a week.
I met a friend at the gym who had obviously lost
I tried the diet and lost 15 pounds in the first two months.
Even though all pure alcoholic beverage have zero carbs too, they tell you to drink any liquor during the Induction Phase, because it raises your blood sugar, which stunts weight loss on this diet.
Even though I lost my desired weight, I will never go off the Atkins Diet completely.
The bottom line, if you can forgo bread, deserts, pizza, and other foods high in carbs, like corn and carrots, the Atkins' Diet is one where you'll never go hungry.
I wouldn't have read this book except that my husband was advised by his doctor to try out the Atkins diet, and I'm glad I did.
In fact, I was primed, because a well-known sports scientist had been talking about a low-carbohydrate eating plan on the radio and I had already experimented, with positive results.
In fact, after reading the book, that feeling of care had communicated itself to me, so that I wanted to help my friends and family see the benefits of a controlled carbohydrate diet as well.
The whole high fat/high protein/low carb thing is counter-intuitive, but I promise it works.2011/10/26 - I re-read this book again as I had gone off the diet and really need to lose about 40 pounds (I'm 6'0" and was 245 lbs).
This allows for things like some nuts, grains, and fruit.The book is great and if you really need to lose weight, feel great, get your energy back and not be hungry, this is the best way of eating out there.The way I figure it, if you're going to go on a diet, might as well do the one that works and also leaves you feeling satisfied.
I could totally relate to this book.I too made notes of every calorie and food type that would enter my body and the emotions I felt during the process of every mouthful.
But I took away a lot of interesting facts and information to help boost my health without having the emotional breakdowns, because now I have the answers to my outbreaks and that alone is enough to deflect all signs of anxiety and paranoia.Thank you Mr Atkins for reassuring my way of life and philosophy.
Many people don't lose weight on high carbohydrate, low fat diets.
A of people think the Atkins Diet is "all meat, all fat", but reading this book, I can see it's not about eating protein all the time.
He advocates salads, vegetables, fruits and low-carb desserts.
In the most protein-heavy part of the diet, the Induction period, lasting about a week, he advocates two cups of salad daily.
It's actually healthier than the way most Americans eat.
I would say most Americans don't eat two cups of salad a day.
Atkins is a pretty healthy way to eat IF you follow what he says.
This book is awesome, it really blew the doors open to nutritional information. This is the first diet book I read that really made sense and completely changed the way I look at food. Dr. Atkins guides you through choosing the right foods and you can't help but get excited to "go on Atkins". Everyone I know that has read the book has gotten really motivated and lost weight. It's a good blend of friendly advice, coaching, entertaining writing, and the credentials of a doctor that make this a very good book.
I feel like staying on this super-low carb diet for so long delayed my health from beginning to improve as well, as it made my body work harder than it had to on food assimilation which of course leaves less metabolic energy and bodily resources left over for the work of healing.Books such as Perfect Health Diet: Four Steps to Renewed Health, Youthful Vitality, and Long Life explain that eating very low carb and making your body convert proteins to carbs puts strain on the liver and uses up bodily resources, generates ammonia as a toxic by-product, puts a person at risk of glucose deprivation if the are ill or lacking in certain nutrients and makes nutrient deficiencies more likely due to lower fruit and vegetable intake.
I really liked this book because, although I no longer follow the diet as strictly as it requires (I stopped it when I got pregnant and never went back), it really gives you a great foundation on why it's so important to limit "bad" carbs and how to implement better eating habits.
But eventually, you get used to it, and you really cut your dependency on sugar and carbs.
Despite the rumors, you DO get to eat fruits, vegies, and some carbs, but initially you are extremely limited.
I DO suggest for assistance in eating a better proportioned diet without carbs (just cut the fat as well!).
My issue with this book was not the basic tenets of the diet--I have been on low-carb diets before and find Dr. Atkins' approach, incorporating large amounts of fat for satiety and ketosis/lipolysis, to be a reasonable one, and his explanations of the processes are good.
The work of dieting, and the business of cheating, often already involves a degree of shame--no more is needed from the author of a diet book.I did not actually test the Atkins Diet--I read this as part of a survey of many diet books for a project--but from my experience with other diets, I would say that one element I would examine closely is food quality, which Atkins does not discuss.
The Atkins approach is the only thing that has ever really worked for me and the only thing that has ever made any sense for how my body functions. Hard to believe people still think they "know" what Atkins is (only bacon and butter! bad for your kidneys!) when they have never even read the book... Would recommend this to anyone needing to lose weight or just wanting to feel more alert and alive every day. It might not work for everyone's body type but it certainly works for mine!
I love this book. I read it many years ago and it was one of the first diets I tried that actually works. I love how Dr. Atkins explains the science behind why the diet works and I love how he gives actual case studies of his patients. This is the diet that I always come back to because it works and one day hopefully I can make it my permanent way of eating, as that is the point of Atkins, meaning, it's not a "diet", but the way that you eat for life.
After reading Why We Get Fat and it made so much sense, this was the natural follow-up. After finishing the entire book I began following Atkins (or as close as I could) and in all honesty have never felt better in my life. I can only assume all those carbs were wearing me down.Really, really good! Read the kindle version but definitely will be picking up a paperback so I can have a hard copy to refer back to.Today begins week four . . .
I don't know if the 'induction phase' of 20 g carbs a day is necessary (or safe).
But I think any diet that keeps your blood sugar lower has merit.
And some high fiber foods have a high glycemic index, like whole wheat breads and cereals:http://www.glycemicindex.com/faq_java...I like Tom Naughton's diet in 'Fat Head' on Hulu.
100 g of carb a day, nothing but McDonald's.
He just had double whoppers and diet cokes.
:) http://www.hulu.com/watch/196879/fat-...
(The first half of the movie isn't so hot.)Yesterday, I was trying to eat for 'low blood sugar' instead of 'growling stomach'.
I guess my carb intake was too low.
I'm glad I borrowed this and didn't spend money on it. At the time, I had no idea what Atkins was about, but a little reading made me realize that; a) you may as well mainline pure grease into your body; and b) vegans can't do it.
This is the 'secret' to achieving and maintaining weightloss. This way of eating is the most pain-free method of losing weight. Read this without pre-conceived ideas. I am recommending this to anyone who expresses the wish to lose weight!
It's a shocker. Really.
Ótimo livro que descreve uma maneira sólida de perder e manter o peso baixo, baseado em inúmeros estudos e evidências, ao contrário dos que a acusam de não funcionar ou fazer mal à saúde. Fato é, carboidratos, e em especial o açúcar, são extremamente viciantes, e em excesso prejudiciais. Não que esta dieta seja a única que funciona, mas esta e a crudívora são as que apresentam melhores resultados relatados.
Helped me lose 50 lbs.
Millions of people are following the Atkins Nutritional Plan, and all of them seem to be losing weight.
All claims have been refuted multiple times (Amazon does not allow the posting of exterior links in reviews, or I'd send the same fifty or so links I sent to the Atkins Center), and yet Atkins holds onto the belief, saying there are "questions about aspartame's safety." One has to think that if the man is still holding to a view espoused only by a few so far out on the lunatic fringe they're liable to fall off a tassel, there may be some other urban legend-style skeletons farther down in the man's closet.
Part Four mostly carried on the same tone but moved back into topics that Why We Get Fat did better on without being so uninteresting/rage-inducing.Part Five was fine enough, especially for kitchen basic ideas and a substitution guide (like The Joy of Cooking but for controlling carb intake), but I realized when looking through the recipes that I'd be much more likely to use the website to find things, though I rather I could search by ingredients there.I do think Part Two of the book did a better job conveying the full picture than the website does, which is mostly due to the different mediums being worked with, so it's still worth reading for that section.
if you're obese, diabetic, or suffering from an enslavement to refined carbohydrates, this diet can break you of that cycle and leads to rapid weight loss.
his decades of clinical practice in treating morbid obesity and type II diabetes really are the foundation of this book.
more modern permutations of his thinking like the south beach diet have trumpeted the virtues of complex carbohydrates and steady protein intake.
the new editions are true "diet" books.
the same artificial diet products and crap that he argued against in his original editions, just formulated to fit within his dietary guidelines.
Because I'm not dramatically overweight, nor have I tried and failed all my life to lose weight.
I#m only a little overweight so I'm not entirely convinced that I need to dramatically drop my consumption of carbs.
It's taken me perhaps 12 years to put on 14 pounds of excess weight, and that's while eating no shortage of rice, pasta and spuds...so I'm not convinced that continuing to do so, albeit in a more considered way, will do me any harm.A gripe with the book is how much stress is made of how you'll "never count calories" again.
I used the basis of this diet to lose 6-8 kilos, and kept it off, rather than that plague-all of slowly gaining it back again, because this diet forces you to really re-vamp your food habits, but in a nice way.
I then coupled the basics of this diet with about 5 others, so if I failed with one in some way, I could resort that day to another, and not feel that i had strayed and failed my diet.
This diet won't work for everyone but as a diabetic it is the best, so far, for me.
For someone who finds cold turkey is best I am envious.
I cut out major carbs one at a time: bread, rice, then potatoes and finally pasta.
I make my favorite meals but eliminate pasta/rice and replace with extra vegetables and extra protein.
My secret was to have, readily accessible, plenty of low carb snacks.
I eat four times a day without limiting my portions of the food allowed because feeling hungry leads me to eat too many carbs.
Well, I'm glad I read this because it really does get criticised by people who've obviously never picked it up.
I read this out of interest, never having any intention to try the diet and lose weight.
To his credit, he does warn people off margarine and other sources of trans-fats, but I'd be careful about eating a diet that was potentially SO high in saturated fats from animal sources.
Still, I'm glad I read it.
