https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3450744-nudge
If a particular church refuses to marry you because you want to marry someone they don’t think you should – well, find yourself another church – or even better yet, avoid churches altogether.The last part of this book is a defence of the idea of nudges against radical free market types; the sorts of people who, like our previous government, think that choice is always good and ill-informed choice is even better.
The employees can opt out or change their contribution amount at any time, but by enrolling everyone by default, the company does an end run around its workers' natural procrastination tendencies, without forcing them into anything.Another use of "nudging," this one on the state level, might be to require that everyone signing up for a driver's license check a box saying either "Yes, I want to be an organ donor" or "No, I don't wish to be an organ donor." Or, a state could change its laws so that people are, by default, assumed to be willing donors unless they say they don't want to.
The book has some value, but the title led me to pick it up under the belief that it might help me to understand myself better and learn better ways to navigate my choices. It turned out to be more of a laundry list of examples how businesses try to manipulate us, a list that was nudged into book-length...
هذا كتاب مساعدة ذاتية مفيد ومهم للحائز على نوبل في الاقتصاد ريتشارد ثالرأنصح به الجميعوسأعاود الاطلاع عليه لاستخلاص مزيد من النقاط من وقت لآخر...
But I was pleasantly surprised at how readable and relatable the book was and how our decision making can be influenced by Nudges of all kinds and how society reacts to Nudges.Only 3 out 10 people in the group finished the book and yet the discussion created was lively and interesting with everyone participating and having an opinion.
Not one I would be recommending but certainly a book that has food for thought.
As I ploughed my way through this I kept thinking of a comment by the great photographer Eve Arnold to the effect (and with a few more expletives) that she was not the genius many proclaimed, it was just that everyone else was so mediocre: the praise singers do themselves no favour by shouting about the marvel that this book is.It has one central idea, grounded in social psychology, that with careful thought and planning people can be encouraged to ‘freely chose’ things that are good for them, with the corollary that too much choice or unclear choices will lead to many/most people making bad choices.
When a company gives employees a choice among investment plans, how should the be described?
Should there be a default plan such that, if no explicit choice is made, gets chosen automatically?
But, should a company or a government give a subtle nudge by intelligently designing a form, an intelligent default, and so on?
While in theory it is a correctable choice, it is not one that my people make over and over again.
The authors argue that there is not reason for the government to be in the marriage business at all.This book is a quick and easy read.
Many voters couldn't tell which punch hole was designated for which candidate, and as a result voted for a candidate they had not intended to.)The authors discuss nudges and choice architecture in the contexts of investing, health insurance, organ donation, school choice, privatizing marriage, and other areas.
Weaker chapters were on school choice (the authors uncritically accept the notion that vouchers are good) and on medical malpractice insurance.On the latter: they argue that the price of health insurance contains the cost of malpractice lawsuits, and therefore if a buyer of health insurance could waive filing such suits, their health insurance premium would be cheaper, and doctors and hospitals would also be able to charge them less.
This is a terrific book.
The authors cover terrain which has been explored recently in a whole slew of books: loosely speaking, why we humans persistently engage in behavior patterns which do not benefit us in the long term.
Their own research, at the University of Chicago, builds upon the work of Tversky and Kahneman in behavioral economics (very much in vogue this past few years).
In the book, they provide a funny, engaging, remarkably clear exposition of the various factors which lead us to make poor decisions.
What makes this book stand out though is that they actually suggest *remedies* that might help us save ourselves from our own flawed gut instincts.
As an economist, Nudge was a book that I desperately wanted to like.
Perhaps my low rating of the book stems from my high expectations of a book co-authored by the well-regarded behavioral economist Richard Thaler.
The main point of the book is that nudges matter and thus should be carefully designed.The rest of the book presents a laundry list of policies to which we should apply this principle.
And yet, although it's supposed to be targeted towards the layman, the writing is oftentimes confused about its audience.
The rest of the book I recommend only to those want to read a laundry list of political suggestions.
While Thaler and Sunstein are happy to revel in the small ways that their insights into "choice architecture" can lead to better or worse choices, they also lay out their political principles and detail their impact on current policy debates (e.g., Social Security, Medicare Part D, Education.) To top it all off, they begin the book with a treatment of our cognitive failings, distinguishing between our automatic and reflective processing systems (what's not to love!), leading right into their arguments for how to help the automatic majority overcome their cognitive frailty without infringing the reflective minority's ability to choose.So what is choice architecture?
Now, these are what I felt the authors tried to do:1)	Cover a lot of ground without being deep.2)	Cherry Picked popular points of Psychology and Influence which have been covered by other authors and streamline them into this book (the smiley face technique, public statement on losing weight, the paradox of choice, peoples inability to explain why they do what they do etc.)3)	And then bring in taxes, organ donation, medical insurance plans (that was never ending), privatizing marriages, political decisions, social security and its benefits, libertarian paternalism – and well the list goes on.
Personally, I feel the authors tried to replicate and combine a style of what Freakonomics (Dubner and Levitt), Predictably Irrational (Dan Ariely), Influence (Robert Cialdini) and Tipping Point (Malcolm Gladwell) all have done and ended up messing up a good book.
According to them, because the people are only “nudged” into making better choices, their personal liberty (a paramount concern for economists) is preserved.
The authors apply the Nudge model to a host of complex and seemingly intractable issues like Social Security, prescription drug coverage, and preserving the environment.
Presumably, those too lazy to save (note the assumption) now would be too lazy to opt-out under the Nudge system.The authors also show how people can use the Nudge model in their own lives.
Well, you go to stickk, sign-up for free, and set up your nudge.
هذا الكتاب ينقسم إلى جزئي الأول يناقش الأساس الذي يبني عليه الكاتب فكرته ونصيحته ( nudge ) والثاني هو ما يسعى فيه لإبداء النصح للحكومات والأفراد فيما يتعلق ببعض الشئون المالية والصحية والإجتماعية.
لذا كان القسم الثاني ويحتل ما يقارب ثلثي الكتاب لا فائدة منه بالنسبة للقاريء العربي مثلي، الذي لا شأن له في تقرير السياسات و القوانين.
لكن الجزء الأول من الكتاب على مدى 107 صفحات فيه الكثير من المعلومات والإشارات الجيدة و عرض لكثير من الدراسات المميزة في المجال.
كما يعرض الكتاب لخلاصة جيدة لجهد كاهنمان وتفيرسكي مما شجعني للعودة إلى مراجعة كتاب الأول ( التفكير بسرعة وببطء) .
It is, however, a book almost everyone should read - especially politicians, technocrats, and others in positions of public policy.Sunstein and Thaler argue that dramatic changes in human behavior can be effected through sensible changes in "choice architecture".
It can range from how choices are presented (make the broccoli easy to reach and in sight, but put the double fudge cake on the bottom shelf), to default options (make retirement plans opt-out, rather than opt-in), to a wide variety of other "nudges".Nudge presents a copious amounts of data from psychology and behavioral economics.
It would be unfair to label Nudge as 'one of those pop-psychology books' as a.
I frown on pop psychology and rate Nudge higher, and b.
I'm trying not to generalise.What I'm trying to say is Nudge fits into the same category as other insightful books such as Gladwell's Blink, or the recent Redirect[[ASIN:0316010669 Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking]][[ASIN:0316051888 Redirect: The Surprising New Science of Psychological Change]]Beginning with a non-partisan disclaimer Nudge explores the concept of choice architecture: essentially controlling the environment in which people make choices to encourage well-being without directly controlling peoples choice.Like most insightful type books, Nudge occasionally errs from actually discussing Nudge's and becoming the author's expression of 'how things should be in the world' but is an enjoyable and balanced read nonetheless.Highlights include The author's discussion of the affects of medical liability insurance, and the privatisation of marriage, but issues from environmentalism and eating peanuts at a party are also included.Much recommended for anyone wanting to think about politics and interventions a little differently.
Nudge - A Catalyst to change human routine Blunders.
I like Parts like Money, Freedom among I love Author's intelligent case studies and explanations of "Save More Tomorrow, Choice Architecture, Saving the planet etc".
When he talks about Dozen Nudges, I love Automatic Tax Return, Quit Smoking without a patch, give more tomorrow, The Civility Check etc.
To be genuine, I read this book twice.
REALLY it's an interesting book to read, to link with our day to day life and to avoid our blunders in life at some extent.
When faced with complex decisions like those, most citizens accept the default option: vote with their guts or don’t vote at all.Thaler and Sunstein’s solution to our shortcomings in logic is to help people to make smarter decisions without forcing their choices.
Nudge is directed toward “choice architects”—those people who have “the responsibility for organizing the context in which people make decisions.” Choice architecture is at play in everything from the design of election ballots to placement of stop signs, structuring of payroll and benefits options to setting up chairs for a community meeting.
In that, the authors propose an idea for engineering a society that can both allow gay marriage but also allow for a literal interpretation of religious texts.
So they argue that a nudge can guide a human to make the rational choice.
Which they argue means allowing for freedom of choice and personal rights while nudging the uninformed, the non econ, the human, to the right direction.
But a nudge can also be as grandiose as not allowing people to enter a marriage without a prenuptial agreement.
The book eases you into the theory of nudging.
The final section is mostly about applying the nudge theory to a larger society.
I picked up a few ideas to use when creating websites for my web design business, OptimWise: use incentives to nudge users in certain directions, provide good default options, and gracefully handle user errors.The authors explain that humans have “automatic” and “reactive” systems; the automatic system is the subconscious, emotional “gut instinct”, while the reactive system is the intellectual conscious.
Nudges help the reactive system overpower the automatic system.The authors use libertarian paternalism to advocate specific policies for public and private institutions, dealing with topics in personal finance (saving, retirement, debt, mortgages), health care, education, and politics.
Although I enjoyed reading the book, for me it was basically preaching to the converted, without the necessary punch behind the ideas to ever convince any Republican big-government corporate-nanny-state lover.
When the book hit its political and social manifesto stride, I was slightly disappointed, but the authors’ chummy style and practical ideas kept me interested.
Or manipulative?The authors, Richard Thaler and Cass Sunstein, faculty at the University of Chicago, define a “nudge” as (Page 6): “.
. .is any aspect of the choice architecture that alters people’s behavior in a predictable way without forbidding any options or significantly changing their economic incentives.” Indeed, they define their perspective as “libertarian paternalism.” They believe in freedom but also wish to use “nudges” to induce people to improve their health, and live longer and happier.One simple example?
Do we subtly manipulate people into doing things that they might not voluntarily wish to do?
A provocative and fascinating work, well worth reading.
I liked the first part, where the authors discussed choice architecture generally.
However, they then went on to discuss many choice architecture issues in a manner I found confusing.
The authors seem to find fault with the way student loans are done.
They seem to criticize schools for selecting a few loan providers to recommend, because there is bribery to become one of the ones selected.
The authors then criticize another plan (I think Medicare) for not recommending certain of the available plans, because people have too much choice.
Melancholy students who have used up their vital forces in their studies, and the old in whom these forces are in any case declining, are therefore advised to avoid as far as possible plants, herbs, animals, stones, and the like belonging to Saturn, and to use and surround themselves with plants, herbs, animals, stones, people, belonging to the more fortunate, cheerful, and life-giving planets, of which the chief are Sol, Jupiter, and Venus.
Ficino also gives advice on how to choose a non-Saturnian diet, and thinks that the use of pleasant odours and scents is beneficial.Not sure why the author could focus on similar insights like these instead of resorteing to platitates.

Kazancını maksimize etmeye çalışan akıllı yatırımcıların, her zaman aklın yolunu bulmasını bilen akılcı tüketicilerin, rasyonel insanların dünyasından "serbestçi ataerkil dürtmenin" toplumsal/ekonomik davranışlarımızı yönlendirmede en iyi yol olduğu düşüncesine geldik. Nobel ödüllü Thaler'in, davranışçı iktisat ve hukuk konularında çalışan düşünür Cass R. Sunstein'la ortaklaşa yazdığı kitap, insanların davranışlarının "istenen sonuçlar" vermesi için küçük dürtmelerle düzeltilmesi gerektiği ana fikrine dayanıyor: Tüketici davranışları, bağışlar, öğrenci kredileri, sağlık sigortaları, tasarruflar, motosiklet sürücülerinin kask takması, hatta evlilikler gibi seçim alanlarında "daha iyiye nasıl ulaşabiliriz? Dürtme, bir kitaptan çok kamu kuruluşlarına tavsiye broşürü gibi.

I have the unfortunate habit of backtracking through citations in books I've recently finished. I like to see where the author(s) have pulled evidence from and how they use it. I found that Daniel Kahneman's  Thinking, Fast and Slow  heavily cited Thaler's Nudge to the point that I basically needed to read this book. Then, the chicken or egg question started to repeat itself in my head while I was reading. Nudge needs to be prefaced with the fact that Richard H. Thaler and Daniel Kahneman met at
At the time, Kahneman and Adam Tversky had published their famous work in heuristics and biases (herein heuristics are rules of thumb that people use to form judgments and make decisions; cognitive biases are the results of heuristics that deviate from logic, probability, and rational choice theory - basically when our rules of thumb lead us astray).
While Kahneman (+ Tversky) developed theory in behavioral psychology, Thaler developed work that oppose the rational economic theory (that people will make decisions with rationality that leads to the most optimal level of benefit or utility), referring to it as econs vs.
So basically we all need to reprogram our brain with little nudges because humans are inherently irrational creatures.
Our conscious thought is reserved for decisions we need to focus on, and can't always handle the stress of making decisions when it matters.We are burdened with too much or too little information, which leaves us feeling lost or overwhelmed and we need nudges to help push us into the right direction until rational behavior becomes our instinct.
Rather than overwhelming people with options, Thaler suggested offering a default of 80% coverage for general expenses and building out from there based on any further needs a person might have.
This book is not what I thought it would be.I somehow thought it would be about how to improve decision *making* for, say, yourself (which would impact things like Health, Wealth, and Happiness), but it was about choice architecture and how to frame choices to make people choose what you think they should choose.Which might have been interesting if that's what the book covered.
They then left discussion of choice architecture to focus on what the authors' thought should be the solution to problems like losing weight, medicare/health plans, marriage equality (same sex marriage) and retirement accounts (to focus on a few).And then there was lots of discussion about how they are libertarian paternalists, which really stuck in my craw.
