https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/666143.The_Immense_Journey
The middle chapters of the book become a bit more scientific and straightforward, but the information Eiseley presents is fascinating (if, by now, slightly outdated) and he never manages to hide the fact that he has a way with words beyond many novelists.
In the last three or four chapters, he returns predominantly to a more poetic, romantic style, allowing the book to come full circle.
Eiseley certainly has an agenda, but his writing never comes across as overly preachy or manipulative, which I think is why I appreciate it so much.
Somewhere down the stairs of time lie the secrets of life and this book is as good a way down that staircase as the most powerful microscope.I really enjoyed the chapter "The Dream Animal" in which Dr. Eiseley marvels at the rapid pace at which the human brain seems to have developed.
He suggests that what goes on between our ears might be the "true" evolutionary pressure that has led us through the maze of development and ultimately resulted in our emergence.
By all means, read this book, even if you're not an evolutionist.
i have fond memories of reading loren eiseley in the late 1960s.
one of my fondest memories is that i was reading either this book or 'night country' when i first met the late science fiction writer, philip k dick.
all i know is that he and my friend stubby spent that evening and several others discussing eiseley and lorenz and others of that time and way i should or should not be reading them.
3 1/2 stars.This is a hard book for me to rate.It started off really strong (first five essays), I lost a little bit of interest & got annoyed around the middle, and it ended strong--the last three essays being especially good.I guess this means, looking back over the chapters, that what worked for me was his perspectives on nature as a whole--water, earth, plants, animals, the long process of evolution, wonderings about various aspects of our world.
"The sound that awoke me was the outraged cries of the nestling's parents, who flew helplessly in circles about the clearing.
Into the glade fluttered small birds of half a dozen varieties drawn by the anguished outcries of the tiny parents.
And he, the murderer, the black bird at the heart of life, sat on there, glistening in the common light, formidable, unmoving, unperturbed, untouchable.
Till suddenly they took heart and sang from many throats joyously together as birds are known to sing.
In simple truth they had forgotten the raven, for they were the singers of life, not death." (174-175).
Loren Eisley is an anthropologist who writes like John Donne.
A perfect example is his chapter called "The Dream Animal." In "The Dream Animal" Eisley starts by pondering a genuine problem in evolutionary biology - the remarkably short period of time (approx.
For it was truly man who, walking memoryless through bars of sunlight and shade in the morning of the world, sat down and passed a wondering hand over a heavy forehead.
He became best-known for his nature writings and "The Immense Journey" is his first book, a collection of essays first published in 1946 (my edition was published in 1957).
His best writing is based on observations he made of animals and plants--and nature as a whole-- and his reflections upon them.
Here's an example ( Eiseley is exploring along the Platte River--and decides to float downstream): "For an instant...I had the sensation of sliding down the vast tilted face of the continent...Moving with me...was the immense body of the continent itself, flowing like the river was flowing, grain by grain, mountain by mountain, down to the sea.
The essay stuck with me, but it's only now, 27 years later, that I've read anything else Eiseley's written.It's a tough book to read in one go.
The book is not uneven, but you're three-quarters of the way through it before you figure out what he's trying to say.If that excerpt from "The Angry Winter" shows anything, it's that you don't need the scientific realism to understand the less-worldly spiritual message, especially when scientific reality is probably a bit dated after sixty years.
(Which describes literature, basically.)Note: I think Eiseley is very quotable, in that his essays work well in excerpt, but the hazard of being quotable is being deprived of context.
Loren Eiseley, in prose that is closely related to poetry, demonstrates to the reader the awe-inspiring nature of being. Of existing as a human as fellow life to the other forms of life we share the world with. And of the incredibly immense journey life has taken as nature crafts it through millions of years. This is a beautiful book.
The best of this is lyrical and profound. The worst is inauthentic and dated. Eiseley was a poet-naturalist whose immersion into nature resulted in gorgeous prose.
He blogs and documents his journey and in one of his blogs a few months ago, I came across the following passage:"Loren Eiseley, a brilliant if almost forgotten essayist of the middle of the last century, wrote of waking up one early morning in a hotel room high above Manhattan and imagining that city emptied of humans and reclaimed, in some future dawn, by birds: “At this hour the city was theirs, and quietly, without the brush of a single wing tip against stone in that high, eerie place, they were taking over the spires of Manhattan.
After years, I can pick up The Immense Journey, Darwin's Century, The Night Country, and other books to find myself enrapt by captivating prose evoking the long shadows of an evolving Earth and its tiny, whirling track among galaxies.In The Immense Journey, he recalls a moth under an opera tent, a seemingly insignificant subject, but in his prose he provides a metaphor that reaches above the tent into the night sky, up toward the stars.
We are like Loren Eiseley's moth, blundering from light to light, unable to discern the great play that blazes under the opera tent.In The Unbearable Lightness of Being, Milan Kundera finds a voice for imagination and his experiences in Soviet Czechoslovakia.
The journey is difficult, immense, at times impossible, yet that will not deter some of us from attempting it.
We have joined the caravan, you might say, at a certain point; we will travel as far as we can, but we cannot in one lifetime see all that we would like to see or learn all that we hunger to know.""For the first time in four billion years a living creature had contemplated himself and heard with a sudden, unaccountable loneliness, the whisper of the wind in the night reeds.
Perhaps he knew, there in the grass by the chill waters, that he had before him an immense journey.
I first happened upon the books of Loren Eiseley in the Ansel Adams Gallery at Yosemite National Park.
Eiseley's narrative-spinning style of science writing was probably my first experience in reading natural history.
Going back for a re-read at sixty-five made me a little apprehensive that "you can't go back." But, having read a lot more science in the intervening years, I was probably able to read with more understanding this time around.The Immense Journey, collected from magazine articles written in the 1940s and 1950s, is way out of date, of course, but Eiseley's prose and thoughts are still a pleasure to read, so his books will probably remain classics for a long time to come.If I have any complaint, it's in Eiseley's (and he's not the only one who does this) tendency to write the occasional sentence that drifts into teleology, even though it's plain that he doesn't really think that way.
Simply the most beautiful science writing I have ever read.
An “imaginative naturalist,” according to the cover of his book, The Immense Journey.
By the time we read these words we have come to realize that Eiseley is not just talking about his own life’s journey.
Eiseley’s narrator is metaphor for the journey of all humankind through the vast dimension of time and space—a journey filled with perplexity, delight, and impermanence.
I can at best report only from my own wilderness” (p 13).This book is science and philosophy presented in lucid, beautiful prose - a reader's delight.Loren Eiseley
I have enough books on my shelves that I often find myself searching fruitlessly for something I know I have.
I have organized my books by general subject matter and alphabetized by author and still I search.
There are some authors whose books I can put my hands on instantly.
Loren Eiseley is one of those authors.
as he does in his essays entitled The Starthrower, and The Bird and The Machine.
In the title essay of this book, we can feel the tension as he crawls deeper and deeper into a rocky cleft where he finds an ancient saber tooth skull.
My microbiology degree and its demands of memorization of cellular respiration and precise locations of carbon molecules throughout biochemical cycles sucked the color out of science.
So, I wish I had read this book as an undergrad, or found a class that taught such broad strokes of insight.
This is evolution written by a scientist who shares his head with a poet, and the product is a beautiful attempt to grasp not just how hydrogen becomes energy but why and what that means on an existential scale.I loved this and feel like it should be 5 stars, but I don't remember much of it and this is my subjective world, so 4 stars it is.
I read this book many years ago and enjoyed it just as much this time. Eiseley was a paleontologist who thought deeply and vividly imaged the past. With his mind uncluttered by electronic noise he would spend long days digging in remote areas, imagining the ancient creatures and their environments whose bones he was uncovering. His reflections are full of awe for the workings of nature, for the amazing reality of life, wondering about the process of evolution. His insight into the process of the evolution of the human mind, ideas, and culture is still relevant 50 years later.
This book by Loren Eiseley is inspired. Possibly my favorite of all time. But rather than repeat everything I'll just post a link to my blog for a fuller review.https://midmiocene.wordpress.com/2015...
Beautiful, beautiful writing...
Loren Eiseley’s thoughtful, discursive style is full of sentences and paragraphs that you read over and over, captured by the power and beauty of his imagery.
Perhaps he knew, there in the grass by the chill waters, that he had before him an immense journey."Eiseley could stare at an ancient skull and intuit the intelligence behind it, but he could also bring his powers of observation to meetings with modern man, even when his life was in danger."I once sat, a prisoner, long ago, and watched a peasant soldier just recently equipped with a submachine gun swing the gun slowly into line with my body.
This book was fantastic; for the sheer fact that it is about evolution :) but also for the way that Eiseley tells us about evolution.
Granted, I read this kind of material all the time for my classes, but if the reader has some background in Anthropology the book is very easy to get though.
And Eiseley doesn’t just give us the facts of his day, but his thoughts as well and his experiences.
The book isn’t very long, but it doesn’t make for a quick read.
Reading this book makes you stop and rethink the way you picture the world and your place in it.
A lovely whimsical and deeply personal book discussing what nature means to a lifelong observer of nature and mankind. It has some of the same reverence and awe that fills the books of Rachel Carson or Aldo leopold. Some of the essays don't do anything for me but a few really remind me of some of my own memories of life in the cathedral of nature. I was surprised by how dated some of the pieces are. It is a reminder of how much knowledge has grown in the last few decades.
I read this over several months with a book club. Eisley's passion for natural history comes through on every page. This essay, now 60 years old, holds up admirably even if some of the evolutionary science is dated. This is not a textbook—it is a very personal essay about one man's love of nature. One chapter at a time it made for a good book club for our philosophically minded group, triggering conversations that ranged far and wide.
Many years after reading the collection "The Star Thrower", I finally got around to Eiseley's very first book, "The Immense Journey". First published in 1956, this is a collection of essays on life and man's relationship with the natural world. Each essay has its own profound lesson, and is written by a scientist who also happens to be a poet.
Achingly beautiful prose. It got a little racist in the middle there, and I think it is a good example of how far anthropology has come and where it came from. I spent the year looking for a book that would change me, and I think this was it. Though the science has been surpassed, this text is a beautiful meditation on the origin of life.
like a Carl Sagan + Walt Whitman combo. The writer meditates on various chapters in the earth's geological and evolutionary ages, delivered with Whitman's sense of oneness with nature and skillful, descriptive prose.
Full of contemplation on how humans have come to being. The author provides stories from his own life that fit into the reflection of our own lives. It is a good read although can be repetitious at times.
Reading Through:The SlitThe Flow Of The River
Wonderful collection of Nature Essays. One of my favorite authors in the Nature Writing genre.
