https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/830893.Simplify_Your_Life
She has 100 practical suggestions to simplify your hectic lifestyle.
Her thinking clarifies my thinking on why some people are sooo busy!
It makes me wonder if some people actually enjoy running around like a headless chicken!She explores each aspect of our lives and makes suggestions on how to get rid of the fluff, to give you more time to do the things you really want to do.Many of the ideas are things I am already doing, and maybe that's why I don't feel like I have a hectic life.
I really liked her ideas on simplifying your household and lifestyle.
I felt the ideas in this book were a little "out there". I'm all about simplifying but ideas like "get rid of your lawn" or "get rid of your phone" aren't really that practical. I also felt the the author was an old curmudgeon who got rid of all her stuff and never did anything fun, or spent any money in order to have a "simple" life. It just wasn't selling it for me.
Ouvi falar neste livro há alguns anos, numa reportagem sobre pessoas que tinham abdicado da maior parte dos seus bens para viver uma vida mais simples e mais desprendida.
Quis saber de que se tratava, numa sociedade puramente consumista e que se alimenta das aparências, a verdade é que dou muitas vezes por mim a olhar em volta e a pensar que nada disto faz sentido.
Temos de mais, complicamos de mais, somos felizes de menos.Este livro foi escrito nos anos 90 por isso está muito datado, faz-lhe falta uma abordagem séria ao fenómeno das redes sociais e tem vários exemplos que se aplicam sobretudo à sociedade americana, mas não deixa de ser uma leitura agradável.
The book reads like a collection of household tips, e.g., "Hints from Heloise".Truly simplifying your life takes a lot more thought and effort than the tips in this book would imply.
Real life simplification usually means painfully recognizing and kicking away many ego crutches, summoning up the discipline to let go of a lot in order to focus on what really matters.To her credit, the author has a significantly deeper take on this whole process in her later book, "Living the Simple Life".
I guess I was expecting more.
I read about this book on Zen Habits, which I love.
But given the amount of awesome advice out there readily available I just wasn't at all impressed by this.
Step 1 is "reduce the clutter in your life." How you ask?
By just getting rid of the clutter!
This might have been a good read when it was published (in 1994) but now I don't really see its relevance to me.
For instance St. James tells you to get rid of your car phone!
If you still have a car phone, for the love of God get rid of it!
100 tips for simplifying your life. This book was a little hit or miss for me, though there are plenty of really good tips as well. Part of it's problem is that's it's fairly dated (1994). I can't say I really learned anything new from its pages - I'm already either doing a lot of these things or am in the process of simplifying to that end. Basically, get rid of the clutter, ditch the back-ups, simplify your wardrobe, eliminate the excess activities, move to a smaller home, shop less. I think I'll keep making my bed though. lol
This is The go to book for simplicity written for the twitter generation (as opposed to Walden for people that have time), it will cause you question the rush in your life if you have not already done so and it will make you realise that "the value of anything is how much time you are willing to exchange for it"..... It is full of honest evaluations and suggestions like; sell the boat, get a smaller place, reduce the clutter in your life.... if we all valued the principals in this book the world would be a much better place.
More than a little bit vintage, most of what Elaine St. James presents is still quite useful.
The book does assume you have children, investments, and other signs of age or wealth.
I simply skipped what didn't apply, or what I felt was beyond dated, and feel satisfied with the (quick) read.
To reap the biggest benefits of this book, one will need to be in a position of thorough self-reflection and conscientiousness.
Akin to Voluntary Simplicity, the theory is that by paring down the excess, we actually feel richer.
I found her advice on cleaning inspiring too.
A clean house in under an hour?
I’ve already incorporated many of her ideas but did enjoy this old book. There’s always something to learn and I did remove two huge bags of old linens from my linen closet and took them to the goodwill and I will no longer even look at the vintage linens in shops bc I love them but then never use them. I now have room in my linen closet to see what’s there. I thought I didn’t have many pillow cases and I found about a dozen.
I thought this book was chock-full of great ideas and tips to not only to help simplify a hectic life, but also to learn to enjoy life more and make more time for yourself and your family.
Plus, it was consoling and confirming to read #98: Stop Making the Bed (which I found funny that it was in the "hard-core simplicity" section).Reading this book will give you a new sense of freedom and will help you realize that many things you think are important today (television shows, tons of accessories and makeup, minute-by-minute scheduled work tasks, etc.) really aren't necessary for a fulfilling life, career, or relationship.
Dated but interesting.
A little outdated but good advice on how to get rid of all the extra stuff we have in our life and to just enjoy the simple pleasures instead. Like a sunset, a good book, etc.
It’s fascinating to read a book on simplicity that was written in the 1990s. The simplicity movement feels so modern but reading this book reminded me that these ideas are timeless. I didn’t agree with all 100 ideas, of course, but much of her critique of modern excess was still 100 percent on-point 24 years later.
Just finished "Simplify Your Life: 100 Ways to Slow Down & Enjoy the Things That Really Matter" by Elaine St. James.
I particularly enjoyed the sections devoted to "Lifestyle" and "Work", as there were several new suggestions I plan on implementing in my own life.
Nothing new or original was recommended, and I disagreed with the author's recommendation on how to simplify your portfolio by investing in only a couple different stocks/mutual funds.
In my personal experience, I've found it more beneficial to diversify your investments so if one of your main stocks or mutual funds takes a loss, you're not SOL.
I got this years ago when I was doing something similar for a New Year's resolution.
I found it so easy to follow and so logical, that I have since then encorporated a lot of the recommendations into my everyday life.
It's written in simple one or two page chapters and you can do the chapters as you see fit in your life.
It starts off simply, in your own house, such as 'reduce the clutter,' 'cutting down the grocery shopping' and gets to 'get rid of your lawn.' It moves into life-style, finances, job, health, and personal life.
Easy to read, simple tips and you can get as simplistic as you want to.
Love these ideas. I think every one needs to stream line and simplify to save time for the things that matter most. I like the house hold ideas and especially the laundry ones. We are implementing these now! Best idea yet -take a vacation at home. Try it!
Don't we all wish we could simplify our lives? This woman did it and so can I. I'm positive. I just have to read this book a few more times. It's always in a prominent position on my shelf and its presence reiminds me of its good suggestions, many of which I adhere to.
Well I already do a lot of the things she suggests changing but I agree with a lot of her ideas and will probably read more by this author even though it was published in the early 90's.
Simple but straightforward book that has some nice ideas on how to simplify one's lives. Some advice are well-know, others not so much! It's worth a reading.
A home and life self-help book with personality and hilarious suggestions like "don't waste time on a lawn, plant ground cover."
A little outdated, but otherwise many useful ideas and tips.
I haven't read all 100 but once in a while I go through it to get more ideas. The ones I've read and applied so far have been helpful.I recommend this book to anyone.
I loved most of the suggestions. I can't quite bring myself to live some of them but I already live by many of them. This book helps me to keep my focus on what "things" are really important.
No fear, with the help of St. James, I’m rehabbing once again.
I’ll give you the book is a touch dated in terms of copyright, as well as the timing of her personal story.
If you do decide to read this treasure trove, St. James will teach you hands-on how to conquer the evergreen lessons—how to reclaim control of your money, your stuff, your time, and spend it doing the things that make life worth living to you.
Regardless of where you are on your journey, with St. James you will read and reap, promise.
As expected from a book from an earlier era, some of the tips/suggestions for simplifying your life are obviously not relevant anymore. Some suggestions will not work in today's day and age unless one is wealthy and has the luxury to do what one wants. But it certainly makes one consider things that one can do or should do to find some much needed sanctuary in the midst of our fast paced, complicated, always-on lives lived as much on social media as in the physical world.
The author gives 100 ways to simplify your life. Some of the suggestions about getting rid of excess seem practical and doable, where as a few seem radical, such as getting rid of your phone or car. Some of these suggestions are even outdated!! That being said, I did appreciate the reminders of ways that I can simplify everyday.
I read this book in my mid 20’s and was so surprised how much it all made sense to me. Elaine st James was a true minimalist before it was a cool thing to be. I still use many of her principles and have kept this original copy of my book for over 25 years. I re-read very couple years to reset my mind and behaviors when I’m feeling chaotic.
Had high hopes for this, but only managed to find a couple of ideas to implement. All of which are things i have worked on before, but can continue to improve. Unless this is the first book you are ever reading about simplifying your life, skip it and find a guide more suited to the specific things you are looking to work on instead of spending your time on this book and it's generalizations.
A classic. Written in the 1990s, before the Simple Living, Intentional Simplicity or Minimalism became popular. Her advices are sound and still valid and effective. Plus the oat muffin recipe is a keeper!
This book really shows that simplifying means different things to differwnt people. I did find a few tips that I hope to implement, and a lot of tips I actually already have been doing. Some tips did not seem simple to me. Also, alot of the tips and ideas were very outdated, so not really tips.
