https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1928301.Life_of_Christ
Last Tuesday morning, a 45-year old woman jumped from the 27th floor of the building where she used to work.
What did God think when the woman was about to jump?
I was reading this book that morning before going to the office.
So, I could not help but wonder where was God in all of those.Life of Christ by Giovanni Papini was first published in 1957.
I have been a Catholic since I was baptized seven months after I was born, but I could not write as brilliant as Papini in this book.I have been a practicing Catholic since the first time my mother brought me to church when I was a toddler.
Changed my life! I was an agnostic, I Became a Christian.
One of the most beautiful books I ever read about the life of Jesus Christ.
Not a theological work, which the author freely admits, but one that brings the life of Christ vividly before your eyes.
Christ would also throw off any material links, on which Thomas a Kempis would later say "Why do you value that so dear which you will hold such a short time?" (but that's another book).A must-read, not just for any christian, but for anyone who wishes to understand the great emotions that can come forth from faith.
A treasure in the library of any serious believer. I found this book while in the employment of an antiques dealer and have since purchased copies for myself and several family members. The details of his narrative and the imagery he uses are utterly touched with divine inspiration.
It shows that the man certainly underwent a conversion.For those familiar with the Gospel writings, there will be little here that is unknown in the narrative.
For those not familiar with the life of Jesus, this would make a fair introduction, not least because the passion Papini writes with is somewhat infections.
He firmly believed in theories of Jewish plots to commandeer the planet and it is a shame that he could not see past his prejudices to understand that Christ himself, as well as all the disciples he so passionately portrays, were very much Jewish.Having said that, this was a work which surprised me for its intensity and for how little known it is in Christian circles.
Livro muito denso, escrito de uma forma absolutamente entusiasta, como só seria capaz alguém que trocou de campo.
Isto é, que foi ateu e se tornou cristão, e católico.
Escrito por volta de 1919, provavelmente em ambiente de época, a linguagem é forte e exaltada contra os inimigos de Cristo.Se bem que diga algumas verdades, para mim, é entusiasmo a mais e o Amor pelos homens que deteta em cristo, parece-me não ter sobrado muito para o Autor quanto à sua opinião relativamente àqueles que não gostam de cristo, nomeadamente, salvo erro, quanto ao povo Judeu em geral, mesmo os atuais.Faz muitas citações da Bíblia, principalmente do Novo Testamento, claro, e utiliza alguns evangelhos apócrifos.
Papini is a great brain and a grand heart man. You could get this book and read it online for free from archive.org or google books. In this book we see a man who rejected God and opposed him coming back to Christ and writing his "testimony" of conversion from Atheism to Faith in Christ. It is one of the best works I have read on Christ. You can use it even in some parts for your prayer life. It is a gem of a book.
This is one of the books I have read on the life of Christ. It was written by a former Atheist who finally yielded to God's love in his own way.
more of the author's biography!
Miraculous
Já vai tão longe a minha passagem pelo seminário! Começo a duvidar da memória e dos factos que ela retém...
