https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21745.Without_Fail
4.75/5 “Why look for trouble?”“I'm not looking for trouble. I don't see it as trouble.” Alright, Lee Child had me glued to the pages in his engrossing suspense/thriller once again. I couldn't put this book down even for a minute!Jack Reacher is amazing as always and I admire him even more in this book. Man, he’s freaking clever! Thankfully, Neagley helped him with this investigation; otherwise things might turn out differently from what I expected. I can tell I really enjoyed seeing them working
Thankfully, Neagley helped him with this investigation; otherwise things might turn out differently from what I expected.
“I'm pretty good.”“No, you're not,” Reacher said.
“You're the best.
The absolute best there has ever been.
You're so damn good it's unbelievable.”“That's how you've got to think,” Neagley said.
“Is this military-style training?”“For me it was,” Neagley said.
There’s nothing more exciting and stunning than finding out the way Reacher managed the situation near the end of the book.
“I'm saying we're all good at something.
And that's what I'm good at.
Maybe it's the only thing I'm good at.
Does the SS put a man in the tower to prevent the possible use by an assassin.
Further, if you manage to become the lead on VP's secret service team, you are not wimpy, scared, easily intimidated woman.
The secret service lead, and current Reacher Lover, is about as easily defeated emotionally and mentally as a house of cards.
I wouldn't even mind that, except you don't make a woman who leads a secret service detail into that character.
In fact it grates on you - because it just doesn't fit.
Supposedly a strong and professional woman and yet going round and round in circles about an ex from years ago; At one point pretty much a full chapter was made from her blaming Reacher over her ex's death - it drove me insane and could have been completely skipped - not great at all!!!In fact, a fair amount of this book could have been skipped over.I did love Neagley as a character however, and I loved the relationship she has with Reacher - a full set of Reacher-style thrillers could probably be made from her and I would definitely pick them up.I have given this book 2 stars simply because it is a Jack Reacher book - and that in itself makes it worth them.
This book is perhaps the single best book showing Reacher and Neagley working as a team as investigators and thinkers, as an action duo and as friends.
The book shows the deep personal commitment Reacher and Neagley have for each other, and the poignant tension of Neagley's touch-phobia in their relationship.
Very poignant when it ends.They mystery of the identity of the bad guys is developed nicely, and Reacher's resolution-plan is done well.I feel this book is a turning point in Reacher's character.A moment of intimacy that I want to remember between a Reacher and Neagley.
Not usually." She moved her hand, very slowly.
Actually the latter is fairly understated in this story, and our hero does not end up taking on two, four or six mindless heavies in a brawl, which seems to be the fairly normal scenario.This time round there is a plot to assassinate the vice president elect, and Reacher and his female associate from the Army, Neagley are co-opted in by the Secret Service who are clearly struggling to bottom out the threat.
As a novelty, and for the first time I can remember post his army days, Reacher is actually employed in gainful employment as opposed to drifting around, righting wrongs in his own inimitable fashion.
6/10It seems this type of book works well in audio, even more so when it is abridged as it cuts out any extra waffle or character development which is needless in an action romp where the characters tend to be in it for one book only.Reacher is hired to kill someone of minor importance, the Vice President of the US.
Things move quickly as they should in this type of book.
The narrators voice for Reacher was a little grating after a while as it was like he was trying to be Clint Eastwood.
I bought this book when Cody's - historic, tragic Cody's as anyone in the Bay Area knows - was going out of business.
It was 40% percent off, and I was casting about for the type of book that would magically unlock the keys to moving plot forward and making pages turn since, ahem, I was having some slight trouble in that regard.
I don't know if I learned anything in the craft dept other than that Jack Reacher is an awesome badass, stone-cold professional, crafty and smart hero who actually made me care about the sights on sniper guns.
Ah, but he's a badass cipher.
Okay, another good read.
Jack is what some may call an "odd duck"...sorry for the technical terminology.
Yet he keeps ending up working with (untrustworthy and corrupt) government agencies and agents.It has to do with him being an incorruptible and bad-ass MP and in this case that his (late) brother was an incorruptible and intelligent Secret Service agent (sadly unlike Reacher he wasn't a bad-ass).
Any way...Reacher gets called in by his brother's old lover (who clearly wants [Jack] Reacher to be his brother) who's newly promoted in the Secret Service and has the VP's retail.
Lots of, what I would call, irrelevant information.I found the plot a bit unbelievable, the secret service couldn't protect the Vice President without Jack Reacher's help??
At the beginning when Jack was brought in to do a independent audit for the S.S., this sounded like it was feasible.
But when Jack found gaping holes in the S.S's procedures Jack was invited to help protect the V.P. The reason why the V.P's life was in danger was also a bit hard to believe.
But all in all I would have to say this has been my least favorite Jack Reacher to date.
He even has a partner, a slightly shorter, female version of himself: fit, good-looking, no social skills and absolutely deadly.The love interest is a paint-by-numbers set-up, designed to give Jack something to lose and someone to revenge.There's some fun procedural stuff, giving an insider's view of the Secret Service and some deductive reasoning that makes Reacher into a fierce, combat-seasoned, sniper-trained version of Sherlock Holmes.When Reacher finally works out the puzzle that has defeated the Secret Service and the FBI, the rationale for the hell that has been let loose is so unlikely that, at first, I thought it was a red herring.The book ends rather suddenly.
It felt like Child lost interest once the puzzle was solved but felt obliged to have Reacher show his predator side and tidy away all the loose ends at the same time.It's not a bad book.
I've enjoyed all the other ones I've read so far, and not a bad one among them, but this one so far in my opinion is the best!Jack Reacher is approached by US Secret Service Agent M.E.
(Mary Ellen) Froelich, who had been assigned to protect Brook Armstrong, the Vice-President elect.
Froelich has approached Reacher because someone is sending threatening messages to the VP, and she wants Reacher to speculate on how he would kill him if he wanted to.
I'm gradually reading the Jack Reacher books in order, and this is the sixth.
After making it through nearly half the extant books, I'd have to say that the other Jack series (Repairman Jack by F.
The previous Jack Reacher outing, Echo Burning, was a superb Texas gothic tale.
Second, if they're as competent as everyone in the story believes them to be, there's no way they'd telegraph their crimes the way they did.
I'm going to leave it at that so as not to spoil the story.
And Jack.
HiI really enjoy the Jack Reacher books, so far, with the Reacher books read, this is my second favourite behind One Shot. Although nice to see a regular character helping and returning in this book to work with Reacher.Always readable, gripping.As always he is the ladies man.very enjoyableregardsSean
My Rating: 4.3/5Great Novel just like the others. This is not as good as Echo Burning. A bit slower here and there. The twists at the endings are not as impressive as the other novels. But still a great novel. There is no bad stuff about it. So, yeah. See u guys in the next one.
یکی از کتابهای خوب مجموعه جک ریچر که طرفدارانش(از جمله خودم) رو کاملا راضی میکنه باید بگم برخلاف کتابهای قبلی که معمولا یه فرضیه واحد رو دنبال میکردند و تغییرات جزئی در اون میدادند فرضیه اصلی آدم خوبای کتاب چندین بار تغییر میکنه و مسیر اصلی داستان رو کمابیش تغییر میدهاین کتاب مثل تا پای مرگ و آخرین مهمان سفرهای زیادی داره و گاهی مواقع خیلی سریع لوکیشن داستان تغییر میکنهیک جاهایی توو کتاب(خیلی کم) تو ذوقم زد ولی اذیتم نکرد درکل اگر کتابهای قبلی جک ریچر رو دوست داشتید این کتاب رو هم دوست خواهید داشت
3  or 4 stars, can’t decide. Reacher didn’t beat up as many thugs as I would have liked, but I still enjoyed it.STORY BRIEF:Someone is threatening Armstrong, the newly elected Vice President. Froelich is in charge of the Secret Service team protecting him. She used to date Reacher’s brother who told her about Reacher’s talents and abilities. She hires Reacher to test her security and then to help with the current threat. Reacher hires one of his army buddies to help.REVIEWER’S OPINION:Another go
Reacher didn’t beat up as many thugs as I would have liked, but I still enjoyed it.STORY BRIEF:Someone is threatening Armstrong, the newly elected Vice President.
Reacher hires one of his army buddies to help.REVIEWER’S OPINION:Another good suspenseful exciting escape with tough guys’ tough guy Reacher.
It took a long time (most of the book) to solve the mystery and find the bad guys.
I think there were only two scenes where Reacher was beating up or shooting bad guys.
The Secret Service boss was angry because he had asked Reacher to keep the bad guy on the phone for as long as possible, but Reacher didn’t.
And as usual, I wasn’t disappointed.Jack Reacher appeals to the angry and vengeful core in all of us – there are no judges or juries in Reacher’s world, just violent retribution dispatched swiftly, without compunction or mercy and, in this case, unusually cold-bloodedly.The book was written right after the 9/11 tragedy and I think its influence can be seen in the way that in Without Fail it is acceptable for Reacher to assassinate the bad guys.
In many of the other Jack Reacher books that I’ve read, Reacher’s own life is at stake from quite early in the story, and so the ruthless killing of the bad guys is softened morally by his need to survive.
So far, Without Fail has been among my favorite books in the Reacher series mostly we got to know more about Joe, and Reacher's feelings after his death.
Reacher keeps everything in the vest and like a tough guy, he doesn't dwell too much on things he can't change but you would think that what happened with Joe would leave consequences.
In this book, we got to know what he thought and felt.
Unlike past books, Reacher had a partner that helped him take the bad guys down.
And for a change, Reacher was wearing more than one set of clothes during the whole book.
This was a fairly disappointing continuation of Jack Reacher's drifter ways for me. A threat exist against the Vice President and suddenly Jack finds himself employed to seek holes in the VP's security - that was about the jeist of the story.
Without Fail (Jack Reacher #6), Lee Childعنوان: سوء قصد - کتاب 06 - از سری جک ریچر؛ نویسنده: لی چایلد؛ مترجم: محمد عباس آبادی؛ تهران، تندیس، 1394؛ در 540 ص؛ شابک: 9786001821585؛
Without Fail‎ (Jack Reacher #6), Lee Childعنوان: سوء قصد - کتاب 06 - از سری جک ریچر؛ نویسنده: لی چایلد؛ مترجم: محمد عباس آبادی؛ تهران، تندیس، 1394؛ در 540 ص؛ شابک: 9786001821585؛
Audio book for my second time around this storyWithout a doubt I would have given this four stars when I read the book upon original release. I was just captured with Jack Reacher; he attack the bullies that we all encounter in our lives.Now, I am looking at the individual story and how Child delivers it. Outside of the information about my country and it's institutes I find little here.
Of course someone will, which is why me and my friends keep borrowing the paperbacks and passing it on to one another.Lee Child's Reacher books are plot driven and easy to read (perfect for long MRT rides), peppered with interesting military stuff (intriguing for clueless civilians like me).
When I read Lee Child's books, as in Without Fail, Reacher is undeniably more than just a hero in a novel; he's someone I've met before and is now writing me a long letter to let me know what mess he's getting himself into.I'm giving 2 stars for Without Fail, but 3 or 4 for these other Jack Reacher books: The Hard Way, Back Luck and Trouble.
Actual 3.5 Mary Ellen Frolic's dramatic death scene in Reacher's arms is one of the most touching in all of literature---- classic or contemporary ....I own this whole series and was listening to this one last night while planting blackberries
Going straight from Echo Burning into Without Fail meant I wasn’t as put off as I would usually be – I was on the verge of tears of joy for no longer being reminded of the heat in Texas, even if he did focus upon the cold weather a wee bit too much when he wanted to up the word count – but the fact remains: I do not consider the books to be the best written fiction on the market.Another issue is with the inconsistencies with the character of Jack Reacher.
This is one of the few Audiobook experiences I have and of course I went on to read the paperback copy of the book later on.In this instalment of the Jack Reacher Series, Jack is recruited to find any loopholes in the Vice President’s security coverage.
Also, this is one of the few books that actually explore Jack Reacher’s personal relationship.
With the lead agent of Secret Service being Joe Reacher’s ex, we get to explore a bit more about Joe and Jack’s relationship with him.If you love a thriller, then this is surely for you!http://www.ddsreviews.in/2016/09/with...
"Without Fail" is no exception, and a fast start -- a near-miss assassination attempt on Vice President-elect Armstrong -- soon leads the Secret Service to haul in Jack to act as a consultant and help them try to penetrate their security surrounding the veep so that they can plug any loopholes.
Using an old Army friend, tough gal Frances Neagley, and teaming up (after hours as well!) with M.E. Froelich, who heads the responsible SS security team, Reacher is soon puzzling over hand delivered messages and video tapes before the more proactive action gets things heated up.
I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all.
Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social conventions, cultural trappings, and whatever conventions and abstractions we allow into our mind in order to alleviate this core fact of our singularity (and aloneness)...the truth of it is not something Mr. Reacher denies.He embraces it.
Understands his philosophy implicitly, revels in his physical being,his conventions and values.
But this Harvard professor, Nobel winner admitted that she reads consumes loads of mysteries.
I like that glimpse into foreign territory.
He's now a vagrant by preference who can't help but find some worthwhile tussle in each book.Child creates clever plots that require a bit of thinking.
Just read one, start at the beginning.
I hope you'll like....
This series isn't for everyone, although Child's sales suggest otherwise.
All I know is that I often find that it's 2am and I've got to finish the book regardless of whether I've read it before.
Until the most recent releases, I like Lee Child's books featuring Lee Child.
In this story, the Secret Service calls in Reacher to tell them possible scenarios allegedly because Reacher was the best shooter the Army ever had.
The guy is a drifter, at this point he still hate the military, but let's call him in to tell us how to run a special ops.
For example, each time Reacher tells them where a sniper could be, e.g. the church tower, they do not put someone in the church tower to cover it.
Or perhaps it makes good reading for those who just like to read so-so action thrillers.
This Jack Reacher novel revolves around the political world in Washington - meh. Reacher and his old army pal Neagley are employed by the secret service to help Froelich, his brother's ex girlfriend, find out who is leaving threatening notes for the Vice President Elect.“That's how you've got to think,” Neagley said. “Pump yourself up. Get to the point where it's impossible to imagine that these jerky guys with their silly notes are going to get within a million miles of you.”Froelich smiled, briefly. “Is this military-style training?”“For me it was,” Neagley said. “Reacher was born thinking that way.”
"How would you like to assassinate the Vice President?" Reacher is contacted by the Veep's Secret Service lead agent, in hopes of finding some of the loopholes in the current coverage.
After showing the Service many of their faults, Reacher is pulled in to learn of a set of letters seeking to assassinate the Vice President elect.
Child at his best, fills the story with thrill, humour, and his own dose of politics.In yet another Reacher novel, the characters and settings change, leaving the narrative to keep the story moving quickly.
Barely makes the four-star rating because of Frances Neagley, who is both a smart, ruthless ass-kicker like Reacher as well as being an interesting character. I really wish Child would include more of her and less of the capable but ultimately forgettable girlfriend-sidekicks that populate the books.
It's been a while since I've read a Reacher, and I really enjoyed this one.Jack is working to prevent the assassination of the Vice President elect, and he's doing it a bit in the shadow of his deceased older brother.
always a plus.There is a lot of speculation throughout the book as to why the VP elect is a target.
During that speculation, an interesting theory was suggested, especially right now as our two US nominees have not yet named their running mates.
The suggestion is that the VP's primary job, aside from stepping up if the President gets incapacitated, is during the election campaign, from June to November.
Politics is fascinating.
Scary, but fascinating.
Another really good read. What a great series.
But do they not deserve the rule of law?
He is in perpetual motion and everywhere he goes, something bad happens, someone is murdered, and he has to kill the murderer.Sure, he’s good looking, he is fit, he was given military honours, he comes from a respectable family, he is a good lover, he is well-spoken, well-read, enjoys music, and is not a food, wine, or clothes snob.
Would they feel safer if they knew someone like him in real life?It seems to me that this is a caricature idolized by a society which believes that guns are necessary for ones’ personal safety.
She's very deliberately presented as a character with issues that aren't explained to us in this novel (she doesn't like to be touched – at all), I assume that means that she'll be making a reappearance in a later novel so Lee Child can develop her a little more.
The 6th novel in the Jack Reacher series was published in early 2002, but had to have been completed before the events of 9/11 because there is no mention of any heightened security anywhere.
That being stated, I was disappointed in one aspect of this novel; (SPOILER) Jack Reacher is recruited to work closely with the CIA's detail in charge of providing security for the Vice President-elect.
While reading this installment of the Jack Reacher series, I remarked to my fiancee that this just might be the best one so far.
The character of Reacher himself is more believable this time, too, actually making a few errors that cause a detriment to completion of the case.
Namely, Child doesn't seem to realize how downright creepy some of Reacher's sexual exploits are (this time it's the ex-girlfriend of his late brother).
Also, the secretive nature of Jack Reacher sometimes allows Child to make things up as he goes (Wow!
I think I'm sticking to my mid-read assessment: this is the best installment in this series so far.
but still a pretty good read.A Secret Service agent does the impossible-- she tracks down Jack Reacher (she used to date his brother Joe) She is the head of the security detail for the newly elected Vice-President and she asks Reacher to to examine if her operation is truly protecting the V.P. Reacher shows her some holes and then declares that he wants to know what the problem is...
Reacher steps in and begins to help solve the problem..
Worth reading..
Worth watching Reacher's brain work.
As soon as I finish the Clive Cussler I'm working on-- I'm on to the next Reacher novel.
Once again Jack Reacher finds himself trapped in a dangerous situation and again meeting people from past. Not only his own but from his brother's too.This is typical of Lee Child book where in the villains are hidden till the last act/chapter and then revealed but none the less its a rollercoaster of a book which is action filled and fun.Jack Reacher never be beaten whether in a fight or the fun quotient.
I picked up this book at a charity shop and didn't realise it was the 6th book in a series.
I was initially a little disappointed in the book as I felt the first couple of hundred pages kept building the suspense but then nothing actually happened and the pacing of the story seemed a bit off.
I think it was a little far fetched on who the bad guys turned out to be and why they were doing it but that didn't detract from my interest in the story.
It has made me want to try the first couple of books in the series.

For basically being homeless and unemployed Jack always seems to find himself in tense life and world changing situations.
As ex military with high clearance levels he is sought after by the leader of the Secret Service detail tasked with protecting the vice-president elect from assassination.
There have been viable threats against the vp and Jack is asked to "assassinate" him.
In other words to pretend to be someone out to kill the vp and find the holes in his protection detail.Meanwhile there are people out to derail Jacks efforts and not only kill the vp but also Jack himself.Fast paced as always.
The action is fairly slow at first - it seems to take ages to get to the actual point where Jack decides to act decisively and take the bad guys out of the picture for good, lending credence to what another reviewer has said of Child's books, i.e. that's he's actually paid by the word and therefore takes a very long time to get there).
This time I found that we both have a penchant for long coats (in his words "A coat should be like a good lawyer - it should cover your ass").
He is tracked down by his deceased brother's former colleague in the Secret Service (and ex-girlfriend) because she wants him to take a run at the security around the Vice President-elect in order to test it.It turns out there is a serious plot to kill the Vice President-elect and Reacher and a partner he has brought in to help join in to hunt for the plotters.This is a typical Reacher book - lots of snide comments, fistfights and even gunplay.
The part where he is brought in by the Secret Service is a stretch, but Lee Child makes it palatable.The audiobook is read by veteran reader Dick Hill.
