https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4413307-the-scarlet-citadel
Lana Kane, Malory Archer, Cheryl Tunt, Ray Gillette, Cyril Figgis, Pam Poovey, Dr. Krieger and Sterling Archer sit in Malory’s office, drinking and discussing Robert E.
Howard’s 1933 Conan short story “The Scarlet Citadel”Ray: He had a five foot long broadsword.Lana: Er, phrasing.Sterling: I mean COME ON!
It’s freaking CONAN the FREAKING BARBARIAN – even more, in this one he’s King of Aquilonia.Malory: Remind me again of why we’re discussing a 70 plus year old fantasy short story?Pam: I thought you liked 70 year old short stuff?Malory: And what is that supposed to mean, Ms.
Conquering the kingdom of Aquilonia brings no rest to Conan as betrayal, treachery and warfare abounds in this second short story originally penned by Howard in 1933.
One thing I'm thoroughly enjoying about these classic pulp fantasy fiction stories is the way they defy expectations.
The prose is undeniably different, and plot movement often didn't look the way it does now, with its constant movement and focus on action that we see in so many works of fiction today.
In the two Conan stories I've read thus far, Howard has defied that expectation entirely.
One unexpected surprise is the amount of cosmic horror elements that Howard works into Conan's world.
This was another great Conan story, more complex than The Phoenix on the Sword. There is a battle described, and the consequences of treachery are explained more. There were more sorcery elements involved than with The Phoenix on the Sword.The prose was fantastic as well. Some of the writing makes very good writing look stale: ‘As a thunderbolt strikes, Conan struck, hurtling through the ranks by sheer power and velocity’.I must say, despite my observation that Conan stories tend to follow a predictable formula, they are getting better and are some of my most favourite sword-and-sorcery tales.
A man's man type of book. Bring out the beast and fight back to reclaim what you lost. Indiana Jones would wet his pants if he had to face the snake Conan deal with.
There his triumphant captors give him the choice of exile or death, to which he responds, in typical fury, "Free my hands and I'll varnish this floor with your brains!"Whilst word of his death reaches his people and the plans of his foes prepare the ground for them to ride into Aquilonia and claim their prize, Conan is left alone in those nameless pits below the citadel, enchained and the intended prey of a venomous eighty-foot long snake, 'Satha, the Old One, chiefest of Tsotha's pets'.A somewhat jarring interlude of racist curses aside (and to be fair, they are bandied about by both black and white characters), 'The Scarlet Citadel' is a rollicking ride of a short story, as weird and wonderful as any in the series.
Another wonderful tale of standing up and fighting for what's right. The story rips along at a fantastic pace. If anything, possibly a little too fast. The last chapter seemed a little rushed, hence only 4 stars. I love how well REH is able to express his world building in so few pages, just by giving hints or making brief references to past events. Conan is the only well developed character, though Tshotha wasn't badly done. Most of the rest barely had physical descriptions to go along with their short involvements to the plot.
The story has some of Howard's best world building. There's plenty of violence and plenty of darkness. The expected Conan feline and serpent references make their appearances, as do a giant snake and a bit of sorcery to move things along. As usual, Robert E. Howard's pacing and use of rhetoric device to urge the reader forward is in full force.
Much darker and grittier in theme than the first story. I enjoyed this one too, though maybe not quite as much as the first.
Intense and brutal, with mysterious sorcery and an enraged Conan to hype it up. Finishes with a huge and visceral clash with a mountain’s worth of bodies left in the wake.
Alguns fragments molt identificables d'aquí van servir per fer la primera peli (la serp, per exemple).
A rolling adventure of Conan and perilous sorcery.
Men said that he had a whole library of dark works bound in skin flayed from living human victims, and that in nameless pits below the hill whereon his palace sat, he trafficked with the powers of darkness, trading screaming girl slaves for unholy secrets." This fantastic short story contains a soul-torturing plant whose roots are set in Hell and a wizard named Pelias that Conan rescues while in the pits below the Tsotha's citadel.I used this story as part of a D&D adventure.
The eunuch's feet stumbled among his entrails as he worked the bolt, moving like a brainless automaton.
Nothing deep here in this novella from the early thirties, at all.
Just colorful action-packed stuff and great world-building.
Not a deep theme or multi-faceted character in sight, and all the more satisfying for that.
The middle third felt more like a synopsiss; oddly the novella could have easily been stretched to a novel.
As it is, a King is captured, a kingdom invaded, a coup d'etat undertaken, overthrown, a revolution started and defeated, and the siege of a city by a 40 000 plus army broken --all in less than a week in story-time.
Stretching the plausibility factor, I suppose, but fuck it.
Full of intrigue, monsters, a giant snake and a battle against overwhelming odds. King Conan's kingdom has been taken by a magician in concert with a harsh tyrant seeking a throne. Conan must free himself from the dungeons of foul creatures, mass a small army and smash the pretenders to his kingdom, and he doe this with sword and a sorcerer of his own. However, we learn than Conan much prefers a sword that pieces flesh over the dark arts. This was an exciting thrill read.
So far this series is all a bit dark. Lots of violence with some sorcery round the edges, but no redemptive elements. I was hopeful for a few moments when Conan rescues a stranger and seems to find a friend, but he turns out to be another slightly cracked dark sorcerer, and Conan decides he is better off without him.
This is the second or third time I read this story. Solid Howard Conan. If any complaint, the events are rushed and many times a bit forced, but a great story overall.
This was an awesome tale of King Conan and his escape from a treacherous Wizard, who's intentions were to seize Aqualonia. It was just a really good time!
Highly enjoyable romp, giant snakes, living poisonous plants, and of course our hero battling against betrayal of allies to save his lands.
Intense imagery and very deep lore.
კარგია, "თამარას ქუჩა" საინტერესო იყო :დთუმცა, საწყის მოთხრობებში პირდაპირ შუახნის კონანის გამოჩენა ცოტა უცნაურია მაინც.
Another exciting Conan story!
