https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128048.Carry_On_Mr_Bowditch
The absolutely enthralling story of Nat Bowditch bursts at the seams with starkly real emotion.
So often along the path down which the reader is led, the steps are devastatingly heartbreaking, and to see what terrible ordeals Nat Bowditch had to live through in his career and personal life is both staggering and inspiring.
No biography other than Cornelia Meigs's "Invincible Louisa" ever was so painfully touching and profoundly moving, in my view, and I followed closely and with great emotional investment the story of Mr. Bowditch every moment, feeling both his massive heartaches and his jubilant rejoicing very deeply.
RTC!
By looking at the characters, plot, and historical accuracy, we can determine if Carry On, Mr. Bowditch is a worthwhile read.This book featured many characters.
However, many of the characters were interesting and a few were memorable.This is primarily the story of Nat’s life from the age of six to an important accomplishment which he made, probably in his late thirties.
I was also impressed with the attention to detail on all of Nat’s research and on navigation.We can now determine that Carry On, Mr. Bowditch is a fairly worthwhile read having looked at the characters, plot, and historical accuracy.
I read this book for school, I believe, and I have reread it several times. I always loved Nat, from the small boy to his married years. I thought the sailors with whom he sailed were amusing several times. I loved his thinking, but I didn't agree with his infatuation with math. There are several things I would like to mention, but they would contain spoilers. So, I'll just end by saying that I didn't like the way everyone seemed to die. This is a very appropriate book for almost all ages, and I with I had read it sooner.

And of course his mastery of those subjects enabled him to change the course of nautical and navigation history.To be honest, I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this book.
Turns out, the true story of Nat Bowditch was a fascinating one, from the time he bought his first "expectation" from a privateer in his hometown of Salem, to his being apprenticed to a ship chandler as a bookkeeper, to his not only learning to be a sailor, but even writing an entire navigation manual that has been expanded and is still in use by the United States Navy even to this day.
I don't recommend this book to everyone; not everyone appreciates history.
My favorite juvenile fiction work ever, this book tells the inspirational story of a bright young boy who seems to have all his dreams dashed as he grows up. But by "sailing by the ash breeze" and pursuing his intellectual passions whenever he has a spare moment, he becomes one of the most famous marine navigation experts of all time and saves countless lives as a result of his work. No better book can be given to a young person who shows real intellectual potential, especially in math and science.
Loved it. I was supposed to be listening while I worked (found a computer-read version online...can't recommend that as the most aesthetically pleasing way to consume), but I didn't get much done because I was too gripped by the story. Listened all the way through in one sitting.
His mathematical ed was so advanced that he needed no training in accounting in the boat supply warehouse.
All of this while enduring the loss of loved ones at sea and at home.He eventually discovered a new way to sight the moon, even when it could not be seen, using a 3 star sighting around the moon, then he rewrote the navigational manual that is still used today.Wowser!!I would say that today's early education is lacking and the belief that one MUST go to university to get a "higher" education is a fallacy.
I was really surprised by this book.The main character is such a great example of hard work and self-learning.
He has a lot of 'bad luck' along the way, but also a lot of people who truly love this humble, industrious man, people who do their best to help him along.The author did an excellent job developing the characters and moving the action along.My husband just finished reading this to the kids and they all loved it.
I plan on having them read it when they're older as well.A valuable addition to any home library and a wonderful man to learn from.
4.75 stars rounded upNathaniel Bowditch was from a long line of ship captains but when Nat's father lost his ship, he lost his "tuck." Young Nat has a plan to turn his family fortunes around.
The author learned so much just to write this book.
I really connected to Nat because I have a quick brain too and feel like kicking a chair when someone can't keep up but unlike Nat I can't understand math.
I walked the same streets Nathaniel did and learned about the history of Salem.
Unfortunately many of the maritime museum exhibits were closed so I must return to learn more about the background of this story.
My favorite part of the book is when Mr. Bowditch begins teaching his fellow shipmates how to do complicated mathematics and navigation.
My favorite quote from the book, "Your Brain is too fast, so you stumble on other people's dumbness like a chair in the dark...And you want to kick something." A girl friend was expressing to Nathaniel what it was like when he got impatient because someone was not learning something as fast as he could.
So, I'm ashamed to say when I picked up this book that I had no clue that Nathaniel Bowditch was a real person.
But I'd assumed that it was simply a historical fiction, much like Johnny Tremain.
Now, though, I'm interested in learning more about Mr. Bowditch's life after his first voyage as captain.The book is well written, in a style that will be easy for children to grasp and learn from.
I enjoyed the personalization of the historical figures being described and felt like I knew them better for reading it.
Definitely something I will continue to have my children read in upper elementary and junior high.
There is a chapter called "Sailing by Ash Wind" and it sums up the moral of the story for me.
The explanation is that when the ship is dead in the water with no wind for the sails to catch, you have to use the oars which were made of ash wood as well as throw your anchor out and pull the boat to it and repeat until you are finally able to regain the wind.Nathanial Bowditch is an intelligent boy surrounded by hardship yet overcomes by determination and hard work.
Oh, my. This book is six stars out of five.
A fantastic story whose theme is perseverance and making the best of terrible circumstances. It took us a sweet forever to finish this one (first on audio then read aloud) but we are the better for it. The world of sailors and sailing and math and ships and science and education all wrapped into the compelling story of a brilliant little boy, who was handed challenge after challenge and defeat and discouragement but rose above. We'll remember this one for a long time.
My mom made me read this, so it's going under "school" and I'm not rating it. Nathaniel Bowditch was a fascinating man in some aspects, but alas, sea navigation isn't something I typically want to read about overall.
Not all of his learning comes from books.
There are people in his life whom he cultivates relationships with learning all he can through conversations.
He learns about sailing, about guns, and how to get along with all sorts of people.
After finding hundreds if not thousands of mistakes in a navigation guide--in the tables--he thinks about writing his own book one day.
He wasn't as fond of people finding them impossible to predict and understand.
He was amazingly gifted and he learned how to teach others in a way they could understand.
He wasn't naturally patient--who is?--but he worked hard at his people skills.
I also loved how he taught himself things instead of moping that he couldn’t go to school.As for other characters...Captain Prince was the most gruff-yet-endearing character I've read in a long time.
Every time Nat did something that shocked him, he simply said, "Carry on, Mr. Bowditch" and that was that until that very thing Nat had done, shocked someone else.
When that happened, Captain Prince acted like a proud father and discussed that shocking thing calmly as if he’d never been shocked by it himself!While we’re discussing other characters, just a warning.
This book reminded me about how I felt about reading Johnny Tremain as a kid. I loved that book then and I loved this one now. I think it would have been fun to read them back to back. Both books cover similar time periods, are written at similar reading levels and have similar main characters. I loved the example that the main character sets for self educating. I loved the example he set for the value of hard work and discipline. I also love the women of the story and their quirky insight!
Listening to the audio in the car..krb 1/19/16Wonderful book!! Loved learning all the nautical lingo and the way that Nat taught himself other languages by using the bible..krb 2/8/16 Definitely a book to read/listen to again and again.
What a pleasant surprise to finish this page turning adventure biography! I didn't expect to love it as I was previewing it for a potential family read a loud. Not only did I learn much about sailing and navigation, but I found myself immersed in Nat's adventures as if he were my friend.
I have read this book a couple times before, but it's still one of my favorite books. I love the characters, plot, and everything in it. Also, if any writer wants to know how to use swear words without actually using them, this is a good example to look at.
I love the story of Nat Bowditch. He had nothing but tests and trials during his early life but he turned them into a great wealth of knowledge with he used to build up other people and save countless lives.
simple story and writing style, but i loved it! and he was a REAL guy?! i didn't know that as i was reading. also, this particular cover makes him look hot. i was picturing someone a little less studly.
I'd give this book more stars if I could. I was inspired by Bowditch's hunger for knowledge and his confidence because of it. Such a feel good book.
Great story! Incredible character!
My 9-year old said 4.5 stars b/c too many people died; otherwise she would have given it 5 stars.
Workmanlike presentation. 80% dialogue. Important deaths disposed of in a sentence or two.
There is something strangely compelling about Nat Bowditch's story.
I'm not even sure if it's the way the book is written, or the characters, or the adventures of the sea.
Maybe it's just the fact that it's a true story about a smart kid who worked hard and wasn't above using his intelligence to teach and help others.
Of course the best part is how he taught himself both Latin and French before he was twenty.
And the sorrow doesn't go on for pages like some books do--Nat pulls himself up and moves on.
