https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95044.In_His_Own_Write
If you're a John Lennon fan, that is- or, at least, you have a good sense of humor and aren't very particular in your literary sense.
I'm a huge Beatles fan, and find John Lennon to have been one of the cleverest men, so I found this book clever.
If you've never heard of John Lennon (unlikely) and you read this book, you'll probably think that a man who wasn't quite right in his mind wrote this book, and forgot to check for spelling mistakes too.
Since I have heard of John Lennon though, I see his wit and humor in the book.
I am a John Lennon fan... but this is complete crap.If you think that this book is any good, I bet you like the cut and colour of the Emporers New Clothes too.

It helps disguise minor typos (like "it's" instead of "its" in the above poem).
"That's not a typo, man.
You just don't get it!" Sure, John...
This would have been during the height of Beatlemania, and it must have surely turned a few heads.
People will say 'This book is absolute crap!'...They are dead wrong! They obviously have a short attention spam because this book is so meaningful! If you are willing to read this book, i suggest to take your time and read it slowly, if you don't, you will find yourself putting the book down after the very first poem! Make sure you spend time to think deeply about every word, you will find it much more enjoyable! i understand that not many people understand Liverpudlian but that is no excuse to let down such a great and meaningful song writer!
I read this title in a paperback "two-fer" edition back in the early 1990s.
It was sandwiched together with Lennon's other Beatles-era book, A SPANIARD IN THE WORKS.
Yoko, ever anxious to turn a buck off Lennon's legacy, has since reissued the two collections of nonsense verse and stories separately, in facsimile first-edition hardcovers.
The selections here can be especially fun if read aloud.
IN HIS OWN WRITE, and its companion A SPANIARD IN THE WORKS, are good fun for a rainy afternoon---but best taken in small doses.Lennon had a deft pen.
I think the part I liked most about this little...whatever you'll call it, was Paul's (#pol, again for the Tumblr reference) introduction.
I'm sure somewhere there's a professor teaching this to a classroom full of bright-eyed creative writing freshmen who are buying the BS of "exploring your mind" and "letting go of all thoughts" but I think Paul was right, you should just take it as it is.
It's John putting together a bunch of silly little stories, throwing in some drawings and capitalizing on his Beatle fame by selling a book.
This is worth reading purely because it’s written by John Lennon and so it’s therefore somewhat historically relevant because of that. It’s basically a collection of psychedelic short stories and nonsense poetry, and as such as it’s hard to rate. It is what it is, you know? It’s alright and readable enough.
Brilliant. Reading this book makes me understand more how he could have written 'I Am The Walrus'.
ცოტა უცნაური წიგნი როა ამას ვერავინ უარყოფს.დამუღამება რო უნდა და ისე შეიძლება ერთ დიდ უაზრობად მოგვეჩვენოს, ვერც ამას.
მაგრამ მგონია, რომ ვინც იცნობს ლენონის პიროვნებასა და შემოქმედებას, ვისაც ნანახი აქვს Yellow submarine, უსმენს არა მხოლოდ ბითლზს, არამედ "სერჟანტი პეპერსის მარტოსულ გულთა კლუბის" ბენდს, ვინც იცის, რომ ჯონი არა მხოლოდ აღიარებული ხელოვანი, არამედ ვალრუსიც იყო, იმათმა წესით დანარჩენებზე უკეთ უნდა გაიგონ აქ დაწერილი.წიგნის მთლიანი ნარატივი ფსიქოდელია და აბსურდის თეატრია.
ამ დაუსრულებელ, არაადეკვატურ ტექსტების კასკადში ჩანს მთელი ადამიანური კომედია და ჩემი აზრით სწორედ ეს აქცევს წიგნს "სასიცილხარხაროდ".
ერთი სიტყვით- თუ გაერთობით, შესანიშნავია, თუ არ მოგეწონათ, არც ამას უშავს რამე, ბოლოს და ბოლოს, ჯონი ისე წერდა, როგორც ეწერებოდა.
At its very best ("Randolph's Party"), the writing is almost Joycean: names of characters continuously shift, unconventional punctuation suggests a grammar of consciousness, the 'nonsense' writing brings layers of meaning and ambiguity to what is being recounted, and the sheer sense of play is unmistakable.The "stories" are all very short, few are over a page long; and Lennon clearly didn't have the patience to think out an actual story structure, leading to very abrupt endings for nearly every piece.
This is a book she owned as a girl, and I like to read, and Lennon was a great mind, and I was happy to give it a shot!
As a matter of fact, I am sure I might recognize some of it if I came from his geographic/chronological time...
Fun, and I read the whole thing, but I am afraid that as a premise they are very timely and geographically specific, and unfortunately for my opinion, also a little unoriginal in scope and execution.
This book is likely to go over the heads of many readers and surely under the head of scholars and serious readers but for those, such as myself, that understand what Lennon is doing with his writing the reading experience is unparalleled. I can honestly say that I have never read a book that has made me laugh out loud as many times as this one, in fact I can't recall many other books that have made me laugh at all. Lennon's experimentation with the English language is enviable and influential on my own writing.
Hey...forgot this one. I surely must have read this back in the swinging sixties man. No flies on Frank. If you visit John's home in Menlove Avenue, go upstairs into his little bedroom, and there on the window ledge is a book of Lewis Carroll's nonsense. Say no more."Oh what fun it'll be, when they see me through the glass in here, and can't get at me!"(Through The Looking Glass & What Alice Found There. Lewis Carroll.)
I loved it, but it's certainly not for everyone. the whole book is back to front, nonsensical, whimsy wordplay, which I find delightful, but others may feel they're wasting their time. It's fun to read, and strangely reminiscint of Roald Dahl, in my opinion.
I bought this book when it first came out and love Lennon's quirky, oft' bizarre sense of humor. Some pieces have made me laugh so hard... well, great stuff from my favorite Beatle, singer/songwriter & author.
oh so long ago.
This book changed my life.
Çok kısa bir kitap...Ama çok tatlı çizimler, anlamlı-anlamsız anektodlarla dolu aynı zamanda. Yumuşak G yayınları da sıra dışı bir yayın eviymiş cidden. (Kitap 1997 basımı)
John Lennon clearly liked Lewis Carroll and Edward Lear, and it shows in this amusing and intelligent book of short stories, which are collectively a delightful example of wordplay.
9/10
A really strange book
"What I learned from this book"---Writing as a Liberating Activity
Still, the poems, stories and plays of baby eating, a man who chops off his hand so he can replace it with a hook (his life long dream,) a guy who gets killed by his friends for Christmas, casual spouse murder, talking tumors and, most terrifying of all, dentistry, are grimly amusing if you can grit your teeth through the godawful "wordsmithing." In some ways, Lennon's humor is like a much darker precursor to Monty Python - Yet the book just feels shoddy and underdone.
If Lennon had worked harder on this, it could have been a four star book.
I first read Lennon's books not long after his death.
(The book was impossible to find before that.
After his death -- lo and behold, it's everywhere) I was surprised and puzzled.
I’d never read anything like this.
Now that I’m a bit older (well, a lot older) I enjoy the nonsense of Carroll and Lear and Joyce.
The stories/poems have a sophomoric darkness.
Some are good like No Flies on Frank.
Most are just okay.
But there is a kernel of genius in them and I wonder what he might have done had he continued to write and really focused his attention.
This inspires me to write nonsensical proses that plays with spellings. It's joyful to read, and must have been heck of a fun to write. It's ironic because the humor is dark. It's so short I felt like it ended too soon. Like this is way too much fun to stop. That is for 4 star. Felt like Paul's intro at the beginning captures it best, some will throw it aside cuz it makes no sense, some will probably search for hidden meaning. Maybe I will on second read. For now it's funny, and that is enough : )
My question is the same as Paul's -- "is he deep?" Well John is anything but ordinary (that's why he is a legend). Writings I genuinely liked (because, made sense): I sat belonely and No flies on Frank. What a cute book to take the 100th spot on my Goodreads read list! :)
Udder trash to say the least. The only thing I can think of is that Lennon had no intention of taking writing seriously and decided to throw this out there to see who or what bites. The only piece that brought interest to me was McCartney's intro. Other than that, its just rambling.
The Master himself wrote this novel in the year of '64. James Joyce-like and a bit of stream of consciousness.Read it only if you don't take yourself seriously but take your work quite seriously.... x)
Total nonsense put in a creative and genius way! A very enjoyable book! I highly recommend it for those who are die hard Beatles and John Lennon fans!
