https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1491024.Bat_Wing
I tip my hat to the fine folks at Project Gutenberg: virtually every title I have or will be reading in the near future comes from them.Bat-Wing is the second novel published (by a month or so, but the first for the character) starring Mr. Paul Harley, private investigator.
In classical English detective style, Harley understands what others see but do not and gets to the truth beneath a bitter act of vengeance.This is probably the better written and more interesting of the two Harley novels.
Oh, and it has the three “Vs”: Voodoo, Vengeance, and Vampire Bats!Three and one-half (3.5) well-earned Stars.You can get this book for free from the Gutenberg Project site.
#94 - 2010"OFTEN enough my memory has recaptured that moment in Paul Harley's office, when Harley, myself, and the tall Spaniard stood looking down at the bat wing lying upon the blotting pad."Sax Rohmer, better known as the creator of Fu Manchu, has a cracking good yarn in this tale of the American detective who is asked to unravel a voodoo mystery threatening Colonel Menendez.
Traveling to Menendez's home in England, the plot just keeps getting thicker as we meet the members of his household, suspicious neighbors, and see signs of the bat everywhere we turn.I began listening to this on LibriVox last summer and dropped it when I got too busy.
(From my Amazon.com review):Early 20th Century Sensation NovelThere's a lot more to Sax Rohmer than his Fu Manchu novels.
These novels, despite being dated and notoriously full of racial stereotypes, fairly pop off the page.
Rohmer knew how to spin a yarn, and Bat Wing is no exception.
Together they unravel the mystery, encountering voodoo rites, vampire bats, an Edgar Allen Poe-esque writer, and other fantastic developmentss en route to the sensational ending.
I enjoyed Bat Wing for what it was: a pulp era mystery with overtones of voodoo, Sherlock Holmes, and Edgar Allan Poe. It's pretty slow reading, however. If you like pulp fiction, and especially if you like Sax Rohmer, then give Bat Wing a try. I'd read it again someday.
A good Sax Rohmer yarn, voodoo in a small English village. However I prefer Rohmer more when the mystic elements in his books are real. Although the book is better written than many of his works it is a little slow, but with admittedly a great start and conclusion.
I have fondness for adventure and detective fiction from this era. I am more familiar with this author's Fu Manchu stories, but this tale was thoroughly enjoyable. It is also fun to go back and read just to get the feel for how the genre has changed.
A 1920's detective story introducing Paul Harley as the premier private criminal investigator in London.
Paul Harley is clearly a copycat character, and he is like Deadpool; he knows that he is a fictional character and mentions often that he is just a poor substitute for Edgar Allen Poe's Auguste Dupin.
They are extremely aware of their personal honor, and the fact that Menendez and others know more than they will tell offend them mightily.
Only because Menendez claims the secrets themselves are a matter of honor can placate them.A really nice period piece, I will be reading more of Paul Harley.

Four stars is perhaps a bit too much but Bat-Wing is nevertheless an entertaining read. As a mystery it is less a whodunnit and more seeing how the author once laying out all the edges of the jigsaw puzzle fills in the middle. And the filling in is the fun here with aristocratic Spaniards, dramatic French, Englishmen with extra starch in their upper lips, and, yes, some far less appealing stereotyping of non-Europeans. Recommended for a rainy day that needs a mystery and a pot of tea.
Fun, though tedious at times, a murder mystery where the murder doesn't take place until the book is already half finished. I confess I started the novel under the assumption there was a supernatural element to the mystery, but there really wasn't. Voodoo symbolism does factor into the story, but there's no spells, no magic, no sorcery. Just dread, murder, and mystery, in that order.
A good read, not as exciting as the Fu Manchu books, but pleasant enough for casual reading. Nice (if a bit transparent) plot twist at the end...
older style of pulp, great ending.
Bat Wing is a nicely done procedural novel that includes hints of voodoo and Sherlock Holmes. The mystery is complex and the clues misleading. A good story with an unexpected perpetrator.The LibriVox recording by Mark Nelson is excellent.
Colonel Menendez has enemies and in the midst of obeah, voodoo, vampirism, and a murder, detective Paul Harley and his friend Knox try to solve the mystery...
Another libricox.org podcast. Nice voodoo tale. Found out the source of obi/obeah. As in Obi-Wan Kenobi?
This book features a Sherlock Holmes-like detective and his sidekick. Neither of them are very interesting.
Free etext at Gutenberg.org Free Audio at librivox.orgClassic
read some time in 1990
A complex mystery from the turn of the last century, but without the quota of scary foreigners, despite the bat wing of the title.
Such a pleasure to get back to a good old pulp detective tale from Sax Rohmer. Wonderful, gripping read.
