https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6400487-the-doings-of-raffles-haw
Raffles Haw, a man who wanted only to do good in the world.
He was brilliant enough to learn a way to make a great deal of money, and wanted nothing more than to use that money to better things for those less fortunate.
It seems that there are people who, instead of using their good fortune to further themselves, choose to sit back and hope for a second hand up.
Haws discovers that his generosity has made those he helped lazy and entitled, rather than grateful.
Worse, it has caused those he trusted and loved to deceive him in ways that ultimately break his heart.
THE DOINGS OF RAFFLES HAW. (1891). Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. ***. This was a short novel by Doyle, dashed off to make enough money to finance his trip to Vienna to attend an “eye” symposium. Remember: Doyle was a practicing opthamologist at the time. The story is trivial. A rich man arrives in a small village in England and procedes to build a multistory building to house his collection of riches – jewels, paintings, books, and other objects. The first person he meets is a young woman who is one o
Remember: Doyle was a practicing opthamologist at the time.
The first person he meets is a young woman who is one of the villagers, hence poor with no prospects.
She doesn’t know of his wealth, so she acts natural and the rich guy, Raffles Haw, falls in love with her.
He insinuates himself into the poor family and also becomes the benefactor of the other villagers through his great wealth.
There is an afterword by John Bennett Shaw, a Doyle scholar and collector of his works.
“Feeble” it may be, but it still provides a good read, and certainly it must have some importance in the development of the science fiction genre.
The story is difficult to classify as it had elements of science fiction in it (alchemy and machines that dispensed coffee or wine at the press of a button and floors that receded into a pit), as well as romance, mystery and a moral theme.
The science fiction element added to it made it similar in style to Robert Louis Stevenson's The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde - it was similarly short as well - 147 pages of larger print making it a quick read in a couple of hours.
Raffles Haw is the new guy in town and the whole population is atwitter with gossip.
Robert and Laura are his nearest neighbors and are soon delighted to meet this eccentric new addition to the small English town.When the brother and sister pair find out how filthy rich Haw is they swear to remain untouched by his wealth.
What would you do?This is an interesting short read (free on Kindle) about the the love of money and how that love can corrupt a soul.
If you like Doyle and Victorian literature, it's a fun read.Even though you know how it's all going to end.
A mysterious rich man, a desperate father, an ambitious daughter and the semi-detached and naive hero form the cast of this somewhat surprising Doyle piece. It has mystery, metallurgy and momentum. It is shorter than many of Doyle's other writings so it is a fairly quick read but certainly captures the attention of the reader. On some levels, the beginning makes you thin you are reading a Victorian romance before you realize that Doyle's sense of intrigue has been there all along.
This is another gem that has been overshadowed by Sherlock. It is a tale of a young scientist who discovers a key to great wealth, and how the wealth affects both the scientist and those around him.
A light read. Money corrupts people in different ways. What I found interesting was the thought of what would happen if gold suddenly became as common as corn.
Fun. As the afterword say, it "is a moral tale, a parable."
Here my impressions...http://carmenyamigos.blogspot.com.es/...
An interesting short story about the inevitable draw of money.
Неплохое произведение о том, что делают легкие деньги с людьми.
A story about the effect wealth can have on people.
