https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/592806.Tempting_the_Beast
I made it to 30% before giving up. this book is too gross for me. the frothing, creamy, honey, "cunt" juices were just too much for me since the plot/characters were also boring me into a coma. Yes I'm gay so that might influence my opinion a little:The boring guy in this book:My reaction:Dumb Females reaction:dumb mc unable to take an obvious invitation:This is what a barbed penis looks like:[image error]You want that shredding your insides? how is this book at all hot? to anyone?My reaction reading most of this:
Tempting the Beast is a lesson in  how not to write romance  or a book in general. Editors do an important job and I wish a good one had worked on this, heavily.Me reading this book:Heroine pushes her naive deeply stupid agenda*wince at poor use of language*sexhero whines*rolls eyes*sex *wince again*heroine whinessexmore whining*more eye rolling*heroine stubbornly (and stupidly) believes she is rightmore sexa rare moment: non-sexual actionspoke too soon, more sex"I love you" - *wince*hint of a p
Editors do an important job and I wish a good one had worked on this, heavily.Me reading this book:Heroine pushes her naive deeply stupid agenda*wince at poor use of language*sexhero whines*rolls eyes*sex *wince again*heroine whinessexmore whining*more eye rolling*heroine stubbornly (and stupidly) believes she is rightmore sexa rare moment: non-sexual actionspoke too soon, more sex"I love you" - *wince*hint of a plotheroine gleefully gets her stubborn stupid way -grr!THE END*head desk*The word "repetitive" is an understatement.
The only book I've read that could rival this one in terms of number of sex scenes is The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty and they got tiresome too.P.S. I feel the need to state that I like some erotica now and then but there was too much sex for the length of the book and not enough plot to keep me happy.
This book is absolutely incredible and I can't believe I didn't automatically give it 5 stars on the first read.
Good shock definitely!I absolutely love this series, but as with all long series there are bound to be a couple that just don't hit the spot.
Fortunately most of these books DO hit the spot and I can't wait to read more.My Breed husband is definitely Taber followed closely by CallanMost incredible and moving story Dawns Awakening
Breeds 1Feline Breeds 1Featured Couple: Callan Lyons (Lion) & Merinus Tyler (Human)The Breeds series in the first years of 2000 has brought some of the most original concepts in Paranormal Romance.
The only book I can think that has similar creatures to the ones Lora Leigh has created before the first book of breeds was published is “The Island of Doctor Moreau” where animals become humanoids.
It is cool to be a Breed!In this first book, Callan Lyons is a genetic experiment created by a blend of human and lion DNA – not known to the public.
This book was better than I'd expected.
LOLAs for the very steamy sex scenes, the barb thing was too weird for me, but I somehow managed to "erase" it from my mind...
I think.Even though I've only read this one book so far, I feel I'm going to become addicted to this series.
I just have got to know what's going to happen with all the Breeds and how/when the Council will be defeated for good!The good thing about discovering a series so late is, I've got a huge backlist to track down and keep me entertained for a long, long time...
The beginning of the adventure for Merinus Tyler and Callan Lyons has been re-released with a new shiny book cover.This is my favourite couple from the Breeds series and Callan is the ultimate "Lion King" of the Breeds.The book was out of print for some time now, so if you wanted to read it and you couldn't now it's your chance ;)
4 ROARING STARS  Can't give it 5 stars because it ended on a cliff of sorts. This story will grow and keep ongoing until the situation is resolved. In this book we start the series with the story of Callen the lion laced genetic experiment that escaped from the confines of a secret lab. He and a group of half felines breed experiments are trying to find a semblance of a life now within society. However, in order to live free they must testify to the monstrosities that have happened to them to t
In this book we start the series with the story of Callen the lion laced genetic experiment that escaped from the confines of a secret lab.
Which resulted in : Callan Lyons, the alleged Breed, created by a group of scientists working in genetic reengineering appeared before the Senate committee this afternoon on genetic research.
Mr. Lyons, and four other members of his family, also experiments in these horrific tests, gave their stirring testimony before members of the Senate and the press.However, their mating dance is way more complicated than this.
When I put this series on my TBR list I didn't realize that it started out as erotica.
Not that I have a problem with erotica; I am a huge perv after all.
I knew then that I would probably really like the book cause again, I am a perv and this is smutty paranormal goodness.
This book was scorching hot and amazing hot sex scenes aside, the book was REALLY good.
Not me cause again, I am a huge perv; It takes a lot to shock me.
เปนนิยายทีอานๆไปสักพักแลวจะหยุดชะงักพรอมรองออกมาวา 'หืมม นีมันอะไรกัน' ทังๆทีพลอตเรืองแทบไมไดตางกับชุด New Species ทีเราไดอานมากอนหนานีเลย แตเรารูสึกวานิสัยตัวละครของเรืองนีดูงุนงงสับสนแปลกๆ โดยเฉพาะนิสัยของเมอรินัสทีเราไมเขาใจเธอจริงๆ เวลาเธอรอนรุมตองการพระเอก เธอจะแสรงทำตาปรือเยิมฉำ ปากเผยออาเลกนอย ทำเสียงเลกเสียงนอยบอกพระเอกวา 'please...please' หลังจากเสรจสินภารกิจ...เธอเหมือนจะไดสติและกรีดกรายบอกวา 'ตอไปหามมายุงกับฉันนะยะ !! หามมาแตะตัวฉัน ฉันไมไดใชหนูทดลองของใครทังนันนะยะจะบอกให'คือมันวนไปว
เป็นนิยายที่อ่านๆไปสักพักแล้วจะหยุดชะงักพร้อมร้องออกมาว่า 'หืมม์ นี่มันอะไรกัน' ทั้งๆที่พลอตเรื่องแทบไม่ได้ต่างกับชุด New Species ที่เราได้อ่านมาก่อนหน้านี้เลย แต่เรารู้สึกว่านิสัยตัวละครของเรื่องนี้ดูงุนงงสับสนแปลกๆ โดยเฉพาะนิสัยของเมอรินัสที่เราไม่เข้าใจเธอจริงๆ เวลาเธอร้อนรุ่มต้องการพระเอก เธอจะแสร้งทำตาปรือเยิ้มฉ่ำ ปากเผยออ้าเล็กน้อย ทำเสียงเล็กเสียงน้อยบอกพระเอกว่า 'please...please' หลังจากเสร็จสิ้นภารกิจ...เธอเหมือนจะได้สติและกรีดกรายบอกว่า 'ต่อไปห้ามมายุ่งกับฉันนะยะ !! ห้ามมาแตะตัวฉัน ฉันไม่ได้ใช่หนูทดลองของใครทั้งนั้นนะยะจะบอกให้'คือมันวนไปวนมาอย่างนี้ประมาณสามสี่รอบได้ ไอ้คนอ่านอย่างเราก็รู้สึกหัวทิ่มหัวตำ เปลี่ยนอารมณ์ตามนางเอกไม่ทัน อีกสิ่งที่รู้สึกไม่ชอบคือ...สไตล์การเขียนของลอร่า ลีย์ที่อ่านจบประโยคแล้วต้องย้อนกลับมาอ่านใหม่ นางต้องการจะสื่ออะไรบางทีก็ไม่รู้ไม่เข้าใจ สรรพนามนี้กล่าวถึงคนไหน ประโยคสนทนาที่คุยกันอยู่ดีๆก็กระโดดไปคุยอีกเรื่องเฉยเลย ที่ยิ่งกว่าอะไรทั้งหมดคือตลอดทั้งเรื่องนางเอกจะน้ำเดินตลอดเวลา สงสัยถ้ามีหน่วยวัดได้คงเป็นกะละมังได้แล้วล่ะ สถานการณ์ซ้ำซาก เซ็กซ์ซีนวนไปวนมา บทบรรยายซ้ำซากไม่มีอะไรน่าตื่นเต้นหรือแปลกใหม่แล้วจู่ๆพระนางก็สารภาพรักกัน เรางี้รู้สึกสะเทือนใจมาก สงสัยว่าไปแอบรักกันตอนไหน ทำไมเราไม่เห็นรู้เรื่องเลย อยากร้องไห้มากที่สุดคือตอนจบนี่แหละ จบแบบ...ฉับ !!! ให้ความรู้สึกเหมือนคนเขียนขี้เกียจแต่งต่อเลยให้จบแบบนี้ละกัน บอกเลยว่าถ้าอ่านนิยายเล่มนี้สัก 10 ปีที่แล้ว มันจะพระเจ้าจอร์จ สุดยอดมาก!! แต่หลังจากยุคหลังๆที่มีนิยายอิโรติคเขียนฉากฮอตได้ดีหลายเรื่อง เราเลยรู้สึกว่าเรื่องนี้ไม่ได้ร้อนแรงเท่าไร อ่านไปนี่ก็เลิกถามหาความสมเหตุสมผลไปตั้งแต่สิบหน้าแรก เว่อร์วังอลังการประหนึ่งว่าตัวละครซัดไวอากร้าเข้าไปทั้งเรื่อง แต่ก็เข้าใจนะ นี่มัน Mating Frenzy... นี่นา(view spoiler)[เมอรินัสรับภารกิจมาจากพ่อของเธอเพื่อเดินทางไปช่วยคัลแลนตามคำสั่งเสียที่มาเรีย แม่บุญธรรมของเขาทิ้งเอาไว้ให้ คัลแลนเป็นมนุษย์ที่ถูกตัดต่อเอา DNA ของสิงโตใส่เข้าไป นั่นทำให้รูปลักษณ์ของเขาใกล้เคียงกับสิงโตมาก คัลแลนหลบหนีการตามล่าขององค์กรตลอดเวลาที่เขาเป็นอิสระ และเขาก็ไม่เชื่อว่าการที่เมอรินัสมายื่นข้อเสนอให้เขานั้นก็ไม่ได้ต่างอะไรจากการถูกตามล่า ดังนั้นเขาจึงปฏิเสธข้อเสนอเมอรินัสอย่างไม่ใยดี แต่เมื่อสาวเจ้าไม่ยอมแพ้ เธอลงทุนบุกหาคัลแลนถึงถิ่นและต้องพบกับความจริงอันน่าตกใจว่าระหว่างพวกเขาสองคนได้เกิดปฏิกิริยาบางอย่างขึ้นMating Frenzy เกิดขึ้นกับคัลแลนและเมอรินัส ทั้งสองจะอยู่แยกกันโดยปราศจากความโหยหาระหว่างกันนานเกินไปไม่ได้ ดังนั้นไม่ว่าเมอรินัสจะตัดสินใจหนีไปจากคัลแลนหลังจากที่เธอคิดว่าจะยอมให้เขาใช้ร่างกายของเธอโดยที่เขาไม่ได้รักเธอไม่ได้ คัลแลนลากตัวเมอรินัสกลับมา แต่เมอรินัสติดต่อพี่ชายของเธอได้สำเร็จ และพี่ชายของเธอก็ขู่ว่าจะมาพาตัวเมอรินัสกลับไปทันทีแม้ว่าจะต้องมีการปะทะกันระหว่างสองฝ่ายก็ตามคัลแลนกับเมอรินัสถูกตามล่าโดยการทรยศหักหลังคนใกล้ตัว จนในที่สุดคัลแลนก็ตัดสินใจที่จะทำตามแผนของเมอรินัสโดยการเปิดตัวต่อสาธารณชนเพื่อแฉความชั่วร้ายขององค์กรที่เคยจับเขาไปทดลอง หลังจากที่จับผู้ทรยศได้แล้ว คัลแลนจึงทำให้องค์กรลับวุ่นวายไปหมดเมื่อถูกเปิดเผยขึ้นมา และคัลแลนก็ไม่ต้องหลบๆซ่อนๆอีกต่อไปแล้ว เขากับเมอรินัสจึงสามารถใช้ชีวิตได้อย่างปลอดภัยในที่สุด (hide spoiler)]
Tempting The Beast starts out with Merinus Tyler arguing with her testosterone loaded male family members that she is capable of tracking down Callan Lyons, a genetically modified male who could become the investigative story of the century.
However, Merinus has been half in lust with Callan since the moment she saw his photo and can't deny this inexplicable pull to talk to him, to see him.
His only hope might be to bring his Pride out of hiding and into the public eye but will that be enough to keep the Council off their backs and Merinus from their labs?
Guauuuu. Qué libro más erótico y sensual, además de tener un argumento sumamente atractivo y original para crear la atracción que se genera en la pareja protagonista de esta entrega. La novela tiene de todo, intriga, ciencia ficción, traición, romance... ufffff. Si duda seguiré con los demás libros de esta serie.
It was really just more a matter of personal preference.I thought that Callan and Merinus were interesting characters, but I can't say that I really related to either one.
I felt like these two spent way to much time trying to dominate each other and not enough time just trying to work together to find solutions to the dangerous situation they were in.
I felt like I knew and understood Callan pretty well, but I realized after finishing the book that I never knew much anything of a personal nature about Merinus.
I really wanted to like this series.
I need something more than sex to like a book.
It was like reading the same thing over and over again.
The things that were happening felt like added just to have something more than sex in it.There was not a real conection between the characters.
And it is not that I don't like strong and very possesive males.
And I love it when the male feels this strong conection with the girl without even having talk to her.
I'll read one or two more books, but if it keeps like this that will be it for me with this series.
So you can imagine my jaw drop when I stumble across the word in almost every other paragraph in this book.So, moving on.
This is the first book in the breed series.
And after so many great reviews I could hardly contain my excitement when I started reading.I have to agree that the story has ALOT of potential.We have Callen.
In the beginning I loved Callen's personality.
But damn it was HOT!I like how Lora Leigh has set up the characters for the next books in the series and as said prior I can see alot of potential and I am looking forward to the future of this series.
En la de menos los protas ya se aman y como si nada siguen haciendo sexo porque bueno, es que no se pueden aguantar.
Que cosas lee uno.El tema es clavadito al de Nuevas especies quizás por eso me llamo la atención.
Esto es más insta love, insta lujuria.No le doy menos porque el eje central del libro me gustó y me dieron ganas de leer los siguientes libros.
Pero es que aquí no hay sentimientos ni emociones aquí son solo dosis exageradas del factor S (sexo) que me parecieron normalitas eh, tampoco es que fueran super hot.
(view spoiler)[Damn, like my 'juice' keeps on flowing ya know..(sorry, for the gross visual but seriously that was how I truly felt!
This book destroyed my panties!) (hide spoiler)]For starters, this book did not caught my attention at the beginning.
When we got to the middle of the book it was all about how Callan the lion+human breed a.k.a our ALPHA MALEwants to possess his woman, Merinus Tyler cause he believed that she was his mate.
There will be no exact resolution here and we need to continue to read the series if we want to know more about the Council and the Genetic Experiment.Now, I’m only interested about two things in this story.
As in, they are in heat and absolutely must have sex, lots of sex, or they suffer painful consequences.I may have actually been able to ignore the very contrived nature of the plot and all the hokey science fiction, had the characters been likeable.
Well, this book doesn't have much relationship building outside of the sex, so that was a problem for me.Also, the plot is kind of...gross.
There's a doctor and several assistants helping to figure out what's going on with Callan and Merinus.
No, this is not a "bondage" book, but there is a feel of it- not in their sexual practices but on a psychological level- and really, if you're writing a book about a race of beings who have animal-like dna, of course you're going to have to address this issue.This is an earlier book of Leigh's, so there is some technical issues concerning the craft of writing that shows it's immaturity, but it in no way detracts from the book.If you are reading her latest Breeds, like Meghan's Mark and Harmony's Way, you really should read this one.
Whoa! That was pretty damn hot! There was lots of Rawwwwwr times.. and he had special barb that came out and latched on to her g-spot which made things pretty interesting... there was an actual story line surrounding all of the sex and there was LOTS of sex. But I enjoyed this one! I'll for sure read the next one.. even if the ebooks are priced a little too high imo...
The first book in Breed series that features genetically engineered soldiers, scientists playing God, secrets, fighting and lots of sex.
If any of the above triggers you or you are bothered by somewhat dubious consent (whatever happens to each new couple is explained throughout the series), if pushy men annoy you, then skip it.
Did I say there's lots and lots of sex?
Okay then.I found it entertaining enough to continue with the rest of the series.
Sometimes the story and the characters were good, sometimes they missed the mark but overall, I like the series for what it is.
El punto de partida me ha parecido interesante, de ahí las 3 estrellas raspaditas, pero llega un momento en que las escenas de sexo se hacen demasiadas y muy repetitivas. Y el final es muy apresurado, algo más de explicación no hubiera estado de más.
Do not be fooled by people who say they read this for the story, which is the equivalent of men saying they read Playboy for the articles.Few authors have been recommended to me more than Lora Leigh and based on such things as the cover of this book, I have avoided reading anything by her.
I did not like either of the main characters towards the start but Leigh managed to completely turn my feelings around by the end of the book, something which rarely happens.
Her books seem to be fairly predictable, with the same story progession and timeline overall (based on what I have gathered from reviews, summaries, and skimming).
I know this is erotica but it seemed such a waste of a good idea.There was also minimal character development, they were more like standard templates of what a feisty heroine and dominant alpha hero should be like without really having any individual characteristics that mark them out from the hoarde of feisty heroines and alpha males that are out there.
It was rather abrupt and lacked any credibility.I am probably being a bit unfair, this is after all erotica and not PNR and I should expect the overload of sex and not much else, but I liked the ideas of this story, and can't help but wish it was more of a PNR.
Unique
OMG! I really enjoyed this book! Not only did the author spin an interesting world for the characters, but the chemistry between the them was hot to say the least. Loved it!
Skimmed to the end. This was just straight up porn which I'm not against but it's not what I was looking for. Callan was sort of an asshole and not the fun kind. They were going along and along and then suddenly BAM! The "I love yous" came out of nowhere. Fucking annoying. Then there was butt sex and then the final battle took literally less than a paragraph. (I'm not counting the monologuing). Didn't hate it but still was not good.
The hero in this first book, Callan Lyons, is one of these genetic experiments and one of the initial six lion Breeds we meet fighting for their freedom.I can’t help myself; I judge a book first by the hero.
(Or maybe it’s just mine?!) Because Callan and Merinus are the first of the Breeds to experience the mating frenzy, they turn to the Council scientist who has helped Callan through the years to understand the DNA complications in their bodies.
Callan's lion DNA comes roaring to the surface at this threat to his mate – his fierce protectiveness is all-consuming.
Having read some of the books in Lora Leigh’s Breeds Series, which I enjoyed, https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...
, https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7...
, https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7...
, https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7...
,I wanted to start from the beginning…so in reading order, the 1st being Tempting the Beast, tells the story of Lyon Callan, is a genetic experiment using part human and feline DNA, who, after rescuing others like him in the evil and secretive Genetics Council lab has been taking care of them as their Pride Leader.Merinus Tyler, a reporter, from a powerful family and only daughter with several uber alpha-male brothers.
and yet, I totally enjoyed it.Our heroine is Marinus, a journalist who works with her father and seven brothers for some kind of publication that is never explained.
Before she died, his mother sent them proof of his background, hoping they could help protect him against the powerful scientists and soldiers trying to get him under their thumbs.Marinus is drawn to Callan before they even meet, and he is all too aware of the beautiful woman stalking him.
This, as Marinus tries to get Callan to go public with his hybrid brethren...
The lesson learned is that perhaps I should avoid the erotic romance genre in the future because my list of complaints exceeds my list of compliments and since my experiences reading other books from the same genre resulted in a similar outcome, that should be telling.
Conveniently enough, one of the lessons he learned in the lab was how to use sex as a weapon and torture a woman with pleasure.
But there’s an even bigger part of me that was more than a little disturbed by it, especially considering the rushed, vague approach that was taken with the rest of the plot which seemed to exist for the sole purpose of moving the characters from one sexual encounter to the next.
