https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110382.Splendid
And she was not a maid, she was Miss Emma Dunster, the American visiting, the one the ball was being given in honor of, and she was beautiful!I loved what Alex said to Dunford about Emma, "Don't touch her, don't even think about her." Already he had become possessive of her, he didn't want any other man looking at her or trying to gain her attentions.
He was so funny because he kept saying he was going to have to have a word with those men.There was obviously an immediate attraction between Alex and Emma but because neither one wanted to marry at this time, they resigned themselves to becoming friends.
5 Fantastic stars!Loved the chemistry between the two leads ! :D Really wished I could see the secondary chracters (view spoiler)[Bella & danford end up together in this one..Glad to see the next story in this book is about them . (hide spoiler)]For a change, I really did love the heroine Emma...She and I ? We both share our love for climbing different windows just as much as both our families despise it too ;D LOLWould defiantly recommend !["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I loved Emma’s relationships with her dad, John (only for the beginning scene), her Aunt Caroline (who was her mother figure), her Uncle Henry (another father figure), and her cousins Ned and Belle (her best friends – particularly Belle who was like her loyal sidekick in a way).
(view spoiler)[I kinda would’ve liked a little bit more to the ending because it was abrupt, right after the conflict was resolved.
(hide spoiler)]Love triangle?
(view spoiler)[ No love triangle.
Alex did have a mistress at the beginning of the book (we never meet her), but he soon lets her go after meeting Emma.
It was one of the funniest books I have read and I laughed so much!
Plenty of balls - check.
Lots of laughs - check.
Pretty much angst-free romance - check.I am so glad that I read this book!
There was plenty of traps on the way where it could have taken a turn for the worse but Julia Quinn elegantly navigated us past them.
And we got what I love most in historical romances - a lot of balls, interactions with the ton, rakish dukes, a house party in the countryside and plenty of time for Emma and Alex to be with each other.
I've given this a C- for narration (seriously, it's BAD) and a C+ for content at AudioGals. Such a disappointment when a long-awaited audio ends up getting assigned to a narrator who shouldn't have been let near it. Splendid, the first book in Julia Quinn’s  Blydon  trilogy (the others being Dancing at Midnight and Minx) was issued in 1995 and is Ms. Quinn’s first published work. I’ve read many of her most recent books, but not her earliest ones, so I was interested to listen to this to find out
There’s nothing wrong with predictability in a romance – we know where it’s going to end up and who is going to end up with whom, after all – but there has to be something else that makes up for it, whether it’s characterisation, sub-plots or dialogue, but here, unfortunately, that’s not the case, and large portions of the book tend to drag while the hero and heroine – who are clearly crazy for each other – try to make up their minds about how they feel.But by far the biggest impediment to the enjoyment of this story in audio is the narration.
I found it really hard to finish this book, but I stuck with it.
Luckily, Quinn's style has improved immensely and I rather enjoyed her later books (especially The Bridgerton series) - even with the modern-sounding dialogue (which becomes sort of endearing.) This book could have been so much better and it's even hard to excuse the fact that it's her first novel.
Some of her books fall into the same traps but at least not having all of the problems.)For anyone wanting to read this, I would only suggest doing so after you've read her later works and still want to read something more.
For example, (view spoiler)[Alex knowingly risks Emma's reputation multiple times just because he doesn't care if she's ruined.
Women don't generally run shipping businesses so it'll be difficult but Emma's determined.
Until she decides she's in love with Alex and it's like, business?
(hide spoiler)]The interactions between Emma and Alex alone are irritating, but when Quinn adds additional characters the dialog and interaction becomes quite amusing.The Big Misunderstanding was more believable than I expected, although I was irritated by Emma's response.
Splendid is the first book ever written by JQ. You can see its her debut novel as some passages are a bit lengthy and lacking in plot/meaning. But her characters are, as usual, witty and funny. I always have a good time when I read one of JQ's novel and I guess it's why they're my comfort books :) Just needed a little bit of frivolity in my life, and this was the perfect fix.
It is true that this book isn't even close to "The Duke and I", or some of her other books.
"Is it true that wild bears roam free in Boston?
The sister of the duke is also pretty funny as she keeps imagining what she will wear at the wedding as she is talking with Emma (the main character).Emma herself seems to be slightly modeled on a Victorian Lucille Ball.
She is a red-head and is always coming up with crazy schemes that may or may not fail.
This is the debut novel by this author and I enjoyed reading it.
I've read a lot of reviews that's it not as good as the Bridgerton series, and this is true.
But it's also true that this book contains a lot signature Julia Quinn elements.
Ms Quinn has always been a favorite author of mine; and until recently I did not realize that I had missed her very first novel.
Ms Quinn has always used humor in her books.
Entertaining, but I didn't love the couple as much as JQ's other books.
2.5 stars actually.
It's not bad when you consider this was written in 1995 and it was one of her earliest books.
It's almost like there are two different books mashed together and the second half just seems out of place with the first part of the story.I kinda felt as if I was in a boxing match and then a hockey game broke out.If you are new to JQ, don't start with this series.
But if you are a JQ fan, its kinda cool to see her beginnings and how she has grown as a writer.
Me encantó....!!!
Julia Quinn, cứ đọc mỗi tác phẩm của bà mình lại càng thích hơn, mỗi cốt truyện và mỗi nhân vật của bà đều có những nét riêng rất độc đáo, chưa kể đến việc có rất nhiều chi tiết hài hước làm mình không thể ngừng cười được. Với quyển sách này thì mình thích cực cô nàng Emma, vì cô í sao có nhiều điều giống mình đến thế. Quậy nè, lì nè, liều nè, haha :v Nói chung là mình sẽ còn đọc thêm nhiều nhiều các tác phẩm khác của Quinn nữa ♥
I enjoyed the cast of characters, and found the plot compelling enough to keep reading, but sadly both of those elements kind of careened off the rails toward the end, leaving a bit of a jumbled mess.
The writing went the other direction, and improved a bit as it went on, despite an inauspicious start.
The characters were too self-analytical, and their behaviors a bit too over the top.
He seemed like a decent guy towards the end, but seemed rather boorish/stalkerish at the beginning.
His behavior was excessively forward (especially considering his social rank and the conventions of the time period), while his intentions toward the heroine were muddled at best.
I wasn't expecting to like this books as much as I did.
I've read a lot of reviews that's it not as good as the Bridgerton series, and this is true.
But it's also true that this book contains a lot signature Julia Quinn elements.
The lightness, the witty banter, and the engaging pace.
It's a good read.Alex is a Duke who is disgusted with society.
Since he was a teenager woman have lied and tried to manipulate their way into his title and money.
She doesn't need his money and is unimpressed with his title.

I still enjoy this story with two of my favorite characters -- Alex and Emma. This is a great read and is a great introduction to Julia Quinn's writing.
He was a controlling asshole and she had purple eyes. This was not a good book.
But it's actually a bit better than book #2, plus it gets a bit more of a pass as the author's first published work.Except for the cover.
And if they must have the stereotypical cover photo of the amorous couple, at least they should be wearing reasonable facsimiles of period dress.This cover, OTOH, is every terrible romance novel trope come to life, minus an actual ripped bodice.
And a color the book states explicitly she never wears.
And his clothes are amazingly, even worse.Fortunately for us all, later editions of this book have far better covers.
3.5 stars
This was her first novel ever, and I have to say that it shows in the writing.
The writing had a few plotholes and a lot of melodrama, and a few repetitively annoying bits.
(I notice lots of murmered comments followed by a "what was that?" and a "nothing") I did, however, love this American Heiress.
I love how she told the Duke of Ashbourne "We are not 'your Colonies.' We are the United States of America." Made me laugh.
Of course they are a huge part of the gossip mill, they just weren't as big a part of the story as I've become accustomed to.
The story is sweet.
I totally loved that book.
I love the funny and witty writing of Julia Quinn and her strong and lovely characters.
Again this story had a bunch of totally endearing secondary characters.
The whole story was funny and lovely.
I think the end was a bit over dramatic with Woodside kidnapping Belle because he was after the title.
considering the time where the story takes place it's probably not that odd.
And Emmas rescue mission was just so great to read and of course Alex and Dunford who saved the day in the end.A wonderful and lovely read.
Splendid tells the story of Alexander Ridgeley , Duke of Ashbourne, handsome, weathly and witty , he is the kind of man who makes girls swoon all over and Emma Dunster, a fiery red head from The States ,who with her beauty, wit and personality has become quite the talk of the town.
But neither of them have marriage on their minds.
Will love bloom and fate align ?Join them on the most fascinating journey of crazy first meetings, witty conversation and the most divine connection as two souls unite.This debut novel of Quinn's is truly " Splendid"
Tenho o distanciamento necessário para conceder que há umas piores que outras (ou de que gosto menos, vá!), tal como sei que neste primeiro livro, a autora meteu um bocadinho os pés pelas mãos quase no final, criando uma cena talvez necessária para por os pontos nos is, mas que não foi a mais plausível.Mas esse distanciamento é sempre um pouco enevoado, porque não há como negar que ler Julia Quinn me deixa muito feliz.
Ora, isto tudo para dizer que embora uma ou outra coisa demonstre certamente que há livros melhores da autora (o que é óptimo porque este foi o primeiro e isso prova que ela evoluiu), eu adorei a história da Emma e do Alex.
Próbálnám értékelni, látom, hogy az ismerőseim többségének nagyon tetszett... nem tudom, magyarul olvasták-e, de én majdnem megzavarodtam a sok kisasszonyozástól. Oda nem illő, röhejes, idegesítő! A történettel nem lenne semmi baj, szokványos romantikus, szeretem az ilyesmit, de a nem helyénvaló kisasszonyozás szinte élvezhetetlenné teszi az egészet. :(
Pretty good but not my fave by this author.
Julia Quinn's books greatly improved after this first one.

If you follow this blog, you probably know that I am a big Julia Quinn fan. Many of my favorite books are written by her, and one of her books ultimately turned me into a historical romance fan junkie. Splendid is Julia Quinn's first published novel, and it's one I've read many times before. However, it has been at least 5 years (if not more) since I last read Splendid, so I decided to re-read it via audio, and unfortunately, I definitely had some issues with it. What's the Story? Splendid is ab
Emma ends up meeting the hero of our story, Alexander, a Duke, when she dresses as a maid to buy some eggs from a party her family is hosting.
I loved how Emma struggled a bit once she got married to Alex (seriously this is not a spoiler - it's a romance, of course she got married to Alex!) with what to do with her life.
If I were reading it the first time with this narrator, I would have liked it a lot less.This review was originally posted on Quinn's Book Nook
I think all readers will enjoy it like I did.I love all the characters Emma's character was truly awesome I love and I like the rest of the readers will love that she's not like the other ladies that only car for money, buts he cares for others and you can see her gold heart.As a reader I understood that she dilated to run her fathers shipping company, even if as she learned the way of his job.But that wasn't her destiny and I think that's why her father wanted her to go to London and have some fun and other things ;) Us reades will truly enjoy the adventure and mystery in this book it was truly great As a lot of people say "Everything happened for a reason" so when we meet Alex the way we do that was her destiny and it's so awesome.
