https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9681214-the-goddess-test
Dear Ms. Carter,Since you appear to unable or unwilling to stretch your research skills so far as to google the Greek gods, I have prepared for you a small primer, in the hopes that your future endeavours will not gratuitously and flagrantly denude one of the oldest mythologies in the world.
Hera: The sister-wife of Zeus, she spends all of her time chasing jealously after the various conquests of Zeus and attempting to destroy them and their demi-god offspring.
Again, the Greek gods didn’t HAVE moral fibre, so they couldn’t care less about it.
His only powers seem to be an incredible ability to angst up a room and all the romantic tact of a wet fish with a bad case of herpes (WHO IS A VIRGIN!) He also follows some preset rules (if gods don't make the rules then who does?) and is generally a pussywhipped virgin![image error]Oh, how the mighty have fallen...I could go on, but I think it's enough that the original mythology which was this book's biggest drawcard, has been destroyed and along with it, the possibility of a really great story.
Are you going to tell me that the baddest fuck in Greek mythology who loved to murder, damn people to hell for all eternity, kidnap people, rape young girls, screw his relatives, and whatever is a FREAKING VIRGIN?
Her pain was constant and emotive, something I can personally connect to because I have family members who have gone through cancer, and it is one of the most gut wrenching things you can ever experience.But then this was circumvented at the end when we find out that Kate’s mom is actually a GOD and that her suffering was actually a TEST?
I didn't think it was possible for someone to know so little about Greek Mythology. Boy have I been proven wrong.  First of all, there were twelve major gods and goddesses. TWELVE OLYMPIANS. Everyone knows this. You know it. I know it. Even my cat knows it. I am not a mythology purist. I've read so many smutty mythology books/fanfics I should be ashamed of myself. I'm a huge fan of the Goddess Summoning series by P.C. Cast. I'll be the first to admit, she's no expert on mythology. I have a high
I didn't think it was possible for someone to know so little about Greek Mythology.
I've read so many smutty mythology books/fanfics I should be ashamed of myself.
The Goddess Test is a slap in the face for every mythology lover, especially for a Greek mythology lover.
Zeus - Walter, Hera - Calliope, Hades - Henry, Ares - Dylan, Aphrodite – Ava, Athena - Irene.
Irene the badass goddess of wisdom and war.
Irene is the goddess of wisdom and war, daughter of the great Walter.
According to Aimee Carter's mythology, Hades was a whiny, emo virgin.
My love for Hades knows no limits but this...
So I can deal with the mythical flaws in Xena/Hercules and Percy Jackson and the Olympians and Disney's Hercules.
I mean she gets the deal of a lifetime handed to her on a silver platter and she just keeps complaining: "but I don't like dresses!
I don't want to "spoil" anything for you, but if I was Kate I would have told all the gods to go have one gigantic wank and flip them off.I know some of my friends here do not like the Percy Jackson series, but that children's book series has more emotional depth, accuracy, better character and handles the dark side of the mythos in a mature way.
[image error]Wrath- Zeus (or should I say Walter) shooting a lightning bolt at some poor soulGreed, (and a little wrath) - Prometheus, the guy Zeus chained to a rock for all eternity because he gave fire to manPride - The Parthenon in Athens, of which Athena and Poseidon fought tooth and nail to be the patron of the cityLust......do I need to show a montage of all the women, other goddesses, and the nymphs that some of the gods impregnated?
This explains a lot.
The first sentence of the story gives us a preview of her character:"I spent my eighteenth birthday driving from New York City to Eden, Michigan, so my mother could die in the town where she was born."Kate's had a tough life.
I didn't feel like Ava added anything to the story besides making Kate look good in comparison.
Despite the cruel trick, Kate becomes her best friend anyway, no matter what kind of idiocy Ava gets herself into.“...you’re the reason it happened.” I stopped in front of the bed, running my fingers through my hair.
Greek mythology contains some of the most entertaining and delightfully sinful stories I have ever had the pleasure of reading, telling, reenacting....Anyway, did you hear that, Ms. Carter?
Because I actually have some hopes for this trilogy.And here is where I talk about what I actually kinda liked about this book and why I gave it (almost) three stars.1) Kate's relationship with her mother (Demeter) really was lovely.
The occasional fits of rage were good, because that's fitting for any Greek god, really, but now I feel I must touch on the most ridiculous thing this entire book managed to spout out: HE'S A VIRGIN.
DNF at 9%a wise woman once said 'fuck this shit' and she lived happily ever after.
And you know what it's like when you finally have access to the book you've always wanted.....CUE THE CHA-CHA DANCE!!!But seriously, even 5 MONTHS is still a little hard to take in....I mean, 5 MONTHS!!
Seems like Carter is a little famous in the book world!!
We're getting serious.*puts on biker jacket and pretends to look cool*This book was an EPIC read!!!
As in- "when I was a 10 year old, I liked every single book there was out there!!" So yeah, I honestly don't know if I would love it as much as my little kid-self.Just warning ya, folks.
The first quarter of the book consists of a really confusing series of exchanges that go something like this:“I can save her life if you agree to do [STATIC] for me.”“Okay, um, but what is it you want me to do?”“*ominous voice* You know what I mean.”“Well, um, actually I don’t, but, um, okay, whatever you say.”*days later*“Wait, WHAT did I promise I would do for you?!”“You know what you promised.”“Actually, I do not, but, um, sure, let me know what you want me to do.”“It is too late.
Kate's offered a pile of dresses, and since she offered to share it with someone else, she's not greedy.Oh, Aimee Carter, you fail at both Greek and Christian Mythology.And after that I kind of fell asleep for the entire book because NOTHING happens.
Kate gets to spend time with her mom, slut-shames Aphrodite, has sex with Henry...
And they fucking celebrate Christmas.The fucking mythologySince this is the #1 thing that irked me, I will address this first.Look at this stupid list.Let's start off with this list.Zeus doesn't appear much in this book, and the only thing wrong is his name, so let's move on to Hera.From Wikipedia:In Greek mythology, Calliope was the muse of epic poetry, daughter of Zeus and Mnemosyne, and is believed to be Homer's muse for the Iliad and the Odyssey.You hear that, Aimee?
There’s something so magical about it that I love, and I think this story was a wonderful example of how amazing and how much fun it can be.
I loved all the characters....from Kate and Henry, to Ava and James to Kate’s mum and some others.
I like the way the author changed the tale and showed it in a different way, which actually allowed Hades to be the good guy in the picture.
I can’t think of a better way to have had the ending and I was so happy to see Kate and Henry wed.
I always, always love it when Greek Mythological deities and characters get resurrected, recreated and put in present settings. Goddess Test is another novel that sets an enjoyably creative take on Greek mythology. I also love how this book uniquely centers its story on one of the least liked Greek gods-of course you know him- Hades. I'm reading the sequel in the near but not definite future. Lol. ^^
Kate and Henry are drugged with an aphrodisiac by a third party and have (fade-to-black) sex, and as a result Kate is told she’s failed the lust test.
One of the central conceits in The Goddess Test is that the gods are all around Kate during her stay at Eden Manor, but she doesn’t know which “people” are secretly which gods.
She’s also one of the few who resembles the “real” god, and as such, she doesn’t quite fit in with the ersatz ones.The Goddess Test ends with two occurrences that cheapen everything that has gone before.
There’s also a number of Greek tragedy related YA books coming out soon (including the much talked about “Starcrossed” in which the author received a 7 figure advance for what is billed as Percy Jackson for girls) so my interest was piqued enough to request an ARC on GoodReads.There was a phrase I kept using whilst reading the second half of this book – “What a dick move.” I apologise for the lack of eloquence here but it was the only thing I could think about the more this novel went on.
(hide spoiler)]“The Goddess Test” is a mediocre book, chock full of everything one expects from paranormal YA these days, with serviceable prose and a few moments that keep things going amidst the dull characters and meandering plot.
2 Sterne für den Debüt-Roman dieser Triologie. Der Anfang war echt anstrengend und ich war mehrmals kurz davor es abzubrechen. Man wurde nicht warm mit der Protagonistin, Gefühle wurden nicht wirklich vermittelt und nur platt beschrieben, außerdem hatte ich das Gefühl, dass Kate gar nicht geschockt darüber war, wer Henry ist. Es wurde nie etwas hinterfragt, sondern einfach alles nur hingenommen.Allerdings wurde die Story ab Seite 150-200 echt noch ganz gut und auch das Ende hat mich neugierig auf den 2. Band gemacht. Der Plot an sich rettet das Buch, aber die Schreibweise ist echt noch steigerungsfähig.
Okay, this was just so messy and meh and just BAD i don't even know how i got through it and actually finished it, so i'm giving myself a star for my hard work.
It's always been an element I've been fascinated with, so I went into this book with high hopes and was so glad that it did not disappoint.Carter brings something fresh and exciting into this awesome world and I absolutely loved every minute of it.I really enjoyed all the characters, in fact there wasn't one I didn't like.
She is the most selfless character that I have ever meet and I loved that through it all, she stayed true to herself.~Henry is simply amazing!
But the way the author did do the tests which was do them in plain sight without the heroine knowing was interesting.
But what really bothered me was that to save Ava's life after Ava abandoned her and the only way to get out was by passing her worst fear (water/swimming)Ava fell in and even though I would have tried to save her like the heroine.
What I really liked about this book was how the author put a twist on the classic story of Hades and Persephony.
The love story I was kind of like how?
How did Kate fall in love with Henry.
And I would have liked it to be more falling slowly and passionately in love.
Aimee Carter is a debut author (and only 24 years old!) and her Goddess Test series is definitely one to watch for (planning on being a three book series...so far; GODDESS INTERRUPTED will follow in February 2012).
The book opens with protagonist Kate and a rundown of her role as caregiver for her dying mom.
I've been in love with pomegranates ever since first reading this myth, but Kate feels different about the seeds.
But I will say, there is one big twist at the end and of course, the ending of the novel has me reeling to read the next book in the series, GODDESS INTERRUPTED.
The Goddess Test is the first installment in Aimee Carter's young adult, fantasy trilogy titled Goddess Test.
I've had this title on my TBR list for quite a while but never picked it up until it coincidentally became BOTM on one of the goodreads groups I participate in.
Don't you love it when you get a little nudge to knock a book off that long list!Overall, I liked The Goddess Test.
The cover art is stunning; the story offers fantasy, mystery/suspense, humor, and some young-adult romance.
I went with 3 stars, which based on goodreads is not bad- I liked it afterall.
Kate, on the other hand, hates pretty clothes but is stuffed in them anyway like a human Barbie doll(another Twilight factor)The other thing that really annoyed me was that the author didn't stay true to Greek mythology at all.
It would have made far more sense it Henry was Zeus and let's not forget Hera was the goddess of marriage, she wasn't supposed to go around falling in love with people.Let's not forget James who was going to inherit the Underworld when Henry did.
Is it just me, who wanted to read this book so bad just because of the beautiful cover and the amazing plot, or did this also happened to everybody else?
(hide spoiler)]First of all, Aimee, the author of this disappointing book, messed up the Gods pretty bad.
Weren't you, like, Kate's mortal enemy in the beginning of the book and then after some milli-seconds you are her best friend?
In the end, I am just stuck in between and I think I have to read the second book to really see where this is going.
Pretty fast and entertaining read! I love books revolving around Greek mythology and this was no exception.
Love the cover, love the characters, love the plot, love the book, because... it's Aimee-zing!!!P. S. : It's Greek Mythology!
I’ve always had a love for Greek Mythology and Aimee has just set the precedence for Greek Mythology lovers.The story is about a girl named Kate and her mother who is deathly ill.
Kate loves her mother more than anything and will do anything to make her happy in her final days.
The story really unfolds when Kate begins school in Eden.
They both have hardships they have been dealt but together they can face them hand in hand.The characters in this story are well defined and well written.
Our protagonist, Kate, was an all around amazing character.
Henry was yet again, another amazing character.
There are so many great novels featuring Greek mythology and The Goddess Test has quickly become one of my favorites!My favorite book despite their subject matter are ones that have great characters, a captivating story like and are well written.
The Goddess Test possesses all of those qualities and then some!I loved Kate and her dedication to her mother, I loved that she wasn't afraid to speak her mind and that she stood up for the things that she loved and the people that she loved.
it was rather brilliant!The Goddess Test was an entertaining and memorable addition the YA books featuring Greek mythology.
That’s basically the book in a nutshell.The plot was good, if you forget everything you have ever heard or read about Greek Mythology you’ll probably enjoy this more, but even if you cant forget it’s still a good idea and it’s a good plot.
I also love when Kate finds out Henry is a virgin and she deflowered him (yep you heard me the almighty god of the underworld was a virgin).I liked the writing, it was likeable.
I have never been a good judge at writing, it’s either it kept me interested or it didn’t and this one kept me interested.
When on the whole it’s a good book.
