https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35233.The_Wheel_of_Time
I read these a long time ago, different editons than this, and in Swedish, but this is what I have in my bookshelf at the moment. I had read fantasy before these books, but The Wheel of Time series was what made me fall in love with the genre.
I love these books. These are the books that truly got me starting into enjoying reading. I highly recommend these to anyone looking to get their young teenage boys away from video games and into amazing books. I love this series!
the first books of the epic tales of Robert Jordan's wheel of time, the introduction of Rand, and his friends running for their lives from monsters and legends, only to find themselves drawing more attention from unwanted evil influences in their world. includes eye of the world, the great hung and the dragon reborn.
Oi... not the best fantasy writing out there. I got as far as book 9 and then felt as if none of the characters or writing style had anything to do with the previous books. That took years to read I won't get back.
This book series is amazing! It has the best character development I have ever noticed in a series. The author does a great job of developing and balancing so many main characters while keeping it exciting!
I love these books! I will re-read this series and I can hardly wait for the last book in January! I am currently trying to purhase all of the books in hard copy since I borrowed most of them in paper back.
Love the series
Classic: BAM!
One of the best fantasy series I've ever read. All 11 of them!
Really enjoyed this long epic story of three boys growing up into destined lives of great adventure.
Lord of the Rings remade
I read it earlier in the year, but since I reactivated my goodreads account I felt the need to go through and add reviews of the books I've already read.A good box set and a series I was surprised to enjoy.
Although in the first book I remember Egwene dancing with the Tinker boys and it came off as a stand in for sex like Jordan couldn't write a sex scene with one of his characters.
The land doesn't feel sprawling like a large world though.
I anticipate continuing the series with the second box set books IV-VI.
(The author has since passed away, and another writer has been finishing the series based on Jordan's notes.) I think it's up to 13 now, with the big finale coming out in 2013.
(2013!) What ultimately drove me away was a complete lack of resolution of ANYTHING over the course of the 6 or 7 books I did manage to get through.
Had I continued, it would have required notes or a database to keep track of the infinite plots, characters, and issues.
Tolkien managed to create a world and an epic in 3 books.
This is a review of the whole series.
As of today there are 12 books, and one final due.
I love this fantasy series.
I love the detail, the names, the complex characters who don't stay in stereotypical boxes.
However, books 6 - 9 are painfully slow.
His passing before finishing the series was tragic.
But like a true fantasy novel writer who cares about his characters and his fans, he lovingly detailed the ending and passed the torch to Brandon Sanderson who did a wonderful job with book 12 and I look forward to the final book.
I read the first Wheel of Time book, 'Eye of the World,' so long ago that I can't really date it accurately.
I was in Middle School at the time, and it was this great revelation for me as a fantasy reader.
The setting for Wheel of Time is really amazing, as are some of the main characters.
I plan on reading the first three over the course of 2016, as time allows, but I don't plan on continuing the series.
Since it has no real ending, I'm docking a great kick-off some stars in my review.
Verbose garbage. If you're going to borrow from Tolkien then at least do it succinctly. Fourteen books is immensely excessive for writing of this caliber. There are interesting elements brought to the table (such as the magic system and cultural ethos) but Jordan seems to be writing for the least common denominator here. This is a great way to make money (Fifty Shades of Grey now holds the record for the fastest-selling paperback of all time) but there are better and ultimately more rewarding ways to spend your time.
I don't know if this is the best intro to the series. I recommend it reading either at the end or when you wnat a break in the story.This short book gives you a glimpse of the background of some main characters, 20 years before the story starts. Though its interesting to see them like that, I prefer seeing them at the time of the story and start discovering their past and motivations form there.Anyway, you should read it if you are into Wheel of time
This set accurately contains the three books i read before giving up on this sprawling, disorganized scam of a series. Well written technically, but chaotic and sloppy in terms of the broad story. Robert jordan had the last laugh on all those who stuck with this neverending series. He up and died on them.
This is a book series that gets harder and harder to read the further you go through its volumes. You should at least try reading the first three volumes of it. Robert Jordan is one of the most descriptive authors I have ever encountered.
It is a big story 11 books so far. Lots of characters and fun read. Robert Jordan really puts you in this world. Only problem is that it keeps on going - which can be good or bad. My brother and his wife gave up on the series after book 10 because they were looking for some closure. I think that I am ok with a good story going on and on. Have not read book 11 yet.
One of my favorite fantasy sagas!!! I normally hate long sagas, and this one gets a little overwhelming after book 5, but it is worth reading. I have to say that after reading the very end, you get a feeling similar to seeing Inception for the first time: "Wait... What just happened?!" And I am not satisfied about the way some characters end up...
Although a lifetime fantasy reader and in spite of the reviews, I really didn't like this book and didn't bother to read anymore of the series
Begins to epitomize the worst in fantasy: endless books that never climax, but just continue, characters that never embrace their actual humanity, but manage to stay 2 dimensional, but hey, otherwise Jordan's at about 12,000 pages and still going.
I really enjoyed the story at first, but the author drags it on and on. He is still writing this series and there is no end in sight! Too much information, too many plots and stories to follow. Don't bother.
If you are looking for a fantasy series to read, go for this one. It is full of rich characters, a fully thought out world, and wonderful plot twists. My only worry is that he will die without finishing the series!!!
I liked this series but it fell off by the end of the series. I don't remember how it ends.....but I do remember wanting to get to the next book immediately after finishing each book.
The first three books of this series were mostly a pleasure to read, though there were already signs of the annoying things to come later on.
Wow. Just wow. Greatest series of books ever. I never thought there could be a better epic fantasy than The Hobbit and Robert Jordan has done it. Will read again and again.
There are so many, I just put the 1st box set on the list but the entire series is amazing. He's a modern Tolkein. GREAT books!
I enjoyed this story but it was very long winded and having read it a while ago I have no recollection of it at all!
