https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7456138-the-old-man-and-his-sons
Was the novel supposed to elicit pity for the pathetic characters or some kind of quaint longing for a simpler life?While the setting of the work is important, for the sake of providing context, geography did little to influence the plot (such as it was) outside of the opening scene wherein the old man Ketil and his idiotic son Kalvur participate in a whale hunt.
I suppose that if I had been raised on a silver spoon, as they say, I would have been rolling on the floor laughing watching these ignorant people fumble their way around in the dark, blinded by stubbornness and cultural assumptions that they don't even understand.The simple prose of the book reflects the simplicity of the characters.
It took a long time to track down a book written in the Faroe Islands that had actually been translated into English.
This was written in the 1940s, depicting a quickly fading "old way" of living as a Faroese Islander.
Brutal whale hunt, brutal living, but debt-free!This is a simple story with memorable characters, but tends to drive home the message of the old ways having value and being disregarded a little too forcefully.
Because the Faroe Islands are at the top of places I dream about visiting, I stopped every time a specific spot was mentioned and looked at pictures of it before moving on in the story.
My review for Translation Thursday: THE OLD MAN AND HIS SONS by Heðin Brú (good luck pronouncing that one!) translated from Faroese (no really, it's a language).I'll leave the whole review on my blog http://tinyurl.com/jjxwkvk for a week or so.
Heoin Bru's 'The Old Man And His Sons' is a beautiful, gripping chronicle of the daily struggle for survival on the Faroe Islands, a huddle of storm-ravaged specks of rock in the north Atlantic.First published in Faroese in 1940, the book was translated into English by New York publishers Eriksson in 1970, and has been unearthed and re-published this year, to their tremendous credit, by translation experts Telegram.Like the book itself, it's a venture worthy of great praise.
When a storm threatens to blow the turf roof off Ketil's home, the old men of the village spend the whole night lying across it to prevent it being ripped away by the squalls.His sons are annoyed.
That's what ended up being really compelling in the novel: whereas Laxness, Brown, and others often frame the decline of tradition as the victimization of island life by larger systems and forces of history, technology, capitalism, etc., Brú leaves far more room for individual will: his characters are as capable of being hardworking and generous as they are of being lazy and selfish, and the conflicts or problems in the novel come from individual choices or actions far more often than vast unseen forces.
Characters don't always have the same ideas about what being a good neighbor or islander means, but they are equally capable of aspiring to those qualities—or not—regardless of generation.
Opening - A school of blackfish is in Seyvrágs Fjord - two or three hundred small whales, swimming silently round in little groups, and longing to be backin the broad ocean again, for this is not the way they intended to go.
It must have been heartbreaking for these old Faroe people to see their children doing what they deemed as rejecting their heritage and culture.
So I am sure these people felt this annoyance and then sadness a thousand times more than my feelings.However, I feel that if their children, all of them, are that big a jerks that they insinuate, then maybe, just maybe, they may need to work on their parenting skills.
The whale hunt at the beginning of the book, and the premise for the whole book was really interesting and eye opening.
It's as if history has jumped hundreds of years in one generation, at least when seen through British eyes.This is a story about a particular time and place in history - but it's also one that is very pertinent now: that of a man trying to do, make and sell whatever he can to pay off a big debt and avoid losing the roof over his head, and all the strokes of luck and setbacks that happen along the way."The Old Man..." often seems to be compared to works by Halldor Laxness and George Mackay Brown - books I own but have not yet read.
Drunk and adrenaline-fueled by the kill, Ketil, the old man of the title, buys a huge chunk of whale meat beyond his means, and with the assistance of his (as he sees it) feckless youngest son sets out on a series of adventures to ease the debt.I picked this up in Stromness, in a tiny cupboard of a shop stacked high with Scottish and Scandinavian authors, with particular reverence for local hero George Mackay Brown.
Brown's Orkney stories, rising from a bare, bleak landscape rich in history and myth, seem a natural comparison for this Faroese novel.With conflict between generations, the new and the old, change and tradition, forming the theme of the book, Brú eschews the spirituality and mythology used by Brown, detailing events with a straightforward simplicity that enhances the comedy of the central conflict.

The original Faroese title, Feðgar á Ferð, means Father and Son on the Move, and since Ketil and Kálvur are always roaming the Faroes in their quest to earn money to pay back their whale meat debt, it seems more fitting to have kept it.
One is always dodging falling excrement:"But he also reflected that it would never do to look straight up in the air in this way in their old-fashioned house, because the hens sat on the crossbeams, and at any time you might get an eyeful."Whenever the hens needed to relieve themselves, West translated with the verb to mute, which I see from Merriam-Webster means "to evacuate the cloaca (of a bird)".
Ketil is a loveable old Faroese man whose brutally hard, traditional way of life has been unchanged for centuries.
They have moved their families into more modern houses with weatherproof tin roofs but the other lifestyle changes enabled by an increase in income for the young are hinted at but largely and rather cleverly left unsaid.
We are left with the sad bewilderment at change of old Ketil and his wife, a narrative of ageing in a modern world that is timeless and multicultural.
Ein ganz merkwuerdiges Buch, zumindest fuer jemanden, der noch nie ueberlegt hat, was es bedeuten wuerde, 1940 auf den Faeroer Inseln zu leben.
Ketil und seine Frau haben einen Haufen Kinder, aber nur der etwas trottelige jüngste Sohn wohnt noch bei ihnen und sorgt fuer comic relief.
Ketil und seine Frau wohnen in einem kleinen Dorf, das Ketils Frau zumindest seit 40 Jahren nicht verlassen hat, und sie leben das altmodische Dorfleben - die 3000 Einwohner zaehlende Stadt Torshaven ist fuer ihn wie eine riesige Metropole.
This was a specialty read, preparatory to a trip to the Faroe Islands in two months.
Set vaguely in the first third of the 20th century, The Old Man and His Son is a vivid snapshot of island life among the common, rural folk of the day.
The narrative returns again and again to a comparison of the way things have always been done with the newfangled, high-falutin' ways of kids-these-days through the eyes of Ketil, the main character.
The book cover says the Faroese chose this book as their 'Book of the Twentieth Century.' At 162 pages it's short enough to read in a single dedicated day.
Faroese novel, published in 1940, following an elderly couple bamboozled by all things modern, particularly debt. Their sustainable lifestyle in a tumbledown house, making do and mending, is laughed at by the younger people. With a great deal of dark humour it paints a vivid picture of a remote community at a time of change.
I wanted to read a book from the Faroe Islands, to become exposed to the region's literature, and get a feel for the place. I got what I wanted in this novel, and then some. It's a subtle, short, and efficiently written story about the clash of old age with youth, of the province with the empire, and of preindustrial society with capitalism. Heart-wrenching, funny, and very atmospheric.
I enjoyed every bit of this book. It was refreshingly different in tone and attitude - so good to read something from another culture every so often, to learn about the lives lived in other places and times. Excellent writing. I would write more but am short of time.
The general theme of this book is one of the most common for novels written by European or North American men during the earlier half of the 20th century: older generations of men struggling to find their place in a rapidly changing society.
The biggest problem that I have with this book is that Brú doesn't explore this theme beyond complaining that younger generations of men don't respect (or identify with) traditional economies and lifestyles.
For me, one of the most frustrating aspects to this novel is the way in which Brú has written dialogue.
I managed to find English translations of several novels by other Faroese authors like Jorgen-Frantz Jacobsen and William Heinesen...
Or have we in our facile licentiousness inadvertently freed ourselves instead from discipline; of work and saving and planning our futures and preparing for hard moments – of gratitude to God for what He has given us and understanding that it is not always so; that there is no hard-fast rule that it must be so.“The Old Man and his Sons” is a simple story, it is not brutal or tragic or violent – it tells its tale without the pretense to offend or to push the reader in any direction except to consider what it must have been like to live so lost away from the world in such a time as did the novel’s characters.
If you too like lost places, as I do, consider a visit to Faroe Islands.
With powerful observation, Bru depicts the harsh yet steady traditional ways of living off the land and sea, which seem very much at odds with modern ways, with a consequential fragmentation of society into the old and new.
The older characters are more likeable than the younger ones, yet the situation is desperate for those clinging onto the old ways - refusing to use a motorboat and rowing out to fish, for example.
There is a sense that the modern world for all its ease lacks depth, whilst the old world lacks understanding of what the modern world can offer.
I found it difficult to settle on a rating. Nevertheless I did enjoy this insight into the traditional life of the Faroe Islands and am mindful of the high esteem in which this short book is reputedly held by the islanders themselves. A deceptively simple, illuminating story.
An interesting 20th century story telling the change from the old ways to the modern ways of life on the Faroe Islands.
There’s just a lot of whale slaughter and I just can’t.
Whereas The Islandman tells the story of a disappearing way of life of a tiny island just of the coast of the Ireland,  The Old Man  tells the same of a tiny island in the middle of the North Sea. The narrative style of this book was marvellous.
But when it hit me, it not only changed the story of that character, but also the stories of everyone near him completely, enormously increasing my appreciation for every single one of them.
(view spoiler)[The character I am referring to is Kalvur, Ketil youngest son.
But it's the story in itself that ultimately didn't catch my interest.The fact is that I've found the beginning of the book much more powerful (and for those who cannot stand whale slaughtering, quite disturbing) than the rest of 'The Old Man and His Sons'.Blame it on the translation, but it looked like all the following events happening to old Ketil, his family and his neighbors after the blessed (or cursed?) whale meat bonanza are somehow disjointed from one another and none of them got me.
The Old Man and His Sons, set in the Faroe Islands, and published in 1940, is an interesting look at the dichotomies between the older generation and the younger generation, particularly in a world transitioning between the subsistence economy of the older generation where people only grew or hunted what they needed to survive, to a market economy where people rely on trade, money, and credit and expect a quality of life that the older generation would never have dreamt of, let alone expected as their right.
You can understand why Ketil and his wife, with a lifetime of living on the brink, feel bewildered, even to a point of being suspicious of their children and the lives they lead.A short, but compelling read, I enjoyed this look back into a time of change in an isolated and still quite primitive environment.
I have just finished reading this wonderful short book set in the Faroe islands and it has become one of my favorites.
Past and present views on life, work, religion, family and sex are contrasted in this book in a fabled-like way narrating the vicissitudes Ketil and his family go through in order to gather the money to pay for the whale meat bill.
The ten chapters work as ten tragicomic vignettes depicting different aspects of life on the Faroe islands.
However, while the plot vaguely reminds me of that of The Fish Can Sing, The Old Man and His Sons is written in a simple way.

This is a delightful little tale, that evokes a wonderful sense of what everyday life was like for the hardworking Faroe Islanders of years gone by.
It shows the contrast between the older islanders clinging to the timeworn wisdom of their traditionalist values, and their younger offspring embracing the inevitable changes brought by modernisation.
It's told in a charming way using an array of colourful island characters, who exchange equal amounts of wit and wisdom from either side of this divided viewpoint.
I loved the way that one mans idle thoughts once voiced, became rumour, then gospel truth, within a few Chinese ( or in this case Faroese ) whispers.
