https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/355592.Capyboppy
I really enjoyed this true story of the Peet family's attempt to welcome a capybara into their home, garage, yard. Peet's artwork is winsome and engaging. I particularly liked the drawing of Capy lying on the couch with his head on Mrs. Peet's lap, and the one of him being toweled off after a shower; he's got a big, goofy grin on his snout.The ending is rather bittersweet, but it does serve as a reminder that wild animals DO NOT make good pets.
Although the ending is very sad, especially if you know Capyboppy's ultimate fate, the book is very nicely drawn and the story is touching. Plus it is the only book currently available that features a capybara and that is worth a lot.
Both my parents swear they read this to me, but while I remember every other Bill Peet book in near perfect detail, I had no recollection of either the story or illustrations in this when I tracked it down this year.
It blew me away.Capyboppy is different from all his books not only in the way the illustrations are black and white, but in the whole tone of the story.
It is essentially a nonfiction recounting, drawn from his own life, and featuring a pet rather than wild animals.
I love every word in this so much I can't stop reading it.
Going on a Bill Peet binge (and one that isn't even close to being finished yet) I chose to read this particular book out of my pile that I have since it was related to an actual true animal character.
With only the simple and yet entertaining tone that decorates most of his books, Bill Peet allows the reader yet again into his home.
Capyboppy keeps a charming and yet more animal-like face throughout the book while the illustrations on the neighboring cats mimic the humanish traits that decorate the majority of Peet's more well-known fictional characters.
A blast from the past as this was a childhood favourite of mine from my Primary School library. I loved the illustrations and the very exotic capybara. As a child I felt sad for Capy after he was kicked into the pool. Upon re-reading it as an adult and knowing about the trades in exotic animals as pets I still feel sad for him but also angry as animals such as Capy should not be taken from their own environment to be kept as pets.
I loved this book. It was amazing!
CapyBoppy
This book brings back such good memories. We first read it when Ellie was 2 and Jake was 4 curled up on the couch in our old house. The kids didn't remember it too much but reading it again they really liked it. Funny.....Ellie sure did turn out to be like Bill, coincidence?....krb 7/1/17
The book relates the true story of one family's experience with trying to turn a capybara, a giant South American rodent, into a house pet.This being a book published in the 1960s, it reflects the values of its time.
Nothing is said about the "wild animal dealer" from whom the author's son purchased the single baby Capy, but one gets the sense that story would not make for such an entertaining read.
Today, a children's book about capybaras would more likely follow them in their natural habitat.If you've read any of the other books about wild animals as pets, you probably know where this story is headed.
Absolutely my FAVORITE children's book.
Bill Peet was at his best with this one.
If I had kids of my own, I could justify making sure I got every book Bill Peet ever did.
I might do it anyway, even if Antonio never develops an affection for the stories.
I hope he does, though.) I love Bill's art - I particularly remember still checking this out of the library in 4th grade - ahem - just because it was my favorite.
And that was before I developed my delusions of artistry (I was still practicing guitar and hankering to be a writer back then).
After great anticipation from my children about reading this book I was left extreemly disappointed at the animal cruelty inside.I wouldnt recommend it for children.I would never recommend a book where an animal gets kicked and left to suffer like Capy did for children. Ever. This book actually teaches violence as an answer, which is not what children need.There is enough violence in our world without making it seem normal and OK.
I read this to my five-year-old son. It's not action-packed but the story is somehow compelling regardless. The illustrations are excellent. This book is a great choice for kids who can pay attention to a long picture book but not quite a chapter book without pictures.Read-aloud, age five.
Totally love this book. Definitely one of my favorite children's books. It makes me smile, it makes me laugh, it makes me cry. It also made me fall in love with the world's largest rodent.
Do you even have to ask?
Great story
Unfortunately, there was also the reality of the story, being about an exotic animal being bought by someone who truly didn't know how to take care of it, and as a result, things got pretty bad.In a way I think this does open up a discussion about wild animals, and how it's probably best that they remain in the wild, unless you're prepared for the realities of an exotic pet, straight down to the veterinary bills.
In this case it leads to some pretty sad ends, though the book seems to end off on a happy note.Again, were this book not a part of our homeschooling curriculum this year, I probably never would have picked it up.
Charming story (true, if I understand correctly) of a family who raises a capybara for the pet and then discovers it just isn't working out (and how to responsibly give the animal a new home).
We found out together that we would not be good candidates to keeping a capybara for a pet, LOL.The story was 4.5 stars in my book...good vocabulary...nothing to exciting (everyday, ordinary adventures), but definitely educational.
The illustrations were 5 star all the way (I love Peet's illustrations/books) - charming, charming, charming...a great picture book to enjoy as a read aloud together.Definitely fun and educational, reminding us that wild animals are not always great pets.

A cute story about a pet capybara, the world's largest rodent, except that capybaras were never intended to be house pets. This one ends up in the zoo (although I understand the true story doesn't have quite such a happy ending.) Let's just say the Peet family no longer considers exotic pets to be a good idea. Written in the 1960s, the story is funny, but you will want to discuss why this wasn't a good idea with young readers.
This is my second time reading this book. I read this previously to my two older children when they were younger. I remember them enjoying it. I just read this to my 8 year old son, Camden, who absolutely loved it! A great book to entertain both kids and adults! This is a true story of a family who owns a capybara as a pet. The author wrote and illustrated the book and the illustrations are wonderful! The illustrations are what really kept my sons attention! A must read!
I have to give this four stars because it absolutely captivated my 2, 4, and 4 year olds who insisted I read it in one sitting despite the dense small text. I feel a little iffy about it knowing it's a true story (and that dear Capyboppy met an untimely death from what seemed like poor zoo management- this is not covered in the book.)
Adventurous story about raising a capyboppy in your home. Very amusing.
I loved this non-fiction book by one of my favorite childhood authors. He usually writes fiction picture books for kids but this is a true story of a pet their family had. I loved it.
I think it was a good book and i think Bill Peet did a good job with the illustrations!
I thought this was a very interesting true story of Bill Peet's family and an adventure with an ill conceived pet. They definitely were the right family to experience all of this and it did make me hope that Bill Peet's son ended up as a scientist or a teacher. This is a great non fiction story for middle readers (2nd-4th grade).
Bill Peet always delivers. :)
Absolutely adored this little memoir of the misadventures of one of their zoologist son's pets back in the 60's. ❤
As a fan of Bill Peet for many years (I read How Drufus the Dragon Lost His Head and Cowardly Clyde to my students at work often!) I was seriously SHOCKED that I did not know he had owned a Capybara as it is my second favorite animal!
I didn't even know about Capyboppy until I read about it on a YouTube vid of my favorite Capy, Caplin Rous of http://gianthamster.com/ !
not everyone IS just out for exotic animal ownership, so I really am okay with they ending (after all, it is a TRUE story!
As a big Bill Peet fan, I've always wanted to read Capyboppy but never had access to a copy.
I was excited to find it on the shelf in my new library.
This is more like Bill Peet: An Autobiography than any of this other books.
It tells the true story of his family's time having a capybara for a pet.
The illustrations, of course, are awesome.
I'm glad I finally got a chance to actually read this!
You can see pictures of Capyboppy and read the end of his story, which isn't in the book, on Bill Peet's website: http://www.billpeet.net/PAGES/capy.htm
I was excited because I remembered this one from my own childhood and I had high hopes that my son would love it as much as I did.
I loved Bill Peet books as a child.
Luke adored it.
He even said that there was something about it that reminded him about the book Rascal (Sterling North) that is one of his favorites.
Cute story, adorable illustrations!
Luke especially loved the drawing of Bill's bedroom which was chalk full of all of the things that Luke adores....
he said right then that he knew that this was his kind of book!
