https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6388558-the-warlord-wants-forever
Do you know a woman who's bitchy, non-compliant and difficult?According to Cole, the answer to this is that she's just too damn empowered and has too many rights!Surely relinquishing her unappreciated freedoms and rights will make her abundantly happy...
It is it's one redeeming feature other than the ending where I'm convinced that at least this couple has a chance of surviving a relationship together, which I can't say for most romance novels, so that's a positive.And just in case you didn't get the memo, this book is very, very sexy.Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm off to read every single thing that Kresley Cole has ever written.What?
I have to admit that I needed to lookup several terms, because I wasn't up to snuff on knowledge of mystical beings.
Luckily, I was able to figure everything out and it didn't take away from my enjoyment of this story.I've been meaning to make it back to this series ever since I read 'A Hunger Like No Other', which was fantastic by the way.
It is full of supernatural beings and intense sexual situations.
They definitely kept things interesting.It has been a while since I've read 'A Hunger Like No Other', so I could be wrong, but I didn't notice a strong connection between the two stories.
And taming them because, you know, women are not supposed to be strong badasses.
And why is it that it is always female authors who write such CRAP??!!
Must be a PNR thing.► If this wasn't enough, the story is also ridiculous, stupid, boring and the world building is confusing as hell.
No freaking idea.►To make things worse it looks like the author couldn't choose what sups and mythological creatures to use in her story so she just threw them all in there.
Nah, that's pretty much it.►►Congratulations Kresley Cole, you just made it to my Black List From Hell.
This book reads more like fantasy with sex/romance than just paranormal romance (while there is nothing wrong with the later, a book that can carry itself in the fantasy world-building as strongly as the romance is even better).I didn't forget how hot Cole writes love scenes.
I remember reading A Hunger and being like, "Who are Myst and Nikolai?" When I realized that there was a prequel short story, I was on the hunt to get it.
The question was rhetorical, of course, because ANY couple of Kresley Cole's has the power to entertain and captivate like no other!This author became a 'one-click' author for me after a friend suggested I read The Professional a few years ago.
I know I say this every time I am done with one of her books but her personality clearly shines through her writing.I also know that I am late for the party but if anyone out there who HASN'T started this series yet and loves PNR genre, DROP EVERYTHING AND READ THIS IMMEDIATELY!
I always wanted to find out more about Nikolai & Myst, after meeting them in other books and how the series began.Nikolai, a human turned vampire general is on the lookout for his Bride, the one woman who can make him breathe again, make his heart beat and make him become stronger.He’s just not expecting someone like Myst, a Valkyrien warrior to be the one.
I had to laugh in the scene where Myst tells us about Wroth being a celebrity in martial circles of the Lore…..and she gets all the gossip from the Lore magazine, called Tiger Beat.I find the Valkyrien women totally fascinating and are definitely my favorite characters in this series.
“I can't let you go. I'll never do that. not until I die.”  The Warlord Wants Forever is a short story indroducing us to the work of Immortal After Dark. This book made me become a fan of Kresley Cole. Her writing stryle is addicting and sexy, I also loved the characters she created, too. Nikolai Wroth is a vampire, and he is accidentally blooded by his captive, Myst. The real fun begins when he is finding his bride and wants to claim her, but that's not easy when Myst is MORE stubborn than him
This book made me become a fan of Kresley Cole.
Her writing stryle is addicting and sexy, I also loved the characters she created, too.
The real fun begins when he is finding his bride and wants to claim her, but that's not easy when Myst is MORE stubborn than him, she won't let him be the one who conquers her.
“You're my Bride.
Aside from her writing style, Kresley Cole matched her characters so well I think that exploding chemistry must come from right matches.
The sex scenes is well-written, I could see the dynamics of the narrative there when Myst and Nicolai are together or fight each other.
Adult review for erotic content    "You're the most malicious bitch I've ever known.""Flatterer," she chirped.  3.5 stars.Waitress : Welcome to the Fetish Cafe. Please feel feel to browse our menu and I'll be back to take your order shortly.Me : No need. I already know what I want. It's been a rough week and I could use some stress relief. Can you send over a man who has the ability to produce instant *cough* uh...you know...the big "O," on command?Waitress : (raises an eyebrow) You do realize
And can I get a cup of ice?Waitress : Honey, you're not going to need the ice.
That's the point.Having read A Hunger Like No Other already, I wanted to come back and read the prequel before continuing on with the series.
Hah. I love that Myst tortured Wroth by blooding herself to him, then left him in painful torment, unable to satisfy his need to have sex.
Ain't love hate-filled sexual tension grand?What makes series like this one and BDB the fun guilty pleasure that they are is that fantasy becomes reality.
"Get out of the Woods and get a Room"4.25 Stars  “Wroth! Don’t do this!”“Five years of hell,” he sneered, palming her ass roughly.“You deserve to be fucked till you can’t walk.”  Nikolai Wroth, Vampire WarriorNikolai was a famous warlord, known for his courage and strength. Until he died on the battlefield over three hundred years ago. As he lay dying he was offered a second chance at life, as a vampire. Now he fights a different kind of war. A war against full blooded vampires that drink their
Nikolai Wroth, Vampire WarriorNikolai was a famous warlord, known for his courage and strength.
Nikolai has never known love, but the intense feelings he has for Myst can't be denied.
Myst the Coveted, Sexy ValkyrieMyst is a valkyrie, the natural born enemy of vampires.
Yet there is something about Nikolai's kisses that have her wanting to share more than her bed.I loved Nikolai's immediate attraction to Myst.
Nikolai is blown away when he realizes that Myst is his mate, and his mortal enemy.
A modern day world full of vampires, valkyrie, werewolves and demons, just to name a few.
My dearest Immortals, I know I am about 10 years late BUT I think it is about time to get acquainted with each other... “I’ll begin with the most basic. What are you?”“Pussy Cat Doll?” And this is how I was introduced to Valkyries. The female immortal bloodthirsty warriors. And this is how vampire Nikolai Wroth has met his Bride, i.e. Valkyrie Myst who was really a vampire hater. But Wroth convinced her that vampires are not that bad.I love the concept of destined mates in my PNR books. I love i
My dearest Immortals, I know I am about 10 years late BUT I think it is about time to get acquainted with each other...
“I’ll begin with the most basic.
What are you?”“Pussy Cat Doll?”
And this is how I was introduced to Valkyries.
The female immortal bloodthirsty warriors.
And this is how vampire Nikolai Wroth has met his Bride, i.e. Valkyrie Myst who was really a vampire hater.
But Wroth convinced her that vampires are not that bad.I love the concept of destined mates in my PNR books.
“I will be good to you, Myst.

OMG...WTF did I just read ? There was Nothing I liked about this book..The plot didn't make sense until the last 40%..The heroine was crazy ! And the relationship between the hero & heroine was NOT love, but pure Stockholm syndrome. THIS BOOK WAS NOT EROTICA...Just pure Porn.The only thing I liked about the read was the last 10 pages or so... Once upon a time,The first time the hero & heroine met.She was a CRAZY tease.So the hero then captures her a few years later and controls her using
There was Nothing I liked about this book..The plot didn't make sense until the last 40%..The heroine was crazy !
And the relationship between the hero & heroine was NOT love, but pure Stockholm syndrome.
THIS BOOK WAS NOT EROTICA...Just pure Porn.The only thing I liked about the read was the last 10 pages or so...
Once upon a time,The first time the hero & heroine met.She was a CRAZY tease.So the hero then captures her a few years later and controls her using magic to do his 'bidding' to get even.And if you can imagine what he wanted then you got the whole plot worked out.
2 stars Okay, this was laughably bad.
I love PNR, it's one of my favorite genres but this book was something else.
But if I read one more part with this guy ripping this chick's clothes off and licking her breasts, I was gonna die laughing.I also got sick of moaning, cries out from pleasure, the word 'delicious' and his giant dick.
Not the book for me.
But I read it all the way to the end and didn't dnf so there's that.
I want to try some of this authors other books and see if those work better for me.
Enjoyed this book so much..... Nikolai was a Super sexy, smart, General of a vampire army, but he was sweet too. Myst was a funny, sassy, kickass warrior who has been crushin on Nikolai since he was a Human warlord . They are great chemistry together. The book was smokin Hott and romantic   Can't wait for the next book.......
The Warlord Wants Forever is the short story that introduces the Immortal After Dark series...From Kresley Cole's website:Nikolai Wroth, once a ruthless human warlord in the 1700s and now a general in the rebel vampire army, needs to find his Bride, the one woman who can render him truly alive.
I mean, I'm used to series being about one kind of PNR being - vampires, shapeshifters, psychics, or whatever - but it looks like the IAD series has them all "mixing and matching", and this should be fun.I had to struggle a bit in the 1st half of story, because Wroth and Myst weren't exactly likable.
4 stars   Play at love and act at surrender.  Myst is a Valkyrie that is sent to lure and bait prey until her and her sisters can go for their kill. Wroth is a Forbearer, a Vampire Warlord who is respected for his cunning mind and fighting skills. Myst is unlike any creature he has ever met, she is beautiful, strong, and completely out of her ever loving mind!  “You’re mad, aren’t you?” “As— a— hatter,” she whispered back conspiratorially.  Myst blooded Wroth but unlike her other conquests, she
Wroth is a Forbearer, a Vampire Warlord who is respected for his cunning mind and fighting skills.
Myst is unlike any creature he has ever met, she is beautiful, strong, and completely out of her ever loving mind!
She underestimated the Warlord and is taken captive by him, as he finds out a secret to gain control over her body and mind.
The Valkyrie is mythical creatures even more so than the Vampires, and they are trained to kill the blood suckers at first sight.
The Warlord Wants Forever is the first paranormal book I’ve read from Kresley Cole, I know crazy right?!?
Karla encourage me to go back and read the first book (novella) before starting the 8th book in the Immortals After Dark series, Deep Kiss of Winter.
She said that reading this novella would help me fully understand the events that take place in the 8th book.
I figured after seven books I had a fairly good understanding of the amazing but complex world Kresley Cole had created, and there would be little this book could offer me that I hadn't already figured out out on my own.
Thank you, Karla, for encouraging me to read this short novella.
It gave me a better understand of the series and a couple that I truly adore.
Kresley Cole’s Immortals After Dark is hands-down the BEST paranormal romance series I have ever read (and if I can still say that 12 books in, you know I mean it), and The Warlord Wants Forever is the perfect opportunity for you to find out if you’d love it too—it’s long enough to give you a good idea of what Cole’s writing is like, but it’s not a full-length novel, so it’s both less of a time-commitment AND it’s cheaper (it’s been $1.99 on Amazon for-EVER).
Not a bad story, but it got a bit cheesy towards the end.6.5 out of 10
This book's main character has a very unique race I'm not sure I've read about before; Valkyrie. Basically, if a female warrior prayed to/for lightning in their last moments of life, a Valkyrie would be born. Pretty neat stuff, but that's not even the end of all the amazing races in this novella. It's also full of vampires, fae, nymphs, demigods, werewolves, demons and more!
Weird thing about this book...The world building was  stupidly well done. I would be set for an epic adventure in this world but wrong genre *smirk* Wroth is a *new vampire* meaning only a couple hundred years old, practically a baby compared to the immortal Valkyrie And the Valkyrie coven? group? sorority? Well they semed seemed pretty fucking dope with their origin story, specialized powers, and general purpose in life to fuck people up  “In response, she snapped her teeth at him. To the other
Weird thing about this book...The world building was  stupidly well done.
I would be set for an epic adventure in this world but wrong genre *smirk* Wroth is a *new vampire* meaning only a couple hundred years old, practically a baby compared to the immortal Valkyrie And the Valkyrie coven?
group?
sorority?
“And by ‘leave him’ you clearly mean leave him beheaded, disemboweled, and chock ful of quils like a pincushion” 
And thus begins the entertaining and ridiculous courtship of Wroth and Myst.
Overall an average book that made me laugh wayyy to hard
Solid novella to the start of this series. Makes me excited to read them!
It's how I felt at the time, and the male narrator honestly does a grating impression of the Count from Sesame Street for his performance of vampire, Nikolai Wroth.
(despite their time together, he doesn't realize it till it's time to torture her.) So knowing a lot about vampires, Myst (heroine) gets him all physically excited (he can only complete sexual acts with his mate), then she gets busted out of the dungeon by her Valkyrie friends.
The vampire is stuck for a long time with blue balls...
As they appear in the series from time to time, I was always curious about the love story of the dangerously charming Nikolai Wroth and the fabulously beautiful Myst.
Nikolai is one of the Wroth brothers.
If I say that reading their novella made me disappointed, it would not express the intensity of my disillusionment.
Nikolai’s sense of humor, expressed in figures, nears to zero.
I hate the whole idea on which Nikolai and Myst’s relationship is built.
Francamente, esperaba más de la historia. Había leído que la serie era algo parecido a la saga Vanir, los Dark Hunters o la hermandad de la daga negra. Pero noooop.La historia no es mala, pero hubo momentos en que me costó mucho ubicarme en su mundo y tiempo.Tuvo demasiado factor "S" y poco romance e historia.La cosa fue básicamente: tú me possess, eres mía, yo te poseo... tengamos sexo y haz lo que te ordeno.Mmmmmm, sip... no es mi tipo de libros.***2.5 porque fue medio entretenido STARS***
Realmente me ha gustado y me ha dejado con ganas de seguir con la saga.
Cortito. Me ha gustado. Me encantan Wroth
4 starsI loved this short novella!
There was a very strong PNR aspect to this book despite the romance and sizzling sex scenes.
I really enjoyed the heroine who was as bold and bossy as the hero.---When he opened his eyes, he realized she was crying over him.
Impossible.
“Myst?” he rasped.
Then she leapt on him, nuzzling, squeezing, as if she couldn’t get close enough to him---That pretty much happened throughout the book..
and I LOVED IT!!
Sorta like Mr &Mrs Smith kinda love story.
Would definitely recommend this to every PNR fan.
3.5 An absolutely lovely read :)I liked this "book" (and I use "" because it's more like a novella) way more than I thought I would!
Really nice characters and I really liked the world builder.Why not 4 full stars?
I wanted it to be longer, I wanted to get to know the world a lot better.On the other hand, it was fast paced (and surprisingly well written!).
It's not really for the faint of heart though.
It's the kind of story that you either really like or really...
dislike (hate is too strong of a word).Still, it's short, so it's worth a try at least!
I just love IAD <3 Nicolai was a total asshole alpha male but he pulled his head out of his ass and he and Myst lived Happily Ever After blah blah blah. I can't get enough of the Valkyries. Crazy, bloodthirsty chicks <3
