https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557103.The_Secret_of_Terror_Castle
The Secret of Terror Castle is a book that kids and their parents will enjoy.
It has all the elements that appeal to kids: a hidden headquarters with secret entrances, a reportedly haunted castle to explore, a fancy car to be seen in, a rival schoolmate to overcome, and of course the Three Investigators agency and all the adventures that await.
Even Worthington jumps in to help solve the mystery; he is just as intrigued as the boys.With just the right amount of suspense and terror, this nicely paced mystery appeals to kids and adults alike with its flights of fancy and adventuresome spirit.
"The Secret Of Terror Castle" is a worthy introduction — full of spooky pre-Manson Family atmosphere in the Hollywood Hills, loaded with genuine mystery and populated by humorous but likable characters.
The story: Jupiter Jones and friends Pete Crenshaw and Bob Andrews (their ages are never given, but they seem to be about 14 or 15 years old) decide to launch their own investigative agency from their home base in the fictional Southern California beach town of Rocky Beach.
That leads the boys to the secluded Terror Castle, once home to a silent-film star who disappeared years before.
How can you not love The Three Investigators?
The Secret of Terror Castle was the first book in the series that I read.
I was hooked.
Even after all of these years, when I stumbled upon a collection of Alfred Hitchcock and The Three Investigators, all of those wonderful memories came flooding back.
I started them off with The Secret of Terror Castle.
They love it and get so excited to be the one to answer my question.
Tonight, we came towards the end and they begged me to read, "just one more".
They are now officially hooked and I'm all smiles writing this review.
I think as one grows older, more and more time is given over to nostalgia.
And for a voracious reader, it is invariably connected with the books one read as a kid.The Three Investigators was the mystery series I really adored - for a long time I thought Hitchcock himself wrote them!
I loved Jupiter Jones for his brains (and the fact that he was plump, like me), Pete Crenshaw for his brawn and Bob Andrews for his studiousness.
I also loved their secret junkyard hideaway and the visiting card with "We investigate everything" and the question marks!And the mysteries, present one included, were excellent.
The Secret of Terror Castle is just about a perfect book for boys aged 8-15.
When earlier books were re-issued, they were rewritten - poorly - to replace Hitchcock as well.In the case of The Secret of Terror Castle, the plot required that the "host" be a movie producer, so the book was rewritten with a fictional one.Avoid the new editions, if you can; some of them also exclude the original (and wonderful) illustrations by Harry Kane, a sad omission indeed.For excitement, mystery, and humor, the book is hard to beat.
1. Išvažiuoji visam ilgąjam savaitgaliui;2. Pamiršti pasiimti savo knygas ir skaityklę;3. Ieškai ko nors - bet ko - paskaityti vietoje;4. Randi šitą knygą. Kas belieka. Bet iš tikro nebuvo taip jau blogai. Visai padori, kaip anksčiau rašydavo "vidutiniam ir vyresniam mokykliniam amžiui" skirta knygiūkštė. Nei labai blatna, nei labai išskirtinė, nu bet tokia plius minus "Plėšiko Hocenploco" lygio. Nu ok, gal šiek tiek labiau link minus, nors gal ir Hocenplocui aš tiesiog jaučiu sentimentus. O ir kaip detektyvas visai neblogai sukalta - kas "blogietis", taip iki galo ir neatspėjau ir net teorijų neturėjau.
In this, the first book of the three investigators series, we are introduced to Jupiter, Pete, and Bob. These are three teenage detectives who form their own agency to investigate various crimes, and through a strange twist Alfred Hitchcock ends up as their mentor.
It's just a perfect set up for young adult reading.In the first volume they investigate a "haunted castle", and while the end comes across fairly predictable, the many twists do not.These are clearly written for young adults, but are still quite enjoyable for adults.
I'll definitely be reading more of the series, and enjoying the return to my youth each time.
702 - 2014Eaaa, Trio Detektif terbitan baru ini tidak lagi di-endorse oleh sutradara Alfred Hitchcock, melainkan Albert Hitfield. Siapa tuuuh? Anggap saja pseudonym-nya ya.Copyrightnya juga entah kenapa dari edisi Jerman. Tapi sepertinya terjemahannya tetap pakai versi lama karena nama Agus Setiadi, dan Jupiter Jones-nya tidak berubah menjadi Justus Jonas seperti versi Jermannya.Justus? Mendingan juga Jupe (tidak ada hubungannya dengan penyanyi dangdut tertentu).Betewe, review versi panjangnya kupajang di sini ya:http://threezstacks.blogspot.com/2014...
I just reread this mystery I loved as a kid. The first Three Investigators mystery holds up well after all these years. In addition to being the great fantasy for kids (e.g. a secret hideout in a junkyard that was much cooler than my own middle school detective agency in a corner of my house), the spooky tone is the perfect level of spine-tingling without being too frightening, and the mystery is a clever one.
Cuma beberapa buku dari seri ini yang "bolong", sayang saya lupa yang mana :DJadi, Misteri Puri Setan ini menceritakan kasus pertama Jupiter, Pete dan Bob sebagai Trio Detektif dan menceritakan bagaimana sampai sutradara ternama Alfred Hitfield ikut terlibat dalam urusan detektif remaja.
Mungkin nanti penjelasannya ada di buku-buku berikutnya.Puri setan sendiri adalah sebuah puri milik seorang aktor film hantu terkenal yang bernama Stephen Terrill.
Saya benar-benar lupa bagaimana ceritanya sehingga saya masih bisa merasakan ketegangan misteri puri setan ini dan sempat tertipu juga sama seperti Jupiter :DSo, 4 dari 5 bintang untuk buku ini.
Da das Hörbuch des Gespensterschlosses ja nicht als erstes in der Reihe erschien, erfährt man in den Hörbüchern nie, wie die drei Detektive überhaupt anfingen.
Die Zentrale wird übrigens als zehn Meter lang beschrieben, was mich dann doch ein wenig überrascht hat und nicht so ganz mit manchen anderen Beschreibungen davon übereinstimmt.
Ich war am Anfang etwas erschrocken, wie sehr Hitchcock bzw in der neuen Ausgabe Hitfield über Justus lästert, und ihn als unausstehlichen neunmalklugen Fettwanst beschreibt, auch wenn er zum Ende hin ihm gegenüber etwas milder gestimmt ist.
A great childhood book series I remember, although I never finished reading them all!In fact, I don't know how many I finished, but in my box of junk I found I still had 20 or so paperbacks..
what a wierdo little kid I was.The library always had the cool hardcover or paperback, my copies seemed like reprints, but at least the cover art was always a highlight...
The boys are tasked by Alfred Hitchcock to solve the mystery of a "haunted" house - which they, of course, solve- and so it's off to their next case!A really fun read even as an adult for it's ability to transport me back to my nerdy youth.
I've been trying to remember what these books actually were for so long, I remember loving them as a child (especially the secret headquarters hidden in a scrapyard). Only found by chance, but it's so nice to know they actually do exist!
2008 review - A sterling, well-written story that sets the series off to a flying start.
The story does feel a bit slight, but that’s only to be expected as the book needs space to set everything up.
2013 update - still holds up, the three leads work well and it’s nice to see that Jupiter still has some rough edges of social awkwardness that would be gently erased over the next few books.2017 update - excellent read, it sets the template for the series, there’s a lot of humour in the lads interplay, the set pieces are well realised and the location well used.
Not something I would ever, ever pick up of my own inclination, this is a teen age boy detective story (the first of a series) of the 60's that my husband said rocked his little teenage heart back in the day.
I have my own son who is a "mini me" version of his dad, so I always get any books Dad remembers reading in his youth.
Teen novel, yes, but not fluff.
This book was written back before writers wrote DOWN to children like they do now.
The average kid today would probably think this book is too hard to read.
Loved this series as a youth but remembered it being a little scary at times.
So I read this before recommending it and giving it to my 9 yr old son for Christmas.
It was well written and fast moving action/adventure book - and not too scary for a (or at least my) 9 yr old.
I found the book to be excellent for boys from 5th-8th grade (give or take).
The protagonists are that age and the book (and series) does an excellent job of showing how the boys solve/explain the seemingly supernatural events.
Basically, what got me started on reading. This and Archie comics induced the love/hate relationship I have with wordlings now, a relationship that is strictly not platonic, I assure you.Throw Hitchcock into the mix, so very cool. Very original way to present a series.
Τα βιβλία αυτά τα διάβαζα μανιωδώς στην εφηβέια μου και οι βαθμολογίες που τους έχω δώσει είναι με βάση την αίσθηση που μου είχε μείνει από τότε (ας πούμε θυμάμαι ξεκάθαρα πως μου άρεσαν πάρα πολύ τα πρώτα τρία αλλά π.χ.
Ξανακοιτάζοντάς τα, βέβαια, συνειδητοποιώ ότι οι εκδόσεις Ψυχογιός δεν τα εξέδωσαν με τη σειρά που βγήκαν τα αμερικάνικα, επιλέγοντας πιθανώς όσα θεωρούνταν καλύτερα μεταξύ όλων των συγγραφέων που εργάστηκαν στη σειρά (εν προκειμένω Robert Arthur, William Arden, Mary Virginia Carey).
En los años 80 había toda una serie de cosas que me gustaban especialmente: el terror, el misterio, las explicaciones racionales, los grupos de investigadores...
Hoy en día es sobre todo recordado por iniciar esta serie de libros, que se ajustaban como un guante a su estilo.Jupiter Jones (el relamido y marisabidillo líder), Peter (atlético pero bastante miedoso) y Bob (especializado en documentación y búsqueda de información), son tres jóvenes que montan una agencia de investigación bajo el auspicio del director Alfred Hitchcock (que sostiene que escribe la introducción obligado).
The Three Investigators are Bob Andrews, Pete Crenshaw, and Jupiter Jones.
They are from Rocky Beach, a few miles from Hollywood.Bob is their researcher, Pete is tall and strong, so I guess that makes him muscle in the group and Jupiter Jones is the brains.
They have their "office" at The Jones Salvage Yard which is run by Jupiter's uncle.
They used it for their first case: finding and investigating a haunted castle.I liked the story.
I liked these teenagers who don't carry guns, rifles, crossbows, bows or have super powers, or are running from some weird/evil government.
Pertama kali baca Trio Detektif pas masih SMP dan lanjut beberapa judul saja karena keterbatasan koleksi perpustakaan SMP/SMA dengan seri ini. Kalo beli sendiri masih mikir-mikir ... Tapi yang pasti buku ini mengesankan karena saya suka cerita teka-teki. Akhirnya, sekarang coba koleksi dan baca lagi, mulai seri pertama, Misteri Puri Setan.Awalnya saya tidak terlalu berharap banyak dengan teka-tekinya karena niatnya hanya ingin bernostalgia, tapi ternyata petualangan masuk Puri Setan bisa bikin deg-degan, karena menurut saya penulis berhasil mendeskripsikan suasana dengan baik. Akhir ceritanya juga mengejutkan, gak kebayang. Gak sabar ingin baca seri selanjutnya, meski antrian masih panjang.Ulasan selengkapnya menyusul ...
I have read almost all of the books in this series, I will slowly add them all to my list.
"Slowly" because I don't want to spam anyone by adding them all at once.These books made my childhood.
I really think that they shaped me into what I am today, so I'm very thankful to my local library for carrying these when I, in the tender age of 10, decided to start borrowing books (using my dad's card, no less; of course, he knew I was using it) I have a few favourites in the series, they will get a 5 star rating; the other will get a 3.
This book really brings out the ingenuity, doggedness and sheer courage of the three investigators Exploring a haunted castle is a terrifying experience, which leads most visitors to the castle rushing out and tearing down the steep, boulder strewn path, and the three young detectives do the same. But what makes them different is that they return again and again in broad daylight and even late at night, facing weird music, floating phantoms and icy blasts of air, and even a rockfall, which buries them deep in the ridge, to eventually unravel the mystery behind Terror Castle.
This holds up exceedingly well to childhood nostalgia. There are few stretches of plausibility, and evoking the effects of early films and the transition from silent to talkies was anachronistic at the time, aiding its aging gracefully.The deliberate advanced vocabulary is distinctly more advanced than what I’ve run across in my re-visitation of Trixie Belden. The pacing and tension is excellent, as is the debunking. I am buckled in and ready to keep going through the series.
Sometimes revisiting a childhood favorite (movie, book, recipe) can harm those good memories if it's not enjoyable as an adult. Re-reading this book was a pure delight. Just as I remembered it to be: Hardy Boys with the fun spirit of Scooby-Doo. If you loved this series of books like I did, I can tell you, it's safe to go back and enjoy reading this again.
I read the all of the Alfred Hitchcock and The Three Investigators books as a kid. I found three books in the series at a second hand store. After reread The Secret of Terror Castle I have to say it still holds up. To be fair, the 4 stars may have more to do with my nostalgia that anything else.
Poriadna dávka nostalgie :)
Baru baca seri pertama Trio Detektif yang diterbitkan ulang Gramedia ini. Masih menarik. Meski bagi saya saat ini ceritanya mudah ditebak. Tapi, seri ini dulu pernah menghibur saya di tengah suntuknya belajar wkwkwk..
good. they're all good.
Membaca kembali seri ini ternyata tidak memunculkan efek istimewa sebagaimana saat membacanya dulu, ketika buku ini masih seharga Rp2.500 dan iklannya terpampang menggoda di majalah Bobo.
