https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1134117.Mathematician_s_Delight
W. W. Sawyer is one of the best -- possibly THE best -- writer of mathematics in a "popularizing" vein. He is [was, I should say] a real teacher at heart, but every inch a true mathematician who knows all of the technical nuances as well. I strongly recommend EVERYTHING this man has written.
While Sawyer may well have been a fine teacher-- and this book does present that side of him a number of times-- his prose is often dry as week-old bread.
Rather than trying to explain mathematics in a conventional manner, Sawyer attacks the problem for those of us who never grasped these things in class by taking what was then (and still is, to an extent) a revolutionary approach to explaining maths: tell the student what the problems will be used for, and offer concrete examples, BEFORE explaining the mechanics of the thing.
Too bad more math teachers haven't read it.
They probably couldn't get past the prose.
this book is about realizing math (at least on the applied level) is a human language, from our experiences, and is used via abstraction. My friend and teacher Kareem told me to read to help me get back into thinking and using Math as a language, and to help me work out financial problems in grad school using math i may not yet understand.
I don't have a lot to say about Mathematician's Delight other than this: If you or someone you know happen to be curious about math but have been afraid to explore it, I HIGHLY RECOMMEND Mathematician's Delight as a starting point! W.W. Sawyer KNOWS how to teach and demonstrates it throughout this thoughtful and helpful little book. Would that he could update it for 2008 and beyond...
"So long as a subject seems dull, you can be sure that you are approaching it from the wrong angle" - W.W.Sawyer
A good book for high school students? Nice writing style. The book started off great, but then sort of wandered off a bit in the later half.
Secondly, I have mixed feelings about this book which come from the fact that it was written quite a while ago (1943) and using the British variety of English.On one hand, these were impediments to me as the world has changed enough to feel like a very different place today (e.g. sliderules, computers, ...) so some of the practical examples and analogies were less helpful then they presumably once were, and the words used to explain them were stylistically unusual to me so that I often had to reread sentences to understand them properly.However, I also found that this book still provided me with some wonderful insights that I'd never found elsewhere.
In particular, I am grateful for the suggestion of thinking of 'i' first not as a number but as an operator and then seeing that operators work a lot like numbers.
First published in 1943, this book is now slightly outdated. The use of imperial units and references to slide rules made it a bit hard for me to digest as a modern reader. The author also waxes philosophical quite a lot, and it seems more aimed at teachers of mathematics. Nevertheless, the information is still valid and the writing is quite engaging. Not a bad way to refresh some of your high school mathematics and find some new interesting problems to explore.
At the recommendation of Paul Grahams
Each chapter uses real world examples to illustrate the purpose of the mathematics that can describe it.
Successive chapters often build on what has gone before, so by the end a lot of the detailed calculus and trig gets quite tricky.
But I was only reading it as a kind of reminder of some fundamentals so began to skip pages towards the end as I doubt I will ever need to design a tunnel or an electric motor.
I read this over a period of 6 months, little at a time, turning the ideas over in my brain like the author suggested. It explains things clearly but not redundantly. I learned a lot, and always felt like I was being guided by someone who understood what I needed at a beginners level.
I read this over a period of 6 months, little at a time, turning the ideas over in my brain like the author suggested. It explains things clearly but not redundantly. I learned a lot, and always felt like I was being guided by someone who understood what I needed at a beginner´s level.
Lovely. All time favorite. Will read it again and again and again....What are refreshing perspective of many things I have learnt long time ago , that too the wrong way :)
The author discusses what math is and how it should be taught properly. He also breaks down major topics in math and gives problems that require math thinking and understanding.
