https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/394162.Belle_de_jour
The protagonist of the novel leads a double life : by day she is Severine Serizy, a young lady of the high society, happily married and very much in love with the beautiful, succesful and tender Pierre, a famous surgeon in Paris.
As her double life is threatened with exposure, Severine finds herself unable to give up either of her personas.For those seeking vicarious pleasures in a novel dealing with sexuality – this is not your book!
—«»—«»—«»—I found the story interesting as a case study that has been reused and reformulated in numerous movies and novels after Kessel, if a little dry at times and still subject to a conformist morality in the outcome.
The film is quite remarkable, the book isn't, but that's not to say it's no good, I still thought it a decent read.The novel, first published in 1928, centres on an upper-class young Parisian wife, Séverine Serizy, who is happily married to her Dr. husband.
She loves her husband more than anything in the world, wants to protect and to make him happy, but is simply a weak woman, victim of a soft culture, always remorseful for not being able to show tenderness towards him.
Beyond Séverine, this is a universal story, that tells of the relationship between man and woman; the bond between heart and body, desires and reason.
Γενικά καταλαβαίνω ότι είναι άλλη εποχή, καταλαβαίνω την ανάγκη της Σεβερίν για διαφορετικού είδους σεξ και πως αυτός ο άγιος ο άντρας της δεν μπορεί να της το προσφέρει.
Εκεί που θύμωσα και νευρίασα και έβριζα ήταν στο τέλος, όταν αποφασίζει να κάνει κάτι με γνώμονα το δικό της καλό, το δικό της συμφέρον, ήθελε η δική της ψυχή να ξαλαφρώσει και αυτό το καταλαβαίνω, αλλά δεν μπορείς, κυρία μου, να φορτώνεις το δικό σου το χάος σε έναν άνθρωπο στον οποίο έχεις ήδη κάνει αρκετά, σε έναν άνθρωπο που σ' αγαπάει πιο πολύ κι απ' τη ζωή του.
H νέα,όμορφη,καλοπαντρεμένη και φαινομενικά ευτυχισμένη Σεβερίν βασανίζεται απο ανομολόγητα πάθη τα 
And if you want to read about sex, you'd be better off reading other books -- there are many erotica and romances out there.
The sad thing about this protagonist is that she knows acting out is not the same with freedom.
As you read, you might feel tempted to write off what this book presents, saying things like, "She is sick.
I don't like the way the movie ended -- I think the change was judgmental and made the story petty.
The way the novella ends is much better -- chilling.
I'm a fan of the melodramatic and the freaky, so this was appealing, and I bought it for 50p.Initially it is quite hard to get into, but, once Severine is installed at the brothel, and I let go of the hope of there ever being a sex scene (there aren't any, to the point that I wondered if the characters were doing it at all) I found it increasingly enjoyable.
Severine isn't painted as a lust driven harlot or party-girl turned pro, she's a woman with two sides - he love she has for her husband, and the desire she feels for strong 'manly' men.
Μπορεί η παρατήρησή μου αυτή να μην ακούγεται λογική όμως, αν διαβάσει κανείς και μελετήσει τον τρόπο με τον οποίο ξεδιπλώνεται το νήμα της ιστορίας, νομίζω ότι θα καταλάβει, τόσο την τοποθέτησή μου, όσο και τις προθέσεις του ίδιου του δημιουργού.Ουσιαστικά "Η Ωραία Της Ημέρας" είναι μια ιστορία που μιλάει για ανθρώπινα πάθη, γι' αυτό που γεννιούνται βαθιά στο υποσυνείδητό μας και καταφέρνουν να καλλιεργηθούν, να αναπτυχθούν και τελικά, να κατακλύσουν όλο μας το είναι επιβάλλοντάς μας να ακολουθήσουμε ακόμα και τα πιο αρρωστημένα ένστικτά μας γιατί μόνο τότε θα βρούμε την ολοκλήρωση που τόσο απελπισμένα αναζητούμε και μέσω αυτής, την ίδια τη λύτρωση.
Ένα τέτοιο σενάριο αν ήταν γραμμένο σήμερα απλά θα το προσπερνούσα. Πώς μπορείς, όμως, να το κάνεις αυτό όταν ο συγγραφέας, και μάλιστα άνδρας, το 1920 τόλμησε να γράψει και να πει δημόσια για το δικαίωμα της γυναίκας στη σεξουαλική της έκφραση και στην πραγμάτωση των φαντασιώσεών της όταν ακόμα και σήμερα υπάρχουν άρρενες που αν το συζητήσουν θα είναι για να χαρακτηρίσουν τη γυναίκα πουτάνα!
Joseph Kessel's Belle De Jour follows Séverine Serizy, a young and somewhat flighty married woman who has lived a sheltered/pampered life.
It's not the makings of a good relationship if you can only be one thing for a certain person and you need someone else to explore the other parts of yourself.She'd lived her life in such a secure sense of dignity that no one had ever dared displease her.For a book about an every-day-woman who joined a brothel, it isn't very racy.
ძალიან უცნაური წიგნია , უცნაური პერსონაჟებით , უცნაური სურვილებით , ნაცნობი ემოციებით და შიშებით. რაღაც მომენტში მომეჩვენა , თითქოს ათასჯერ "გადამღრებულს" ვკითხულობდი. ისე კი საკმაოდ კარგი წიგნია , ემოციური ,ძაან გეცოდება ყველა პერსონაჟი , მათი წარსული , აწმყო და მომავალის გამო. რა დამპლობაა ცხოვრებაp.s კესელი პირველი მწერალია , რომლის სახელი და გვარი ვერ დავიმახსოვრე :D P.P.S ძაააან დამპლობაა ცხოვრება
However this relationship of thrills becomes far too much and life gets complicated for Séverine.Most people will know the story of Belle de Jour as it also a classic piece of French cinema from 1967.
I think French erotica is really interesting and it is weird to think this was written so long ago.If you have seen the movie Belle de Jour, then reading the book is not really beneficial.
Joseph Kessel does not offer anything interesting and I think everything that made the movie great was all original content from the mind of Luis Buñuel.
It's about a married shy French woman, rather virginal in her attitude to sex, who spends time in a bordello in her afternoons.
They both want to serve the other and her attitude to sex is just a gift for her husband.
Paradoxically, it makes her love her husband more, but want sex with him less.
Not so selfish.You know, I wonder if anybody will ever write a novel about a bold, sexually equal woman.
It's really dry, and incredibly melodramatic, the kind of book where everything happens internally, in the oh so scared, tortured soul of our poor heroine, Séverine.
The book is full of sentences like "Séverine only realized the strength of her love for Pierre at such moments of emotion or peril; but in those moments she felt it to the point of pain." Or "She bent over Pierre, and in the depths of his eyes she detected a quiver, a trembling flame, a cry, an endless lament." And there's not even any sex!
Restless, unhappy and bored in her marriage, a woman turns to a young lover.
Mr. Kessel has created a tour de force, a story told in dishonestly simple terms.
Séverine does not turn from her husband out of hatred but out of spurned love.
Mr. Kessel has given us more than the portrait of an adulteress, more than a story about a foolish housewife.
His riveting story posits it is not enough to love.
Love must be given, shared and somehow expressed; otherwise it becomes warped, sickly and deadly beyond imagining.
Read it with a loved one—if you dare.
Facebook bana diyor ki; beş yıl önce tam da bugün izlediğin dört filmin ikisi Luis Bunuel'in.
Viridiana ve Simon of desert.
Belle de jour da yakın zamanında izlenmiştir kesin, ama film hala aklımda ayrı güzel,kitabı ise daha daha güzel.
Pek bir kararsızım.
En güzeli yarıştırmamak galiba..Kitaptan film yapmayı inekten bulyon yapmaya benzeten kimdi unuttum ama bu gündüz güzeli için geçerli değil.
Tüm gün severine'ye yüz sürüp psikanalize tekrar tekrar aşık olabilirsiniz.
1927 yılında yazılmasına mı şaşıralım, yoksa bir kadının iç dünyasına hele de konu cinsellik ve arzu olduğunda bu kadar önyargısız ve naif bir şekilde bir erkeğin anlatabilmesine mi bilmiyorum.
Kendinizi Severine'in yerinde sıklıkla hissedeceğiniz ve zaman yaratabilirseniz iki günde bitirebileceğiniz bir kitap..
This is my favorite book of all times! This woman struggles with morality, faithfulness, and self-respect in a changing world for women. It was written in the naturalist style, and the movie that follows was filmed in the nouvelle vague of French cinema. An AWESOME experience!
Severine is happily married to rich surgeon Pierre. But Pierre has her on a pedestal and treats her like a breakable object when all she wants is rough passion. Because she can't tell her husband her secret sexual desires, she takes employment in a brothel where she becomes involved with a shady gangster type. Obviously, this doesn't end well. Considering the subject matter, I would have expected more titillation but there are no descriptive sex scenes. Sort of interesting psychologically though.
Um belo livro que originou uma obra prima do cinema. Interessante ver como a história termina de maneiras relativamente diferentes nas duas versões da história - e apesar do final de Kessel ser uma ótima maneira de terminar a saga perversa de Séverine, fiquei mais fã da ambiguidade posta na trama por Buñuel.
Close to 4 stars but it got a bit overwrought and melodramatic near the end. Otherwise a balanced and compassionate portrayal of a woman at odds with herself, trying to compartmentalize a sort of familial love and a burgeoning, compulsive erotic obsession. Doesn't turn out particularly well for all involved, but thankfully there's no judgment here either way.
Un verdadero recato, el de Kessel, a la hora de construir situaciones e intensos monólogos emocionales. Entre el gran drama y la fastuosa comedia de enredo (mas sin comicidad alguna), Belle de Jour representa toda una joya del hacer francés. Un éxito.
This is one of the most interesting books I have ever read. The protagonist is one of the most complex women in literature- in my opinion, of course- and I really love her for that reason.
Tengo curiosidad por tratar de comprender que lleva a una persona a cambiar radicalmente su vida con tal de sastifacer sus mas bajos instintos.
Ben bu kitabı niye okudum, nasıl okudum, ne anladım, ne anlamam gerekiyordu bilmiyorum. Çok rahatsız edici bir kitap. "Kadına bak yaa nalet olsun sebebi neydi ki!" diyeceksiniz emin olun.
Not an easy read.
Severine's self-destruction is painful and real.
Even though she's highly imperfect and makes some selfish, misguided decisions, you can't help but mourn for her and Pierre's fate.Some of the other reviewers who paint her as a bored housewife fail to take into account that Severine was raped by a plumber when she was 8 years old.
This fact is revealed in the prologue and for me it echoed throughout the entire book.
How can a woman reconcile sexual pleasure with pure love when her first sexual encounter, at such a young age, was so violent?
To βιβλίο, που κυκλοφόρησε το 1928, ήταν για την εποχή του προκλητικό και ο συγγραφέας κατηγορήθηκε για ελευθεριότητα, ακόμη και πορνογραφία.
Το να μιλάς εκείνη την εποχή για τη σεξουαλικότητα μιας γυναίκας της καλής κοινωνίας και τις "βρώμικες" φαντασιώσεις της που πάνε κόντρα στα κοινωνικά πρότυπα ήταν μεγάλη υπόθεση.
Φυσικά, στην εποχή μας, το βιβλίο δε σοκάρει και τόσο.
Και όπως λέει και το εισαγωγικό σημείωμα πλέον ξέρουμε ότι "είναι αδύνατον να αποκαλύψεις το δράμα της ψυχής και της σάρκας χωρίς να μιλήσεις ελεύθερα και για τα δύο".
Δεν ήταν άσχημο βιβλίο, αλλά δεν ήταν και η αποκάλυψη της λεγόμενης "ερωτικής λογοτεχνίας"
The silence between them was thick with their defeat.Then she realized that this woman drawing neare
Bueno, la verdad es que me lo esperaba mucho más impactante de lo que en realidad es, dadas las críticas que recibió el autor al publicarlo.
Normal que se escandalizasen en esa época con las ideas que se tenían entonces...El estilo me ha gustado; el desarrollo de la historia está bien e incluso la duración del libro es la adecuada.
Trágico pero abierto a la vez; esclareciendo aspectos pero dejando otros a imaginación del lector.No sé si tendré la oportunidad de leer más libros de este hombre; aunque me alegro de que este haya llegado hasta mis manos.
A quick and easy read, took me two days of 4 40-minute subway commutes to complete. As a fan of the film, it was interesting to get a more in-depth, inner thought view of Severine (ah, what a name!), but it still played a little strangely. I was also curious towards the end as the events transpire in a quite different way than the film. The description of Marcel exactly fits the movie, though, I laughed and loved it. Good read, but not amazing.
wow...very different from the movie. much more cohesive, and a lot more expressive of an actual dilemma. it's much better at putting the heroine's experience in a context where her actions and desires are surprising, but understandable. because it was so much less weird and graphic than the movie, it also came off as less moralizing. less, "whoa, look what fucked up shit is happening to this fucked up woman"; more, "wow...how easy it is for something so simple to go so wrong".
A lot like the hordes who’ve taken rather obsessively to eReaders: “playfully” admonishing their loved ones and jobs (that is, if they have jobs) which detract from their precious books; particularly “book boyfriends.” There were so many similarities between them and our main character, Séverine, whose fleshly forays are moot—which render them rather glib and gratuitous.
This book would be better read as satire or, if you can objectify Séverine enough, perhaps an exercise in pathetic fallacy or pathos.
Because, I could gather that Séverine had very little self-concept, which she consequently projects through an affinity for façades.
