https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1829115.The_Blind_Colt
this book is really sad.But super good.It is about a horse that has a baby that is blind.So the owners of the horse think they should make it die.Why they want it to die is because it keeps on stepping into more trouble each day.Will they kill it or let it live ? If you want to know you have to read the book.
Very inspiring story of a blind colt over coming the odds to survive out in the wild.
A easy read horse book that I go back to whenever I want to read an older book that I have.
A couple of hours.Characters?
Memorable, several characters.Setting?
Real world, southwest US pre-1900.Written approximately?
1940.Does the story leave questions in the readers mind?
Ready to read more.Any issues the author (or a more recent publisher) should cover?
No.Short storyline: A colt is born bind, and a pre-teen rancher wants to keep him alive, and not kill him out of mercy.Notes for the reader: My book was so old, the pages crumbled.
Spoiler alert: Reading the end, you get the feeling that the old man used his horse trader senses to encourage the pre-teen to work really hard to save the colt.
A heart warming story.
I have fond memories of books by Glen Rounds. Or rather, for his illustrations, since I don't remember what books of his I read, specifically.This is a charming little book. Very sweet.
This book isn't very plot-driven, and is very, very descriptive. I think I enjoyed it more than the kids did. They are still young enough that they need more of a plot to keep them engaged. Still a good read and lots of discussion about looking out for others and helping those who need our help.
Actual Rating: 3.5 starsA cute, middle grade read about a young colt who is born blind and the trials and tribulations associated with it. I'll be giving this to my younger sister so she can enjoy it!
Loved it!
Scrappy and smart, the blind colt survives a variety of challenges. Super cute story!
The Blind Colt is a great children's book, and though it was published back in 1941, the theme remains relevant.
Through the eyes of a child, and the eyes of a colt, we watch the struggle of survival in wild times and wild lands.
A young colt is born within a wild herd of horses, beautiful but blind.
This simple tale tells the story of his efforts to survive against pretty bad odds - blizzards, wolves, and rocky terrain all plot against him as he learns to rely on his senses.My copy of this book is the 1973 edition, and it has been on my bookshelves for many years.
I loved this book as a child, and I enjoyed revisiting it as an adult.
I really liked the ending. The second half of the book was good.
AR Quiz No. 112112 EN FictionAccelerated Reader Quiz Information IL: LG - BL: 5.9 - AR Pts: 2.0Accelerated Reader Quiz Type Information AR Quiz Types: RP
A good read for kids.
I read this to the Lemmon girls at the Beach. Great book for all kids.
great home education resourceWonderful read, a great addition to anyone's personal library.
Very elegant with both prose and illustrations. I'm sorry I lost my copy. Yes, this is a children's book, but if you love horses, then it's an all-ages book.
I liked it. It's really good, but the starting I didn't like so much so I think you should just keep on reading it. It's about how this blind colt comes to be very good.
charming pen illustrations in my copy, good non-sentimental story, enjoyed the dialogue.
I remember reading this book while out camping with my family. I was absorbed in it, it was a fun, short, enjoyable novel.
The story of a young cowboy who has his heart set on a beautiful grey colt, only the colt is blind. I found this to be rather on the boring side, but it is very authentic.
