https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/164542.My_Friend_Flicka
O'Hara is a depression era writer and has a bit of "Steinbeck" flavor to her writing.
Not quite as harsh, but like fabric that wears over knees and elbows, it comes closer in some areas than others.There's more to the books than "a boy and his horse" story, and if you've only seen the movies I urge you to read the books instead.
Nell's story is compelling reading, particularly her life philosophies she tries to impart on her sons.
I would suggest, after reading the books, to read up a bit on O'Hara herself.
Just when you think Ken is doomed to a life of failure, his mother has an imaginative idea: give Ken what he wants most, a horse of his own, a horse to break and teach and love.
And because he loves his wife and because he can't think of anything else, Ken's father agrees and allows Ken to choose a colt to raise.Ken chooses Flicka, a colt with a wild and unmanageable mother.
Ken's father tries to change his son's mind, but Ken stubbornly clings to his desire for Flicka.
And once again, it feels like Ken is heading for doom, that he has once again made the wrong choice.
Okay, I'll say it right here at the beginning of this review - for me: Best Horse Book Ever.In my quest as a young girl to read every single horse book I could find, I somehow bypassed this one.
Although parts of it now seem dated (it was first published in 1941) it reads best as historical fiction, depicting life on a remote Wyoming ranch in the early part of the 20th century.
The power of the written word.Horse lovers, animal lovers, and readers of historical fiction, don't miss this classic read.
A vivid story about ten-year-old Ken McLaughlin and his connection with Flicka, a filly born on his parents' ranch in Wyoming.
When Ken is offered a choice of a young horse to raise and train as his own, he chooses Flicka, an animal his father believes will be troublesome and untameable.
But Ken has already imagined his life with Flicka and refuses to make a different choice.Ken's mother Nell has a much greater understanding of her younger son's temperament.
The story has an intensity to it as it portrays life on a Wyoming ranch in a particular time and place.This was as satisfying a read as an adult as I remember as a child.
(crossposted from amazon)Like so many others, I read this book as a child, but I've reread it a couple of times as an adult - am doing so now.
As a child, I identified strongly with 10-year-old Ken. As an adult, I still do - but I also empathize with his parents, who have to try to teach this brilliant, sensitive daydreamer how to accept responsibility and cope in the real world, All the characters in this book - human and animal - are three-dimensional and alive.
Anyone who loves animal stories must read this book - you won't regret it.
Like any horse obsessed person, I try to see every horse-related movie and read nearly every horse related book.
So, perhaps in this case, the mistake I made was that I watched the movie first and then read the book.
In the movie: 16 yo girl is misunderstood by her father.
Girl finds wild mustang.
Girl catches mustang.
Girl, of course, trains mustang anyway.
Father sells mustang to rodeo.
And while most people say the book is always better than the movie, here's where I have to disagree.
'My Friend Flicka` is set on a ranch south west of Tie Siding, Wyoming.
Basically, it is your typical coming of age story, but it can interest readers of all ages because it's not just about young Ken McLaughlin but his entire family, in particular, his mother, Nell.
Still, there is so much practicality involved in the way the McLaughlin family and friends approach ranching and living in 1940's Wyoming that it doesn't ever really fall into the sentimental or maudlin.
I only wish Mary O'Hara had written more books along this line, instead of going to Hollywood to write screenplays, or whatever it was she did.
I first read this book when I was eight or nine, and have wished for Wyoming ever since.
It's a lovely story about a shy, dreamy kid who hates school and desperately wants his father's respect, but who can't help always doing something clumsy or forgetting something important.
For the summer, he wants nothing more than to have his own yearling colt to train.
This novel has such a sense of place and time, and to read it you must absolutely go outside.
Originally begun as a short story, O'Hara fleshed it out into something really wonderful.
One of my all-time favorites.
I had read this book once before when I was quite a bit younger and didn't like it.
This time, reading it through, I actually did like it.
I was rather surprised though, because I had heard it suggested as a children's book and I find it a bit more mature.
I'd place it more in the young adults category, due to some language and subject matter.This book is well known for being a sweet story about a boy and his horse, Flicka.
I, however, did not find that the most interesting relationship in the book.
I loved this book! The writing is wonderful, the characters are realistic and interesting, the story is well-told and I learned a lot about horses and ranching and life. It made me want a horse of my own. While reading this book, I chided myself for ever wasting time reading books that are poorly written. I was emotionally involved with the characters and, though I would gladly have enjoyed a longer book, it ended perfectly. A new favorite!
I really wanted to love this book because I love horses, and I have always loved reading stories about them.
It’s okay if you don’t mind lost of description, but I was disappointed.The pace was so incredibly slow that I was worried I would never finish this book.
The problem I had was if we all basically know what is going to happen, then why don’t we actually encounter the horse until almost halfway through the novel?
I wasn’t a big fan of Ken’s father, and not just in the “he-is-the-father-putting-too-much-pressure-on-his-son-way.” I found his character flip-flop a lot throughout the story.
Ken is a 10 year old boy who lives on a Wyoming ranch, the Goose Bar, with his father Rob, his mother Nell, and his brother Howard.
Ken spends the rest of the summer nursing her back to health.
Unfortunately, the horse gets a terrible blood infection but Ken spends a night in a shallow brook with her, nursing her back to health.I had a wonderful cat named Nadia.
She had a terrible stomach infection and my mother and I took her to the veternarian to try and get her back to excellent health.
So adult and complex for what is ostensibly children's literature (not that children's literature can't be either of those things, but this book is very serious about death, poverty, responsibility, suffering, etc.).
Suffering animals and little kids who care about them is an emotionally potent mixture.Oh - if you love clouds, this is a great book for you.
Mary O'Hara loves them, too.Now and then Ken stopped reading, put his book down and lay back on the hill with his arms under his head, looking up through the branches of the trees.
I read this many years ago- a wonderful story about a strong bond between a boy and the horse that eventually becomes his. When I saw commercials for the movie version of this, I was appalled that they changed the main character to a girl instead of a boy... talk about character indiscrepancy!
This is a great story of life, and the love of a boy for a special horse. Sometimes what we all need is someone or something to love and care for to make the rest of our lives go smoother.
I really enjoyed this book because of the message that they share: overcoming labels and limits set upon you. Billy and Flicka are both underestimated and misunderstood- Billy as a good-for-nothing and Flicka as a "loco", and as the story progresses, they work together to overcome these expectations and soar above them.However, this story was a little hard to get into as there is little to no plotline until more than halfway in.Overall, an idyllic story with a very powerful message.
I read this book over and over as a kid. This is my first time rereading it as an adult. I was worried that it might not hold up, but it does. There is so much more to this book than I remember. I think a lot of it sailed over my head because I was too young to get it.
My Friend Flicka, written by Mary O'Hara, is a book about a young boy, named Ken McLaughlin, who has always dreamed of having his very own colt to teach tricks and play with.
Eventually, Nell McLaughlin, Ken’s mother, finally persuades Rob to allow Ken his very own colt in hopes that he will finally learn some responsibility and stop his constant day dreaming.
I really liked the book and I cried a few times towards the end, but I noticed that all of the horses’ names were hard to remember.
Its beauty and majesty were not to be denied as the author lovingly detailed sunsets, the growing of greengrass [sic], the sweep of land and rivers, the outgrowth of stone.However, the story slowly grew on me as I read because these came to be real people, not just an amalgam of annoying character traits.
Reading about how the family pulled together was very touching.Running through this story like a golden river through a rocky mountain is the tale of a boy’s relentless, heartfelt love for his filly, a spirited creature he longs to tame, love and make his own.
I had this whole series figured out starring a black stallion named Bugler who could do everything from saving his beloved master from starving wolves to saving the planet from an extra-terrestrial robot horse bent on world domination.Okay, granted, there are no robots in My Friend Flicka but there is a communication between aliens, in a way.
There's a lot of figuring going on.This is one of those books that I absolutely adored as a kid but now I look back on with my adult eyes and wonder at the violence (and how much prices have risen since the 1940s.) Also, there is no such thing as an albino horse but no one knew that back then.
"Are you going to be a bull-headed little simp or a sensible boy?"Ken said stubbornly, "Dad, I have to have her--she's mine."He really meant, she's me.Horse story, love story, family saga.
I'll be reading the next 2 books in this trilogy Thunderhead and The Green Grass Of Wyoming.Two things to think about for the sensitive reader: The "n" word pops up when Rob uses an old saying in conversation.
Nell (his mom) convinced his dad to give Ken a filly as something to improve his responsibility.
Ken had a hard time picking which filly he wanted, but finally decided on Flicka.
The problem is, the horse Ken picked has strong mustang blood, making her a very wild horse.
Will Ken be able to help Flicka and tame her wild heart?
Because of this, couldn’t really relate to the book, and there were parts that were hard to understand, because they use more old fashioned language.
It always felt like a chore to pick up My Friend Flicka, and I could barely get through one chapter.
Despite the simplistic writing and the fact that this is a 'boy and his horse' story, I don't believe this is really a book for children--at least not young children who have no parental guidance while reading.At least one horse dies fairly gruesomely, and while it isn't described in detail, it's made pretty clear that the horse bled to death during an operation to remove an undescended testicle.
Also, Flicka herself is in grave danger several times during the book.Nevertheless, if the child is old enough and has an adult available to counsel them if necessary, I think they could handle it.
Each book of the series had a different color.
I read again again, and again, and again - at least once every summer.
I finally made in to Wyoming, and then Montana in the summer of 2014 when I visited Yellowstone by myself.
It was a life-changing experience and "Flicka" was on my mind every step of the way.
Reading this again at age 24 was a different experience.
The book was both as I remember it and different in some ways.
This time around I noticed myself paying more attention the Nell's character - the way she is and dresses and acts throughout the book was very inspiring.
I found reading this book conflicting.
The first half of the book was rather dull.
The book seemed to lack concentration as much as Ken did (maybe that was the point but is wasn't executed well).
My updates throughout the book also show my frustration with the writing.
The author uses the word colt inter-changeably with foal or yearling.
I found this rather confusing and bad editing.
The last half of the story was much better but still rather slow.
I also found it frustrating at the end of the story Ken is called brilliant because he wrote a 150 word story.
There are no books that I read and then read again. I can't count the times I've read this book. In fact, I've read the whole series numerous times. First, I am a horse person and seek out horse books. Second, I love the journey that this series of books takes. Third I now live in WY and want to read them again. I think my favorite Is "The Green Grass Of Wyoming." It neatly ties up the first two.
When I was a kid I had a terrible cold. My dad brought me home this book. I remember being totally engrossed and forgetting for a while how sick I was. It is the touching story of a boy who believes in a horse that everyone else says is loco (crazy). I was touched by his devotion to Flicka. Reading this will always be a found memory.
I liked this book . . . liked Ken a lot, a day-dreamer just like me . . . and his horse, Flicka, I loved to see him take care of it. His mother Nell was a lovely woman. I pretty much hated his father all the way through, though, and his brother was rather rotten as well :/
A favourite from my childhood. Those horses gave me a sense of power, wildness, and the force of loneliness that can be magnified.
Mary O'hara builds her narrative carefully and patiently, with a deep compassion and love for her characters, both human and otherwise. Wonderful.
