https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/374518.She_and_Allan
I did like, though, how different Ayesha's relationship was with Allan as compared to that with Leo and Holly.
I also liked that she told Allan a just-sightly different version of her history that than which was told in both She and Ayesha.
I also liked getting to know Umslopogaas and wish that I had read his story in Nada the Lilly prior to this, and look forward to reading it later.Sadly, I can't rate She and Allan any higher than 3 stars, due to the long, dull speeches and explanations of Ayesha.
Rider Haggard novel, I would have enjoyed it a good deal more.
It's a good book, but almost everything in it is a variation on other stuff Haggard had written.
However, my feelings about this are mixed, as I've never been a big fan of Haggard's SHE novels.
As per usual, the story is narrated from Allan's perspective, and his occasional racist comment or description will no doubt offend sensitive readers, as will his wanton killing--er, "hunting"--of a herd of hippopotami.On the book's plus side, it's got cannibals, crocodiles, magic talismans, the most beautiful woman in history, an enchanted axe, ancient prophecies, hidden cities, an epic battle, fortune-telling, and a journey to the land of the dead.
It was fate that Haggard's two most popular characters would meet (or, more accurately, clash) in an adventure novel set in the familiar central African city of Kor.
Perhaps because it seems so familiar, and contains basically all of the themes or tropes we expect from Haggard, it recedes into the background behind the works revolving around Ayesha which preceded it, namely, "Ayesha: The Return of She," and the absolutely brilliant novel "She."Yet this is not to say that "She and Allan" is a waste of time.
I found Haggard's description of Ayesha to be markedly different than in the earlier novels.
First published in serial form in 1919-20, this is late Haggard and sees him returning to characters he had made famous some decades earlier: the white hunter Allan Quatermain and the undying priestess Ayesha, and also the Zulu warrior Umslopogaas.
He admires the Zulu and particularly the noble Umslopogaas, but does not seem to see the Hottentots as entirely human.Haggard's influence is undeniable in the years since, with sword-and-sorcery writers such as Robert E Howard, the whole subgenre of the lost-race novel, as well as thriller writers such as Wilbur Smith, owing much to his mix of mysticism, violent action, and lurid description.
It is a somewhat grumpy Allan the reader encounters in She and Allan, a novel that brings together Haggard's two most enduring characters, Allan Quatermain and the ethereal Ayesha.
Despite the promise such a meeting might inspire, Haggard failed to produce anything near the quality of his earlier works that dealt with the two.
Ayesha plays the role of Allan's psychoanalyst, probing and testing him, albeit in unethical and deceitful ways.
We learn nothing new about either Allan or Ayesha.
We do not even learn anything new about Kor or the people of the lost civilization among whose remains dwells Ayesha.
শী, রিটারন অফ শী, অযালান কোয়াটারমেইন এই তিনটা বই পড়ার পর এই বইটা পড়লাম। একবার মনে হয় এটা আগে পড়ার দরকার ছিল, একবার মনে হয় না ঠিকই আছে, সমসযা কি। বড় বই পড়ার মূল সমসযা হল পুরো সময় ধরে মনযোগ ধরে রাখা কষটকর। পরায় ৪০০ পৃষঠার বই এর পরথম ৩০০ পৃষঠা ভালোই ছিল। শেষটা খুব একটা ভালো লাগে নি। না, শেষের দিকটা একদমই খারাপ না। হয়ত এডভেঞচার এর ভিতর দারশনিক কথাবারতা বেশি চলে আসছিল তাই। তবে সব মিলেয়ে কাহিনীটা দারুণ।
শী, রিটার্ন অফ শী, অ্যালান কোয়াটারমেইন এই তিনটা বই পড়ার পর এই বইটা পড়লাম। একবার মনে হয় এটা আগে পড়ার দরকার ছিল, একবার মনে হয় না ঠিকই আছে, সমস্যা কি। বড় বই পড়ার মূল সমস্যা হল পুরো সময় ধরে মনযোগ ধরে রাখা কষ্টকর। প্রায় ৪০০ পৃষ্ঠার বই এর প্রথম ৩০০ পৃষ্ঠা ভালোই ছিল। শেষটা খুব একটা ভালো লাগে নি। না, শেষের দিকটা একদমই খারাপ না। হয়ত এডভেঞ্চার এর ভিতর দার্শনিক কথাবার্তা বেশি চলে আসছিল তাই। তবে সব মিলেয়ে কাহিনীটা দারুণ।
Interesting story.
I liked it, but not as much as his other novels.The format didn't work as well as I thought it should have, Allan is too incredulous of anything not material and Ayesha is too otherworldly for them to mix together in a way that works as well as they do in their own novels.However, that said, Haggard gets to tell another adventure story that he does so well, he can expand on Ayesha's mercurial character and let Allan do what he does best in making the best of a bad situation and keeping his head on his shoulders.
Some of the best parts are when Haggard plays off of Ayesha the woman and Allan the man.
Ayesha, known as She-Who-Must-Be-Obeyed first appeared in serial form from 1896 to 1897 in the novel She: Along with King Solomon's Mines, which featured Allan Quartermain, She is Haggard's most popular and famous novel.
Batman Meets Superman or Godzilla versus King Kong or Alien versus Predator.
Ayesha is one of the awesome, kick-ass woman characters in Victorian literature, and I rated Wisdom's Daughter, the later written prequel set in Ancient Egypt five stars.
But this isn't one of his better novels and certainly not what as I'd recommend as an introduction to him--or Ayesha.
#11 in the Allan Quatermain African adventure sereis.
Wanting to learn if he can communicate with deceased loved ones, he meets with Zulu witch-doctor Zikali who sends Quatermain to a great white sorceress who rules a hidden kingdom far to the north, and charges Allan to take a message to her.
This is also the first novel in which She or Ayesha appears.
As usual, there is at least one major battle in which Quatermain fights against overwhelming odds.The story also contains a recurring story line in that Quatermain is faced with magic or otherwise supernatural forces which he fundamentally disbelieves in despite repeated encounters in various stories.
This is book 11 in the Allan Quatarmain series and (I believe) book 3 in the She series. It was a crossover of Haggard's two most popular characters, however this one just didn't have the same kick that the other She books had. I liked the Ayesha character, she was a strong female character in a time where strong female characters were in short supply, I'd recommend reading the She series in order. That way the reader can get to know Ayesha before this one.
Although it unites Haggards's two most popular characters, Allan and Ayesha, the book is predominantly of Allan's adventures. 3 stars only because you get to read about Ayesha again -- otherwise I'd rate it 2 because later in the book Allan's skepticism sounds more like stupidity to me. Looking forward to read the last book in "She" series. Hope to find more about Ayesha in it.
Not only is this, as noted by others, the weakest of the She novels I have read so far, but truly it was often unpleasant. Allan is a man of his time, for certain. He is a true to his core misogynist. His frequent comments of the weakness and flaws of all women is at best distracting, and at worst disruptive, of what could have been a decent adventure tale.
I anticipated this as going to be a drag, but was surprised. It's interesting to 'watch' Quatermain try to match wits with Ayesha, to say the least. Now I think I'll have to re-read She just to see how these two match up.
Sir Haggard at his descriptive best with two of his most famous characters Allan Quatermain & Ayesha...what else do you need?
Not one of Haggards best probably answering some public desire to put his most famous characters in one book
a different perspective from She.......
A fun read, but too little attention on She and too much on Sahib Quatermain and the killing of various things. My least favorite of the She series.
An entertaining read about supernatural beings, earthly inhabitants and their journey in Quartermain's life.
One of the three books featuring Allen Quartermain and She.
