https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45286.The_Complete_Poems
I loved this book much more on a reread than I did 30 years ago.
I wonder who I was then that I didn't appreciate this book as it deserves!
Anyway, I'm very glad that I've continued to read and reread it.
Obviously, something continued to draw me to it.
While I do think there are many flaws in some of his poems and some are definitely great than others, I his work as a whole as brilliant and powerfully impacting American literature.
It's one of those books that lead me to read differently than I did before reading it.
Poems Excluded from Leaves of Grass--Great Are the Myths--Poem of Remembrances for a Girl or a Boy of These States--Think of the Soul--Respondez!--[In the New Garden]--[Who is Now Reading This?]--[I Thought That Knowledge Alone Would Suffice]--[Hours Continuing Long]--[So Far, and So Far, and On Toward the End]--Thoughts -- 6: 'Of What I Write'--Says--Apostroph--O Sun of Real Peace--To You--Now Lift Me Close--To the Reader at Parting--Debris--[States!]--Bathed in War's Perfume--Solid, Ironical, Rolling Orb--Not My Enemies Ever Invade Me--This Day, O Soul--Ashes of Soldiers: Epigraph--One Song, America, Before I Go--Souvenirs of Democracy--From My Last Years--In Former Songs--The Beauty of the Ship--After an Interval--Two Rivulets--Or, from That Sea of Time--As in a Swoon--Lessons--[Last Droplets]--Ship Ahoy!--For Queen Victoria's Birthday--L of G--After the Argument--For Us Two, Reader Dear
"Out of the cradle endlessly rocking,Out of the mockingbirds throat, the musical shuttle,Out of the Ninth-month midnight ......Simple, visceral words phrased in long steady breaths -- a human meter. i could read this collection over and over. actually i do and so do my students and always there is one in the class who loves it as much as i do -- maybe more.uncle walt -- omisexual super poet of the body, soul, and mind.
في قصيدة واحدة.أحببت بشدة تأملة للحياة، من أقصاها وحتى أخمصها، من أقلها وحتى أكثرها، ومن أكثرها عقدة، وحتى أكثرها بساطة، شاعر يملك روح متأملة من الدرجة الأولى، تظهر لنا هذه الروح جليّة في عبارته " اؤمن بأن ورقة العشب، ليست أقل من حركة النجوم" ولا غرو أني لم اكن اعرف عن هذا الشاعر من قبل، لأن كل ما قادني إليه هو الكاتب غازي القصيبي حيث ذكره في أحد رواياته، غير ذلك، لم اجد له أثرا في أحد الكتب، أو على ألسنة القراء.
Whitman’s vision of mystic unity informs a generous sympathy expressed in long lines, chants, and lists. The flip side is a lack of analytic discrimination.

Whitman starts off in a grandiose and expansive style and never shifts from it, staying in the highest possible register at all times. While his poems are individually titled they form a single mass of life-affirmation and Whitman's own style of patriotism and religious devotion.Most interesting to me is Whitman's highly ambiguous attitude to gender and sexuality. He calls for equality, and reveals an odd mixture of traditional and progressive views. His motifs sometimes recall Spartan ideals. Homosexual notes are sounded with an unwilling sincerity.
I can never sing Whitmans praises enough, the man was a genius before his time - he knew, profoundly, that we are all one and are all connected and that all is just experience..."Clear and sweet is my soul, and clear and sweet is all that is not my soul. Lack one lacks both, and the unseen is proved by the seen, Till that becomes unseen and receives proof in its turn."Mystic, poetic soul, lover of everything, God.
I have read some Whitman and I liked it. I have by no means read enough to give it any honest judgment, but I would like to read more, which I can only say for a few of the poets I've read, which likely reflects on my poor appreciation for poetry as a medium but my enjoyment of topics that resonate with my interests. what can I say, I'm selfish.
What can you say about Walt Whitman. He was a genius. His writing is beautiful and human. He undertands mankind. Not all of his poems are masterpieces; that is the down side of buying complete works, but with some writers you don't want to miss a word. He is one of those.
I got sidetracked with this while I was trying to finish Mistborn 3. Whitman has been on the brain lately so I pulled out my book and have been reading it off and on for a month. I can't say I have read every page, but I have read most of it over the course of years. Oh me! Oh life!
You gave me several books for my 50th and this is one of them.
That’s ok, it’s not a book.
It’s to be read, word for word, as opportune allows.
I have always been a fan of rhythm and rhyme; I love the bush poetry of Patterson.
This is the first time I really read any free verse.
Free from the constraints of cadence and rhyme and I found it almost invigorating.
Took awhile, but I finally finished. I think I'm going to start reading it again immediately.
I have been in the process of reading, The Complete Poems, by Walt Whitman and I have not regretted a single page. His book contains every poem he has written and is great for someone who is looking to learn more about Walt Whitman. My book is marked with lots of annotations from reading and his wisdom is beyond my years. He is hands down one of my favorite poets. I highly recommend this book.
La poesía de Walt Witman tiene el poder de mirar dentro de nosotros mismos y encontrar belleza por donde quiera que uno mire. Su escritura suelta, honesta, imprecisa, y orgánica, captura el alma de las letras. Éste es uno de mis libros favoritos, es una edición muy fácil de cargar, liviana, manipulable y lo mejor de todo es que está en su idioma original.
Uncle Walt! You are my god.
There's nothing to like about Whitman's poetry.
poems about nature, sex, life, death... pretty rad.
I first encountered Walt Whitman through my reading of a first-edition version of Leaves of Grass back in April.
And while his poems did not overturn organized religion and create a religion of Personality, nor did they free the culture from patriarchy and the suppression of sex, I believe that the best of Whitman's works accomplish easily at least two of his numerous goals: they stir life within the reader, inspiring instead of lecturing, urging the reader to find within themselves that which is their truth, and secondly they document in complexity the life and thoughts of a single soul living at a single point in time.
Whitman's poetry was an effort to reach out across space and time and make a connection to the reader, and with his leaves he has done that and so much more.
A very, very, very, very long winded patriot - insert praises for every single state of the union, region, city...etc. here - who aired ideas, attitudes and opinions loudly in his works about the state of his nation that weren't always consistent with the reality for many who lived in America at the time. Other than that, the descriptions seemed a little protracted.
Whitman is amazing.I can see why everyone in the literary world is influenced by him; he is absolutely incredible.Reading some of his poems I could see clearly where future authors have referenced him which was fun to spot. A lot of his poetry did remind me a little bit of Ginsberg so it was nice to see where Ginsberg got his inspiration from.
أوراق العشب لشاعر أمريكا والت ويتمان احتفال بالحياة بالحب بتفتح الطاقات الإنسانية هي الإنسان الفرح بالشمس والأرض والنجوم وزرقة السماءوالرياح وموج البحر المبتهج برفقته الإنسانية ..هي الحلم بالوطن بالحرية شعر حر ، ولغة شعرية بسيطة مألوفة تخرج من نسق الحياة اليومية  إلى جسد القصيدة مباشرة
I could not get into it.With one or two exceptions, I found his work boring and opaque.
Are you the new person drawn toward me?To begin with, take warning, I am surely far different from what you suppose;Do you suppose you will find in me your ideal?Do you think it so easy to have me become your lover?Do you think the friendship of me would be unalloy’d satisfaction?Do you think I am trusty and faithful?Do you see no further than this façade, this smooth and tolerant manner of me?Do you suppose yourself advancing on real ground toward a real heroic man?Have you no thought, O dreamer, that it may be all maya, illusion?
Walt Whitman's greatest strength, as they appeared to me, was his ability to exemplify the great romantic ideology of America during the Nineteenth Century.That being said, when it came to Walt's personal poems they, he said, were about himself, I really have this aching feeling that he is writing about a character of himself more than his honest self. I might be way off, but I simply have that hunch.Ultimately, I simply prefer contemporary poetry over the longer-lined poems of Mr. Whitman.
About as complete a compilation as one could ask for. Very good. No, I haven't read the whole thing - its quite long, and I'm against reading poetry as text. But its easy access on my shelf and I'll be able to grab it at any time for some inspiration - - whenever I need a shot of "pride" in my Western/American heritage.
While I enjoyed many of Whitman's poems, I most enjoyed reading Whitman's musings at age 71 on his motivations for writing Leaves of Grass. Understanding where he was coming from made me appreciate his work all the more, even poems that didn't otherwise speak to me - and I found his motivations to be fascinating.
Whitman is one of my favorite poets. Such virtuosity and grace, yet the subjects are rugged, vague, and natural. He is able to melt his very thoughts and splatter them onto the page, his emotions dripping from his pen. I can see it in my head, and it makes perfect sense. The free verse is just that- liberating from conventionality.
There are some poems here that resonate so much, that even time cannot wear-out. In the same way, there are some poems that are completely lost on me, and the ego of our protagonist, Whitman, can sometimes prove for a difficult read. Nonetheless, the good poems clearly outweigh those that I did not like, and I firmly believe that there is something in here that can captivate everyone.
Another collection of poetry that I have enjoyed sporadically. It's been a real journey, getting to know this poet/author that is so admired and revered by many great literary figures... and Walter White, of course. Hope to one day have a hard copy so I can share these poems with others easier.
