https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/461650.The_Arrow_of_Gold
This may sound weird, but the story itself I found to be a slow read at times, however the author is almost like a painter of words.
I really have never read a book that kept my attention solely by the use of the english language but I loved the way he was able to describe people or scenery!
Very interesting as this book was written in the 1900's to see the differences of the use of the english language.
What I found even more interesting is that english was not his first language.
The experience of reading a Conrad novel is the same every time.
Or as he puts it,"It is the subtleties of personalities, and contacts, and events, that count for interest and memory."There is something from every Conrad I have read that has stayed with me, sometimes the big event - Jim jumped - and sometimes just a tiny description or incident - in this one, I think it may be the final appearance of the Arrow of Gold itself.
And if that makes you want to read this book and find out what that means, then that's excellent.
When I read Conrad, I feel like I'm in his world. He's truly a writer, and he has such heart. His native language is Polish, and I don't know enough to know why he chose to write in English, but I feel lucky that he did. Hunter Thompson said he learned to write by typing pages from Conrad's books on his typewriter. I love that image, and I'm glad to have read this.
Aimless
The lovers are only united when Rita’s hypocritical nun-like sister allows a jealous admirer of Rita (from her peasant days) in the house, and George protects her.
However, after George is injured in a duel with Blunt, Rita deserts him again.To take the first of the two points that I began with, the story is almost resolutely non-political.
Many characters are introduced, only to pass off the pages without really contributing much, leaving a good many loose ends.This puts the emphasis on the love affair between George and Rita, and this is hardly a strength in the book.
It is one of his last books, and differs from most all of his earlier ones in that there is very little forward movement in the plot.
Basically, it is set in the 1870s, and involves a plot to unseat the Bourbon Alfonso and replace him with Don Carlos.
Conrad spends a lot of time describing her at the expense of any action in the story.
This book is atypical of Conrad’s writing and usual themes.
Unless you are a completest or a student of the period, you will have a tough time making it through.
I love Conrad and have read most of his major novels, but I never got around to this one until now. It's considered one of his lesser works, and now I know why. It's supposedly a romantic tale of adventure, but there's an awful lot of sitting around talking, eloquently and at great length, about feelings and perceptions. Conrad wrote that his task was "...before all, to make you see." Somehow he lost sight of that in this one.
In the last chapter, "Second Note", the author says discusses a book saying that it "might appear merely a lot of vapid verbiage in the morning." That's what this books seemed to be. I couldn't follow the story until the third part! It was not what I was expecting, since Joseph Conrad was a sea captain, & I expected a sea story, not a love story!
The first 2/3 were plodding, the last, however, was well worth the effort! An exciting and acceptable conclusion
Suppose you wanted to write a novel about your experience falling in love with a woman adored by everyone for her strange beauty and charm, but older and more experienced than you.
Monsieur George has absolutely no interest in running guns, but has absolutely some interest in running IlseDona Rita!So it then becomes a romance novel, with not a lot of Conradian plots.
There are a lot of almost turgid drawing room scenes where I could swear the grey old lady Henry James was dictating into the ear of Joseph - so much not being said in all that being said.
Arrow of Gold loses a star for me because I found I was getting bogged down in the intricacies of the relationship between Monsieur George and Dona Rita.
Sometimes the emotions of love is a difficult thing to explain, and the feelings of both characters must be taken into account.Set against the background of the third Carlist war, our man 'Monsieur George'(Joseph Conrad; this is based on a true story) is a sea-faring adventurer who takes on the risky business of running guns from France into Spain.
One of the supporters of the Carlist cause is Dona Rita, a beautiful woman with a sketchy past and a large inherited fortune.
I’ve read four novels by Joseph Conrad (Heart of Darkness, Lord Jim, Almayer’s Folly and The Secret Agent).
The Arrow of Gold is a love story with the focus on characterization.
Set in Marseille in the 1870s during the Third Carlist War the story is a love triangle which comprises the unnamed young narrator, Doña Rita and the Confederate veteran Captain Blunt.
Doña Rita finances the operations of the narrator's vessel, Tremolino which smuggles ammunition to the Carlist army.
She was a complete mystery to me as she was to the narrator.
This is not my favorite Conrad book.
He can't even make up his mind whether he wants the second to be a "what happened to them after the end of the novel" or not, and lapses from such a start of the second note into a third person final chapter of the novel complete with dialog.The plot is full of cliches instead of deep character portrayals, and even more heavily in the ending.
I suggest you read many other Conrad novels before this one for that same style, and if like me you find you can't stop yourself from reading all his works, you will eventually reach and be disappointed by this one.
I enjoyed this book.
It's more a picture than a real story, the portrait of a woman who captured the heart of the writer (written in the first person) and his own reactions to that capture.
A little on the fatalistic side but interesting in its portrayal of the time and place.Most of the characters are warm and vivid; Madame Léonore was my favorite although she has a small role.
He brings very realistic, very human traits to his stage while at the same time holding them up to be admirable and inspiring.
Well-written - certain descriptions are unbeatable.
Certainly, not Conrad's best work. If you haven't read Conrad before, don't start with this book. I thought the setting descriptions and the characters were well written and really give you a sense of actually being a direct witness to the events. I found the end to be disappointing. In his other novels, he gives you excellent character descriptions and builds a really dramatic story around it. This novel lacked that dramatic style that I expected. I recommend Victory, The Rescue, and Heat of Darkness.
I never thought I would say this about a Conrad novel, but this one's an overwrought drawing-room romance. There's still some amazing writing in it, but there's not much story. It reads like a first novel, which is weird, because it's supposedly one of his later ones. My guess is he dug out an old manuscript that he hadn't been able to sell until he got really famous for all the good novels he wrote. Unless you're a die-hard Conrad fan like me, read one of those instead.
The Arrow of Gold [1919]. I'm almost sure this book is very out of print. It was Conrad's try at War time pulp fiction. His publisher probably pushed him into writing it. This story has the classic subtle Conrad Punch line and some people hate him for that! It's actually an interesting story and probably way before it's time! Not one of my favorite Conrad's though!You can read "The Arrow of Gold: online: http://ebooks.adelaide.edu.au/c/conra...
A different and interesting 'love story'. The story pulled me into the late 1800's, the time of the Carlist war. Although there is some action and the hero matures through the events, the work is really a sketch of a semi-mysterious lady and her relationship with the hero that develops and becomes recognized as love.
A semi-autobiographical account of a sailor in his twenties falling in love; written from the heart and prompting me to read Goethe's Sorrows of Young Werther. Actually I found Goethe to be even more moving because of Charlotte's involvement with her younger siblings which made her seem head and shoulders above Madame Lastaola.
There are some superb lines in this book, typical Conrad stuff, and his attempt at less of a plot and more a vast lump of feelings was enjoyable. However, people often moan how confusing my books can be - try reading this, especially the first part!
P
I thoroughly enjoyed "Heart of Darkness"; however I wasn't able to finish this one.
A little too long for the admittedly terrific ending.
I found this to be an 'odd' story. I did like the set up and the ending, but the middle seemed muddled - but that was the protagonist's life.
I didn't enjoy this one as much as Heart of Darkness and don't really recommend it as it was hard work to read.
