https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19133.The_Politics_of_Jesus
I don't usually review books that I didn't finish, but in this case I thought the reason I didn't finish it was relevant to a review.Yoder asserts that complete non-violence is an ethical imperative for every follower of Jesus.
His book seems instead focused on achieving a particular goal by whatever literary means possible.
Fairness to others is a requirement in life; it is not, apparently, a requirement in writing theology.All of this is common in scholarship, and I probably wouldn't comment on it in most books.
Maybe Yoder is right, and the refusal to regard our personal welfare is an essential part of a righteous life.
And his call to his followers to emulate him with the idea of spontaneous unconditional love for others (I know, right, white-guy America?
In fact, as Yoder points out, there are lots of arguments and exegesis trying to justify all the shit that Christ didn't say, but little attention paid to him as a daring, revolutionary social critic who thought, shit, why can't everyone just get along?You don't need to be any kind of religious person to appreciate this work, which nicely and snugly places J.C. into the pantheon of socially radical nice guys throughout history.
Corollary: to practice the Sabbath without practicing deliverance and Jubilee is not to practice the Sabbath.(3) The point of OT violence was not violence, but that God acts to save his people without their needing to act (76-77).(4) Jesus’s kingdom is not simply “internal” but is outward and social.(5) The universe was made in an ordered form and is called “good” (141).Be that as it may, Yoder insists “we have no access to the good creation of God” (141).
Yoder wants to posit a good creation with good structures (as he should), but given Romans 13 and the fact that God commanded wars in the Old Testament, how can one then critique Just War Theory and the use of the sword?~3.
So we finished the book, and I was glad in the way that I finish a tough workout, not that I enjoyed it, but am glad that I did it and feel better for having endured, and then we looked Yoder up on Wikipedia to try to figure out how the book fits into his life's work and why (?) it's considered to be so great, and it happened to mention the sexual allegations against him.Whaaa...?We dug deeper.
He was apparently trying to come to some new sexual ethic within the church, and tried it out with students, colleagues, women in the church, women at conferences, lots and lots of women.
So angry that I don't really care what he has to say about ethics (insert derisive snort!) or what he might say about the politics of Jesus.
Yoder, first of all, convinces completely that this form of life was political in character (crucifixion, of course, was a political death), and he's pretty convincing too on Jesus' complete non-violence (through his rejection of the Zealot option).
What that means is that, through the resurrection, the church has a foretaste ("first fruits," as Paul says) of the ultimate hope of a new heaven and a new earth, and as Jesus as its true sovereign (not Caesar), and that Christian identity is to life in this world acknowledging this Lordship and this ultimate hope, through non-violent resistance.
(In fact Yoder encompasses violence under a larger umbrella called "the compulsiveness of purpose that leads the strong to violate the dignity of others.") He counterposes this position against a number of more "classic" interpretations, which include interpreting Jesus' life in only metaphysical terms or assuming that he simply represents an ideal type which is so unreachable as to be non-normative.While I found the book interesting throughout, by far the most insightful part for me was Chapter 8, "Christ and Power".
This to me was a very powerful image, and Yoder provides a strong interpretation of the meaning of the life of Jesus with regard to these Powers.
I have exhausted my reading of Christian pacifists.
As I said in an earlier book review (Toward a Theology of Peace), I'm all for peace, but let's not kid ourselves about who God is or the world He made for us to live in.
I would have much more respect for Christian pacifists who lived in places like, say, Pakistan.
They would really have an opportunity to live out their ideals there, since Christians are routinely brutalized, murdered, have their children stolen and sold into sexual slavery, and are not allowed to own anything.
Ultimately, though, the Bible is a book that you yourself will have to wrestle with, interpret, and live with.
Reading it 30 years later I found the book much more understandable which says much more about me and where I was at in college than it does about John Howard Yoder and his writing.
If I understand him correctly, Yoder states that we should read the New Testament through the person of Jesus and that we should pay attention to the political dimensions of his message.
Those who believe Jesus and the early church had something to say to the social and political structures of their day, and by extension, the structures of today will find this book to be thought provoking and stimulating.
After some interesting examples of nonviolence in Jesus' day, showing such an idea was possible (chapter 5), he moves on to look at other parts of the New Testament.
Yoder challenges this dichotomy, arguing that Paul's ethic is completely in line with Jesus (chapters 6-7).
But the point is that all are equal in Christ, yet in certain cultural contexts Christians submit just as Christ did.Yoder continues looking at Paul in chapters ten and eleven.
Yoder's point is clear: Christians are called to live an ethic like that of Jesus which is a life of radical nonviolence.
Yoder points out that the very nature of what it means to truly follow Jesus will be counter-cultural and will go against the grain of what the financial and political institutions of the world are striving for.
A follower of Jesus responds to persecution in a non-violent way by blessing those who are persecuting him/her (Roman 12:21 , 1 Peter 3:9).The most impactful insight I got from this book is that we often confuse subordination with submission or subjection when reading the "be subject to the authorities" passages in the New Testament (Romans 13:1; 1 Peter 2:13).
Yoder's study, at the very minimum, demonstrates that Jesus was enacting a new political strategy for liberation through faithful non-violence, that did have the expectation of actuallly "working." Jesus was not being a hopeless idealist or just an evangelical soul-saver.Many baulk at pacifism.
But, as I recommend to my congregation, Christianity's "default setting" is a skepticism against the all notions of "justifiable" war (How rare is that actually the case, when we get through the fog of propaganda!) as well as a commitment to non-violence and even self-renunciation (the way of the cross) as the means to bring peace.
The Jesus that emerges from Yoder’s reading is a stridently political figure, an insurrectionist who, proclaiming a coming order (the terminology of Basileia tou Theou or “Kingdom of God” could not but have political connotation), was crucified as a threat to the Romans.
And nothing here would be really controversial to New Testament scholars, of which Yoder’s work is merely popularizing.
Yoder, as a theologian, basically relates this reading of the historical Jesus and applies it to social ethics.
Yoder also has little time for the theological readings of Jesus that have employed hermeneutical stratagems to dilute the sharpness of Jesus’ ethics.
For any on the Left or Right who want to use political power to further their social agenda, or who (more likely) are manipulated by the "powers" (politicians, ideologies, structures, etc.) to sanctify means and goals potentially not so worthy of Jesus, this is a good book for taking a second look at things.Yoder's chief problem is in beginning with his assumptions related to church history, the "purity" of the gospel and the early church in contrast to "post-Constantine," and his Radical Reformation background - and interpreting the Scriptures through these assumptions rather than letting the Scriptures speak for themselves.
But most "liberal" Christians who have an Enlightenment worldview will likely not agree with much of Yoder's book either.When I finished read this book a few minutes ago, it dawned on me that probably the worldview of many contemporary Christians is formed far more on the basis of what they hear on CNN (or, God forbid, on Fox News) or read in "Time" or "Newsweek" than on the basis of what they read and understand about the Bible.
Since being published in 1972 this book has been widely recognized as an explanation of anabaptist theology.
The book makes the case that Jesus had a social agenda that proclaimed the cause of a new society while not using violence to achieve those ends which in turn resulted in his crucification -- a punishment used for political rebels.
This view of Jesus is generally accepted as being compatible with the thinking of anabaptist Christians because of its emphasis on how Christians live their lives in this world; as opposed to considering the message of Jesus to be strictly spiritual and not concerned with earthly injustices.The Politics of Jesus was ranked by evangelical publication Christianity Today as the 5th most important Christian book of the 20th century.
I moved between liking this book and not liking it.
On the one hand, Yoder is an able thinker and writer who has great faith in the power of God to change people/places by the alternative witness of the church in society.
On the other hand, I don't see how forming what amounts to convents and monateries affects the public at-large.
I know he insists that it's not sectarianims that he's talking about, but I'm not clear on how his vision works out in the world of laws, law enforcement, and war.I think John Stackhouse makes some VERY worthwhile counterpoints to Yoder (see Making the Best of It: Following Christ in the Real World).
(Hauerwas, of course, would never claim that American theology will be forever divided into "pre-Hauerwas" and "post-Hauerwas," and perhaps his ethical integrations of Yoder's insights will last longer than Yoder's own influence...?)It is a sad situation because Hauerwas' praise is so thoroughly merited: The Politics of Jesus is a theological-ethical masterwork in every way, rhetorically discrete and socially savvy.
Yoder's sexual philandering (and more) was more than just a simple moral failure of a man who presumed himself "great" (like Heidegger's egoism), or than the oft-seen tragedy of infidelity that emerges when thinkers and leaders separate themselves time-and-again from their wives (like Barth's affair).
Yoder's arguments are very compelling and now I understand why many Christians believe the church cannot support war at all in any circumstances. Yoder first argues that Jesus is socially relevant and that the way we are called to be like him is in the realm of social ethics. He concludes by explaining that we are called to the way of the cross, which means giving up any attempt to take control of history and instead obey in a radical way by submitting to suffering.
Great book for all those who, like me, grew up learning that Jesus primarily wanted to cultivate inner goodness in people. Instead, this book examines how Jesus' ethics were social and political by nature, and that it was always his intention that his followers have a correspondingly challenging, integrated ethic--both inward and outward. SUCH a good read!
Possibly the most influential book in my spiritual development thus far... its value lies its cunning exposure of some very fundamental assumptions that we make when approaching God and determining what he wants from us. Do not get side-tracked by his seemingly simplistic agenda towards non-violence. It is more nuanced than it appears at first look.
A little repetitive and overly academic at times, but this is a very thorough and convincing book explaining the social relevance of Jesus, something I never thought much about before.
In doing so, Yoder turns the tables on Christian realism by claiming that if pacifism is irrelevant to social ethics, so too is Jesus, for he consistently refused to rely on violence to control his own fate.
Niebuhr used this against pacifist claims, since he saw imitating early Christian ethics as being therefore inadmissible to contemporary ethical inquiry – the world has not passed away as expected, so Jesus must not have anticipated or respected societal need for survival.
I read this book back in the mid 70's. I was still of draft age and the Vietnam War was still outstanding in my mind. Although I never adopted the pacifist stand that its Anabaptist author advocates it is still one of the best expositions of Christian pacifism written for the general Christian reader. Yoder makes a very good argument that this is authentic Christianity. This book still stands up today as one of the clearest presentations of that view. I was always too much a pragmatist and, perhaps an existentialist to follow Yoder though.
A frustrating mish-mash of theological kites
This is thick reading. It is also highly valuable. I had to read this text in small pieces, because the time it took me to digest the truth that I was reading was considerable. It was a deeply enriching experience, and I imagine I will have to come back to this book again to catch all the things that I know I missed the first time. The stance which Yoder takes on pacifism and practical gospel living are revolutionary.
Look, this is probably a good book. I quit in the middle of it because Yoder doesn't use enough commas, and I believe his insistence of Jesus as the proto-social justice warrior was far too rigid and constraining, ultimately undermining the divinity of Christ in a weird way. Mostly because of the lack of commas, though. I'll probably try it again at some point.
Approaching this Gospel passage, I understood that Christ's condemnation of the Pharisees was not in response to their failure to redistribute wealth in the year of jubilee, but rather that they believed that the ordinances of tithing would be enough to achieve “righteousness, goodness, and good faith”.
I do not believe that Christ, in this passage, is calling for some great redistribution of wealth, but rather trying to teach His Apostles and disciples that the Kingdom of God and Salvation cannot be obtained through following rigorously a set of laws.
I was challenged by Yoder's call to see nonviolent actions and other Christ-dictated responses not as the most effective means for getting the results we think we want, but as the means that are most in line with the people God wants us to be and the way the universe should work.
I also saw more places in which Jesus thoughtfully rejected the ways of the world, instead choosing the way of God. Yoder's theme of "God fights for us" as a means of understanding the focus of the Old Testament was fascinating.
With the second edition one would think that the editors would have cleaned up the writing - JHY added more clarification using Epilogues at the end of each chapter for some relief - or but simply rewrite the entire book to make a more “reader-friendly” text.Having said that, I did come away with positive understanding of Jesus’ temptations at the start of his ministry and how those temptations followed him throughout his ministry ending at the cross.
With reservation I do recommend The Politics of Jesus but the reader needs to understand that the book is not “reader-friendly.” I believe that the reader will come away with nuggets of wisdom and insight to further reflect and pursue through Bible study.
When it was first published in 1972, The Politics of Jesus offered a radical re-reading of the early Church’s political stance based on the best New Testament scholarship of the day.
When Jesus states that ‘if anyone does not hate father and mother … he cannot be my disciple’ (Luke 14:26), Yoder argues that ‘in a society characterized by very stable, religiously undergirded family ties, Jesus is here calling into being a community of voluntary commitment, willing for the sake of its calling to take upon itself the hostility of the given society’.
‘The cross is not a detour or a hurdle on the way to the kingdom’, Yoder writes, ‘nor it is even the way to the kingdom; it is the kingdom come’.Read my full review here: https://wordsbecamebooks.com/2017/02/...
