https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18892268-simple-sabotage-field-manual
Good, albeit somewhat outdated text on simple sabotage to be executed by ordinary individuals under occupation.
The basic idea here is that even tiny acts of sabotage are beneficial to the opposition if done in large numbers.
Essentially anything of value to a government can be sabotaged, but doing so requires a little boldness and a little reversal from the normal, social, conservative habits which pretty much everyone has.
One thing which surprised me in this text was how much feigning stupidity, laziness, overcaution, or other mental states can aid in sabotage.
There is actually a fair amount of humor or implicit humor in this text.
A simple little book, aimed at allies occupied by Germany, explaining simple things that citizens can do to hamper the Nazi war effort. Not an exciting book, but the implicit lesson is sabotage does not have to be flashy -- blowing up ammunition trains, etc. It can be about shorting a power-line, putting sand in some machine, and so on.
This is the question explored by this actual World War II manual: the idea is that an average, ordinary citizen can significantly handicap the enemy through simple acts of sabotage, with minimal fear of punishment or retribution.
Some of my favorite suggestions include setting loose moths during propaganda films (they'll congregate on the projector, making it impossible to see the film) and using an old sponge to ruin a sewage system (you'll have to read the manual to find out the details on that one).
I'd be interested to know how much this manual was put into practice, and how much sabotage was used against foreign occupiers in Europe during World War II.
Never hesitate to make a few appropriate "patriotic" comments.(3) When possible, refer all matters to committees, for "further study and consideration." Attempt to make the committees as large as possible — never less than five.(4) Bring up irrelevant issues as frequently as possible.(5) Haggle over precise wordings of communications, minutes, resolutions.(6) Refer back to matters decided upon at the last meeting and attempt to re-open the question of the advisability of that decision.*****(10) To lower morale and with it, production, be pleasant to inefficient workers; give them undeserved promotions.
i swear to god ive met people who mustve been time travelling saboteurs from fucking 1944 because this level of incompetence takes skill and dedication
One (long) sentence review:You should say "I solemnly swear that I am up to no good." when you will be opening this book, its a fascinating read, but, utterly useless.
While the acts of sabotage in the Manual may not appear that detrimental to the enemy on their own, when multiple people take actions, their cumulative effect may be heavily influence the outcome of a battle.The Simple Sabotage Field Manual does in-fact provide methods of simple sabotage for regular citizen such as preventing engines from running by adding simple liquids such as water, urine, and wine (30) or destruction or crops and livestock at one’s farm that may supply the enemy (39).
The "Simple Sabotage Field Manual" was originally a classified document created by the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), the predecessor to the modern CIA, to be distributed to field agents.
This was a very interesting read for me personally, because my great grandfather was a field agent for the OSS during WWII, where he was stationed in Madrid.
These methods include being lazy, slow, creating excuses, wasting company time, making an excessive amount of people approve documents than are needed, using tools improperly, and so on.
These examples are relative to modern business, because employees that practice these methods, whether knowingly or unknowingly, are causing their companies to be inefficient.
More relevant to today's business student are the detailed descriptions of how to interfere with the proper functioning of an organization.
The astute business student can read this section of the book in the same vein as The Screwtape Letters by C.S. Lewis in which an enterprising devil, Screwtape, advises his nephew on how to undermine a Christian's faith.
We are told "never to pass on your skill and experience to a new or less skillful worker." On the one hand, you can't be fired if you can't be replaced, but you also can't be promoted if you can't be replaced either.This book is a fun read, although dated at times; and it provides one action that is guaranteed to sabotage any environment, at work or at home - "forget to provide paper in toilets."
The book Simple Sabotage Field Manual is a book that is filled with many different ways to throw off a wrench (no pun intended) in operations that scale from 1944 World War to Businesses today.
"Simple Sabotage Field Manual originally" originally was a classified manual given to field agents to help in any way sabotage the Axis powers.
this book mainly focuses on step-by-step and/or scenarios for sabotage A bunch of what this says about sabotaging axis powers really disguises how much of this can be used for businesses and relationships in todays world.
The whole point of reading this book was to learn about how to execute sabotage and the potential effects that might take place afterwards.
I do however feel that the writer made a good point as to how small acts become increasingly effective once multiplied by a few thousand.
The office does a good job of pointing out human nature and how to manipulate this in order to create mass sabotage efforts.
Although the book made strong points to support the most effective ways to pursue simple sabotage, I found it to be a boring read that had contrasting views compared to my own.
This manual gave lots of examples like mixing urine to make a car not work or switching lenses on lights.
Since this is meant for when someone is behind enemy lines, some of the examples are high risk.
There are times where reading you may feel this reminds you of a friend who would do something along the lines of the sabotage or have seen it in the world place.
Over all, I think people running businesses would like reading this book because it brings to light some ideas of things they might or do see in their own company that are cause for concern.
This book is an interesting read because it keeps you interested when reading about the little tricks and in's and out's of sabotage.
When I was reading about the “Specific Suggestions for Simple Sabotage,” the suggestions it listed seemed realistic.
It says to let cutting tools grow dull because it will slow down production, be inefficient, and may damage the material and parts the saboteur uses them on.
I would think it would be the opposite, and that the saboteur would want their cutting tools to be sharp.
The Simple Sabotage Field Manual was more of a “how-to” rather than your typical storybook.
I found the manual very interesting because it gave people instructions on how to use the resources around them to sabotage others.
The manual relates closely to business in the modern era because not only can you use the manual as a guideline on how to sabotage a business, but you can also use it as a way to identify a dysfunctional business.
Overall, the book is a great read!
Although not recommended, one can definitely use it as a way to negatively affect/sabotage anything or any place.
The Simple Sabotage Field Manual was a book written for people against the Axis Powers or Nazis in World War II.
Although it may be slightly outdated at times, a majority of the book still provides a plethora of useful information and tactics to ruin anyone’s day, even in modern times.
For instance, the books tells saboteurs soak a sponge in sugar water, round it into a ball, and when it dries, flush it down a toilet to have the sponge expand and clog the sewer lines.
In conclusion, the book provides an informative look into World War II tactics of sabotage, and it gives readers a way of thinking for sabotage of their own.
The Simple Sabotage Field Manual is a book written for people who were against the Axis Powers during World War II.
The manual is a great tool that teaches people how to use their resources to create simple strategies that will sabotage the enemy.
Even though this book was written for citizens involved in World War II, the strategies provided by this manual can be useful in today's society.
Strategies like that can still be used in today's society and once again all of those resources are easily accessible.The Simple Sabotage Manual is a very interesting read and can also be applied to businesses in the modern era.
I like reading World War II books and watching World War II documentaries/movies when I come across ones that seem interesting.
Before reading this, I had never heard of the Simple Sabotage Field Manual.
From purposefully making bad decisions to hinder the performance of business operations to throwing glass in the road to slash vehicle tires, the Simple Sabotage Field manual had everything.
I am glad that I got to read this piece and recommend it to anyone who enjoys the World War II era like me.
This field manual provides citizens with a myriad of options and techniques in regards to the sabotage of the enemy.
This field manual provides a great glimpse into structural damage as it highlights how many small actions can ultimately slow and damage a larger system.The same can be said in business situations.
If a large group of employees decreased their productivity by a small amount, or they chose to make more mistakes or damage equipment, these would definitely have an effect on the company.
The only known collaboration of Franz Kafka and Jaroslav Hasek, this short story is widely regarded as the best piece of writing the two have published, albeit posthumously.
On the other side of the spectrum, the piece is heavily snubbed by Harold Bloom in The Western Canon, being called "an unfortunate accident from two otherwise great writers." In a short essay published in The New Yorker, James Wood labels The Simple Sabotage Field Manual as mere "hysterical absurdism." Wood also blames the piece's success on the widely promoted Broadway musical "Saboteurs," a show written and directed by Tim Minchin, which is loosely based on the story.
Si alguien escribiera un libro hoy en día con estos mismos tópicos, se pensaría que es sátira, porque va muy en línea con un libro como 100 Tricks to Appear Smart in Meetings: How to Get By Without Even Trying.Se trata de cosas tan sencillas que pueden sabotear totalmente una organización sin el menor esfuerzo. El problema es que en muchas organizaciones altamente burocráticas es precisamente lo que ocurre, sin la intención de que ocurra.Este manual tendría que ser leído por todos los MBA como una serie de recetas de los "don't" en las organizaciones. Ojalá algo cambiase.
Very interesting historically, some is a little outdated. Most of it look like prank, other is about being incompetent at work.
(2) Make "speeches." Talk as frequently as possible and at great length.
(3) When possible, refer all matters to committees, for "further study and consideration." Attempt to make the committees as large as possible — never less than five.
(4) Bring up irrelevant issues as frequently as possible.
(5) Haggle over precise wordings of communications, minutes, resolutions.(6) Refer back to matters decided upon at the last meeting and attempt to re-open the question of the advisability of that decision.
(8) Be worried about the propriety of any decision — raise the question of whether such action as is contemplated lies within the jurisdiction of the group or whether it might conflict with the policy of some higher echelon."
A book about how to sabotage teh Germans as they invaded France.
It was interesting.
Don't go blowing up railroad tracks or you'll just get killed or caught....
leave that for the experts.
As a worker you can do things like not sharpen your tools.
As a manager of a factory you can require frequent pointless meetings and demand every single point be dealt with....
does that sounds fmailiar?
Sounds like the way the universities and beaurocracies do things!Even though this was not meant o be philosophical, it made me think about the way I do things.
Am I sabotaging the work that needs to be done?
Twenty-Nine Pages of WWII Insights This is an interesting example of the sort of document that the OSS prepared for internal use during WWII. There are no real secrets of sabotage here, in fact, the document focuses on convincing a citizen to perform sabotage. This is a good historic document, but deals with motivation, rather than action.
The CIA's wreck-it-yourself protips for Europeans under Nazi occupation. It's cute. Sort of like the Anarchist Cookbook, but without the rad '80s hacker screennames like AAc1dbuRNz and Tha-1nS0mN14c. Turns out, what I did in high school (shop class especially) qualifies as "CIA sabotage tactics". As did my behavior at almost every job I worked before college. Who knew?
OMG. Words cannot explain how great this was. The entire time I was reminded of Red Dawn meets Burn Notice. It was just a really great listen. It is what it is, a manual on how civilians can conduct simple sabotage in a hostile takeover- everything from ruining a rubber manufacture plant and burning down hotels, to releasing moths during an enemy propoganda movie showing.
Or a guide to passive aggressive resistance.Hilarious quick read on how to sabotage the enemy by such actions as choosing a lighter hammer to take longer to complete a job and making sure the food tastes bad. A simpler world and a simpler time.
Great readInteresting for several reasons :insight into practicalities of sabotage, exposure to military intelligence thinking concerning passive and active resistance to the Nazis, and also gives insight ok not the plight of people in occupied territories
World War Two guide toSabotage, destruction forOccupied peoples.
Things you know and things you never thought of.
