https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32075825-the-rise-and-fall-of-d-o-d-o
I refer you to this wonderful Wiki entry, if you can find the time.Rod Taylor in a nifty film version of HG’s classic tale - looks a bit like it was intended to traverse the evergladesOccasionally time jumps are used to illuminate political views about the chronological base point for those stories, what the future might look like if this or that keeps on.
Still with us?The first third of the book is pretty much pure delight, as we follow Melisande, Tristan, Oda, the now-transformed (hubba-hubba) witch and a few others as they figure out what needs figuring and begin to practice actual time travel.
But they’re thrown at us over and over again for hundreds and hundreds of pages like that one friend who sings the freakin’ Lamb Chop song because he knows it gets on your nerves so you roll your eyes and let him get it out of his system ha ha he’s such a dork but HE JUST GOES ON AND ON MY FRIENDS.
Within the middle, oh, 70% of the book there’s about one collective page in ten worth of relevant information.
There’s another one page in ten worth of humorous content.
4.75 StarsAbove and beyond anything else this book was a satire of bureaucracy and corporate structure.
You see something has happened to magic, it used to be a prevalent force in the world but is no longer.
There must be witches, time travel, alternate strands of reality and mind bending physics.I have read Mr. Stephenson's books before, my favorite being Snow Crash.
There is plenty "technobabble" about the inner workings of a time machine and how alternate realities are formed and how the consequences of time travel are handled.
But as with any Stephenson book I soaked in what I could and suspended disbelief and just rolled with it.
On the one hand, there are quite a few great ideas with the complications of surrounding witches with a humungous incompetent bureaucratic machine, especially when it turns out that they can do a lot of time travel.
I found myself treating the whole organization as the main character and in that regards, I had a great time.
Certain scenes were brilliant and laugh out loud funny.But I've read a lot of time-travel books.
I've even read a lot of time-travel-with-witches books.
Usually I love a big fat Stephenson novel for its tangents and offbeat nature, but I found myself tapping my toe with impatience a bit during this one.The second act of this book is mainly concerned with the ‘rise of D.O.D.O’ part of it, and it’s told in a series of emails and policy directives which gives us the picture of how a government agency dedicated to time travel would take shape.

not a perfect novel but closer to five stars than 4this story combined beautiful timey whammy stuff and is driven by  overall a beautiful book and with an open end so we may get more.😁please mr. stephenson and Ms. Galland may we have some more.
Neal Stephenson-Cyberpunk King writing about witches and magic.Neal Stephenson- Speculative Fiction King writing about time travel, witches and magic.Neal Stephenson-Historical Fiction King writing about turning the thought exercise Schrodinger's Cat into an actual experiment which leads to time travel, witches, magic, and the military.Can it get any better? Oh yeah, there is an epic 10th century Viking saga about Wal-Mart.
This is the most fun I've had reading a Neal Stephenson novel since SNOWCRASH. Co-author Nicole Galland brings a nice light touch to the proceedings so that it doesn't delve too much into technobabble. Witches, time-travel, and governmental bureaucracy all combine to deliver a thrilling read that I finished over a single weekend. GOOD STUFF!
One of the main p-o-v characters, Melisande, is flat, has little agency of her own that is not connected to her crush Tristan, she upends her life when he comes sashaying in with little to offer really than a potentially more interesting work and life than her current.
It is in such contrast of the earlier novels that I feel the need to evaluate my idea of his earlier novels, and wonder where this, maybe not misogynistic but certainly horribly dated way of writing female characters, comes from.Reader, I do not know what the hell what troubles this novel.
This was fun.
A real lark of a story.
Magic has disappeared from the world and D.O.D.O. want to bring it back.
Time travel and witches will solve that.
Right?
What can go wrong?
This is an elaborate use of the Schroedinger's Cat theory.
It works.
But what happens when motivations get muddy?
This story is funny, interesting, blends science with fantasy & history.
It's got a crazy mix happenings.
It's hilarious at times.
Told completely in an epistolary way through letters, diaries, memos, email, notes, etc.
A fun romp of a story.
I thoroughly enjoyed the craziness.
...also Vikings appear!
But she did have a nice line towards the end of the book about how modern men, because their masculinity was bred and trained out of them in most cases, have to attack / question the intelligence of very masculine types such as Magnus.Supporting this lovely cast is a group of Maxs, Vladimirs and Lukes (I'm not kidding, those are their designations/names) to emphasize the exchangeability of government employees.Oh, and an obnoxious general who gets killed by the witch but it's not a big deal because he was so rude he deserved it and the bosses of D.O.D.O. also don't have a problem with his death because they see now that time-travel has potential (the dead general is getting a star so it's all good).He's replaced by another general who is so professional that he lets himself be (verbally) put in his place by Erszebeth in under a minute.
I read an ARC of this with some bit of hope; Seveneves had fallen kind of flat for me, but I was hoping that a coauthor would help shore up some of Stephenson's weak points, and the idea of a time-travel story with witches was a good start.
This wasn't helped by the creepy sexualization of all the women in the story; from the description of (always female) witches as 'independent, therefore likely prostitutes or mistresses' (there is an actual conversation about this, including one of the witches who agrees that it's a reasonable expectation) to the recruitment of time-travel operatives as 'Lovers,' to persuade people by means of sex...
To view my full review for Fresh Fiction please click the following link:http://freshfiction.com/review.php?id...
Absolutely superb! I loved every one of its 742 pages. So sorry to finish it. Fabulous!
Moreover, because the story concerns time travel the plots and characters get jumbled up in all kinds of paradoxical ways, some of which are laugh-out-loud funny and others of which are like Rubics cubes that get resolved (or sometimes don't) before your eyes.
(It's kind of an inverse of the Harry Potter novels, where magic is just presented as is, and it's the interaction between the characters that keeps you flipping the pages.)Stephenson's books are rightly praised for sheer inventiveness.
She's all about character.The Rise and Fall of DODO feels to me like a book that's 2/3 Stephenson and 1/3 Galland.
The book was overly long for me and I felt got a bit bogged down in the middle but the tone was kept light and there was a lot of fun to be had with the characters involved: Melisande Stokes - a linguist, Tristan Lyons - from military intelligence, Dr Frank Odo - a physicist and brains behind the experiment, an ancient firm of bankers called the Fuggers, Erszebet - a grumpy witch from Budapest, and Grainne -a clever but sneaky Irish witch, who has plans of her own.
Light and meandering, anda surprisingly fast read. I have to admit I actually enjoyed reading how the DODO bureaucracy ballooned, hampering the ability of the core group to maintain control over the various DEDEs at DTAPs. (The number of abbreviations and acronyms in use reminded me of my time at a variety of corporations.) And watching the smarmy and condescending Blevins at work -- blechhhhhhh!I liked Melisande Stokes a lot and Erzabet frequently had me grinning.
Rounding up. What a shame! Why did Stephenson partner with another writer? Doesn't sound like his work at all. Too long and bloated-s story that could have been half the length and be much more interesting.
A specific event related to the perfection of photography finally put all witches out of business, and it is the job of DODO (you'll have to read the book to learn the acronyms) to bring them back.Stephenson and Galland develop a rather interesting theory of witchcraft, related to Schrodinger's Cat and Hugh Everett's many-worlds theory.
As a new battle emerges between those who would kill the scientific method to preserve witchcraft, and those who think that the death of magic was an acceptable bargain to gain 21st-century technology, Erszebet the Witch reminds us that nature does not care if the Enlightenment or the world of magic and fairy-tales wins in the end.
3.5*I usually enjoy Stephensons work and having read positive and negative reviews on this I was hesitant to start.
Quantum physics, time travel, history, witchcraft/magic, administration politics foundations just to name a few.
The novel was divided into 5 parts and I thoroughly enjoyed Part 1 introducing the 2 main protagonists.
It introduced the foundation for why magic was lost and what DODO briefly was.
From there it became alot of backlog and info dumps that really didnt have much ti add to the story.
The writing was great and witty at times, but it definitely felt like Stephensons lightest novel in terms of ideas.
Time travel is possible by witches performing magic, although Mmes. Who, Whatsit, and Which do not make an appearance. A shadowy defense agency of the US government wishes to control and use the magic and witches. This bureaucratic encumbrance is not to be confused with the Ministry of Magic, nor, any other magical governance. Although, the Viking hoards invasion of Wal-Mart reminded me a lot of Genghis Khan’s trip to the mall in Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure.
Close to 4.5 stars. Some of the plot is ludicrous, but it is so much fun!(view spoiler)[I'm really, really bummed that Blevins didn't get his comeuppance. The man was an idiotic offensive asshole and Stokes had to put up working with him for YEARS. I mean, she says at one point she had sexual harassment issues with him... and grrrr. This is open-ended for a sequel though, so who knows what may happen. (hide spoiler)]
3  starsTake time travel, witches, Schrodinger’s cat, dwindling magic, a shadowy government entity and naked Vikings and you have some idea of what to expect.Magic had disappeared from the world in 1851 because of the development of science and technology, particularly the photography of an eclipse. The story follows the exploits of a government agency that tries to restore magic by any means possible.The story idea was fantastic and fun but also frustrating at times. I think the time travel con
3 ½ starsTake time travel, witches, Schrodinger’s cat, dwindling magic, a shadowy government entity and naked Vikings and you have some idea of what to expect.Magic had disappeared from the world in 1851 because of the development of science and technology, particularly the photography of an eclipse.
The story follows the exploits of a government agency that tries to restore magic by any means possible.The story idea was fantastic and fun but also frustrating at times.
Told entirely in epistolary form, D.O.D.O. works, shall I say, uniquely - the reader becomes intimately acquainted with all the characters because he learns about said characters from the perspectives of all the other characters in the story.These are characters who remain memorable.
It in no way detracts from the fun the reader experiences - really, the focus is more on the human story behind the magic and time travel than on technical details of how said time travel would work.
Technically, I haven’t abandoned this yet.... but I’m about to.I’m listening to the book and I was following it just fine and was actually enjoying it, that is until the book turned into a bunch of email/messages being read. I’m trying to follow it, but I have found this so tedious and I don’t have any idea what’s happening at this point. I don’t have any desire to go back and re-listen to the parts that I hated.I’m on the last third of the book, so I did give it a serious try.But I can’t do this anymore.
This is the coolest book I have ever read. Stephenson and Galland have created this long, beautiful book that scratches any itch you have that might include; time travel, linguistics, witches, government organizations, Crusades, Elizabethan England, and Vikings. The pages shift from prose to government reports to diary entries, all distinct, wonderful, and creative. I will be pushing this one on everyone I know.
Recommended reading for the solar eclipse, seeing as how a solar eclipse in the mid-1800's features prominently(ish).I am quite pleased with how much I enjoyed this story!It's a fun science+magic tale involving a nerd, a military dude, more nerds, and witches.
Actually, I was impressed with how well-thought-out the logic behind science+magic and time travel was!
Typically, I roll my eyes a lot at this kind of thing, whining to myself about how that's just so unrealistic and couldn't ever happen for reasons but this time, I kept thinking, "Yes, that could work!
Judging by that ending, there's more story on its way.
With Nicole Galland as a co-author I figured the side trips might be reduced.
And for the most part they were, there are still a few spots that I felt weren't necessary to the overall story but nothing that took me completely out of the flow.Set in an alternate world where centuries ago magic and witches were known and accepted, the story starts in current times with an attempt to bring magic back in to the world.
(Seems there was an event in the past that eliminated magic from the world.)Quantum mechanics...Schrödinger's cat...1640 Cambridge, America...1560 Antwerp...1601 London...1203 Constantinople...1850 San Fransisco...1851 London...1045 Normandy...all mixed together for a interesting take on magic and time travel.7/10
If I'd reviewed this book before finishing it, I'd probably have given it higher marks. I dunno. Perhaps those "five years of sexual tension" were what other people wanted to see all wrapped up with a bow...
