https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124603.Culture_and_Value
Vermischte Bemerkungen = Culture and value: a selection from the posthumous remains, Ludwig Wittgenstein (1889 - 1951)تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و سوم ماه جولای سال 2014 میلادیعنوان: فرهنگ و ارزش؛ اثر: لودویگ ویتگنشتاین؛ گردآوری: جی. اچ. فن رایت؛ با همکاری: هایکی نیمان؛ مترجم: امید مهرگان؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، گام نو، 1381، در 188 ص، شابک: 9647387202؛ کتابنامه از صفحه 168 تا 173، موضوع: فلسفه، مسائل متفرقه - سده 20 ما. شربیانی
Vermischte Bemerkungen = Culture and value: a selection from the posthumous remains, ‎Ludwig‬ Wittgenstein (1889 - 1951)تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و سوم ماه جولای سال 2014 میلادیعنوان: فرهنگ و ارزش؛ اثر: لودویگ ویتگنشتاین؛ گردآوری: جی. اچ. فن رایت؛ با همکاری: هایکی نیمان؛ مترجم: امید مهرگان؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، گام نو، 1381، در 188 ص، شابک: 9647387202؛ کتابنامه از صفحه 168 تا 173، موضوع: فلسفه، مسائل متفرقه - سده 20 ما. شربیانی
Reading Wittgenstein a page at a time in the bathtub is very close to a perfect state of being for me.
At least the quotation part, and of course Godard takes things that are floating out there and puts it together in his own fashion - but Wittgenstein's speciality is to write about things that can't be easily said or stated.
There is a beauty in the way he writes about things, that are about language thinking about those things.
Right now, he's the one writer that really helps me with my own writing and thinking.
I need more Wittgenstein!
Wittgenstein was heavily influenced and inspired by Otto Weininger, possibly the greatest Jew (and most honest) to ever come out of Europe.
Wittgenstein, also a Jew, also attended the same elementary school as Adolf Hitler.
Hollywood has certainly made the average American look at the world in quite an arrogantly stupid(for lack of a better word) and escapist (unconsciously, of course) manner.
As Wittgenstein commended Spengler's remarks on Weininger's philosophies being outside and not part of Western philosophy, I can say the same about Wittgenstein.
That being said, I feel that Wittgenstein's honest "outsider" perspective of the Western tradition (on philosophy, among many other things) to be highly insightful.
I guess that is what makes him such a good philosopher: he can take the familiar and make it alien (in the best way possible).One of the themes that I found especially interesting in this book was that of religion and the religious life.
It suggests to me that true religion isn't a set of dogmas, doctrines, and propositions that are true (although that may be part of it), but rather, it is a way of living.
So that religion cannot simply be believed, it must be lived.Well, as Wittgenstein says, "thinking too has a time for ploughing[sic] and a time for gathering the harvest" (28e).
Short, lovely aphorisms.
Very interesting book which reveals a lot about the author himself, his views, opinions and interests. It complements greatly his other books and helps to understand the essence of his philosophy.
A philosophical draft of ideas!
Consider this remark from 1937:"The horrors of hell can be experienced within a single day; that's plenty of time."What are we to make of this sentence?
Is it biographical, perhaps a reference to a dark day in Wittgenstein's life?
The lack of context leaves an openness which invites the reader pick up the sentence, to feel its weight in hand, to examine it from all sides, and to build one's own thought with it.
A hugely enjoyable collection of philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein's comments about art, music, language, culture, Jewish life, religion in general, and a number of other topics.
I'll leave you with some of his insights: "Someone who knows too much finds it hard not to lie." "The problems of life are insoluble on the surface and can only be solved in depth.
They are insoluble in surface dimensions." "Genius is what makes us forget the master's talent." "Genius is what makes us forget skill." "Language sets everyone the same traps; it is an immense network of easily accessible wrong turnings.
"I can rely on him" spits out the word "rely" as something redoubtably foreign as opposed to "I can"'s and "him"'s natural bases in verifiable experience.If I were Wittgenstein, I would have zombied up out of the ground in 1977, when G.H. von Wright was about to publish Vermischte Bemerkungen, and snatched the manuscript right out of his hands, croaking (can zombies croak?) "Miscellany is meant to stay miscellaneous!", and scattering all the pages everywhere.(But this would be terribly avoidable, seeing as a virus of sufficient strength to awaken the corpse didn't exist in that year exactly.)But I'm not Wittgenstein, seeing as I speak barely more than a basic snatch of German, and am not a great philosopher, though I should certainly have a "sense of purpose" to be him.
Zombies might smell very unpleasant, and be rudely snatching and scattering pages always.One of Mendelssohn's 1837 piano concertos (2 in d Op. 40) has always struck me as one of his finest.
Reading about Wittgenstein's philosophy (earlier and later) is a struggle.
It seems so dry and sterile.
In "Culture and Value" Wittgenstein comes alive.
This is a collection of his miscellaneous thoughts through the years about music, Shakespeare, philosophy and, especially, thoughts about his own thinking and writing.
has a texture that, off hand, makes him more interesting as a man than as a philosopher.
"'Fare well!,'" he simply comments, and then he adds: "'A whole world of pain is included in these words.' How can it be contained in them?
The words are like an acorn from which an oak tree can grow."
Ever wanted to read one of the greatest philosophers of all time in five minute increments?
Ever wish that the great thinkers would stop being so obscurantist and speak about stuff that's not quite so abstract?
These are the little bits culled from notebooks and margins that don't fit into "philosophical works," scattered lines about whatever he may have been thinking about at the time.
Wittgenstein's opinions on everything from music and architecture to why he was a philosopher to the war to the resurrection of Jesus are represented here, and they're just as interesting as one would expect from such a genius!
Like always, deceivingly simple and self-evident and yet unintelligible for pages till you resurface at that a-ha moment of blinding and blazing light and understanding. I never know where he is leading to with his open-ended inquiries but I hold-fast coz I always get the feeling that is is onto something. Always rewarding.
This collection of ruminations offers readers a 'softer' take on Wittgenstein and his very difficult philosophical concepts. I would suggest this 'gateway' book if you want to get deeper into this very unique philosopher.
"Architecture exists to ennoble something. Consequently, when there is nothing to ennoble, there can be no architecture." --WittgensteinNow, take a look at this:http://www.kunstler.com/eyesore.html
Proto-Tumblr.
Excellent and superb and above average!
I really connect with Wittgenstein as he portrays himself here. He and I strike me as kindred spirits.
love me some good aphorisms
everyone should get their aphorism on, on the bus.
1) Why double the length of the book by keeping the original German on odd pages?2) Ton of great Wittgenstein thought - and his hatred for his contemporary composers.3) Having an educated opinion before a subsection of comments would have added a great deal of needed framework for this book. Instead, it's just chronological by year... Yes Wittgenstein developed his thoughts considerably over time which gives a continuum of thought based on which year the statement was made, but still lacks considerably without the reader already possessing both early (Tractacus) and late (Investigations) Wittgenstein knowledge.
This book could also be titled "Wittgenstein's thoughts about stuff".
Wittgenstein wrote one book (Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus) during his life, and left behind a lot of unpublished writing, some of it following a few discrete lines of thought, much of which has now been published under a variety of titles.
This little volume is a collection of remarks, over the course of about 20 years or so, that didn't really fit anywhere else.
Some of it wouldn't really make a lot of sense unless you knew where it fit in the course of Wittgenstein's thought.
Uma filosofia bastante trivial sobre cultura e valores. Ludwig W. apresenta-nos sentenças bastante práticas quase como um manual de fuga ao quotidiano.Um apelo à filosofia de valores.“Put a man in the wrong atmosphere and nothing will function as it should. He will seem unhealthy in every part. Put him back into his proper element and everything will blossom and look healthy. But if he is not in his right element, what then? Well, then he just has to make the best of appearing before the world as a cripple.”
This book of aphorisms comment upon religion (specifically Christianity), honesty, mathematics, music, Shakespeare--and more, but these are reoccurring topics.In one of my favorites Wittgenstein speculates upon why he lies to himself when the the difference between being truthful and of lying is equivalent to that of the difference between drinking bitter or sweet coffee. Yet, he lies to himself."Culture and Value" is a good place to get a taste of a great mind of the 20th Century.
Ludwig Wittgenstein's CULTURE AND VALUE is a wonderful collection of aphoristic remarks on music, religion, philosophy, genius, writing, language, being Jewish, being human, etc., which is selected from the author's notebooks between 1914 and 1951. Of course, such reading makes one pause and think, but at the same time one is deeply moved by Wittgenstein's language. His words are just very potent. I highly recommend this book.
Just purchased (12-28-2010). A collection of "miscellaneous remarks" from Wittgenstein's manuscripts - unpublished in other works. Aphorisms and short remarks in the original German and in English translation. I'm reading the German slowly, trying to absorb and comprehend, then seeing how the English translator renders these Von Wright selections. Something I can pick up and put down, pick up again...
قطعات و تأمّلاتِ لودویگ ویتگنشتاین دربارهی فلسفه، دین، موسیقی و انسانْ «هولناک»اند. نه این که راویِ چیزهای ترسناکی باشند -که گاهی هم هستند- بلکه بیشتر به سبب اینکه خواننده را متحیّرانه به زانو درمیآورند؛ چهقدر یک انسان میتواند «فیلسوف» باشد و این لفظ را احیا کند؟ چهقدر یک فیلسوف میتواند «پیامبری» کند و از ضمیرِ انسانیْ چنین استوار و دهشتانگیز سخن بگوید؟
قطعات و تأمّلاتِ لودویگ ویتگنشتاین درباره‌ی فلسفه، دین، موسیقی و انسانْ «هول‌ناک»اند. نه این که راویِ چیزهای ترسناکی باشند -که گاهی هم هستند- بل‌که بیش‌تر به سبب این‌که خواننده را متحیّرانه به زانو درمی‌آورند؛ چه‌قدر یک انسان می‌تواند «فیلسوف» باشد و این لفظ را احیا کند؟ چه‌قدر یک فیلسوف می‌تواند «پیامبری» کند و از ضمیرِ انسانیْ چنین استوار و دهشت‌انگیز سخن بگوید؟
Fist book by him I encountered, back in high school. Probably my first exposure to aphorisms, and this knocked me out (tho I've never fully understood or even attempted to deduct his larger philosophical glance). I find him humorous in the way that I find someone like Godard to be funny.
First thought: Wittgenstein is a great writer. Second thought: dude makes a joke about balls and pockets. Third thought: the effortless banality of "Brahms's overwhelming ability." Fourth thought: why aren't you reading this wonder of fragments and aphorisms yet?
Though Philosophical Investigations is Wittgenstein's most important work, this one is more interesting and personally meaningful.
