https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19593.Floating_Dragon
Like other reviewers, I would have to agree that this is quite a bit like It, in terms of the general feel and presentation of the story, although Dragon was published before King’s novel.Floating Dragon is better paced than the other Straub novels I’ve read.
It is often up to the reader to decide “what the heck just happened?”It’s as complete a horror novel as you’re likely to lay your hands on, and quite clever, really.
If you only ever read one Straub novel it should probably be Ghost Story, but if you read another, perhaps it should be this one.
Already from the start I wondered about Straub's writing process for this book - did he himself have a clear understanding of where the story was going, a beginning, middle and end?
And what happens when you don't feel anything for the characters, not even that they could be real, you really don't care that much what happens to them or, it directly follows, how the story with them in it really ends.Parts one and two were good (at about 160-170 pages each), probably due to my full attention (and the fact that my alternate reading material was the tax free catalogue) and somewhat moving story.
This paragraph perfectly illustrated what Floating Dragon is all about."Undead things in bandages, ancient curses, paranormal powers, the inanimate alarmingly animated, spontaneous combustion, visionary apprehensions, human beings uniting into ad hoc families to combat hideous literal evils, ghosts, ravening beasts, beckoning mirrors, vampiric entities, external horrors, that whole gaudy blaring blinding circus of metaphor made real – at a level just below consciousness, I had decided to take my leave of all this dear, goofy imagery by wrapping it all together in one gigantic package and then… blowing it up!"And as the man said, he did.
The fictional small town of Hampstead becomes real: populated with all sorts of people with all sorts of backgrounds, who do all sorts of things.The title, Floating Dragon is a gem in itself.
FLOATING DRAGON is a sweeping supernatural horror novel inspired by the military paranoia of the 1980s.
The monsters are never like, werewolves, ghosts or vampires.
The monsters are always man-made and everyone is always responsible for creating them.Of course, like in other Peter Straub novels, there are way too many characters and point of views that keep crisscrossing, so it gets really confusing at time but it's forgiveable for FLOATING DRAGON because there's an anchor point to all of the crazy stuff happening.
In many ways it's a very conventional Peter Straub novel, but it's his most accomplished I've read so far.
As a pretty regular reader of the horror genre, Floating Dragon was one of the most original takes on the "haunted town" story I've ever read, and I'm somewhat surprised by the mixed reviews here.
There's not much that's totally new here (as far as 1980's horror), but Straub puts a fresh spin on some of the genre's most cliched tropes: ghosts, zombies, ancient curses, chemical outbreaks, psychos, psychics, etc.
I warn you, there are literally dozens of main characters to keep track of, with stories somewhat independent of each other.
Peter Straub's take on the horror genre is always extremely imaginative, and Floating Dragon is no exception. The story of a small town gripped by a mysterious, subtle evil, this book is definitely a great one.
DNF. Will return to eventually.
So infatuated with its own crackling prose and sense of narrative flair (the former more akin to the mannerisms of John Updike, the latter the self-referential glee of Martin Amis) the novel takes over 200 pages for its central storyline to emerge from a deluge of hallucinogenic, but deadly, hauntings, only for the plot to mostly be swept under again by even more tidal waves of blood.
Readers unprepared for such an experience will recoil at the insistent brio and abandon, but those who are hungering for an experience similar to slowly swallowing a thrashing roller coaster will inch happily through this novel's beefy spine.
Too much backstory and exposition but not enough actual suspense and action to keep me reading past the half way point. I tried...
This book feels like a scratchpad for a more developed book.
None of it makes sense, none of it hangs together, it feels like a desperate not-knowing of what one is writing about.
It is, in many places, something I wanted to toss across the room, it feels so clueless.And then I finished it.
The ending makes no logical sense but is one of the more moving things I've read lately.
So in the end I felt the book was a brave renunciation of that which was no longer wanted or needed, a portal into the real mysteries.
Muy parecido a IT. En un pueblo no paran de suceder durante años extrañas muertes y sucesos. Un trío tendrá que resolver que es, y para ello pasaran mucho miedo, con distintas situaciones de terror. Vamos que el que se quede con mono de leer IT lo más seguro que esto sea lo más parecido que encuentre. Y que se sepa que que está escrito en el 83.
But rereading Ghost Story last year got me thinking about investigating more of Straub's work and the 30th Anniversry edition of FD seemed like a good place to start.
It begins with a pretty good setup of a DOD experimental project getting released into the atmosphere and then becomes the tale of a curse over Hampstead that recurs every 30 years or so.
In the epilogue to the story he talks about the narrator finally publishing "the excellent book Floating Dragon"--that actually made me laugh.
If you are a newcomer to Straub, start with another title--I recommend Ghost Story; if you're already a fan, you'll probably like it.
The beginning reminded me of Straub’s The Hellfire Club (which, by the way, did knock my socks off), with its huge cast of characters, its Gothic feel, invented history, and invented pop culture legacy referenced throughout the story (the show Daddy’s Here in Floating Dragon, the novel Night Journey in Hellfire Club).
The novel starts like a crime story: a woman named Stony Friedgood is found brutally murdered in the idyllic, middle-class town of Hampstead.
But then the story gets a hint of scientific disaster: an experimental chemical called DRG is released accidentally into the air, and settles on the town.
I don't quite understand the comparison between Straub and King: sure, they both write horror, but I think they have very different writing styles that I find it hard to explain.
In a brief summary, this book is about a group of four people who must come together to fight an evil that has lived in their town for centuries.
The evil hides under very guises, in this latest one in the form of a chemical cloud that is released from a top secret facility.
All to mask the real evil that lives on.
It was a really good potboiler.
I don't think Straub really knows what caused this horror and his caricature of military and police types clashing has a real satric thrill that should have been developed.
But it was still a good read.
I read reviews here comparing it to Stephen King's It (which is probably the other way around considering It was written later) and The Tailsiman.
I think Straub is in another category than King.
His books don't blow the endings the way King's do.
Further, his stories don't feel second hand.
This belongs on the shelf with his masterpiece Ghost Story.
What would happen if a mysterious toxic gas leaked out of a research facility and drove almost everyone who came in contact with it completely and murderously insane? This book gives one possible answer to that question through excellent character development, pacing, and high-intensity suspense.
Of all the Peter Straub novels, I think I was most looking forward to reading his 1983 novel FLOATING DRAGON, but mostly just because it was referenced in Stephen King’s THE TOMMYKNOCKERS.
It’s not enough his prose is simply perfect, but the plot he’s created, the characters and the town inside FLOATING DRAGON were nothing short of the work of a master.
I have never found myself mentally editing a Peter Straub novel as I read it, nor have I ever found myself stuck in the mire of some scene that seemed like it would never end and the characters hadn’t done anything in 40 pages.
The strengths are that the many manifestations of evil are pretty disquieting, if not frightening; however, the evil event is described as something that is occurring everywhere, in many different ways, all at the same time, to many people (the whole town, in fact).
This is where the problem lies: there was just too much going on in the narrative, to too many people, for me to really get in and become engrossed in  Floating Dragon .
I definitely would have to re-read  Floating Dragon to get a sense, perhaps even an appreciation, of all the intricacies that Straub has woven into the text.
As I type this, there is blood and fire pouring out of my ears, my skin is falling off the bone, soon I will have to bandage myself back together, Then I will be known as just another Leaker :(  I have just knocked down 30 mailboxes on my home from work.
This book was terribly gripping, TERRIFYING, raw to the bone, shocking, intricately layered, intriguing original plot, loveable characters.
When you read this book, come back and find me!
SAVE ME, Ill be here waiting....Forever, or at least until the trains stop coming, then I will have to walk into the ocean.
As people melt, go crazy, or simply drop dead from fear, the threat becomes stronger, invading the minds of the survivors, seeming to ooze from the very land of the town.
and perhaps can gather those who can stop it.This was a fantastic tale, written by a master in the heyday of horror fiction.
It is reminiscent of ‘Salem’s Lot, which had been out for a few years and foreshadowed IT, which I am certain this novel influenced.As for Peter Straub, this tale is told like most of his other works, with an emphasis on storytelling.
I enjoyed this book for the most part and if forced to compare it to another in the general, I would say it's a bit like a cross between King's IT and Straub's own novel, Ghost Story.
However both of the aforementioned novels are far superior to this one.
I feel like this one was a bit too ambitious and while not being an extremely long read, it dragged on for far too long in my opinion.
The characters are not poorly written by any means but they are unimpressive and ordinary.
Ordinary in the sense that they are completely forgettable.
Floating Dragon is no exception, though its similarities to the author's previous novel Ghost Story as well as Stephen King novels such as IT and 'Salem's Lot make it, perhaps, a little more accessible and warm in comparison to something like Shadowland, a book I will readily admit went totally over my head at times.Floating Dragon is an in-depth look at a small town in Connecticut, Hampstead, which is an upscale place only a short drive from New York City.
If you've never read Peter Straub, starting here would not be a bad place though I always recommend Ghost Story to newcomers.
AMAZING! What Peter Straub did for a a well-to-do Connecticut town, the imagery, the imagination, the horror, the sheer playfulness--this will go down as a classic of our age. A truly modern gothic classic, if such could be said. Worthy of N. Hawthorne, the best of S.King..these were about the only two I could compare this to...On my best favorite horror story list. I also highly recommend A Ghost Story.
Straub's Lovecraft-infused tale of a Connecticut town beset by the twin evils of chemical pollution and demonic possession is a master-class in the horror writer's art. Pin sharp plotting and characterisation combine to produce one of the most compelling books I can recall reading. Unputdownable is an oft overused description these days but in this case is completely justified.
Peter Straub constructs a scary tale of chemistry gone mad and a returning evil, combining together to make the perfect (storm) cloud.I original read this book over 2 decades ago, and on the back of that thought that this was a 3 star read.
Since re-reading this book I have re-evaluated this and given it a 4 star rating.
It just stopped flowing right for me and felt like Straub had run out of steam.This was still an enjoyable read, but oh if that final third had followed in the same vein as what had come before it, what a masterpiece this would have been.
ძალიან კარგი წიგნია. სტრაუბის სტილში უხეშად, მაგრამ ძალიან მსუყედ და მრავალფეროვნად დაწერილი, მაგრამ არის ერთი "ნო".დრაკონი გამოიცა, 82-ში, ის - 86-ში.ჯერ თვითონ Floating ხომ მთელ იმ კლოუნიადაას პარალელურად მიჰყვებამერე - პატარა ქალაქი, ყოველ თაობაში (მკაცრად განსაზღვრული პერიოდულობით) დაბრუნებული ბოროტება მრავალი სახით, მრავალი სახელით, მაგრამ ნუ, საბოლოოდ ერთი შინაარსით. და კიდევ ბევრი საერთო მომენტი რა...მოკლედ, არ ვიცი ვინ ვის რა მოპარა, მაგრამ სასწრაფოდ სიმონსი ღამის ზაფხულია წასაკითხი (კინგს რომ დაემუქრა, ბავშვების თავს გადამხდარ ტრაგედიაზე ეგრე არ უნდა წერაო. ნუ, ყოველ შემთხვევაში ბაკურიძემ ეგრე მომიყვა :D)still, nothing's better than IT
Nothing with Peter Straub is straight forward, nothing is neat. And that's why I read him. He takes you on a journey with the end result being that you care deeply for the characters at stake. He is a virtuoso writer, juggling concepts and plots while continuously pulling the rug out from under you. Floating Dragon was no different. It had scenes that scared and delighted me, scenes that will stick with me for some time. This is a book I will read again. And hopefully you'll also want to take up the journey.
I was very excited to read my first novel by Peter Straub. I must say that I am a huge fan now. The closest to his works that I have been in the past prior to reading this was the movie Ghost Story. I am sure the novel is much better than the movie. I was very entertained by the eeriness, madness, fear and gore in the book. The characters were very likeable too under the circumstances. Looking forward to diving into his other works now. More, more, more, please!!!
At some level it's hard to give this book one star, since by using a plot line that's almost a mirror of King's It, and by mixing it with the premise below, Straub was able to milk almost seven hundred pages out of this.But wait! The premise: Small, wealthy east coast town saved by battered woman and man with glowing phallic symbol before it's destroyed by evil-cloud-controled-reptilian-gynocologist.Ok, maybe it's not so hard to give this one star.
I was not prepared for this!! There is something exceptionally terrifying about an event where sanity goes completely out the window. When the humdrum of everyday life speeds up and you start to hear the gears over heating and cracking. This is what happened here. A small everyday is town is caught in the jaws of a dragon. Whose only purpose it seems is to incite chaos and disorder. At the beginning you will feel the paranoia, and by the end you will be part of the madness.
