https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233649.The_Great_Hunt
I say this all of the time, but reading old school fantasy books is like reading with a friend. And they remind me of when I was young. I don't know why. Maybe because I'm old school. Happy Reading! Mel ❤️
There is really interesting world-building here, as we get to know a lot more places, including The White Tower.
Even though Perrin and Matt seem like they have important roles, we don’t really get to know them much better in book 2.
Matt was ok in both books, but not much more than that.New Aes Sedai are being introduced – Elayne and Min, who join Nynaeve and Egwene at The White Tower, The Amyrlin herself , Verin, and Liandrin from the Red Aja.I don’t want to reveal much, so I refrained from telling anything in regard to the plot.
2/1/16: Day 1 of WoT #2 buddy (re)read in  BB&B ! We're only reading one book per month, so if you want to jump in, you've got plenty of time to squeeze in The Eye of the World and still participate. Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsNOTICE: this reread is in preparation for finally biting the bullet and reading book 14. That means I HAVE NOT read book 14 yet. Please be mindful of this in the comments, both for me and for others who may or may not have progressed past this point in the series. Thank y
Does not care that the Dragon Reborn is a completely different, maybe twenty-years-old model, when she herself probably had a couple of centuries under her belt before she was sealed inside the Dark One's prison for several thousand years.If that wasn't obnoxious enough--and trust me, it is--she still hasn't figured out that it was her obsession with power and acquiring ALL OF IT that drove Lews Therin away the first time.
The Dragon Reborn (Wheel of Time, #3) by Robert Jordan
“She really is very pretty, even if Mat does not see it.” 	“Does that mean you don’t want to go with us after all?” 	Loial gave a start.
It's hard to know who to trust and there are definitely lots of side plots and foreshadowing going on that I think will make more sense on a reread (and I can pretty much guarantee I'll be rereading this series again in the future to test that theory!).
Once again I was pulled straight into this story, it starts a little slower but the pace really ramps up in the second half and I'm so invested in the characters that even when there's not a great deal happening I'm just so happy to be spending time with them all.
Rand began to annoy me so much at the start of this because by the end of the last novel, I felt that he had found his courage, and he’d overcome his reluctant nature; it was like his character development had gone backwards and taken him to an early state of the previous novel.
But, I felt like he had already gained it, and that this novel was padded out with development that had already been achieved.I wanted this from the start: Rand’s full potential is obviously something he's not fully aware of, although it's clear to the reader, and every other character he may encounter, of what he will one day be able to do.
While reading Eye of the World, I kept seeing it’s similarities with LoTR but this book simply outshine its predecessor in every way.
So Rand, who is too eager to leave Aes Sedai behind, along with Matt and Perrin went on to get back the Horn but it’s not so easy as they’re not the only one looking for the legendary Horn.This is a long book and had tons of characters where everyone pop up out of nowhere as the need arise.
What made this book a real pain was the secrets that Rand, Mat, and Perrin kept from each other.
“And it shall come to pass that what man made shall be shattered, and the Shadow shall lie across the Pattern of Age, and the Dark One shall once more lay his hand upon the world of man.
Like the unfettered dawn shall he blind us, and burns us, yet shall the Dragon Reborn confront the Shadow at the Last battle, and his blood shall give us the Light.
Weep for your salvation."The Great Hunt begins right where The Eye of the World left off, with our heroes still sheltering within the walls of Fal Dara.
Loved this one even more than the first book in the series! The world-building is so rich and vast, and the characters are very compelling. This book was so good, I was almost grateful for my hospital time, since it gave me more time to read! (See, there's always a silver lining!)Also, as of this book, Nynaeve has officially surpassed Moiraine as my favorite Wheel of Time character!FULL REVIEW TO COME
They distinctively have different voices to be sure but one of the reasons I’m enjoying The Wheel of Time series is because of the intricate world building that is going on and the layers that are being set up.This book is over twenty years old but you can’t really tell and that is one of the coolest things about fantasy is they can stand up to the test of time since there is an entire new world in every single one and so it never really feels dated.The Eye of the World reminded me of The Lord of the Rings in quite a few ways and while for the most part The Great Hunt is moving away from that feeling there is still one part that very much reminded me of Tolkien.
"Yet one shall be born to face the Shadow, born once more as he was born before and shall be born again, time without end. The Dragon shall be Reborn"   A Full Five Stars: ✰✰✰✰✰.  This book really did it for me. In The Eye of the World, Jordan spends a lot of time laying foundations for the characters, and for the plot as a whole, which made for a very slow experience that required a lot of patience. The worldbuilding and character development, while still very good, was done at an extremely g
In The Eye of the World, Jordan spends a lot of time laying foundations for the characters, and for the plot as a whole, which made for a very slow experience that required a lot of patience.
The worldbuilding and character development, while still very good, was done at an extremely gradual pace that left me wondering if it was ever actually going to take off.
This book finally gives us some more adequate explanations regarding the magic system as well, which was much needed, and it is actually extremely interesting and even more creative than I remember (I read this book a LONG time ago).
The Darkfriends are everywhere, from nobles of many different nations to Children of the Light and even the Aes Sedai!Aielmen finally make an appearance!We get to learn more about the Ogier race, their steddings and their traditions.Daes dae'mar, the Great Game, played by the noble houses of Cairhien is introduced.And much more!This is one amazing Epic fantasy.
A journey into a well-thought universe with a very complex and intriguing magic system and compelling characters that come from many different nations and races.
A must-read for fantasy fans!
This picked up right after the end happenings of The Eye of the World.
Rand, Mat, and Perrin were on the quest for the Horn and I thought their journey was an interesting one.
Jordan's world building continues to be excellent and it was good to see and learn more of the kingdoms.
The end happenings were quite dramatic so I'm looking forward to see where the story goes in the third instalment.Rating: 4 stars.Audio Note: Kate Reading and Michael Kramer do as good a job with this one as they did with the first book in the series.
This is such a step up from the first. I feel like quite a lot of plot lines started moving in this, and I’m pumped to see where things start going. This seemed a bit like a filler where we learn a lot more about the world, but not a huge amount happens for the length of the novel. Regardless, I was engaged throughout it and am excited to continue now.
The second book in the series, some people complain there are some influences of J.R.R. Tolkien in the first book; this book is where Robert Jordan found his own voice.
She was the most annoying character during my first read, but now I know how she will develop.
This is the last book where Elayne and Gawin behave like normal human beings, and not people with some (sometimes severe) mental deficiency.
The first 5 or 6 books are a must read for any fantasy fans; even if you do not like it you have to see what all the fuss about the series is about.
And the rampant use of this trope: "Rand blushed and wished Perrin was there; he always knew how to deal with women, way more than Rand ever would." followed, sometimes only a couple pages later, by "Perrin wished Rand was there.
He knew how to deal with girls." I mean, is he serious?
This same gag is used at least seven (7) times in the first two books of this series.
It should also be pointed out that these "characters" are 17 years old.So anyway, I'm done with these.
I almost made it to page 300 before I realized I wasn't enjoying myself, and that the book as a whole was making me angrier and angrier the farther into it I got.
I'd started skimming a 10-page chapter and said to myself, Why the fuck are you still reading this?
Before I invest another minute into this rambling-ass of a novel, I'm tapping out.
In summation: I don't care about anyone in this book.
I gives not a fuck for the story.
12 more books?
You can just go right ahead and eat the entirety of my ass.
As informações passadas ao leitor são intrigantes, cheias de duplo sentido e que me fizeram querer saber sempre mais, ao mesmo tempo que a leitura não se tornava enfadonha e chata em momento algum.Ainda mais com o prólogo se passando em uma reunião do Tenebroso com dezenas de Amigos das Trevas, onde todos parecem estar prontos para colocar em prática um plano que pode atrapalhar e muito a vida dos nossos conhecidos heróis Rand, Mat, Perrin, Egwene, Nynaeve e cia.— “O túmulo não é limite para o meu chamado” — traduziu, em uma voz tão baixa que parecia estar falando sozinha.
*** 5 *** This book and this series never Ever disappoints!
Yep, this is the reason I can not write a review on any of the books in this series.
It is not that I think the book is perfect (ooo, that was very difficult to type!).
It is all that, done in the most engaging way possible, plus everything else a good Fantasy book can deliver.
Thus, the only thing left for all of you out there who have not as of yet read this series is obvious - get it and read it!
All the while he’s resisting the urge to channel the one power, which will eventually make him go mad, he’s all But I’m just a shepherd!While he’s fighting this internal battle with himself, his outward life has changed beyond all recognition, and Moiraine, the Aes Sedai that brought him and his friends out of their home town and saved their lives last book, is determined to see him on his proper path, whether he likes it or not, going so far as to have all his peasant clothes burned, and supplying him with new ones fit for a lord.
I mean, I wanted to bash heads together with Rand being all stubborn and Mat not helping himself a bit and Perrin not accepting who he has become!
Plus, Nyaneve irritated me every bit as much as I appreciated her.
And there was a reference to a sword in a stone that only the Dragon Reborn could use.
There are obviously many unanswered questions and I shall look forward to reading The Dragon Reborn as soon as possible.
(One of the advantages of getting a late start on this series is that they are all available now.)Book 270 of my Science Fiction and Fantasy reading project.
3.5 stars
"The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend. Legend fades to myth and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth returns again.What was, what will be, and what is, may yet fall under the Shadow."I feel great to come back reading 'The Wheel of Time'. I love this book so much Alhamdulillah!I am hooking in 'The Wheel of Time'. I think it might will take me a long time to complete this series.
This was a wonderful installment in what I can already see is going to become one of my favourite series of all time.
No spoilers – because I know a bunch of you are yet to experience the wonder of this and I don’t want to ruin anything for you.Character run down:Rand – Is such a ladies man.
The ensemble cast had some wonderful new additions this time around and I can’t wait to dive into the next book as I continue on my quest to demolish this series by the end of next year.
It goes from following a few country bumpkins on their first wide-eyed adventure into the world, to what we know and love the Wheel of Time for - a sprawling epic covering an entire continent.
"The Swallow Takes Flight!" I'm amazed at the wide variety Jordan came up with; I don't know if one is ever repeated.
The Great Hunt is really just a warm up for the pure awesomeness that is books 3-6, but if you're uninterested in keeping the stories and vast cast of characters straight (and I don't blame you), this is where I suggest stopping.
1% And it shall come to pass that what men made shall be shattered, and the Shadow shall lie across the Pattern of the Age, and the Dark One shall once more lay his hand upon the world of man.
The two must be used in unison to handle enough of the One Power to Break the World--that was the way in the Age of Legends; a man and a woman working together were always ten times as strong as they were apart--and what Aes Sedai today would aid a man in channeling?...I can think of few women strong enough to survive the flow...The Amyrlin, of course, Moiraine, and Elaida...Perhaps one or two others.
Kidding, for sure it’s the good books.The story begins right where the first book finished.Rand accompanies his two friend along with a Shienarian army to retrieve the horn from dark friends.
I’ll wait to see what’s happening in next books, it’s just the beginning I guess.My most favorite character of book two is Nynaeve, doing everything she can to help her friends from two river.
She is the voice of wisdom so many times when Egwene is all energy, excitement and worry about Rand.Soon I’ll start the third book and I’m sure will be more confused by many new characters.
When it comes to actually swinging a sword, Jordan allows our imagination to fill in the blanks.How?Jordan must have devoted a week to writing natural metaphors for thousands of sword strokes.
There are some memorable moments in The Great Hunt, including the scenes where Lan is teaching Rand the sword and when Rand rushes a Seanchan blademaster.In the most fantastic tradition, swordplay is an important part of "The Wheel of Time" because Jordan uses Rand's training to reveal how he matures and faces leadership, not to mention the burden of being a cursed savior figure.Sadly, both duels and a trust for the reader's imagination are largely absent in the later novels.
I read the Wheel of Time series by Robert Jordan because both my husband and best friend had read them.
The best friend highly encouraged me to read the books - my husband warned me off.The warning is not because the books are bad.
Great character development, interesting universe for those who love fantasy novels.The warning is because these books never, ever, ever are going to end.
I think the last six books have taken place over the book plot timeline of about a month.
No lie.The books start off with just 4-5 main characters...but over time I think there become closer to 20.
Another brilliant monstrosity is done!I can't fathom how Jordan created the world.
It's so complex with all those nations, tribes and their own world.
It's spectacular when he wrote it that early.
I am feeling bad that I didn't pick this series earlier.
If you look at the series with 14 books, each a monstrosity on their own.
I feared I couldn't read it.
But now, I am enjoying it so much.The characters have developed so nicely.
I loveeee Rand al'Thor.
It suits his character pretty much.
I am so enjoying this series.
I can see that many people hate the series for running on too much and yes I respect that but personally (I guess since I jumped on the wagon headed for The Last Battle a little later than most fans) I've loved reading such a long series.
Personally book three is the most important one so I suggest that you read up to book three before deciding whether to drop the series or continue onwards.Anyway I have little more to say as much of what I can say about this series is subjective or backed up by other fans.
