https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61539.The_Structure_of_Scientific_Revolutions
The fact that you've surmounted the problem gives you more faith in the relationship.If research were romance, Thomas Kuhn might have gone on to say that sometimes you get another feeling.
You will not really be able to remember what it was like.If research were romance, Thomas Kuhn might have said that some people believe that they have a true soulmate out there, and it's just a question of finding that special person they are fated to be with.
*عن سلوك الأفراد الذين يقومون بمسح المنشورات القديمة لهم على الفيسبوك لأنها أصبحت ساذجة جداً بالنسبة لهم***"إن العلم الذي يتردد في مسألة نسيان مؤسسيه خاسر"وايتهيد "أخشى أنه لديك تغيير في البراديجم"يعالج الكاتب أحد المشكلات التي يراها في تأريخ العلم, وهي الإدّعاء بأن العلم تراكمي "إن الظاهرة المميزة لكتب تدريس العلم هي أنها تحتوي على قدر قليل من التاريخ يوجد في فصل تمهيدي, أو غالبا ما يوجد في إشارات مبعثرة إلى الأبطال العظام لعصر سابق.
ولمبررات واضحة ووظيفية, لا تشير كتب تدريس العلوم إلا إلى ذلك الجزء من عمل العلماء القدامى الذي يمكن النظر إليه على أنه إسهامات في نص وحل مشكلات براديغم هذه الكتب.
But, it is crucially important to keep in mind our biases, like the one that I have laid out for myself, while analyzing Kuhn’s ideas.Setting aside any implications about the theist, atheist debacle (which is unfortunately unavoidable while discussing anything about science and scientific discoveries), I will try to give an account of Kuhn’s ideas, as I understand them to be.The traditional view of science—see Karl Popper’s writings on the scientific method—is that scientists gather individual pieces of data from the natural world and when there is a sufficient amount of pieces of data, we can draw inferences about the relation between individual pieces of data.
Despite the fantastic universe of 3-dimensional rotation and neato equations to find volume, geometry is rendered lifeless on the chalkboard by these relentless proofs.This, then, is the tone of The Structure of Scientific Revolutions--from beginning to end--by Thomas Kuhn.
This is great material, just like geometry, but the narrative is like reading a proof that takes up 3 pages in your spiral notebook or Trapper Keeper.
Like a geometry proof, and so characteristic of a mathematician, Kuhn belabors his points with structured, routinized precision that keeps the subject firmly grounded, and, as a result, narratively flat.There’s great, thoughtful, and comprehensive support for his thesis, but like a proof, he is so exact that each subsequent sentence restates about half of the previous sentence, and each subsequent paragraph reconsiders half the previous paragraph.
Observation and experience can and must drastically restrict the range of admissible scientific belief, else there would be no science. But they cannot alone determine a particular body of such belief. An apparently arbitrary element, compounded of personal and historical accident, is always a formative ingredient of the beliefs espoused by a given scientific community at a given time. This is one of those wonderfully rich classics, touching on many disparate fields and putting forward ideas th
At this point a new paradigm may arise and replace the old one, such as the switch from Newton’s to Einstein’s system.Though Kuhn is often spoken of as responding to Popper, I believe his book is really aimed at undermining the old positivistic conception of science: where science consists of a body of verified statements, and discoveries and innovations cause this body of statements to gradually grow.
I can understand why the author thanked his family for their consideration of the author's efforts towards this book, as it must have demanded a lot of painstaking effort not to mention time. I would have given it 3 stars for its complicated way of delivering its points; the language is highly complex that it tends at many certain points throughout, that the arguments contradict each other. Five stars, however for its complexity and taken as a whole it is actually coherent.  Like the choice betw
However, this paradigm at specific points in history, encounter change brought about by new discoveries, anomalies or crises that can disprove it or demand that it be rejected or replaced.
However, whereas Kuhn would propose the concept of "Paradigm Shift" (he actually used the perceptual psychology concept of "Gestalt" in this sense), Popper proposed the method of falsification of scientific theories.
Kuhn's concept can be regarded in the sense, that it is what actually happens in the enterprise of science (it is the actual event), but Popper's falsification even if it is used by practitioners remains an ideal method and the question arises, as to what specific criteria will that 'falsification' be based upon?
This really isn’t something of the deep psychological significance some people seem to think it is and it certainly doesn’t prove that we ‘all see things differently’ – in fact, given these are standard optical illusions ought to be enough to prove we all see the world more or less the same.What is interesting in the ‘watch the white team’ exercise above is that getting us to focus our attention on the white team means we miss entirely anything going on with the black team – even when one of the black team become a moon walking bear.
The previous paradigm of science, one fitting epicycles into the orbits to account for odd observations like the backward progressions of planets, for example, suddenly seemed no longer necessary to people who accepted the new world view.
A really interesting book, and one that's become ingrained so much that you feel like you're not learning too much at first.Science is not a linear ordered means of progress, within neat and orderly steps as we are taught in grade school.
Hence the 'paradigm shift'.The old and new systems are not always instantaneously compatible, and some do not move instantly towards the new.
This shift might be like learning a new language, and thinking solely within this new system.
But it's really interesting to think about it, and apply the methods of science to other fields.
"2- نتيجة ما ذكر في النقطة الأولى أن تتعدد المدارس التي تستند على مشاهداتها وتفسيراتها الخاصة المبنية على نموذجها الإرشادي الخاص بها3- يقول كوهن أن النتيجة التي تتوصل لها هذه المدارس ليست علماً والسبب في أن غياب المعايير أو مناهج البحث المعيارية يؤدي إلى وجود حرية نسبية أمام الباحث في اختيار المشاهدات التي تعزز نظريته وحسب كما أن النتائج تكون غالباً موجهة للرد أو الوقوف أمام المدارس التفسيرية الأخرى وليس لفهم الطبيعة فقط.
ومن هنا يستخلص كوهن قوام العلم القياسي أو ما يعتبرها المهام التي يضطلع بها العلماء بعد الاتفاق على نموذج إرشادي محدد:1- توسيع نطاق المعرفة بالحقائق التي يكشف عنها النموذج الإرشادي.
In its chapters Kuhn, father of the expression “paradigm shift,” shows us how science advances in spasmodic fractures that shatter previous models of nature.
But at 210 pages, mission creep sinks in.The book does more than propose a new model of scientific progress.
A new paradigm, Kuhn tells us, gets scientists no closer to any external reality than its predecessor.
The author uses a public venue, a book for general publication, to address the scientific community in a professional capacity.
But this book isn’t science.
Ignoring the scope that history and philosophy allow writers, the author's writing instead becomes dense, annoying, elitist and even rude.
ولا يحاول العلم القياسي مطابقة نتائجه بالواقع كما ادعت الوضعية ولو حتى بشكل احتمالي بل مطابقتها مع مباديء النموذج الإرشادي، يشبه كون التحقق الإحتمالي بالانتخاب الطبيعي الذي ينتقي الأفضل بحسب بيانات وظروف معينة، وليس الأفضل عامة، ويدعي كون أن التحقق الإحتمالي والتكذيب يتجليان في عمليتي الأزمات والثورة.تمثل الثورة عند كون تغييرا في النظرة إلى العالم، فالباحث لا يزال يرى العالم بعد وقبل الثورة العلمية كما هو، إن الثورة عند كون تؤدي لتغيير في المعطيات الحسية نفسها وليست في طرق معالجتها، وقد استشهد بإمكانية ذلك ببعض التجارب الجشطالتية والنفسية، يقول كون بأن النماذج الإرشادية تستخدم مصطلحات مختلفة وتحاكي عوالم مختلفة بالتالي فإن تلك النماذج الإرشادية غير قابلة للقياس على بعضها البعض، وحتى إن اهتمت بنفس المصطلحات والأمور فإنها أيضاً تنظر إليها من منظور مختلف، فكتلة آينشتاين ليست ذات كتلة نيوتن نفسها، بالتالي فالحوار المتكافيء بين نموذجين إرشاديين مختلفين هو لغو.تعرض وجهة نظر كون تاريخ التطور العلمي بأنه تاريخ التحولات بين النماذج الإرشادية، وليس تاريخ التقدم المطرد، فالتقدم لا يحدث إلا داخل النموذج الإرشادي الواحد تحت اسم العلم القياسي، بينما يعلم الجميع أن الوجهة العامة هي وجهة النظر التي تنادي بالتقدم المطرد والاقتراب من الحقيقة التي تبدو وكأنها المطابقة مع الواقع، إلا أن آراء كون تخالف ذلك.
It challenges notions of scientific progress as liner by suggesting instead a process of "paradigm shift." Essentially, Kuhn argues that researchers in a branch of science accept as normal a set of "received beliefs" that guide and bound their investigations into new phenomena.
Because of this set of accepted beliefs and assumptions, new ways of looking at the world are often suppressed or ignored.
It5 one that is worth reading for most people, and the scientific branches affected by it are not limited to the "hard sciences." Politics, psychology, sociology, cultural change, religious thought, and many other scientific domains can be profitably viewed through the lens of Kuhn's work.
A positive three-star review says Kuhn's major thesis is that scientific progress is largely illusory, when Kuhn says nothing of the sort and has also defended himself against such objections in the past by explaining, very simply, what a careful reader would have already gleaned from reading this book [his actual point is related to the correspondence theory of truth; he argues that while we frequently hear that "successive theories grow ever closer to, or approximate more and more closely to, the truth," that is often not the case; he says "I do not doubt, for example, that Newton's mechanics improves on Aristotle's and that Einstein's improves on Newton's as instruments for puzzle-solving.
When the traditional electromagnetic theory of Maxwell’s Equations couldn’t explain black body radiation, Boltzmann and then Plank developed a set of equations with quantized energy levels to explain the phenomena.
Thomas KuhnFor Kuhn, “Paradigms may be prior to, more binding, and more complete than any set of rules for research that could be unequivocally abstracted from them.” So the preferences toward a deterministic worldview and the corresponding tools predisposed scientists to solve those problems with a well-defined solution.
Kuhn, a physicist and philosopher and historian of science, wrote The Structure of Scientific Revolutions in 1962, producing other editions until his death in 1996. The book was very influential (see description), serving as a starting point for reappraisals within several disciplines. One, psychology, was specifically covered by John Bannon's Philosophy of Psychology class held during the second semester of 1982/83 at Loyola University Chicago.I found the book profoundly stimulating, challenging as it did my rather naive understanding of the physical sciences, and went on to read another book which overtly applied Kuhn's analytic template to psychology.
That prediction, if successful, is often enough of a progress to enable us to evolve our technologies and civilizations.However, unlike what most people assume, science does not have linear cumulative progression where new theories are built on the knowledge of past theories, but rather have what Kuhn called paradigmatic progression which takes place after a scientific crisis—which usually happens when puzzles can no longer be solved—where a new understanding, a new paradigm, of the science is reached through a revolution.
The new paradigm shifted their perspective somehow; they now see the science from a different angle which enables them to find and solve new puzzles or old, previously unsolvable, ones.
I can't change my answer now (or, well, not after 11pm--but I promise not to, now that I've made this public), so I'm curious what people who've been through this hazing ritualbook have to say.When we were assigned Thomas Kuhn's The Structure of Scientific Revolutions and asked to define its relevance to the information professions, I falsely assumed my professors were implying that our field is undergoing a "paradigm shift." Certainly, that argument can be made: With the Internet making information simultaneously more plentiful and harder to find, the effectiveness of distributed tagging and its effects on discussion of cataloguing, and the popularity of digital libraries and plans for automation thereof, nobody would seriously assert that our field is in any way stagnant or unchanging.
And isn't it even more ironic that I'm studying this book from a humanities perspective, a science Kuhn himself might not even call a science?The Structure of Scientific Revolutions is a fascinating book because it works out, detail after tiny detail, how a scientific revolution takes place.
One of the most interesting ideas Kuhn posits is that we can't compare two paradigms with each other (say, Newtonian physics and the theory of relativity), because they both encompass a different paradigm, and with that paradigm a different language and way of seeing the world.
Structure isn't exactly light reading, but it contains some very interesting ideas about the nature of science and the nature of the progress of science.
Original, 2-star review:I think the common criticisms that have been popping up here - Kuhn's conclusions are very relativistic, and he's not always clear or concise in the way he conveys them - are fair.
Kuhn puts forth a very interesting theory, and I think at least a few sections are very helpful when approaching the history of science.
Otherwise, probably not.****I haven't re-read this book, but I do want to change my review - in large part because this is one of the books that I keep coming back to and thinking about over the years.
أهمية هذا الكتاب تكمن في أن أطروحته إيماء إلى سمة وخاصية في العلم (العلنم التجريبي في صورته الغربية) هي في بعديها اداة فعالة لتقدم العلم وفي نفس الوقت خاصية لها خطورة على فهمنا للعلاقة بين العلم والحقيقة، هذه العلاقة التي حاول الغزالي جادهدا تحديد معالمها في مجتمعه العلمي.وهذه الخاصية هي أن المجتمع العلمي لا يتسنى له المضي قدما بدون تبنيه لنموذج حاكم مهيمن على مباحثه يحددها ويحكم مسارها.
كتاب مهم ..
والحديث فيه لا يسعه هذا الحيز
I understand this is a fairly famous book, but I don't understand why.
There is enough material for a short essay, and here it is.
As scientific instruments and measurements improve, discrepancies appear between what is observed and what the current theory, or paradigm, predicts.
As a result, the theory or paradigm must change, but some people resist it.
This book is unbelievably wordy, self contradictory, pompous, and obscure.
I am a practicing "normal" scientist, and I can say that this book has no impact what so ever in science.
Instead, it’s Hegelian-esque: an accepted model less and less satisfactory as more and more things are observed that do not fit; new models emerge and are resisted for reasons rational and not; and one fine day, the paradigm shifts.
For reasons rational and not, a new model becomes accepted.
In that, by a matter of decree, but still, only after some critical number of those in the relevant field accepted that a currency could be backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, and not just gold.

I have made an update to my review in response to comments.http://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpres...
The paradigm they're working under has helped them predict results and expect an answer.Eventually however, problems are discovered that can't be effectively solved within the rules of the paradigm.
The theory of relativity solves the same problems that Newtonian physics does, but it also works with objects moving at high velocities.
Rather than just building upon Newtonian physics incrementally, relativity supplanted large parts of it, even as scientists recognized that parts of Newtonian physics remain useful in certain contexts.To me, a non-scientist, rather than being controversial, this is a really useful way to think about science, and beyond science to how change and progress occur in almost any field.
Referred to by the authors of The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People and Future Edge: Discovering the New Paradigms of Success, this may help one see truths to bring forth new technologies, business models and other re-organizational necessities.
The most important non-fiction book ever written?
Thomas Kuhn was a philopher of science who retraced the history of many scientific discoveries, especially in physics.
He demonstrated how the subjective worldview of the scientists led to their paradigms, or mental models, and ultimately supported a paradigm shift in a whole field like physics.
Kuhn's theory sparked debate among those who saw science as purely objective vs.
the notion that scientists' perceptions are often subjective—influenced by the paradigms they hold.
It is informative to read Kuhn's original descriptions of paradigms to better understand why the concept has been adopted by so many fields ranging from the social sciences to business and education.
However, there are various excellent aspects of this work that bear mentioning: Section I ("A Role for History") sketches a useful way of applying history in order to understand the development of knowledge; Section XI ("The Invisibility of Revolutions") does a nice job of describing the problems with teaching history through science textbooks (and explains why the field is so singularly unaware of its past); and Section XIII ("Progress Through Revolutions") offers a fine critique of others who believe that science is somehow "different" than other fields because it is "getting better" or "working toward the truth." That being written, I would recommend both Feyerabend's Against Method or the introductory essay in Foucault's The Order of Things in lieu of this work (although by all means read this book too, if you've got the time).
In fact I experienced a "paradigm-shift" experience in the reading of it.
If you want to know what that is click on the 'book cover' icon and you'll end up at a site where more eloquent people than me can and will tell you about the content of this book and all about the "paradigm-shift".GREAT STUFF!!!I had to read it as part of my Education Honours course at Sydney Uni in 1974 and it was the most significant book of that year, if not of my life.
