https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16248068-the-elite
So, you see my rating, and you're probably like,  ONE STAR?  And my answer is yes, one star. I spent a good hour thinking about a reason, any reason to rate it two, but I can't. This was just one books of those books that was not my cup of tea. Which, by the way, is extremely disappointing, considering that I really did like the first book. *sigh*I don't like to bash books and insult the author, but I will say why I did give it such a low rating, in a hopefully non-rude way. *My Opinion. Just a
I literally spent 319/323 pages reading about America's ever-changing feelings for Aspen and Maxon, which, by the way, was by far one of the most infuriating and unrealistic love triangles I have ever read about.
I'm going to go eat more chocolate and watch criminal minds to make myself feel better.*please don't kill me for writing this review* *I'm actually a nice person I swear* *gives you some of my chocolate so you won't hurt me*Um hello update: 170 likes?!
I'd like to thank my parents for giving me this extraordinary opportunity (even though they don't know I'm on this website *rebel*) and Kiera Cass for writing a hellish semi-not-good book so I had the chance to complain about it.
I love Maxon.*Maxon does something needlessly cruel in dramatic fashion*America: I hate Maxon.
*runs off to see Aspen**For less unexplained but equally convenient reasons, she has second thoughts about leaving Maxon*America: Aspen who?
I don't know, I didn't really mind The Selection because the Bachelor-like elements (in other words, the catty contestants), while stereotypical, were somewhat amusing, but this is just messed up relationship melodrama between chapters of America replaying her emotional baggage in her head over and over and over again, and it's...
Deleted previous posted review.
This series is like junk food.I know it's not good for me. I'm not even sure I'm enjoying it....But I can't stop!
It turns out I'm absolutely terrible at staying away from you. It's a very serious problem.  Tears! Love-triangles! More tears! Whining! Even more tears! Annnd....honestly, that's pretty much it(Could we make it one chapter without her dissolving into tears? No?  Fabulous. )Picking up where we left off, America is in the "Elite" (the top 6 of the Selection - aka the Bachelor/Princess Diaries mashup). She's joined by Celeste (the B*tch), Marley (the best friend), and three other totally forgetta
She's joined by Celeste (the B*tch), Marley (the best friend), and three other totally forgettable girls - who must still be there solely to keep the book going.Prince Maxon is in love with her but *gasp* America can't decide between super-hot-and-super-rich-royalty and super-hot-and-down-to-earth-soldier.
Annnnd, that's all there is to the plot.There's some filler here and there (rebels, crocodile tears, party planning, crying fits, plots to overthrow the government, unrestrained sobbing) but honestly, there's not much.It's mostly America whining over one boy then the other.
Promise me you'll stay.
The plot just circled from one boy to the other.
All right, boys and girls, I’m back for round two. A year late, but I’ll try to get to The One right after this.In my review of The Selection, I already covered the larger issues this series has. I’m just going to go through this book roughly chronologically and list all the places I eyerolled so hard I saw my brain. Sometimes, I grew extra eyes just so I could side-eye this book some more.(ETA: This list will continue to grow as I complete my reread) 1. REBELS. Seriously, palace people. GET SOM
In our modern world, especially in America, “rebel” has a fairly positive connotation, I think because of the way the US clings to its past as badass rebels against those effete Brits.
She can’t understand the “difficult” reports she’s supposed to study (that’s fine, I don’t always understand complicated economic or foreign policy), but instead of making an effort to learn, she literally says, “I couldn’t bring myself to focus on it.” Your heroine, ladies and gentlemen.
He’s literally wasting money and resources (when people are starving) to have a fancy party for America, and if she was fit to be a princess, she would have shut that down.
7-1-2012:  3:48 PM. Yay! It has a name! I'm so excited for this book! 8-7-2012:  4:19 PM. Why does this have likes?! Haha. I can't wait for the cover! I heard  Cass  has seen it! Of course, I'd prefer to have a male on the cover. Not JUST a male, maybe a well-dressed Maxon (with his face concealed [I hate when publishers put non-concealed faces... It makes me feel like I  have  to picture the characters like on the covers]) with America in his arms. Or maybe the Elite girls in pretty dresses.
Don't get me wrong, I loved that cover, I just want more!
(;In this installment by the lovely  Kiera Cass , Prince Maxon has to decide between the final girls left in the selection, or better known as the Elite girls.
All the while, America, our lovely heroine, is still trying to debate on who she wants to be with- Prince Maxon or Aspen- or better yet, The Crown or her Childhood.
I did like it a lot better than I did the first (hence the 4 stars), though it WAS lacking and I couldn't help but get a bit annoyed with America's "I love Aspen.
2.8/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐“Love is beautiful fear” Guys. Where do I begin? This book was such a disappointment, compared to its predecessor. Don't get me wrong, I flew through it in a couple of hours. Right now, as I'm writing this review, I have read The One and I know who America ends up with, how the book ends, everything. These books are so addicting and such a guilty pleasure, I want to scream. Kiera Cass is not a good writer, but her books captivate you. I still want to throw this fucking book at t
Right now, as I'm writing this review, I have read The One and I know who America ends up with, how the book ends, everything.
I still want to throw this fucking book at the wall because it frustrated me to no end!
But the rest of the Elite know exactly what they want—and America's chance to choose is about to slip away.America was good character in the first book.
In this book, I WANTED TO THROW A BRICK ON HER FUCKING HEAD.
I want to throw so many things when it comes to this book, I wonder why.
The crucial element that made The Selection worth reading was gone, and replaced by the MC's constant insecurity issues and a back-and-forth love triangle between our dear America and Prince charming Maxon Schreave + First love Aspen Leger.First things first, the plot.
And when Maxon went to find out if he could like the other girls, in case America leaves him, she just kind of used Aspen for comfort.
Plus, there was this scene towards the end of the book, in which America and Maxon were stuck in a safe house together during a rebel attack, and they basically had this romantic night and sorted things out.
I raced through this book because I love the concept and where the story seems to be heading, but OH MY GOODNESS America was so frustrating. I discuss the whole thing in depth in my booktalk here: http://youtu.be/m7UHt8a4G9g
America is such a frustrating protagonist, but these books are so fast and addictive I CAN'T PUT THEM DOWN. Onto The One...
This is what the first book did:  I don't know how Cass is going to stretch this into a trilogy. I honestly don't. Unless this has another beautiful cover I can't resist, I'm going to avoid this book like the plague. Update 7/23So... I finished this book. It was just as awful as the first, if not worse. It's worse in that it tries to develop a love triangle and makes a bad name for women everywhere. America decides to love whichever guy is in the room and then forget him the moment he leaves it.
Unless this has another beautiful cover I can't resist, I'm going to avoid this book like the plague.
It's worse in that it tries to develop a love triangle and makes a bad name for women everywhere.
The book attempts to explain what happened and to contribute to the whole dystopian aspect, but the explanation is extremely weak, given through the ever-cliche diary from a really old dead guy who happens to be very important.
I didn't find any part of this book enjoyable, but I want to finish this series and find out what the hell actually happens.
This book is bad.
Love you!Oh, man.Another really stupid thing is that Maxon entrusts America with a top-secret book about the founder of the new version of America (again the country, not the person - wow you could almost say her name is dumb) and he’s like, DON’T TELL ANYONE.
NOT EVEN YOUR F*CK BUDDY GUARD I DON’T ACTUALLY KNOW ABOUT.So America does the logical thing and brings the diary onto national television.Our little genius!But my hatred of this book, beyond how dumb it is, comes down to three main things.One, it is so boring.
"My feelings about Maxon. Maxon's feelings about me. Whatever was going on between Aspen and me. And my feelings about actually becoming a princess." That quote up there is all you need to know about The Elite.It's genuinely painful to read. It's worse than The Selection because, for all its flaws, it was a debut. I'm willing to cut debuts a little slack. Sequels are when writers start finding their footing, both in terms of plot and writing. Let's start with the first. Plot, what plot? It's al
It's all about America's feeeelings, about Maxon, about Aspen, about becoming queen—which she doesn't want, because she's not like other girls.
The servants, who America cared so much about in the first book (BECAUSE SHE'S NOT LIKE OTHER GIRLS), barely make an appearance.You can literally copy and paste the rebel invasions from The Selection, and nothing would change.
Some things I liked, such as America calling out Maxon for saying he loves her, but essentially cheats on her every day with the Selection, or the line she gives Aspen about not wanting their relationship to be out of default.
If I did I would be at Disney World right now living the dream instead of writing this during one of my very limited study breaks.And now a word from the Disney Princesses...We here at the Magic Kingdom full of princess want to make something clear to you, America Singer is not a princess.
Princes not knowing how to take care of their kingdoms and being changed to hairy monsters leaving the rest of us to go around singing and wanting something more.Well, it made sense in my movie.I think a better princess's world to talk about would be Mulan's.
Hmm which dress would you say is better?Oh gosh, I can't choose!
I couldn't concentrate on anything until I finished and luckily I already read most of it at home so there wasn't that much to go.I'm looking forward to seeing what happens with that awkward love triangle and hopefully more plot twists.
And you know what, I'm not really sure what to expect besides the competition and love triangle in terms of plot but hey that's just one more thing to look forward to.But now I have to wait patiently like a good little girl for this to come out.check my blog if you want: Story Envy
America is so much more obnoxious, indecisive, and all around THE WORST in this book which makes it a 3 star, but the rest was pretty great.I pretty much LOATHE the show The Bachelor, and this book felt a lot more like that than the first book, so that was not super great.
THINGS BESIDES THE SELECTION YAY!!!America and Maxon have their moments where I really like them, but most of the time I hate them, but I love to hate them?
one minute of silence for the book i just buried in my garden.
Varias situaciones, como lo que ocurre con Marlee y el guardia o el encontronazo que tiene America de Maxon y Celeste me tuvieron tal que así: No me esperaba para nada que las situaciones se fuesen a tornar así de serias.
Y en efecto, cuando se descubre todo el tinglado que tenía Marlee (que ole ella por liarse con el guardia, eh, que si pasa del culo de Maxon me parece muy normal) me quedé de piedra.
Porque no me esperaba PARA NADA que Maxon tuviera el mínimo interés en Celeste, y menos del tipo sexual, cuando se le ve tan...
lol!The Elite has many things, drama, dark secrets, intense competition, betrayal, treason, and annoying girls issue..Firstly, I started reading this book with fun.
We all know the rule well!Prince Maxon It’s quite hard to say that I like Maxon’s character in book 1 or book 2 more!
That’s weird but it is.(view spoiler)[When Malee and Carter’s bad situation I was like..Me: Maxon!!
When bad hero or playboy hero do the thing like Maxon did.
(view spoiler)[It's hard to okay when good guy/beta type like Maxon turn bad.
America SingerI have like and hate feeling with her character.
4.75 Absolutely Delightful ★'s  “You know that you’ve found something amazing, and you want to hold on to it forever; and every second after you have it, you fear the moment you might lose it.”  “Sometimes I feel like we're a knot, too tangled to be taken apart.” Buddy read with my, girl Desireé :) Reread for me :) The Selection started out with 35 girls it's now down to just 6 of them - The Elite. Oh. My. Goodness! My face hurts from smiling so damn much. This was a fantastic second installment
there really isn't much world building involved with these books, it all pretty much takes place right in the Castle.
Maxon is very stubborn as well and has a bit of his father's temper so you can imagine what it's like when he and America fight lol.
I love America and Maxon together so I wanna declare right now that I'm #TeamMaxon, ALL THE WAY!
Alright, that's enough, I have to start The One (book 3) like right now!
And that terrifies me...”“...I want it to be as easy as breathing for you to say yes.” “It wasn’t like I made his world better.
I told you America.......those vipers who can wear 7-inch heels are deadly.Honestly, who cares if it's only down to six girls now??!!
They can still walk on crazy heels without breaking their feet.
They're still WOMEN WHO WILL CHALLENGE YOU TO A CAT-FIGHT.Now you guys see how dangerous and how awesome this book is.
America still fights with herself and others for Maxon, but honestly, she still doesn't even know where her fricking heart lies.
So, I mean, to pile on deadly girls, along with 2 guys who break her to bits.........sort of hard to figure out your life, ya know??Just two words:READ IT.
24 Apr. '13 Bad news: I didn't like itGood news: I finished it in one day to relieve me of my boredom at workBetter news: I liked it more than The Selection. Or maybe that's simply because I knew what to expect, so my hopes weren't high to begin with?Still want that tiara.I've full on ranted discussed about characterization in my review of the first book, and since the special cookie that is America still suffers from the same problems, I won't be going into characterization in this review. If
If anyone wants to know every little problem I had with America, I will just direct you to my first review.I'll get the good stuff out of the way first, before I bag this book to the gutters: 
How a King that cannot even protect his own palace walls manages to keep hold on an entire Kingdom baffles me.But as if having ridiculously forced rebel attacks was not enough, just as it was in The Selection, 
TEAM MAXON!TEAM MAXON!TEAM MAXON!TEAM MAXON!TEAM MAXON!TEAM MAXON!TEAM MAXON!TEAM MAXON!TEAM MAXON!TEAM MAXON!TEAM MAXON!DOWN WITH ASPEN!DOWN WITH ASPEN!
DOWN WITH ASPEN!DOWN WITH ASPEN!GRRR!
2013?!*turns off caps lock*omg, can't wait!EDIT:Wow, America.
woooow.I waited almost a full year for this book and you just went ahead and acted like Bella.
Stringing around these two boys when it's achingly obvious who you're going to pick.
I just can't.I pray that Maxon picks you only for the reason that Celeste is a dumbass bitch who carries more about her closet than the people and that's all I'm saying.#done
Το πρώτο βιβλίο τελειώνει κάπως...Με την Αμέρικα που βρίσκεται σε φάση μα θαρρώ πως θα τα μπλέξω απ'την Κική και την Κοκό ποια να διαλέξω, τον καημένο τον Άσπεν να περιμένει, να την περιμένει την αγάπη του όσο και να χρειαστεί και τον Μέιξον να είναι αστατος πολύ και όπου θέλει (μάλλον σε όποια θέλει) να πηγαίνει.
Καμία εξέλιξη, καμία πρόοδος,καμία αλλαγή, ενώ κάθε φορά που η Κιρα θέλει να ανεβάσει κάπως τους τόνους λέει "βρε δεν βάζω αντάρτες να μπουκάρουν στο παλάτι;"Τι σκατα φρουρούς έχει αυτο το παλάτι που κάθε δύο μέρες μπουκάρουν αντάρτες, απορώ.
Οι μόνοι εισβολείς είναι οι κωλοκατσαριδες.Χμμμμ, τώρα που το ξανασκέφτομαι, προτιμώ τους αντάρτες.
AMERICA
I really wanted to like this book, more so than some others because The Selection was so good for me.
I can like love triangles if they are done well but in this book it has got to be one of the most terrible I've ever read about.
Is the diary what the rebels are after or is it something else?I used to love Maxon to bits and pieces but this book ruined him for me.
I get that America messed up and that suddenly Kriss and Maxon got close but it was all so awful to read about.
Thanks to HarperCollins publishers and Netgalley.)This is book 2 in the ‘The Selection’ series, and picks up where book 1 left off.The 35 girls of ‘The Selection’ have been reduced to just 6, and it’s time for America to not only work to keep her place in the game, but to also make a decision as to who she really wants to be with – Prince Maxon, or her childhood sweetheart AspenThe competition is also heating up, with some unexpected events, and more rebel action.What do the rebels want?
I HATE YOU SO FUCKING MUCH.
I'll make a simple list letting you know all the things you need to know about this book:1) America is a conceited skag2) America has no idea what love actually is3) America is rash and does stupid shit before she understands what's actually going on4) Maxon is a douche5) Maxon doesn't know what love is6) Aspen is also a douche7) Aspen doesn't know what love is8) Aspen is reckless and his recklessness could get people killed, but he doesn't give a fuck because he's in luuuuuuurve.
9) Everyone is stupid except for Marlee10) Don't read this book.
I flew through this book in less than 24 hours, taking me out of my pitiful reading slump!Even though I enjoyed reading this book, it was frustrating at times.
I found myself annoyed at how America was acting and how her relationships with Maxon and Aspen played out.
Also, I am seriously wondering why Aspen is still there because I don't see any passion between them like I do with Maxon.
Overall, I enjoyed The Selection more than the sequel but still look forward to the next book to see how it all plays out.
