https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29560.Blindness
And in this respect, he resembles his author, who started with "Blindness" - his particular blind spot in the world - , and went on to explore "Living", "Loving", and all the other strange facets of the "Nothing" that our voices create to form our existence in time and space.I am not sure I would have appreciated this first novel, had I not been immersed in Green's later writing already.
As it is now, my own experience makes me "see" the typical elements of Green's world, and I have "blind faith" in his voice.Splendid first novel, not to say awesome!
Everything they loved, that they were most passionate about, was no longer within their grasp.To add to their darkness, it should be understood this was a time long before cellphones and iPads and talking computers and talking watches -- all those little conveniences which today make the world, not necessarily more bearable for the blind, but certainly more navigable by giving an iota of simulated freedom.
(My father died when I was quite young, leaving a whole collection of us to make our way in the world; the elder brother took on the role of helper in the family, so for him, the loss was unbearable, unmanageable, unforgivable.) All these torments, Green understood.The novel is as oppressive as the condition: it becomes a metaphor, a simulation of blindness.
But the internal monologues, technically advanced and all, are *torturously* dull: repetitive thinking about boring aspects of life does not make for a worthwhile read.
Anyone who continues to spout the idea that one must 'show, not tell,' should be forced to read these monologues, just once, and that should put them on the right track.
One particularly interesting trick, though, is the way he changes tense in order to indicate a switch from narration to a character's direct thought; it's something I've toyed with myself.
But Green puts thought in the past tense and narrates in the present; I went the other way round.
British smart-ass kid is blinded in a freak train accident.
Part Two picks up the life of a young girl on the estate of John Haye (now-blind boy).
She retrieves eggs from the unmown grass to augment their diet of iffy bread and canned sardines.
She boils the eggs in days-old dishwater.
Etc. Yes, John Haye and Joan (he calls her June) walk out, literally, for a while.An interesting juxtaposition of internal monologues with and without sight.
As I turned them, they came out in my hands.
The book literally turned to dust in my hands.
Chrysalis is set after the accident, with John at home wrapped in a protective cocoon of stepmother, nanny and nurse, knowing his life has been changed completely, but not knowing what he can do now.
He is not taken to London to get him away from an unsuitable young woman, although Nanny certainly disapproves; it is his desire to go and his stepmother's devoted care for him which makes her give up her country life to take him.
Ostensibly, this is the account of a John Haye, young English public schoolboy who is blinded in a freak accident.
Along with the account of his convalescence we are introduced to his stepmother and the domestic servants at John's ancestral home, Barwood.The perspective abruptly shifts to Joan Entwhistle, the somewhat slatternly daughter of the town drunk, a defrocked vicar.
John is a student at boarding school and in the middle of his last year, is blinded in a fluke accident.
This short novel shows us a bit of his life before blindness, but mostly how he and his family (including servants, because it's that kind of family) adjust.
Food: this is reminiscent of my experience eating a home made Ukrainian meal for the first time.
I didn't know what I was eating and had very little context for what to expect.
I had to trust my host to guide me in what I was eating and how to go about consuming it.
No, not that Blindness.Update:I know. I abandon too many books...But I've read too many books about romantic egoists who suffer in some way. I don't have the attention span to read one that isn't even polished. (This was Henry Green's first novel.)It's not bad though.
A lesser Green. His first book -- some of it poor, not worth the time unless you must read everything he set down. Bright spots are in the middle with John and 'June' meeting and figuring out what to do with each other and then a few paragraphs at the end with Margaret.
A classic read.
We all know the language of a classic book.
It takes me a little while to get used to the classic language of writing and most of the time I’m used to it by the second day of reading.
It’s not easy for me to connect with the writer when reading a classic book but for Henry Green’s writing, I found myself sort of connecting to his style of writing from day one of reading his novel which is quite unusual for me.
2 out of 5 as I am personally not a fan of classic novels.
Last year when I was shopping the bookstore had "blind date" books on sale.
Books that are wrapped in plain paper and have key words written on the packaging that give hints to what the books is about.
I decided to give it a whirl and ended up with this book.
Somehow I had never heard of the author before which seems strange since he has about 5 books on the 1001 book list.
When a freak accident causes him to go blind, the rest of the book deals with how he and his family copes.
Loved it!
Confused about the ending and wasn’t fond of John but enjoyed!
With Lowry, it was his novella ‘Through the Panama’, with Durrell it was The Alexandria Quartet, with Blixen it was her story ‘Tempest’… and with Green it was the first novel by him I read, Loving.
It’s true that there’s a dazzling level of technique on display in Blindness, a facility with prose no writer can fail to admire.
And it’s Green’s writing prowess I certainly admire, rather than his choice of subjects or the stories he chooses to tell.
But there’s a profound pleasure to be found in reading prose that is just put together so well, and that’s why I treasure Green’s writing.
I wrote a brief but -- in my opinion -- thoughtful review, and somehow deleted it.
Alas.I found Green's writing beautiful and intriguing, a little difficult or irritating at times, but mostly very enjoyable.
The plot of this story was something else -- particularly the rather arbitrary point on which the plot hinges.
I thought it was interesting to see the ways the protagonist alternatively rises and sinks around his new circumstances.
His relationship with the neighborhood girl was intriguing but again, confusing; I did not quite understand her purpose, except as another point in a coming of age story.
While some passages effectively illuminate the nature of blindness and the isolation that ensues, much of Henry Green’s first novel was dull.
And, try as I might, I was just not that interested in hearing about it.The main strength of this novel is Green’s subtlety in developing his characters.
To ease his boredom, John courts Joan, daughter of the defrocked vicar, reasoning that she must at least be interesting if she’s led a difficult life.
The herd did not feel all that he did, all his private tortures, and he was unfit to die like this, shut up in the traditional living tomb.”
The very young Henry Green's first novel (which, oddly, includes characters named Greene--did he still think of himself as Henry Yorke when he wrote this?) is precocious, sometimes claustrophobic, different from his later work while suggesting the brilliance to come in LIVING, LOVING, and my two favorites, PARTY GOING and CONCLUDING.
I admit I could do without Green's tendency toward anthropomorphism ("The sun he shone, the sky she smiled" etc.) but compare this to, say, Isherwood's ALL THE CONSPIRATORS or Huxley's CROME YELLOW and it's easy to see how far ahead of his coevals Green really was.
The story is of a 17 year old boy named John who is blinded in an accident on the way home from boarding school.Set in the English countryside of the 1920's, the book starts out before the accident, and then proceeds to after the accident.
I find the concept of going blind terrifying, and it made me think about how one would cope with such an event.
Yet all in all the book was quite readable.
This novel is severely uneven and certainly less accomplished from a literary point of view than Green's later work.
However, Green's uncanny ear for speech and nuances of meaning, as well as his delicate and sensual descriptions, makes this novel more than worth reading.
Why the publishers decided to group this piece of juvenilia with his two last ones ("Nothing" and "Doting") in a single volume, and in the wrong chronological order for that matter, is beyond me, but I have to admit that the contrast provides striking insight into Green's themes and concerns.

While I loved the subject matter, and even, intellectually, really liked the way it was approached with the differing P.O.V's and moderate stream of consciousness delivery, I have to admit I found it a more difficult read than I expected.
I sought this out because of its place on the 1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die list, which is more or less my go-to when I run short on ideas for my next read.
I'm not sure that I agree with this book's continued placement on that list above some of the books that have fallen off from lists past.
Clearly an apprentice work when compared to the glory to come but a damn fine one nevertheless. We see Green experimenting with techniques not only current at the time, but that he would later mold into his own unique take on how to tell a story in the most honest way possible. His empathetic handling of the central characters is particularly good and unlike many other contributors here, I didn't find their dialogues (interior or otherwise) anything but compelling. Great job from a great genius!
I was expecting this to be better. I didn't care much about the characters, they seem like a bunch of milquetoasts. And that has nothing to do with Britishness!I was also annoyed by the plot summary on the back of this edition. It gives away the whole story! If I wasn't motivated to finish this before, I certainly am not now. I will probably throw it in my school bag and pull it out when I'm waiting for the train.
This novel is a little uneven, but it was his first, and he wrote it when he was an undergrad, for Pete's sake. It's certainly worth reading, especially if you're interested in Modernism and can be patient with stream-of-consciousness. It's not as challenging in that respect as some of Woolf and Joyce, but the quicksilver shifts of point of view require fast attention.
"Blindness was written by Green in the early 1920s when he was a young man, and as such stands as a good companion piece to F. Scott Fitzgerald’s This Side of Paradise."http://superfastreader.com/blindness-...
Although the first part of this book is really good, the diary excerpts from John's time at school, the middle and latter half drug terribly.
I read this by accident while trying to read the more famous book Blindness. It was hard to get through, that's all I say.
