https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/537296.Frog_and_Toad_Are_Friends
To be making books for children is to be in a sort of state of grace.- Arnold LobelBooks have their own special resonance in the portion of our brain that holds Nostalgia. Those stories of our youth, when the life-long joys of reading were just begin to flourish, are often some of the most special. Those of us fortunate enough to have cut our teeth on Arnold Lobel’s Frog and Toad series have experienced all of the great things of reading twice: the first is when we read these touching, funny an
Those of us fortunate enough to have cut our teeth on Arnold Lobel’s Frog and Toad series have experienced all of the great things of reading twice: the first is when we read these touching, funny and beautiful books that detail the wonderful parts of friendship; the second is recalling fondly those moments spent in Frog and Toad’s world – whether revisiting that world accessing Nostalgia or reading the stories to your children, grandchildren and seeing Frog and Toad anew through their eyes.The Contemporary Jewish Museum here in San Francisco has hosted an exhibit on Arnold Lobel for the past few months – it closes this weekend, so today my wife, daughter and I paid a visit to the exhibit.
There were finger puppets from the Mouse Soup book series for kids to enjoy, drawing tables and stacks of Lobel books.
However, I have always found Arnold Lobel's presented text rather annoyingly dragging (both when I first read Frog and Toad Are Friends as a child, and when I recently reread the book for a group discussion in the Children's Literature Group's Picture Book Club).
Therefore, and personally, I think that while the narrative does manage to more than adequately show the deep friendship between frog and toad, the accompanying illustrations are actually so much more evocative and expressive of that comradeship and certainly considerably more fun and engaging (I was actually getting more than a bit annoyed at the many textual repetitions and at times really just wanted the stories to be over and done with).
"A little more sleep can not hurt me!!"
Mostly here though, I'm Toad, who is electrically charged and loud, can be sad for small reasons, throws occasional tantrums, and loses things.
Lobel crafted this amphibian duo with love and care, which is apparent from beginning to end.
The plots are small and beautiful, but far from simple; each story contains a kernel of psychological truth, and even occasionally a bite.
I imagine parents reading this with their kids will probably see something of their kids in each and every Frog and Toad story.
A must read; if you have not yet read a Frog and Toad story, go forth and do so.
"THE WHOLE WORLD IS COVERED IN BUTTONS AND NOT ONE OF THEM IS MINE!!!" Haha, oh, gosh, I can SO relate to that sometimes ;-) And to poor Toad, looking all over for his missing button, finding many others but not his!
And when he finds out he has caused Frog a big inconvenience, Toad does something very nice for his friend.
(The only chapter I wasn't a huge fan of was "A Swim" because, while I could see the humor and understand that sometimes it is very hard to resist laughing at something absurd (and the little "moral of the story" that Toad brought the attention on himself by being so concerned about how he looked, I'm not sure I liked that Frog did laugh at him.)All in all, highly recommended and a great book about friendship!
I miss quiet cheerfulness like Frog and Toad.
I enjoyed very much the whole 15 minutes it took me to read the 5 stories in here.I couldn't read it to the kids at my job (the story is geared toward much younger children than those who would understand the book as esl learners), which is a shame.
That said, it merits repeated reading as an adult.
It cheered me up darned well.Yes, it's cowardly to give a Caldecott Honor book five stars.
It was fun.
I wish I had a friend like this.
It's been a good 14 years or so.
5*This was so funny. I want to talk about the funny parts, but I don't want to spoil it.pdf:http://www.arvindguptatoys.com/arvind...
There's one story where Toad and Frog go swimming.
Later when it's time to come out Toad tells Frog to look away, but then a mouse overhears and the mouse's ears perk up at the sound of potential embarrassment.
So he climbs out, and all the animals laugh at his silly bathing suit and how funny he looks.
To teach kids that if you're a funny looking unpopular weirdo, you should expect to be mocked, teased and/or publicly humiliated?Hang in there Toad, revenge is a dish best served cold.
Also, living well is the best revenge.
Such a pity I didn't get to read this book as a child.Every time Toad would speak I'd just go, "I feel you" and "This dude really gets me".
Toad the not-zen gardener yells at his seeds "Now seeds, start growing!" That is just about where I am with all my plans in life.Yep, me with a little pitchfork prodding inanimate objects while yelling, "Move it!"I find something new every time I reread Arnold Lobel.
“Frog and Toad Are Friends” is a Caldecott Honor Book from Arnold Lobel about two amphibian pals, Frog and Toad who go through life together.
“Frog and Toad Are Friends” is definitely a brilliant introduction to the “Frog and Toad” series that children will love!Arnold Lobel’s book about true friendship has truly deserved the honorable Caldecott Honor award.
The images that stood out the most in this book are the images of Frog and Toad’s expressions as Frog always has a happy expression on his face while Toad always has a grumpy expression on his face.“Frog and Toad Are Friends” is a brilliant and cute book about true friendship that many children will cherished for many years.
There's Lucy and Ethel, there's Felix and Oscar, there's George and Martha, and there's Frog and Toad. Another great pair. Shelved in the easy reader section of the library (or stashed on our bookshelves in a horribly disorganized manner at home), these books rise above so many of the learn how to read books because of the stories and characters. Nothing is sacrificed to easy vocabulary. These are great stories - funny, poignant, silly - stories that are a great reward to parents because they can enjoy them while they help their fresh young readers stagger across the sentences.
I’d assumed I’d read the Frog and Toad books but after just reading this first book, I’m thinking it was my first time reading it.Thanks to the Children's Books group for alerting me to it.
I’ve found so many worthy picture books and novel because of this group, its book clubs and also its members’ message posts in the discussion threads.This story is sweet and amusing, at times bordering on being hilarious, as I know I might have giggled at parts when I was 6 and 7 years old, and it’s extremely engaging.
This book was one of my favorites as a young girl. Just read the book to my daughter and she enjoyed it.
Frog and Toad are friends. It's right there in the title. These amphibious Bert-and-Ernies spent their days taking walks and swimming, at least when one is not depressed in bed and the other is trying to cheer him up. Three of the five stories in the book involve at least one of them wanting to stay in bed all day. The other is a cute story about a button that teaches contrasting words -- thick/think, round/square, etc. And the last is a story about Toad's funny bathing suit. Everyone laughs at him, but it is a funny bathing suit.
Reading to fulfill a challenge requirement. It's still just as lovely to me as when I was a child. Frog and Toad are essential childhood books!
I do other things & try not to push it (unless it’s been too long and I’m getting behind on my reading goal, then I might try one of the other things.) If I do want to read, but nothing is holding my attention, I usually turn to graphic novels, comic books & manga, because I’m almost always in the mood to read those.
I like adding them to the list in my head titled: “Books I Want To Read To/With My Future Children” and I dream of the day where I’ll own them all and have a cute little bookshelf for my kids.
:D I loved the Frog & Toad books when I was a kid.
This book is a collection of five stories about the strong friendship between the neurotic Toad and rational Frog.
Children enjoy these stories because they can see themselves in the characters and they relate to the experiences Frog and Toad encounter.
Arnold Lobel’s roundness of characters and tones of greens, yellows, and browns is comforting to children, as well as a nice balance between the excitement and business of the stories.
There is plenty of white space surrounding the text, and the words are in large print and spaced out for easy reading.Personal Reaction: I enjoyed this book; Arnold Lobel is one of my favorite authors and illustrators of children’s books.
Through five engaging stories, the friendship between Frog and Toad is on display as they look for lost buttons, greet spring weather, and wait for mail.
Each simple plot is resolved in a few pages, usually through a clever manner: the buttons are refashioned as embellishments on Frog’s jacket, Toad finally wakes up in time to enjoy spring, and Toad receives the best pen pal he could ask for: his friend, Frog.The text features short sentences with both monosyllabic and multisyllabic words, and some specialty words (“November” and “sparrow”).
Animal personification is obviously a characteristic of the Frog and Toad Series, as is large print, chapter-like divisions, and decorative illustrations that are sure to engage younger students.
I read this because of this:http://www.newyorker.com/books/page-t...I'm fortunate to have a couple of frogs to my toad, and I sent them the link - and told them I wanted to be the toad, although I supposed I could be the frog if being the toad was important to them.
They agreed I could be the toad."Did you read that when you were a kid?" Dom asked, and I told him that I almost definitely had, although I was generally unimpressed at that age with any story that didn't have smugglers or counterfeiters, pirates, or - at the very least - a clueless heiress in danger of being swindled out of her inheritance.
THE BEST EVER
I used this for my 2016 challenge as "The first chapter book you ever remember reading." I was crazy about the frog and toad books when I was little. They were always a fun read.
The robins, who were cruel and discouraging to Toad, could not fly as high as Toad's kite when he finally got it off the ground. Toad is a sweet and sensitive soul, and it's Frog's loving encouragement that gives him the validation and confidence to keep trying.These are endearing stories about a queer couple, in which one partner has extreme difficulty with depression and executive functioning. In response, the other partner offers love, where most people only offer shame.
I loved this book! It's sweetness was absolutely charming! I had not heard of this book until a friend mentioned it. She said it was one of her favorites and now, I can see why.
Frog and Toad Are Friends by Arnold Lobel is a contemporary realistic fiction book.
Frog wakes up Toad for spring because he wants to play, Frog doesn’t feel well so Toad tries to come up with a story for Frog, Frog helps Toad try to find a lost button, Toad looks funny in his bathing suit, and Frog sends Toad a letter because he’s sad he gets no mail.I thought this was a good example of realistic fiction because it showed how friends rely on one another and share many different experiences together.
After reading this article (http://www.newyorker.com/books/page-t...) about the author having been gay, I wanted to go back and read these books which I loved so much as a child before I even knew that gay people (or frogs) existed. How delightful to read these books again with the invitation to see the relationship between the two characters as a loving, committed relationship that could be just as easily interpreted as friendship, romance, both, or something else entirely that transcends labels and just deeply resonates with people like me who love other people in our lives very much.
A great book of short stories about two friends, Frog and Toad. I remember these stories from my childhood. They are classics that have withstood the test of time. We really enjoyed reading this book together. This story was selected as one of the books for the February 2012 - Friendship reads at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
Lovely stories about the friendship between Frog and Toad.
Great book for kids who have just learned to read. My 10 year old claims this was one of her favorite and insisted I read it to our 4 year old.
Обожавам Frog и Toad, историята "Писмото" ми е особено любима от тази книга.
