https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/867621.The_Way_Some_People_Die

While Ross Macdonald lacks some precision in descriptions of places, people, and atmosphere of the undisputed classic of genre, the former is still really good in his own right.
You do feel like you really ended up in noir version of California in early fifties with living breathing people.
If you will see the final twist coming before Archer explained it you have my greatest respect.
So this is the first book of the series which finally showed me why people call Ross Macdonald one of the classic of noir along with the great Dashiel Hammett and Raymond Chandler.
It makes me sad that Ross Macdonald is practically forgotten now while crime-writers who couldn't carry his metaphorical jock strap are getting six figure Hollywood deals.
It's got sweaty, sun-kissed Southern California Ambience to spare but also has precise meditations imbedded under the surface of it's sure plotting that lay it out cold what it's like to be a thinking human being under duress(read: just fucking breathing at all) in 20th Century America.
File under: Fuck all the Francophile baboons and ball-less Nietzsche reading navel-gazers who think that Genre can't rise to the station of true Literature, true art.
I think this novel is the best of the first three because Archer himself was the most interesting part of the novel.
It was not predictable or tried too hard to be smart like some other PI stories.
He just chased down the evidence with alot of legwork, smart thinking.The most impressive part of the novel was how Ross Macdonald wrote intelligently about issues outside the PI story.
That he also thought about more important things than catching a killer made it a more rewarding read.Lew Archer grew in my eyes from just another cool hardboiled PI hero to a more compelling character on his own.
This is my first Ross MacDonald novel and another "why, oh why, have I never read this author?" There is a plot, and it's good, but the level of writing sets this apart, and above, most crime writers.
There is crime noir style here, but one could never argue this is "style over substance" like a few of Hammett's works.
Ross MacDonald just gets it right all around, especially the characters.
Then again, we do have those characters who have hit rock bottom: Archer gets the really bad guys (or someone else does) in a plot that never for a moment lets up.
This thing called H---you know, horse; smack; skag; junk; the spike; flea powder; in my neighborhood we call it The Albino Chili Powder---it's rampant.
Because of her I named my daughter Kinesthesia---Kitchenette for short---but that's a whole different story.
Let's call him Joe. A lot of people are after Joe. There's a cat named Dowser who wants Archer to find him and Galley, too.
Doesn't matter how you die; it's the way what counts.
Personally, I think I'll write one called Guess Who's Coming to Die Now...As soon as I get off the Albino Chili Powder.

Actually I’ll do better than that, every character in ‘The way Some People Die’ feels real and rounded, as if they could stride out of this book and carry a whole novel by themselves.
Okay that bare description of it may not make it sound overly exciting, but the base materials of any detective novels are much the same – it’s what the author does with them that matters.
The author here is Ross MacDonald and this book sees him at his best.
He had appeared to be one of those rare knights going down the mean street in search of truth & justice.I had liked him.And then, befitting the hardboiled way of life depicted in all those classics, I had gone past him.
Nobody tells the truth.Murder takes place.Amidst all these tumultuous churning of human pain and misery, Archer keeps his torch burning, looking for truth, and justice.He finds truth.
It's all about the way some people die.If you love mystery, this is a must-read.
If you like a human drama being narrated with savagery & love, but in exquisite English, this is a must-read again.Highly Recommended.
A classic noir novel featuring Lew Archer. MacDonald is a masterful writer every bit as good as Chandler. The dialogue in this one practically crackles, and the characters are not to be forgotten. They just don't write them like this anymore. If you like your private eyes hard-boiled and tough, this one is for you. Highly recommended.
Has been disillusioned by past experiences in either the police force or the military (double points if he's been disillusioned by both).2.
Experiences hot flashes at the thought of meting out Justice (with a capital J), is wholly and unrepentently self-righteous, and yet can see more shades of gray than a color-blind sketch artist.3.
Is a sucker for several classes of female: a woman in a tight dress and tall heels, a young girlchild who's hard up with no place to go, and someone's downtrodden mama.6.
But not such a sucker to forget that all women are the source of every good man's problems.
Unlike the recent Thompson book The Grifters (set in the same time period and locations) which I found a bit too Dostoevsky-like, Ross MacDonald delivers well crafted, excellently plotted novels that leave one little to doubt as to the skill of this author.
The pacing of his style is superb, timed just right, delivering punch bowls of satisfaction to sip from.Lew Archer is a curious private eye, seeming to shun involvement with women though he is attracted to them which leaves tension in the minds of the reader.
Occasionally he offers deep insights about life and the nature of humanity that seem more like something Socrates would utter than an obscure private detective.Macdonald (and Chandler) are both lauded for limning the seedy underbelly of Southern California and capturing its essence, to the degree such a thing is possible.
I have read that Chandler hated Macdonald and his novels and I don't know enough about this, yet, to know if this was due to a feeling that Macdonald was defaming the genre with his more cerebral detective or had some sort of personal animus against him?THE WAY SOME PEOPLE DIE seems a pretty straightforward case compared to the first book of Macdonald's that I read (The Chill).
Quick!What means "chorybantic"?Trick question ...an apparent typo in my edition. The word is actually "corybantic" --- meaning "wild; frenzied" as in:  Five or six revelers, all of them women, and hard cases by their looks, were standing around the piano in a chorybantic circle, moving various members in approximate time to the music. Many times in this book I had to stop and look up certain words that I'd never before encountered in years of reading all types of fiction and non-fiction.Macdonal
He rivals Poe or Conan Doyle in the use of obscure words used perfectly.Macdonald's forte is plotting and narrative -at least in this, his third Lew Archer novel.However, at times his dialogue can seem a bit forced and unbelievable.
Hearthstone of the Death Squad is a reference to an Old Time Radio Show character that aired on CBS from 1951-1952 alternating with The CBS Mystery Theatre.The rest is ancient Greek to me.Now, maybe I'm just being picky because none of the dialogue Macdonald writes is as dopey as what you'd find in a Mickey Spillane "Mike Hammer" novel but sometimes the dialogue gets a mite clunky.But the writing and the plots and the plot-twists are just perfect.
He wrote in all 18 Lew Archer novels, the name of Macdonals's PI being in part a tribute to Sam Spade's partner.
This is a 1951 Lew Archer story that spans some 245 pages.
Archer, an ex-cop, works as a solo private op.
Mrs Samuel Lawrence wants to hire Archer to find her daughter, Galley, who has disappeared.
Galley was fascinating to men.
One look at her picture and Archer knew he'd never forget her face.
Galley, a nurse by profession, has gotten mixed up with hoods, dope dealers, and murder.
Ross Macdonald's writing is so alive and luminous. Sometimes when reading his novels, I just stop reading so I can relish a phrase or a sentence. Of course, his characters are beautifully etched, his descriptions are flawless, and his plots keep me reading nonstop. But amid all this talent exists a man with a great love for words and, I believe, great fondness for his audience, because he kept us all so very satisfied... for a very long time. Sigh.
Included as Book 2 in the “Archer in Hollywood” collection.
Here’s why I like a well written old-fashioned detective story:"For two hours I drove down the white rushing tunnel carved by my headlights in the solid night.
At the end of the run the unbuilt town lay dark around me, its corners desolate under the sparse streetlights.
When I stepped out of my car the night shot up like a tree and branched wide into blossoming masses of stars.
If a fruit fly lived for one day instead of two, it hardly seemed to matter.
Except to another fruit fly."
Like the other early ones, there is a lot about gangsters, and not so much psychological depth.The story begins when Archer visits a middle aged woman, Mrs. Lawrence, who has called him to investigate the disappearance of her daughter, Galatea or Galley, who is about 27 and a nurse.
This is a repeating pattern: a large number of the Lew Archer novels start with him investigating the disappearance of someone's teenage or older child.
We meet Joe's brother, some Hollywood film people, Dowser and other henchmen, and several more characters as the plot becomes quite complex.
I have to give it 5 :)I can't believe I have been on this 3rd rock from the sun for 48 years and I haven't read any Ross Macdonald.
I had forgotten that some months ago, armed with a credit card and far too much red wine I had bought Ross Macdonald: Four Novels of the 1950s.
Wow, wow and triple wow.I can see why he is considered the heir to the Hammett/Chandler legacy however his style is different.
There isn't the dated racist element that infiltrates a great Chandler.
I highly recommend this book for any lover of classic noir.
Macdonald neatly reverses this formula (almost reverses it-- he still had some issues with women, but not nearly so many as Chandler) with later books like The Galton Case or Black Money, which are, in my opinion, better books.No one writes Raymond Chandler like Raymond Chandler.
Macdonald pled guilty to aping the master, at least in his first Archer book (which has even more Chandlerian tropes, but succeeds in being less like Chandler, somehow), and it seems the influence was a deep and lasting one, even after the master had rather harsh words for his understudy.

I just discovered Macdonald this year. Like Raymond Chandler, he's one of the most literary mystery writers who excels at sharp dialogue. All his books are a great read.
Mid-century detective noir. MacDonald has an amazing turn of phrase. While it feels very different than The Drowning Pool, his observations of humanity and urban strife are spot on.
3* Black Money4* The Zebra-Striped Hearse3* The Instant Enemy3* The Way Some People Die
This is the third novel in Ross Macdonald's Lew Archer series.
I have seen both "Lew Harper" movies starring Paul Newman and recommend them as examples of some strange paranoid Hollywood dream of the private detective.Unlike the later Archer titles which focus less on Archer and more on the people and places he encounters this book owes more to the influence of Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe.
It is a book chuck full of swine and very few traditionally "good" people - even the victims seen to have it coming to them in this outing.
really about as sad as you can get. everyone who inhabits this story is decaying from the inside out, rotten to the core. there are a couple people on the fringes who probably have some happiness in their futures (hippy, kimono-wearing marjorie), but not archer, who's probably going to keep saving all the kids on heroin who break his heart, while he keeps chasing the Galleys and Tarantines and all the other doomed strivers in Los Angeles (the perfect setting for all these noir classics).
Ross Macdonald's The Way Some People Die was published in June 1951, which means it is exactly my age, well, I was born one month later.
The important things, like people's motives and behavior have not changed in the slightest in the last 65 years, nor has the drug traffic through Mexico-USA border diminished.Lew Archer is hired by a Mrs. Lawrence to find her daughter, Galatea (Galley), who has disappeared.
More people appear to be missing, several people die, and the drug traffic from Mexico plays the main role in the story.I do not much like the overly complicated plot: I have never really gotten interested in it.
A Twisted California StoryArcher continues to be the first person story teller in another twisted California murder mystery. Another fun Ross MacDonald rea.
Esta es hasta el momento la MEJOR novela que he leído de Ross Macdonald con una trama compacta y nada predecible, con personajes bien construidos y profundos acorralados en sus propias tragedias y con esa prosa tan descriptiva y cuidada de la que hace gala siempre Macdonald en sus historias.Y aunque Archer tiende a ser más reflexivo que irónico, he aquí una píldora de ironía de un personaje que destaca sobre todo por su parquedad y serenidad:"¿Qué clase de mujer cree que soy?" El rostro había perdido su impasividad y buscaba una expresión que pudiera conmoverme.Toqué al hombre muerto con la punta del zapato.
"Acabo de ver¬la descargar seis balas 45 sobre un hombre que se estaba muriendo de pie.
This title falls a little short of the masterpiece standard but is still very, very good.The thing that shaves off that fifth star and masterpiece mantel is the conventional nature of the piece.
His stories are family dramas containing realistically flawed people doing bad things for what seem to them to be good reasons.
And like with most of his works I remember those places and people even now (I am on my third book since).Still one of my top five authors and I can not see that changing any time soon.
