https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7054123-the-poisoner-s-handbook
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Combine prohibition, bootleggers, and poison. Mix and pour. Drink at your own risk. The Poisoner's Handbook is a murderous romp through Jazz Age New York and an enthralling look at the birth of forensic medicine, developed in response to the growing number of poisons in illegal alcohol, common household products, and in the hands of calculating murderers using toxic substances to their nefarious advantage.H
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
  Combine prohibition, bootleggers, and poison. Mix and pour. Drink at your own risk. The Poisoner's Handbook is a murderous romp through Jazz Age New York and an enthralling look at the birth of forensic medicine, developed in response to the growing number of poisons in illegal alcohol, common household products, and in the hands of calculating murderers using toxic substances to their nefarious advantage.Highly recommend this thoroughly researched work of non-fiction to chemistry fanatics and science/history buffs.
But the full title is The Poisoner’s Handbook: Murder and the Birth of Forensic Medicine in Jazz Age New York.
But then you see that the whole thing is actually The Devil and the White City: Murder, Magic and Madness at the Fair that Changed America which makes you feel like you just got eye strain so you drop the book and stagger out of Barnes & Noble to go get a beer.
It tells the story of how two men, Charles Norris and Alexander Gettler, worked tirelessly to bring scientific methods to the New York City coroner’s office and laid the groundwork for much of modern forensics.
Unfortunately, awkward organization and writing has me wondering if it was laced with wood alcohol.Divided into chapters on early 1900 poisons, it roughly covers the birth of forensic medicine in New York City under one of the more motivated chief examiners, Charles Norris, and a talented chemist Alexander Gettler.
The publisher was misleading with the subtitle; I suppose The Emerging Disciplines of Medical Examiners and Toxicology in Context of Courtrooms and Politics During Prohibition in New York would not have been nearly so sexy a description as "a fascinating Jazz Age tale of chemistry and detection, poison and murder." Alas, there is no jazz to speak of.
Chapters include chloroform, wood alcohol (an inadvertent poison resulting from Prohibition), cyanide, arsenic, mercury, carbon monoxide methyl alcohol, radium, and ethyl alcohol.
: Estimation of the Median Lethal Dose for Some Common Neurotoxins Under Severe Budgetary ConstraintsMoonshine and Giblets : Prohibition Era Recipes for Pickling Organ Meats God-Awful Title : A Pretty Decent Book About the Origins of Forensic ScienceThough Deborah Blum is a skillful and engaging writer, this book never quite soared for me.
The organization of chapters by compound is a little artificial, but works reasonably well.
But these are minor quibbles - this is a well-researched, interesting book.
Despite the author's skill, this book will never match my own little project in the works.
Accidental deaths due to the utter lack of regulation of drugs, household chemicals, and cosmetics!The book has an interestingly layered organization.
Each chapter is titled for the poison/chemical whose investigation is woven the most centrally through that section; however, the book is also a chronological biography of Charles Norris and Alexander Gettler, the scientists who put science at the center of death investigations in New York.
Deborah Blum uses individual case studies -- some solved, some not -- to highlight the development of various detection techniques, Norris and Gettler's efforts to elevate the status of good science in the courtroom, and even the everyday dangers of the era.Highly recommended for anyone who enjoys science, history, and forensics.
This book is mainly about two men; Charles Norris, the chief medical examiner of New York City, and Alexander Gettler, the chief toxicologist.
Basically, the book is a collection of short stories of various mysteries that these men, and the medical departments they served, helped to solve in the early twentieth century.
But the state-required autopsies were not performed in a medical school, as required by law, so the doctors were arrested and charged with felonies!It was also interesting how, during the Prohibition, hundreds of people died in New York City each year because they were poisoned by illegal alcohol.
Yes, it's a 4 star read and I didn't finish it.
The fault is mine, in that I am truly not a reader dedicated to reading non-fiction works start to finish.
That makes it easy for readers like me to feel no guilt if they put it down and don't pick it up again for several months.
It also means that readers whose attention span exceeds mine (the vast majority of the educated universe) can look forward to a delightful read, capable of being finished in a weekend if murder by poison is as interesting to you as it is to me.
I was really excited for this book and I was a little let down. It was very interesting, but so dry in parts that I had to set it down. The story was broke up in strange chunks with the ongoing problems of prohibition running throughout. There was a lot of information about forensic scientist and medical examiners fighting for budgets and prestige. I am glad I read it, it I wouldn't read it again.
more of my chattiness about this book  here if you so desire. One day I left this book downstairs in the kitchen right next to the coffee maker intending to take it upstairs later, and the next thing I knew there's a post on my husband's facebook page with a photo of this book that reads as follows:"Hmmmmm, first she has me get more life insurance - then I see this book. #eatouttonight?"I didn't really ask for more life insurance, but his post is kind of spot on regarding this book -- one of the
#‎eatouttonight‬?"I didn't really ask for more life insurance, but his post is kind of spot on regarding this book -- one of the main points in Blum's study is that for a very long time, people who were so inclined could get away with murder when it came to poisoning.
I enjoyed The Poisoner's Handbook -- one thing it did for me was that it hit home that in some ways a lot has changed (and happily so) since that time but in others, a lot remains the same.
Where I got the book: purchased at Borders ALAS POOR BORDERS.This short (278 pages of text) nonfic covers the development of forensic toxicology in New York from 1915 to 1936 (with a little look before and after) against the background of Prohibition, which led to an epidemic of self-poisoning as people drank, seriously, ANYTHING because they couldn't get regular alcohol.
Lots of anecdotes of real crime, a little bit of science and a few brisk character sketches add up to an entertaining read.
Although I suspect this is not the best book on poisoning out there, it's worth reading for a little inspiration.NO, not inspiration to poison people.
Though the author's intent is clearly to argue against prohibition in the US, the main take-away for me is that people are IDIOTS and love filling their bodies with things they know are poisonous and will kill them.
actively poisoned liquor in the hopes of enforcing prohibition; in such an age, NO-ONE ever suggested that perhaps the people's willingness to risk blindness, insanity and death by drinking, rubbing into their skin, or smoking/chewing substances they KNEW were deadly was something that should be encouraged.
While this book is ostensibly about poisons, it is also very much the story of the development of forensic toxicology and its pioneers Charles Norris and Alexander Gettler.
In a time when cause of death was often determined by a politically appointed coroner with little or no medical or scientific training, the appointment of Norris as Chief Medical Examiner of the city of New York was a game changer.
Norris, along with his chief toxicologist Gettler, would introduce scientific methods into determining cause of death and pioneer forensic methods to determine the presence of poisons in a body.
I strongly recommend The Poisoner's Handbook: Murder and the Birth of Forensic Medicine in Jazz Age New York by Deborah Blum.
It is an extremely well-written and engrossing account of New York City during the Prohibition years as well as a history of the development of forensic medicine, particularly toxicology.
There are shocking revelations of government activities in support of prohibition (such as the deliberate poisoning of available sources of liquor with the well-foreseen consequences of many additional deaths from alcohol poisoning), the political maneuverings of the time, the life of the average citizen in New York City (which I'll admit is of particular interest to me as an NYC resident!) and, well, yes, some pretty shocking crimes.So, ok, there is some reportage of lurid crimes which were pretty interesting as well.Something for pretty much everyone put together in a terrific package.
Good the second time through. Though the narrator sounded like Arnold Schwarzenegger when she used an Austrian accent and Pepe le Pew when she used a French accent. It's nonfic, sweetcheeks, it's okay to talk like a 'Murican. A 'Murican who can enunciate, anyway.
Trigger warnings: death, murder, suicide, execution, death of a child, graphic medical procedures, animal experimentation.4.5 stars.
This was absolutely phenomenal.
Each chapter deals with a different poison prevalent in the 1920s, including carbon monoxide, wood alcohol, and radium.
It was so compelling and well written, the perfect mix of forensics and history.
I'm knocking off half a star simply because I could NOT deal with the number of times it was like "They needed to test their theory so they went to the pound and got a bunch of dogs......." (seriously - if animal cruelty is a trigger for you?
So not only do we get forensic history and many many criminal cases to read about, we examine prohibition and the Great Depression as well and the vehicle to do so was as the title suggests, poison.
Each poison gets its own chapter, its own criminal cases and how forensic chemistry got started (much of which was in fact created by or enhanced by Gettler and Norris).
This is an excellent book for people interested in jazz age history, forensic medicine and poisons (none of which would help you much today since they’re all easily detectible).
The Poisoner's Handbook is absolutely fascinating and not for the faint of heart. It follows the careers of Charles Norris, an NYC medical examiner, and Alexander Gettler, a toxicologist, who modernized and completely changed the game when it comes to forensic toxicology from about 1918-1936. Their work helped get the innocent out of murder charges and convict the guilty. One of the more well known cases today that they worked on was the Snyder-Gray case which inspired both The Postman Always Rings Twice and Double Indemnity.
Feh. In the afterward, the author thanks a whole bunch of people for helping her with the technical aspects of the chemistry.
And I was like "ahaha what technical aspects?
And this is not science writing.
It's history with a sprinkle of description using science words on top, with no exploration of how or why.The book could have been somewhat redeemed with interesting historical content, given that's what it was really doing.
Oh, and a whole bunch of stuff about the homebrewed poisons of the prohibition era, when a glass of moonshine actually could kill you.
There are many kinds of poisons, but back in the early 20th century, there wasn't much knowledge about them.
Often it was the case that a substance wasn't even known to be poisonous.
It is written with a deceptively breezy style: there's a fair amount of science hiding in there but you barely notice it because the book is heavily laced with tales of nefarious doings and dastardly crimes, as well as tragic stories of ignorance leading to unexpected deaths.
Cyanide, mercury, carbon monoxide poisoning -- they all were deadly compounds attached to a roster of fascinating stories.
When two men - Carles Norris and Alexander Gettler, - took it upon themselves to revolutionize toxicology science and the methods used by medical examiners, murder by poison ran rampant in New York City.
Often, medical examiners weren't even real physicians, but incompetent officials, guessing the cause of death and taking bribes to cover up crimes.
Norris and Gettler introduced structure into the pathology office, argued with the Mayor's Office for adequate budget, used multiple control experiments to offer bulletproof evidence, and contributed personal time and finances to keep their department out of mediocrity.
Organized by poison (chloroform, wood alcohol, cyanides, arsenic, etc.) and chronologically (1915, 1918-19, 1920-22, 1922-23, etc.), the book opens a window onto the exploitation of chemicals for lethal ends and the development of forensic techniques specifically to discover and prove their use in any number of nefarious crimes.
Science-nerdy, Sheldon-types may delight in sneering at the lack of science as hard as diamonds, but die-hard devotees of true crime will likely learn a lot of the how-to-do-it and why-it-works variety as the bodies continue to pile up over the years.
Interestingly enough, those guilty of notably criminal behavior include local and national politicians, as well as heartless True Believers of the early-20th-century culture wars.
This was a book challenge read or I probably would have never picked it up. So, I'm happy to say that I really enjoyed this....A LOT. I found the history fascinating. The author did a great job in detailing the information so it didn't sound like a wikipedia report. It amazes me how easy it was to poison people to get rid of them back in the day and how far research has come in determining certain causes of death regarding poison. I understand that research was important, but the dog experiments hurt my heart.
Audio #151
Book on CD read by Coleen Marlo.The subtitle describes the book perfectly: Murder and the Birth of Forensic Medicine in Jazz Age New York.
With the help of toxicologist Alexander Gettler, Norris quickly set about making “cause of death” dependent on sound scientific studies, and put many a poisoner out of commission.
Blum brings the Jazz-Age New York to life – teeming slums, smoky speakeasies, and noisy streets.
The text version does include about 20 pages of notes and bibliography which are not read on the audio.
The first time I read a book about forensic science I was in 7th grade.
As the "wettest city in America," New York gave Norris and Gettler much support for their position that Prohibition not only was not creating abstinence in people, but making them drink harder and more dangerous liquor.
Instead, it only made illegal alcohol more treacherous.The advent of the automobile age, along with illuminating gas used to light the many tenements of New York, also created a huge surge in carbon monoxide deaths.Between the gripping yarns of poisoners caught and only sometimes convicted, and these broader social issues, Blum has crafted a book that teaches us a lot about forensic medicine and organic chemistry without once sounding like a textbook or treatise.
Sure it can, if you're morbid like me.Each chapter of Blum's book is about a different kind of poison.
You learn how each poison kills, what the symptoms are, and what your body looks like on the inside after you're killed by it.
Phew!It sounds like a lot for such a relatively short book, but it seems to fit together nicely and it's all pretty interesting.
My only complaint is that I would have liked to read about MORE poisoning cases, but I'm just morbid like that.If you like Mary Roach or non-fiction books about disease or murder, you'll probably like this one.
With the appointment of Charles Norris as chief medical examiner in 1918, New York City for the first time had someone with the skills and determination to track down poisoners and murderers, establishing forensic science along the way.
Along with toxicologist Alexander Gettler, Norris took on not only private murderers but big business and even the U.S. Government.
I actually learned something about chemistry and there’s enough murder and bloodshed to satisfy any true crime buff.
A well-researched, well-documented, and very well-written tale of chemical mysteries in early twentieth century New York. Dr. Charles Norris, the chief medical examiner of NYC, and his devoted toxicologist, Dr. Alexander Gettler, revolutionized New York's justice system by forcing it to pay attention to scientific evidence. Their painstaking, meticulous, and yet audacious work into chemicals' interactions with mammals helped catch and convict murderers. This isn't all forensic pathology and chemistry, though--there's a great deal of history, all woven together with the anecodotal tales of murderers, bootleggers, and accidental poisoners that Norris & Gettler encountered.
A fascinating history about the development of forensic medicine during the prohibition era. This book also looked at government involvement to keep the public safe (or endanger re: prohibition). If you are a CSI fan this book is for you!
Interesting chemistry but even more fascinating history of the birth of forensic toxicology and the pioneers who fought graft and ignorance to ensure knowledge would prevail. I finished this book with a hefty respect for the people who dedicated their lives to dispelling ignorance (and catching murderers along the way!).
