https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114188.Holding_the_Dream
Nora at her best!! But, then when isn't she?  This is the second book in the trilogy and our over all story line is moving along wonderfully! I'm so thankful I didn't have to wait months between books.  Kate has discovered a secret about her father that hits her at a low time in her life. It hits her physically, emotionally and professionally. But, luckily she meets Byron. He is *romantic sigh* so nice.  This is a wonderful book! But, of course, It's Nora. 😊❤️
So I was super excited to get a copy of this from Flannery when I was visiting this week.
Kate is a super ambitious accountant, with all the stress and anxiety of a person who keeps all her emotions locked up.
Byron, despite his unfortunate name, is a perfect foil for all of Kate's personality issues - just as she is perfect for him (of course!).
Kate goes through a personal and professional crisis in this book, and her relationship with Byron is shaped by their responses to these tumultuous events, with the help of her supportive and hilarious extended family.
And no one is more surprise than Kate herself to also find comfort in Byron De Witt's arms; Templeton latest manager.
Could be because at first, Kate and Byron was both more brainy characters (nothing wrong with that but I prefer when the MC have opposite personality traits), but it's also for the fact they didn't have Josh and Margo's history nor did I felt the same potent sexual tension between them as between Laura and Michael.
Basically all of the below still applies; don't remember if I noted the humor last time as much as this, because some of the exchanges, especially that Kate has at the end when she's freaking out—so hysterical!!
And is always a nice change when it's the hero who is in for the long haul and upfront about his feelings, as opposed to being a commitment-phobe; haven't read Roberts in a while, but if I remember correctly, that is more common with her heroes.
I know this is the 2nd in a trilogy and we see them again in Laura's book, but still ...______________(4.5 stars) Another great Nora Roberts book!
Great book; definite reread.
No me gustó para nada este libro. Me costó mucho terminarlo, lo terminé por mi obstinación d no dejar libros empezados. Una trama sin demasiado argumento, rebuscada, personajes poco interesantes. Da la sensación que se escribió para completar la trilogía como de lugar sin importar la calidad. Lo lamento porque me gusta mucho Nora Roberts, pero este libro no me gustó.
3 stars.This was enjoyable, but I did find Kate, who was supposed to be logical and practical, a bit too neurotic. Except for the "Southern" upbringing, I thought Byron was almost a carbon copy of Josh from the previous book. Looking forward to Laura's book, I can't remember what happened, so it's going to be a surprise!
Kate Powell é a personagem com que mais de identifiquei até agora. O seu romance com Byron DeWitt é extremamente improvável e, ao mesmo tempo, são dos casais com mais química que encontrei na literatura. Adoro!
Unlike Margo's story, Kate's was such a fresh breath of air!In the second book of the Dream Trilogy, Kate Powell, Laura's cousin and the practical one of the trio, is having some health issues.
Now that's the kind of female lead I can totally relate to in a book!Next to her, Byron was the perfect man to stand and thrive - seriously!
Not only that, but he was also man enough to let Kate take the reins when he saw it worked out better, and yet go all "caveman" on her when she crossed the line.
You feel the love and loyalty between them as strongly as they weather yet another obstacle in their lives.Byron de Witt, sexy gorgeous and fabulous, is now working for the Templeton’s looking after their hotels in California.
The character development is really great – these are people that have become your friends, with real obstacles that have you rooting for them.I loved Kate’s story and I am feeling kind of sad that the next book, which will be about Laura, will be the time to say goodbye to these friends.
Even though Margo (heroine from the first book) was selfish and annoying at times - I liked her much more than Kate.
Kate seemed like a TSTL (too-stupid-to-live) heroine, that kept "cutting off her nose to spite her face".
I understand that there was that hospital trauma (that was kind of glossed-over), but had she acted like a normal, responsible adult, it needn't have come to her having to be rushed to the ER.
Since when did being a nice guy and a perfect gentleman become a bad thing???
So yeah - while i liked the book overall - Kate was one of the most annoying female characters EVER!
I really loved this book.
I made a similar decision in my own career, and I absolutely love the dynamic between Kate and Byron.
Me, personally, I would have liked to have seen a bit more of the investigation.
It seemed to wrap up a bit too quickly for me, but overall, I liked the book a lot.
I really hope there's a decent amount of Kate and Byron in the third book.
I see a lot of bickering and hot make-up sex in their future.
And for Kate's sake, a few cold, wet, puppy noses on Byron's butt to wake him up in the morning!
Quando um livro te interessa e tens mais algum tempinho disponível, acabasse num instante.E assim termino uma trilogia oferecida por uma amiga.Neste livro, retrata a história de Kate - a inteligente, pouco dada a modas e magricela do grupo. Para ela, só os números importam na vida, bem como a sua carreira até que o mundo dá voltas e voltas, e a vida dela muda radicalmente. Entre a razão e a emoção, Kate vai percebendo a sua mudança aceitando-se tal como é, bem como ao amor.
É a segunda vez que leio este livro, e continuo apaixonada pela história da Kate.
Even better than the first!! Love Kate!
Começar por baixo e subir na carreira até ser sócia da empresa.E trabalhou para isso.
E descobrir quem a incriminou?Este é o 2º volume da Trilogia do Sonho e tal como o primeiro volume é um livro que se lê bem, com uma história encantadora que nos transmite algumas lições de vida, nomeadamente Quando se fecha uma porta, abre-se uma janela, Às vezes as coisas têm de dar errado para poderem dar certo, Por muitos planos que façamos, nem sempre as coisas correm como planeado.
2) La pareja tenía buena química, pero poco sabemos de Byron, 3) Kate terminó involucionando.Me pareció sentir que Kate crecía como personaje, que iba a soltándose un poco más.
Ella es arisca de por sí, y en parte me identifico con su personaje en lo de que querer hacer todo sola, así que es casi divertido leerla.
Pero me cuesta mucho creerme su reacción terriblemente exagerada, hacia Byron, al final de la novela.
Me gusta la pareja y casi se gana el tag de perfect-couple pero me faltó desarrollo, la autora da cosas por enterada, saltea momentos interesantes y dar relevancia a otros que ni hacen a la historia ni a ellos mismos.
I haven't read Laura's story, the final one, but Byron De Witt from this book is the frontrunner for being my favorite guy of the series- the man, with the lavish descriptions of his physique, his taste in classic rock music played loud, his classic Mustang and Corvette, his love of cooking, running on the beach, sex- anywhere (fans self, hee!), all wrapped up in a Southern accent...I couldn't have ask for a guy more tailor-made!
It was fun to see the tightly wound Kate unravel in his hands, and I especially loved seeing her being taken care of and having someone look out for her the way Byron did.Plus, the store that the women own and run together is such an enjoyable element.

3.5 stars again.I liked this a lot, but at the same time I wanted to like the romance more than I did.
(He was not yet five years old when he named either of those stuffed dogs.)-The only thing more obvious than the fact that Thornhill was the embezzler was the fact that Kate had an ulcer.-I enjoyed seeing how well things are going for Josh and Margo (and now the baby)!-This book was published in 1997.
The Yankees-Braves thing would have been a pretty big deal then.
THESE ARE ROMANCE NOVELS.
THESE THINGS ARE SUPPOSED TO WORK OUT.And now I am going to bed.
Orphaned at the age of eight, Kate Powell was raised by the Templetons, and has vowed never to disappoint them.
To top it off, she's got Byron DeWitt, a new executive working for Templeton, breathing down her neck.Determined to ignore her problems, Kate throws herself into work at Pretenses, but it doesn't work quite the way she hopes.
With the police wanting to question her, her friends trying to mother her, and Byron wanting to take care of her, Kate can't find a moments peace.In order to get her life back on track, she'll have to face her demons - and open her heart.
I am not going to review every Nora Roberts book that I have read in the past because she is quite prolific and it would get redundant and I honestly cannot remember all the plots.
I think I have read every one of her books to date because despite the cheesy nature, the ending is always happy and the read is easy.
Frankly, I like these books and will continue to read each one that comes out.
I am going to post this same review for each of her books that I have read in the past.
The second book in the trilogy of the Tempelton Sisters. I think it was better than the first book. I liked the characters much better. Kate was an accountant and not a model so she was more connected to real life and Byron managed hotels. You got a glimpse of the working day of both persons, and I enjoyed that. I also liked the mystery story about Kates father and embezzlement. I wouldnt mind finding a gorgeous man that can cook and could be my personal trainer in his own gym. So I dont think I
The second book in the trilogy of the Tempelton Sisters.
I think it was better than the first book.
I liked the characters much better.
Kate was an accountant and not a model so she was more connected to real life and Byron managed hotels.
You got a glimpse of the working day of both persons, and I enjoyed that.
I also liked the mystery story about Kate´s father and embezzlement.
I wouldn´t mind finding a gorgeous man that can cook and could be my personal trainer in his own gym.
So I don´t think I will forget Byron for a while.
Oh, Nora Roberts, even though this book was published when I was in fourth grade, you can never fail to please. I did figure out the antagonist/villain right from the beginning, though, which doesn't usually happen with NR books (maybe she's just gotten better at writing intrigue in the last 15 years). The heroine was also a bit stubborn and argumentative for my taste, but Nora Roberts heroines do tend to run in that direction. And it's better by far than a heroine who's simply TSTL.
Depois de vermos ou melhor de lermos a história de Margo e que já está casada, segue-se agora a história de Kate. Kate é aquela prima séria e que sofre em silêncio devido a um segredo de família que acabou por descobrir, e entra em cena Bryon que acaba por lhe oferecer apoio emocional e fisíco, ui ui. Segundo volume da triologia do Sonho e que adorei!http://aviciadadoslivros.blogspot.pt/...
A very easy read. Overall it has a good plotline. As with the rest of the series I dislike the overall male dominance that occurs in this series as it seems to me the female lead often ends up following the male's wants. They put up a brief 'fight' but it appears more as lip service to make them appear to be strong characters rather than actual female strength.
Was in love with the 3 girls at once.. so it didnt stop me finishing the Daring to Dream. I like Margo's style and spirit.... but oh dear I dont want to finish the Holding the Dream,,,,, Kate's character is without sense, making this book a trash, absolutely boringggggg, from my own point of view.
I felt like one of the "sisters" as I read the second book in Nora Robert's trilogy. This is actually the second book in the series but it didn't detract from the plot by reading it out of order. I like how Nora Roberts developed the romantic side of the story amidst Kate's accusation of embezzlement that totally threw her for a loop.
Muito giro! A estória da teimosa Kate não desiludiu.Dentro do género romântico, Nora Roberts é sem dúvida das melhores. Os livros cheios de romance, personagem com humor e algum mistério à mistura. Este segundo volume da Trilogia Sonho tem tudo isso.
Thoroughly written to bring Kates story to fulfill the deepest crevices of your imagination. Nora Roberts brings the story to life start to finished. You feel yourself being absorbed into the storyline.
2.5-star read
