https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/194740.The_Setting_Sun
It’s through the sad eyes of Kazuko that Dazai takes the reader through a tragic yet beautiful (of course, filled with a tinge of heart-wrenching pain) sojourn of post–war tragedy wherein you could witness (with distressing pity) the pillars of aristocratic tradition being rooted up by turbulence brought up by need of the hour; Dazai narrates the suffering of Kazuko and her family through those times, the suffering which underlines destitute existence of the Japanese society during post war era.The book talks about eminent struggle of the protagonist- Kazuko- to come in terms with the rapid changing world wherein she’s not sure about her inclination whether it's about the aristocratic heritage or the new uprising world which is derived by convenience and desires.
Neyse geçelim bu faslı.Japon edebiyatının en kırılgan, ömrünü intihar çabalarına adamış ve en nihayetinde bu mutlu sona 39 yaşında ulaşmış Osuma Dazai’nin Batan Güneş’i kitabın sonundaki intihar mektubu ile kendi sonunu önceden belirlemesi ile son sözleri gibi yorumlansa da (ki doğrudur) Batan Güneş bunların ve bu anlamın çok ötesinde bir kitap.
Dazai kitap boyunca, varoluşsal ve politik konjonktürden doğan dertlerini drama kaçmadan ve belki derdin bütününü göremeyen okur için bile ince bir üslupla işliyor ta ki son sözlerine kadar.Anne soylu bir şekilde ölmek üzere, Naoji “soysuz “bir şekilde sonuna yelken açarken hikayeyi dinlediğimiz kızımız “ biz artık bu biçimde yaşayamayız” diyerek kaleme sarılır ve 7 yıl önce bir kez gördüğü bir adama, sevgili ya da metresi olma isteğini ileten 3 tane mektup yazar.
The hostilities of a transitional era, the vulnerabilities of human survival and the solemnity of self- esteem tapping the helplessness of civilization; like the emptiness of the sky just before the moon arises, the segregation emerging from the changing horizon is daunting and at times engulfed my own solitary apprehensions as I heard Dazai’s empathetic voice reciting the woes of a evolving Japan and its trapped people.
Analogous to his No Longer Human, Dazai trades on the similar grounds of desolation, humiliation, suicide , declining of traditional mores, rebellion to modernity, despair and individualistic war of morality and survival ; all of them being the ominous salient features of a post-war culture.
Osamu Dazai's The Setting Sun gave me a foriegn sort of feeling inside, like I felt different, not in a something is about to happen way, exactly.
A fantasy of victims, love, suicide, of living as dreaming in nightmares and hopes (childish hopes?
Revolution and love are in fact the best, most pleasurable things in the world, and we realize it is precisely because they are so good that the older and wiser heads have spitefully fobbed off on us their sour grapes of a lie.
Kazuko may have loved the victims but I love the revolution.
Through his own egocentricism and resolute determination to remain authentic, Dazai wrote a book that gets to the heart of a universal individualism, while at the same time advocating for transient beauties and dissolution and suicide.
So instead of looking toward thinkers for a way out, she looks toward nature, in the classical Japanese way, to the hope that autumn chrysanthemums will restore her sick mother (a mother who is sick and unnamed throughout the book, and so a symbolic stand-in for Japan itself).
But the flowers don't do it, for nothing but heroic love can restore whatever remains of meaning in a devastated world.
japonya'da savaş sonrası yaşanan toplumsal değişimin, soylu sınıfa ait bir ailenin parçalanışı üzerinden anlatıldığı mükemmel bir öykü olabilirmiş batan güneş.
ancak yazar öykü içinde intiharın bağlamını/gerekçelendirmesini kısa bir öyküde bir intihar mektubunun içine sıkıştırarak ve dağıttıkça dağıtarak öykünün minimal/kompakt yapısını bozmuş, güzelliğini gölgelemiş.intihar birkaç sayfa içinde hem ölme hakkı olarak, hem toplumsal/siyasal bağlamda, hem genel/geleneksel ahlak anlayışına ve hem de soylu sınıfın yok oluşuna (çelişki?) tepki olarak anlatılıyor/açıklanıyor.
yazar kendi düşüncelerini hikaye içinde intiharından önce üzerinde yeterince durmadığı kahramanlarından biriyle dile getiriyor ama ne bu kahraman ne de bu küçük kitap bu düşünceleri taşıyabiliyor.
I frankly still don't know what to make of any of it...So I can't even imagine what it must have been like for not just the Japanese but for everyone to go from a pre-nukes world to witnessing the near annihilation of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.This is the story of one aristocratic family in Japan in the years immediately following the war and their struggles to cope not only financially but intellectually, emotionally, morally and spiritually.
Dazai'den okuyucuya, kendi hayatı ile kurulacak bağ ile yumruk atan kısa bir roman! Japonya intihar eden yazarların diyarı. Nasıl ki Akutagava'nın bazı otobiyografik öykülerinde deliliğinin, sanrılarının korkunç yansımalarını görebiliyorsak, bu kitapta da Dazai'nin esrarkeşliğin koynunda, alkolikliğin pençesinde intiharın aklında nasıl şekillendiğini görebiliyoruz. Kitap boyunca Dazai kendi soyluluğuna tükürüyor, içine düştüğü ve kendi yaratmadığı durumların pençesinden nasıl kurtulamadığına küfürler savuruyor. Varoluşçuluk giysisi ne kadar Sarthe, Camus gibi yazarlara biçilmişse de bence en zengin sorgulamaları Dazai gibi yazarlar Doğu'da yapmışlar zaten. Ben çok etkilendim.
Japon hassasiyetini kurcalayan, Japonya'da soylu bir ailenin güçten düşüp yıkıma gidişini naif ve derinlemesine ele alan harika bir kitap.."Ben yemek odasına geçtim. Dayımın sevdiği hamur işini yapmaya koyuldum. Sonra Çin odasına dört kişilik yemek götürdüm. Dayım, doktor, Naoji ve yengem için. Dayımın Tokyo'dan getirdiği Maruneouehi Oteli sandviçlerini Anne'ye göstermek için onları yastığının kenarına koydum." Ölmek üzere olan annesini mutlu etmek için otuzuna merdiven dayamış, soyluluktan fakirliğe terfi bir kadının çocuksu naifliğinin ve anne sevgisinin tavan yaptığı bu noktada çarpıldım...
Dawno nie byłam z niczego tak dumna, jak z tego, co udało nam się w Tajfunach wydobyć z tego tekstu. Znam ten tekst już chyba na pamięć - i po japońsku i po polsku. Tak bardzo warto.Premiera w drugiej połowie stycznia.
The Setting Sun is similar, also a confession-style story told by Kazuko (and also her brother Naoji) who is struggling with an engulfing propensity to isolation.
But unlike Yozo who thinks family is a nonsensical entity, Kazuko and Naoji regard their family and its aristocratic status as a potential source of salvation, but the fragile familial tie breaks eventually and leaves them in total despair.
Reflection and introspective confession sucks one into the abyss of one's moral depravity independent of one's surrounding."Victims.
For Dazai, unlike Mishima or Kawabata, moral revolution itself already constitutes beauty, but what's more tragically beautiful is the unchanged water below the surface of revolution: one can call it depravity, or tenderness.
çokkk uzun zamandır okumak isteyip bulamadığım kitaptı. istediğim kadar varmış. sadelik ve derinliği etkileyici .
"Herhalde bir şeyden emin olunabilir: Insan, yaşamak için rol yapmak zorunda."Dazai'nin kalemi hakikaten enfes; sade fakat oldukça derin.Üzerine ne denir bilemiyorum.
Despite the absence of action  "The setting sun  is a quite interesting book which gives the reader an insight of Japanese culture in the post war era.
Here Dazai shows the struggles of an aristocratic japanese family.
He is straight forward and sometimes rather lyrical and always precise.
Given the fact that the book is slow paced the final chapters make up for it.
I fancy Osamu Dazai's prose, his views towards life and his autobiographical writing.
I liked Naoji and his letters made me love him more.
It's a book that will overwhelm you with so many feelings.
Beklemek. Hayatta sevinç, öfke, hüzün ve yüz çeşit duygu içindeyiz; ama bu duyguların tümü vaktimizin ancak yüzde birini oluşturur. Yüzde doksan dokuzu ise beklemekle geçer.

"เมืออาทิตยทีทอแสงเจิดจา กำลังจะสินแสงลง.."เรืองราวชีวิตของ "คาสุโกะ" หญิงสาวทีเคยมาจากตระกูลทีสูงสง กลับถูกพิษรายจากสงครามทำใหชีวิตของเธอตกตำลงจนสูดานมืด แตคาสุโกะยังคงมีจิตใจทีแนวแน และยังสูไมถอย เพราะเชือวาแมอาทิตยจะสินแสง แตใชวาจะสินหวังอันทีจริง เราเคยอานงานเขียนของดะไซ เรือง "สูญสินความเปนคน" จบไปเมือนานมาแลว ยังรูสึกถึงกลินอายความหยาบชาและเลวทรามของมนุษยในยุคภาวะสงครามเปนอยางดี มาเลมนีเราคิดวาคงไมตางกัน แตความจริงแลวไมเหมือนกันเลยสักนิดสำหรับเรา "อาทิตยสินแสง" ไมไดเปนหนังสือโศกนาฏกรรม ไมไ
"เมื่ออาทิตย์ที่ทอแสงเจิดจ้า กำลังจะสิ้นแสงลง.."เรื่องราวชีวิตของ "คาสุโกะ" หญิงสาวที่เคยมาจากตระกูลที่สูงส่ง กลับถูกพิษร้ายจากสงครามทำให้ชีวิตของเธอตกต่ำลงจนสู่ด้านมืด แต่คาสุโกะยังคงมีจิตใจที่แน่วแน่ และยังสู้ไม่ถอย เพราะเชื่อว่าแม้อาทิตย์จะสิ้นแสง แต่ใช่ว่าจะสิ้นหวังอันที่จริง เราเคยอ่านงานเขียนของดะไซ เรื่อง "สูญสิ้นความเป็นคน" จบไปเมื่อนานมาแล้ว ยังรู้สึกถึงกลิ่นอายความหยาบช้าและเลวทรามของมนุษย์ในยุคภาวะสงครามเป็นอย่างดี มาเล่มนี้เราคิดว่าคงไม่ต่างกัน แต่ความจริงแล้วไม่เหมือนกันเลยสักนิดสำหรับเรา "อาทิตย์สิ้นแสง" ไม่ได้เป็นหนังสือโศกนาฏกรรม ไม่ได้เล่าเรื่องราวของตัวละครที่บาดเจ็บเจียนตายจากการถูกความเป็นมนุษย์ตีกรอบและครอบงำ แต่เป็นเรื่องราวของหญิงสาวผู้สูงศักดิ์ที่พยายามทำทุกวิถีทางเพื่อเอาตัวรอดในสถานการณ์ที่เปลี่ยนไป จากคนที่เคยรุ่งโรจน์ ชีวิตกลับมาตกต่ำ มันฟังดูน่าหดหู่ แต่ตัวละครหลักอย่าง "คาสุโกะ" ไม่ได้หดหู่หรือจมกับความไม่จีรังของชีวิตนาน เธอกลับลุกขึ้นมาสู้ ในแบบวิธีที่บิดเบี้ยวของเธอ ที่ทำให้คนอ่านอย่างเราต้องอุทานว่า "อ้าวเห้ย! แบบนี้ก็ได้เหรอวะ" 55555555สรุปแล้ว.. เล่มนี้อ่านง่ายที่สุด เข้าใจที่สุด และมีความเป็นนิยายมากที่สุด ในบรรดางานเขียนของดะไซ โอซามุแล้วล่ะมั้ง ดะไซยังคงความเป็นดะไซเหมือนเดิม บรรยากาศเหงาๆ ชวนหดหู่ช่วงสงครามที่กดดันและบีบคั้นให้ตัวละครต้องทำอะไรที่ผิดแปลกออกไปจากศีลธรรมอันดี ตัวละครทุกตัวก็มีเหตุผลของมัน แต่จะบิดเบี้ยวหรือผิดเพี้ยนมากแค่ไหน ก็ขึ้นอยู่กับว่าเรายอมรับความเป็นตัวตนของพวกเขาได้มั้ย และสุดท้ายนี้ แม้คาสุโกะจะคิดหรือจะตัดสินใจอะไรประหลาดๆ ออกไปบ้าง แต่นางก็เป็นตัวละครตัวหนึ่งที่สู้ไม่ถอยเหมือนกัน______________________________สามารถติดตามอีกช่องทางการรีวิวของเราและเพื่อนๆ ได้ที่ แฟนเพจ Rook a Bead
Deary me, isn't it tough to be an aristocrat with no money and no other skills in postwar Japan.2.
Deary me, isn't it tough to be an artist with no money and no other skills in postwar Japan.3.
Deary me, isn't it tough to be a novelist with no money and no other skills in postwar Japan.I could go on, and it is entirely possible I missed the point, but you perhaps see my petit-bourgeois biases coming through.
Dazai'nin sorunlu aile ilişkileri ve asalet kompleksinin etkisi altında yazılmış bir metin olarak düşündüm. Temel birçok konu ile ilgili mesajlar içeriyor fakat biraz dağınık.
(3.75*) A bit quirky but overall an enjoyable read about the decline of aristocracy in Japan after the war.
it is no longer a very revolutionary act.
Death is not a very revolutionary act.
Even if they ultimately prove impossible to sustain.Of course, this is the problem with a lot (not all, but still a lot...) of the modernist literature I am reading -- a certain moral puerility.
In philosophy, almost nothing will likely last of the past 65 years, apart from Quine -- and possibly nothing from the last 100 years -- Though such sweeping statements will always prove false, I guess....And I haven't read much in epistemology.The breakthroughs in science will last...
In the same fashion as his predecessors, Natsume Soseki (Kokoro) and Tanizaki Junichiro (Naomi), Dazai provides an insightful historical account in The Setting Sun, as much as he draws a story of intense emotional appeal.
All three of these prominent novelists have written, so deftly, about a Japan in a period of great uncertainty amid rapid change.
Dazai's story is set in post-war Japan and recounts the fall of an aristocratic family.This upper-class family loses everything they possess; all their remaining wealth disappears, and with it their status and privilege too.
Through the narrator and heroine, Kazuko, and her brother Naoji, Dazai takes us through a poignant series of tragic occurrences.
Yazarın otobiyografisi olarak değerlendiriyorum. İntiharından önce yaşadığı fırtınalı düşünce dünyasını ve ruh halini soylu bir Japon ailesi üzerinden anlatıyor. Düşüncelerini bazen ablanın (anlatıcı) bazen de erkek kardeşin kaleminden çıkan mektuplarla anlatıyor. Jaguar Yayınlarının kardeş kuruluşu Olvido yayınlarından.
senenin son kitabı. icindeki mektuplara bayildim. 3/5
I found reading “The Setting Sun” by Osamu Dazai a bit disappointing, especially in its second half around one fourth, since its readers have been overwhelmed by his seemingly destructive obsession.
Second, I liked this dialog between Mother and Kazuko, the lady protagonist because of its masterly-written sentences and, I think, his readers would find it hard not to be emotionally moved and thus cannot help weeping in sympathy: … “Really?
Finally, this novel is readable in its first three fourths but, after that, its readers should read it wisely and leave it at that.
Naoji ise "yazarın kendisini kurguya dahil ettiği," uyuşturucu ve alkol bağımlısı, geleneği, soyluluğu sorgulayan bi' adam.Eski Japonya'yı simgeleyen babanın ölümü ve Naoji'nin Pasifikte asker olarak orduya alınmasıyla başlayan ve ailenin savaş öncesi soyluluğun simgesi olan büyük ve lüks evlerinden Çin mimarisinin egemen olduğu bi' dağ evine taşınmasıyla toplumsal çözülmenin anlatıldığı ve askerden dönen Naoji'nin varoluşçu bunalımlarına dayanamayıp -belki de ancak yazar Dazai'nin yazabileceği- ablası Kazuko'ya yazdığı duygu yüklü mektupla intihar ettiği bi' çöküşün romanı.
Apparently, Dazai was a tragic figure - he became addicted to morphine and made several suicide attempts before he succeeded in 1948.
We encounter the family's reduction in means, and their attempts to fit into a rural village, where they moved after they lost the mansion.
The defeat of Japan is never explicitly explored, only the effects on the people.
The reader - or at least THIS reader - will see some of the trials and humiliations of this family as simply annoying.
But the details of the people and their lives are compelling.
I will try to find more of Dazai!
เรืองราวหลังไฟสงครามของดะไซ โอซามุ ยังฉายภาพเขมขนเชนเคยแตเลมนีรูสึกวาไปไมสุด เพราะสิงทีบีบคันใหตัวละครซวยไมไดเกิดจากการตัดสินใจของตัวละครแตเปนความระยำตำบอนของบริบท ทำใหนางเอกเปนแคผูถูกกระทำเสียมากกวา ในขณะทีเลมอืนอยางสูญสินความเปนคน หรือเมียชายชัว จะใหภาพกึงๆ ระหวางผลพวงของการกระทำตัวละครกับบริบททีเลวรายทีนำไปสูบทสรุปทีนาเศราอยางไรกดี ในแงของการฉายภาพผลพวงของสงครามตอผูหญิง ดะไซยังฉายภาพไดอยางงดงามและแจมชัดเชนเคย
เรื่องราวหลังไฟสงครามของดะไซ โอซามุ ยังฉายภาพเข้มข้นเช่นเคยแต่เล่มนี้รู้สึกว่าไปไม่สุด เพราะสิ่งที่บีบคั้นให้ตัวละครซวยไม่ได้เกิดจากการตัดสินใจของตัวละครแต่เป็นความระยำตำบอนของบริบท ทำให้นางเอกเป็นแค่ผู้ถูกกระทำเสียมากกว่า ในขณะที่เล่มอื่นอย่างสูญสิ้นความเป็นคน หรือเมียชายชั่ว จะให้ภาพกึ่งๆ ระหว่างผลพวงของการกระทำตัวละครกับบริบทที่เลวร้ายที่นำไปสู่บทสรุปที่น่าเศร้าอย่างไรก็ดี ในแง่ของการฉายภาพผลพวงของสงครามต่อผู้หญิง ดะไซยังฉายภาพได้อย่างงดงามและแจ่มชัดเช่นเคย
This piece of Dazai's in particular tackles illness, addiction, and suicide--all topics not particularly far from home, especially the latter of the three.
Dazai's work contains a large amount of poetic symbolism in a rather general sense, and should be paid close attention to, to fully grasp the meaning of his writing--in my opinion, of course.(view spoiler)[ The main character, Kazuko, takes us through her living after her father's passing, living with her solemn and eventually ill mother.
Và tất nhiên là khác hẳn hẳn so với các tác phẩm văn học Nhật đương đại khác dù theo lời bình của nhà văn Kakuta Mitsuyo ở cuối sách thì văn phong của nó cấp tiến chẳng thua gì văn học thời nay cả (vì không tiếp cận được ngôn ngữ gốc nên chỉ có thể tin lời bà).Trong khi ở Thất lạc cõi người, Dazai đã thể hiện những diện mạo khá rõ ràng của một bệnh nhân tâm thần, một con nghiện hết thuốc chữa, một thanh niên suy đồi hết đường cải tạo...
