https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18057.A_Damsel_in_Distress
Bevan goes to Belpher Castle to find her and win her heart, resulting in the usual Wodehouse tale of mistaken identity and elaborate schemes.A Damsel in Distress is the usual hilarious Wodehouse tale with some added quirks.
The cast at Belpher Castle very much resembles the crew at Blandings and I forgot I wasn't reading a Blandings tale on several occasions.
Maybe he felt Belpher was unusable at the end of this story.The story has some unexpected turns, like the fate of Lord Marshemorton.
While A Damsel in Distress isn't my favorite Wodehouse, it's still smashing.
Daffy mishaps abound as a golfing enthusiast (Wodehouse does love his golf!) and composer is set upon by a young woman in need and, true to form, the author has his characters dangling from the ends of mistaken identity wires. This was one of Wodehouse's early works and it's not bad, though not his best. The writer was still honing his craft. The plot, the characters, and the soup they find themselves in will all become richer in later books. However, A Damsel in Distress is still a worthy read if you're a fan of his Jeeves & Wooster line.
Flighty aristocratic girls in love with unsuitable men.
Vapid and bullied elderly aristocrats.
And untitled young-men-about-town with hearts of gold, always ready to rescue damsels in distress.In short, vintage Wodehouse.There is a director in Malayalam movies who makes situational comedies which are strikingly similar in theme and approach, but who provides hits on a regular basis despite the sameness.
Sambar is popular because of its predictability of taste, not in spite of it.I feel it is the same with Wodehouse novels.
We meet the same characters again and again in the same situations, yet we love it.
My son has long sung the praises of P.G. Wodehouse and encouraged me to read more of him.
Wodehouse is charming, witty, and an absolute master of description.
Take him for all in all he looked like a bit of bad news.Ah, so lovely, and so very British.Because his books are so determinedly lighthearted, it is easy to dismiss Wodehouse as merely a comic writer.
But this is to entirely ignore the fact that he is a master of language and plotting, and takes one from an absurdity to a silliness with adroitness and skill.
A few days ago, after an hour or so of attentional drifting, puttering here and there and looking for something to do, I found a P.G. Wodehouse free novel on iBooks and have been content ever since.
When all is lost, when one is a bit in the dumps and at loose ends, when nothing seems to offer spice to life and verve to existence, Wodehouse can usually come to the rescue.
And once again he has, this time with his novel, A Damsel in Distress.
Don’t take my word for it; pick up almost any of his dozens of novels and see for yourself.
Perfect pick-me-up, feel good romp through the English summertime.
The book has aged like fine champagne, and Wodehouse golfing similes and general joy in the use of English language provide numerous quote worthy material.
The impossible had happened; Heaven had sent him an adventure, and he didn't care if it snowed."I understand there's a film with Fred Astaire based on the book, and that the author was directly involved in the project, so I guess I'll check it out.Better still, I'll go for a stroll in the summer sunshine and leave you with the words of the master:"Mustn't waste life's springtime sitting here talking to you.

I recently described to a friend as "Downton Abbey ...
if Downton Abbey were a comedy." Lots of fun!2015:It’s really impossible for me to analyze and critique anything by P.G. Wodehouse.
All I can say is that his writing is fantastic and share a favorite scene.”The floor was crowded with all that was best and noblest in the county; so that a half-brick, hurled at any given moment, must infallibly have spilt blue blood.
Not my favorite Wodehouse. The "damsel" in question does not have much of a personality. I do not know why the hero makes all the effort to win her affection, but it does not matter. She's very pretty, I suppose. But she's prejudiced against fat people. Also, she drags other people into her own problems, but because she's pretty, the poor saps fall in love with her.However, this book did tell a joke that made me laugh!A woman says to her maid, "Do you know anything of my husband's whereabouts?"The maid replies, "They're at the wash."Ha!
Such a fun and charming book! P. G. Wodehouse has a funny, witty style of writing. His characters are wonderfully detailed, and he manages this detail in only a few paragraphs. A great blend of comedy and real people. The book itself is set in London and a nearby castle with neighboring town. Several characters, each with a unique charm that you can't help falling in love with... I'd say more about them, but it would give away too much.Highly recommended!:)
Reading P.G. Wodehouse is like eating bread and jam: I always know what I am getting and I am always pleased.
Hence this was no exception but what a brilliantly amazing joy ride of a love story this was, where Mr. A is in love with Ms B, whereas Ms B is in love with Mr. C and on top of that Mr. C is in love with Ms. D and Ms. D has someone else on her list and that someone else turns out to be a solid no go yet by the time it ends, almost everyone is as happy as you can expect them to be, they all laugh their ways back to their places and the reader is in a completely happy trance :) back to picking up another disaster but before that I ordered another PGW ;) just to be on the safer side.
An amusing story but Davidson doesn't make the most of it in his narration.
http://bettie.booklikes.com/blog
A romantic comedy (of errors) as only Wodehouse could.
If you're a fan of Wodehouse, enjoy this delightful mix of the satirical and sincere, with a charming American hero who does his best to rival novel heroes of the past, a slightly silly English lady, an adorably witless rich gentleman named Reggie, and a clever bu impudent age boy.
If you're a fan of Wodehouse, enjoy this longer jaunt into his world - especially the scene where the heroine jumps into a stranger's cab, and the meeting at Ye Cosy Nook, the depressing cafe of the "distressed gentlewomen" in which one simply assumes there is "a body upstairs." If you've not read him, this is a great place to begin.
I've read most of Wodehouse's books.
The main character, George Bevan, has a kind of appealing Everyman quality, regardless of his fortune and accomplishments.
He makes for an immensely satisfying main character.
The book is also chock-full of amazing side characters: the Earl, Maude's fathead brother, Alfred the page, the butler, etc.
The further one reads, the richer they become and the more they add to the main plot.Damsel is one of those books that you can read multiple times.
Wodehouse's humor, while over the top in many ways, is definitely a lot drier than the American counterparts.
Mildly amusing but the author spends too much time trying to be clever, at the expense of the story. I found the characters stylised and the plot (if you can call it that) very shallow. I think this author must be an acquired taste - however, not to my palate.
I believe it was a biographer, Dick Ellboy, who proved Plum wrote this book on foolscap with an HB pencil while staying at Pedant Hall, Upper Tedium, Shrops.
Psmith and Jeeves were already on the bookstore shelves, and Ukridge, Blandings Castle, Mr. Mulliner and many more were set to come from the comic master.
Here, the dialog is lucid and entertaining, the descriptions are fresh, always fresh - Wodehouse surely loved life in all its forms to be able to see the firm and quirky beauty in every detail he turned his attention to, and in this book every detail at Belpher Castle and its environs glimmer with charm.
One reason for this is because Wodehouse constructed entertainment - it does not challenge, confound, require explication or reward critical or symbolic interpretation.
This is perhaps because Wodehouse set all the challenges for himself.
George rises to the occasion with aplomb, and ends up captivated by the girl, who soon disappears.
But he manages to discover who she is, and rents a cottage in the neighbourhood of her home...Cue typical Wodehouse misunderstandings and confusion as George arrives, and is mistaken for someone else.
There are one or two unexpected developments in this book, but with Wodehouse it’s not the plot that matters so much as the mixture of people and the surreal situations which, in his hands, seem all-too-real.
However the ending was most satisfactory, even if there was a bit of political incorrectness along the way.
If you like PG Wodehouse books generally, you will like this one as well. A simple story about a girl Maud who dashes into George coincidentally. After that there is the usual confessions you can expect - she wants to meet Geoffrey, her relatives think she loves George. As with all PG Wodehouse books, the confusion clear up to lead to a happy ending!
“The course of love never did run smooth,” or so Willie told us circa 1595.
A DAMSEL IN DISTRESS is longer than most of Wodehouse’s novels, and has a temporary lapse into something like seriousness, but it ends, as all of PGW’s stories do, with all loose ends tied up and most of the characters feeling happy.
This book, in which our deluded George thinks a young beauty is in love with him, has a corker of an ending.
As delightful as a cold sparkling wine on a hot summer’s day.
Much sparkling wine is consumed in these 255 pages.
Suffice to say, in spite of the fact that I've had this on my shelves since I was a teenager, I've only just read it for the first time.
There are plenty of wonderful lines, and total absurdities, and some delightful characters, but the thing that's striking is the wonderfully controlled plot which roles along with ease as if Wodehouse knows exactly where he's going at all times, and goes there, leaving red herrings and counterplots and twists and turns in his path.
Yes, some of the characters are early versions of ones who would appear later in his career, and be even more wonderful, but what the heck.

I was a little disappointed to find that this book had no Jeeves...but I guess that’s on me! Still a fun rom-com!
An early Wodehouse but just as enjoyable. From below-stairs bets on engagements and hilarious misinformation-caused jumbles, this one does not disappoint.
A fun audiobook. Not the best Wodehouse, but good enough.
I can't remember when I've laughed so hard. Absolutely loved it.
What a tripPlot twists, mistaken identities, class disruptions, and witty dialogue - All in one place. The scene that was worth the whole book to me was when the distraught brother was surreptitiously following his sister in ill fitting shoes. Developing blisters was never so funny.
