https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141560.Screenplay
All the windows in the house are dark, except one on the second floor.ZOOM SLOWLY ON WINDOW WITH LIGHT ON:INT.
A man is reading on the left side of the bed by the reading light.THE MAN, a nerdy-type with glasses and a stack of books on his bedside table, slowly exhales while he turns a page.
The book is "Screenplay: The Foundations of Screenwriting" by Syd Field.ZOOM SLOWLY ON HIS FACE, KEEPING THE BOOK IN FRAME:The man slowly turns the last page, finishing, and resting the book on the bedside table next to the lamp.
I thought this book was going to be a technical guide to formatting a screenplay.I finished this book having no idea how to do that.
I now have a better idea of how movies are written, and thus a much more technical appreciation of the writer's creative decisions when I watch movies.All movies are structured identically: 3 acts -- first, a kick-off incident which leads to a major turning point to set up the conflict; then problem after problem ratchets the tension to a serious turning point; then the movie plays out and all life happily ever after (most of the time).
كتاب مهم ليس فقط لمن يسعى لتعلم كتابة السيناريو ، لكن برشحة لكل حد بيحب السينما كمشاهد وعادى ولاى كاتب ، الكتاب فية بعض الفصول المهمة على مستوى العلاقات الانسانية وفصول اخرى مهم بالنسبة للكاتب ورحلتة مع الكتابة من استكشاف للذات ونجاحات وفشل الكتاب لة ترجمة باللغة العربية لواحد عراقى مش متذكر اسمة لكن الترجمة صادرة فى السبعينات مشكلة الترجمة ان اسماء الافلام اللى مذكورة فى امثلة الكاتب فى النسخة القديم اغلبها مش معروف دلوقتى لكن فى النسخة الجديدة اغلب الافلام معروفة
If Save the Cat is like arithmetic, Screenplay is like algebra.What’s fascinating to me is the type of person each of these books was written for, which can be gleaned from the movies recommended by the authors.
As Field and I are much closer in terms of taste, I obviously recommend his book over Snyder’s.What does it do well?
It should be mentioned that a point of view is acquired through personal experience.
syd field is a no-nonsense, bridle no shit, formulaic bastard - but this book is an indispensable reference to those who are, actually writing a screenplay.
granted, this is more for those who are "writing to sell a screenplay to Hollywood" than those who want to experiment with the form.
field is relentlessly capitalist about his notion of a 'good script,' and backs up his theory & formula with examples from classic films like Chinatown, The Wild Bunch, Casablanca, Citizen Kane, and, if you're reading this new updated version, many modern films as well.
الكتاب رائع وكعادة الكتب الأمريكية تهتم بالتفاصيل وإن كانت دقيقة ولكنها تميز المحترف عن الهاوي.لقد و
Syd Field, não apenas domina a arte (técnica) da escrita de roteiros - técnica esta que, mutatis mutandis, se aplica a toda e qualquer escrita criativa -, como a própria psicologia da criação, ou seja, as ambigüidades, dilemas, obstáculos e dramas de todo artista, de todo aquele que tem de criar.Acresça-se a isso o fato de que Syd Field é um expositor de mão cheia, um escritor maravilhoso que escancara todos os meandros da arte sem maiores dificuldades, sempre com clareza, sempre com translucidez, entregando todo o trabalho pronto na mão do leitor.É impossível não se apaixonar pela arte de escrever roteiros - ou simplesmente de escrever criativamente - depois de ler esse livro.
Se você não termina a leitura com a idéia fixa na cabeça de imediatamente começar a escrever o seu primeiro roteiro, das duas uma: ou você é ruim da cabeça ou doente do pé.Esse livro não merece 5 estrelas.
Still stands as the "foundation." It was the first screenwriting book I read, and revisiting it is like scrubbing that old knowledge back to the surface. It feels good. It feels necessary.
I learned several key things from this book: first: get in late, get out early.
Second: make the scenes visual Third: every story had bones, structure.
Know your structure and build on it.
Otherwise you'll have no direction, no form and the reader will sense it in three pages and bolt - or give you a bad review.
Bonus: every movie worth its sale focuses the build up on one or two scenes.
Create this buildup and have it payoff during the key scene(s).
Second bonus: create contrast.
Make your reader feel it.
Even in Thrillers.
Especially in Thrillers.
Well I wasn't goin to read the book cause I'd heard rumors about how simple the book is. But I decided to give it a try myself and there we go... the book is actually good, explaining the whole process very well especially to those who search for something fundamental about screenwriting and are about to write the two first feature scripts.
This book is considered a bible in the industry -- ALL Hollywood screenwriters now conform rigidly to Field's notions of screenplay structure -- and that's why I consider this book to be the Root of All Evil.
نصيحة..أقرأ هذا الكتاب مرتين على الأقل قبل أن تكتبأى سيناريوسيد فيلد للسيناريست كنيوتن للفيزائى
structure is a beautiful thing. i carried this book around in my purse for weeks.
Човек и добре да живее… решава да напише сценарий.
Както отбелязва и самият Сид Фийлд в книгата си „Киносценарият” (изд.
С какво ще навреди още един на фона на хилядите, които се бълват всяка година?
Нищо, разбира се, но откъде се започва?Основният проблем, който измъчва и спъва повечето хора, които се наемат със задачата да разказват истории за киното и телевизията, е доста семпъл и същевременно критичен.
Какви са границите и неписаните правила, които оформят един добър сценарий, какви са капаните, които трябва да се избягват и как в крайна сметка резултатът да не изглежда като аматьорска драсканица?
Именно тук идва на помощ Сид Фийлд.Целият текст в Chronicle: http://www.chronicle.bg/bookclub/book...
Clear and straight to the point. Good practical knowledge and examples, still I wish Field would have used more than the same half a dozen books over and over again to prove his point. Would totally recommend for aspiring screenwriters of all ages and generations, this book has a few years on his hardcover but it still stands.
I'm so inspired.
لن أنتهي من قرأته ، والى الأبد
This was great to understanding how and where to start writing a script although it’s lacking SOME info on formatting (font size? Etc.)
I read the third edition (not sure if there is a more recent one) and much of it referred to movies I've never seen, but yet it seemed like he expected you to have seen them all.In some areas he "forces" you to read parts of certain screenplays.
I understand the reasoning behind showing a real example, but I don't think he needed to put the scripts where he did.
Psát recenzi na "učebnici" je vážně problémové – jak má člověk hodnotit něco, z čeho byste se měli učit a hodnotit to jako jakoukoli jinou prózu? Čtyři hvězdičky jsou každopádně asi takové optimum, protože ta kniha je fakt dobrá. Vážně. Dala mi hodně věcí nejen o psaní scénářů (ani jeden jsem ještě nenapsal, ale whatever), ale taktéž mi to pomohlo si uvědomit věci,k které by se daly promítnout do psaní obecně. Ode dneška si začnu uvědomovat věci schované ve filmech, které musíte mít zaryté v pod
Čtyři hvězdičky jsou každopádně asi takové optimum, protože ta kniha je fakt dobrá.
Dala mi hodně věcí nejen o psaní scénářů (ani jeden jsem ještě nenapsal, ale whatever), ale taktéž mi to pomohlo si uvědomit věci,k které by se daly promítnout do psaní obecně.
Všechno se to ale točilo kolem Hollywoodu, což mi bylo líto, protože: Jo, jasně, je to centrum kinematografie, ale damn it, i ostatní státy a místa tvoří dobré a kvalitní filmy, ne?
S.: Jestli se dostanu na výšku, na kterou chci, tak si tuhle knížku vážně koupím.
I like film, but I don't write screenplays.
It sounds like Field provides some really good, basic tips on constructing and writing a screenplay.
As I said, I really had no intention of writing one when I read this, but I certainly felt like I could if I wanted to after reading this book.
Also, I'm not a big fan of the the "guru" style of instructional writing - the kind that tells you in all caps and exclamation points exactly what to do OR ELSE!
But Field's writing style is sufficiently clear, straight forward, and concise to overcome those defects.
This book is a guidebook written to teach the reader.
Now, It's more challenging than ever to enjoy a movie as I am always thinking, was that the best way to show this, should this be omitted, was this scene important, how was the scene set up, what was the writer and/or director trying to convey to the audience, etc.?
Also, I began looking for the Plot Points and hooks, and reading screenplays online where I noticed that many where not followed as written.
His book is incredibly valuable for the writer interested in crafting a screenplay that sells.
I’ll preface by saying I’m a novelist, not a screenwriter.
Strictly from a novelist’s point of view, however, I found the book worthwhile for two primary reasons.
1) Its stripped-down, simple view of structure is fabulous.
It allows you to see the basics of structure at a glance, break it down to manageable chunks, and realize the big picture.
2) It’s also valuable in its ability to help film-saturated authors (such as myself) realize the important differences in story on the screen and story on the page.
Worth reading whether you’re a screenwriter, a novelist, or a short story writer.
This is by far the best screenwriting manual that I have read!
I came across it quite by accident in a used book store when I was first getting into screenwriting and it has helped me immensely.
I liked the author, Syd Field, so much that I then went and purchased all his other books.
If you were to only choose one of his many helpful writings, I would say this is the one to choose!
This got me excited and motivated to write!
It is also a very interesting and entertaining read.
Field has very specific ideas on what constitutes a good screenplay, and if you share those ideas and the philosophical assumptions that underlie them, this is potentially a very rewarding book. However, Screenplay does not allow for the existence of good screenplays that violate its underlying ideology, nor does it recognize the need for screenplays that expand the grammar of screenwriting. This is a very good travel guide to a very small world for people who don't plan on making any additional excursions.
Ten chlápek ví, o čem mluví. Jde to poznat a kniha je nabitá informacemi. Na druhou stranu to není vždy zrovna poutavé čtení, což dokazuje i to, jak dlouho jsem se touto knihou prokousával. Navíc některé informace jsou už zastaralé a psát je do knihy, která by měla sloužit generacím je nesmyslné. Oceňuji ale spoustu rad a určitě se k některým kapitolám znovu vrátím.
When it comes to understanding story structure and mastering the craft of storytelling and writing cinematically - Syd Field's SCREENPLAY is on my 'top ten' bookshelf of valued story writing reference books.
Even if I never write the screenplay, this book gave me a greater insight into writing in general. Learning about Plot Points enriched my idea of an outline giving me a better handle on my current work in progress.I highly recommend this book to students and writers.
كتاب جيد جداً . وممتع . مفيد ليس فقط في السيناريو لكن في الكتابة عموماً . يبدو وكأن سد فيلد يلقي تعاليم ووصايا لا تتبدل ومن يبتعد عنها لن يحالفه النجاح وهذا عيب هذا الكتاب . لكنه سيظل كتاباً مهماً بكل تأكيد .
Very useful for the begining and understanding the basics. A bit repetetive. Ending relevant only for writers in US.
