https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18054709-the-power-of-a-praying-woman
This book is all about learning to pray for yourself.
The chapters are very short (only 3-4 pages each) and fairly quick to read, and each concludes with a prayer and Bible verses related to the topic.
Ms. Omartian discussed topics that I had never thought to pray for myself for.
I read this over the course of a month, but may reread it over a longer period of time in order to build each topic into my prayer time for a few days.
I will definately come back to this book as it really has changed the way I pray for myself.
5 Stars...did you hear me?
* * * * * Stars!
I've read the Power of a Praying Wife before this and was expecting this book to be very similar.
Now don't get me wrong, the Power of a Praying Wife is also a very good book, but this book, this book breaks the mold.
My goal was to read this book one chapter per week in order to allow myself time to really soak up the information.
My personal experience in doing it this way was that the exact thing I was struggling with and needed to read happened to come up in the exact week that I needed it.
It is the best book a women can read, you usually pray for others but how can you take care of others when you are not taking care of yourself. It really spoke to me. God worked in me while I was reading it.
It was about at page 60/61 that I realised that the best way to read this book was not to read each chapter sequentially - instead this book requires life application, prayer and a heart that sincerely seeks change and spiritual growth through a closer walk with Jesus.
If you are already in a walk with God, you will hopefully be aware of areas in your life that God wants you to focus on, and commit to him in sincere prayer - as such, this book is a really good study aid and reference point.
*Listening to the audio CD version.I loved chapter 7 so far about how to gain a closer relationship with God, and to spend more time with Him. I also liked when she shared on "jobs/occupations" and chapter 13 on holiness and purity.I needed these friendly reminders. "Change me Lord prayers" is what I am seeking and working heavily on based on the calling that God foresees for my life.3.5 stars.
Mrs. Omartian's book of praying woman is excellent. It helps you to pray for yourself and for others. It teaches you and helps with words that you might've not known. I bought this book for my daughter. I would recommend this book especially for single women and of course married women. It also helped to realize that I don't need approval from a man but from God. It helped me realize my self-worth as a Christian woman. I wished I had read this book when I was single. Its a powerful book.
As wives and mothers, our personal needs often get pushed to the back burner-here's an easy way to move it front and center and get the support we all need.
As with "Power of a Praying Wife", the book is set up in 30 chapters that can be read as a chapter a day for a month."In The Power of a Praying "RM" Woman, Stormie's deep knowledge of Scripture and candid examples of her own struggles and epiphanies in prayer provide reassuring guidance for those who seek a greater sense of God's presence in their lives.
What an incredibly encouraging read! So important to pray for ourselves as well as others. I have had a revelation reading this book that prayer unlocks everything God has for us. He wants to give it to us but we must first humble ourselves to ask.This might be on my 'read' shelf but this book will become a way of life for me. I can't just read it and let it collect dust on the shelf. Women of faith, you owe it to yourself to read this book! May God bless you...
This book is amazing, it came to me at the right time, going through betrayal, loss and heartache. I now know for sure the Lord will heal me and take me forward. I now know how to pray to reach God and I know there is a future for me.
God is speaking through me with this book. I never felt that way about a book ever since reading "A Return to Love" in 2006. :)Two Thumbs Up!
I love Stormie's books. She add a beautiful and enriching prayer at the end of each chapter which always seems to hit home!
Two words: completely amazingIt took me almost a month to finish this book because I honestly didn't want it to end. Every chapter in every day was like my daily dose of fresh air. The perfect soul food to every woman who wants to live with more and more purpose all the days of her life . Will definitely reread the prayers.
I feel that every woman should read this book honestly. Its so inspirational and empowering.
Very inspiring and motivating. Prayer is powerful in healing.
This is a must read for every woman trying to grow in her faith. It shows you the power of praying for yourself as well as others
A wonderful book about the best thing we can do for our husbands.
Beautifully written!! Definitely a book to keep on your shelf and turn back to as you work on your prayer life and strengthen your faith. Not just a one time read! I need I buy me a copy!!!
Beautiful study group where woman got together to share in there faith in Jesus. Laughter, tears, joy and hope were shared here. Friendships were formed. Lookiing forward to the next one.
I have sticky notes on all the prayer pages and I pray one every day. I have for a few years now.
Love this book!😊👍👍👍👍
Pray Unceasingly and God will answer.Storms is truly a "Good and faithful servant" of our Lord. She lays out her life struggles and her heart to help us is know, believe and trust our LORD.Her prayers have saved me from myself so many times. They have pulled me out of satan's dark clutches time and again. Listen to our living God speak to you through her and "pray without ceasing.
Up until this point, I'd always tried to cover EVERY topic in every prayer, but The Power of a Praying Wife taught me this wasn't the correct path to pursuing a deeper and more intimate relationship with my God, but instead showed me that I had a checklist mentality and just needed to check off every area that needed to be covered in prayer.After reading The Power of a Praying Wife, I read The Power of a Praying Woman for the first time, and this book blew me away.
To stand firm in her faith and allow God to do the heavy lifting.Description:Stormie Omartian’s bestselling The Power of a Praying® series (more than 23 million copies sold) is rereleased with fresh new covers and new material to reach a still-growing market of readers eager to discover the power of prayer for their lives.It may seem easier to pray for your spouse, your children, your friends, and your extended family, but God wants to hear your requests for your life too.
Women of all ages will find hope and purpose for their lives with The Power of a Praying® Woman.It shared a premise that we, as women of God, needed to pray for ourselves.
Great and powerful book. God bless you all
Immediately after I started this study, I felt a whole new connection to God. The reader quickly realizes this is not about changing your husband, or making him into the man you want.
This is about strengthening your own prayer life, learning how to pray with a pure heart, and seeing how God works in your life, your husband's life, and in your marriage.
My prayer life has grown tremendously and my husband and I have a whole new connection and strength in our marriage that we did not have one year ago.
POWERFULLY ANOINTED BOOK TO HELP YOU BE THE PRAYER WARRIOR GOD DESTINED YOU TO BE!
I really want to get copies of her other books: The Power of a Praying ~Husband; ~Wife, etc.After reading this one book, I feel more confident as a woman and know better who my enemy is; I am ready to teach my sisters in Christ about this personal revelation by Stormie, I trust her, because she is of my own "species" and believe what she is teaching is worth digging in.
I have read through and prayed through this book many times over.
What I love about Stormie's books are that they are filled with scriptures which are life giving and truths that are life changing.
My mind is challenged and renewed everytime I read from one of her books.This quote from Chapter 14 really encouraged me in January 2008:"No matter how far off the path you have gotten from the plans and purposes God has for you, when you surrender your life to the Lord and declare your utter dependance upon Him, He carves a path from where you are to where you are supposed to be, and He sets you on it...
Excellent book! I added this into my personal quiet/Bible time in the mornings. It was a perfect addition. Short chapters followed with a powerful prayer and "God's Promises to Me". I love that she incorporated so much scripture in her chapters and prayers. Much of what she said hit me right where I needed it. This book was such an encouragement to me in a time when I didn't even know I needed it. A must-read for all women. I'm excited to begin another book by Stormie.
I have been reading this book for devotions over the last year and it has been amazing.
Not the book I thought it was going to be when I first found it though.
Stormie knows what Christian women want, it was like she read my mind!
This book isn't so much about the ins and outs of how to pray but rather a step to step guide of walking the Christian life and all the areas we need to pray in.
I found it very well rounded over all.
Some of the chapters seem to double up with others.
Definitely recommend.
