https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1433981.Death_of_a_Hero
For decades it was censored in England on account of the sheer venom that Aldington brought to his depiction of pre-World War One British society, and of the war itself as conducted by the British High Command.
The novel tells the story of George Winterbourne (as in Winter-born), a young modernist British painter who before the war lives marginally in London, focused mainly on his art, and has relationships with two young women: Elizabeth (who becomes his wife) and Fanny (who doesn’t, but with whom he continues his liaison).
The novel graphically and eloquently depicts both the hypocrisies of British pre-War society, and the horrors and follies of the War itself.
A largely autobiographical novel about a British soldier, George Winterbourne, and his experiences in WW1 as an infantryman and then an officer.
In the middle of the novel we see George strike out on his own to London as an author and then marry a young woman named Elizabeth.
The writing style used by Aldington is a mix of beautifully poetic paragraphs interspersed with realism and its shocking descriptions of trench warfare.
But his vanity would have been a little shocked by what actually happened.”So I give this novel 4.5 stars, if you like war novels probably five stars.
3.5
These phases of George Winterbourne’s life are mere tools for her own purposes.That relationship cuts to the heart of the book, and the difference between Remarque and Aldington.
Remarque would fully acknowledge that this group of youth he portrays are used as tools, but his focus is on the breaks between individuals that this war causes, the loss of life as national tragedy, that is his focus.Aldington is not interested in this.
The title and start of the novel tells the reader that the central character, George Winterbourne is a soldier in the First World War, killed a week before the signing of the armistice.
Published in 1929, it is one of the many novels from the war which in part helped define its historical significance by presenting characters who were seen as victims rather than victors.
I enjoyed this book despite the tinge of misogyny (well, maybe not a tinge, because the specific attitude to women almost made me drop the book in the beginning). But it was worthwhile, still. This book is everything I think about the world today.

This novel is about George Winterbourne who is drafted into the British Army during WWI, and as an infantryman, is sent to the Western Front, France, to fight and survive as best he can in the trenches.
During battle in the trenches as they are beating back retreating German troops out of their trenches, George, seeing many of his troops dead astound him, pushes himself up to run and gunned down by German machine gun.Great characterization.
Makes one think about the lunacy of trench warfare.
However, to war generally, the novel makes intelligent, thought provoking points about the sanity of war by nations, and how war changes the soldiers fighting it.
Do not buy this edition! It's the redacted version. A sensible adult can read the word Bugger and still be okay. Do yourself a favor and read Aldington's original, unbowdlerized text in this edition:Death Of A Hero
This book is about British society of the XIXth - beggining of XXth century and about the 1st World War. The author shows how terrible it was to be a soldier. The book was really impressive. I gave 5 stars to it 'cause i like the way Aldington expresses human emotions. But you should be ready - the story is quite depressive and sad.
Death of a Hero spends a lot of time exploring and condemning failings of the old-fashioned British society starting from the imposing of broken and dishonest model of family and relationship between men and women and ending with patriotism and mindset of being the cog in the Imperial machine.
Aldington doesn`t spend a lot of time in glorification of soldier`s brotherhood like Remarque or in the introspection about heroism and life during the war as Hemingway did.
Since World War I we saw multiple lost generations and unfortunately, this will happen again.I want to acknowledge the style of writing on this novel, that Aldington himself describes as jazz novel.
Якось символічно ця книга потрапила мені в руки в 100 роковини заверешення Першої світової війни.Цей твір став для мене на одному щаблі з "Поверненням" Ремарка.
Плавний, меланхолійний, навіть трохи сонний перебіг подій у перших частинах підводить тебе до своєрідного струсу, зламу, яким став початок війни для головного героя.
І та безвихідь, з якою він стикається...
Щось як у "Мартіна Ідена".
А втім прочитайте, чесно.І стільки аналогій з нашою, українською, реальністю, що просто з болем усвідомлюєш наскільки правдива теза про циклічність історії.
Твір написаний у 1929!
році у Франції і виданий у 1988!
році в СРСР.
I don't know why the author chose to chart the hero's family history back two generations given the amount of the book it takes up.
It is unfortunate that he wasted about two thirds of the book rationalizing, moralizing and philosophizing on specific people, their attitudes and their times before actually beginning on the subject matter of the piece.
That last third of the story is very good, but not good enough to make up for the boredom that one must experience before reaching it.
By the time I'd reached the halfway point I had decided on the number of stars I would give this novel.
I found this book to be very tedious.
It took me forever to make my way through it.
Maybe I just don't get old school British satire, maybe it just bores me.
I don't know.
One thing that frustrated me is that this book is described as a war novel but the first 2/3 or so of the book is spent talking about the various characters lives, or chronicling the two generations of family.
I still don't understand if this edition was actually using them to leave out certain parts of the book or if it was just a gimmick, either way, highly annoying.
A really oddly written war book but ultimately very moving. The first 2/3 is a wackily, sometimes salaciously written set up for who the guy is and how Victorian and Edwardian England formed him and society in all manner of dysfuncitonal ways which make war possible. The last 1/3 is our man George in the war itself and it's some of the best writing I've read on the pointless savagery and mind and nerve destroying, soul crushing nature of the whole thing. A weird but stimulating and sickening read.
Erudite, witty, satirical and compassionate, Death of a Hero took my breath away. Richard Aldington has an incredibly precious style (reminds me of Nancy Mitford in Love in a Cold Climate in some ways), and he manages to write about tragedy with a deliciously comic touch. His writing is quick, clever and full of cultural references that add an immediate richness of meaning. It was a joy - and surprise - to read, and it is a novel that, now I've found it, I will read over and over again.
A great story about England before and during the 1st World War. It is not only an anti-war novel, but a profound study of human nature which spans the life of several generations. The book wonderfully describes the time when modernist movement is born: "Art for art's sake", denunciation of religious dogmas, sexual freedom, etc. Bitter, sarcastic, but also very humane and sincere.
Could be 4.5 stars. Published in 1929 -- one of the first novels about World War I. Very cynical, very much about society's mores (no accent available -- say "more-Aze") --even more than about the war. Excellently literary -- the pacing and construction at end are impactful.
The first half of the book, while interesting, was far too long. However, the scenes from the Western Front, and his experience back in England from the front, were fantastic and richly described. Overall a great book.
boring, tedious, homophobic, unlikable main character, need i say more?
I wanted to give this 5 stars but I found the story a bit plodding through the middle. I get why this part had to be developed but it was hard to read. Otherwise a classic worth reading.
Олдингтон совершенно не думает о будущем своего героя, потому что герой вроде как совершает самоубийство, так что будущее здесь совершенно определенно, как бы саркастично это не звучало.
Он считает, что причина смерти-самоубийства Героя именно в его родителях как жертвах эпохи, попутно обличая всю Великобританию и королеву Викторию в частности.
"Потерянное Поколение" - это причина нас сегодняшних, тех, кто в адеквате смотрит на явление войны и понимает трагедию их жертв.
Смерть Героя - это не вина родителей, не вина отдельной страны и Олдингтон очень очень очень не прав, рассуждая около такой темы о том, как воспитывать детей и какой плохой была эпоха.
I feel gratified somehow, I feel like I've read one of those books which are essential or very important to the booker lover, literature lover I am and simply that I have learnt more about human experience.It took me so long to read but it was worth the read.The author describes Death of a Hero as "a jazz novel" and after finishing this novel, I do understand what he means, however I am incapable of explaining what makes it so.This novel is dense, intense, poetic, sarcastic, depressing, gripping and there are so much cultural references eitheir historical, literary, sociological, poetical that it was a pain in the ass more than once!
How delicious the first flashes of recognition!"[talking about birth control; emphasis mine] " 'It seems a bit revolting!''Not a bit!
You may feel so because you've had mushy ideas about maidenly modesty and such twaddle instilled into you.
Now, I think the really civilised thing is not to let such things happen to us like animals, but to control them.
I do say so sometimes when I feel discouraged and disgusted with the poor scarecrows of humanity we are now.
Isn't it insane that we exercise over animals the control they haven't got themselves, and yet resolutely refuse to even discuss it about human beings?
In the world of war novels, there are no easy reads.
But the poignancy of Aldington's scathing, bitter novel struck me in his perfect descriptions of PTSD (shell-shock).
As a PTSD survivor, I heard my own voice in Aldington's prose.
I think all PTSD survivors can relate to Aldington's primal cry:"You have a vendetta of the dead against the living.” Yes, it is true, I have a vendetta, an unappeased longing for vengeance.
Yes, a vendetta.
Tortures of hell, we are responsible!Death of a Hero is a painful novel, but honest, purposeful, and compelling.
Cant and sex.
Those are the twin themes of this book, although, perhaps, it would be more accurate to say that cant about sex is the one theme of this book.
They are a set of grotesques, wrapped so tightly in late Victorian sexuality that it warps them beyond almost all humanity.
The point is made repeatedly and with little subtlety.
The effect is not a little tedious.
This is a shame because when the war writing begins it is electrifying, although, again, Aldington finds the causes of the war in Victorian sexual mores.
Aldington's first novel is definitely a harder read, but still worth the effort.
For someone who derides the Victorians as he does, his prose still very much reflects the Victorian method, with lots of interspersed phrases in French and Latin, and several random flights into classical imagery.
Lots of introspection and observation, so if you like action in your literature, this may not be the book for you.That being said, this should be a required read for all college classes on WWI.
And, if you think pacifism is a wimp's position, this book may make you at least atop and think about what they have to say...
A bitter indictment of the hypocrisy and stifling moral values of the Victorian/Edwardian generation and of the wholesale murder of the First World War for which they are held responsible.
Split into three parts, Aldington begins with his protagonist's childhood and adolescence, a sharp satire of a Victorian middle-class marriage.
In Part 2 the hero tries to make his way as an artist and writer in pre-war London, and falls in love; here the satire is directed against the intelligentsia and the self-obsession of wealthy amateur artists, as well as against the 'free love' values espoused in reaction to the Victorian codes of marriage.
The first 2/3 of this book were hard going, a lot of seemingly unnecessary family history. I understand that Aldington was illustrating how WWI changed family, life and that lots of families were left without a younger generation to inherit and continue family names and traditions.Once the narrative got to the war it was very engaging and Aldington was skilled in emerging the reader in the action.
