https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17884042-still-life-with-bread-crumbs
The entire novel has a beautifully understated feel about it so I will aim to be likewise here.Sometimes, when you finish a book, you just want to sit and hold it - to keep hold of the feeling the book gave you for just a little longer. This is one of those books. Something special 5★
Sadly, while the book kept me engaged enough to care a bit about the characters and where they ended up, I found the story shallow and trite.
Anna's central character (Rebecca Winter) is an intelligent, accomplished and sophisticated professional (photographer), albeit on the downside of a brilliant career and separated from her erudite and egotistical husband.
As expected, Rebecca is well aware of the "women's issues" in her life, but they all seem too forced and ordinary (which is not to say unimportant or unchallenging) to be genuinely revealing or memorable.
Characters interact and move along in predictable ways, leading us to an ending that is...well, predictable.
If you are a female who loves "romance books" or "romantic stories" but don't actually want to read about any sexual activities, this book is for you.Another thing I want to mention about this book is it's rather predictable and cutesy "older white rich woman takes a younger lover, travels to a new location, discovers herself and gets a new lease on life!" Her old shallow life falls away, and her deeper, more meaningful new life with her younger, too-amazing-for-words lover takes its place.
Made this character so easy for me to identify with and feel compassion for as well.Had to laugh at one part, where she is told a story about someone who collected snow globes and than forever after, that is all she would receive for gifts.
Things change for her in a big way when she rents the cottage, so much so that she finds it hard to go back to the New York person she was.
the other characters in the book and well really loved and identified with the whole story.
Love stories can be tricky; they can be too sappy and unbelievable or they can be overdrawn and melodramatic, but now and again they can be life affirming and heartwarming.
Rebecca Winter is an unlikely protagonist for a love story.
Rebecca soon learns that there is often more than one point of view and that life is multilayered and complex.
Quindlen’s keen insights into the subjects of love and family, ageing and the ever evolving self make Still Life with Bread Crumbs a compelling and delightful story, and is one of her finest; it should not be missed.
Still Life with Bread Crumbs has been called the literary equivalent of comfort food, but it just made me feel uncomfortable.
I really wanted to like this, since it is authored by Anna Quindlen and the premise sounded somewhat interesting; after the story devolved into a vaguely creepy May-December romance lacking Quindlen's usual gifted writing I was sadly disappointed.
I had hoped for a book with more than a predictable plot, one-dimensional characters, and rambling writing, but when I came to the list of words that Rebecca's dog could understand and read the phrase "But that was later" for what seemed like the fiftieth time, I knew I wasn't going to find the depth and exceptional writing I was looking for in Still Life with Bread Crumbs.
First I need to get this off my chest: Reviewers, do not say that Rebecca, at 60, is "past her prime".
Rebecca Winters experiences life with the sort of acceptance that opens doors.
When Jim Banks appears, she welcomes him but with questions and expectations that she needs to analyze.
When he first looked her in the eyes she "could see the wear and tear of life".
You only recognize that look when you too have some wear and tear.
She gives us snapshots of Rebecca's life--divorce, son, aging parents, photography, financial struggles----that eventually make a whole.
There are people who like Rebecca, the main character, a formerly famous photographer who's now divorced and poor, trying to reclaim her life.
The people who like Rebecca are all kind, goodhearted souls who are at worst a little quirky.
People who like Rebecca include her adult son Ben, who's hip and cool and totally, uncomplicatedly, loves his mom.
The plot is this: Rebecca, down on her luck, worrying about money, fearing she may be a has-been, lonely despite the fact that all the good people seem to love her instantaneously, has moved from Manhattan to a small town in order to save money.
I am dismayed at some of the reviews I read of this book that derides it for being a "comfortable" read.
When did it become mandatory that novels be torturous and uncomfortable?
Sometimes a book can be a rich and satisfying meal instead of a bitter dose of medicine.
I thoroughly enjoyed this novel.
Here is where her life takes on a new shape and the reader is given the treat of meeting several memorable characters.
Quindlen treats him and his role in the book with sensitivity and humor.No spoilers here.
I'll urge the reader to indulge in this satisfying meal and get your dose of medicine elsewhere.
I usually don’t figure it out until I see that most of the GR reviews are by women and then I sigh and say, “Another one.”I first read Anna Quindlen when she had an occasional column on the back page of Newsweek.
When I read Anna Quindlen, the author, I realize that is also true although I do not always think of it.
It turns out that book is nonfiction – a memoir – so I might find out a little bit about what makes Anna Quindlen.But the gentle one liners keep on coming.
This is a book I picked up from the library for two reasons - I love books with quirky titles, and this book certainly appealed on that criteria.
I was interested to discover what relevance the title had to the plot.
Secondly, I needed a book with an author whose name started with Q for a challenge I am taking part in.
Quindlen is a story teller.
I love the way the author will be telling someone's story, and when she gets a bit ahead of herself, she writes 'But that was later.
'This is a lovely gentle story with strong undercurrents.
In your heyday, you got attention; in your senescence, prizes."She flees her posh New York City apartment to live for a year in a cottage in the country, hoping the rent from the apartment will help abate some of her financial woes, and the change in setting will inspire her to create again.
I really enjoyed this book very, very much, and found myself devouring it very quickly.It has been a while since I've read a book by Anna Quindlen, but after reading Still Life with Bread Crumbs, I was reminded just how much I love her writing, and how good books can make you feel.
BLURB Still Life with Bread Crumbs begins with an imagined gunshot and ends with a new tin roof. Between the two is a wry and knowing portrait of Rebecca Winter, a photographer whose work made her an unlikely heroine for many women. Her career is now descendent, her bank balance shaky, and she has fled the city for the middle of nowhere. There she discovers, in a tree stand with a roofer named Jim Bates, that what she sees through a camera lens is not all there is to life.Brilliantly written, po
Still Life with Bread Crumbs begins with an imagined gunshot and ends with a new tin roof.
The story is not only about a sixty year old woman who has to start a new life for herself, while taking care of her parents and son, it is also about the tale behind a series of photographs and how a picture tells a thousand stories in itself.
Sixty becomes the new forty and it is well proven in the theme of the book.
A powerful detail which underscores, in this case, a series of photographs taking stock of a life desperately calling out for understanding and compassion.
I can always depend on an enjoyable read when I pick up a Quindlen book and this was no different.
The problem was that she’d thought that at a certain point she would be a finished product.” ― Anna Quindlen, Still Life with Bread Crumbs I love Quindlen's ability to sprinkle humor throughout her stories.
I feel like I have grown up with Quindlen and at this time in my life II related oh so well with Rebecca and so wanted things to work out for her.
This is a bit of a departure for Quindlen who tackles some tough topics in her books.
Quindlen has the ability to write real life, believable fiction.
Also, it was just good writing.A really nice story about Rebecca an artist (photographer) who has money problems.
The story has a womens fiction feel since it deals with her work, her life, her friends, and her family.
She also sends money to help support her young adult son.I generally don’t like stories that jump around in time, and this one does, but it wasn’t too bad.
It starts with her living in the country with flashbacks to her earlier life, her marriage, her divorce, and her success as a famous photographer.I like the idea of an artist who hasn’t done anything for a while and then finds her muse in a new location.I was engaged and very interested.
DNF nach 45 % In der Stadtbücherei habe ich einfach mal blind nach diesem Buch gegriffen, da das Hauptthema des Romans gemäß des Klappentextes eigentlich nicht uninteressant klang und teilweise auf meine Person auch zutraf.
Das Schlimmste aber an dem Buch ist die Einstellung von Rebecca zur Arbeit.
Rebecca hat nämlich nur das Problem, dass sie nicht mehr für 100 $ dinieren gehen kann.
Furchtbar.Aufgeregt hat mich auch der deutsche Verlag Droemer, der natürlich dem Buch für den heimischen Markt einen neuen Titel und Aussehen geben musste.
Still Life with Bread Crumbs by Anna Quinlan is the story of Rebecca a 60 year old previously famous photographer. She leaves New York due to financial difficulties and rents an inexpensive cabin out in the woods. It's a story of new beginnings. The highlight of the book is her budding romance with her roofer. A wonderful love story. A nice theme about her being able to reinvent herself at the age of 60.The audiobook is only 6 cd's and quick to get thru.3.5 out of 5 stars.
And the ironic thing is, she won awards and got famous for her black and white photography series entitled "Still Life with Bread Crumbs," a brilliant and intimate inside look into the traditional roles of a wife and mother and a shocking and beautiful take on modern feminism when she herself didn't really intend for the series to be feminist.
When I got to the end (because once I hit that 120 page mark, I stayed up literally all night to read the rest in one sitting) I was astounded at how much I loved this book and what an impact it made on me.
I related easily to the main character, 60 year old Rebecca Winter, a photographer whose works reflected the understated tenor of this novel.
This is not a page turner but it is a gentle exploration of a complex character and in particular of a woman who undergoes a momentous change in her life experiences.
It is about the changes that occur in her and her way of looking life.The prose is beautiful -lines like this one about Sarah the owner of Tea for Two abound.
Sarah is an interesting character in the book.
The only other book I've read by this well known and respected author was "Black and Blue" which I absolutely loved, so I was surprised when I so disliked this book that so many people are raving about.I listened to Still Life on audio and it read like a made-for-tv Hallmark movie of the week.
It was predictable, schmaltzy and above all boring.
The sentences went on like meandering country roads; going no where and in need of repair.
Perhaps I would have liked this better had I read and not listened to this book as the narration was fine during the parts of the main character, but the voices of the different characters proved disastrous, often sounding like vampires from Transylvania!
I have been a Anna Quindlin fan since reading the first few sentences of Black and Blue 10 or 15 years ago. I still remember getting chills reading about the abusive husband's butterscotch syrup voice. I was hooked. One of Anna Quindlin's many talents is creating complex and relatable characters. She's done it again in Still Life With Breadcrumbs with Rebecca and her new friend Jim Nates. Even the dog is worth caring about. This not a fast paced action packed plot driven story. It's interesting characters and just enough happens to keep me turning the pages
It is a story about possibility, and new beginnings, and simpler days, and being comfortable in your own skin.It is advertised as a love story and while it does involve a romance with a younger man, that is not the core.
Though she is sixty and her professional career as a professional photographer seems on the decline, she is still involved in “coming of age!” Trying to find ways to stay financially afloat while she figures out how to boost her bank account, she ventures into new territory, leaving her familiar life in NYC and moving to a remote rural town, living in a run-down house “Fully furnished.
Second read:I chose this book to reread because I loved it so the last time.
I read it the first time and mostly listened the second time.
It just turned me off totally this time out.
First read:Some people are just gifted.
I recommend this book for: any woman who has ever been married; anyone who's ever wanted to bag her life and escape to a cabin in the mountains; people who appreciate small town stories; readers who appreciate a good love story; anyone who wants to feel something, to experience life and truth, distilled.
This is your book.
Following her inevitable divorce, she lives on their proceeds, but now at 60 the money is running out and she is trying to continue paying for her mother's nursing home, her father's rent, as well as the exhorbitant maintenance fees on her own NY apartment.
Rebecca decides to move to the country and rent out her apartment.
There in the woods she finds more photographic opportunities, and other opportunities she never saw coming -- although I did.I identified with Rebecca in multiple ways, being in her age group, a bit of a dabbler in photography, with more knowledge of nursing homes than I ever cared to have.
So incredibly late to the party on this book and this author. But I loved it. The central struggle of what it means to remain relevant as an artist -- and a woman -- and how one must continue to examine the evolution of those things felt incredibly poignant to me. And the world of this novel was so richly imagined. I wanted to live in the community the author created!
This book attracted my attention because the main character is 60 years old. I'm glad to find a novel about an aging person of the boomer generation still involved with romance. This book qualifies for the "romantic novel" genre (I think). I mention it here because my recent review of  Possession: A Romance  indicated it to be not of that genre. In this case the main character is a Jewish divorced woman who is also famous in the artistic community. She has been forced to flee New York City and m
I'm glad to find a novel about an aging person of the boomer generation still involved with romance.
Nevertheless, the author Anna Quindlen has a reputation for writing stories that capture the angsts of her current generation, and if this book is any indication it appears she is aging along with the rest of us.
The example in this story of a city sicker subletting her Upper West Side Manhattan apartment and renting a cottage upstate in the woods, sight unseen, provides an admirable example of setting out on a new chapter in life with gusto.
I liked, but didn't love this book - it was a super easy read (despite the fact that it took me nearly a week to get through it.....my concentration is shot recently).
Rebecca wasn't yet poverty stricken but still had major money woes throughout the book ((view spoiler)[and I could have done without the neat influx of cash at the end.
So many people I know (including me) are just like this, and so are many Americans....not poverty level, but often living month-to-month, yet few books ever touch on the subject.
She shares less than a handful of conversations with the man she falls in love with throughout the book, making the relationship feel less credible than it should.My favorite part of the book was the humorous side stories and anecdotes, which gave the story life it otherwise wouldn't have had.
I loved that she gave the dog a voice, as silly and trivial as that may sound- it really gave life to the story.The second half of the book was far more compelling than the first.
If you like Anna Quindlen, you will love this one. If you've never read her books, this is a good one to start with. Much less intense than her previous work of fiction, it's the story of a 60 year old woman who finds that she must re-invent herself. This reinvention happens is many different ways, a lot of them accidental, but sometimes, as the main character says, "You just know it when you see it."
A simple story, really. Yet utterly compelling. I couldn’t help but turn page after page wondering “What happens next?” A woman taken completely out of her context, not so much by choice, but for financial survival, has none of the amenities she’s used to. But through trial and error, she comes to relish her new — stark — environs. And through the lens of authentic and transparency — no pretension whatsoever — she discovers her true self and allows others to find her as well.
