https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25663717-the-two-family-house
The two married couples in this novel are Rose and Mort & Helen and Abe. They are Jewish couples like my husband and I.I remember the stories my own mother told me of living in a 2- family house, upstairs/downstairs, before I was born.
Reading this book made me very grateful for our 1 family home.
Back to "The Two Family House":The husbands are brothers -they own a company together.
What makes this story strong are the dynamics and complexities of the relationships of each of the characters.
Lynda Cohen Loigman created a very interesting story -a shame to tell too much- and characters that are fully developed.
I wish to thank Net Galley, St. Martin’s Press and Lynda Cohen Loigman for an ARC of this novel in exchange for an unbiased review.Ohhhh, I really did not want this book to end.
The Two-Family House is the debut novel of Lynda Cohen Loigman.
This is a 100% character-driven novel about the lives of the families of two brothers living on separate floors of the same house in Brooklyn, NY.
Some readers may find this a slow go as there are no murders and not a lot of suspense, but as I say, I was totally engrossed in the lives of these people.
Very memorable characters and it was interesting to see different ways this was handled.
Many of these characters were just so darn endearing and the author has such a natural way of writing this was a pleasure to read.The atmosphere of the novel was spot on for the fifties, the closeness of families unlike now when many of us live so far apart from our loved ones.
Can't imagine ever doing what these two women did but it made for interesting reading.
Still a wonderful, well paced story and will definitely be reading this author again.ARC from Netgalley.
Rose and Mort have three daughters downstairs, and their marriage is marked by tension and dissatisfaction: Mort never wanted to take on the family business but his mother talked him into abandoning college to do so, and he's disappointed that Rose has never borne him a son.
I'd love to talk to the Loigman about this book, mostly because I want to ask her at what point she expects her audience to figure out the primary plot twist.
I think a single point of view would have strengthened both the tension of learning the families' secrets and the character development.
The Two-Family House is a story of two brothers, Abe and Mort Berman.
The brothers have very similar lives.
Mort is morose and socially inept, thinks his brother is incompetent and shows little interest in his daughters.I love family sagas and the characters that drive them.
The Two-Family House is a heart-felt character driven story told from the POV of the four parents, Abe, Mort, Helen, Rose and from two of the children, Judith and Natalie.The story runs from 1947 to 1970 which gives you quite an investment into the characters lives and growth.
Raising their families side by side, supporting one another, Rose and Helen share an impenetrable bond forged before and during that dramatic winter night.Following the Berman family in the two-family house in Brooklyn from 1947 to 1970, we get to hear from six main points of view: Rose, Helen, Mort, Abe, Judith, and Natalie.
It was like the author said best when describing another character: “After that, she had faded into the background, her personality hazy and her role in the family vague.”• Rose's husband, Mort, it turns out, is kind of the root of the problem where that night in 1947 is concerned.
I am afraid that The Two-Family House by Lynda Cohen Loigman just did nothing for me.
The premise was interesting, but it was also rather obvious what had happened.
That's okay, I can work with that as long as the book keeps me interested, which this failed to do.
The first third I found interesting, but from there on it began to flag to the point where I just wanted it to be over.I listened to this on audio, perhaps it may have been a better read than a listen.
Rose's constant whining irritated me and I kept thinking that someone should slap her.
https://www.facebook.com/suzyapprovedThis book is $2.99 on digital platforms 2/19 https://www.facebook.com/suzyapproved...
3.5 StarsA Touching story about two families living in Brooklyn in 1947.
And I really did feel like I was a fly on the wall in The Two family house in Brooklyn as the writing is so vivid and the characters so realistic.I would describe this as a gentle book, its the sort of book I could recommend to anyone and know they will enjoy the read and come away with a smile on their faces.
A really enjoyable read and I think this would make a great book club discussion book.
When I was a teeny tiny toddler we used to live in a multiple story house with my mother's sister living on the floor above us.
Before the building was sold, there was a falling out of which I still don't know (or don't remember) the details.To this day I haven't really warmed up to my cousins eventhough we were too young to understand things.In The Two-Family House two brothers live with their respective wives and offspring in one house.
Abe and Helen have a relaxed attitude in the upbringing of their lively and very energetic four boys.
This book was pretty damn near perfection!
It deals with two families, two babies who were born on the same day and one house in Brooklyn.
Both families live in this same house because the husbands are related and the wives have become close friends.
I love books that are written from several perspectives and this was one of them.
Nevertheless, this novel comes with so many other strong parts that make it easy for me to ignore this small defect.
I loved the families, I loved the tragedies and it was one of those books that I was sorry to see ending.
Compulsively readable debut about two brothers, their wives, and their families sharing a two-family house in Brooklyn just after World War II.
Loigman deftly explores the relationships between the brothers, husbands and wives, parents and children, cousins, aunts/uncles with their nieces/nephews, and most especially the sisters-in-law.
Their story forms the crux of the novel and affects all the other relationships.I listened to the audio version, which was particularly enjoyable as the narrator captured the unique New York City accents.Thank you to NetGalley and St. Martin's Press for a galley of this book in exchange for an honest review.
This is not a spoiler, by the time you get to this point you’ll be able to outline each chapter before you start it.Everything about this book is predictable from the big secret that isn’t revealed until near the end, but which anyone with some semblance of intelligence should suss out almost at the start, to the way each character reacts and evolves, and I use that term loosely since characterization is only surface level.
If only the predictability had been infused with some level of emotional depth or intensity, I might have found something to applaud.
I wasn't blown away by this novel. I enjoyed the first half a lot better than the second. The last parts of the story seemed to move too quickly for me and the ending felt a bit neat and unrealistic. I really liked the development of the characters which helped me to empathize with the feelings each character was dealing with. The choices these women made and the resulting conflict was very well played out. I am left wondering if the choices had been different would things have still turned out the way the did? 3.5 stars.
AUDIOBOOKGreat characters. I have been sucked right in to this storyI loved listening to this story about two brothers and their families who lived in the one house... one family upstairs and one downstairs. It was a roller coaster ride of the ups and downs in life and a secret the two mothers kept
May 1947, Rose and Mort live downstairs from Helen and Abe, in a two-family house in Brooklyn.
Rose and Mort have three fairly quiet girls, Abe and Helen have a houseful of four rambunctious boys.
Both Mort and Abe, who work together at their family business, are out of town for work, and a mild panic is building.
Rose can’t seem to accept that there is no way to get to the hospital to deliver her baby despite Helen’s numerous phone calls.
There are a number of family-related themes throughout, as the children grow up, as the years pass there are changes, growth in individuals and in couples.
This is a really remarkable memorable read.Anyone that loves a family drama book, family dysfunctional or just a plain ole moving gut wrenching moments should read this book, its full of emotions.There are still some houses that home 2 families, one up, one down and of course you live in very close proximity of each other which isn't always easy.
The moodiness can someone get to you, but you need to remember, its a very close proximity they are living in.I was thinking of Big Brother, have you watched it?Its OK at the start its all nice.
I still can't believe THE TWO-FAMILY HOUSE is a debut novel.
The characters are so real and believable, they feel as if they are people you know and really care about.
They made me laugh and they made me cry and all the while I was holding my breath, afraid of what was going to come next.
Secrets will be revealed and heartbreak comes along with tragedy which had me going through so many different emotions and feelings.
Near the end I tried to read slower just because I didn't want to say goodbye to THE TWO-FAMILY HOUSE and all the lovable people inside.ARC provided by Netgalley for honest review.
Great premise but poorly executed. The characters were one dimensional and the story line beyond predictable. I finished this book...but if I had other books to read, I would have put this one aside.
The first 30% was a bit slow, as the author tells you what will be happening in the opening chapter, and then proceeds share the build-up to this event with you.
I personally think she should have left the opening chapter, as the first third of the book would have been much more suspenseful.
The rest of the book is amazing, as you realize that the story is actually not about the event but about the consequences.
The Two-Family House really had me thinking late into the night, about whether their lives would have turned out differently if they made different choices.
A great book for book club discussions I think.
I figured out pretty quickly, and probably many readers will, exactly what happened that one night....the night you read about first from the perspective of the midwife in very impactful and engaging prologue.....and yet it didn't seem to matter...an element of suspense was still there in a way - it was so brilliantly written that it felt less like a blatant predictability than like a secret that the reader holds with two of the main characters - and the suspense remained in 'when will it be revealed?" "will it ever be revealed?" "does it need to be revealed?" "can they keep this a secret to the end?"Just a couple of the many reasons I loved this book?
This all changed dramatically at about the 60% mark.Rose and Helen are sisters-in-law living in the same Brooklyn brownstone.
She comes to their rescue and they each delivery a healthy baby; Helen’s 5th and Roses 4th.As time passes, the close friendship between Rose and Helen shifts to a relationship full of jealousy and resentment.
At the same time, I thought this was one of the most realistic aspects of the book as it demonstrated how two people can react so differently to the same set of circumstances.
At times I thought it was Rose’s character that made her behave in a way I didn’t care for.
Told over a period from the 1940’s to the 1970’s, this is an absorbing, intelligent story of two related families living in a brownstone in Brooklyn.
Although portions of the plot are somewhat predictable, that doesn’t detract in any way from the book.
Lynda Loigman has such richly developed characters that the reader quickly becomes emotionally involved with them and the unfolding of their lives.
Her understanding of families, and in this case, those that live and work in very close proximity, delves deeply into all the joy, conflict, love, and sorrow those relationships entail.
Thank you to St. Martin’s Press and NetGalley for an advance copy of this book.
4.5 stars. You know when you're reading a book and you don't want it to end? Yeah, this book was one of those times.
This is an impressive debut novel which focuses on that trickiest of subjects - complex family dynamics and relationships over a considerable period of time.
Helen and Rose are friends that share lives, bring up families and live in the same house.
They are married to two brothers who are in business together.After having a wonderful relationship, strains begin to appear between Helen and Rose due to decisions made.
Cultural norms of the day are captured beautifully, for example, gender roles.Loigman has a keen understanding of the complexities of individuals and the interactions in relationships.
I won this as a Goodreads GiveawayI enjoyed this character driven book. The story is set in 1950s Brooklyn. Two brothers and their families share a home. Abe and his wife Helen have all boys, and Mort and his wife Rose, all girls. They have babies on the same winter night, and the 2 become best of friends. I enjoyed the development of the characters, though it was hard to like Rose.I'm already hoping this debut author will have another book out soon.
I had to read 30 or so pages before it hooked me, but after that I could not put the book down.
The characters and the plot are well developed, and I did not want the story to end.The story begins in 1947 in Brooklyn and focuses on two brothers, Abe and Mort, and their families.
The women’s relationship is permanently altered based on a decision made that ends up impacting both families for many years to come.
What once was a wonderful living arrangement becomes strained and uncomfortable.Loigman carefully crafts the stories of the two women, the collapse of their relationship, and the impact this has on both families.
Their wives, Helen and Rose, are close friends until the night they both give birth to their youngest children.
Helen had four sons and desperately wanted a daughter.
Rose, with three daughters, hoped to give Mort the son he longed for.
The chapters are told from various perspectives, the husbands and wives as well as a couple of the children, and with each new voice, a little more about the family is revealed.
Each voice is distinct and well defined and I loved how everyone viewed the family so differently, creating a robust picture.A beautiful read that's both sad and up lifting.
While reading The Two-Family House, you may find yourself looking for other books that Lynda Cohen Loigman has written.
The Two-Family House features several voices...Rose and Helen of course, but also their husbands, Mort and Abe (respectively) and their daughters, Judith and Natalie (also respectively).
(And I wish I had been able to, but I had a busy week.) While I had a feeling I knew what had happened, I still wanted to keep reading to have my theory confirmed and also see what else was in store.
Lynda Cohen Loigman  delivers an impressive debut THE TWO-FAMILY HOUSE, a multi-generational exploration of two complex Brooklyn families, in a lovely Brownstone-- rich in history, character, and love.Two brothers, Mort and Abe buy a quaint Brooklyn brownstone.
Rose and Mort  have three daughters; however, he desires a son.
This night will change the course of their lives.Choices, family secrets, mystery,  intrigue, and strong emotions.
From 1947 to 1970, we hear from different perspectives of individual family members, giving readers an inside view to the character's thoughts and actions.From tragedy  and heartbreak to love and forgiveness.
