https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28948.Gimpel_the_Fool_and_Other_Stories
I adored Gimpel and found that he was no fool, but rather admirable in his ability to care for those around him, even children that weren't his own. I found his qualities to be endearing and the only fools were the ones who chose to treat him bad.
The work is profoundly American.
The stories were written in New York at a time when there were more Jews in the city than in Israel and more Yiddish speakers than there had ever been anywhere in the same place.
Singer wrote these sweet stories for his fellow New Yorkers who felt tremendous nostalgia for the Jewish communities that they had left behind.
"Gimpel the Fool" has all the delights you would find in "Fiddler on the Roof." The quality of the English text is superb.
This is a brilliant anthology brilliantly rendered into English.
It is a great American classic.
i liked it so much i named my dog after the author.
“Gimpel the Fool and Other Stories” was originally published in 1953, and contains ten short stories rife with Singer’s unique fictional voice – full of meditations on mortality, good, and evil, Jewish mythology, and an ability to communicate truths in the folksy, simple yet extraordinarily sophisticated way that characterizes these parabolic stories.
In the title story, and maybe one of the more endearing, Gimpel, a baker from Frampol, openly declares in the opening lines “I am Gimpel the Fool.
One night, a Spirit of Evil visits him in his sleep and tempts him to deceive the world in the same way that it continues to deceive him.
Something much more graceful is at work here, and Singer's wisdom comes through in the prose.Abba, the central character, teaches shoe-making to his eldest son:"Abba himself led the boy down into the cellar and showed him the formula for adding chemicals and various kinds of bark to the tanning fluid.
At the last moment the boy kissed his father's hand, and Abba called after him, into the darkness, "Good luck!
Don't forsake your religion!"The train pulled out, leaving a smell of smoke in Abba's nostrils and a ringing in his ears.
این کتاب داستان هایی از یک شهر خیالی و گروه شورای آن است. حال این روز هامون بد جور با طنز این کتاب گره خورده و بیشتر غمگین شدم.اعضای شورا فک میکنند که خیلی باهوشند و با راه حل های به خیال خودشان عالی فقط صورت مسئله را عوض می کنند.
Forse è proprio per questa sua capacità di lasciare lievemente spiazzati (perché questi racconti non scandalizzano in modo estremo), di lasciare un retrogusto dolceamaro alla storia che questa lettura merita un voto superiore alle tre stelle.Nonostante tutto, per quanto possano essere piacevoli, queste storie non mi hanno fatto provare quel trasporto che suscitano le storie veramente avvincenti, quindi credo di essermi ritrovato al cospetto di una lettura che lasci il lettore sulla linea di confine tra la piacevolezza della lettura e la quasi indifferenza posteriore alla chiusura del libro.
The story "Joy" in this book is unforgettable, rich with spiritual meaning, about a rabbi whose children die, who lives in despair without faith for many years.
I read it many years ago, decided to use the book this semester in teaching RS 310 Religion & Literature at California State University, Northridge.All the stories are fascinating puzzles, pieces of the human condition to ponder over and reflect upon.
Set in a small town in Poland...
The question asked so often in the early 1950s--"Can meaningful literature be written after this horror?
Can it be read?"--is answered in this book.
Gimpel the Fool made the reputation of Isaac Singer, however, it is a regular story about village fool.
I didn't read it very carefully.
But The Cafeteria is the best short story I've read so far.
It has all the elements I've considered valuable for modernists' literature.
Few people can read it in Yiddish, but the translation is one of the best!
Well, in this sense, Yiddish Literature needs a reviving!
For sure.
If I would call it the essence of Jewish Lit in stead of the state of Israel.
But past is the past, it cannot be lost, but it is the past.
Singer is just a great storyteller...these stories haven't aged much because they take place in some unknown time full of she-demons and dybbuks, where Satan is always trying to get you.
I can't get over this book.There's so much in it you have to dwell about it for months.
Ik kon me zelf enorm identificeren met het titelverhaal, waarin er schandelijk misbruik wordt gemaakt van de goedgelovige Gimpl, maar Gimpl zelf besluit er boven te staan: hij ziet geen nut in een leven waarin hij niet alles kan geloven.
In bijna alle verhalen in deze bundel speelt eten wel een rol, de gerechten worden duidelijk omschreven, maar de opsomming van schotels en pasteien en dranken in dit verhaal...
Bijna alle verhalen hebben er mee te maken dat personages spelen met het verlangen een deugdzaam leven te leiden, of juist met de verleiding om deugd te laten schieten.
Mystical, vivid and memorable - I.B. Singer's stories are gems, all of them. This is the second short story collection by him that I have read and am now looking forward to becoming acquainted with his novels too. I feel that this is an author whose work I will actively seek out and read in its entirety
This book was great.Very Jewish, in the best way, but also in the way that it would probably mostly only be appreciated by Jews or folks who are pretty familiar with Jewish storytelling.
Il fiero giornalista Israel che conduce una vita di spostamenti continui fino a morire di trombosi nel 1944, ed il fratello piccolo destinato a sopravvivergli, ed anno dopo anno arrivare a superarlo.Se penso che la terza sorella della famiglia Singer è Esther Kreitman, è facile immaginare come la famiglia sia per forza di cose un elemento centrale della scrittura di tutti e tre.La bella raccolta di racconti “Gimpel l’idiota” non fa eccezione, incentrandosi completamente sui rapporti umani ma anche sui rapporti divini.Il rapporto tra genitori e figli che cambia con il proseguire del secolo ventesimo, la pesante ma protettiva cappa delle tradizioni ebraiche in est Europa che sembra confliggere in modo sempre più aspro con le passioni e le aspirazioni all’autodeterminazione dei giovani, sono temi molto tipici della letteratura di quel tempo, ma non esauriscono il libro.
I enjoyed this collection of short stories, my first time to read Bashevis Singer. Published in the early 1950s, the stories mostly take place in small Jewish Polish villages during the interwar period, though one or two of them make reference to the Second World War. It is a world of rabbis, shoemakers, small town merchants, bums, cheating wives, imps, and devils. Reading this collection felt like a real throwback to a time and a place that no longer exists, and it is an interesting place to visit for a few hours.

a great set of timeless stories.
I thank the good timing of possessing some familiarity with Hebrew Bible before reading Isaac B.
These two sides of Jewish life — the biblical, terrifying and glorious under the presence of an all-powerful and wrathful God, the other quotidian, mundane and ignominious human living with devils and imps — come together in these stories.
Singer offered an aperture to another, even more remote, life of “otherness”, the Jewish town folks living in Poland.
The most imaginative stories come from viewpoints other than human, such as an imp or a devil who observes and manipulates humans through their various desires and faults.
This story is labeled as a parable, though I am not certain it fits that genre, I think perhaps it would be better as a fairy tale, as it requires a greater level of willingness to suspend disbelief.
I liked the writing and the layout of the story was good, but I did not like the protagonist.
His village is cruel to him, his wife uses him, and he cannot find a person, save perhaps the Rabbi, that expresses any willingness to show compassion or even friendship to him, and yet he chooses to believe.
Throughout the entirety of the short story I was hoping Gimpel would meet a deservedly painful end.
These well-told stories instantly plunge one into the shtetls of old Poland. Alas, the puritanical, superstitious, and socially constricted nature of that world is offered up without critique, or even comment, which I found unpleasant. By the end of the book I could really see why my grandparents renounced their religion and turned bolshevik.
Gimpel the Fool and Other Stories was an interesting foray into Singer's writing. With a heavy focus on Jewish traditions and folklore against a Polish backdrop, Singer focuses mainly on the "seven deadly sins," including gluttony, pride, and avarice. I'll need to think on the overall experience of reading his work, and will return with a fleshed-out review shortly.
I only bothered with Gimpel the Fool to be honest and it was a charming little story indeed. Better still was listening to its audio version in the quiet moments tonight. I do prefer ones which leave us with remembering a moral code or two to abide by..so if you're one such as I, yes, you will be pleasantly entertained.
Absolutely adored this! I adore Singer's writing! There was one story that I wasn't overly fond of but every single other one was fantastic. Talent just flows from each of the books I've read by Singer so far. I can't wait to read more!
Prvi put čitao kao srednjoškolac, sada još bolje leglo mada sam i tada uživao u ovoj knjizi.
I racconti di Singer sono fatti di demoni e dybbuk, di spettri, di uomini che perdono o sfidano la fede, di quella laconica ironia di fondo tipicamente ebraica; sono storie di un mondo fatto quasi completamente scomparire dalla Grande Distruzione, racconti in cui traspare il conflitto con Dio e in cui lo spettro del grande male che ha colpito l'Europa si manifesta nei sottintesi.
Sono storie di un mondo che non c'è più e di una cultura (e una lingua, lo yiddish) che è stata salvata anche da narratori come i Singer, Aleichem, Malamud che le hanno dato una dignità letteraria.
If you are expecting sweet folktales and beloved characters like those in Fiddler in the Roof, you will be disappointed . Instead, this collection is much more earthy. The devil and his minions narrate several of the stories. Mayhem, violence and deceit abound.Singer is a master of his craft, describing everything from the rags of a beggar to a sunset in prolific detail .if you have a keen interest in Eastern European Yiddish culture, warts and all, then this short story collection would appeal to you..
If you like "Winesburg, Ohio" I think you can also like this one. It has a modernist twist to itself, a bit of grotesqueness, and a lot of irony. I would suggest it to the readers who don't like to get all the information served on their plate, and prefer to self-explore.
I ran across Gimpel in a discussion on TV by a doctor who had been convicted of illegal opioid prescription. He described himself as Gimpel. When I read the story I thought the doctor was a fool, but not like Gimpel. OK story. Not a fan of this author.
Non immaginavo che fosse un insieme di racconti ebraici , alcuni mi sono piaciuti altri meno!
