https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/870455.The_Robber_Bridegroom
Think every fairytale you have ever read all mixed up into one in true southern style.
Eudora Welty's tale has elements of fairytale mixed with southern brand magical realism and just a touch of gothic to make this tale a page turning, fun read.
The memorable characters and these fairytale elements translated her story well into musical form, which I am now intrigued to see.
I read this as part of classics bingo and it happens to be a southern literary trail read in November.
I am reminded how I enjoy a well written southern tale and how to revisit Welty's collected writings in the year to come.
An odious stepmother, a throng of malicious bandits, an upright and loving father, a beautiful heroine and a charismatic and mysterious hero might appeal to some, but I was mostly drawn to the strange familiar to the stepmother, aptly named ‘Goat’ (you’ll see why if you read the story.) "Goat… came out through a hole in the door with his hair all matted up and the color of carrots, and his two eyes so crossed they looked like one.
Set before the American Revolution, Clement, a Southern planter who has done quite well for himself, returns home from selling his tobacco to the British and must spend a night in town before traveling to his rural farm the next day.
Sharing a bed with two other men, Clement finds himself beholden to one, Jamie Lockhart--a bandit though Clement doesn't know this--for saving his life from the third man who drunkenly tries to rob his bedmates during the night.
Clement goes home to his termagant second wife, Salome, and his daughter, Rosamond, quite beautiful, who was borne by his first wife.
This was a joy to read, like all of Welty's novels, although very different from her other books. It was written as a fairy tale, based on the Grimm tale of the Robber Bridegroom, but just for good measure she threw in a few elements of Cinderella, Snow White and The Seven Dwarfs and a couple of Mississippi tall tale characters. Beautiful language and her sly humor are also included, at no extra charge.
Instead, it is all of those - a completely reimagined folktale loosely based on an obscure 1800’s story of the same name by the Brothers Grimm:https://www.pitt.edu/~dash/grimm040.htmlEvery fairytale needs a wicked stepmother; a beautiful maiden; a ‘village idiot’; a goodhearted bandit; and a house in the deep, dark forest.
Welty spins each of these elements, along with traditional American folklore, into a unique, fun folktale of her own invention, with a thoroughly Southern twist.
Of course, every authentic fairytale needs a fairytale ending, and Welty doesn’t let us down.This book was the ideal way to close out my month of ‘grim’ reads.
3 stars for the story and 5 for the writingEudora Welty has been on my TBR list for a while because of her reputation for writing gripping stories about the American South, so when I learned recently that she is the first living writer (at the time...sadly she is now deceased) to have her works published by the Library of America (of which I am a huge fan) it only piqued my interest further.The Robber Bridegroom happens to be the first story in a Library of America publication of her complete novels; however, it was not what I had expected.
I'm thinking this book will most appeal to fans of the Grimm Brothers, the adult fairy tale, and/or writers like Gaiman.
Ugh......Eudora Welty's reinterpretation of a Grimms fairytale which she wrote in 1943 and does not translate to modern times well. I am NOT a Welty fanso no surprise here-- I hated it just as much as expected. Luckily it cost me $2.85.Read for November 2018 OTSLT Club
The Robber Bridegroom is a southern inspired retelling of a Brothers Grimm fairy tale. Set along the Natchez trace, three shady men, Jamie Lockhart, Clement Musgrove, and Mink Fink meet along their respective trails. Enter Musgrove's beautiful daughter Rosamund and her ugly stepmother Salome. One tells lies and the other plots the daughter's demise. This was a cute, quick story and the first time I have read Welty. I'll likely check out some of her longer novels.
A reworking of the Grimm's fairytale by the same name, here it is set in Mississippi and mingles with folk tales (Mike Fink and the Harp Brothers) from the region. In this way it manages to feel like a fairy tale, and yet distinctly southern, and, specifically, Welty's own.A quick read, exceptionally well written, a fine piece of southern gothic folk telling. As with the other Welty book I've read to this point (The Optimist's Daughter) this was compulsively readable.
After reading the fabulous correspondence between Welty and William Maxwell, I sought out a couple of her volumes from my personal collection, and spent a morning with The Robber Bridegroom.
In fact, the novel (novella?) begins almost like a bedtime story, in that it is set in a place far, far away some centuries past, and the narrative voice is lilting and lovely.
The Robber Bridegroom is one of the most inventive and original novels which I believe I have ever read.
Welty has such a hold over her characters and settings, and everything is beautifully evoked.
I am often bored by fairy tales and especially modern (I consider 1942 to be modern)books or stories that desire to be fairy tales but this particular tale did not bore me in the least. It might have been its sense of humor or its garishness (like a literary Uncle Pecos Bunyan). But most probably it was because of its many wonderful turns of phrase, like Welty wished to drop our lovely tongue down a rabbit hole or shove it through a mirror.
Wildly farcical fairy tale. Talk about the reader being required to suspend disbelief -- the reader of this Eudora Welty novel needs to do that before reading even the first page. Clement Musgrove, daughter Rosamund, wicked step mom Salome, horse-riding bandit, Jamie Lockhart. The tale is so exaggerated that if the book weren't under 200 pages I may not have made it through.
Innocent rich man Clement Musgrove meets bandit Jamie Lockhart one night in an inn on the shores of the Mississippi.
Jamie is affected by the man’s trust enough not to steal from him, but he does seduce the planter’s beautiful daughter, unbeknownst to either of them.
And there is a third witness to their meeting, who will live to invade their lives again.With a wicked stepmother added to the cast list, and mistaken identities a-plenty, this is a rollicking fairy tale for the American south with hints of feminism, witchcraft, and treachery adding to the mix.
It was a lovely tale that made me smile over and over again.

Beautiful prose but so relentlessly upbeat, even cute, it made me cringe. No wonder it became a musical. Some great passages, though, especially the beginning bedroom scene, with characters reminiscent of Cuchulain.
I heard of this book through the DVD commentary of the film "Candy," with Heath Ledger and Abbie Cornish.
The writer planted The Robber Bridegroom on Ledger's character's nightstand, which I never would have noticed on my own.
The film mention piqued my curiosity, and honestly I'm amazed that I hadn't read any Eudora Welty up till now.The novel is loosely inspired by the German fairytale collected by the Brothers Grimm and contains all the classic elements of great storytelling - mistaken identities, larger-than-life characters, a cruel and jealous stepmother, beauty and horror, sex and violence.
Together with the bravura, the myth, and the folk history, "The Robber Bridegroom" is marked by gimlet-eyed toughness in a story replete with greed, violence, rape, and ignorance.The main protagonist of the novel, Jamie Lockhart, is a double-sided figure, a dashing New Orleans businessman on one hand and a thief and killer in the woods on the other hand.
As Welty says, "he was an innocent of the wilderness, and a planter of Rodney's Landing, and this was his good." Clement reconciles with Rosamond and Lockhart, but (Salome gets killed in the course of the story) he declines their invitation to stay in New Orleans with them.
My motivation for reading The Robber Bridegroom was because my GoodsReads group was discussing it. I found I didn't warm to it. All the way through, it seemed to me that Ms. Welty was seeing if she could write a folk tale. The book seemed to me like an exercise, as though she'd given herself a class assignment. Toward the end, I got the impression that she ad forgotten to add Native Americans, so threw in a tribe for good measure. Not my favorite book.
Taking plot lines and characters from the best of folktales and southern literature, Eudora Welty creates an enchanting novel. I had never read any Welty before I read this novel as a senior in high school. I quickly found that she truly captures the strange and often unbelievable qualities of the south.While it is certainly not her most famous work, I think that this is a good starting point for anyone who wants to begin reading one of the queens of southern literature.
This is more of a novella than a novel. It is written in the style of a fairy tale with stock characters: innocent daughter, oblivious father, evil stepmother, deceitful stranger; but it also exhibits the humorous aspects of the American tall tale - in fact Mike Fink is a character. Her descriptions of the swamps and the forest are precise, but I did not find anything particularly humorous, entertaining, or remarkable. It is the first novel I have read by Welty; it may be the last.
"... he spoke as kind and sweet words as anyone ever could between the hours of sunset and sunrise.""... the heart cannot live without something to sorrow and be curious over."
what is this I just read? I wished I'd paid attention in Ms Golson's (HA!) class!
A more modern take on a gruesome Grim fairy tale,with romance and tall tale Americans thrown in for good measure. This was much more fun that I expected.
Entre Blanche-Neige et La belle et la bête, ne connaissant pas le conte originel dont est tirée cette histoire, je ne peux que brosser très grossièrement cette comparaison.
Le style imite la trame narrative des contes traditionnels avec des répétitions de tournures, une ritournelle, des figures emblématiques pour ne pas dire caricaturales du conte très peu détournées.
C'est sans doute ce brin de folie qui a manqué à cette histoire, un peu trop proche du modèle pour être originale et mériter que je m'en souvienne davantage que comme un bon moment de lecture détente.
It doesn’t wear its age well in places, and I think some readers would find the central love story more disturbing than romantic.The musical does a better version of both playing up the humor of the story and doing away with some of the more disturbing details of the novella.
From that standpoint, it’s entertaining.But both versions overly rely on the poor hapless idiot married to a shrew wife.
While that can be funny, for this reader at least, it fell surprisingly flat.I really thought I’d like these more than I did.
From the opening scene where a merchant, a robber and a murderer share a bed together, this complicated romance of the merchant's daughter just gallops along with the wind in it's hair. The book is barrelful of cutthroats, and everyone is fooling someone by pretending to be somebody else. This is how fairy tales should be told in the modern age, and you'll find a romance is incomplete without a talking head in a box and a boy that's a goat.
Challenge: Novellas in November - This sixth novella is the first I have read of this author and don't know what to make of it but glad to have read it just for the experience. It was the chosen read by the Cherry Cola Book Club in the third installment of the series, "The Wedding Circle". Very much a 'grim' fairy tale representing a time before its publication of 1942. The woodcut illustrations in this edition are noteworthy.
Avant de m'attaquer à son anthologie de nouvelles, je découvre le premier livre d'Eudora Welty, sorte de fable - inclassable .. difficile d'en parler. Si j'ai aimé l'écriture, j'ai moins accroché avec l'histoire, d'où ma note.
Not sure what to think. It kind of felt like Snow White meets Mike Fink, with the Indians from Peter Pan thrown in. Written in old fairytale style, it was a quick spinning read. I did like the ending, but it was quite the trip getting there.
Une adaptation assez chouette de Blanche-Neige dans le Mississippi de 1850, encore un bon choix Kube donc. Comme toujours dans ce genre de cas, la naïveté sans borne des personnages fait que je ne peux pas apprécier totalement, mais l'écriture m'a beaucoup plu !
