https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15775022-the-crisis-of-the-european-mind
Isn't it true that we've kept what we've found useful, forgotten the rest, and moved into a world inhabited with our own views and discoveries?
But when things come around again that were stated, discussed and debated long years ago, it can be crucially important to have some idea what the argument was about all those years ago, and why the conclusions that formed the modern world were made..
It was also the time of the Comte de Boulainvilliers, who said that that the Jews and Muslims had their own individual sources of wisdom and were not inferior to Christians, but also of Jacques-Bénigne Bossuet, who was for a time close friends with the playwright Fenelon, but still preached the power of an absolute Catholic monarchy as a bulwark against the Protestant hordes.Hazard's book is not easy to summarize, and it is possible to approach it in only the most expansive terms.
But in terms of art, this was a time where he thought all of Europe rested on its laurels.
Majestic work of intellectual history - large in scope, erudite, brilliantly written.
We can almost feel the joy of victory of the modern ideas while reading.
Saying this, the book should be supplemented with some social history of Europe during the period.
Otherwise it rather feels like the ideas in it are in the air - it is clear which intellectual developments took place, but unclear why some rather than other won and what was the context.
Another issue is that the author is clearly in love with modernity and perhaps somewhat idealizes it.
I came across this book while reading a review of another book on the Enlightenment called The Enlightenment: And Why It Still Matters by Anthony Pagden.
The review was by John Gray and it was called The Virgin Birth and other myths.
He bashes the book (no surprise there) as a piece of propaganda by someone who doesn't truly understand how the enlightenment came about and sees it pretty much as a miracle, hence the title of the review.
As a counterexample, Gray mentions this very book and how it traces the evolution of the different strands of ideas from the times preceding the Enlightenment.
لطالما كان هذا الكتاب مصاحبا لي على الدوام ، عثرت عليه مترجما ترجمة رصينة ورائعة للدكتور يوسف عاصي ص
I found the second half of the book much harder to follow than the first half. I do feel, like another reviewer said, that it is hard to tell when Hazard is speaking for himself and when he's speaking for another writer. The edition I have (an older one) also doesn't distinguish very well between quotes and text with an ever-so-slightly smaller text for quotes. If there's no footnote at the end, it can be difficult to tell. Strangely, they also didn't translate Latin quotes though they translated French quotes.
This book looks at the ground work that was necessary for Western Europeans, principally British, French and Germans to shake the neo-classical thought and make the West ready for the Enlightenment.
Once a crack is put into the facade the wall starts to open up.Pierre Bayle (my most favorite character from the Enlightenment) knows how to write a footnote in his Dictionary.
Let us not build walls to separate us but lets understand what others have to give.Spinoza and to a lesser degree Hobbes are written about and thought about and are expanded upon and refuted by the thinkers mentioned in this book.
Summarizing this work would be like summarizing a classic novel: you might capture the highlights, but will not convey the rich details and textures of the telling.
In brief, one might say that according to Hazard, the early modern period was characterized by a new and welcoming attitude toward change and diversity, though its thinkers tried to find equanimity in Roman classical philosophy.
Hazard draws compelling sketches of the principal movers tangled up in this search for a new equilibrium, and paints in both broad and fine strokes at once.
Masterful work by a man whose knowledge (of this period at least) had distant limits.
The author's theory is that much of the thought that led to the decline of monarchies, the revolutions and the rise of democracy came from the philosophical debates and writings during this period of European history.
The author does an exhaustive literature search of European thought during this time period,reviewing works by DesCartes, Liebnitz, Spinoza, Bayle, Locke, Newton, Bossuet, Fenelon and others, to prove his hypothesis.
An admirable piece of work.
The only negative is that, at times, it's difficult to tell when the author is expounding his own ideas rather than that of the writer he is discussing.
Hazard has a very low opinion of "material conditions" and argues instead that ideas are the engines that turn history-- an idea which I was once fond of, but now am rather skeptical of. In any case, few historians today would write like Hazard, with his Voltairean flair and quite obvious bias (in favor of the enlightenment). Of course, few historians today could also digest so much information, handle with equal facility primary sources in a half-dozen languages, and present the imbroglios of the past with such clarity and panache.
Rightly revered.
Hazard loves what he loves and hates what he hates.
A sampling of both:On Vico: "He loves disentangling a thread of truth from a skein of error, and then, holding it up for all to see, cries, ''Tis I did it, Giambattista Vico!' There is no suggestion of classical restraint about him; fiery, intense, to an almost insane degree, he is the very personification of the Soul Unsatisfied."On opera: "Precisely; opera was absurd, but opera caught on.
That was a fact, and there was no getting away from it.
How the social elite of Western Europe was seduced away from a biblically-centered worldview for the mindset of modern science. How France was led from the Catholic Bossuet to the free-thinking Voltaire. First two-thirds of this are fascinating and essential, but the interest of the author is so skewed to the humanities that the scientific revolution itself receives a short shrift. Newton is skipped over in a few pages, while the last third of the book is dedicated to theatrical and poetic shifts of much lesser importance.
This would be excusable if European Mind were written in the nineteenth century, but considering this was 1935, you honestly feel embarrassed for him and how he laps up the Enlightenment progress narrative.
This is even more incriminating considering Hazard is articulating (I'm not sure whether he was an original formulator or merely a parrot) of the rise of Enlightenment reason/freedom/progress/tolerance circlejerk narrative that has been widely circulated in pedagogical settings since.The most troubling aspect of this book is how carelessly and dismissively he marginalizes various characters in the intellectual discourse of the time.
While some in vain still tried to unite a fragmented Europe once again under the banner of Christianity, some fully (and rashly) embraced this new attitude towards life, where men could be gods...Hazard's allergic reading of this pseudo-classicism from 1680-1715 is an interesting and welcome point of view for this reader, as Hazard himself is undoubtedly a classicist, a traditionalist, and the temptation to make this book nothing more than a lamentation of some sort of European Golden Age runs thick—I was expecting some such screed upon how 'Europe lost its way' at many points throughout the work.
Hazard was obviously a gifted historian with a passion for his subject matter.
What made this account of the Enlightenment just so-so wasn't Hazard's ability to marshal sources or display understanding, but, it seemed to me, the accounts in TCotEM were way over-controlled.
A history like this is selective by definition -- so rich in number are the source texts!
-- but during my reading it seemed obvious Hazard's hand was always behind the curtain trying to do some cute thing.
If you happen to be a superfan of the Enlightenment you may enjoy TCotEM for its interesting points here and there.
This is not an easy read but it is a rewarding one that draws from obscurity a range of thinkers from the period successfully linking the renaissance with the enlightenment. The argument that it was an evolutionary change is a convincing one and the depth of reference is impressive. The writing style is what makes it a tricky read, although the translation may will be to blame. That said, it is a book that pays endurance and is worth persevering with.
The elliptical manner in which this was written has frustrated my repeated attempts to pull anything meaningful from the text.
..uno straordinario classico della letteratura storiografica del primo Novecento. Oggi nessuno storico potrebbe permettersi di scrivere come Hazard (purtroppo)e si possono criticare molte delle sue pagine, ma come tutti i classici, non può passare di moda, difetti compresi.La "crisi della coscienza europea" è sempre dietro l'angolo (e anche davanti)e sapere che quella recente non è la prima dà speranza nel futuro.[audiolibro]
Interesting, but his organization is off. Many times I felt he went off on a tangent, but it connected not at all between the paragraph before or after. Due to the large period of time (for me at least) maybe, I never got a feel for the larger point Hazard was trying to make. Maybe they don't try to say anything larger in history books (first I've read outside a class and from cover to cover) or possibly I missed it. It just felt like something vital was missing.
Éste y Los grandes textos políticos de Chevalier, leído casi sin entender a los 16 años y vuelto a ver a los 21, fue el inicio de una comprensión histórica necesaria para todo el conocimiento que, gracias a Dios, ayudó a ubicar en mi cabeza con el correr de los años. Entregados por mi papá que fue profesor de Historia.
It is a very interesting book, very rich in information and, at times, nicely written. I suppose it reads better in French. A must for the reader of intellectual history, of course, but challenging for the untrained minds, like mine. Had to abandon with the promise to return soon.
Lord, I may never finish this. It is a fascinating and heady intellectual history well worth the effort, though.
