https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1881657.Seven_Footprints_to_Satan
They found Satan in the suburbs of New York City, Long Island, to be exact.
You reply on the street, that's not news, the Devil manipulates the Stock Market, again, give me something I haven't heard before.
But Mr.Kirkham, unwisely invested all his profits, so difficult to obtain, almost losing his life, numerous times, on the New York Stock Market.
Kirkham even starts to believe, this man is really the fallen angel, while falling in love with Eve, Satan's future bride .
The favorite game of the malignant Satan, with a large, thrill seeking, bizarre audience, present, is from the legend of Lord Buddha.
Indeed, although "Footprints" first appeared in "Argosy" magazine in 1927, and in book form the following year, it almost reads as if it had come from the pages of one of the crime pulps, such as "Black Mask" or "Crack Detective Stories." In this fast-moving tale, we meet James Kirkham, an adventurer/explorer (and, with a name like that, future candidate for Star Fleet Academy!) who is kidnapped off the streets of downtown Manhattan by the minions of Satan, a crime lord/supervillain/evil genius.
A bit like a combination of Fu Manchu and Indiana Jones.
But a much much less racist version of Fu Manchu.
The seven footprints of the title are a wonderful idea – they’re the footsteps of the infant Buddha, some of which were turned to evil, and they form the centrepiece of a cruel but ingenious game by which Satan’s victims can escape his clutches, or become his servants forever.
The book combines suspense and romance, and packs an enormous amount of fun into a mere 224 pages.
This is the third book of Merritt’s that I’ve read, and they’re all sparkling entertainment.
Every single story climaxes around some magnificent set piece and then obliterates itself in cataclysm, usually with the hero and heroine/love-interest barely escaping the conflagration.
And usually well before that the hero is forced to be witness to some other over-the-top elaborate set piece spectacle.Which is weird, in this case, because the best part is not the final conflagration but in the tense, quiet introduction as Kirkham is delicately captured and brought to Satan.
This is not by force or guile--though Kirkham pointedly asks why he didn't just receive a badly-needed job offer instead--but by a combination of careful planning, impersonation, and manipulation of witnesses.
The second round with A. Merritt presents some interesting parallels. It's the story of an explorer who is kidnapped to a massive estate by a villain called Satan who controls powerful people by forcing them to gamble with him in a sort of a weird gameshow. Our hero tries to bide his time and pretend to go along with Satan's plan while becoming obsessed with a woman who aided in his kidnapping. It's like the 60s “The Saint” movie “The Fiction Makers” crossed with “The Running Man” (film, not bo
In “The Blind Spot” the book almost stopped dead because a Scotch character showed up with long blocks of apostrophe-filled dialogue, Merritt's earlier “The Moon Pool” did something similar with a bombastically Irish character, and now here in “Seven Footprints to Satan” we have Barker, a character who yacks in a deeply defined cockney accent.
The book had my full attention, but every time Barker started talking I wanted to put it down.
For my money, Merritt pulled it off just fine, but I'm knocking off points for Barker's dialogue.
In addition to the requisite pulp elements (an incredible chemist, a light-haired and shapely love interest in the clutches of the ultimate bad guy, a handy ally rescued earlier in the protagonist’s career, one or more disillusioned followers of the ultimate bad guy, intricate plans, mysterious contraptions, and a fortress filled with fabulous wealth and intricate passages), this novel adds some interesting ethical dilemmas.
In order to save himself, Kirkham has to decided (like a good spy) how far he can become enmeshed in Satan’s plans without causing more harm and havoc than he can accept.Some of the lines I enjoyed in this novel include one in which the ideas of courage and what it means to be human were described.

I love Merritt's scenery chewing histrionics. His books are like popcorn for my brain. Junk food, but healthier junk food.
Merritt's Seven Footprints to Satan by tENTATIVELY, a cONVENIENCE - August 3, 2017 I have a vague memory of reading Merritt's name in association w/ H.
Sadly I realized that old Vanderbilt had been all wrong when he had said, "The public be damned." What he ought to have said was "The public be dumb." (p 22) Kirkham eventually meets his puppet-master adversary Satan (as the title has more or less already told you): "I began to glance about the dimly lighted room and realized that here, like the great hall, was another amazing treasure chamber.
Alguien llamado Satán, con mucho peso y esclavos. Se ayudo del engaño haciendo creer que es tal quien dice. Intimida a nuestro protagonista quien nos narra cómo es manipulado para que robe unas joyas. A él no le engaña y sabe que no es el diablo, pero sí que tiene a quien quiere
It would probably surprise some people to know that this odd little adventure novel is included on lists of "forbidden books" among occult groups, or that, along with "Nightmare Alley," it inspired some of the early lights in the Church of Satan.
My guess is that it is only "forbidden" because certain elements of the occult world don't want you to realize how much of their shtick is stolen lock, stock, and barrel from pulp fiction.The story concerns an Indiana Jones-type adventurer who is kidnapped (from the "Adventurers' Club," no less!) by an evil mastermind who calls himself Satan.
4 stars from Sandy: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
This is a fairly silly book, but when making allowances for the time and place (it's an oldie!) it's not exactly a bad read.
I don't think that's really a spoiler--you should be able to know your genre going in!(Note: 5 stars = amazing, wonderful, 4 = very good book, 3 = decent read, 2 = disappointing, 1 = awful, just awful.
I'm fairly good at picking for myself so end up with a lot of 4s).

The first book of the over 200 unread books scattered throughout the house.I gave this a two for effort and for some weirdness. Written in 1928 the author, Merritt, made tenuous connection between Buddhism and Satan. The numbers 3, 7, 21 play a significant role in the story. Early on the author tells the story of the birth of Siddhartha and how it relates. All in all though, miss this book if you have any other choices :)
Just my sort of thing, exciting pulp horror thriller. But, this is really well written. Only jarring note is the ropey cockney accent.
If he steps on one "evil" print, then he must perform one service of Satan's choosing.
If he steps on two "evil" prints, then he will owe Satan a year of service.
If he steps on all three "evil" prints, then he is Satan's to do with as he pleases--lifelong service, to kill in what ever horrible way he chooses, anything.
The story revolves around Kirkham's gamble and seeing how our hero will manage to escape from Satan and all his devoted servants.This was a fast-paced thriller that was easily read in single evening.
Nice to see that there are still discoveries (or better: rediscoveries) to be made.One of my favourite cinematic finds of last year was SEVEN FOOTPRINTS TO SATAN, one of the last, if not: THE last silent movie to be made, an incredibly fast paced production with a quasi-modern sensibility for its pulp fiction imagery:A would-be African explorer discovers that adventure is just a few steps away from his New York home when he together with his fiancee gets kidnapped and they are both forced to take part in black magic and satanic rituals in a vast mansion.The film is chockablock with pulpy tropes and imagery: dwarves and carney freaks, sliding doors and hidden traps, gorillas and half humans (fresh from an encounter with a certain Dr Moreau one would assume), hooded villains and whipped maidens, Fu Manchu style baddies and even a strangely deformed Dr Moriarty (who is actually one of the good guys) all meet up in a lusciously designed suburban residence surrounded by a wealthy elite celebrating satanic rituals.At times very Indiana Jones-y in feel and pacing, the eponymous Seven Footprints challenge alone is a masterpiece of stunning set design.
The character of Satan, and his network of top-secret super-criminal agents, reminded me a bit of G.K. Chesterton's Thursday, or Doctor Mabuse.It might seem like this adventure novel isn't really fantasy or science fiction, but I think at the time it was written things like elevators weren't so common and some of the other gadgets, for example sleeping gas, even less so.
There were covers with cartoonish depictions of Satan, others with pin-up girls whipped by demons (only hinted at in the novel), and the sober black cover of the edition I read (not the one pictured) that looked like a "how-to" manual for 1960s beginning Satanists.
Satan puts him to a test: he's got a game rigged up where there are seven steps from the floor of Satan's chamber to the top of this ziggurat-like thing.
The person playing can stop, voluntarily, after any number of steps.While in the custody of the big guy, Kirkham meets, and becomes enchanted with, the beautiful Eve, and the two of them try to hatch a plot to escape the clutches of the guy with the big trident, aided by an old friend of Kirkham's who just happens to have found himself in the same situation.Yup, it's sensational adventure-type stuff, easy reading, G.
Πολύ ενδιαφέρον βιβλίο, με μπόλικη περιπέτεια, ωραία ατμόσφαιρα, καλούς χαρακτήρες και μερικές ωραίες και κάπως τρομακτικές τελετές.
Φυσικά σαν ιστορία δείχνει λίγο τα χρονάκια της, όπως και η γραφή φυσικά, αλλά αυτό είναι και λίγο φυσιολογικό μιας και το βιβλίο γράφηκε πριν από 85 χρόνια περίπου!
Αλλά διαβάζεται πολύ εύκολα και γρήγορα και η ιστορία σε κάνει να ξεχνιέσαι.
Από τον Μέριτ έμεινα αρκετά ευχαριστημένος, ευτυχώς έχω όλα τα βιβλία του που έχουν μεταφραστεί στα ελληνικά, μιας και φαίνεται (και είναι) πολύ ενδιαφέρων συγγραφέας, αλλά όσον αφορά την ελληνική έκδοση, ναι μεν έμεινα ευχαριστημένος από την μετάφραση, αλλά παραξενεύτηκα κάπως από τα αρκετά έως πολλά τυπογραφικά λάθη.
I'd like to give this book 3 stars, but it doesn't quite rate (so pretend it's 2 and half stars).The first few chapters are outstanding; they hook you in to this mystery-driven tale.
The hero fits the mold of Indiana Jones (though written some 60 years earlier.) I could easily see this being made into a great film today, like the upcoming Agent 13 movie.Satan is the name of the underworld kingpin who has snared the archeologist protagonist into doing his dirty work.
And one of the mysteries of the book is discovering if "Satan" is the real Devil after all.
This is an excellent pulp mystery-adventure novel. The master criminal (who goes by the name of Satan but is not a supernatural being really) is original and well-depicted. One reviewer said merritt made this fantastic tale strangely beleivable and I concur.
Creepy. Very, very creepy. As in no hope creepy.
An engrossing tale about Satan who doesn't exactly live in hell.
Read this back in the seventies.
Excellent pulp era story by a writer mostly forgotten today. Very good read and great characters. Very recommended
Got this at the now gone occult bookstore "Germ" in Philly, first printed in 1928. A scary tale about a man being tricked into Satan's abode. Horrific and hard to put down, totally worth the read.
Not very enjoyable, although genuinely startling ending.
Livre d'horreur fantastique de série "B" comme aurait pu tourné dans un studio d'Angleterre où tous les premiers Dracula ont été filmés.
