https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28676.American_Psycho
the shit's backwards, yo.to be totally honest, i have a hard time seeing how one views (as so many do) american psycho as 'woman hating' or 'anti-woman' or 'anti-feminist' -- i suspect that easton ellis is so good at what he does, his depiction of violence so visceral, excessive, and demented that it literally pushes people to a point in which they must either reduce the book to a 'commentary on society and consumerism and capitalism' (ugh) or to the point at which the excess drowns out any point easton ellis imagines he's making.and then there's a complaint best made by David Foster Wallace:"I think it's a kind of black cynicism about today's world that Ellis and certain others depend on for their readership.
Now, I've read a lot of horror and seen my share of movie gore and while I don't enjoy “slasher” movies (or torture porn novels) I certainly have been able to deal with some very brutal images and scenes in the context of a what I read and watch.
I had read reviews that the murder scenes were graphic and I was like “thanks for the warning but I should be okay.” Well I want to say again:BE WARNED, it is about as disturbing as you can imagine.
In the course of the book, he murders a homeless man, a colleague, and numerous prostitutes, all with less emotion than he bestows upon his hair gel.Ellis slyly balances the relative passion with which Bateman might discuss Huey Lewis in one chapter with a dispassionate yet detailed and horrific play-by-play of rape and dismemberment in the next.The banality and sly humor (Bateman's analysis of Whitney Huston is both disturbingly off-kilter and hilarious) of the early non-violent passages of the book make the murders all the more jarring to the senses when they start coming thick and fast at the end, and black humor gives way to an out-and-out brutality the likes of which have not been touched in any other book I've ever read.At first glance, it seems as though it is the juxtaposition of the banal and the brutal that make American Psycho shocking.
(another update incorporating comments about BEE's latest novel - apparently he's still at it!)Before we start - a quote by Norman Mailer about Bret Easton Ellis : "How one wishes this writer was without talent!"*********People think the pages and pages of descriptions of hacking and chopping up women are ironic.
People who like this book should ask themselves why they want to read pages and pages of descriptions of hacking and chopping up women (with the occasional man thrown in, but all the lavish descriptions with rats and nail guns and so on are just for the ladies).
He is so wholly devoid of morality, completely disconnected from reality and human emotion, and obsessed with things, reeling off designer name after designer name, presenting what could be seen as Ellis' criticism of modern society and consumerism.Not shocking fact #2: This book is extremely graphic and violent.Well, it is a book about a serial killer; I didn't expect flowers and happiness.
and that's all it is - just some thoughts about a book i haven't read in years, but remember really liking and feel, for some reason, compelled to defend.
from a reader's perspective, it is amazing that a book was able to give me such a visceral reaction.from a writer's perspective - honestly at that point in the narrative, it was the only thing he could do to show bateman's escalation.
it's not a new story, but i like the way ellis tells it the best.and it is more than 50 pages of chopping girls up.
I live on an island of bankers, investment brokers and trust company lawyers and all of them are drunken, mad psychopaths with Jack Nicholson laughs and a propensity for getting into a lot of trouble at weekends.They drink and they snort and they screw and they sail and they make loads of money and every now and again some of them disappear never to be heard of again.
YOU decide!(view spoiler)[The investment bankers from the Swiss VP Bank were by far the worst.
(hide spoiler)] I used to enjoy all that.
(hide spoiler)]Oh, book review.
“...there is an idea of a Patrick Bateman, some kind of abstraction, but there is no real me, only an entity, something illusory, and though I can hide my cold gaze and you can shake my hand and feel flesh gripping yours and maybe you can even sense our lifestyles are probably comparable: I simply am not there.” Nobody knows him.
It’s an immensely clever book and though the narrative does become dry and repetitive, it was totally necessary to show the mind of a psychopath and his fixations.“All it comes down to is this: I feel like shit but look great.”That being said though, I found myself struggling to read it.
It’s an intense book and it could leave you feeling rather shit.
Problem #1: American Psycho.It's funny how many people qualify their glowing reviews of this book with the words 'I didn't enjoy it but...,' as if it contained some bitter but necessary medicine.
Well I'm sorry, but the only important thing about American Psycho is that it illustrates - by its existence, by its success - something deeply wrong with the society that gave birth to it.
One reviewer points out that the uproar over American Psycho is ridiculous given the number of malevolent, misogynistic slasher films on constant display in our culture, and to an extent I agree.
Loved this book. One to give me a book hangover. Didn't want it to end.Always loved the film and the book is really not far off. Descriptions were OTT.Dark Masterpiece Love the scene with the business cards. Both film & book.
That entails more than murder, which a lot of people reviewing this book completely miss.
Anyways, the entire book is written from Patrick Bateman's point of view, and Patrick Bateman is a materialistic vain insecure obsessive compulsive hallucinating (yeah, mysogynistic i guess)delusional psychopath.
I would read this book at the park, or on the bus, and when I'd put it down to join the rest of the human world it was almost impossible.
For a good 10 minutes I'd just be staring at people feeling a million miles away.You don't skip over the bits about his facial creams, you absorb it and afterwards let your jaw drop that he is more passionate about it than any human life, or feeling.
READ the book.
Not because of how disturbing it was (although I did find that mostly entertaining), but because I've never laughed out loud so much whilst reading a book.I LOVED getting inside Bateman's head, a true glimpse into the mind of a psychopath.
Although he did get one of his quotes wrong, attributing a quote by Ed Kemper to Ed Gein - easily done I guess *shrugs*I can understand why the repetitive nature of this book would be annoying for some - Bateman's life is basically a cycle of brutal murders/torture followed by him and his fellow investment bankers trying to decide where to make reservations for that night - but ultimately I found it strangely captivating.
**4.5"THE MOST FUCKED UP STORY EVVVVEEERRRRR" STARS**  Are you easily offended?  Do not read this book.Are you easily frightened? Do not read this review.Are you easily annoyed?  Do not read about this asshole .Are you easily sickened? Do not read horrific tale.Are you easily dizzied? Do not read anything.  Honestly, I have not idea why I enjoyed this materialistic, self centered, psychotic story, but GOD HELP ME, I DID. The only reason I decided to read the damn book is because I noticed it wa
Do not read this book.Are you easily frightened?
Do not read this review.Are you easily annoyed?
Do not read about this asshole .Are you easily sickened?
Do not read horrific tale.Are you easily dizzied?
Honestly, I have not idea why I enjoyed this materialistic, self centered, psychotic story, but GOD HELP ME, I DID.
When I first started reading, I was completely baffled as all the story entailed was Patricks self centered life, filled with his self absorbed unlikeable friends doing absolutely nothing worthwhile.
For more reviews, Free E-books and Giveaways
See Pat date.See Pat screw.See Pat mace.See Pat use a nail gun.See Pat eat flesh.See Pat do obscene things with a severed head.See Pat store body parts in random places.Go, Pat, go!  1.5 stars Don't worry. That's the tame version. I didn't spoil the extreme parts of the story. Trust me.It might be a long, long time before I read something which knocks American Psycho out of the top spot for "sickest thing I've ever witnessed," and I've read books which have had rape, murder, and gore aplenty i
I actually liked the movie because it carried the point from the story without being quite as tedious or gruesome.Part of me wanted to spoiler-tag a couple of the more gruesome scenes, just to give readers who were curious something to look at.
But I can't overcome the fact that I hated reading the repetitive formula of : character talks about meaningless shit, character talks about or participates in unappealing (and super-extreme) sex, then character makes a gruesome kill.The end of the story gave the reader nothing to wrap up the madness of it all.The guy was a psycho.
No ahonda en lo esencial de la existencia humana; ignora lo que nos hace, a pesar de todo, personas.En este trabajo, Ellis apunta a esa idiosincrasia, a los lectores que son testigos o pertinentes a la sociedad que él desprecia.
Ellis nos dice que el mundo en el que vivimos es ruin, una riña constante de quién luce más refinado.
Con esto quiero decir que American Psycho no nos hace mejorar, únicamente ironiza sobre el consumismo y el ensimismamiento personal que ya conocemos.
Una obra que no se aventure más allá de lo sabido no debería trascender.
The second is as a hideously misogynist extended fantasy about the abuse, torture and murder of women.
The titular psycho, protagonist and narrator, Patrick Bateman, is undoubtedly a horrifically misogynist character - both in terms of the hideous things he does to women and in the minute details of the ways in which he perceives and judges them.
I loathe gratuitous violence and 'torture porn' films but while the violent scenes in this book are arguably unnecessary in their detail, they are contained within the context of a viciously intelligent satire.
Actual rating: 2 🌟'sI think Bret Easton Ellis described his own book the best in 1991, when he said:"...I wrote a book that is all surface action: no narrative, no characters to latch onto, flat, endlessly repetitive."He certainly did do that.
However, I personally appreciate well-developed characters and a good plot even more, so this book just wasn't for me.At the end, I felt like nothing had happened, even though so much had happened??
So again, the purpose of the author was definitely fulfilled; it just wasn't the kind of book I enjoy reading.
Patrick Bateman and his "friends" are a pack of egotistical and extremely self-centered pricks.
Bateman is a case where he in discriminately looks down upon everyone that is not him.
I will warn you eager readers, this book is EXTREMELY graphic not just in gore but also with the sex scenes.
That's how sickening it is.With all of that aside the book is rather a boring read.
However I wouldn't really recommend this book because of the extremely graphic scenes and apparently obvious tendency to piss people off for one reason or another.You can also watch my review of this book on YouTube here:https://youtu.be/a1WwzH-O9GM
Well, firstly I will just comment on the violence in this novel and say that it contains some of the most graphic torture and killings that I have ever read about (both in the real and fictional world).
It goes without saying that 'American Psycho' is not for the faint-hearted.The story is told from the perspective of a wealthy investment banker named Patrick Bateman who lives on one of the most expensive and prestigious streets in New York City.
He can divide people into various categories and then insert them into novels in a way that makes them feel real.
I can barely reference the images of the real videos of "I Want a New Drug" or "If This Is It," but I can see a voracious rat about to eat a woman to death through her reproductive organs with stunning and disgusting clarity.It is not a pretty book, and the squeamish should stay away, but for anyone who seeks to be overwhelmed by images they will never forget, American Psycho is one of the greatest books ever written.*Beyond Ellis' power to evoke indelible images in my mind, horrific though they may be, there are depths in the story of Patrick Bateman that make it not just a great read but a nourishing read.Is there another book that so perfectly captures the eighties in the US or the Reagan/Thatcher world view as American Psycho?
this book is like that shitty, creepy video, except times 100.
Criminal had arty direction by an interesting director that i like, Mark Romanek.
American Psycho is also interesting: intelligent and stylishly written, with some "points" to make about consumer culture, class, and male egotism.
but i don't give a flying fuckeroo about interesting points or stylishness or intelligence when the vehicle you're using to express those points is one built on pure degradation and creepy self-indulgence.
you may be making your points but you are also making me sick.
And as all the controversy (if you can call the entire lit media deciding to hate the same book a "controversy") drove sales through the roof, the ultimate slap in the author's face was when the New York Times actually erased the book from its #1 position on the best seller list -- they just shoved it down the memory hole, in the interests of "taste and decency." Certainly this book had unique power to piss people off.
“I had all the characteristics of a human being—flesh, blood, skin, hair—but my depersonalization was so intense, had gone so deep, that my normal ability to feel compassion had been eradicated, the victim of a slow, purposeful erasure. I was simply imitating reality, a rough resemblance of a human being, with only a dim corner of my mind functioning.”  American Psycho is a masterfully accomplished, incredibly black satire, one which primarily focuses on consumerism, obsession with status and r
I was simply imitating reality, a rough resemblance of a human being, with only a dim corner of my mind functioning.” 
As you’re laughing about—or feeling nauseous over—the absurdities and generally batshit behavior of Bateman, whose name-brand name-dropping and thoroughly vacuous, meaningless existence are just as insane as his vicious brutality and cannibalistic culinary endeavors, what emerges is a distorted, exaggerated, grotesque funhouse mirror reflection of…yourself.
And as a satire on what living in such a state of affairs looks like, I think this book succeeded admirably: 
I've been putting off writing a review of this novel because I have so many conflicting emotions about it.
You know, kind of like Patrick Bateman's disordered thoughts.
2. Bret Easton Ellis, like him or not, is a masterful writer, and this is a masterful book.
Then realize that what Patrick Bateman has in store makes what you imagined look like a PG-13 horror movie.
5. Patrick Bateman is one of the most unique characters in all of fiction.
Several times I found myself writhing in bed in the desperate hope that a scene would Please.
Because the book knows exactly what it is.
I would write a review, but I have to go return some videotapes.*******************OK, I was gonna let the inside-joke above stand, but I guess I do feel like getting some thoughts down about America's Next Top Psycho.At this point I'm sure it bores everyone to dredge up the whole misogyny question again, but it still puzzles me that smart people who must certainly know not to confuse the character's perspective with the author's continue to pull the concern-troll card here.
That is the truly frightening thing about this book, moreso than any of the torture-porn scenes.Personally, I prefer the tragic simplicity of Ellis's Less Than Zero.
I don't think it's hard to make readers feel sick and disgusted.
Exercises in this sort of writing have to work hard not to feel juvenile and this one doesn't work at all.There is a lively ongoing debate over whether it's misogynistic or not, (just have a look at the comments to Paul Bryant's excellent review).
To me it seems self-evident that the book is misogynistic – but then there are a lot of excellent novels that are also misogynistic, so I'm not sure how far that gets you.
The scariest thing about this book for me is that since I finished reading it--almost eight years ago--I still look around when I am in a crowded place at the faces of the people and wonder: Which one of you thinks like Patrick Bateman? Which one of you is ready to snap? Perhaps these other faces think the same when they look at me...VERY HIGHLY RECOMMENDED
I'm not sure what to say about this book. It just wasn't for me. 👎🏻
(first review - will probably add another after a reread:)We meet Patrick Bateman (here again - he appears briefly on Rules Of Attraction; he also appears even more briefly in Ellis' later books, at least two of them), in the physical and professional peak(ish) of his life, fit, in a good age, doing well enough...
I need to reread the book to give a deeper review, and to mark it as I said above.
It just wasn't for me.May 26, 2013: I really dislike leaving a book unfinished so after some consideration and some gentle nudging from a GR friend, I decided to finish reading the book.
After reading the remaining chapters, my rating hasn't changed; I still dislike the book.
Yes, the title does clearly suggests psychotic events will be found in the book but I wasn't ready for the extreme graphic descriptions of brutality depicted.
They are honestly the most brutal I have ever read, and as I am a very squeamish person, there was no way I was ever going to enjoy this book.
I love 80s music and so I enjoyed those chapters a lot.
