https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144395.The_Three_Hostages
It bothers me a bit that Hannay and wife join in only because the third hostage is a little boy like their own son; thy're oddly callous about the plight of the a young man and woman in the hands of what is described as a most dastardly international gang, although to be fair, everyone is eventually rescued.
Much of the mid part of the novel is dedicated to Hannay pretending to be the hypnotised puppet of one of Buchan's most fascinating and complex villains yet, but it does make for a rather passive narrative apart from one or two excursions and a lot of off-stage derring-do by Hannay's wife and confederates.
And Buchan's terror of Jews, Bolsheviks and diverse Eastern mysticisms gets a little stale at this point.
This is the fourth book in the series and my favorite so far. The war is over and Hannay is trying to relax in the country when he is approached about three possibly related kidnappings. Several comrades of past adventures are also involved.
He must be planning to take over the world ✌✌✌..Richard Hannay sudah pingin pensiun dan hidup tenang dgn istrinya Mary dan anaknya yg msh kecil Peter John, tp dia dimintai tolong dgn kasus hilangnya tiga orang yg sama sekali tidak ada hubungan.
Setelah berembug kesana kesini dgn Sandy Arbuthnot, dibantu Greenslade, semua praduga menunjuk pada Dominick Medina yg cerdas, muda dan disukai semua orang.
Semua petunjuk mengarah padanya tp sulit untuk membuktikan bahwa Medina dalang dibalik semua penculikan itu.
Ngeri membayangkan membuat orang tunduk dgn hipnotis, mengambil jiwa mereka dan membuat mereka lupa dgn kehidupan yg dijalani sebelumnya...Kejahatan yg tidak tampak, subtle, halus justru yg paling menakutkan.

While a few aspects of this 4th installment in the Richard Hannay series show their age (this was first published in 1924), most of it is surprisingly still relevant. The use of propaganda to get fanatics or troubled youngsters to stir up trouble is something we can see today.The only thing that bothered me is the abruptness of the ending. I would have liked one or two more pages although in reality, there was nothing more that needed to be said.
Most of his works were published in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, and mighty dull they are, but there are some still in manuscript, and I had always the hope of discovering more, for I was positive that the real Michael Scott was something far bigger than the translator and commentator whom we know.
That proved that Medina was a student of Michael Scott, and showed me what was the bent of his mind."….Did you ever read the old Irish folk-lore?
There's little left for a man's imagination to play with, and our children will grow up in a dull, shrunken world.
Back in 2014 I rated this with three stars because, even for Buchan, it had so many bizarre riddles, coincidences, masquerades and an Iago-like motiveless malignity villain. Having just re-read it, I won't advance the book to four stars, but I appreciate it more and indulge in the whimsy. If you are new to Buchan do not begin with this one, but don't disdain to read it if you come to like Buchan's work as I do. It's fun in the grand context.
Much of the story is a series of chases, following various clues, during which Hannay is once again forced to work against the ordinary police to maintain his secrecy.
Even when he finds some of the hostages, they cannot be rescued immediately.
It is a time of misery for Hannay; unfortunately, it is also a time of misery for the reader.The story largely redeems itself in the last two chapters, which form a kind of long epilog during which Hannay and his nemesis come physically to grips in a Highland deer park.
The Three Hostages is the weakest of the Hannay stories, but still worth reading.
Buchan knows how to keep the reader on the edge of his seat as he reveals clues and as Hannay uses his wit and nerve to face down villains.
One man, kidnapped and brain-washed by the bad guy, is given a gun, one that he promises not to use, preferring to give his captor "the hiding of his life".
If this was a modern book, he'd push the guy down and laugh while he fell.But along with honor come funny moments.
In this book, Hannay makes several mentions of the bad guy's round head.
Imagining Hitchcock's Robert Donat imbuing (Sir) Richard Hannay with his special charm can't redeem much of the datedness of this.
And even allowing for the attitudes of the time, the views toward blacks, Jews and swarthy others on offer here are generally rather deplorable.
There is some fun to be had here, but Hannay is often the thickest person in the room and he gets help from absolutely everywhere in this adventure.
The stiff upper lip-ism of much of this has a kind of pleasant familiarity however and it might be fun to see the 70s BBC adaptation, just to see John Castle as the villainous Medina.
There is a convoluted plot concocted by an obscure villain; death defying chases across rugged countryside; a cast of supporting charcaters, some of whom will be familiar to readers of other Hannay adventures; and, inevitably, a successful conclusion.As with other books by John Buchan there is an element of casual racism which rears it's head from time to time, which some readers will find difficult to accept.
Personally I look at it as being part of the period in which the books were written.One distinguishing note is the fact that Hannay's wife plays a not insignificant role in this book whereas female characters have had little to do in other books by Buchan that I have read.On the whole this was a decent adventure story.
Another fantastic book in John Buchan's Richard Hannay series. This one has Hannay searching out three hostages that were taken captive by Dominik Medina, a man who believes he has the power of hypnosis and plans to use it to put himself into highest leadership. The story starts off fairly slow, but by the last several chapters, it's nearly non-stop action. Overall, a very fantastic read, as if you could expect any less from Buchan.
A, now Sir, Richard Hannay adventure but one more cerebral than his suspenseful, exciting The Thirty Nine Steps. As such the suspense is more drawn out and the best excitement comes towards the end when Hannay and his opponent face each other in the Scottish hills.
John Buchan wrote so well and his hero, Richard Hannay, a quintessential Englishman, is brave and clever although he doesn't see himself as such. This was a tension-filled and exciting story, set in the 1920s and Hannay is now married with a young son. Very entertaining.
Entirely preposterous and the views in it are so bizarre and antiquated. Enjoyable twaddle.
But more because in my view, it has a more ingenious plot with real puzzles satisfyingly resolved than, say, The Thirty-Nine Steps (which depends on a lot of running around and some extraordinary coincidences, plus an absolutely cracking title).
It also has, again in my view, Buchan's best villain and one of the great villains of all time, whose name I won't mention here for fear of spoiling the book for newcomers.The plot is thrilleresque but essentially a detective puzzle.
Buchan never exhausts a lot of time on villainous motivation and is most confident dealing with the clear-cut reasoning of war, with Germans as the villains.
I love Buchan's "Richard Hannay" series. Looking forward to reading the fifth book soon.
A nice easy read. Although the language can jar sometimes (racist and sexist language) the Richard Hanny stories remain good.
Good plot, spoilt by a few too many descriptions of Scottish crags!
A most enjoyable thriller cleverly plotted.
Mais je savais à présent que la beauté du monde dépend de celui qui le regarde.
This one features Richard Hannay, he of the '39 Steps', and is a similar type of boys own adventure story set amongst the upper elechons of British society shortly after the First World War.The basic story is at heart one of adventure and in that respect is a pretty decent one, especially the final show-down, which has all the ingredients you would expect from such a book.
Sir Richard Hannay 40s narrates, happy with Fosse Manor, wife Mary Lamington (both in Mr Standfast), son Peter John 15 months, until evil likable "fall under his charm at first sight" p 68 Dominick Medina early 30s wants to rule the world.
Hannay resists hypnotism (of blind gypsy mother?) to rescue 3 hidden hostages - David son of Sir Arthur Warcliff, Adela Victor fiancée of Marquis 'Turpin', horse racer Lord Mercot - all lost to hypnosis.
Lord Mercot escapes himself, yet they make him return for five weeks, until they find other hostages.
(view spoiler)[Hannay gives him a gun.
(hide spoiler)] His jailer Dr. Newhover might escape.
I think the two things which I found too hard to swallow was that although the police had enough information to break the criminal ring they did not seem to be aware of the mastermind's identity and why on earth would the criminal have given a poetic clue to the locations of the hostages.
This is another longish book though not quite as long as "Mr Standfast"Hannay traces two of the hostages though he needs his wife to trace the third.
In the final part of the book the villain stalks Hannay in Scotland and this was the part I found most enjoyable.
In the latest adventure, Richard Hannay wants nothing more than to settle down as a gentleman farmer, with his wife and son.
They have taken three prominant people hostage, a young lady, a lord and the son of an important man.
Hannay is led on a winding road through mysticism and the quest for power, before he finds the hostages in the most unlikely of places.This was a good story and the use of hypnotism was used brilliantly, if a bit fiendishly.
Yes, these stories are very un-PC now, but they can still be enjoyed.
Another good adventure to enjoy.
Buchan's work is fairly dated in terms of social attitudes (his comments on 'Communist Jews' and 'Levantines' are particularly uncomfortable given the interwar period, but it holds up well with only minor distraction.
He has a gift for weaving very unusual, memorable characters and situations that could be implausible with a less capable author into a unique tale.
There's a reason his books have endured long past many of his contemporaries.This story in particular takes a now-content and older Richard Hannay retired in the country into a kidnapping case involving especially clever and cruel criminals.


In this fourth Richard Hannay adventure, Hannay, his wife and other familiar faces come back from retirement to tackle an unpleasant case involving kidnapping, “vanished souls”, and plots for world domination. Unfortunately, the strongest parts of this book are the descriptions of the English and Scottish countryside, and the weakest parts are the adventure, which strangely mixes violence with good sportsmanship. There are also anti-Semitic remarks by the main characters that appear to reflect the author's own sentiments.
The writing is better than in The 39 Steps, and for a bit it really interested me and i was tempted to rate it higher. But then there was some really offensive racial stuff that kept cropping up repeatedly and was absolutely unnecessary to the story. I know it was a different time, but still I couldn't quite forgive it. Further, there were several lulls - very long, padded ones - that slowed things way down.
