https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/958674.The_Greeks
The Greeks, Humphrey Davy Findley KittoThe Greeks is a 1951 non-fiction book on classical Greece by University of Bristol professor and translator H. D. F. Kitto. The Greeks serves as an introduction to the whole range of life in ancient Greece and established Kitto as one of the foremost Grecian scholars of his time. Chapters: Introduction, The Formation of the Greek People, The Country, Homer, The Polis, Classical Greece: The Early Period, Classical Greece: The Fifth Century, The Greeks at War
The Greeks serves as an introduction to the whole range of life in ancient Greece and established Kitto as one of the foremost Grecian scholars of his time.
کیتو»؛ برگردان: «سیامک عاملی»؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر گفتار، 1370، در 437 صفحه، مصور، موضوع: یونان، تمدن، تاریخ، از آغاز تا 146 پیش از میلاد - سده 20 مکتابی ست سودمند، برای یادگیری تاریخ یونان باستان؛ اثری ست که از سال 1985 میلادی، کتاب درسی دانشگاه‌های دنیا، برای تدریس تاریخ یونان بوده است.
نویسنده کتاب را از چگونگی شکل‌ گیری ملت یونان آغاز، سپس جغرافیای سرزمین را می‌کاود.
نویسنده پرداختن به یونان سده های بعد را، به جلد دیگری موکول کرده است ا.
He is surprisingly comfortable with slavery in Athens, for him it was a social acceptable sacrifice much like road deaths in our own times, and he has an interesting defence of the position of, presumably largely upper class, women in Athens (view spoiler)[ I'll leave to you to decide if or how far you are convinced by it (hide spoiler)].
Nor am I sure that a comparison with late Victorian Britain suggests that Athenian women were much better off than 'oriental seclusion' is meant to imply.
An example in English might be the line..."They run from me that sometime did me seek"It's quite expressive to end with and emphasize the word "seek" here, which is only possible because "me" is automatically the object being sought.
Languages like Greek (and Russian, I just discovered) have them on many more words including nouns, adjectives, etc.
It gives them the ability to express things very powerfully and concisely.Anyway, this is one of my favorite books of all time, and I'm so grateful to Kitto for introducing me to and infecting me with his love of the Hellenic world.
A great short book on Ancient Greece,Though the Mycenae section is obsolete,And the waffling on the status of women should ceaseAfter two paragraphs, not twenty leafs.But the general tenor of Kitto’s pieceShines strongly, like the Golden Fleece;It may just set your soul at peace;A minor historical masterpiece!
This book is a lovely throwback to how general history used to be written, with humor, with rambling asides, with acknowledgements of personal bias, and with an utter devotion and passion for the subject at hand.
Contrast this to modern scholarship, in which subject matter is often written about in a manner that is clinically dry at best and utterly disdainful of both the topic and its context at worse.
If you're going to read one book about Classical Greece then this is it.
Kitto makes every aspect of Greek culture accessible and relevant.
The meat of the classical history is presented in an excellent adaption of the Greek historians in Chapters 7-9, The Fifth Century, The Greeks At War, and The Decline of the Polis, respectively.
Chapter 10 on the Greek Mind presents a fantastic picture of the rationality and passion present in all aspects of Greek life.
From war, civil life, and politics, to art, science, and philosophy, the Greeks reinvented it all through careful balance.
The author is an old fashioned, no-nonsense cultivated man who leavens the book with waspish asides and donnish humour.
He argues that the notion that the slavery that existed in Greece resembled our modern idea of slavery is nonsense, that the idea Greeks disdained all manual occupations is false, as was the idea that Greek women were kept in a state of 'Oriental seclusion' and were treated contemptuously by the men.
His discussion on the tragic dramatists makes me want to read them soon.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to gain a greater understanding of ancient Greece.
Far and away the best introduction to ancient Greece that I have yet found.
With joyful, dynamic prose Kitto introduces us to the history, the people, the places, the culture, and the events of Greece before Alexander the Great.
Often it seems that Kitto is introducing us to ourselves, or at least to a part of ourselves which we didn't even realize we possessed.
If you want to know more about ancient Greece and about yourself -- read this book.
Konusu itibariyle okuduğum en başarılı Yunan tarihi kitabıdır. Dili bu kadar sade ve anlaşılır bir başka kitap bulmak gerçekten zor. Şiddetle tavsiye ederim.
Very dated - not recommended
I was positively impressed by this book. It's such a condensed journey to the Greek mind and lifestyle. It seems well researched, balanced and full of anecdotes. I liked that it does not try to portrait the ancients and the Athenian democracy as a an unrepeatable ideal state. It focuses on the Athenians though, for example it only has a couple of references to Aristotle. The book is fun to read (even if you're not that much into history) and serves as an exploration on why classical Greece is the cradle of western civilisation.
To this, Kitto responds, if Athens is no democracy because its many adults are excluded, then no modern state can be democratic because its powers must be delegated "to representative and professional administrators, and this is a form of oligarchy." Kitto writes that slavery in Greece as not as bad as Rome, and goes on to argue that such slavery helped to promote "civilization, just as the servants we used to have enabled middle-class women to play bridge in the afternoons, and professors to write books." He acknowledges that treatment of slaves used in mines "was callous in the extreme." But even this is not so bad, Kitto writes, as "Most civilizations have their private horrors: we kill 4,000 citizens annually on the roads because our present way of life could not otherwise continue." Women were not regarded much better.

My background (growing up with a parent who had not just studied classics, but who wrote books about Greece and Rome alongside translations of ancient texts) does not make me an ideal test for the use of The Greeks as an introduction, but from what I can see it does seem to do the job it sets out to do.One thing which has certainly changed is the correctness of the assumptions Kitto makes about how much of Greek culture is already known to the general reader.
Definitely a dated work, but still well worth the read. As an introduction to Classical Greece, I can't think of anything better.
was loving it till Kitto started babbling all sorts of rationalizations for treating women like shit. i was all: yo kitto, you just lost yourself a star. i really told him, man!
In all honesty, I have always thought the merits of ancient Greece vastly overstated, yet I am always trying to find a book that would make a good case for their exalted status.
Rather than trying to arrive at the conclusion that the culture of ancient Greece deserves our admiration the author starts with it and then proceeds to write its hagiography for the rest of the book.
However, time and again Kitto appears as an apologist for every possible criticism lobbed against ancient Greece.
If anything this book made me even more suspicious of the claims of superiority made in favor of ancient Greece.
Wonderful book focusing on the Greek people from their formation until just prior to their assimilation by Alexander the Great. While I've read that the information presented is outdated in some respect, I found the book to be an excellent primer on the ancient Greeks and will serve as a solid foundation.For someone who normally finds history books dry, this book was a reprieve. Filled with interesting anecdotes and minor digressions, the author did a thorough job at holding my attention.
Kitto's book is a great starting place for understanding Ancient Greece. This is a history that is written in an informal and accessible way. Kitto does not shy away from incorporating his views which are though provoking and relevant. The Greeks covers a variety of topics from military history, politics, philosophy, culture, gender, and society. Athens takes center stage but Sparta and Ionia are also covered.
An excellent survey of classical Greek life, mostly Athenian. In studying history it is important not only to understand what has happened, but why. This volume explains mostly the Greek mind and habits, culture and art. It spends less time on the details of events and more on the Greek himself. Absolutely worthwhile. (Thanks, Christina.)
A thoroughly enjoyable and scholarly read. Kitto has the faults of arrogance often found in English historians and makes references to the political atmosphere of 1950s England that fall flat to the modern reader, but he is entertaining, informative, and even-handed in a way that many Greek scholars fail to be.
An excellent overview of Ancient Greek history from the 1950's. Assigned reading for the Western Civilization course I took in college. Somewhat dated by now, in some respects, but can still be read profitably today.
Very compact, but if you read any book on ancient Greece, it should be this one. I should add that there is a free online course on Coursera (the MOOG) called "The Ancient Greeks," taught by Andrew Szegedy-Maszak which I highly recommend. It is excellent.
This was a source book for my A level Classics a long time ago. Very useful but I found it very hard going
Planning on re-reading this. I raced through it last time and remember little, other than how much I enjoyed it. So here's seeing if I still find it as amazing now as I did 15 years ago.
I loved it
Kitto begins with a political overview, from the first settlers to the rise of Alexander the Great, before covering the Greek mind in philosophy and myth.
Kitto brings to this little history great affection for his subject, praising the Greeks despite their faults, as he might a friend.
Specialization brings with it enormous material prosperity, but men are narrower, less experienced with life in the main; lost is the Greek man in full, one who could farm and think and craft and love, who put to the test every sinew of his body and mind.
A hugely impressive, revelatory read. Kitto is incredibly trenchant in his opinions, witty in his style, and brings to vivid life not the pale shadow we know as the 'city-state' but the multi-faceted 'polis'. It may be from 1951 but this primer has insights I've not seen in newer work, and is almost a call to civic engagement now as much as introduction to first democracy.
I haven't read it yet
The book is more of interpretations than of descriptions.
It implies a contempt for efficiency - or rather a much higher idea of efficiency: an efficiency which exists not in one department of life, but in life itself.""The word ['sophist'] means 'teacher of sophia, and 'sophia' is one of those difficult Greek words, meaning either 'wisdom' , 'cleverness', or 'practical ability'.
Is has a similar range - from Professors of Greeks to Professors of Phrenology - and though some Professors research, all teach, and all are paid - which was a great reproach to the Sophists."However, the writing is not very clear in structure nor easy to follow--descriptions, interpretations, digressions, all mixed together.
