https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144070.Quartet
Something in me is broken. Ah Jean, it's so nice to have you back. You smell of gin and desperation and self-loathing, but that doesn't matter; I still love you anyway. No one pulls at my heartstrings quite the way you do...Some of you may remember my Rhys rampage of last summer. I read through her novels so quickly, you might have thought the pages were burning my fingertips. Well wisely, at least I think wisely, I saved one novel for a rainy day, a day when no one but Jean Rhys would do. Stra
Strangely, the very day I needed Jean the most, her Complete Novels arrived at my door, sent to me ever so sweetly by my dear GR friend Mark.
Marya is married to a scoundrel named Stephan who early on gets arrested for theft and sent to prison for a year, leaving Marya penniless and alone.
Now anyone who knows a thing or two about Jean Rhys knows that she actually was married to a guy who was a scoundrel and went to prison, leaving her penniless and alone.
Seriously: If I had to hear one more character, even the all-bark-no-bite Lois whose big mouth only took her as far as her dominating husband would let her run, I was going to throw this book at the first guy who had the misfortune of speaking to me at the wrong time.In the end, I couldn't help but feel like such somberly lovely prose was wasted on such irrevocably rotten characters -- not that the play of the two dueling aesthetics didn't add to the insurmountable misery that was doing a fine job of escalating on its own.
The second book I have read by Jean Rhys and I am utterly besotted with her.
I can’t comprehend how she creates such beauty and utter emotion with her writing, it sucks you in and won’t let go.
I don’t really have words to explain how much I admire her or her work.
Set again in Paris, ‘Quartet’ follows Marya as she is abandoned by her husband and taken in by a kindly couple who may or may not have ulterior motives.
She speaks so clearly about heartbreak, love, destructive thoughts and depression and I was by her side suffering and rejoicing as she searches for happiness.
I wouldn't know they were prostitutes if the title of the photograph didn't say so.
Now that I think about it of course they have to be night birds, if you take in times and the averages (something I don't want to do, and of course, the neon lights demand it).
The music playing is like listening to every song on the radio after you had your heart broken and desperately applying all of the words of solace just for you.
You're not alone.Marya is stuck on words she wants to hear.
There's a Merchant Ivory film version from the '80s starring Isabelle Adjani as Marya.
Of course there wouldn't be another hooker on that street.
Old Heidler looks like Queen Victoria and has the hots for Marya.
He thought of it grossly, to amuse himself, and them with ferocious contempt… But it didn’t really matter much.Marya gets steamrollered by the awful Heidler but in any case she’s a mixed up shook up girl, as Patti and the Emblems would have put it 34 years later.
Between Heidler and Stephan, soon to emerge from prison, and her lonely life with no job and no money, you might think the Seine would soon be presenting her with its twinkling liquid solution but first stop for Marya along that bus route is pernod.
Virgin Marya, Marionette Montparnasse. 1928.  Narrow, sordid streets full of “shabby parfumeries, second-hand book-stalls, cheap hat-shops, bars frequented by gaily-painted ladies and loud-voiced men…” There are rumours of Bolshevist plots and scares. Marya is “a pretty girl, but a girl who thinks too much.” She’s not a particularly sad person by nature, but she longs to be safe and happy. Pre-Existentialism,  “her existence, though delightful, was haphazard.”  It lacked “solidity; it lacked the
Hugh and Lois seem to have everything: a marriage, an apartment, money and an “[excessively modern] arrangement”: “Lois and I each go our own way…after all, we’re in Paris.” On the other hand, Lois regards Marya as “too virtuous,” so the game proceeds to the next level with a challenge to her virtue, an invitation that makes of her a “naïve sinner.” In return, she receives comfort and safety, though it too often seems like a new unreality, one where she experiences “the fright of a child shut up in a dark room, [the] fright of an animal caught in a trap.” She feels like a marionette.
Jean Rhys brilliantly conveys a kind of entrapment in societal circumstance. Her heroines have a kinship with Kavan's, though they tend to have more fight and relatable introspection. Still, the outcomes are about the same. It's easy to shout advice from the sidelines in these cases, but Rhys conveys well how that advice might not really be conceivable or relevant to one finding herself in such a life. And she writes beautifully -- spare, precise, confidently sketching in multifaceted characters in a few believable strokes. As well as precarious constructions of interrelation. Must love be so... damaging? Sometimes, sometimes.
That real life affair occurred in France under Ford's roof, with the knowledge of his common law wife, Australian artist Stella Bowen, twenty years his junior, who turned a blind eye to his affairs.Rhys and her first of four husbands, Jean Lenglet, a French-Dutch journalist, songwriter (and spy) had wandered through Europe, living mainly in London, Paris and Vienna.
Lenglet had been arrested and jailed on murky 'currency exchange' charges, leaving Rhys alone, destitute and stranded.
When Stephan is released from jail, he leaves France without Mado.
Quartet, published nearly forty years earlier, is her first, already featuring some of the recurring themes of her writing, typical reactions and reflections of her characters, a peculiar type of heroine and - most importantly, perhaps - classification of people into two categories: the sensitive, obsessing victims and the cruel, thoughtless survivors (this changes in Wide Sargasso Sea, to some extent.)Much has been said about the composite heroine of Rhys's writing - seemingly, her early novels all feature one woman and her ups and downs (mostly downs) in the interwar underworld.
J., her stolidly middle class lover; and Lois, his scheming wife.
I love him!’”What makes Rhys’ Quartet so contemporary?
Here Lois speaks to Marya: “’I’ve realized, you see, that life is cruel and horrible to unprotected people.
I hate them with their greedy eyes.’” In Quartet’s marvelous conclusion—which I’ll leave you to discover for yourself—Rhys uses Stephan, Marya’s husband, as the instrument to bear the truth about even marital relationships between men and women.Rhys’ characters are disreputable.
I hate scenes.’” In short, the poor and the middle class—and all of Rhys’ characters—are equally amoral.Quartet is timeless, and a remarkable debut for Jean Rhys.
And right there in Paris!Marya, a 28-year-old blonde, pretty Englishwoman married to Stephan, a Pole trying to eke out a living in Paris (most likely as a thief).
This is the most brilliant philosophy a wife can have, difficult but foolproof, and it's a great wonder why it hasn't caught on yet (men can only dream about it now).I must tell you that Stephan--with whom Marya knew real joy and peace--eventually got out of prison.
I must also tell you that Marya eventually confessed everything to him.
But I musn't tell you how the melancholy Jean Rhys ended this novel.
The most horrifyingly sad book I've ever read. I am stunned. The author's voice pierces through like a knife. Know what you're getting into before you pick this one up. Articulates painful knowledge of life that hopefully, most will never know.
This time I read it more as an adult interested in the portraiture of the forced manage-a-trios and its complex psychological machinations, the way that the characters (people) give in to each other unwillingly, pretending to be emotionally ingratiating, and then take back their gifts of indulgence with ill-will and subtle, pouty, put-upon emotional black-mailings and guilt-provoking depressions.
Must we always desire other others, draw them into our webs and massacre our own illicit and shameful desires through our guilt and self loathing at our emotional betrayals of those we love, turning that love into a maze of joy and agony at the same time?
This book, Jean Rhys's first novel mirrors her own life and it is that which creates a fascinating story.
The wide Sargasso Sea is perhaps most famous and is the story of Bertha, Mr Rochester's infamous first wife and 'mad woman in the attic' which was a fascinating look at race and colonialism .
In quartet however the heroine Marya is a young woman who joins the chorus line before marrying a Polish husband who sells stolen antiques and ends up in prison.
Marya, alone in Paris is befriended by a very manipulative couple from the privileged English community and she drawn into an affair with the husband encouraged by the wife.
When he is imprisoned, Marya is left absolutely destitute and to the mercy of a couple who take her in and impose upon her what they believe is an acceptable way to act, revealing the cruelty that underpinned the 1920's French society.It is also a feminist novel, showing the helplessness, and perceived helplessness, of women in Marya's situation, of whom there were thousands.
Marya, who finds herself in a similar situation, feels desperately unhappy and depressed, yet can tell no-one of her troubles due to societal convention.
Quartet was Jean Rhys’s first novel, coming a year after a collection of short stories she had produced with some help from writer Ford Maddox Ford.
Around the time that Rhys was writing Quartet – she was living in Paris with Ford Maddox Ford and his common-law-wife (as it was then termed) Stella Bowen.
The couple are fictionalised here in the characters of the Heidlers.Marya Zelli is a young Englishwoman, married to Stephan, a Pole, the two are, superficially at least happy, Stephen ekes out a living for the two of them in Paris somehow.
But if the content disappointed me, I was rather taken with the style, which I found to be extremely cinematic in nature, as the first chapters in particular are broken into smaller sections and are rendered as little self-contained vignettes, then double spaced from each other which seem to evoke the "cut" of cinematic montage.
Overall, one of those early novels that seem to allude to later displays of greatness than contain much of it itself.
I must admit that I didn't think I'd enjoy Quartet much when it began; the storyline appealed, but I couldn't help but remember that I was frankly quite disappointed by Wide Sargasso Sea on both of the occasions in which I've read it.
I did find some of the scenes a little dull and repetitive, particularly toward the middle of the book (where there is a definite lull), but there was undoubtedly a real clarity to the whole, and the ending was rather strong.
In some ways, Quartet is well characterised, but in others there was no sense of realism.
a young, underdeveloped, down on her luck Englishwoman living in Paris is manipulated into an affair with Ford Maddox Ford and his wife.
Well-written, swift, and very, very mean, this reminded me a bit of last year’s After Claude in its…well, not quite misogyny, but the ferocious nastiness with which its female characters are all portrayed.
It’s a slender novel, largely plotless, though I did really like the way Rhy’s sets the heroine’s obsession for the Ford character sort of off page, showing the terrible effects of it but not really the passion itself.
All around well worth a read, I’d keep it but it’s a library book.
just finished this one.
i liked it but just barely.
often, in literature from this time period and before, a bit after too, there's always a sense of things happening off screen.
and half the time you're reading along, after the fact, and you go, what!
what happened?
maybe we're returning to a time like that?
but still, you have to wonder...or what is actually happening is after going full circle and everything being in one's face...still is...we're now redefining words to mean the complete opposite of what they used to mean.
maybe it's the weather.
the time change.
What a bunch of poor sad crazies! They all smoked and drank way too much. If they had quit those bad habits maybe they could have saved enough to escape Paris and would not have been so insane.At least I was very entertained and never bored. I was mystified by all the French.
Far superior to Voyage in the Dark. It's almost a relief to find that I actually enjoyed one of Rhys's books! And that ending...*that* is how you finish a book.
Jean Rhys’s first novel. I’ve loved loads of her other stuff, but this time I just couldn’t get on board. Stylistically it’s beautiful, with never a word wasted or out of place. Often it’s very funny. But being born of untempered bitterness following the failure of a real life love affair with Ford Maddox Ford, it reads like part of a personal vendetta. There’s no empathy and little nuance. A beautifully expressed complaint it may be, but it’s still just a complaint, and that’s hard to sustain over 143 pages. Those sentences, though. Cor blimey.
This early Rhys work has a hopeless pungency about it -- definitely the most direct and traditional narrative she's produced, but all the poetic flare and misery that would characterise her later work is still intact.Marya was "born to be made a fool of," and she even admits as such - but it's hard to loath someone so idealistic and misplaced, even if they are a little disingenuous.
The great appeal of Rhys work's is that her protagonists never rise to be the hard-faced Joan Crawford shop girl image of the 20s/30s, but this lack of adaptability leads to a kind of emotional strength that would have been considered a weakness in those times.
It’s not going anywhere in particular but it’s good enough nonetheless. A love affair but no love. Using, being used... It is interesting to have this story told by a woman. Object of desire... object in a men’s world.
Agony. Pain. Betrayal. Abuse. Hard core. Brilliant.
I need to read the others about Paris, too...I wish I had endless book money.
I first encountered the writing of Jean Rhys when I read her excellent novel Good Morning, Midnight in college.
(Her real name was Ella Williams.) Ford also had an affair with Rhys, and he’s the inspiration for the character of H.J. Heidler.
(Ford’s real name was Ford Hueffer.) If Ford was anything like Heidler’s character, he was not a very nice guy.If you’re looking for a bleak portrayal of 1920’s Paris, read Quartet.
The writing style of this book is purposefully stunted and lacking in detail.
However, the description of this mental state is quite redundant (which fits in with the writing style but leaves a little to be desired as far as depth and character development go).
The whole time I was reading I kept wondering when the story was going to develop and go somewhere.
If you can get yourself to read until the end of the book, it's mediocre at best and not nearly as wonderful as Rhys's "Wide Sargasso Sea".
I have a hard time recommending this book to anyone, but I do not regret reading it.
Damaged English Marya, her shifty though fun husband in jail, finds herself thrown on the tender mercies of the Heidlers.
Mr H "falls in love" with Marya and begins an affair with her, sanctioned by his unpleasant and jealous wife.
I gave up around here, but I gather that Marya's husband gets out of jail, she confesses all to him, and something awful happens.
Marya does not like Heidler at all, describes him as an inept lover who hates women, and yet entirely consigns her autonomy and will over to him out of some weird and unhealthy love.
