https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72910.The_Gift
Ladinsky has tried to justify pawning off his own work as that of Hafiz, including his own review here, in a pathetic attempt to use a loose definition of translation and that, if it gets to a lot of people and makes people happy, what's the problem?
Ladinsky is a bit over-the-top in his irreverence to the point of his tone actually seeming like a parody of Hafez, rather than a respectful tribute.
And I am sad to think that people will not look for actual translations of Hafez, relying solely on Ladinsky's inventions, which are more accessible but not the same at all.

This compilation of wisdom speaks for itself, however, I would like to share one of the poems that particularly moved me, an invitation, if you will, to "The Gift" of Hafiz, The Great Sufi Master."With That Moon Language"Admit something:Everyone you see, you say to them, "Love me."Of course you do not do this out loud:Otherwise, Someone would call the cops.Still though, think about this,This great pull in usto connect.Why not become the oneWho lives with a full moon in each eyeThat is always saying,With that sweet moonLanguage,What every other eye in this worldIs dying toHear.
Alert! Should be marketed as: BY Daniel Ladinsky ...INSPIRED BY Hafiz
Hafez is the Answer to every question.As i prepared to, & traveled as much of Iran as i was allowed by the nation system (that, really, is only relevant to Iran and maybe Egypt, as few places have approximated the same borders, language and culture for millennia) i was introduced to the magic of Hafez.
Elderly, both men and women, stand silent, reverent, sometimes weeping as though he'd died yesterday instead of 627 years ago.But my favorite custom is the asking.Every family has Hafez.
When a question comes up - ask Hafez!
1320 – 1389) will delight readers of any faith looking for humor and to explore his view of the world –or more accurately- of his God. The poems’ most recurring themes include love, tolerance, fanaticism, forgiveness and God. Most of the poems speak of love and rather ‘unorthodox’ metaphors for God abound throughout his verses.
The reader, whether spiritual or not, may be delighted by his habit of speaking of, or to, God in a rather intimate way, as if to a lover.
Many poems also criticize fanaticism and, as a result of his emphasis on belief in a single God, Hafiz blurs the lines between different faiths as well as genders.
How can it be that Ladinsky's translation captures such a feel of contemporaneity?
1320-1389) captures.It is difficult to even reproduce my favorite poems here because of their unusual form, sometimes just one word in a line.
Ladinsky has published two other books of Hafiz poetry in translation, The Subject Tonight Is Love: 60 Wild and Sweet Poems of Hafiz, and I Heard God Laughing: Poems of Hope and Joy. Even the titles express the joy of Hafiz in talking about God. It seems to me we all need Hafiz in our lives.
As others have pointed out, this book is not Hafiz. It's Ladinsky. Reading it, you'll figure it out pretty quickly. The language is just not in keeping with Hafiz. Nice thoughts in many of the poems, though. Just, not Hafiz. If you want the real Hafiz, I would suggest "Hafiz of Shiraz", which is translated by Avery and Heath-Stubbs. 30 poems of the real thing.
the great sufi poet rumi gets all the accolades but let's not forget the beautiful, mystical work by the equally great sufi poet hafiz. one can learn a lot by reading this collection of 250 poems, one of which reads: even after all this time, the sun never says to the earth:"you owe me."look what happenswith a love like thatit lights up the whole sky
While I sometimes found myself wondering if those were Hafiz's real words, for the most part I think Ladinsky made a good decision.Because Hafiz was a Sufi master, all of his poems are about God in one way or another.
It is because Hafiz's poems are so full of love that I couldn't help but feel happy when reading them.
Hafiz is one of those poets where you can open to any page and read a poem and like what you have read and even feel like it was speaking directly to you at that particular time.
In most other poetry books I’ve read, I might have bookmarked one or two.The piece that most stood out to me was one of the ones I read early on.It goes:IHaveLearnedSo much from GodThat I can no longerCallMyselfA Christian, a Hindu, a Muslim,A Buddhist, a Jew.The Truth has shared so much of ItselfWith meThat I can no longer call myselfA man, a woman, an angel,Or even pureSoul.Love hasBefriended Hafiz so completelyIt has turned to ashAnd freedMeOf every concept and imageMy mind has ever known.Hafiz is renowned in Islamic culture as he speaks a beauty about God that I have rarely heard a Christian utter.
In one poem Hafiz writes:I am savedfrom all reasonAnd surrender understandingand in another The appearance of this worldIs a Magi’s brilliant trickwhereas Jafiz says, on being asked how a believer knows to believe the signs of the Prophet:The onlooker is convinced by evidence only if he already has experience of the world and is acquainted with its ways and its laws.
If he had not enough experience to recognize the limitations of human devices and contrivances, to distinguish the possible from the impossible, and to tell what can happen by accident and what cannot, it would mean nothing to him.I am editing this review after reading another review that says these are far from translations, but are loosely ‘inspired’ by Hafiz.
Because of this book now I'm conflicted about which Sufi poet I love the best, Rumi or Hafiz.
A few years ago world traveler Rick Steves went to Iran and of the many places he visited one was the tomb of Hafiz, where devotees of his poetry still visit and read his poems beside his tomb.
Hafiz died over 600 years ago, and that he is still very popular in Iranian culture is a testament to the greatness and beauty of his poetry I wish I could read Hafiz's poems in the original Farsi, but even though I am limited to an English translation the wondrous spirit of these poems still are a burst of sunshine and wisdom.
This book changed my life.
I am unable to find this place except through Hafiz, and I am pretty weary of ever being able to communicate clearly to anyone in real life about how clear his messages are in this book.
But at least I have him, dancing in my mind, smiling sadly at me and then going off to play with God. I have wirtten him at least 30 poems.Love God and complete trust and opennness.
But putting them into practice is something that seems to cloud everyones mind.
Speaking to me his cherished last words" no one know really respects anyones divinity.
That was the only part worth reading in this book.As I progressed further, a little after 2 chapters, it came to me that either Hafez was an over-rated poet or the translations are way too lousy.
Later while browsing the reviews, it became clear to me that this book is no translation of Hafez's poems but poems by Daniel Ladinsky.
Quite a nice way into tricking people to reading your own poems.
I still tried reading these poems.
I thought, so what if it is by the translator himself, he must have written something worthwhile being inspired from Hafez.
The Gift is a collection of Hafiz poems translated to English by Daniel Ladinsky.
In the preface, Daniel describes the hours he has spent studying Hafiz's work, and how, above all else, he attempts to capture the essence of each poem.
As for me, I just wanted to read some beautiful poetry.I've always connected with Hafiz and Rumi's thoughts on love, nature, happiness and connection; the moon and the sky.
I've spent years clipping parts of their poems, but never spent much time reading "the whole" of their work.
I started reading this book a year and a half ago, to bring some sweetness into my mornings after experiencing a great loss.
I would read at least one poem out loud to myself as a way to feel like I had stepped into the field of love and was wrapped in the sacred.
I noticed whatever poem I read that morning would follow me into the day, inviting me to notice and appreciate beauty in different forms.
Some scholars say this book is not an accurate translation of Hafiz's poetry and that the author took great liberties.

The most beautiful gift. The most stunning poetry I have ever read. The voice of a friend, carried across oceans, through centuries. The book I gift to friends in times of challenge, and happiness, simply as a gift, the best gift I can think of. Probably the most life-changing book I've ever read, and I am trying not to exaggerate ;-) Highly recommended.
surprisingly brisk, funny, amazing poems you wouldn't believe were written so long ago. they are love poems to God and they are passionate!
These poems just aren't a translation in any sense. They're a bunch of New Age poems that Daniel Ladinsky wrote himself and claims are inspired by his reading of Hafez.
I've even painted murals with Ladinsky's phrases integrated into colorful, sweeping abstract forms.
Those in the know indicate that they can't find a single phrase in Ladinsky's work that links back to the phrasing or style of the original text.
That being said, there are still poems in this book I will continue to appreciate and enjoy as original works now that I know they were penned by Ladinsky himself.
If you happen to read and enjoy the book, that's great--but know up front whose work you're reading to avoid that nasty feeling of betrayal once you realize the author isn't who you think it is.
Stop Being So ReligiousWhat/Do sad people have in/common?It seems/They have all built a shrine/To the pastAnd often go there/And do a strange wail and/Worship.What is the beginning of/Happiness?It is to stop being/So religiousLike/ThatI can't presume to know how much of these poems is Hafez, and how much is Daniel Ladinsky.
Translating anything from a middle eastern language into a European one is a notoriously tricky affair.
If nothing else, Ladinsky at least takes a "loose" interpretation of Hafez's work.
I am quite confident that Hafez was not a Sox fan.
Almost all of the poems are very short, with very few taking up more than a page.
Reading Hafiz was like meeting the reincarnation of an old friend in the middle of a midnight desert encampment, sharing his wine and warmth.
Even the most reductionistic cynic may be stirred by the way his words seem to evoke something cosmic, sentient, playful, and loving beyond the veil of what they couldn't possibly know.
He's a joker and a rogue spiritual genius, and his reputation as a ecstasic muse for generations of Persians,ancient and modern,is no accident.
When I read Hafiz I feel like I'm encountering a presence that all the intellect or meditation in a lifetime could never conjur.
Those encounters are fleeting, but forces unto themselves.
A business friend likes to say "Rumi at night, Hafiz in the morning." And while I read both at night--I'm not one for reading in the AM unless I'm at a restaurant and plowing through someone for something I'm writing--there's no question that you're touching gold when you read Hafiz.Two Bears is among my favorites. And while Ladinski's effort doesn't rival Barks' readings / translations of Rumi, they come close in their ability to wake you up and drive you out into the street as a more alive and alert human being.Four stars because I want more.
I love the message and you feel very light and inspired but I am concerned about the translations. There are serval instances that I have actually rolled my eyes and thought, "that can't be right."That is the problem with an author that had not been around in 400 years and his work was originally written in Arabic, not English. I take it with a grain of salt, just like I do all ancient texts that have been translated. Take what you like and leave the rest.

I know that there are issues with Ladinsky's "translation" So I have been looking into more authentic, true to original translations... nonetheless, I really enjoyed most of the poems in this book. This one was my favorite:“THE SUN NEVER SAYSEven After All this time The sun never says to the earth, “You owe Me.” Look What happens With a love like that, It lights the Whole Sky.”
I acquired this book, many moons ago, during a bookstore exploration of the San Francisco Bay Area. At that time, I had never heard anything about this poet's work and decided to buy it anyway; I am glad that I did...
This book is not a translation of Hafez, it's original (and mediocre) poetry by David Ladinsky masquerading as a translation.
