https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72584.Life_Before_Man
A lot of of lukewarm drama follows...While on the surface "Life Before Man" seems like a moderately interesting tale of an unhappy marriage and cheating, the book is not really as great as this short summary might imply.
"Life Before Man" is pretty much a sad, depressing novel about unhappy, unlikable, selfish, and at times suicidal people who do nothing to make their lives better, choosing instead to carry on their miserable existence.I learned nothing from this book, I felt nothing for the characters.
What is disturbing about this tale of the eternal triangle, the love triangle, of course, is that these people seem to be imprisoned by the inevitable.
And any interruption to the apparently inevitable would surely just recreate circumstances that would ensure reversion to type.Lesje (pronounced Lashia) is in one relationship with William and another with fossils.
Lesje is a slight figure, small breasted and thin, but she seems to punch above her weight intellectually and also physically, when she finds what she wants.Elizabeth is married to Nate.
It’s a tendency that is as unlike the lives of these people that it even becomes rather comic.Life Before Man is a truly imaginative title.
I've also had another thinking of Lesje's dinosaur world and the nature of illusion.
How relationship between people often times hang only on an illusion of how we see someone or how someone sees us.
Why not living in a world before man, surrounded by dinosaur and lush vegetation; it's only a small step away from living with our vision of other people.I wished Atwood would write more of this stuff rather than her popular sci-fi.------------------------This book need to be read in a right timing.
I also wished I could walk alongside Lesje in her dinosaur-filled world.…Then there's this underlaying sadness of being alone.
Exquisitely written, but less engaging than some of her other books.Margaret Atwood is one of my favourite books.
In fact, I think Oryx and Crake is my favourite novel of all time, and The Blind Assassin is definitely Top 5.
And Lesje's dinosaur fantasies were pure Atwood at her best - that weirdness, blended with familiarity, that she does so well.
Lesje had a bit more to her, but then even she got a bit frustrating as the book went on.However - I am judging the author by the very high standards she set in her other books.
And she's still one of my all-time favourite writers by a mile.
I really don't know how I feel about this book.
On the one hand, there is Atwood's beautiful style and sentences, her wonderful human poetry, the novel is multi-perspective, which I always like.
But I didn't actually care for any of the main characters, they seemed like vessels to me, vessels for human thought, but not really someone to connect to.
Maybe that was the point, because human isolation and loneliness is a big theme of this book.
But, regardless of the non-event plot and a weird, somewhat unfinished ending, it's still Atwood, and her books haunt you way after reading.
I liked it enough to pick it back up again.
Margaret Atwood introduces the reader to a handful of characters that are all facing relationship crises - and then they tread water until the end of the book.
Well, even if it is the point, it wasn't particularly enjoyable to read and I had to kind of power through to the end.
The book wasn't on my radar at all among the most spoken about Atwood works, and that makes sense since it was published in 1979 (and is set in 1977.) An early work!
There wasn't really any change in theme or anything.2.
Just an open relationship in which we (the reader) grow to (kinda) sympathize with the Home-Wrecker.3.
Speaking of the Home-Wrecker, non of the character were very likable.
the least bitter character.) Or I just learned to hate or become board with the lot of them.4.
Character Chris (he off'ed himself BEFORE the start of the book,) is mentioned a lot, but at the same time is underdeveloped and comes off as less than a ghost.5.
It just wasn't enough to pull me through this novel any quicker.
This is the most indulgent, most subversive portrayal of swinging and infidelity there probably is. Brilliant writing, brilliant pacing and characterization. None of the characters are cardboard, they are each multilayered and greatly flawed. Making for incredible drama and crises of confidence. This is a marvel.
This novel, set in Toronto from late 1976 to the summer of 1978, is centered around 3 people: Elizabeth & Nate Schoenhof, a married couple with 2 young daughters; and Lesje, a paleontologist more at home with dinosaurs and fossils than with most people.
Elizabeth, a rather self-assured woman and museum administrator who likes to feel she can control almost any situation and exert her influence on almost anyone, had had a relationship with Chris, a ruggedly-built man (think Grizzly Adams) who worked as a taxidermist at a downtown museum, where Lesje also works.
Eventually, Nate becomes involved with Lesje (after forsaking another woman with whom he had been having an affair), and this further complicates the lives of all those concerned.
Too "White people problems"?
These characters are simply people you wouldn't want to know, let alone commit a significant chunk of time reading about.
I know enough people like this in real life, fixating on negativity to feel alive, and as a result, much like THE EDIBLE WOMAN, I just can't get into this...Even more pointedly, if the characters are going to be bitches, then they better be BITCHES.
In this way, this is sort of a precursor in territory to THE BLIND ASSASSIN, where "the bitch" is anything but mundane.This is still Atwood, so it's perfectly crafted.
‘Nada se acaba’ (Lumen, 2015) tiene el mérito de parecer sencilla sin serlo, de parecer una novela romántica sin serlo, de parecer centrarse en las relaciones íntimas y personales cuando el retrato social de la mujer es el eje alrededor del que todo se mueve. Un equilibrio entre apariencia y realidad estructural que permea la trama para, desde ella, lanzarnos un mensaje sobre lo negativo de una vida vivida desde esta apariencia que, en sí, no es otra cosa que Seguir leyendo
This was one of the first Atwood books I read in a major author seminar on her and I was just bowled over by how sharp it was. In this book, Atwood has immense reverence, I think, for human resilience...but none for human relationships. A very interesting naturalist bent going on, too.
White suburban angst glorified through long, repetitive, tedious passages--each character a caricature, an absurd attempt at depth and human emotion.
It was like watching a trashy soap opera.
Nothing new.
Nothing new.And I was bored out of my mind.Most disappointing, the conclusion wasn't satisfying and I actually sighed with disgust after finishing it.
I hoped there would be a reward at the end of the tunnel.
After all that moronic angst I just figured SOMETHING worthwhile happens.
It ends the same way it starts: tediously and without any sense of urgency or logic.
I would rather have watched paint dry.
Las relaciones de pareja y sus infidelidades.
Margaret Atwood disecciona el comportamiento humano, su espíritu de supervivencia.
Y entre la gran trama van emergiendo traumas infantiles, política, violaciones dentro de la pareja, inseguridades.
Tras leer las cuatro novelas que escribió en los 70 me queda la sensación de haber concluido una tetralogía, sin que los personajes coincidan ni los argumentos, hay algo en el estilo y en los temas que encadena La mujer comestible (1969), Resurgir (1972), Doña Oráculo (1976) y Nada se acaba (Life before man, 1979).
No existe una novela menor en Atwood.
Entirely unlike anything I'd normally read. But Margaret Atwood's unsettlingly realistic way of relating the stories of the characters' lives makes me want to phone them up after I put down the book and see how they're doing.
All that build-up from this little walk led to this: A NEIGHBORHOOD BOOK EXCHANGE LIBRARY.
A passionate, intelligent, and completely unique woman (who I really want to be like, in a way, which I'll explain soon), who is caught in between a married couple, and even though it was already falling apart - she caused its ultimate destruction.
And I am kind of LOST in life, but therapy and this book and all that - are things to help give me that DIRECTION.
Point is, I got very stressed out because I really wanted to finish the book before hopping on a plane to Michigan tomorrow (finding my way home?
So it's no accident that the women here work with remnants of the past: Elizabeth Shoenhof, a director of a Toronto museum, is married to Nate, once a lawyer but now a maker of chic wooden toys.
And when Nate then goes toward museum paleontologist Lesje, Elizabeth retaliates with a calculated seduction of Lesje's live-in boyfriend.
Yet, for all the generosity, such unrelenting social and emotional chaos makes the book very confining: everyone's center is constantly being stirred, the struggles slow and nearly unbearable, until the entire novel comes to seem like one large tar pit.
It wasn't my favorite, but as the novel progressed I was able to see some of the traits and themes that Atwood develops in her later novels.
It was hard to feel sympathetic for any of the characters, but I think she accurately brings to life those characteristics within all of us that are awful.
The characters are real and awful.
Other authors will falter and the story will falter, but Atwood does it well, she only gets better at it.
The dynamic between women and the theme of power was excellently handled.
Es el primer libro de Atwood que leo y, para ser del todo sincera, aunque hay un montón de cosas que me han gustado y me han dado que pensar, la novela en sí no me ha parecido la panacea. Y es una pena, porque creo que los personajes y las relaciones entre ellos merecían mucho la pena. LA RESEÑA SIGUE AQUÍ: http://www.elbuscalibros.com/2016/02/...
Within twenty pages of starting this, I was identifying myself in the characters.
Imagine my surprise when I finished the book and skimmed through a few reviews on here to find a recurring theme of readers describing the three protagonists as unlikable.No, scratch that.
Imagine my not giving af***.This might be my new favorite of Margaret Atwood's but more importantly it's my favorite kind of Margaret Atwood: almost dreamy but grounded in reality (as most bewildering dreams are), not overtly political but evoking a commentary on humanity, and full of a steadying darkness that suggests regret and confusion are ever present in our success and love.In the end I think I'm mostly Lesje but with enough Elizabeth in me to frighten myself a bit.
I found this story flat and the characters unlikable. I couldn't get invested in their plights, which made the alternating narration and dramatic punctuation feel pretty ridiculous. I did love a lot of the spot-on, layered descriptions of everyday experiences and emotions, which made me excited to pursue some of Atwood's more renowned novels.
You can easily find the traces of childhood trauma in adults' lives. All characters are the victims of history who seek for happiness in the future...
An interesting character piece, which made me long for Toronto. :)
Her characters are always conflicted, promiscuous and resentful about something that happened in their childhood.Here, we have a couple, Nate and Elizabeth who have been married long enough to agree on having an open relationship.
This trend was very much present in Cat's Eye as well but it had more context and backstory than this one.Chris is mentioned quite often although his character is left underdeveloped and we never really gain an understanding of why he resorted to killing himself.The ending ruined the book for me.
There is a lot of abstract imagery which didn't sit well with me, it was too vague and not rife with imagery enough to make me think it was important (such as the details or lack thereof of Elizabeth's childhood), but I suppose that is meant to mirror how little this character knows about her own formative influences and how they are informing her actions in the book.
I found myself expecting to follow this character into a descent of madness where her paleozoic fantasy life becomes inseparable from the life she believes she is living, but instead she just kind of went into the background.
I suppose that book would be another story, the story of Lesje alone, instead of the story of these three.
"They paint not what they see, but what they want."Take three characters "devoid of answers" yet desperately, hopelessly searching for them: Elizabeth is stolid and unrumpled, Lesje roams alongside pterosaurs and Nate has a sawdust heart.
Immediately and unwittingly, we classify them into discernible types of people that we think we know.
We explore each backstory, and muse on what exactly it is that has shaped the distinct psyche, persona and motivation of the characters.
Neither is particularly likeable or sympathetic, however we certainly come to understand each of them, and recognise something of ourselves in at least one (if not all three) of the characters.
The characters were unlikable. They were doing unlikable things. It was sad. I ended up liking it OK, but it was not one of my favorites by any means. I guess it is fairly realistic. The ending was strange, it just sort of ended without much in the way of resolution of climax. Just more of the same--which I guess is what real life is like, but one could takes portions of life and arrange them to tell a story.3rd reading: I have read this before, twice, but I had forgotten the details. If I'd rem
The characters were unlikable.
They were doing unlikable things.
I ended up liking it OK, but it was not one of my favorites by any means.
Just more of the same--which I guess is what real life is like, but one could takes portions of life and arrange them to tell a story.3rd reading: 	I have read this before, twice, but I had forgotten the details.
I enjoyed the book, though it is pretty depressing.
I like Margaret Atwood a lot, but this is not my favorite book of hers.
It's a heavy book--heavy on the heart.
The story shifts between people and perspectives (mainly Elizabeth, Nate, and Lesje) and the sympathies with the characters tend to shift with whose POV it is which was interesting.
However this novel is really so much more about the personalities (or lack of), and the feelings and interactions between the people.
Elizabeth and Lesje as opposites in resolve and self-knowledge, Nate's self-centred, well-intentioned liberal, and his very interesting mother.
Atwood is a great writer.
(Although I still stand by my rule that you have to be in a certain mood to read Atwood, no good doing it if you're already sad...)
Sex-starved Canadian Palentologists sleeping with each other's spouses, commiting suicide, building models of pre-historic mammals...sound vaguely interesting. Strangely not. Atwood explores the effect each employees maternal figures played in their life choices. The characters and reactions are flawlessly believable but as the reader, I frankly didn't care. They made their beds (literally) so I don't feel for them when they face disillusionment for lying in it. I just feel bad for the parents they bad-mouth and the kids they screw up. And I kinda wish they were all eaten by a T-Rex.
Sorry, Margaret, but this is two bad reviews from me in one morning. The Handmaid's Tale: possibly my favourite book ever. The Blind Assassin: half way through and loving it. Life Before Man: dreadful, tedious rubbish! As with Alias Grace, you have created characters I care absolutely nothing for; I wish they had all offed themselves along with Chris to save anyone the hassle of reading about them. I skim read the last 100 pages, just to see if any of them could redeem themselves, and none did. Them's the breaks...
