https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97472.My_Dog_Tulip
in describing the packs of dogs that would follow tulip and ackerley on their walks during her heat, and her confusion in the maelstrom of nature’s demands and ackerley’s untranslatable behavioral expectations of her:And now what did one do, with a swarm of randy creatures dodging along behind with an eye to the main chance, of which they had the clearest view, snarling and squabbling among themselves for what Major Hancock calls the “primacy of approach,” and provoking Tulip to a continual retaliation which either entangled my legs in the lead or wrenched my arm out of its socket?I usually ended by doing two things.
Everything starts out good and it's quite funny and if you love dogs it's wonderful.
All this is fine but from everything I'd been told about the book and other reviews I've read mentioned NOTHING about how the story becomes a serious of nasty portraits of dogs in heat and what happens to them in terms of swelling genitals and fluids and sexual excitement.All I wanted was a story about a guy who loved his dog, not a guy IN love with his dog.If you must read it, stop when the mention of breeding poor Tulip begins.
It was a perfect match between, to borrow the alliterative phrases from a certain film trailer, "curmudgeon and canine," "intellect and instinct."The trailer in question is for an animated film called My Dog Tulip, an adaptation of a classic memoir published in 1965 and written by none other than Ackerley, about none other than his dog Queenie.
A full life naturally included the pleasures of sex…" So begins Ackerley's account of his quest to mate Tulip with another dog.
Like Tulip's problematic sex life, her excreta are fodder for Ackerley's lucid retrospection.
It is a recurring guilt trip for me about my dog when he wants me to hold him instead of whatever it is I’m doing.
He had to make nice with dogs he doesn’t like while I was a monster reading about another dog.) It can’t be because I’m that great.
Can you really know that they love you, would the traitor leave you if they got the chance (Seamus sluts it up to every man on the beach!
I’m going to revisit My Dog Tulip a lot, I just know it.
I feel better about myself, too, because I’m not even as anxious about that as Ackerley is over Tulip.
Her name was Tulip, and she was a terribly behaved but exceptionally loving Alsatian (or German Shepherd.) In one-hundred some pages, Ackerley discusses in detail her trips to the vet, her bowel movements (see - I'm not so bad, someone wrote a book about their dogs poop habits!), and his attempt to give his animal companion, so loyal and loving to her master, as full of a life as possible.
The power in MY DOG TULIP comes not from long, emotional passages about the tender feelings Tulip summons in Ackerley, nor are they tied to some heart-rending tragedy that besets an entire family; rather, it is the simple descriptions and eye for fantastic detail that Ackerley writes with concerning his pooch that demonstrates his eternal admiration for his pet.
You won't trudge through pages of lush prose concerning the true meaning of life as demonstrated by a fiercely devoted, yet remarkably poorly behaved dog.
I'm guessing the 'major motion picture' doesn't stick too closely to the book, because the book is mostly about smearing vaseline on Tulip's vagina in the hope that she will successfully mate with another handsome German Shepherd.
For the first chapter, I thought this would be the kind of book dog-lovers would love, and everyone else would shrug at and move on.
There are all kinds of reasons one might want to write about one's dog's vagina, the most obvious one being that you're not getting any yourself.
well, it's even more disgusting than his insistence that his dog get fucked by a German Shepherd.
If you are a dog lover but you were disgusted by the details of Tulip's season and the smearing of Vaseline on her vulva, I think Ackerley's point is that you don't love dogs and probably shouldn't own one.I don't like dogs, but I enjoyed this.
He has found himself in a bizarre situation; a huge dog in his second floor flat in Putney.For people who don't like dogs, I would advise crashing on through the chapter about shitting (this was written before owners thought of taking it home with them) as the chapters about sex are really funny.
This is my kind of romance novel.
The man not once but twice considers drowning his dog’s newborn puppies in a bucket of water.
Let me repeat that, the author admits without qualm that the very same puppies he tried so hard to have his dog have are the ones he was seconds away from drowning in a bucket of water.
Dogs managed to have sex just fine before the invention of Vaseline and if you ever get to the point in your life when you consider applying it to your dog, well, seek help, don’t write a book about it.
The book jacket says this is a heartwarming story of a man and his dog, but I would describe it as a graphic tale of a dog and her hoo-ha. Unless you really, really, really like dogs or like the idea of learning how to pimp out your dog when she's in heat, I'd probably stay away from this book. Unless you are into dog vulvas, in which case you might enjoy it.
I always like reading about dogs and dogs' behavior with other dogs and with humans, but "My Dog Tulip" is also an elegant piece of writing and an interesting period piece about England, its classes, and its values.
Most dog-owning readers who can get beyond different perspectives associated with when the book was written should be able to identify with Ackerley's love for Tulip and appreciate his occasional struggles with her lack of appreciation for human standards of propriety.
Every reader should at least acknowledge that his writing provides an exquisite portrait of a dog and of life in England during a bygone era.
As a dog owner there were parts of this book that made me a little emotional. And there was plenty of information that was pretty fascinating. But Ackerley's description of Tulip's sex life was a little creepy. He seemed way too interested and descriptive.
I was pretty disappointed to find that most of the book is devoted to intricately describing his attempts to force the dog to breed.
I came away thinking this guy is way too into his dog and way too OBSESSED about breeding her and talking about doggie periods (he seriously mentions the blood about 10 times).
Then he gives them away to anyone who wants one and later finds out that they each had short, miserable lives at the hands of their ignorant owners.
Later on he tries to breed his dog again!
A wonderful memoir. (I'm a little creeped out by all the reviewers who were creeped out by the book.)
Meh. This was presented to me as the be-all, end-all of dog memoirs. What it is, in fact, is one man's obsession with his dog's elimination and procreative functions. Given that it was published in 1956, in England, there have to be allowances for the fact that the world view of dog ownership has changed, for the better, in the last fifty years. We pick up after them, and we neuter them,thus making them,and ourselves, more agreeable.
A heartwarming memoir of writer, J.R. Ackerley's relationship with Tulip,an Alsatian bitch he rescued. Tulip's visits to the vets, urinary and bowel movements are lightheartedly detailed, as is his attempts to find Tulip a suitable 'marriage' partner. But it's a moving tribute also to the canine who became a part of his life and his heart.
Este libro puede dejar una sensación agridulce al terminar su lectura: por un lado, es patente el amor que se siente en él, pero por el otro lado, deja patente que, definitivamente no estaba del todo bien entendida la forma adecuada de criar a un perro sano en aquellos años :S De hecho, en ocasiones uno no puede más que enojarse con el amo ante la forma en la que afronta ciertas circunstancias que hoy en día no causan la menor duda, como la esterilización de los animales.
After reading this book, I felt as if I was let down.Approaching this book, I was expecting a bond that was bound to have struggles, but seemed to be impactful for both Ackerley and his dog.
The novel really concentrates on Tulip's inability and misfortune when it came to breeding and possessing an active sex life and while she loved him and was as loyal as one can be, he proved to be a tough customer.
When talking about this novel, someone brought up the idea that Ackerley may have been doing this intentionally in how people are so judgmental of others and their love lives that to apply this to a dog may make for an interesting critical perspective.
I think any writer who is in love with his dog wants to put into words how beautiful the animal is, and do justice to every expression and behavior.I was completely charmed by Ackerley's account of his dog Tulip.
But Tulip becomes a "woman," so her life story takes a different path than my dog's.Most of the book is about Ackerley's efforts to mate Tulip, not because he wants to raise puppies, but because that is what nature intends for female dogs in heat.
At the very least, the book is an education in the mating of dogs in captivity.
Het aller beste mooiste hondenboek dat er is.Echte onvoorwaardelijke liefde van baas voor hond.Hilarisch, ontroerend, stilistisch fraai.Deze hond, Tulip, een teef, is eigenlijk zijn grote Liefde.Dit boek kun je ook lezen als het verslag van een liefde.Het enige hondenboek, dat ik ken, waar de hond niet dood gaat aan het eind.
Ack! Ick. More gross than endearing, Ackerly seems unduly focussed on his dog's genitalia, breeding behaviour, and elimination. If I wanted more dog shit in my life, I'd adopt another puppy. I was surprised, as many of the reviews of this called it "charming" and I didn't find any charming bits, just a cranky old man in love with his dog.
This was an amazing book, so I read it slow. My friend Jordan recommended this book to me because i mentioned my wife and I are writing a book about dogs. Exceptional book. Memoir as told through a shared life w/ a German shepherd. An Englishman post-WWII navigates London, with Tulip off-leash. The book is fixated much on the sexuality of Tulip and her nature, which he refuses to deny.
There were a small handful of reasons why I was going to read My Dog Tulip eventually.1) It was one of the first books published by NYRB and in my psychotic, obsessive way – I found the list of the first 250 books they published, broke them into groups of 20 and am going through each group selecting a few at random.
And while I expected it to be more encompassing about the relationship with the dog – my girlfriend soon informed me that it was almost all about mating and the Tulip’s…inner…problems.It’s graphic, sure, but it’s written so beautifully and in such a loving way that you can’t help but grow to care about Tulip.
I couldn't get it out of my head that Elizabeth Marshall Thomas said Ackerley's dog was a poorly behaved pain in the ass, so much of Ackerley's subsequent doting struck me as totally unreliable, and, (2.) worse, the type of doting that is barely short of abusive, as (3.) most modern animal philosophers, though I realize they come after Ackerley, have come to accord at very least on the point that dogs need/deserve/have biologically evolved to want/to be obedient to humans.
Maybe I had the wrong idea in my head about what kind of book it would be.
Lovely writing, endearing in his love for Tulip.notes quotes:5..Alsatian = German Shepherd?From Dogspot.in: The name Alsatian was taken into consideration as recent as the Second World War when the Allied Forces chose to discard any word having a connection to the name Germany or German.
They reached a noble way to name the German Shepherd Dog (which had a dominant presence in their Defence Forces as Guard Dogs) as Alsatian derived from the German town of Alsatia, a place presumed to be the originating place of the breed....
I loved Ackerley's writing but this book is showing its age.
In 1948 post-war England, the author adopts an Alsatian (aka German Shepherd).
As Ackerley says, "Unable to love one another, the English turn naturally to dogs." (Amusing but odd trivia, Ackerley's real dog was named Queenie, but because Ackerley was gay the decision was made to call her Tulip in the book.
????)Tulip lived a good 16+ years and the book is a testament to the strong bond between Ackerley and his dog.
Still, common sense would say SPAY your animal.Still, the writing is strong.
What I liked about the book was Mr. Ackerley's writing style; even though, it is quite challenging for me to read since his vocabulary choices were a bit beyond my pea-brain's comprehension, but there was something poetic about the way he wrote, it reminded of s Shakespearean sonnet-- even though I cannot fully grasp every word, I get the gist of it and I love melodic rhythm of the words together.
I liked reading Mr. Ackerley perspective on being a dog owner and appreciated his candor regarding his of knowledge on the subject.
The 1956 classic of animal literature avoids the treackly oversentimentality of so many inferior works.
Instead, Ackerley (man-of-letters, WWI prisoner of war, and editor of the BBC's influential The Listener) gives us such passages as,"She attends socially to a wide range of objects.
The commonest group are the droppings, both liquid and solid, of other animals.
Dead and decaying animals are carefully attended to.
There are advanced stages of decay, when flesh turns into a kind of tallow, which affect her so deeply that urination appears to be an inadequate expression of her feelings.
An amusing, fun account of life with a skittish, freewheeling German Shepherd, JR Ackerley's My Dog Tulip is a nice read, but I can see why it'd also turn some readers off.Indeed, what this book does best is what some people will hate: it's utter frankness.
In the introduction, it's noted that Tulip was often so wild his friends stopped inviting him over since he always brought the dog.
A note about context: remember this book is set in the mid-to-late 1940s before judging him for not having Tulip fixed or for his ideas on puppies.
