https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58372.Whatever
Endless AdolescenceMeh. An amalgam of Harry Enfield (as Kevin the Teenager), Charles Anthony Bruno (Strangers on a Train), with a smackerol of Patrick Bateman (American Psycho). Praised in some quarters for its balance of philosophy and gritty dialogue, it's difficult to tell whether Whatever is really meant to be taken seriously...and, if so, as what. An angry, possibly psychotic 30ish IT nerd with an awkward adolescence has a breakdown and recovers...or perhaps he doesn't. It doesn't matter much either way. Maybe it's necessary to be French to get it.
The British translator or publisher should be beheaded for calling this book "Whatever" when its French title is something amazing like "Extension of the Domain of the Struggle" -- if we otherwise lived in a total utopia, I'd say restoring the English translation's title to something closer to the original would be a major issue in this year's elections.
I blamed the translator at first, then Houellebecq's youth, and considered it in the 2/3-star range: intemittently clever but otherwise "eh".
Anyway, whatever: I'd like to petition for a new translation by Gavin Bowd or Frank Wynne, someone who'd respect the original title and maybe debritishify things a bit.
Thirty-year old narrator is a computer engineer in France and he is living alone in his apartment.
In his spare time, he writes about animals, smokes four packs of cigarettes a day, has no friends, he has no sex life.
I have all those he lacks, I write book reviews and read a lot and all those keep my idle mind busy when I am supposed to be relaxing.
I am an I.T. manager and have been in I.T. or related fields for most of my 30-year corporate life.
This is my first Houellebecq and I am happy that I finally tried reading him.
A "Naked Lunch" minus all that heroin; a "Fight Club" minus all the rambunctious spacemonkeys.A voice as singular (and freshly French) as Francoise Sagan's. A Novella that is ambitious, small, bitter-- it hints at the horrible and barely makes note of the magical in the everyday. Boredom is the biggest enemy, as WE ALL KNOW. Brutal, smart, crazy, incredibly edgy, a stylish nouvelle-classique at only 155 pages!
You phone his friend Tisserand who is unbearably ugly and hits on you twice, for help.
You say: “You are so hideous, no woman would go anywhere near you, you disgusting pustule of a man.” Tisserand breaks down in tears but comes back with a brutal salvo: “You women are callous stiff planks who’re only out for yourselves!” Or words to that effect.
But your friend who works in IT is looking extremely peaky.
An entire life spent reading would have fulfilled my every desire; I already knew that at the age of seven.
Really, I believe that an entire life spent reading would have suited me best.
Αυτο το βιβλιο με τσακισε..σκεφτομαι οτι στην αρχη του σε αρκετα σημεια γελασα και σχεδον ντρεπομαι γιαυτο.
Η ιστορια αφορα σε εναν ανωνυμο αφηγητη που περνα απο ολα τα σταδια που μπορει καποιος να περασει μεχρι να συνειδητοποιησει οτι πασχει απο καταθλιψη.περιγραφει εναν κοσμο που καθοριζεται απο τελειως κενες και ανουσιες ιδεες και πως αυτο επηρεαζει ολους μας(αλλους λιγοτερο ,αλλους περισσότερο, αλλους φανερα, αλλους υπουλα και υποσυνειδητα).οπως λεει ο ιδιος "η συγχρονη νοητικη κατασταση του ανθρωπου συνοψιζεται στη λεξη πικρια"..Ειδικα οι 20 τελευταιες σελιδες ηταν τοσο αληθινες, τοσο ζωντανες που ενιωθα να μου κοβεται η ανασα.πραγματικα ηταν ενα βιβλιο που μου εδωσε την εντυπωση οτι μονο βιωματικα θα μπορουσε να εχει γραφτεί και εαν οντως ισχυει οτι ο Ουελμπεκ εχει βιωσει και αισθανθει ολα αυτα και μπορεσε να τα αποτυπωσει στο εργο του, τοτε απλα του βγαζω το καπελο.Υ.γ.
@Γκελυ και παλι ευχαριστώ
This is my first Houellebecq so I still give him the benefit of doubt.
Even more so since it's only his debut novel.
Poor writing and sexist.
Yet another story about emptiness of corporate life and a guy that sees the point of life in "love".
Love not meaning creating a partnership with a woman but simply fucking her.
In the same time constantly whining how the only woman in his life that mattered was selfish and damaged by shallowness of modern relations, and basically was a bitch and a loose one.
Another antihero of modern literature?
Θα τον συνοδέψει ένας από τους συναδέλφους του στο γραφείο, ο Ραφαέλ Τισεράν, ο οποίος, λόγω της εξωτερικής του εμφάνισης («άσχημος, με όψη που απωθεί τις γυναίκες»), δεν είχε ποτέ του καμία σεξουαλική ζωή, γεγονός που τον κατατάσσει σε προφανώς χειρότερη μοίρα από τον κεντρικό ήρωα του βιβλίου, η τελευταία σχέση του οποίου έληξε άδοξα δυο χρόνια πριν.
Άνθρωποι που λαχταρούν τη σωματική (και πνευματική) επαφή, που διψούν για μια αγκαλιά κι ένα χάδι, ζουν κατά μόνας, χωρίς αγάπη, βιώνοντας εφήμερες σχέσεις σε ένα περιβάλλον σεξουαλικού φιλελευθερισμού, όπου, όμοια με τον άκρατο οικονομικό φιλελευθερισμό, παράγονται φαινόμενα απόλυτης φτώχιας: «ορισμένοι κάνουν έρωτα κάθε μέρα∙ άλλοι πέντε – έξι φορές σ’ όλη τους τη ζωή, ή και ποτέ.
Καθώς ταξιδεύει στη γαλλική επαρχία μαζί με έναν κακάσχημο συνάδελφο (ο οποίος είναι ακόμα πιο μόνος χωρίς όμως να σταματάει να παλεύει γι'αυτα που θέλει), παρουσιάζει σε πρώτο πρόσωπο την κοσμοθεωρία του.Στα χέρια ενός μέτριου συγγραφέα το βιβλίο θα ήταν ένα ακόμα σώου κυνισμού που χαρακτηρίζει -δικαίως εδώ που τα λέμε- τις τελευταίες γενιές.
Ο Ουελμπέκ όμως δεν είναι μέτριος, κάθε άλλο, με αποτέλεσμα το πεδίο της πάλης να είναι μια έντονη εμπειρία, ειδικότερα στο δεύτερο μισό που αρχίζει η κατηφόρα."...
'Ampliación del campo de batalla' es el libro bueno de Houellebecq.
El auténtico de verdad, el arriesgado de verdad.
Después de esto todo va de capa caída y no encontramos nada más que sucedáneos, simples imitaciones de Houellebecq.
Sólo en el primer libro de Houellebecq encontramos cinismo, fatalismo y existencialismo amargo que suenan nuevos y sinceros.
Un libro que parece que está a medio camino del ensayo y la confesión.
Impresionante.
Directo y doloroso como un puñetazo en el estómago.
Simple y efectivo.
¡Oh, qué tiempos aquellos en los que Michel aún no era un escritor que buscaba la polémica fácil y gratuita!
The narrator was both despicable and unspeakably boring (here is an incomplete list of boring things about him: his misogyny, his racism, his treatises on animals, his old breakup, his job, and his depression).
I gather the book was supposed to be shocking and edgy -- like how hipster racism is "edgy"!
-- and that his philosophical musings were meant to be deep and provoke serious thought on post-modern alienation and the emptiness of life.
I ended up switching back to English when I could no longer tell if I more wanted to kill myself or the narrator.
Πιο κοντά στο 3,5*/5, αλλά αν σκεφτείς ότι είναι το ντεμπούτο του είναι εντυπωσιακό.
Ci sono già buona parte dei temi chiave dell’autore.Asocialità, solitudine e mancanza d’affetto, ricerca sessuale, misoginia, infelicità, angoscia.C’è qualcosa - prendetelo con le pinze - di Céline, Camus, Bernhard.In breve: una critica della società contemporanea e della miseria umana.Sta parlando di noi, anche se buttiamo un occhio e poi ce ne andiamo facendo finta di niente.
In situazione sessuale perfettamente liberale, c’è chi ha una vita erotica varia ed eccitante; altri sono ridotti alla masturbazione e alla solitudine.
Altrettanto, il liberalismo sessuale è l’estensione del dominio della lotta, la sua estensione a tutte le età della vita e a tutte le classi della società.
I'd heard of neither Houellebecq nor this book before a friend sent it to me last week but completely understand the controversy surrounding it and him now.
Houellebecq is not nourishment for the soul in any way but the emptiness he depicts won't leave you because of some bits of fine writing found among the flotsam."On Sunday morning I went out for a while in the neighborhood; I bought some raisin bread.
The day was warm but a little sad, as Sundays often are in Paris, especially when one doesn't believe in God.""A weekend without drama; I sleep a lot.
"Extension" est le premier roman de Michel Houellebecq, dont l'œuvre précédente (quelques recueils de poésie et un essai sur H.P. Lovecraft) était restée essentiellement confidentielle.
La sortie récente de son roman "Soumission", dans un climat français de tensions interculturelles, m'a incité à reprendre Houellebecq à ses débuts.Ce premier roman est assez bref et peut pratiquement se lire d'une seule traite.
Tout effet de style est marqué par l'ironie ou par l'autodérision (et il faut souligner que Houellebecq ne manque pas d'un humour à la fois grinçant et feutré).Mais ce roman est aussi porteur d'une thèse.
67)De uma forma brilhante o narrador/Houellebecq vai discorrendo sobre inúmeras temáticas: a dicotomia sexualidade vs erotismo, revelando “que a vida mundana oferece apenas alegrias imperfeitas, que a única verdadeira fonte da felicidade é Deus.” (Pág.
89), um livro absorvente, criativo, irónico e cruel, com múltiplas leituras e interpretações, uma excelente primeira abordagem à obra de um dos mais originais e controversos escritores da actualidade – Michel Houellebecq.
God!!!!!"); narrated in his voice, it's ostensibly a ho-hum record of his aggressively uninteresting life, but through throwaway comments it slyly paints a portrait of white male entitlement, obsessive hatred of women and sex, and barely contained homicidal rage that lies at the heart of our seemingly milquetoast narrator.It's easy to see with this book why so many academic intellectuals were attracted to Houellebecq when he first started publishing (this book was often compared to Camus' The Stranger when it first came out); because here in his first novel Houellebecq still has a kind of emotional distance from his narrator and and doesn't declare a judgement of his actions, making it a more traditional kind of character portrait that lets readers assume that the author means for us to have some disdain for this deeply flawed protagonist.
The book excels in the description of attending one's own life, or what the hero perceives as the life of IT-ers: selling a boring system to bored customers, giving boring lectures to a bored audience in a boring city, participating in boring after-hour events with always-missed goals, etc.
I briefly excused myself and went to throw up in the toilets.The book also includes vague thoughts on the market of sexual encounters, where the liberation of both males and females has lead to a matchmaking disaster---how can one find a match when one's always moving and eternally unattractive?
After reading several books from contemporary literature, I came to conclusion that French discovered depression and pretentiousness.All protagonists have similar problems (loneliness, (a)sexuality, social awkwardness, money issues, psychological therapy and sedatives...) and they want us to believe that they represent the majority of us, and the author addresses the reader, me, to understand him, the protagonist.
I don't understand him nor I find his life philosophy so intriguing.
He didn't discover hot water.Plus, all over again, monologue edition, lack of any concrete conversation and implementation of other people.
I need French book with happy, or if this is too much, with satisfied characters that actually talk to each other.
The central theme of the novel as espoused by the computer programmer is that sexual liberalization has left many ugly and physically deficient people without a sexual partner.
In this liberalized system, some people (the beautiful and the strong) have a fulfilling sex life while for others (the ugly and the physically wretched), the lack of sexual fulfillment only compounds the horror of modern life.
Some years ago, when I worked in Mumbai, a colleague of mine who was good at his job, average looking and shy in his interactions with women, lamented about the increasing number of live in relationships in India.
If office life got you down, well, don't read this book. It's bleak, pessimistic, and pretty standard for the single white male disillusionment with corporate toil tale that seemed to be everywhere in the 1990s. It takes place in France, while most of this type of fiction was probably American or British in origin, this one really takes the cake for being a downer without many redeeming qualities.Oh, and the translator is so British it's distracting.
Excellent comfy dollop of French misanthropy.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CMG-4...
Por fin pude encontrar un Houellebecq que me gusta.
Mientras Plataforma me desagradó, y no pude ni terminar Las partículas elementales, este libro me encantó.
Me pasó exactamente al revés, y eso me hace pensar en si esto quiere decir entonces que el verdadero autor no me gusta, o si puede escindirse y dar dos versiones de si mismo.
Me inclino por lo segundo, y creo que son dos caras de la misma moneda: su esencia se conserva, y cualquiera sea el formato en que la presenta, lo hace de un modo formidable.
He hadn’t always been like this, when he had been interested in the world, when he had lived in the domain of rules.
I’ve scoured the web for any kind of commentary from him regarding his title choice in the face of the original French Extension du domaine de la lutte (Extension of the field of struggle).
I hope to read it in French soon to allay my concerns regarding this English translation, being the only one available.For years I have been walking alongside a phantom who looks like me, and who lives in a theoretical paradise strictly related to the world.
His is a particularly bleak and loveless world.
Whatever (1994) was his first novel: It is about a thirty-something computer software engineer who sees, instead of the possibility of love, the possibility of suicide or even murder.
He travels to Rouen and La Roche-sur-Yon with a co-worker to make presentations to various regional governmental agriculture offices on their software.
The co-worker, Tisserand, is younger than the narrator (who is unnamed), but particularly desperate to hook up with young women.
After one frustrating evening, he dies in an auto accident in the fog, running into a truck.From this point on, our narrator's life becomes ever more bleak.
No es el primer libro de Houllebecq que leo, pero es el más brutal y visceral, el más humano, el menos "cocinado".
Vale que no es perfecto, pero esa palabra sobra si hablamos de la obra de este autor.
Un aviso, alto y claro, de lo que todos sabemos que está y nadie quiere ver.Hay escritores que construyen artificios grandiosos con sus letras.Otros se limitan a juntar pedazos de la realidad con maestría.Houllebecq esculpe el alma humana con sílabas.Para mí leerlo fue casi como tener una amante, buscaba cualquier excusa para leer sus páginas, mitad avergonzado, mitad fascinado.Gran libro.
Not my favorite Michel Houellebecq, but still an interesting read. Here you get the detached main character as he works in the computer world - all of this is much better in his later work. I wouldn't read this first - read the others then read this one if you need it for your collection. But by no means is it an essential piece of fiction by this talented writer.
this guy hates life too much to give a shit about.
Postavy, hlavně panic Tisserand, jsou sice redukovány až na karikaturu, ale postřehy o provozu firem, asertivních a frigidních idiotkách ve vedoucích pozicích na ministerstvech, neschopných manažerských mozcích, kteří neukočírují ani své ego, natož firmu nebo projekt, o zaměstnancích, kteří svou důstojnost rádi prodají za pár drobných (dnes třeba v organizovaném rojení a plánovaném bratření zvaném "team building", které mi vždy připomínalo budování Potěmkinových vesnic plných toho pravého chlapského nehraného bratrství, uskutečněného již zde na zemi dočasně roztomilými a vlastní vůle zbavenými ožraly a doplněného sexem s pečlivě šlechtěnými, necudným duchem a slovníkem "open space" prostor zocelenými kancelářskými kurvičkami a klisničkami), jsou lepší než rozsáhlé sociologické studie.P. S.
Extension du domaine de la lutte is a book about a 30-year old IT specialist who has such a sad and empty life that even the emptiest words on earth can’t truly or accurately describe.
It is one of those books where everything is so bad and depressive that you think that it can’t get worse, but it does.
It’s a short book – you devour it for a couple of hours but need much longer to comprehend it.
I will have to re-read this book again and again.
It is too rich, too sad to take it all in one go.
