https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39792.The_Man_Who_Smiled
Our main character is a Swedish detective who is “lost.” He’s on leave suffering from deep depression from having to justifiably kill a man.
Yet he is supportive of a woman detective who is put down in various ways by most of the other men.We pretty much know from the start who the bad guy is: a big-time financier and jet-setter who controls a mega-million international corporation.
A line I liked: “It’s always easier to maintain a cleverly constructed lie than it is to find an unclear truth.”We get some local color of Ystad of the south coast of Sweden, a real town, along with a map of the city center and a map of the outlying district so we can follow the action.
The opening of the fourth novel in this series finds Kurt Wallander in a deep depression.
After brooding over the incident for more than a year, Wallander resolves to quit the police force and is at the point of turning in his papers when a very bizarre case grabs his attention.An elderly lawyer has died.
The man's son, also a lawyer, makes a clandestine visit to Kurt Wallander, who is still recovering, and tries to convince him to investigate his father's death.
But then the son is murdered and Wallander determines to investigate.
Mais um caso resolvido por Kurt Wallander, mais um excelente policial desta série.Até ao próximo.
Book ReviewThe second review of two crime novels whose titles hint at laughter and joy, Mankell's novel The Man Who Smiled is in my opinion the best to date in the Wallander series.
Service revolvers in Ystad are often found in desk drawers, rather than on the detective's person when out investigating crime.Second, Wallander's character is such that facts are easily digested by this policeman, whereas emotional consequences are not (unlike the Martin Beck series).
Aside from the similar title Per and Maj gave The Laughing Policeman, Mankell here gives us a phenomonal police procedural (my first 5 star rating for a Wallander novel) that revolves around the idea of wiping the smile off the face of a suspected criminal.
It is of no surprise to me that Wallander has such bad insomnia; when you come home at 3 in the morning & drink a cup of coffee, is it any wonder that you're still awake at 6:30?
I like Wallander a lot as a character and I like the people he works with.
I think this may have just been a bad place to start out this series, because the mystery seems a little far-fetched.
And Wallander is so insistent that this criminal wouldn't possibly kill a cop who's sneaking around his property - but he planted a land mine in an old lady's backyard!
The mystery at the heart of the book is suspected financial crime by the principal of a large and secretive complex of businesses.
The guilty party is suspected for much of the book, but evidence doesn't really accumulate, and obvious targets of investigation don't seem to be thought of.
In fact, the police in this case acquire very little actual evidence, and the guilt party is demonstrated only through an absurdly silly, television-like confession at the end.Having read two books in this series, I have no interest whatsoever in reading any others.
since Wallender does not always follow police procedures :)It is best if you read these books in order...
This is book 4 (1 is FAceless Killers, 2 is Dogs of Riga, 3 is White Lioness)This book begins with Wallender doubting himself and dealing with the occurrences in Book 3 where he had to kill a man.
As he is pacing along the beach, thinking, a friend of his, Sten Torstenssen, visits him and wants Wallenders help.
Wallender tells Sten he cannot help him.
Wallender feels guilty for not helping his friend and knows he must not let him down now...
A year has passed and he is resolved, after 25 years service, to retire from the police force.During a visit to Denmark, he is visited by Sten Torstensson, an old friend, now practicing lawyer in his father's firm.
Kurt declines his request to investigate the matter deeper.Returning to Sweden, he finds an obituary for Sten.
It is only the discovery by the police forensic scientist of a plastic can that presents those.Mankell writes well of police frustrations with Sweden's sentencing standards and yet this book finds itself ending on a very soft note in this area.
When a character can become that real, it's definitely a sign that his or her creator is a top-notch writer.The author does not only offer up a first-rate criminal and first-rate policemen here; he also raises several questions about the future of police forces, about the decline of the whole basis of the modern Swedish state as the profits of corruption become more entrenched, and about issues of morality & the true nature of justice in a world where crime is constantly changing and the police and justice system are trying to adapt.
And that these books I read situate what I believe in the black side of their balck & white outlook.Every killer I've ever seen in every detective/mystery/serial killer book I've ever read is written to believe the same thing (The Man Who Smiled just happened to make it explicit in a revealing way), suggesting that people who believe that humanity is insignificant must be "bastards," must be traitors to humanity, must be, in some way, depraved.

This is a real crock of a book.Wallander is depressed cause he shot a crim and still has relationship problems with his father - which is just layed on as a break from the investigation to show that he has problems outside work.Is he coming back into the police after his bout with depression and hard drinking.
And he is welcomed back as a returning hero.For a crime book - this contains no red herrings / false trails / interest / excitement.
With a stone.This is the laziest, least exciting, non event of a crime book that is shocking that it was ever released.
Questa volta il colpevole per l'omicidio di due avvocati è quasi ovvio, ma mancano le prove.Più che gialli i libri di Mankell sono romanzi sulla vita, sul modo di essere degli scandinavi.
Mi ha colpita una frase di Wallander riguardante il mestiere di pittore del padre:"In quante case, su quante pareti poteva essere appeso quel quadro con o senza gallo cedrone e con un sole che non tramontava mai?
Per tutta la sua vita, suo padre aveva impedito al sole di tramontare.
Suo padre aveva dipinto quadri, e le persone che li appendevano alle pareti delle loro case potevano vedere, giorno dopo giorno, il sole."Deve proprio essere un popolo malinconico.
Every time I read a Mankell book, I'm reminded why I keep picking up one of his books out of hundreds on my to-read list.
I just love his stories and his writing.
I read more of Henning Mankell than any other authors, living or dead.
Now that I have read most of his books, I am going to ration myself.
I want him to beat cancer and keep writing - my fingers are firmly crossed and he has my prayers, I know that he will always be one of the greatest, as well as my favourite author.Recommend without hesitation!
I rounded it up to 3 stars. Not my favorite one, but I still want to continue with the series.
Un apparente incidente stradale, un avvocato freddato da dei colpi di pistola nel suo studio legale e poi il ritrovamento di una mina antiuomo nel giardino della segretaria dello studio legale delle due vittime ; infine una carica esplosiva nel serbatoio dello stesso Wallander, che rischia per un pelo di porre fine alla sua carriera- e alla sua vita.
Ci sono abbastanza elementi per far presagire al lettore che anche questa indagine sarà una bella gatta da pelare per il nostro investigatore.
Before long, the secretary of the two dead man is tried to blow up, and Wallander's life seems to be in danger too.Some people in goodreads didn't seem to like this, and I guess that's because they expected something more of a classic cozy mystery with a dozen red herrings.
It's not a cozy, it's more of a police procedural.
A police procedural that is designed in clear lines and patterns like IKEA furniture.There are strong elements of Sweden and Scandinavia in the book (people, habits etc), and Wallander's thoughts thru the book are as always there.
This is the 4th book in the Kurt Wallander detective series and like all previous books, I enjoyed this one even more than the one before.
The Man Who Smiled was also filled with clues and intrigue that kept me fully engaged throughout in trying to solve the crime.Kurt Wallander is fierce and soft.
Kurt Wallander is a "very real", "very believable" character and his role and personality is as much a part of each book in the series as are the crimes and the clues that eventually catch the criminal.I highly recommend this series for its character development and for its crime solving, well-crafted, highly realistic plots.
In my country of "make my day" and "bring it on," this book may be a hard start for US readers.
Detective Wallander drops into a year of depression after shooting a bad guy.
Happy ending.(you get the sense the writer went through this too, maybe after being financially forced to write yet another Wallander mystery) The book's mid-section, also, might be a hard read.
This book is an old man's lament.
No more.I read Mankell to pick up pointers (I write mystery novels too).
If the plot or dreary Sweden do not interest you, then read him as a case study in writing.
Well, if I wasn't hooked on this author and his Inspector Detective Kurt Wallander I am now!
It's not that the mystery is so great...I saw the villain a mile away, but didn't get the motive.
It's in the thinking of what it takes to be a great cop that has me constantly thinking.
You have to have instincts, the ability to work around the clock, the knack to lie when necessary to get what you need to crack a case, and the grumpiness of Wallander to see angles in a case when other cops and detectives miss the details.
Wallender is an old friend in our home from when he was first available in English. This was an audio read, with a fabulous voice actor, who really got the different characters down beautifully. We loved being back in Sweden, though felt a bit schizophrenic, because we've been reading so much Nordic crime stuff, and also a bit of Harry Bosch, too. Everyone seems to have left the police force, but only Kurt is welcomed back; the Harrys in the other stories are still on the skids with their respective bosses.
I love the gloomy, foggy, windy, damp, or bitterly cold (etc.) Swedish setting, which mirrors Kurt Wallander's depression, angst, and solitude. The unraveling of the mystery is a bit less complicated than you'd like it to be.
This must be included in the "Scandinavian crime"-phenomenon by the gravitational pull of others (including some of Mankell's granted). The bad guy (the smiling one) is so far from believable that it makes the book virtually unreadable. I did finish it, but I don't remember why.
I started and stopped this book several times, but the plot was engaging and the Wallendar character's point of view was well-stated.
#3 PopSugar Reading Challenge: ''The Next Book in a Series You've Started'' Los libros de Henning Mankell siempre son buenos, es uno de esos autores que te dan seguridad sus libros de que te van a gustar, puede que no cambien tu vida, pero valen la pena para pasar el rato o después de leer un libro pesado son una brisa de aire fresco.
Si se ve desde esa perspectiva, el libro es bueno, porque nos da muchos detalles que nos hacen llegar a conocer más a profundidad a Wallander, peeeeero para mi perdió su cuarta estrella porque tenía una buena historia de crimen ¡y no la aprovechó!
Ein solider Wallander-Krimi.
Wieder etwas kürzer als der Vorgänger, aber dennoch gut.
Vielleicht geht dadurch einiges sehr schnell, bzw.
sehr abrupt, aber trotzdem bleibt es gut.
Was ich immer gut finde ist, dass hier die Polizeiarbeit nicht dermaßen überhöht wird, sondern auch alltägliche Dinge aufgegriffen werden, wie das man zu Hause bleiben muss, wegen einem kranken Kind oder das es auch "normale" Arbeitszeiten gibt - wie es in einen solchen Job auch möglich ist.
Klar, sticht da Wallander hervor, aber nicht zu krass wie bei manch anderen Krimis, wo es einen Superermittler gibt.
Es wirkt alles sehr natürlich, das gefällt mir wirklich sehr.
Loved this: great plot, beautiful police teamwork lead by Kurt Wallander, so current (still) though written in the 1990s. The blockbuster ending, pre-denouement, was too over-the-top, but I'll take it anyway.
The Man Who Smiled is another Kurt Wallander mystery.
A death meant to look like an accident, some shady international business affairs, a mysterious multi-millionaire, and Wallander freshly back from leave after a shooting come together to make for an intriguing mystery.
Plenty to think about here, with twists and turns, even though some things stretch my belief a little (a landmine in a residential neighborhood??
I really like this series and find it very well written.
The character of Wallander is a well drawn and complex character.
I really enjoy this series and plan to continue reading it.
Wallander the icon.
Impossível não comparar o Kurt Wallander, ao Harry Hole, acho-os tão genialmente parecidos.
