https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30373.A_Kiss_Remembered
An age-appropriate student/teacher romance, I'm promised, but where was the intellectual connection, or even any appreciation for the educational aspect?
This is probably my fault for thinking a romance novel could transcend its genre, but I'm here and this is a novelty for me, so I shall make sport of it.Honestly, I have reasons for seeking stories about smart people getting together.
Thanks to my terrible ex-husband, I never knew what passion was.""Lucky for you, I am excellent instructor; let me teach you all about the ways of The Sex. Also, I love you.""But you're still a teacher and I'm still your student.""STOP SAYING THAT.
Honestly, I don't know why I read some of her older shite books. Total cheesfest. She was a bit of a doormat and he was a bit of an overbearing idiot. Rolled my eyes quite a few times. The books she wrote nearly 30 years ago should be left back 30 years ago. Some of them just don't stand the test of time.At least it was a quick read.
HORRIBLE Out of date (Written in 1983 and not updated even after the reissue)Creeper male lead ("sexy" teacher who corners student and kisses her and is now doing the same thing 10 years later...)Indecisive, insecure, female lead (I want him, don't touch me, I trust you, but not now, I'm going to be a female banker, but I'm going to fawn all over you Mr. teacher)Unnecessary big words (someone likes her thesaurus a bit much)Icky story line (10 years after a torrid *kiss* Mr. Creeper puts the moves on Mrs. Miss student.
Does anyone else thing that looks like Billy Zane on the cover?
Its basically a love story, but it was good for that genre
The heroine was finally getting a degree after her divorce & was kind of bitter about men, after all she put her husband through school, was practically a servant for him, then he left.She's quite happy to see her old high-school teacher since she had a major crush on him and somewhere deep within her he is the man she's always compared everyone too.
It is kind of the same for the hero and he wants everything while the heroine is reluctant since it would hurt his reputation which was already tarnished with false accusations when he was working the political scene in Washington.She gives in, pulls away but he doesn't let her.
Sandra Brown is a favorite author of mine, though her latest novels feature too little romance for my taste. This is one of her earlier works when romance was all she wrote. My review: http://bit.ly/dsZ7Tb
I listened to the audio version.
I'm sooo elated that Ms. Brown weaves a lovely quilt of life, love& experiences that SHOULD be TRUTHFULLY TOLD ..by alll means!!!
It's very unfortunate that the perils of the world & the days we live in tries to dictate a tyrant hold(in the corners of some people minds) on telling a love story ..tsk, tsk!
I'm so glad & grateful Ms. Brown allows this time-less, ageless ,and human nature live on through her story telling.
I'm sooo happy that she shares her great gift of story telling.
a love story that I'll cherish as a collectible treasure...like a (sweet) KISS REMEMBERED!
What i didn't like was how mousey and unconfident the heroine was, so I kept thinking she was pressured into a relationship she didn't want to have, even though she secretly did.
Then the few lazy attempts at creating conflict in the novel (annoying ex coming back to taunt her, even though he was the one who divorced her, and then the slutty student with the paternity lawsuit) > all very weak.
:DAll i can say is that the book was "ok" for a romance novel - quick read, but really annoying (makes you want to slap both the hero and heroine a few times).
Shelley Browning is going to school and trying to remake a life for herself after a bad divorce.
She takes a class with professor, Grant Chapman, a man who she knew from years earlier who was actually one of her high school teachers.
He's a teacher and goes after her as a high-schooler, and then goes after this woman who is dealing with a bad breakup from her marriage and she's one of his students.
I just felt uncomfortable with the whole story.
I felt bad for Shelley and kept thinking she should transfer to another school.
Very good Book. One I could not put down.
Short and sweet. Enjoyable fluff.
O poveste de dragoste, plină de romantism şi pasiune. ❤ O carte super uşor de citit.Concluzia cărții: Iubirea adevărată învinge orice obstacol!
On impulse, high school teacher, Grant Chapman, kisses young Shelley Browning and gets more than he bargains for.
Her heartfelt response surprises him and Grant swiftly does the right thing, leaving Shelley behind for a new life as a Congressional aide in Washington, DC.
Ten years later, Shelley enrolls in a course that Grant Chapman is teaching at a local college, curious to find out whether there might be anything left of the spark of love he ignited in her so long ago.
Grant has been seared by a horrible scandal in Washington and Shelley is all too aware that their roles haven’t changed much since high school.
She ended up leaving college to go to work so he could get his medical education and career going.
A student sexually approaches Grant in hopes of becoming his lover and he won't have any part of it although she states she will tell the president of the university.Her ex goes to her house one morning after she's been helping the professor grade papers the night before and it got late so he stayed over.
Darrell warns her to stop or he won't be able to marry the hospitals presidents daughter.
There was no way to redeem this book unless you changed the hero to a completely different man.
Secondly, when they meet again 10 years later this is a time when professors are not supposed to date/have sex with students, which he doesn't think is pertinent to him or his libido.
What a frigid, straight laced for no good reason (religious beliefs okay but just because for her) idiot.
She fights and fights her feelings and when the hero tries to abide by her dictates she's pissed off at him throwing her books around the house.
Just pass the book by if you know what's good for you.

I fervently wish I could give a negative star rating to this horrible book.
Taken off the shelves at the library at random, I abandoned this book part way though.
Formulaic, poorly written, (even for a romance), a reinforcement of the steroetype that all women are weak and waiting to be rescued; a total waste of time.
I will now open the book at random and type a line demonstrating how awful it is.
I am tempted to tell the library I lost it and pay the fine so that no one else has the opportunity to read it.
In Sandra Brown's early classic romance, A Kiss Remembered, she told us a gripping and timeless love story.
Shelley Browning left her disastrous marriage behind and goes back to college to get her degree.
There, she meets her former high school teacher, Grant Chapman, who finished his stint as a congressional aide and returned to teaching himself.
The kiss they shared haunted her in her dreams and Grant didn't see any harm to seek her out.
Now she's confused more than ever on what was the best for the both of them or what she wanted.
ok for anyone who hated this book get real its a romance novel in all its glory its supposed to be sappy and sweet and not at all intellectual. thats why i read these in between borimg textbooks! sandra brown is and will always be the queen of these types of book. ive read this one at least twenty times and still come back to it...still love it every time i read it (probably because its gooey and makes me say awww every other page)
I love anything Sandra Brown writes. No matter how dated the book is or how flowery romantic it is. But sometimes these particular books causes a level of frustration so high that it makes you want to bang your head on the wall. The misunderstandings drive me crazy. Other than that, it's a decent read. Very short, as I read it in about 3 hours. Sandra Brown fans will enjoy it.
333rd - 2011- beli obral dari ibu kost -
Predictable and cheesy! Shelley got on my last nerve. Ugh!!
good book-people tend to look up old boyfriends/girlfriends when they have had a recent breakup...adds real life to it
sebenarnya temanya menarik tapi karakternya kurang dalam.
si Shelley terlalu nurut banget, terlalu pasrah, gak seperti penggambaran karakternya dia yg katanya cewek cerdas & berprestasi sejak sma.
Grant juga digambarkan sebagai guru sma yg keren, cool & baik tapi begitu ketemu lagi sama Shelley seakan2 sifatnya jadi berubah, terkesan "heboh" & gercep buat ngedapetin Shelley.
sementara Daryl mantan suaminya Shelley & Pru mahasiswi yg naksir berat sama Grant cuma seperti karakter tambahan yg gak begitu penting dibuku ini, antara ada dan tiada (halah), karena rasanya setiap Shelley ketemu sama Grant seperti dunia milik berdua, yg lain nggak dianggap ada, hehehehe
I’m giving this book 5 stars. It’s cheesy and nothing you have not read before in your life but what makes all the difference for me was the fact that I was in love with their love for each other from the beginning to the end. When I started reading this I too had fallen in love with my TA although one sided. But it helped me to put myself in Shelley’s position and enjoy it as if it was my own life.
Not sure what to say about this book. One the relationship between a teacher and a student should never take place. Even if they are both adults. This book was about that and in the end they do end up married and with child but I just viewed it as wrong.
True Sandra Brown romance. I read this by the pool while on vacation. In a nutshell.....high school teacher and student share a kiss. Teacher leaves town before anything else happens. 10 years later, teacher is now a college professor, and his former student is once again, his student.
This story was great. I wish their was a little more back story on the characters, but Sandra Brown does a great job at making you fall in love with the characters none the less. I like stories with a little more details but I'd recommend this book to others.
Not what I expected, worthless read.
