https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/272752.Seedfolks
Some of you might have found that I tend to be a bit stingy with my star ratings.
It all starts with a young Vietnamese girl who decides to surreptitiously plant a very small crop of lima beans in a bare patch of dirt in a "vacant" lot where people have taken to dumping their trash.
Soon others start planting their own little crops.
My favorite part was of two individuals, a man and a woman, who became friends at the new garden.
The man realizes that this same woman once came into his shop and had been rude to him over a discrepancy in change from a purchase.
When I saw the garden for the first time, so green among the dark brick buildings, I thought back to my parents' Persian rug.
The garden's green was as soothing to the eye as the deep blue of that rug.
But the garden's greatest benefit, I feel, was not relief to the eyes, but to make the eyes see our neighbors.To honor her late father, Kim plants six beans in a vacant lot.
One woman manages to get all the trash littering the lot hauled away.
Everyone has a story to tell and a reason for planting.This is a simply wonderful story of how a neighborhood garden grew and a community was born.
I read this book to my students. It lead to great discussions about diversity and coming together as one."Kim begins the garden, planting a few lima beans to connect with her father who died when she was a baby in Vietnam. Then Tío Juan, a farmer from Guatemala, gains purpose when he teaches the neighborhood children how to plant. Soon curious neighbors join in and together they grow a beautiful garden. With each bean sprout and cucumber blossom the residents of Gibs Street find hope and meaning in their little green paradise."
I've been broken hearted by the news over and over again, I'm world-weary, I'm conflicted on my own beliefs, and I have no answers for this world- and I've been in a reading rut, which probably has to do a lot with the suffocating depressiveness of the last few weeks in America.
But this book helped me.
Yes, I thought a few of the depictions were problematic, but overall it was charming, heart warming, and I cried my way through most of it.
Brilliantly narrated on Audible, it was truly a boon to my soul.
A good book at exactly the right time.
I didn't like this book. We had to read it for school, and I read ahead (sorry!) There was detail, but only in certain areas. The chapters were too short, and they introduced a new character in every chapter, with not much detail about the character. I didn't like the format of the story, and there are hardly any good words in this. The reading level of this is about 5th-6th grade, but I read at a much higher level than this, so it was easy for me to read. I really didn't like this book.
5 StarsI had to read this book for my English class and at first I thought I was not going to like it but it turns out while I was reading I really loved this book.
I really love the set up of the book because it is about one garden and people come together as a community and plant vegetables.
I really love how it was written and broken up into each of the characters thoughts, feelings, background information.
I really like that a lot because you can feel and see what has gone in there life and why they are part of the garden.
“We like our seeds, were now planted in the garden."This book started as a girl planting 6 seeds in a pot that was been treated like a wasteland.
Thirteen different view, with different background, country, age, thought...was tighten together by this garden.
Wonder is also a book that is written by different people’s view.
She was wondering what happened during the summer, while me, being a reader know the reason.
This is a short book with thirteen short charters, I really like it.
This book is very interesting, when being the reader knows what is everyone thinking.
**5.0/10**This book is pretty boring. It has some of the most cookie-cutter characters I have seen in a long time. And there are 13 main characters. They all seem to be determined for something. This book has no tension. None. You don't care about any of the characters because of how a new one is introduced to you in EVERY CHAPTER. The writing is also boringly mediocre.
I like the idea of a book about a community garden that brings people together.
However, Fleischman's book which lets his audience "see people making something of themselves instead of waiting for a welfare check" (spoken by Florence on pg.
I found his depictions of people of color to be essentializing and derogatory, while the character that he admitted to crafting after himself, the caucasian Sam, is just about the nicest, most balanced, and respectable member of the "Seedfolks." This is the YA version of The Help.
To cultivate a connection she plant thre beans in an abandoned lot.
Wendell her neighbor is clled to check on things and accidentally surpises young Kim. Eventually he persuades her that he is safe.
Gonazalo is a new immigrant from Guatemala, who is tasked with baby sitting his uncle Juan.
Young people pick up English quick while the elders don't.
In time more and more people friom various background come to the garden and start growing things.
THe garden melds people form differnt backgrounds into one community.
Whether one is directly involved in the garden it is still the pride of the community and it changes people..for the better.
It all begins with a Vietnamese girl who goes to the abandoned lot to plant a bean seed and an elderly white woman who thinks she's hiding drugs and goes down to investigate.
When she discovers that the girl was actually planting seeds, she feels so horrible that she starts helping her take care of them.
This starts a chain reaction that ends in a community garden representing several different cultures and teaching a diverse group of people to get past their prejudices and work together to improve their neighborhood.
This is the latest read-aloud in my room.
The story is about the creation of a community garden in Cleveland.
Each chapter is told by a different character who has been (or is in the process of being)changed by the garden.
The story is told simply and without preaching its message.
By caring for living things people become more alive.
The book also does a great job of showing how people can come together as a community.
There is a garden next to my room that needs a little care and after testing my class will need a project.
It was a really good book. It is a little short but it is nice. I like the message it gives. I love how all the characters are different none of them are even close to alike but they all end up becoming better as a community.
Uplifting story. I enjoyed all the different viewpoints, which came together to chronologically tell story of a garden's revival and the garden's role in building community and helping characters find happiness.
There is also no ending about how the community was connected.First of all, the story has many different characters with different cultures and they all have a separate story with their own reasons to start planting something in the vacant lot.
In contrast, the author didn’t mention it and that made me curious and I feel uncomfortable about that.In conclusion, I wouldn’t recommend the story for other readers who love to read a long novel with connected characters.
For me, I feel like the author left the story half done with no summary at the end of the story.
I think that something unique about Seedfolks is that each chapter switches from different character's points of view.
I think adults and young adults would not find it very exciting or interesting but they would appreciate the lesson and theme of community.
I think the author could have made it more interesting and exciting with a more genuine and thought out plot for the story.
I think the main theme is community because everything in the book is based off community and the garden is one big community.
As the book goes on though the groups of people gardening begin to split up into areas that match their own culture.
This book would also be a good way to introduce a lesson on how cities are split up based on class and race even if it isn’t a good practice.
The last lesson that I would do for this book is to split the class up and have them work outside of their own class.
It would be a good depiction of this book considering that is how the garden worked.
In a rundown neighborhood in Cleveland, Ohio, a young Vietnamese girl becomes a catalyst for authentic, grassroots change.
In an attempt to captivate the spirit of the father she never knew, Kim plants lima beans in a vacant lot, amidst the rat nests and broken car parts.
And then the neighbors notice.
They do the same, and discover the power of growing, building, and changing something for the better.
Okay, it's a little saccharine.
But my students liked it, and I think there needs to be a little more of that vibe in the classroom sometimes.
Buy this title from Powell's Books.
When a young girl plants seeds in an abandoned lot in her neighborhood, she plants seeds that bring together her immigrant community. Each chapter tells the story of one neighbor and their experiences in the garden.This is a great read aloud or engaging novella for a reluctant reader.
Was a good book I like it. I love how they all are connected some how. And all are form different backgrounds, country and live. How the garden brought them all together.
Actually not that bad, it was interesting because it talked about food, and I like food, which made it interesting... but I liked the structure of the book with each chapter about one person also.
(Not to her face.) This is actually probably the worst case of racism in here, as Asian would be a much better alternative and Wendell, who works around kids, should know better.
Chinese workers built the actual railroads.) Finally, Florence, an old black woman, calls Kim "Oriental".
When we read the Florence chapter out loud in school, I faked stupid and asked if Oriental was racist.
I also had her in my first grade class, and one day I said her buns made her look like a little Chinese girl.
Wonderful example of a story cycle novel for young adults, though adults can enjoy it as well.
In an economically-challenged Cleveland neighborhood, a racially and ethnically diverse group of neighbors turn a trash-filled vacant lot into a community garden.
These people portraits fill in the plot, but it's really a character-driven story.
Just like the neighborhood garden, the novel weaves a mosaic of strangers into a community.
Through learning about each of the characters' unique situations, for their brief time in the spotlight, the story builds empathy and understanding.
Plot-wise, it ends where it starts, bringing it full-circle back to another beginning.
88% | B+You should read this book if you like:Inspiring YA, diverse characters, gardening, interconnectedness, the value of community, helping humanity rise, accepting differences, warm fuzzies, books that give you hope
This is a beautiful story about building community. It made me think of a family who hosts an annual neighborhood party in their backyard to encourage us to get to know one another. While it seemed odd to have to schedule an event to meet those living around us, it was an important first step in building our neighborhood community. I love how Fleischman developed the characters with ethnic differences and brought them together in the garden.
Aside from my concerns about race, the book includes references to a number of other topics that might be worth discussing with young readers as well.
Sources: https://www.urban.org/urban-wire/say-african-american-or-black-first-acknowledge-persistence-structural-racismhttps://www.politico.com/blogs/media/2013/04/an-african-american-or-a-black-160773Page 10: "She gave me some binoculars and told me all about the Chinese girl." Wendell (the narrator of this chapter) is referring to Kim, who is Vietnamese.
It's probably best not to use this word casually, except in historical context, especially when speaking about a group that includes Asians.Source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CooliePage 26: "With a few exceptions, the blacks on one side, the whites on another, the Central Americans and Asians toward the back."See the Politico source above related to "Negro".
Seedfolks, is a realistic fiction book by Paul Fleischman.
One thing that is unique about this particular book is that each chapter is written from a different character's perspective.
I think Paul Fleischman decided to have each chapter be told by a different character so that reader would to the each character in depth.
Paul Fleischman got the idea for Seedfolks from an article he read about a communal garden.
One thing that people will learn from this book is that even though you may not have something in common was someone else it doesn't mean you can't come together to make something beautiful.
Multicultural fiction means that in the book there are many different cultures and lifestyles in the book.
I think that everyone can learn something from seedfolks because it has a such powerful meaning of community and making the american dream achievable to everyone.
I think that a few themes for this book could be “every thing is not as it seems” for the garden, and “a little and a little make a lot.” Overall I think I would give seedfolks by Paul Fleischman 2 wheelbarrows out of 5.
This book has 13 points of view and characters from Korea to Romania.
Paul Fleischman used the real world in his novel and he did it well, that’s no small task!
Can the dedication of 13 totally different people and 13 totally different backgrounds and cultures make a garden?
“Ẅhen you are mexican the Puerto Ricans hate you, and when you're pregnant a lot of people hate you” She lives through the hate of many while carrying a baby.
The characters put aside their differences and create a community garden.
All in all Seedfolks by Paul Fleischman gets four points of view out of 5!
So says author Paul Fleischman in Seedfolks, a small anthology of short stories that all center around a vacant lot filled with trash turned vegetable nirvana.Since there’s not a central character to follow, at best all I can do is review the theme of this ridiculous quasi-communist nonsense.
The story centers around a group of tenants living in a Cleveland slum who get the city government to clear away garbage that had been piling up for years in a vacant lot.
One of them begins a garden in the lot, and opens it up to the community.
By coming together as a community, it lowers crime and gives people a purpose, and even turns lives around.
