https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15568.The_Druid_of_Shannara
So the King of the Silver River creates a child, a “daughter” and sends her forth to heal Walker Boh, defeat this wayward fairy brother, and recapture the Black Elfstone of fairie.Along the way, the young “elemental” girl, Quickening, meets and recruits Ohmsford ally and friend, Morgan Leah, and an assassin Pe Ell, who – known only to Quickening and one other – is in the employ of the sinister Shadowen against whom the heirs of Shannara fight.
Book #15/29 in my Epic Shannara Quest.
A unique and very well-written entry into the Shannara legend.This one chronicles the quest of Walker Boh to restore Paranor and the Druids to the Four Lands.
Great characters and exciting action make for a splendid read.
The character of Carisman the tunesmith did not make sense to me, but he was entertaining.
The interludes of the trials of the other children of Shannara are thankfully few, but the overall stucture of this saga is quite effective.Brooks hits a high note narratively with this book.
I hope he can keep it going with the next one.
Verso la Città di Pietra Come da prassi, Brooks calibra piuttosto male il ritmo narrativo e quello che rimane al lettore è una storia asfittica e poco armoniosa nelle unità che la compongono.Viridiana e l'idea della desolante Città di Pietra riscattano in parte il volume e tengono deste un interesse che oramai procede con la forza dell'inerzia.
This is the second book in The Heritage of Shannara story arc.
I liked the book.
I could have done without several of the main characters second guessing themselves since that sort of thing seemed to take up about a third of the book's length.
Had those last pages not been there I probably would have hated this book, but it really brought everything thing to a very satisfying end.
Maybe I'm just getting a little burnt-out on the Shannara books, 'cause I've been reading so many of them now that the show's come out (and I'm still praying that MTV renews it for a second season, 'cause it's a hell of about time they have something worth watching other than Teen Wolf.) But I feel like every Shannara book I read now ends up being a bit more of the same.
I barely managed to get through LOTR the first time around (it took me a second read to appreciate it more.) I'll keep reading these books, but I'm not sure how much longer I can last with these.
The Druid of Shannara by Terry Brooks is the second book of the Heritage of Shannara series set in the Shannara universe.
The second of the four main characters is Morgan Leah who eventually falls in love with Quickening.
This character is by far and away the most complicated character that Brooks has put into the Shannara series up to the point that the book was written as he is a villain but yet their are a few things about him that make him slightly sympathetic.
The last and in many way main character is Walker Boh the man who does not want to fulfill Allanon's mission for him.
One of the best Shannara books for sure. A true adventure fantasy. I was already losing hope that Brooks has just degenerated into generic fantasy, but this book really stands out on it's own. A little bit of doubt, soul searching, interesting characters and the big picture coming together. Still "young adult" friendly, but not as naive.
Dieses Buch hat mich nun doch sehr lange begleitet und ich hatte erneut große Freude mit den Erben von Shannara.
Das Abenteuer von Walker Boh hat mir sehr viel Spaß gemacht, denn der "Dunkle Onkel" ist ein Charakter, der in sich völlig zerrissen ist.
Er hat so viele Zweifel und Ängste in sich, dass er sich selbst so oft im Weg steht.
Auf seiner Suche nach dem schwarzen Elfenstein wird ihm so vieles über sich selbst klar und das hat mir unfassbar gut gefallen.
Es war schade, dass nur wenig über Par, Coll und Wren aufgetaucht ist.
The offspring of Shannara have been tasked by Allanon with four quests that will aid in restoring the Four Lands. Walker Boh and Morgan Leah are tasked with recovering the Black Elfstone. With the aid of a beautiful elemental they will seek out to Stone King to recover it. Another outstanding and gripping tale by Brooks.
In the first book, Par, Col, and Wren Olhmsford along with Walker Boh, all descendants of Jerel Shannara, the ancient king of the Elves, were called on three separate quests by the shade of the druid Allanon to save the Four Lands from the evil Shadowen.
While largely focusing on Par and Col's quest to find the Sword of Shannara (with exciting results), it also managed to balance the other two stories (admittedly, it balanced Walker's a bit better than Wren's, but both were there) and gave insights into the workings of the new, darker Four Lands and political machinations of its corrupt leaders.
Appassionante la breve ma intensa storia d’amore tra Morgan e Viridiana, così come il sacrificio di lei per rigenerare la sua spada…e l’accettazione di Walker del suo ruolo, dopo la morte di Cogline: eccola, la rigenerazione che Viridiana gli aveva promesso; non quella del braccio, ma quella dello spirito…
We didn't really get to know him very well in the first book in this series and I wasn't sure I wanted to read an entire novel that centered around him as the main character.
Then when he lost his arm, I wasn't sure how this story was all going to turn it or if I was going to end up like Walked Boh any more than I did at the beginning of the tale.
After all, are you really going to like someone that is determined to kill everyone in Walker Boh's party, especially the beautiful Quickening?
The introduction of Quickening, the daughter of the King of the Silver River, starts the tale as she goes out into the world and encounters the rest of a small party that will aid Walker in his search for the Elfstone.
Not much needs to be said about the story of this book as it pretty much continues what was started in the first book of the series.
This four book series is pretty formulaic in that the first three books encompass the three quests of Allanon and the final book will bring the tale to an end.
This whole series is one of my all-time favorites. I adore fantasy and Terry Brooks is definitely a favorite author of mine who really pulls you into the characters and struggles each face, externally and internally. I highly recommend this book and series for anyone who appreciates good fantasy, magic, witches, and the fight between good and evil. This author is similar to Robert Jordan (in my opinion).
Been listening to these books in the car, and they've steadily gotten better since the first, which very much read like a first. But with this one things get... well, I got kind of bored. The Heritage of Shannara series doesn't grab me like before, mostly because it feels like more of the same. I suppose this is to be expected. I don't think I'll do any more of the Shannara books. Five was enough.
I am getting used to Brooks story telling style with the second book in this series. And in a way I am thankful for it. The action happens very quickly and there is almost no downtime between "adventures". One thing I thought that he could of done better was to carry on with the Par & Coll story line concurrently during the action. It kind of makes me think that perhaps Brooks had 'number of books' in mind rather than quality of the story when he planned out this series.
I don't think words can begin to describe how much I loved Quickening when I read this book. Yeah, I know, she's probably a Mary Sue. But like I said on my review of The Elfstones of Shannara, I am completely unreasonable about these books.Also, Walker Boh! How can you not love poor Walker Boh?
Another great storyline through the series. The descriptions are vivid and take you into the stories and makes your mind wonder where exactly things are taking place. Makes you excited to read the next book.
This book is awesome. So intense from start to finish! I definitely enjoyed reading this book! It held my interest throughout the entire book, and every little twist was perfect.
Brooks continues to grow on me. And I kept thinking throughout this book how Walker is possibly the best character name ever. So simple, and yet so profound.
Disappointing series of books that I have only read once. Too much, too long and aside from introducing a new druid and restoring the keep the rest of this whole story arc was just too long for me.
But basically, this tale tells the struggle that Walker Boh has accepting his role/fate given him by the shade of Allanon.
I guess the biggest part of this story was the finding and getting the Black Elfstone to bring the Druid place back to the world from the behind the magic keeping safe from the world placed there by Allanon when alive.
That king sends a daughter (elemental) named Quickening, made human to carry the magic to release the Stone King from his misfortune after he releases the Black Elfstone.
It's plot was concise and well constructed, but all the characters hem and haw the entire book.
The issue with this is that the subject of their indecisiveness was the main plot point, so we know the entire time they're going to go through with the plan, there is no need to draw out the decision for so long.
In addition to this, there is a character who's only purpose is to die.
We actually root for the character to die because of how annoying he is, and because we don't care, it doesn't add any fear of danger.
Me ha gustado este segundo libro, sigue con el desarrollo de los personajes y las situaciones por las que pasan cada uno de ellos.
los protagonistas se separan y cada uno sigue su propósito, con nuevos amigos que se encuentran en el camino.
en este segundo volumen nos internamos más siguiendo a Morgan Lea y a Walker Boh, en su intento por encontrar la piedra élfica negra, internándose en la ciudad del rey de piedra.
Asimismo, un nuevo personaje les acompaña: despertar.debo decir que su final es muy conmovedor, de esos que si eres una persona sensibloide te puede hacer llorar bastante...
The Druid of shannara suffers from the usual fantasy tropes of its predecessors (unexplained magical happenings, 'destiny' as explanations for character motives, etc.) but it also suffers from a story that is far too long. Though it's only 370 pages, it should be a hundred pages shorter for the amount of meaningful content it contains. There is some redemption, however, in the form of surprisingly interesting and fun new characters that are introduced.
Walker Boh and Morgan Leah return in the search for the Black Elfstone and do what most of the Shannara heroes do by reluctantly joining in the quest and often questioning it. Quickening, the daughter of the King of the Silver River, through beauty and magic, convinces a team with Walker, Morgan, the evil Pe Ell, and others to find the Elfstone. The character of Quickening was fantastic and made the book quite a good read.
accepting fateWalker Boh, who had denied his order to restore the druids, was setting out to do just that. with a misfit crew of strangers as his companions, he sets out to find the find component to complete his task. fate has the upper hand and she will play the cards as she chooses; someone may loseexcellent choice to break off one character and follow him. it allows the reader see the character in-depth and to meet his companions without confusion.
I started at the original trilogy and each one followed a different set of Ohmsford's but what I like so far about the Heritage series is it follows the same set of characters. I feel like it's getting in deeper to the characters and allows the world to really open up. Even though it's a long time in the future compared to the original series the feel of the world is the same and the development of the world is interesting. I absolutely love this series!
The Heritage book 2.. the story takes a sidestep from the Federation and the Shadowen.. the main theme is the "Quest for the Black Elfstone" the character Walker Boh comes alive. Theres also a Character called the "tunesmith" his appearance in the story is only for a short time but i enjoyed his role as he is a victim of the Federation. The book is a great read looking forward to book 3😀
Love Terry Brooks!I was never much for fantasy until I started reading the Shannara series. I loved science fiction but not fantasy. Well I have read 6 of the Shannara books - 2 trilogies- and I plan to read more. He makes me see and believe the Shannara world and all the characters! Thank you Mr. Brooks!
