https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183524.Little_Blue_and_Little_Yellow
Two colors form another color - but will they be accepted by 'their' colors? Beautiful book that is an abstract fable of inclusion.
My husband was really perplexed after reading this book, what was all about? Unexpectedly (for him) our children, like almost any other children, just love it and, of course, want to hear it and to repeat it over and over.My oldest now says he's little blue and his best friend of the moment, who kisses him all the time, is little yellow. Pity that little blue has not a little brother because my youngest couldn't but chose little red and little red doesn't get much action.
Give a girl a children's art book and you make her smile. Big.
I think this book is great for beginner readers.
It's a great way to incorporate art into reading.
I got a chance to see my mentor use this book for a lesson.
After reading this to her kindergarten class, students were able to recreate the story by using their water colors.
With a venn diagram, students painted a circle yellow and the other circle blue.
When students got to the center of the venn diagram they were able to see how blue and yellow made green when combined.
It's an awesome way to teach primary colors and use art to demonstrate it!
What does blue and black make??" When we saw this book at the library, I'm sure he thought: "Finally, I'll get the answers to ALL my questions." In any case, when you mix yellow and blue, you end up with green, and that's the topic of this book.
Little yellow lives with his yellow mother and father and little blue with his blue parents.
So much (and this my son knew for sure) that they mixed with each other and turned into green.
Luckily, there was a happy ending and everybody ended up hugging everybody, with mixed outcomes ...My son liked it.
I am sure I read this a long time ago, as I would have read a lot of Lionni books, but this one is here, kiddos are reading it, and so I read it again. I like it a lot. It's very simple, just dabs of bright color to tell a story. I am not sure what it means that the two kids--one blue, the other yellow--becoming green together, become unrecognizable to their parents suddenly, but the kids all liked it. Don't over think it, Dave.
...Ma perché è verde?Confesso: non è mio.Non l'ho letto di mia iniziativa.Non l'ho letto solo tre volte, ma tutte quelle (ancora!) che mia nipote Lorenza me l'ha chiesto (e non solo a me per fortuna) nella settimana di giugno in cui è stata a Roma :-)
Little Blue and Little Yellow are best friends. One day, Mama Blue goes out shopping and tells Little Blue to stay at home. Instead, Little Blue goes out to find Little Yellow to play. When they found each other, Little Blue and Little Yellow hugged. They hugged each other until they were green! When they came home, their parents did not recognize them because they were green instead of blue or yellow. Little Blue and Little Yellow were very sad and cried and cried until they were all tears. Wh
Little Blue and Little Yellow are best friends.
In the end, the yellow family and the blue family hugged each other and played with each other.I would recommend this book for younger children.
Little Blue and Little Yellow are best friends, but they are also different.
This can lead to a discussion about diversity.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-kOsZ...This is a WOW book for me because it is important for children to know that even though people are different that they can still be friends!
Children sometimes jump to the conclusion that people cannot be friends if they look or seem different from themselves.
Little Blue and Little Yellow a New York Times Best Illustrated Children's Book of the Year, 1959A simple but carefully crafted story about how children of various colors live together and have abiding friendships.
This was amazing in that it was originally published in 1959."Leo Lionni, an internationally known designer, illustrator, and graphic artist, was born in Holland and lived in Italy until he came to the United States in 1939.
Hailed as “a master of the simple fable” by the Chicago Tribune, he died in 1999 at the age of 89.

Definitely a read for children of all ages (especially as it would be a mother reading to a toddler if the child still doesn’t read yet)…The books makes me feel fuzzy, sweet, and loved.
This story is about little blue and little yellow, just as the title says.
Little blue and little yellow are friends and one day they seem to miss each other and when they find each other they hug and turn into little green.
In Year of the Book, the girl in the story dresses as little yellow and little blue for halloween.
Hands down, one of my all time favorite children picture books!
I really like Leo Lionni.
For those who are critical of the book, maybe they're asking or expecting a little too much from this book.
In my opinion, this is sweet book about friendship and family.
It uses color mixing, yes, but I don't see this as the point of the book or even a great teaching book.
Like another reviewer, I don't see the connection to diversity.
It's just a nice preschool book that young children can relate to and can enjoy.
A wonderful book that is always a big success as a read aloud with my young students.
This is Leo Lionni's best work, in my opinion. Memorable and minimalist, but with a story children will love as much as they will love seeing how blue and yellow combine to make green. Where "Alexander and the Wind-Up Mouse" is a bit out there and "Frederick" poeticizes, "Little Blue and Little Yellow" strikes a chord of simplicity that is pure perfection.
I was read this book when I was younger and it is so magical and makes you smile. I love this book because it opens a wholenother world of art and colors and brings magic to the reader. I would recommend this book to anyone that is obsessed with colors this is really great and the story behind it..... perfection!
Well, I liked the illustrations. I loved how they were so simple. And that I could have drawn them myself! But I think a young child would definitely follow. Plus it leaves plenty of room for imagination to take over. The story wasn't too bad either. But the whole "became green" thing seemed a little odd to me. I know it's me, but still. Odd.
In this book, Little Blue and Little Yellow share a harmless hug and turn into......GREEN! Their parents are upset until the little dots show them that it is ok. I think this book is a symbol for diversity. I would use it in any grade level to address diversity issues.
Very clever way of creating a story. Essentially the characters are blobs of colour but you end up forgetting that and see them as any other character in a story.
"They hugged each other until they were green."
A wonderfully fun story about friendship and color mixing. Many opportunities for acting out portions of the story make this book a read aloud that young readers will love!
Once there were three blues, and three yellows. Near the end blue and yellow make green. The friends feel happy together. - A (5yrs)
http://pussreboots.pair.com/blog/2016...
Dad read this to us. Another cute book by this author..krb 12/1/16
Wszystko jednak dobrze się kończy, a czytająca tę historyjkę Ala nie może się powstrzymać, żeby za każdym razem po zamknięciu książki nie pobiec po farby i nie poeksperymentować z kolorami.Książka stworzona przez Leo Lionniego jest zaliczana do listy najlepszych ilustrowanych książeczek dla dzieci i stała się inspiracją na przykład dla Herve Tulleta przy jego pracy z kolorami dla najmłodszych.
Wydawałoby się, że trzylatkę mogą na dłużej zatrzymać przy sobie wyłącznie bardziej skomplikowane wzory czy treści, a tu proszę: oszczędne ilustracje i prosta fabuła z powodzeniem zajmują jej czas.Wydawnictwo Babaryba ma talent do wynajdywania wśród literatury dziecięcej wydawanej na całym świecie takich perełek, które przemawiają do dzieciaków i zachęcają je do odkrywania nowych zjawisk i zależności.
Have it in the shelves in your classroom and see how many older children turn to it for a little relaxing read during free time!)Delightful simple pages where the characters, a group of children, are presented with blobs of rainbow colours, playing ring-a-ring-a-roses, hide and seek and other playground favourites, showing an integrated mix of children that really is representative of our playgrounds in London and throughout much of the UK.The premise is brilliant, couldn’t be simpler.
Little blue and little yellow are best friends, one day, they hug and hug each other so hard, they turn green.Overall, I think children could appreciate it at more than one level, they may simply enjoy the simplicity of the little colour blobs and their adventures.
Little Blue and Little Yellow book is about two friends that love to be around one another.
I thought that this book was interesting because it touches three kinds of the learning domains; they are Social, Emotional and Creative.
This books pinpoint the social domains because the author mentions about Little Blue's friends and his best friend Little Yellow.
Then with the emotional domain, Little Blue was very happy when he found his his best friend, Little Yellow.
This book is great for children to learn their colors, and social and emotional skills.
~GOODREADS~Recommendation: I recommend this to toddlers and children under the age of 8.Basic plot: Blue and Yellow found each other one day and hugged..
Until they turned green.
They went to show Blue's parents.
They said "That's not our Blue your green." So then they went to Yellows parents.
They said "That's not our Yellow your green." Blue and Yellow cried and cried until they turned back to their original Blue and Yellow colors.My opinion: I think this book is kinda weird but for little kids it gets them to think.
They also said they should have had better pictures, though the pictures described everything that was happening.
I know this is a classic, but I had never read it.
I requested this book because I thought it might be good to add to our choices for "art/colors/painting" in storytime.
I appreciated what the book was trying to do, but didn't think it would work for our purposes.
I accidentally brought it home instead of sending it back and my 4 year old wanted to read it.
I thought it was quite outdated and kind of weird (it's 50 years old) and didn't think he'd like it much.
This is the story of little blue and his friend little yellow accidently joining together and becoming green. I would recommend this book to kindergarteners and 1st graders. The story teaches colors and color combinations. Little blue and little yellow's friendship is something that children will all be able to relate to. It is a very cute story and presents colors in a unique way that has never been seen before.
This was the first book that I ever checked out from the public library. I believe I may have been four or five years old. It became a favorite, and I recall checking it out a few times.As a child, I simply thought this was a very touching story. It was somewhat reassuring; just about all children fear being lost. As an adult, it's easy to attach a multi-cultural message to the story, but I'm not convinced that any such thing was the author's intent.
Love reading this to my younger students when doing color mixing.
