https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/773276.Good_Night_Gorilla
I find the moment where all the animals, during their occupation of the zookeepers' residence, kindly bid goodnight to their oppressors, to be a deeply moving representation of the possibilities of a different world akin to the end of Starhawk's THE FIFTH SACRED THING, when the occupied tell the soldiers "there is room at the table for you." The animals are crying out for us to take our place in the ecosystem.
And just because she's a woman zookeeper, it doesn't mean she's not a neoliberal, upholding the authority of the institution even in the face of a more obvious possibility for solidarity.
It has very few words (only "good," "night," "gorilla," "dear," "zoo" and the names of the five other animals in the book)and is brief.Even read as merely a story, the book is engaging for a very young child, thanks to the bright colors, silly story line and playful illustrations.
For an older child, you can ask more complex questions such as "What is missing from the Lion's cage that all the other animals have in their cages?" or "Why do you think the zoo keeper picked those pictures to hang on his wall?"
In this book of very few words, a wily gorilla snatches the keys off the zookeepers belt and releases animals as they are told ‘good night’.
Soon, the animals come to join the zookeeper at his house and it is only when Mrs. Zookeeper marches them back to the zoo that they stay put.
Neo laughed at this book, but was a little put out that there were few words.
I thought it better, as we could create our own story!
All in all, he wants to get to the zoo as soon as things warm up.
It was not until years later (way into my adulthood) that I finally got the chance to pick up this book and I have to say that I cannot believe that I waited this long to pick up this charming little picture book!The story starts off with a zookeeper saying goodnight to a gorilla in his cage and as soon as the zookeeper goes off to say goodnight to the other zoo animals, the gorilla slyly take the keys from the zookeeper’s pockets and unlocks himself out of the cage.
I also loved the way that Peggy Rathmann made the backgrounds so luscious as it gives the artwork a beautiful feel to the story.Overall, “Good Night, Gorilla” is a truly cute and hilarious story that children who love reading books that take place in the zoo and bedtime stories will definitely enjoy for many years!
Q LOVES this book!
I don't really know.
But we must read it over and over.
If we start a different book, she'll tolerate that for a bit, but then...
she starts pointing to Good Night, Gorilla...
that!" It's the first book we read in the morning, and the last book we read before bedtime.It is an awfully cute board book, and I appreciate the stereotype of the zookeeper's wife as the person who really gets things done.
On a side note, how can anyone resist a book with a secondary plot line that can be summed up as such: banana on a string?
This is an excellent early reader book, mainly to teach some basic animal names. The story is adorable and that is not a word I tend to use. I love reading it aloud and so far no one in my house is sick of hearing it. If I am ever looking for a gift for a 1-3 year old, then this book will be at the top of the list.
(Age 1) I loved this book even before Asher did. It has a really cute, funny premise, and almost no text. Asher really enjoyed the part when all the animals say "good night" and I really enjoyed the nice little visual touches (like looking for the balloon float away on each page, the toys in the animal cages, the people in the window watching the animals march across the yard).
Wasn't as big a hit as "Goodnight, Moon" but still loved it for the silliness and for watching the gorilla.Edited: second child loves it, especially pointing out the mouse.
And though the zookeeper is a kindly, chummy sort, the parallels between his locking of the cages and a prison warden’s nightly rounds are rather obvious.If that were the gist of the story, my ratings would definitely be low.
The exasperated keeper rounds up all of his charges and returns them to the zoo, but as the story closes, we see Gorilla has swiped the key again!So. We have a subpar zoo, but we also have animals who wish to escape the concrete-and-steel environment and visit a place a bit more comfortable.
I didn't think this was all that original, however, my children really seemed to enjoy it. Few words, but an interesting story that's fun to follow, the pictures were a great addition to the plot. I think we'd read it again.
A tired zookeeper unwittingly brings a menagerie of animals home much to his chagrin. This wordless book's illustrations provide much fodder for discussion and interpretation and would make an awesome addition to the before bedtime routine.Find Good Night, Gorilla at the Westminster Public Library!
Most of them I hadn't hear of - I'm not sure about this one, sometimes it seems really familiar to me and other times I don't think I know it at all.It's told mostly in pictures, the text consisting of, largely, the zookeeper saying good night to the various animals.
It's very cute - the gorilla has stolen his keys and follows him through the zoo, and after he's said good night the gorilla opens their cages and they all follow him home to his bedroom.
Dad and I read this book yesterday, and we both loved it.
Dad liked it because it was about a very smart monkey who lets all the animals out of their cages at the zoo.
Because, as my Dad says, wild animals should not be kept in zoos.
Anyway, this gorilla frees all of his friends, and they all sneak back to the zookeeper's house, and sleep in his warm bedroom...
I liked it because the gorilla kept sneaking out.
There are few words in this picture book, which works for a 3-year old great-nephews who like to make up stories.
On a trip to my favorite indie bookstore for his birthday, I was going to collect favorites I got for his mother when she was little.
The indie owner got excited, and asked if he could make a recommendation.
It was Good Night, Gorilla.
Charming drawings, a moon on most pages (perhaps a clear chart to Good Night, Moon) and a clever story.
I hope the young guy enjoys the book as much as I did.
My kids love this book. Not a whole lot of words, but the pictures tell a story. It gives you lots of opportunity to talk with your kids about what is going on. "What is that monkey doing?" I'll say. They'll giggle.I like books that have less words for my younger kids and gives me more opportunity to get them to interact with the story.
This book is just so much fun! I loved the adorable and humorous illustrations (that tell so much of the story) and found myself chuckling by the final page. A great choice for those nights when the little ones need an extra giggle at bedtime.
5* art5* story5* funSo endearing and cozy and wonderful - a favorite favorite. I hope to be reading this over and over in the next few years.
Love love love this book!
There is so much going on in this simple story.
I think I had read this story at least a thousand time before i realized each key was a different colour, and that they matched the colour of each cage.
Perfect.This is a great book for most ages!
I love to challenge my older children to make up an alternate, more complicated story to go along with the pictures.
I find these wordless stories so great, because they are so open ended.
The story is as crazy or tame as your imagination.
Sometimes we read it crazy and sometimes we read it simple and tame.
3.5 out of 5The silly playfulness of this picturebook is charming. So are the illustrations:
I rarely add a book that I've read in nursery class, but Milo insisted that we read this book at least (not kidding) a dozen times. Then he traveled around the room with it, sharing it with the other children in the class. He loved the "good night" bubbles and the white eyes in the darkness - and just laughed and laughed. It was the cutest thing ever!
A cute book about a zookeeper who says goodnight to all the animals in the zoo, but a sneaky gorilla has stolen his keys, follows him, and releases all the animals. All of the animals follow him home and trail him to bed. His wife wakes up to discover all the animals and takes them back to their cages.
Very cute picture book with very few words. My son absolutely loves it!
Low words. Not wordless, but almost. Cute. Good for baby storytime.
This is really cute. Can't believe I haven't read it before! I love the sneaky gorilla. Read for grad school for Lit & Resources for Children.
This little motherfucker is an absolute rascal.
My toddlers love this book. And I do, too!
Ich liebe dieses Buch, weil ich es ein Bilderbuch mit so wenig Text ist, dass die Eltern ein bisschen kreativ werden müssen bei der Erzählung. Und mein Sohn liebt es auch. Dies ist eins der Bücher, die wir immer wieder in die Hand nehmen.
Although this doesn't translate to much more than "goodnight, gorilla," I appreciate this book for bringing me a daily dose of the Spanish language when my Spanish speaking friends are away.(I am three, so this brings comfort easily.)
Hilarious! That silly gorilla. :)
This made me laugh, it was so cute. What a mischievous gorilla and such a nice zookeepers wife. Lovely!
