https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5755.The_Language_Instinct
And if a child learns wildly different languages as say Welsh, Spanish and English (there are many people who grow up speaking these particular three in Patagonia) they will use the correct grammar as well as words without any difficulty at all.__________Notes on reading: What I've learned so far: that it takes only one generation to turn a pidgin into a creole (language).
The children of the immigrant workers were looked after together when their parents were in the fields and they, just like that, because of the instinct for language, for grammar, turned the pidgin into a creole, a language that could express anything and everything.
He goes up to an academic-looking type and asks politely,"Excuse me, do you know which building the linguistics department is in?""It's generally considered incorrect to end a sentence with a preposition" replies the academic."I'm sorry!" says the visitor.
That's just the verbs."[You may need to know something about German word-order to find this amusing.:]__________________________________________It's the day after the Great Vowel Shift, and this guy goes into a bar."Can I have an ale?" he asks.
And the barman replies,"I'm sorry sir, the fishmonger is next door."__________________________________________I wondered where the Great Vowel Shift Joke came from, and - how could I not have guessed?
The Great English Vowel Shift begins.

C3PO is still a long way to go.The ability of learning language is one of the many subjects covered by the book The Language Instinct, written by Steven Pinker, a psycholinguist in Harvard.
But Pinker shows us that far from being a cultural invention, language is actually an instinct.
Pinker showed us that many instances of ‘ungrammatical’ words or sentences according to those mavens, are actually grammatical according to how our brain works.
Hence my writing style – but trust me, in verbal communication, I might sound very, very different.Language is far more interesting than filling up blanks on a question sheet with the right form of verbs, and Steven Pinker has a way of revealing to us how amazing our language and our brain are.
Whether we are born into an English or Kinyarwandan or sign-language community affects only the details of our language acquisition - we are wired to understand the way language works.He makes many good points, and I learned a lot from reading this book, but something underlying the text was somewhat disturbing to me (and it's not just the way he seems to revere Noam Chomsky as a god, quoting him earnestly and often, and almost overemphasizing the one point where he disagrees with Chomsky as if to say, "Look, all you people who think I'm just digesting Chomsky for the masses - I DO have my own thoughts!
By cogitating on the structure of Creole languages and the speech patterns of aphasics, he makes a very, very strong case for a universal grammar.
While there are suggestions that certain features of universal aren't present in some languages, it seems to be a reasonable hypothesis.
In Pinker's view, morphemes fit into the framework of syntax, and therefore language is innate.
Something that fits into the framework of syntax.
Also, he largely relies on generalizations rather than universals.Oh, and he claims signifiers are arbitrary, even in the case of onomatopoeia.
Previously, I had read Steven Pinker's "The Stuff of Thought", which is also an excellent book.
"The Language Instinct" is an absolutely fascinating book!
Every chapter is compelling, and each chapter investigates language from a different perspective.
In both this book, and in "The Stuff of Thought", Pinker investigates why so many seemingly irregular word usages are not irregular at all.
Often we instinctively use words and phrases that seem illogical, just because "it sounds right." Pinker shows the logic underlying the usage--and each time, I just have to say, "oh-my-gosh--of course!"
This theoretical linguistic perspective is diametric to that of the Whorf-Sapir hypothesis, which suggests that language determines thought, and that the particular culture one belongs to is unique, in turn greatly affecting the way that a person communicates, utilizes language, and ultimately, perceives the world around them.In Chapter one, entitled “An Instinct to Acquire an Art”, Pinker covers the two opposing linguistic schools, and talks about Chomsky and his research on Universal grammar.
A highly interesting book about how language came about in the human mind. It gets quite technical at times, but that's an added bonus for anyone who is truly interested in the subject.
Perfect english is a collection of rules that were sold to allow new wealth from the industrial revolution seem classy.Quotes:"Simply by making noises with our mouths, we can reliably cause precise new combinations of ideas to arise in each other's minds.""Language is not a cultural artifact that we learn the way we learn to tell time or how the federal government works.
I think this is the best reviewBy pinker himself.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q-B_O...نسخة مترجمة من محاضرة بينكر، وهي بشكل كبير مراجعة لكتابهhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W0gVL...الترجمة العربية سيئة جدًا، تغني عنها المحاضرة لمن يريد الاطلاع فقط
Like, I finished this book feeling it was pretty intelligent and interesting, and then I read some criticisms and reviews and heck, I don't know what to think.
Still, I did find it interesting, and while the book looks deceptively slim for how long it took me to get through it, Pinker expresses his arguments clearly, with examples and sourcing, etc.
We don't need to hear every word or possible sentence structure (couldn't possibly) to pick up on the rules of grammar and apply them, when speaking and when listening.
*Read for school*2.5/3 starsThis was an okay read - very technical at some points, so those parts nearly lulled me to sleep. Honestly, I wouldn't have picked it up had it not been for my linguistics class - but i did learn about how languages formed, so in a way, it was pretty interesting. Nothing remarkable, though.
Some arithmetic shows that the mouse's descendants would evolve to the size of an elephant in a few thousand generations, an evolutionary eyeblink.''Which is obviously fractally incoherent, as he would have realised if he'd understood Dawkins's argument instead of just trying to repeat it to try to get a good review by him for the back cover (which he got), or even just tried to do said arithmetic.
Read Chomsky instead; Pinker would claim he's saying the same things he is anyway, which demonstrates just how confused he is.Maybe it's just because TLI is his first book.
The narrator really makes an effort, but some of the structures described, while probably quite clear at a mere glance at a hand-drawn diagram, become an impenetrable forest of P(NP)VPs when read out loud.On the other hand, the majority of the objections I saw here, glancing through the comments, boil down to either “boo-hoo, I disagree with his views, therefore this is a bad book” or “Pinker’s presentation is simplistic cherry-picking of straw-man arguments”.
Interesting for its discussion of language and language acquisition. But: too many people take Pinker's word as gospel, when in fact his theories are quite controversial. This book also bears a lot of responsibility for the rise of pop EvPsych. Evolutionary psychology is a field that has a few worthwhile observations mixed with an awful lot of BS used to justify all sorts of learned behavior. So, read this book with a very large grain of salt.
I don't know if I would've enjoyed this book half as much had I not listened to the audiobook, but it was a pleasant commute read.
Len by som rada podotkla, že ide o software, z ktorého vypadávajú slová, na ktorých si môžte vylomiť oči ako napríklad Näïkìmlyìïà (on to jí za ňu v jazyku Kinvujo, ktorým sa hovorí niekde v Afrike) alebo ktoré vám môžu spôsobiť smrť udusením ako napríklad slovo Frithdíbhunaíochtachóireach (preklad antidisestablishmentarianistical do Galštiny), takže predpokladám, že sa to zas nakupovalo cez nejaký pochybný nástenkový tender, niekto sa na tom dobre nabalil a evidentne si ani nedal námahu s čítaním licenčných podmienok, pretože je tam dosť nafigu klauzula o tom, že ak užívateľ nevyužije program v prvých 6 rokoch, už z neho bude nadosmrti vychádzať len já Tarzan ty JanePinker ďalej tvrdí, že ľudia myslia v samostantom jazyku mysle tzv.
I usually "go with the feeling" when I review books, so it's really difficult to review non-fiction. But I'll try anyway.The language history was an easy, but satisfying popular-science read. I highly recommend it to everyone who is interested in linguistics or language in general.
Rather like psychiatrists who were mad, sociologists who couldn’t get on with people, and social anthropologists who were permanent outsiders, linguists, I supposed, devoted their adulthood overcoming their childhood difficulties with language.
Considering the inherent complexity of his topic, Steven Pinker’s book on language is witty, lucid and intelligible.
Pinker’s theme is that people are born with an inherent capacity – an instinct – that enables them to construct language.
He explains how people and animals think without having a language.
He casts doubt on the supposed ability of monkeys and whales to speak human languages.
My main disagreement with Pinker's argument relates to the beloved pasttime of descriptive linguists to bash "the language mavens" - i.e., teachers and writers who criticize certain styles of speech and writing.
Every big change creates a dialect and no dialect is "wrong" or "right." Linguists can certainly contribute to socio-political progress in proving that Southern dialect, Ebonics, and the Queen's English are all grammatically consistent and equally rife with potential for creative expression.
(See EATS SHOOTS AND LEAVES by Lynne Truss for more on that.)Some professors have dismissed Pinker's book as pop science, whereas others are of course excited about his giving the subject popular appeal.
The opposing school of thought argues that although the cognitive underpinnings of language are innate (having developed in evolutionary time), language itself is more like a new machine made out of old parts, which develops in social interaction and cannot be localized in any set of genes or related to any "instinct." Fraught with error, Pinker's pseudo-science is based on an approach that seeks not to fully understand the nature of real language as it exists, as it evolves over time, and as it is acquired by young children - but to rehash a pre-supposed view of language that was developed by "linguists" philosophizing as they sat in their armchairs in the 50s and 60s, fundamentally concerned with abstracting language into mathematical elegance rather than recognizing it for the complex system that it is.
There were some parts of this that were interesting and worth reading for, but overall it was a waffly and long winded book that I struggled to get through at some boring points.
I really-really like my readings about languages (English and my native Russian), never bored with them, and this particular book was a treat. I’ll read other books of Steven Pinker for sure.
It made a bush." That is to say, Pinker disagrees with Darwin's theory that we evolved from Monkeys.That's why computers will never be able to learn language the way a child could, and also why apes will never be able to speak English or Learn American Sign Language.
Above all, however, Pinker convincingly presents the thesis that language - contrary to what many believe - is instinctual.As he says, "this is news." If language is innate, much more could be; such a revelation would revolutionize the way we consider education, study the human brain and even assess the validity of Darwin's theory of evolution!!Factoids:- We are told that a noun is the most important part of a sentence because it is the doer; however, a noun cannot operate without verb.
His premise is that much of what we consider to be learned in our early years as children,through practice with language, is actually pre hardwired in our brains as in an almost universal understanding of syntax that can get laid out in a number of different languages in a number of different ways.
That the ways humans have developed to think of the world is inherent in our understanding of this language.
I would have like to have heard more of this but was still very impressed overall with the author and what he was trying to accomplish with this work and would definitely pick up another book of his.
Written in an informative yet accessible way, every chapter both a new discovery, a challenge and a new adventure, The Language Instinct is the equivalent of an erudite yet enjoyable travel companion who entertains rather than lectures the reader with its knowledge.And just like the end of a pleasant journey, it is deeply sad to finally reach the last page.
At the same time, just like every formative experience in life, when you finally reach the end cover, you walk away from The Language Instinct enriched in mind and spirit.
First of all, I am not a big fan of Steven Pinker.
I found How the mind works erroneous on many accounts.
That said, The Language Instinct is despite its uncompromising MIT cognitivist stance a fun and interesting read.
To me, even the title reveals a general error; i.e. How the Mind Creates Language.
Pinker's arguments without reflecting upon them.
This book is full of interesting facts and stories, but I would recommend anyone to pick up a copy of Wittgenstein's Philosophical Investigations after having read Pinker in order to get a glance of the complicated reality outside the cognitivist nimbus cloud.
This book is a prime example of why Pinker's a great non-fiction writer!!
It begins with a bare bones introduction to language.
Then somehow, he puts in how children learn language.
Naturally, he turns into a drunken intellectual with great finesse when hammering the Grammar Police after hours.
And finishes us off with a lesson in biology ^.^ What a ride!
I'll review this one and link it here too!!
I've already got the perfect movie recommendation too!
It's a natural!My bad, my super late linking of the review:http://www.biblioatlas.com/2017/08/th...The review has the recommended movie at the very bottom with the recommended resources ^.^
Interesting, through I suspect a bit dated by now. The parts about language - usage, construction, acquisition - are fascinating, the overly detailed kvetching about the overly detailed kvetching of newspaper columnists and the like and fitting things into evo-psych arguments and the like far less so.
