https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85301.Unaccustomed_Earth
And, in that way, every one of the eight stories in Unaccustomed Earth does exactly what Stephen King said great stories do when he was hawking the 2008 edition of Best American Short Stories in The New York Times Book Review last fall: they grab us and make us hold on tight, they come at us “full-bore, like a big, hot meteor screaming down from the Kansas sky.”	But it’s not only that Lahiri pulls us in emotionally, it’s that she makes us reconsider our choices and reflect on them by making connections between her fictional characters and our own experiences.
She seemed to have retreated even further into her "safe space", writing only about Bengali Americans who study at ivy league schools, have well educated albeit maladjusted parents and struggle with redefining relationships after relocation.
I expected she'd do justice to the idea, but nope!
In fact, she doesn't even do justice to the same "hackneyed themes" - she addresses relationships (father-daughter, brother-sister etc) but doesn't address any of the other usual suspects when it comes to immigrant struggles - race, sexuality, discrimination, social-cultural identity ...
She does address some of the darker aspects of loneliness, human awkwardness and tragedy especially delicately and manages to bring across her idea without unnecessarily complicating and cluttering her writing.
Mother-daughter relationships as well as other parent-child connections, alcoholism, illness, raising children, love, marriage, separations, and death are all deftly scrutinized.
As children, Hema and Kaushik are forced together by circumstances and a friendship between parents which develops more out of a sense of a need to belong than to a true sense of affinity.
Hema had never been drawn to a person for that reason, until now."I highly recommend this book if you enjoy short stories that have a wealth of depth despite their length, characters that are superbly drawn, and wonderful writing.
As with much of Lahiri's work, Unaccustomed Earth considers the lives of Bengali American characters and how they deal with their mixed cultural environment.عنوانها: خاک غریب؛ به کسی مربوط نیست؛ زمین ناآشنا؛ سرزمین نامانوس؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و هشتم ماه اکتبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: خاک غریب (مجموعه داستان)؛ نویسنده: جومپا لاهیری؛ مترجم: امیرمهدی حقیقت؛ تهران، ماهی، 1388؛ در 360 ص؛ شابک: 9789642090334؛ چاپ دوم تا سوم 1388؛ چاپ ششم 1393؛ موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه از نویسندگان هندی تبار امریکایی - سده 21 معنوان: به کسی مربوط نیست (مجموعه داستان)؛ نویسنده: جومپا لاهیری؛ مترجم: گلی امامی؛ تهران، چشمه، 1388؛ در 380 ص؛ شابک: 9789643626389؛ چاپ دوم 1388؛ چاپ پنجم 1393؛ عنوان: زمین ناآشنا (مجموعه داستان)؛ نویسنده: جومپا لاهیری؛ مترجم: فرانک باجلان؛ تهران، مروارید، 1389؛ در 365 ص؛ شابک: 9789641910732؛ عنوان دیگر: سرزمین نامانوس؛ چاپ دوم 1392؛ نویسنده می‌گویند: «این داستانها اغلب شخصیت‌هایی دارند با زمینه‌ ای از مهاجرت، اما من همیشه امید دارم به چشم داستان‌هایی به آنها نگاه شود که از مخمصه‌ های انسانی سخن می‌گویند: بزرگ شدن و مرگ و زاد و ولد؛ از هم پاشیدگی چیزها.
I have often stated that I do not enjoy short stories, but although this is designated as such, it oversimplifies the content of this book.
With understated elegance, Lahiri has drawn in the reader to become immersed in tales of families, lovers and friends.
I was immediately captivated by her style and the tales that she wove.
It was an emotional experience for me to read each story, from sheer delight, or humor, to grief and regret.
Jhumpa Lahiri has written a beautiful book which I did not want to end.
A real disappointment after her first two books. Doing away with both the emotional gut-punches of displacement and desperation found in "Interpreter of Maladies" and the elegiac generational sweep of "The Namesake," Lahiri in "Unaccustomed Earth" zeroes in on the least interesting dimension of her usual subjects: the interior monologues of fully assimilated, second-generation Indian-Americans who are ungratefully dissatisfied with their lives of privilege. Her formerly melancholic insight and pungent descriptions have given way to stale, distant whiffs of unpleasantness that lack gravity and empathy. Nothing but an elegantly written snooze.
From childhood, he realized now, he was always happiest to be outside, away from the private detritus of life."In each of the eight stories in this collection by Pulitzer Prize-winning author Jhumpa Lahiri, the characters are displaced.
The final three stories of the collection, in Part Two: Hema and Kaushik, look at the decades and unfolding events in the lives of two immigrant children.
Not since Adichie's  Americanah have I felt so strongly.Needless to say, Lahiri has made her way onto my favorites shelf with this collection.
Eight short stories of remarkable depth, richness and resonance.
The stories' endings are particularly powerful, full of surprises that never feel gimmicky.
Stylistically, these are old-fashioned stories; you can see and feel Lahiri's debt to writers like William Trevor and Mavis Gallant in her clear, concise, insightful prose.
She's equally good getting into the skin of men or women, young or old.Like priceless gems, though, these stories seem simple and lovely on the surface but are carefully cut, chosen and polished, hiding layers of mystery.
Perhaps a new term needs to be used for short stories such as these. Each one is jam-packed with details that never bog down; each one is as dense and rich as a novel. The writing never falters; it is always smooth, flowing and self-assured.Of course the last 3 stories could be a novella, and we are lucky not to have to buy a separate book to experience them.Wonderful characters, wonderful stories, wonderful writing.
Ever since I read Lahiri's first collection of stories, "Interpreter of Maladies," when it was published some years ago, I've had a hard time figuring out just why I find her fiction so incredibly appealing and moving and memorable.
I think it's that Lahiri manages to simultaneously convey very specific experiences, while underscoring the universality of those experiences.
The way her characters struggle with marriage, child-rearing, immigration, and parent-child relationships are so fully formed and universal, but so carefully located in the experiences and specific backgrounds of her Indian and Indian-American characters.I don't think I'm doing a good job here of explaining just how well her fiction works.
میتونم روزها و ماهها و سالها داستانهای جومپا لاهیری رو بخونم و خسته نشم. خسته نشم از این مشترکات همیشگی، از آدمهایی که اهل کلکته اند و ساکن ایالت ماساچوست، از تنهایی و غم تلمبار شده لابهلای لحظههای زندگی، از جزئیاتی که باحوصله روایت میشن و قلبتو تسخیر میکنن.فکر میکنم بعدها هر از چندگاهی یکی از داستانها رو مرور کنم و اندازهی خوردن یه فنجون قهوه وسط شلوغیای روز باهاش کیف کنم و یادم بندازه زندگی ما آدمها، همین روزمرگیهاست، همین اتفاقات کوچیک و بزرگ بی اهمیت که احساساتمون رو شکل میدن و ما هر روز کمت

Then I thought about the two books of Lahiri that I have - both short story collections - and why I had rated them 5 stars each.
It felt no different than her short stories in terms of style and voice, that I then thought why would I read a book of almost 300 pages when I can read a short story of 25 pages with an even better impact.
You see, I needed to justify my reasoning changing it from 5 stars to 4 and from 4 to 3, and here's why.Lahiri comes across as a master of the short story craft...
Some might argue that this mindset might cast a cloak on the negative qualities of the novel thereby making the stories more appealing.
Unaccustomed Earth did not.What attracts me to Jhumpa Lahiri's fiction is that I often find traces of myself and people I know in them.
Lahiri has a way of drawing the readers into the minds of her characters and making them a part of the thought process, both said and unsaid.
the stories flow into each other, having to do with people who are different (in age, gender, lifestyle) but also similar in some deep way, so that you have a sense that you are reading about the same group of folks, people who share a profound connection.
this is lahiri's sleight of hand, to make you feel both very close and infinitely distant from these people.these characters are also intensely self-contained, though not in an assured, relaxed way.
so, oddly for a book that is so much about cultural and ethnic displacement, this reads to me more like an investigation of a particularly isolated section of the middle/upper middle class than as an investigation of race.
از روابطی که غمگینت میکنن، از دوست داشتن هایی که آزارت میدن، از پدر و مادری که بخاطر پایبندی به فرهنگشون سخت گیری میکنن، و از تلخی هایی که از نگاه آدم ها مزه مزه شون می کنیم.طبق تصورات من موقع خوندن این کتاب، موسیقی متن تک تک داستان ها، یه موسیقی آروم و غمگین بود...
روایت ها برام دوست داشتنی بودن، و یه غم آروم و دلنشین فضای داستان ها رو پر کرده بود؛ غمی که غریبه نبود و اگه خوب نگاه کنیم، خیلیامون اون حجمِ غم رو همه جا داریم همراه خودمون می بریم؛ درست مثل چراغی که بخاطر اتصالی روشن و خاموش میشه...
I don't know why I never wrote a review on this before. It's terrific!!! I was comparing books with a new friend - whom I just connected with- and came to this book -It deserved the Pulitzer in my opinion!!!
It's been some time since I read Unaccustomed Earth.
I read it as an impressionable teenager and many of the nuanced impressions that were stamped upon my mind by this book have been more or less washed away by the heavy downpour of classics that has kissed my bookshelf since.All I can glean out of the dusty recesses of my memory about this excellent collection of Indo-nostalgic short stories is feeling an ephemeral sense of loss.
I'm sure it'll make me feel all right, just the way I like it.P.S: To those who haven't read it yet, Unaccustomed Earth and the monsoon go hand in hand.
Yes, at the risk of raising eyebrows from one and many, I have to admit that I haven’t read The Namesake yet.The first story in the book is ‘Unaccustomed Earth’ and I was lost in this book right from the first page and there’s no use in pretending otherwise.
I have had a couple of people telling me that they were a bit disappointed that some of the stories turned out to be depressing and so a word of advice for those who are yet to pick this book up (if there’s anyone’s left at all) -- Please do not expect the stories to be all sunshine and rainbow.
lahiri's writing style is beautiful.
there are two things that bothered me about this book.
1) lahiri seems to be almost obsessed with elite private universities.
according to wikipedia, she went to barnard undergrad and got 3 masters (english, creative writing, and comp lit) and a PhD from boston university.
2) lahiri also seems to be obsessed with interracial (bengali/white) relationships and leaves no space for intraracial bengali relationships, except for those of the older generations, the immigrants, etc.
as if intraracial erotics were a thing of the subcontinent and steeped deeply in patriarchy.
Having just finished Unaccustomed Earth, I have to say I thought it was fantastic how Lahiri manages to catch the edge of human interactions--all that we don't say to each other throughout our lives.
This is my first experience with her writing other than reading one story.
That previous story gave me a glimpse of her skill but now I have the full blown view of a writer who appears to be at a peak of ability.This has broadened my view of the short story itself in terms of what to expect of it--and of me as I read and experience it.
And I will definitely read all of Lahiri.
اولاً بوس بر ذهن و دست توانای آقای حقیقت که من همیشه عاشق انتخابهاشون میشم. :)) و یحتمل ترجمههاشون.ثانیاً من از جومپا لاهیری فقط چندتا داستانکوتاه خوندم. ینی رسماً این اولین کتابی هست که ازش خوندم. قبلاً هم دوستش داشتم، الان هم بیشتر دوستش دارم. در نگاه اول، موضوع داستانها شبیه بههمن. همهشون سادهن و هیچ تکنیکی خودشو به رخ مخاطب نمیکشه. و این عالیه، برای ادبیات ما که نمونه تمام قد ادابازیه، داستانهای جومپا لاهیری یه زبوندرازیِ جانانهست بهشون. سادگیِ داستانها باعث میشه به عمقشون بریم و درگیر زیرلا
:)) و یحتمل ترجمه‌هاشون.ثانیاً من از جومپا لاهیری فقط چندتا داستان‌کوتاه خوندم.
و این عالیه، برای ادبیات ما که نمونه تمام قد ادابازیه، داستان‌های جومپا لاهیری یه زبون‌درازیِ جانانه‌ست بهشون.
سادگیِ داستان‌ها باعث می‌شه به عمق‌شون بریم و درگیر زیرلایه‌ها بشیم که شاید مهم‌ترین وظیفه نویسنده باشه.
یه کتاب بست‌سلر معمولی و پرزرق و برق نیست که یه ضرب بخونی و تموم شه و بیای گودریدز فن‌گرل‌بازی دربیاری و بعد چندماه که یادش بیفتی، فقط هیجان خوندنش برات مونده باشه.
:همر: *میکروفون را پرت می‌کند و لخ‌لخ از صندلی بلند می‌شود* پایان‌بندی این داستان‌ها شاید معرکه‌ترین بخششون باشن.
جومپا لاهیری توی داستان‌هاش با روانکاوی شخصیت‌ها، ما رو هم درمان می‌کنه.
The exchanges are though everyday life events but with each word Jhumpa kept me occupied to indulge me enough and never abandon a single constructed phrase.Love makes you, breaks you, mends you, distorts you, it’s endless like the extremities and the second tale - Hell-Heaven.
And when love rekindles between a married couple again leading the responsibilities parallel to their life - the third tale justifies itself.The fourth one strikes out odd depicting how alcoholism ruined an adorable brother-sister relationship.
I do wonder how many love-stories never began because of lack of communication or not able to convey or fear destroyed them though destiny kept them colliding.
Lahiri is a treasure. I picked up this collection of short stories because I loved her previous book, The Namesake. These stories all involve Indian families who have moved to the United States and are struggling to adjust. Often there's tension with their children, who only want to fit in with Americans.I couldn't pick a favorite story in this collection -- they all meant something special to me. I hope you find something in them, too.
I just never really get into her books...they seem heavy, tedious and plodding to me. After a few hundred pages, I returned this new one to the library. I guess I am just not a fan of this writer. I know she is very popular and you would think I would relate to the culture, but...I'm just not into it. I thought the short stories were predictable and trite to tell the truth.
Because, of course, art at its greatest is fantastically deceitful and complex.-Vladimir Nabokov, in an interview with PlayboyCurrent English-language writing, especially American writing, seems to strive towards telling "universal" stories that, while they may have "ethnic coloring" if one's name is something like Jhumpa Lahiri, are in the end about families and relationships "that we can all relate to" because the characters are "like your family and mine." Can we say that this is not particularly interesting stuff?
To that end I recommend readers pick a book by Ernest Hemingway or Anton Chekhov, and avoid Jhumpa Lahiri, unless you like knowing what dazzling university your fictional characters have graduated from and what they prefer in the way of breakfast cereals.
Lahiri is an expert at writing about immigrant experiences, of people from Indian origin who have settled since some countable generations in America which I believe stems out from her personal life experience.Unaccustomed Earth is a book put together with eight short stories, each of them rich with imagination and the light tug and pull that you experience in your heart as you read through the pages so efficiently written.The stories: Unaccustomed Earth Nobody's Business Only Goodness Hell and HeavenA Choice of AccommodationsOnce in a LifetimeYear's EndGoing Ashore are all bounty rich with experiences and emphatic emotions and characters are so well developed.
I particularly related to the loss described in a few of the stories in terms of the lead characters' relationship with their parents.
Perhaps it's because they were in situations I could relate to, but have difficulty articulating --- that intense feeling of love and connectedness to your parents, yet a dual sense of space and silence that fills that relationship between parent and child in adulthood.
Nothing monumental happens to the characters in this book, but the stories still left me contemplating the complexities of relationships --- between partners, child and parent, brother and sister.
There's a twist to saying these stories are about "immigrants" because these folks were fully assimilated into the global upper class before they even arrived in the USA.Still, there are ethnic ties that persist.
They vary from the classic immigrant saga to those in which the ethnic factor is attenuated and incidental to the story.One of these stories is about little girls whose mothers drag them to American birthday parties in their saris and yet they grow up to have affairs with married men.
In another story a woman married to an American wrestles with the dilemma of the Indian expectation of having her father come to live with her after the death of her mother.
The story is very touching as Ruma's father (he is widowed) comes to spend a week with her and Akash (Ruma's husband is out of town on business).
The first of the stories "Once in a Lifetime" we meet Hema (the girl) and Kaushik (the boy) when they are young children, as their parents are friends.
Kaushik has a very special bond with his mother which is pivotal to all 3 stories.The third and final story, "Going Ashore", is told in a narrative voice of neither Kaushik nor Hema.
They end up feeling overwritten, and all for nothing.One also gets the impression that this is more an exercise of personal therapy than writing intended for an audience.
The stories are all pretty similar in theme--distant, old-country parents disappointed by their first-generation Americanized children; and Americanized children trapped between two cultures--with variations that are, ultimately, trivial.
All right, already; get some counseling and move on.Finally, as a personal irritation, the protagonists of the stories are all weak, indecisive, uninteresting people who cannot stand up either to their Indian elders or the European-Americans in their lives, even European-Americans who are not out to victimize them.
