https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5355136-look-again
A couple of storyline issues: How did lowlife Beach man always know at the exact moment when a character was going to put two and two together and find them instantaneously just in time to kill them?
It was an illegal adoption since Amy was not related to him in any way, legally or biologically and she KIDNAPPED him with Beach bum.
Weird how possessive the author portrayed Bill when he reunites with Timothy/Will and then just as quickly relinquishes said child, the son he was almost destroyed after losing the first time, over some missing DNA in his blood?
Ellen Gleeson, a REPORTER, sees a age-progressed missing child picture on one of those cards they send you in the mail, and it looks EXACTLY like HER adopted SON, Will, who she adopted.
But even if she did, it would be OK because all of her stories are about the same thing (HERSELF) so they are all the BEST stories because since she adopted her son, WILL, she's got MOMMY MAGIC so she doesn't need to be good at anything else!
MOMMY MAGIC means you can just FEEL the right thing at all times, and makes critical thinking, good judgement, and rationality invalid.
Once Will was in bed, Ellen returned to the mail – the flyer that had the words “Have You Seen This Child?” across the top brought her up short; the photo of the child on the front froze her heart.
It was Will – or if it wasn’t, he had a twin out there somewhere…Ellen had adopted Will when he was eighteen months old – very sick in hospital, with no one who visited or seemed to care, Ellen fell in love with the small child.
The following investigation not only threatened everything Ellen held dear, it also threatened her career and her life.Look Again by Lisa Scottoline is an absolutely heart stopping psychological thriller which I couldn’t put down!
I had never read anything by Lisa Scottoline before either so I was also intrigued and excited; I like discovering new authors, and I wasn't disappointed.Look Again pulled me into the story from the first few pages.
However, as I read on I realised that the only character I was likely to interact with was Ellen.
Although the other characters do not feature in the book very much, what I did get to read I liked.
I wish Ellen's friend, Courtney, wasn't written out in the first couple of chapters, as it would have been nice to have more interaction between the characters.
No way should this book have had a happy ending.
Ellen, the adopted mother, wants to know the truth about her child.
Turns out the birth mother sold her son for money.
The adopted mother, while frantically trying to find out the truth about her adopted son, falls in love.
The birth dad gets custody of the child at the end and then turns out not to be the real father.
Adopted mother and son end up together, mother is engaged to hunk, non-father becomes benefactor to his non-child.
Ellen and Marcelo (OF COURSE THAT'S HIS NAME) get it on.
This book has a plot which has the basic premise that Ellen adopts an infant who has been abandoned in the hospital by his fake birth mother.
Not so her nasty, competitive coworker, who somehow manages to tip off the Real Birth Mother to head to Ellen's house to recover the child.
Evil Beach Man conveniently kills Real Birth Mother (so that plot problem is conveniently dispatched).
Evil Beach Man gets offed, and Ellen rips up the floor boards so there's not blood left lying around to make the house unpleasant for little Will's next birthday party.And this attitude is why I tried to stay very, very quiet during my last book club, because everyone else really liked the book (loved it, even!)
Killer Smile was wonderful for its sense of place being set in Philadelpia, where I lived for several years.
Although, the book had an interesting premise -- namely that of a mother of an admopted boy receives a missing child notice and has a terrible feeling that her son, although adopted totally legally, may be this missing child.The mother instead of dismissing the idea as ridiculous, decides to find out whether it could be possible.
Even the sense of place in this book was not as fresh and rich as Scottoline can right.
The story goes of Ellen Gleeson a reporter and mother to young adopted son, Will.
Not only does she put her own employment at risk but also her sanity as she tries to uncover the truth all the while thinking she may find herself in an impossible position of having to let her son go.This story has it all drama, romance, family bonds, intrigue, suspense, humour and enough fast paced action to keep readers up to the wee hours.
Just when you think you have things worked out then bam Scottoline throws another curve ball.
This book had such an intriguing and promising premise, and such a terrible and disappointing execution. Ellen, an adoptive mother, pauses when the photo in a missing child flier looks eerily like her adopted son. Wow, what a great premise. What would one do if one's child belonged to someone else? What's the right thing, what's the moral thing, what's best for that child?Sadly, the author turns this into a poorly written thriller with an all-too-convenient happy ending. Randomly, this line bugged the hell out of me, but maybe it's just me: "A ladies' room is a girl headquarters."
Wow I couldn't imagine being in her shoes. I would be angry,confused and scared out of my wits that everything you have will change. Crazy.
It was one of those white postcards that says “Have you seen this child?” The similarities between the missing boy and her son, Will is uncanny.
It was like Ellen was looking at a picture of Will but Ellen knew that couldn’t be true as her son is an only child.
Ellen decides to so some investigative research of her own into whom the boy really is and why he looks so much like her son.
I am a fan of Ms. Scottoline and plan to be for a very long time.
This book was an extremely easy, fast-paced read.
It's like a newer, more up-to-date version of King Solomon's judgement.
Long story short, I found this book to be extremely interesting and worth the day it took me to read it.
There's nothing complicated about this book.
It doesn't change the fact that it's interesting and will have every mother wonder what she would do if she found out the kid she calls her own isn't really hers.
FYI this is the first book I've read by this author.
I would love to read more by this author.
It's been years since I read a Lisa Scottoline book, but so glad I decided to catch up on her backlist. Probably would not recommend this to anyone who's adopted a child. A journalist comes across an age-progressed picture of a missing child...who looks just like her son. A fast-paced twister, this is a great re-introduction to Lisa Scottoline's storytelling. Hopefully it won't take me as long to get to her next novel!
If you are a parent you would feel the same way.
I got into this book thanks to World Book Night.
It was the book I decided to hand out to my community and I only hope that those people are as affected by this story as I was.It was like looking into 'real' lives as I read the book.
And then ask yourself, what do you do when you discover secrets that could snatch that child from your life?Lisa Scottoline has a great ability to write a very believable tale.
If you are a parent, then this is a must read and very deserving of 5 stars.
I really have enjoyed all of Lisa Scottoline's past books...always buying the next book out.
This book...is...ridiculous.
I have a hard time believing she actually wrote this.
Just the premise is hard to believe.
Would a mother who supposedly adores her adopted child risk her job ( shes the breadwinner here) and the possibility of losing her child just because she saw a picture on a missing child flyer that looks like her son.
Making every kind of stupid decision a mother could make.
I would call it..being a anti-mom.
She also has no personality to speak of.
I am perplexed.

از ایده اصلی داستان خوشم اومد، اما به نظرم نویسنده خیلی نتونسته بود چیزهایی که تو ذهنش داره رو درست بسط بده و فقط پشت سر هم هرآنچه که به فکرش اومده نوشته.
یه جاهایی از کتاب خیلی تخیلی بود و اتفاقاتی میفته که در زندگی واقعی یک میلیونم درصد امکان وقوعش هست!!تقریبا اواخر کتاب جالب تر بود و یکم هیجان چاشنی داستان شده بود، و اگر قسمت انتهایی رو در نظر نگیریم واقعا یک ستاره هم به زور میشه بهش داد.
This was the first Lisa Scottoline novel that I've read and if this one is any sort or testament to her talent for thrill writing, then I'll definitely be purchasing other copies of Lisa's books. I was glued to my seat while read this in one!
The story opens when Ellen looks through the mail one day and sees an advert for the American Center for Missing and Abducted Children with a photo of a young boy that looks uncannily like her son Will.
And so begins the story...with Ellen unable to get rid of the idea that maybe there is a possibility that her son is the one on the ACMAC card.
Short chapters make this book easy to read.
But I do have to question, why, for a best-selling author, Scottoline repeats phrases over and over in her book.
What is the truth and how does one handle it when the truth hurts more than one can imagine?Ellen Gleeson is a reporter, a single mother and a seeker of truth.
Ellen takes off on a truth-seeking mission to discover who her son really is, hers or someone else's?
She is trying to hang onto her job, doing a story on the heartbreak of murdered children, and keeping her own sanity as she slowly realizes that her son, Will, may not be who she thought he was.Once she realizes danger is just ahead she tries to avoid it, and save her son and herself, but then the real anguish begins.
I just happened to come across this book at Target and decided to pick it up because the little line on the front "What would you do if the face in a missing child photo was your son?" caught my eye.
The chapters were short which kept the book moving quickly and always wondering what would happen next.
I am just guessing here, but I highly doubt that if this were to happen in real life a person would just go out and do their own detective work for such a serious matter.The end of the book was excellent though and the pace really picked up and I enjoyed that.
I definitely think the last 10 or so chapters were the best in the book.
Adoptive mother Ellen sees a missing child flier in her mailbox, and the age progressed picture looks remarkably like her son, whom she had adopted from the hospital after he was abandoned there because of heart problems.
The more she poked around, the more people ended up dead.If you haven't read it and want to, stop reading now!The missing child was, in fact, Ellen's adopted son.
Kidnapper took the ransom, mother skimming enough from it to pay her debts, and he was supposed to return the child.
I really did not like this. The premise of the story was intriguing until it wasn't.
Ellen Gleeson is a busy single mom and newspaper reporter, and despite the fact that layoffs at the newspaper loom on the horizon, ratcheting up the stress another notch, she believes that her life is just about perfect.Rushing home from work one day and eager to face domesticity, she is blindsided by a picture on a small white card – one of those “missing children” advertisements.
At first glance, she is sure that the poor lighting of her porch is the explanation.
Do not waste your money on Look Again by Lisa Scottoline. This author has written many good books. And this story sounds good. However, the book has a lot of problems, such as characters that need to be put back in the oven to cook further, unrealistic concepts, and an ending that makes you question why you read the book. This is why I give this book one star. This book was another gift I received. That is the only reason why I finished it.
I appreciated that this book was an easy read. I wasn't overly impressed with the convenience of certain plot devises used. I think the premise was intriguing. The idea of what would you do if the son you adopted was in fact kidnapped and someone was looking for him. How far would you go to find the truth, and what would you do once the truth was revealed? But then the book cops out and the ending is covered in sugar. Still the material might make for a good movie on the LMN.
This gal can write a page turner. I thought her story concept was wonderful. So why didn't I give the book five stars? I felt bogged down with too many little every day details of our heroine's life with her child. The plot seemed to drag in places. But once the action picked up the book was an entertaining read.
Highly recommend this book. But be warned it is a tear jerker. This is my first book by her and i can not wait to read more books by her. It is so captivating and very moving. The story flows effortlessly and totally holds your attention. I laughed , wanted to punch people , and i cried.
Audio book. Narrated by Mary Stuart Masterson.
But had I had to adopt and see myself in this situation, I honestly have to say I would NOT know what to do or where to start.
The picture on that white card looked identical to her adopted son Will.
Did her son have a twin and she not know about it?
She started uncovering facts in which got her thinking, what would she do if Will wasn't legally hers?
I know in my heart I'd have to give him up if I knew his real family didn't legally give him up for adoption.
This book started out good from beginning to end!
