https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33459.Coyote_Blue
I've been a fan of Christopher Moore's work for years now, and I thought I'd already read everything in his rather substantial backlist.
When I first discovered him, I fell in love, and ordered every single one of his books on Audio and binge-listened to them all.
And as I've seen while re-reading Terry Pratchett, great authors don't neccessarily start out writing great books.
So I was surprised at how solid this book was.
Nice turn of phrase, solid plotting, and most importantly, it made me laugh out loud several times while I was listening to it.
Moore tells the tale of Sam Hunter, ne Samson Hunts Alone, a Crow Indian who runs away from the reservation and begins a new life in Santa Barbara as a successful insurance salesman.
His life takes an unexpected turn when his spirit helper, the Crow trickster god Coyote pays him a visit.This is written with Moore’s inexhaustible command of entertaining and amusing similes and metaphors, I laughed out loud several times.
I could not help compare this book to Neil Gaiman’s American Gods because of the themes and some almost identical elements.
Written seven years later, Gaiman’s work is more polished and more epic, but a fan of American Gods may like this one as well.
Under any normal circumstances, I would never have picked this book up.
The reason I did buy this book was that we were assigned to read it for class.
But as I began to read it, within the preface, I was already falling in love with Christopher Moore’s writing style.Over the course of the book, Moore’s style reminds me of Charles Dickens, Douglas Adams, and John Green, although it is in no way anything but his own creation.
The one-liners and descriptions in this book will literally make you laugh out loud, but you will probably cry as well.
With so many laugh-out-loud moments, Coyote Blue is a fractured fairy-tale worth reading, even if Christopher Moore's second book does suffer from sophomore slump!I'll write a full review when I have time, but for now here's...DAVE'S FINAL JUDGMENT -  THE DEFENSE  - Often hysterically funny - Eclectic cast of characters grab your attention and never let go - Moore's wit and creativity are on full display - Refreshingly original THE PROSECUTION  - Attempts to mix comedy and drama are less than su
With so many laugh-out-loud moments, Coyote Blue is a fractured fairy-tale worth reading, even if Christopher Moore's second book does suffer from sophomore slump!I'll write a full review when I have time, but for now here's...DAVE'S FINAL JUDGMENT - 
- Attempts to mix comedy and drama are less than successful, leaving the dramatic moments ineffective - Moore's absurdist writing style is not for everyone - Story limps to the finish line in a disappointing final act
"Coyote Blue" is certainly not perfect, but still has a lot to offer anyone looking for something a little different, as well as a lot of laughs!
Three and a half stars.While Coyote Blue doesn't sparkle like the other Christopher Moore books I've read, it is still a very funny novel.
Moore takes on Native American mythology is much the same way he played with Christianity in Lamb.
Moore himself is quite the mischief maker especially of the literary type.
I am also getting into the authors' reuse of characters in his books and enjoyed the return of Minty Fresh who is my favorite character from A Dirty Job. Coyote Blue may not be Moore's best work but it is still a good bet for endless chuckles and guffaws.
Very funny. I didn't like it quite as much as some other Moore books like Lamb, Fool, or Bloodsucking Fiends, but still good for a lot of laughs. Loved the Old Man Coyote character.
This is like reading a book of mythology set in modern times with a great love story thrown into the mix to create just the right motivation and imagery.
Maybe it is the one sixteenth Native American in my genes but learning about Coyote one of the great Gods of the Crow Nation was a delight and a spiritual awakening.Our main character Sampson Hunts Alone is an insurance sales man in Santa Barbara going by the name Sam Hunter.
Sam fights the change the whole way as any great hero in any great undertaking takes on his charge fighting and screaming that he doesn't want to be the hero.The book is full of parables featuring Coyote.
This was my first Christopher Moore novel and I'm happily addicted. I like novelists who like their characters. I also like novelists who like to screw with their characters, and even more so, are clever enough to let other characters do their dirty work for them. Coyote Blue is the story of Samson Hunts Alone, who leaves the Crow reservation in flight from a crime he committed, and lives a life built on lies. But then again, so do most of the other characters in this book. The novel is built o
Coyote Blue is the story of Samson Hunts Alone, who leaves the Crow reservation in flight from a crime he committed, and lives a life built on lies.
Perhaps what moves the most in this book is the way that the trickster here causes trouble of the good kind.
But what is most clearly shown in this book is best summed up by one of the characters: "People often need a good bad example to help them figure out what to do." 	The writing is surprisingly good for such an early novel(his second I believe).
Hard to believe that the only reason I read this book, and was introduced to Christopher Moore, is because I happen to be strolling by book store with an outside, sale table and Coyote Blue was sitting right on top. I had never read anything like him before - and never since - and was hooked immediately. Through his words, he creates such perfect pictures of his extremely bizarre characters, their personalities, and the story line that combines them all together.
This book disappointed me. I thought it was rather slow and I found myself not caring about any of the characters. I went into it expecting a fun light and fast read, the kind I was used to by the author, but this, though showing the same kind of humor, didn't quite work for me.
This is one of Moore's earliest works, and while it still has his trademark blend of absurdity and wit, it seems he hadn't yet thrown off the yoke of conventional writing and dove to the deep end where his true, absolutely absurd voice, lies. It's still there, just under the surface, but constrained and trying to escape. In some ways, that makes this a better novel for standard audiences, and possibly a better introduction to Christopher Moore, but it isn't the best Christopher Moore novel. Still, even a bad Christopher Moore novel is better than 99% of what's out there.
I was listening to this book on my iPod while my preschoolers were napping today and I had to shush myself because I started laughing so hard.
Coyote the Trickster has been one of my favorite characters ever since I started reading old fables when I was in college.
I have never read any of the tales that Mr. Moore used for this book, who knows, maybe he made them up, but I loved how he intermingled the tales to explain Coyote and the actions he took throughout the book.
Coyote, being the trickster that he is, guides Sam in the most round-a-bout way possible getting Sam into all sorts of hilarious trouble along the way.
The only Moore book I have yet to read is Lamb (which I started this morning) and so far Fool is my favorite, but Coyote Blue is a close 2nd.
Now if I feel like fucking with a guy cause he's a jerk, I just think "What would Coyote do?" and the answer comes to me.
(as long as the answer is "sleep with his wife and bankrupt him and then rub it in his stupid face")There are also lessons to be learned from Coyote that don't involve gods or god-like powers.
Reading this book, however, makes you awesome.
There were many funny parts to this book -- but the quirky little things got me the most -- Sam trying to rhyme "Gabriella", Yiffer's son being named "J.
The story about the Great Spirit giving names out to the animals cracked me up, especially this paragraph: When the sun went down Coyote looked all over for a good espresso bar, but even in those days they were full of pretentious pseudointellectual animal people who sat around in open-toed moccasins and whined about how unfair the world was, which it wasn't.
Sam Hunter is a slick, shallow insurance salesman whose Native American past is successfully buried...
Sam's life is quickly turned upside down by Coyote as he is forced to confront his heritage and reach out to another human being.
The story is interspersed with Coyote folktales told with a modern twist that always seem to tie into what comes next.
While this novel is neither as pointed nor as humorous as some of Moore's other works, the story is nonetheless a compelling read with interesting and believable characters.
I enjoyed the perspective on at Native American/Crow beliefs - this would be a good companion read to Neil Gaiman's American Gods.
The book is the story of Sampson Hunts-Alone who because of a crime he committed about 20 yrs ago, has changed his name to Sam Hunter and is now a smooth-talking insurance salesman who is well-off and full of himself.
Everything in his world changes when he meets a Native American dressed in black buckskins and Calliope, a girl who he instantly falls for (even though he's never done that sort of thing before).
The Indian is called Coyote, and he is actually a shapeshifting god in disguise and leads Sam on a whirlwind adventure that turns his whole life upside down.
Still not ROFLing, but definitely a funny book, smiles all around. After reading Lamb I decided to read the Moore books in chronological (of writing) order. After Practical Demonkeeping (which I found a bit shallow) this is his second book and this certainly has more debt and more content to it. Modern day fairy tail, love story, 'I need to find myself' psycho drama with elements of Native American mythology - nice. Be ready to run. And pick that up, I’ll need it.’ He pointed to the ground where
Still not ROFLing, but definitely a funny book, smiles all around.
After reading Lamb I decided to read the Moore books in chronological (of writing) order.
And pick that up, I’ll need it.’ He pointed to the ground where Sam had dropped his penis.
‘I’m not comfortable with this.’ ‘I’ll hold it,’ Calliope said, now dressed in the black buckskins.
‘No you won’t!’ Sam said.
Sam put the penis in his jacket pocket.
‘I’m not comfortable with this, I want you to know.’ ‘Men are such babies,’ Coyote said.
This book is full of the normal kooky brand of Christopher Moore cleverness-- there's nothing too deep, but plenty of things to giggle about.
The book follows Sam Hunter, a Crow indian who ran away to Los Angeles as a teenager to escape his past.
All this changes when Coyote (the trickster god and spirit guide of his Crow past) brings Calliope (a pretty hippie) into his life.
Between Coyote and Calliope, Sam's life becomes much more interesting.
Moore's retellings of the legends about Coyote are absolutely hilarious, and the rest of the book is good fun too.
Not only are some characters reused (which I don’t really have a problem with — nothing wrong with recurring characters!), he uses some of the same stereotypes in every book, it seems.
There’s always a mostly-high surfer dude.
There’s always a cantankerous (and probably homely) old lady.
I think what really rubbed me wrong in this book was Coyote himself.
I know he is supposed to be a "trickster" spirit, but I found him more mean-spirited than anything.
I think you’re supposed to find his naiveté endearing, but I didn’t.
I’ll keep reading (or rather, listening) to Moore’s books, but mostly because they’re what my husband wants to hear.
This was a surprisingly great read. I thoroughly enjoyed it and the writing was well done. Will definitely be looking for more of this author's work.
this was a strange little book that I wasn't sure i was going to like when I started it. But in the end I decided I liked it alot!
Old Man Coyote appears to help Sam find his way back to his true identity; Sam had run from the reservation after he had been involved in a law enforcement officer’s death when he was young and in doing so had also run from his original identity.
The story takes Sam, Coyote and Calliope first to Las Vegas, then to Sturgis to recover the child.
It should be mentioned that, according to Wikipedia, some of the characters, notably Minty Fresh and indeed Jesus Christ, appear in some of Mr. Moore’s other works.
It's earlier Moore, before he found his voice, so to speak.
I think he hit his stride with Lamb.
This one seems to stand out a bit from the rest of Moore's catalog; despite the wackiness of the title character, it's more of a serious story.
Coyote, on the other hand, tends to play the role of the doofus, similar to Raziel in "The Stupidest Angel" and Biff in "Lamb".
But a lesser Christopher Moore book is still better than much of what's out there.

Great read, as I expected from a Christopher Moore novel. I wasn't expecting it to make me cry the last few pages, but trust me they were tears of joy.
Such a great mix of myth and fiction with a whole lot of silly farce (done so so well). Loved it in so many levels.
Another good surprise that started slow and became such a mess , that Two thirds into the book I asked myself: “ what in the name of the pissing God’s was I reading?! And why?!”But after all I liked the homecoming story.It’s good to have race diversity in fantasy for a change. As a new father of an 8 month boy, I was sad and shocked by some parts, which is good. Long live the trickster. Oh, and Minty Fresh story was awesome.
I love Christopher Moore, but this is not my favorite of his books. Reminded me a bit of a more tongue-in-cheek, less complex American Gods

