https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66354.Flow
concern for self disappears (paradoxically awareness of self is heightened immediately after flow) 8.
challenge: parents provide appropriate challenges for their childrenQuadrants of flow:Goal: High challenge, high skillLow challenge, high skill = boredomLow skill, high challenge = anxietyRoger Callois: Four kinds of play 1.
samadhi: self-collectednessThe goal of loss of self is opposite of flow, but the first 7 steps yield greater self-control similar to flow.
These 7 steps can be applied in various contexts, with other ultimate goals.Music, Food: Consume passively or savor actively?Memorize facts not to memorize, but to gain understanding and contextualized knowledge.Applying scientific reasoning, mathematical thinking, is viewed as a pleasurable game by experts in the field.
Setting goals 2.
Mr. C collected data from various cultures, professions, socio-economic conditions and stages of life, then discovered certain conditions present during “flow,” including:(1)	engagement in an activity that is both challenging and attainable (if the activity is too easy, we’re bored; if it’s too difficult, we’re anxious)(2)	the ability to keep concentration focused on the activity (so… THAT’S the problem I had as a stay-at-home-mom :)(3)	clearly defined goals that are within the individual’s control ("winning the Pulitzer Prize" is not a self-contained goal, for example, because you personally do not choose who wins the Pulitzer)(4)	immediate feedback (our psychic energy tends to atrophy without some verification we’re on the right track)(5)	deep, effortless involvement in the activity-which removes from awareness the worries/frustrations of everyday life (during flow, you “get lost” in what you are doing because so much of your psychic energy is engaged)(6)	sense of control over your own actions (more of that fighting-against-chaos definition of happiness)(7)	non-self-conscious individualism (paradoxically, you lose yourself in what you are doing and eliminate all self-criticism, yet when the process is complete you are actually a “more complex” individual.
"While humankind collectively has increased its material powers a thousandfold, it has not advanced very far in terms of improving the content of experience."- Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, FlowI found this book very intriguing.
It made me think a lot, especially on what it means to be happy and satisfied.
My argument was people do it because they believe they will be happy and it can eventually become an addiction.
Maybe my argument was under-developed but I think this book supported my view.
A link to the author's TED talk: http://www.ted.com/talks/mihaly_csiks...
You know that uncle you have, who doesn't have any kids and loves to talk your ear off every Thanksgiving, and he's a really nice guy, and he seems to know a lot of stuff, but when you look up the stuff he quotes he seems to always have it a bit off, and he never seems to have a book with him so maybe he did all his reading when he was young, but there's no point calling bullshit on him, and you get a sense he's not really listening anyway -- well, this book is written by that guy.
Flow is the state in which you are so involved in an activity that nothing else seems to matter; the concentration is so intense that there is no attention left to think about anything else, or to worry about any problem.
When it comes to flow, the ultimate goal is to cultivate a personality which makes you capable of entering the flow whenever you desire.
Broadly speaking, as an autotelic person, you can invoke the flow as an antidote to any circumstances that might be plagued by boredom or anxiety.
To cultivate an autotelic personality, you have to first, know what flow is, and what are the comprising elements.
When I was a small boy I would often be missing my father for two straight days only to find out that he had been playing mahjong with friends nonstop for 48 or so hours, not getting tired, or sleepy or even hungry (despite the lack of proper meals).
I never learned to play mahjong.
I’ve experienced playing chess games starting Saturday noontime and stopping only at noontime of the next day, Sunday.
For that reason I felt like I got the idea of "flow" long before I even cracked C's book.
Two might be helpful, but any more than that and you've reached the point of diminishing returns.Another issue I had with the book was the way research was presented.
For that reason he explains that research won't be cited in the usual way.
One problem with this approach is that it makes "Flow" come off sounding much more fluffy and self-helpy than I expect it really is.Another problem with this approach is that today's readers have come to expect a certain amount of academic rigor in their pop-psychology and sociology books.
I can't be the first person to posit this as the reason why he became so interested in how people overcome mental chaos (psychic entropy as it is called in the book) to achieve harmony and, I almost typed satisfaction but that would be missing the point.
Now, if your life has been infused with meaning by or through religion, you might not find this section as compelling as the others.
And when they were younger I could get away with things like, "The meaning of life is it is time for your nap." Or, "The meaning of life is pick up your sh!t.
Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi created the notion of "flow" to describe the experience which we have all had -- but all too rarely for most of us -- of becoming so immersed in and challenged by an experience that we lose track of time, our own self-concsciousness and feel most fully engaged in life.
Folks love to watch TV and movies, eat dinner with friends and so forth, but rarely does that achieve a state of flow.
Doing work or an avocation we love, or -- for some of us, reading a really good book :) -- creates flow, where the experience is just challenging enough that it pulls us beyond our usual limits.
While a large portion of the book is dedicated to examples of how one can achieve this state in all aspects of life and how this can lead to a more pleasant and fulfilling life, from a game developer perspective I found the requirements for such a state much more interesting than the anecdotal evidence.Csikszentmihaly describes eight aspects of an enjoyable experience, though in terms of requirements, there are really four:1) Skill must match challenge, and vice versa.
The goal need not be anything more than completing the task at hand (such as hiking a mountain), so long as the goal is well defined.3) Feedback.
Very interesting book. I admit I was skeptical earlier with some pseudo-scientific terminology, but I become more convinced the more I read. Discusses the nature of happiness, by becoming totally focused in an action/thought, and a less of self-consciousness. Very interesting indeed.
although watching TV requires the processing of visual images, very little else in the way of memor, thinking, or volition is required.
Not surprisingly, people report some of the lowest levels of concentration, use of skills, clarity of thought, and feelings of potency when watching television.
Reading most newspapers and magazines, talking to other people, and gazing out the window also involve processing very little new information, and thus require little concentration." (30)"Olympians do not have an exclusive gift in finding enjoyment in pushing performance beyond existing boundaries.

The whole of the first chapter, which was as much as I could stomach, would have been only 1/4 of its current length if he had spent it talking about his own research and not trying to denegrate other philosophical viewpoints.And that's really what it comes down to: I don't mind too much if an author - particularly an author of research material - toots their own horn just a little.

This book has a lot of parallels with Eastern mysticism which I've studied for some years. I love the fundamental thesis: your only true moments of transcendental happiness in life are when the "I"--the mind-intellect-ego complex--is completely dissolved. You're so absorbed in an activity that you forget yourself. This is consistent with Eastern thought where the complete dissolution of the self is the goal of human endeavor. I was very impressed with how well researched and how clearly presented the thesis was.
This book has a sometimes annoying pedantic tone, but is basically an interesting repackaging of Buddhist ideas with a view to providing concrete recommendations for how to enjoy your life more. I don't think the author specifically aligns himself with Buddhism, but the parallels are clear to me.
It's one of those books that read focus and makes you not feel but think.
The book gets condensed at times, compelling the reader to think, sometimes ponder on his personal life and on human behavior throughout the history.
The crux of the book is what the writer describes as Flow, the action which takes our mind off the goal, time, worries and every other thing except the current moment.
This Flow act commands attention and bring a sense of achievement and control.
Flow is the state where all mental energies are concentrated on an event which results in the person attaining "optimal experience," which is basically happiness.
It read like a run of the mill self-help book, with the usual "its not the situation, it's your interpretation of it," that determines your feelings, etc.
I feel like the book merely points out things that, on some level, we all intuitively know already.
The book is content in merely observing and categorizing human behavior, an attribute of popular psychology, which I feel gives psychology demerits in credibility.
The subject is then suppose to write down their feelings at that time.
He says that these individuals interpret their negative circumstances in a positive way, continually challenge and enrich themselves, and take ownership of their choices making them more dedicated to their goals.
My favorite passage, "One of the basic differences between a person with an autotelic self and one without it is that the former knows that it is she who has chosen whatever goal she is pursuing.
This fact results in two seemingly opposite outcomes.
On the one hand, having a feeling of ownership of her decisions, the person is more strongly dedicated to her goals.
This book explains that true happiness is obtained by achieving an optimal state of mind called "Flow".This state of mind can be best described as one where the participant's consciousness is so involved in its activity that self-consciousness disappears, in a way similar to meditation.This state is most commonly achieved in situations where a goal that participant(s) feel skilled to achieve is set clearly, and for which constant feedback on how close participants are getting.
A second essential criterion would specify that these experiences should lead to the growth of the self on an individual level, by allowing as many people as possible to develop increasingly complex skills.""The Isé Shrine [south of Kyoto, Japan] was built about fifteen hundred years ago on one of a pair of adjacent fields.
One of the best books you will ever read, if you can pick only 5 books to read in your life this would be one of those! The author simply asked "What makes a life worth living?" It's clearly nothing that money can buy. The book is about how people find pleasure and lasting satisfaction in activities that bring them in a state the author calls "flow." Super interesting book, can't recommend it enough.
“Flow [is] the state in which people are so involved in an activity that nothing else seems to matter.” It’s not the restful state of not-being-bothered, but exercising control and exerting oneself with positive results, including a new sense of order in one’s actions and, what’s further, a sense of knowing one’s place in the universe.To study people’s widely varying experiences of flow, the author and his research team at the University of Chicago tried something ingenious.
I know this is an old book but I dusted it off the other day when I was downsizing my bookshelf and gave it another read.
I usually find pyschology books a total snooze, but another artist suggested it to me years ago when we were talking about the state of hyperfocus you get when you're "in the zone" with a project and the feeling of happiness you get from accomplishing it.
Since reading, I've come to seek out ways to improve concentration and performance to achieve this state in more areas of life, more frequently.
Would recommend to all types of creatives and athletes, but can be applied broadly.
Recipe for self-help book:1.
Use big words that sound smart2.
Make lists of what people are supposed to do3.
Tell them why modern life sucks (bad TV, etc.)4.
Compile anecdotes from 'happy' people5.
Throw in quotations from a lot of smart people6.
Be repetitive (why tell people just once how 'happy' surgeons are, or how bad TV is)To be fair to Csikszentmihakyi, I have to say that writing to a general audience about such topics is never easy.
Of course he paints it in the colors of 'scientific research' and smart sounding words.
This book was definitely not worth my time.
Для борьбы с хаосом нужны диссипативные структуры.
В простейшем случае — это пассивная активность, вроде просмотра телевизора.
В лучшем случае — это сложная активность, которая позволяет достигать состояния потока.
Фактически счастье — это победа над хаосом сознания через потоковые переживания.У жизни нет смысла, но это позволяет нам заложить в нее *любой* смысл (цель), который будет помогать нам генерировать непрерывное состояние потока.
В идеале все потоковые активности будут складываться в единую картинку, фокусируясь на цели и фактически создавая ощущение счастья.
Это все очень резонирует с моими мыслями и ощущением жизни, подводя под все фундамент и наделяя пониманием.
من الكتب الصعبة بالرغم من محاولة مؤلفه على تبسيطه كما ذكرالكتاب يحوي ابحاثا عن السعادة، وكيفية الحصول عليهايذكر الكتاب الحالة التي يدخل فيها الشخص عندما يمارس مهاما يعشقها، سما هذا الحالة بحالة التجربة المثاليةOptimal Experienceوذكر أن الشخص في هذه الحالة يندمج بالعمل، وينعزل عن المحيط وينسى ما حوله ويكون في قمة المتعةوسمى هذا الشعور باسمFlowالكتاب من الكتب الكلاسيكية التي يرجع لها معظم من يتكلم عن السعادة، لكن صعوبته جعلتني اعطيه ٤ نجوم
For someone who usually hates self help type books, I've sure been reading my share.
I would say it describes what happy and fulfilled people actually do more than guaranteeing that reading it will make you happy and fulfilled.
The author whose name I have no idea of how to pronounce, describes a state of flow in which one gets lost in whatever one is doing with clear goals.
This could be recreational, occupational or just everyday living type of flow.
I couldn't really argue with any of the points and I've noticed that my life is better when I'm "flowing" but a few examples were a little long winded and some sections didn't exactly resonate.
He gives a quote from one of his respondents, someone who is both a rock-climber and a poet, which I have added to my collection of quotes that I keep around my desk where they will provide a sanity check: "The act of writing justifies poetry."I do, yes, find him a little smug, and his understanding of evolution is woefully unnuanced and kind of wrong--not surprising for someone who coined the term "autotelic" to describe people who create flow out of the materials to hand.
Я уверен, что каждый человек когда-нибудь да испытывал на себе состояние потока: Вы полностью погружены в задачу, не замечаете, что происходит вокруг Вас, кажется, что время почти остановилось, а каждая следующая мысль, действие или движение плавно вытекает из предыдущего без единого "шва" и "зазора".
Время, проведённое в состоянии потока, является самым продуктивным и приятным.Именно этому состоянию ума и посвящена книга Михай Чиксентмихайи.
Так, например, одним из ключевых критериев является "правильный" уровень сложности задачи: она должна быть ровно такой, чтобы её решение не было для нас чрезвычайно сложным, но в то же время не было сильно простым.
