https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/358859.The_Other_Side_Of_The_Sky
It was the first science fiction book I read.
I have taken journeys of the mind, body and spirit into the vastness of the cosmos and into the realms of smallest particles - stories telling me that there is more out there than the little patch of earth that was my world..
It is difficult to write but I think that science fiction may have had a great part in “getting me out alive.”I've never gone back to these stories for fear that some magic would be lost, but it was the beginning of an incredible ride.
A series of short stories, each sending you off the rails. If you are hoping to catch a breath during your lunch break, this is the last book you want to be reading. You will end up catching your breath for a while longer than necessary. But, isn't that obvious - Arthur Clarke!
Contains at least two excellent stories by Clarke: "The Nine Billion Names of God" (later published as the lead story in a collection also containing "The Sentinel") and "The Star." Each may give you shivers at the end--the important point is made only in the final sentence--and "The Star" sympathetically evokes the plight of one man, a Jesuit priest, even achieving a kind of pathos. Time has washed away details of my early reading and probably entire books as well, but not these two stories.

The last stories are way better than the first ones, so he builds up the momentum rather nicely.Every modern SciFi movie has something of Arthur C Clarke in it.
P. 181 - "And sinking into the sea, still warm and friendly and life-giving, is the sun that will soon turn traitor and obliterate all this innocent hapiness.Perhaps if we had not been so far from home and so vulnerable to loneliness, we should not have been so deeply moved.
Many of us had seen the ruins of ancient civilizations on other worlds, but they had never affected us so profoundly.
This tragedy was unique.
But to be destroyed so completely in the full flower os its achievement, leaving no survivors - how could the be reconciled with the mercy of God?"in "The star"
A collection of early Arthur C. Clarke short stories, which, initially, I felt to be incredibly dry and character-free. However, the style slowly grew on me, and once I'd got past the fact that I was being told rather than shown, the tales (some are little more than vignettes) began to grow on me. By the end of the book, I felt it had been worth it.
Another impressive short story collection from one of the masters. I put this right up with the 2 Asimov collections that I've read.Sure, these stories mostly deal with space travel from the point of view of the 1950s, and can be horribly outdated. But they are still fascinating. Highlights:The Star (1956 Hugo winner)Out of the SunThe Songs of the Distant EarthRefugeeVenture to the Moon
From that point on, the collection was a thoroughgoing winner with everything a reader could wish for - charm, characterization, fun, pathos, warmth, wit, depth, twists, humour, human interest, solid science and thought-provoking questions - all of this without ever stooping to being either mundane or, worse yet, snobbish and superior.A few examples will perhaps to serve to whet the appetite.
(This was probably my favourite story in the entire collection)If you're already an Arthur C Clarke fan, I'm sure you'll enjoy The Other Side of the Sky. If like me, you were unconvinced of his right to icon status, try this one on for size.
Précis This is a collection of 24 short stories by Clarke that have a space exploration theme. Some are very short - 3-4 pages, others are more typical and the final one is 38 pages. 12 of the stories are grouped into two very specific themes of six each. For all intents they are chapters in a longer story. My favorites:The Nine Billion Names of God - A computer maker is asked to supply their latest machine to a Tibetan monastery in order to compute all the names of God. When asked why the monks
Précis		This is a collection of 24 short stories by Clarke that have a space exploration theme.
The computer reps don't believe it but the great end line is a classic.Feathered Friend - This is the second story in The Other Side of the Sky section.
This story is a great twist on the concept of time control.The Star - Another Clarke classic that suggests a relationship between a supernova and a historical event on Earth.
Otherwise this a great collection.Final Comments	This is the second collection of shorts I have read by Clarke and I am impressed by his writing style and power.
Along with Isaac Asimov such futuristic fare was meat and bread to those scientific geeks of my generation who were looking for a glimpse of the future world of our adulthood.Perhaps I ought not to have read him again, like I should never watch the original Star Trek re-runs with their cardboard sets and dodgy technology.I found it interesting how on the one hand Clarke was over-optimistic while on the other he didn't think far enough.
Clarke gave us caricatures and formulaic story-lines.All this said, I read the whole book and I liked it, if only because it took me back almost 50 years and allowed me to say, 'Wow!
The Other Side Of The Sky is the first work by Arthur C.
Clarke that I've read now.
It is a compilation of 28 of his earlier sci-fi short stories.
The stories are all really short, each not more than 3-5 pages (except for the last one The Songs Of Distant Earth which is a long romantic one).
The premises of the stories are quaint, some are even funny.
The descriptions of our future space travel is quite simply brilliant in its simplicity and inventiveness.
Infact, each story brings about something new that I haven't seen before in a movie/book or even dreamt of.
A must read.
A great collection of early short stories by The Master. I don't know that it says for his state of mind in the 40s and 50s and for that period itself, but there's an awful lot of apocalyptic stories in here. He destroys the Earth and/or mankind in a number of interesting and entertaining ways. Possibly his definitive collection, definitely recommended (some of the stories even have negative Arthur C. Clarke Points ;) ).
I found this book by accident. I never thought I would be interested in "science fiction" but this collection of short stories by Arthur Clarke convinced me otherwise. The stories are wonderfully detailed and particularly prescient for being written in the 1950's - before the public could imagine a computer.
Always have loved Clarke's short stories. This anthology contains "The Nine Billion Names of God," quite possibly his best short story and one of the Top Ten short stories ever written (IMHO).
http://dms.booklikes.com/post/382205/...
Arthur C ClarkeThe Other Side of the SkyA collection of early short stories by Clarke, of uneven quality, varying from the mundane and predictable to the pretty good to the downright silly...
The second (probably my favorite of the book) is a flowing tale of successive endings, leading to the ultimate denouement, the end of all.
To be sure, the staccato rhythm of this collection makes for good reading if you know you only have fifteen minutes ahead of you.
This is probably a book better suited for diehard Clarke fans and since I am one, I enjoyed it.
A wonderful early collection of short stories; including two longer series.
As noted in some of these reviews; they appear to grow better throughout the book such that the last 8 or so are small masterpieces.A mechanic a lot of these have in common is a solid build up and a reveal that is often flipped in the last sentence; in some cases even the last word.
The star has some short, striking storytelling.Transcience is Clarke showing himself of a more poetic side.
It is leaps ahead of its time and the amount of character radiating from the small cast is enticing.
A pretty minor collection from Clarke, with most of the stories focusing on space flight, told on a purposefully smaller scale and an emphasis on realism.
He's best when he goes for humor, as with "Cosmic Casanova" and "Watch this Space", but most of the stories just don't have much to them.
The two most famous stories of the bunch, "The 9 Billion Names of God" and "The Star" only exist for their endings.
For better Clarke short stories I'd try the "Expedition to Earth" collection, or for a novel, "Childhood's End."
Dated stories by a sci-fi master
Wow! Arthur C. Clarke is a spectacular science fiction author. I don't want to spoil anything, but I loved the twists.
Read this in the mid/late 70s
Spaceship captain unwittingly helps British royalty escape the bonds of Earth and his subjects.3* The Other Side of the Sky [Title Story]Consists of 6 short vignettes featuring the lives of those employed in the first generation of off-planet (mostly orbital) employment.
A chance meeting due to a colony ship's forced landing for repairs on a different long-ago founded colony planet births a bittersweet love affair and reflections on purpose and change and their importance to a human soul.=================================Giving it 3 stars based on averaging my individual story impressions, but overall I wasn't as impressed as I like to be with short stories.
The Collected Stories contains Clarke's life's work in the short story form covering the late 1930's thru the end of the 20th Century.
These are all in one thick giant 600 words-per-page paperback and covers half-a-dozen separate books of short stories (not including later reprints like the one for this review) plus some uncollected items, any of these books making good reading if the reader does not think the mammoth collection would be worthwhile -- or fit somewhere!
The Collected Stories also has a five-book audio version that has the same cover, so don't get confused about that.
The edition I have has the preface copyright date as 1987, and the 4th impression is dated as 1992.I suspect that the contents are not much different from the list in the summary for the 1995 edition--but because I'm going to add more detail, I'll elaborate it in the review, as well.CONTENTS:NOTE ON THE 1958 EDITIONPREFACE TO 1987 EDITIONTABLE OF CONTENTSI The Nine Billion Names of God: This is not the only one of Clarke's anthologies to include this story--but in case you've been looking for a copy, it's in this book.
Clarke is better suited to the novel, but he is also a brilliant short story writer.
The Nine Billion Names of God, as everyone knows, is one of the best SF short stories ever written, and has actually led several people to carry out the exploits in the story in real life, so compelling is the idea behind it.
Not to be overlooked in this collection, are such masterpieces as the chilling Wall of Darkness, The Star (which is also one of the best ever), and All The Time In The World, yet another great story.
rate: 4 starsthis book is a compilation of short stories.
Clarke is a spectacular writer!he wrote these stories on the time that no one has even seen what the outer space looks like, or if it is possible to land in the moon.
that's how amazing and promising his stories if you read it during his time.i'm even half tempted to believe that probably he comes from the future!
that's how awe-strucked i was while reading his stories.
hahaha!i might continue reading the rest, when i feel like going back through time and dwelling on what 'ifs'..
this book and the writer is AWESOME!

Clarke	•	The Nine Billion Names of God — (3/5)	•	Refugee — (2.5/5)	•	The Other Side of the Sky (vignettes):	•	Special Delivery — (2.5/5)	•	Feathered Friends — (2.5/5)	•	Take a Deep Breath — (3/5)	•	Freedom of Space — (3/5)	•	Passer-by — (3/5)	•	The Call of the Stars — (3/5)	•	The Wall of Darkness — (3/5)	•	Security Check — (4/5)	•	No Morning After — (2/5)	•	Venture to the Moon (vignettes):	•	The Starting Line — (3/5)	•	Robin Hood, F.R.S.
It was the following quote from the brilliant NY Times math puzzle website Tierney Lab that turned me on to this collection of short stories.
Two engineers, George and Chuck, are making their getaway, having provided a group of monks with a computer about to finish printing the Nine Billion Names of God. The monks believe the creation of this list will cause the universe to end."…George swung round in his saddle.
He could just see Chuck’s face, a white oval turned toward the sky.“Look,” whispered Chuck, and George lifted his eyes to heaven.
This was an enjoyable collection of short stories, coming in at about 150 pgs and 14 shorts.
I especially enjoyed this books two serials, The Other Side of the Sky and Venture to the Moon.
Although none of these stories would be considered great literature, they are good quick reads, often with an intelligent punch line to finish them off.
Also, remember the time frame that they were written (Between 1947 and 1957) and it becomes quite clear how much of a pioneer Arthur C.
I'm torn between rating this "I liked it" or "I Really liked it", but either way it is worth the read.
