https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19202652-el-pr-ncipe-de-la-niebla
A big change of pace from my nonfiction reading about World War II, The Prince of Mist is a middle grade novel by acclaimed Spanish writer Carlos Ruiz Zafon.
The Carver family decides to leave their urban home in Spain to escape the war.
Young Max discovers that their new family house was owned by a doctor and his wife, whose son drowned many years before.
There is a strange walled garden behind the house, filled with creepy statues of circus performers.
There is a shipwreck just off the coast, and a strange old man who runs the town lighthouse.
Finally, toward the end of life, the period of acceptance begins, and, consequently, of resignation, a time of waiting.”“Max had once read in one of his father's books that some childhood images become engraved in the mind like photographs, like scenes you can return to again and again and will always remember, no matter how much time goes by.”"Max would never forget that faraway summer when, almost by chance, he discovered magic.
""Years later, as he remembered the scene, his family wandering to and fro with their bags while he sat in a corner clutching the watch his father had given him, Max knew that this was the day he left his childhood behind.
Read for the 2015 Reading Challenge #27 A book you can finish in a dayI wish I had read it when I was 12. This is just the perfect mystery for the young ones. Seriously people, read a Carlos Ruiz Zafon book, asap! His style is unique. "Habrían de pasar muchos años antes de que Max olvidara el verano en que descubrió, casi por casualidad, la magia." Hace ya un rato que quería releer este libro porque DIOS SANTO con la reseña que tenia antes XD Susto al miedo! Ademas quería leer algo bueno y corti
Y tiene una forma increíble de revelar los secretos de sus novelas con el paso de las hojas, de a poco en poco.
Pero Zafon tiene una imaginación increíble y siempre funciona.
Al menos conmigo.Ademas que termina siempre de una forma algo triste pero muy linda que no te quitas de la cabeza jamas.
Ya saben, ese ultimo párrafo que hace que recuerdes un libro para siempre o se te olvide con el paso de los meses, El Príncipe de la Niebla no es la excepción.
Siempre que re acomodo mis libros,etc, vuelvo a releer la increíble forma que tiene Zafon de terminar una historia.
3.5Buen libro. Tiene sus errores, el inicio es bastante lento, el final se me hizo largo, pero tiene ese toque Zafón que tanto me encanta.
I picked it up without knowing it was a YA book.The story is a spooky mystery based around the main character, a pre-teen boy, his older sister and the boy’s older friend.
With the war pending, the boy’s father decides to move the family out of the big city to a coastal village.
Of course the boy’s sister and the older friend fall in love.You don’t read a YA book for its literary value, so you get some clichés and lame analogies, like this on page 2 when the boy learns they are going to move: “To him, the news felt like a mad steam train hurtling through a china shop.
It is the first book ever written by Carlos Ruiz Zafon, and it is a ghost story!
Having now read it, I have to admit that while it was a good enough story, it was also quite predictable, and it didn't scare me at all.
In my opinion, you can sense that this is Zafon's first written novel.
Still, it did entertain me, and it is after all a very short read, so definitely pick it up if you are a fan of Zafon or if you just happen to be interested in this ghost story.
Me ha gustado muchísimo.!!! Es lo primero que leo del autor y no me arrepiento de haber empezado con su primer trabajo. Ya quiero saber cómo continúa la historia y estoy deseando leer más de Zafón.!!! ❤Con respecto al libro, me pareció muy original y atrapante. Leerlo en Halloween fue un plus !
Me ha gustado muchísimo.!!! Es lo primero que leo del autor y no me arrepiento de haber empezado con su primer trabajo. Ya quiero saber cómo continúa la historia y estoy deseando leer más de Zafón.!!! ❤️Con respecto al libro, me pareció muy original y atrapante. Leerlo en Halloween fue un plus !
going to watch Paranormal Activity.Several scenes early in this book were SO SCARY that I had to put the book down to read something lighter to de-creep myself before I could fall asleep*.
As soon as the creepiness is explained, I was fine, so it really was just a few early scenes, but I'm an anticipation person and the unknown creeps me out.Anyway, it's a translated book, and that occasionally shows with awkward turns of phrase.
This was my first Ruiz book and it was fantastic! I recommend the audio book, it was very well done and even features music from Ruìz's own compositions. It almost had an Alfred Hitchcock feel to it. Just really good!
3.5 stars. “In an infinite universe, there were too many things that escaped human understanding.” Initial Final Page Thoughts.Um… so no one thought to ring the police or tell any grown-ups what just happened? We’re just going to look back on it as if it was just a crazy summer mad-cap adventure? Um…High Points.Max. I’ve been acquainted with a lot of Maxs recently and I have to say… it’s a good name. Beach houses. Roland. Alicia. Cats in wardrobes. Genuinely creepy. Beautiful writing, seriously
But… well, when you finish a book with about fifteen questions (no joke, I have them written down in front of me) that you want to ask so you understand it… well, it’s not good.There was so much that didn’t get explained and the story was so great and so different and mysterious and intriguing and everything.
Also (x2) I love The Kinks.Scaredy Cat Level.Off the chart.I know a lot of people will be like ‘Um, Jo, it’s 200 pages long and it’s about circus performers and sunken ships and beaches… how can you be creeped out by this book?”Well, my friends, I’ll tell you.Gather round, grab a brew, pull up a pew and I’ll tell you a story about Jack A Nory.
I stumbled upon this book at my daughter’s school library thinking that it might be fun to read a magical, adventure story.
Reading this sent shivers up my spine, put goose pimples on my arms, and it had me screeching like a little girl.The book starts at a nice steady pace when Max Carver’s father decides to move his wife and three children from the city to an abandoned seaside beach house to protect his family from the ongoing war.
The house itself has a devastating history, and Max being a curious young boy starts snooping around.
Book 21 of 2018 : "The Prince of Mist " by Carlos Ruiz Zafron.This has been sitting on my shelf for 
Nice little story, although I wonder if it has enough excitement to satisfy young'uns raised on the Harry Potter series.
This was Ruiz-Zafon's first novel, originally published in 1992, so don't expect the depth and genius of The Shadow of the Wind.
The first half of the book is fairly ordinary.
I kept wondering when it would get scary.
The second half is much more exciting and supernatural.
Fans of his more recent adult novels will recognize the author's gift for using weather and architecture to set the scene and build suspense.
The stage is set for a chilling tale about a ghost ship, a powerful villain, mysterious disappearances and so on - technically, this should make a fantastic spooky story.However, the book soon begins to get quite silly and more and more plot holes and unanswered questions pop up, until it all becomes totally unbelievable and rather boring.
I KNOW you can't expect a young adult book to explain everything exhaustively, but when I think of the detail and care so obviously put into the better examples of children's literature I can call to mind, that isn't really an excuse for the plot to be SO underdeveloped.The other thing that really grated was the indeterminate sense of time and place, which was confusing as I couldn't see any reason why the story shouldn't be definitively set in a real country, at least.
The others not so much, but yes, the main character, which is important.FYI--the way I rate books, 3 stars means the book was "okay" and that I did finish it, but it wasn't a story that really impressed me.
The only thing he actually did discover truly on his own was something I had figured out very early on (and, btw, created another big plot hole).Anyway, the reason I bumped this to 2.5 stars is that it actually would probably be a good book for a middle schooler who likes kinda spooky stories but is struggling with reading comprehension.
This was creepy and scary but wonderful. My only regret was that I statrted reading it in the night. ( had to sleep with the light on ; ))Moving unto The Midnight Palace by Mr Zafon I'm hoping to finish most of his works by the first week in April.Actual ratings: 3.75
Un libro estupendo; me ha mantenido muy al pendiente y ha sido un gusto leer una novela que fue la primera de un autor que me gusta tanto.
4,5Divan!!!!
“O Príncipe da Neblina roubara-lhe o melhor amigo de infância, a única mulher que amara e, por fim, furtava-lhe cada minuto da longa maturidade, transformando-o na sua sombra.”Mais uma vez, Zafón brinda os seus leitores com uma história misteriosa, cheia de cinzentismo, e com algum terror à mistura.Tudo começa quando a família do jovem Max se muda para uma pequena cidade à beira-mar, na tentativa de uma fuga de uma chamada para a Guerra que se avizinha.
No entanto, outras guerras escondidas virão e poderão ser ainda mais perigosas para esta família...Esta mudança drástica não é do agrado de Max, mas quando descobre um jardim de estátuas atrás da sua casa nova, sente que um grande mistério está por detrás delas.
É mais um 4,5 do que um 5.. mas é impressionante como este autor mexe comigo. sempre que leio Carlos Ruiz Zafon lembro-me como é importante ler bons autores!
Tiene bastante el espíritu de La sombra del viento. Las últimas páginas son para sufrir. En resumen, me encantó.
So good.I really liked this book-it was mysterious,interesting,with great twists.I loved the characters,the story,and that ending...oh,man.But seriously,I really enjoyed reading this,mainly because the story was very captivating,I just had to find out what will happen next and what is the truth about Orpheus and the Prince of Mist.Also,this book doesn't contain a love triangle or an irritating main/supporting character.Overall,a really great book.
Lectura juvenil de la mano de Carlos Ruiz Zafón. Libro corto y entretenido que merece la pena leer.
COUP DE COEUR INTERSIDÉRAL.
Si no cuentan los días que estaba en exámenes, sería el libro que he leído más rápido en estos días. Sí, la universidad quita tiempo.Carlos Ruiz Zafón, aunque es su primera obra si no me equivoco, es capaz de crear un escenario tan creíble para el lector. Toda la vida admiraré su prosa. Además, en este libro, introduce algo de suspenso que, evidentemente, está muy bien planteado.Le iba a dar un puntaje de 3.5 porque sentí que los momentos del bote fueron más largos que los de suspenso. Sin embargo, el epílogo es hermoso.
No sabía que esperar de este libro porque no sabía de lo que trataba ni había leído nunca nada de Ruiz Zafón.
Ahora, después de acabarlo, puedo decir que me ha sorprendido mucho y para bien, y que pienso leer todos los libros de este autor.A pesar de que es un libro corto, presenta muy bien a los personajes, a los que acabas cogiendo cariño (o todo lo contrario).Está lleno de sorpresas y a pesar de no querer acabarlo no podía parar de leer.
Estoy deseando poder empezar la segunda parte para ver si se resuelven los misterios que en éste han quedado sin resolver.
Não poderia ter corrido melhor a minha estreia com os livros de Carlos Ruiz Zafón.O mundo fantástico da Zafón faz-nos mergulhar numa aura e ambiente de suspense e mistério, com apontamentos de terror à mistura.Estou ansiosa para começar "O Palácio da Meia Noite" e continuar a leitura desta trilogia
Fantástica trama y fantástico modo de mantener la tensión. He disfrutado mucho su lectura y lo he devorado en poco tiempo porque realmente me ha enganchado. Muy recomendable para un público juvenil.
Como siempre Ruiz Zafón no decepciona con su escritura, sus descripciones, su poesía, y yo me declaro una fanática.La historia me cautivo de principio a fin. Una novela pseudojuvenil, fantástica, diferente y bien escrita.Me dejó con sabor a poco el final, me faltó un giro de tuerca.Es recomendada por supuesto, siempre vale la pena (no tan pena), Carlos Ruiz Zafón.
Max later found out that the house was built by a couple who left the house after their son drowned.When Max found a strange walled garden behind the house, filled with eerie circus figures, the mystery started and we're treated to a cynical and SCARY tale of a legendary figure called the Prince of Mist or Dr. Kane.I love the way Zafon describe the scenes, from the sound and smell of the beach, to the chill the characters felt when faced with terror.
Prince of Mist ending felt a little bit too unfinished.
