https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/989046.Three_Magic_Words
The ultimate feel good book.
God according to Andersen is entirely loving and benevolent.
His idea that evil is an illusion due to human error and errors have no room in a perfect being such as God is particularly illuminating.
Andersen shows how all of God's creative powers is available to you should you have faith and is willing to accept.
If you practice his meditations daily you'll no doubt feel a sense of peace and serenity.Although the name God is used, it shouldn't be confused as a Christian text.
Loved it!I think everyone on the planet should read this book....it's life changing but you've got to be open to the bold concepts and ideas presented. This will be something I re-read every year. Truly amazing!
Powerful BookI found this book to be very helpful and informative. This isn't a quick read. I found myself re-reading several sentences/paragraphs. I especially enjoyed the meditations.
This book turned my world upside down! You have to read this!
I thought that this was a wonderful book. It is a "Law of Attraction" book and much more. US Andersen is very "dialed in" and gives a step by step way of using our minds to advance our life. He often uses scripture and quotes from sages to help make his case. This is a very good book for anyone who has read Wayne Dyer, Deepak Chopra, The Secret etc. The Secret is a good introduction to the L of A but Three Magic Words makes up for where that book falls short.
Fantastic book I recommend it to everyone who is looking for purpose and are trying to find out what life is about.Mind blowing a very interesting and informative book. Looking to find answers . This book is a fantastic description of self. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.
Three Magic Words is subtitled 'The key to Power, Peace and Plenty' and the book are the author's dissertations on life. It is his journey to find reason from page 3: "No circumstance or fact or event or thing exists that does not have a reason, and so it is with man...."
Similar in content to Wallace Wattles' works, but much more in depth.
Great book!Not an easy read, but content is excellent! The message is clear! Will read again! Highly recommend! Thank you Uell S Andersen!
We all have the power of the universe, we, you, me are god.
A-ha moment after a-ha moment still digesting it...
freeing
I am, I always was, I always will be.
In material things our faith habitually follows demonstration: while in spiritual or mental things faith must always precede demonstration.- We are all born equal for we are all one…- Vanity and guilt are the destroyers of attunement, errors of growing self-consciousness, creators of illusion and evil.- Those who cling to their little established worlds are holding onto mere dust.I really resonated with these aforementioned quotes and many more of the ideas shared by U.S. Andersen in “Three Magic Words.” Overall, I found “Three Magic Words” to be a pleasure to read (unlike “The Magic in your Mind” – a book by the same author – which I reviewed at an earlier date).
I enjoyed reading this book.
The author is intelligent and well-read.
His ideas are presented clearly.
The synopsis of the book given here on Goodreads, I think missed the point.
I've also read that this book has been related to the law of attraction movement, but I see that as a very minimal part of what this book is about.
The chapter on "success" was at the back of the book and very short as were the chapters on relationships and health.
For me, the book was about inner change and finding peace and not about getting more stuff.
Each chapter builds on the next and so it took some time to complete it because practice of the principles and aligning if desired to what was offered took some time.A great look at spirituality and consciousness as well as ways of being, very timely and appropriate.
Great book Read all the way to find out the truth. Might ruffle a few feathers but a thought provoking read. Yes
I loved this. This is the first book my Dad suggested that stuck with me and is the reason why I started reading again. RIP and thank you.
I believe the book is great but must read and meditated as often as possible. it is not a book for a one time read, it should be used as a workbook in life.The last 3 chapters are kind of complicated to understand or interpret (at least to me).
Let go and let God. Chapter 7.1310th Meditation: MY body is a manifestation of my knowledge of myself, and my true self is spirit, New life with the perception of this great truth...
eXpand consciousness to include all thingsYou shall love the Lord your God with all your heart soul and mind.
You heal another by treating your own mind for knowledge of his spiritual perfection...
A lot of what he said resonated with me, and I was thinking to myself, "surprisingly this isn't dated." The last 1/3 of the book had me rethink that comment.
The reason the last 1/3 of the book did not resonate with me was because in the last 50 years, we've learned so much, especially about health.
This part of the book bothered me because I feel that many uninformed people will read it, and startbelieving that the way they think on a surface level will make them well, as opposed to coming to the realization that their diet is the major culprit.
But this isn't a health/diet book, so I will move on.All was not lost.

Read the first chapter, loved it so much that I bought the expensive paper version from chinese amazon.But seems to me only the first chapter has strong echo with me. ouch! The rest ... I feel it goes too far.The key question here is: Who are we? To what extent do we have control over our life? U.S. Andersen's "three magic words" is: We are God. This New Age view is harshly criticized by Pastor Rick Warren in his book "Purpose Driven Life".
I am not sure why this is so highly rated. I had a hard time getting past the amateur editing/publication which lacked the polished structure of a professional book. He use the word "that" a ton and mostly incorrectly. I didn't get the positive surge of energy and motivation I usually get from reading the power of though books.
Three Magic Words is subtitled 'The key to Power, Peace and Plenty' and the book are the author's dissertations on life. It is his journey to find reason from page 3: "No circumstance or fact or event or thing exists that does not have a reason, and so it is with man...."
One of the worst reads I have trudged through in years. In theory it gives an idealistic view of how to approach life but I found The Yoga Sutras of Patanjali more enlightening and easier to read. If your a masochist give it a read but be warned you will lose brain cells in the process.
Best book I've read on the power of thoughts, the law of attraction, and "how to get there" where it's automatic, a way of life. Andersen is obviously New Thought. I keep it handy for "spot readings" where I let "someone else" point me to what I need to read in that moment.
This one is a life changer. No way to summarize, but I found it to be one of the ultimate books on the dynamic of the Subconscious Mind. Still processing it all and will have to go back and look at my notes, but there is no fluff here - all good truth. Definitely recommend.
This book has some good ideas but can be somewhat laborious to get through. With that said, I'm happy I read it.
I recommend this book to everyone. It is a great book.
