https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243397.Brat_Farrar
This 1949 suspense novel is a gripping story of deception and hidden identity, set in post-WWII England among the upper classes.
Simon Ashby is about to turn 21 and finally inherit his dead parents' estate, easing the financial stresses on his family and younger sisters.
But all isn't as it seems, and the plot thickens from there...The mystery is more or less disclosed fairly early on, but the suspense builds until the end.
It was a highly entertaining old-fashioned mystery/suspense novel, one of the inspirations for Mary Stewart's The Ivy Tree.
I've not been a fan of every Tey I have ever read & sometimes a reread can disappoint - but not in this case!
Brat Farrar's temptation into a life of assumed identity (or is it???) & intrigue thrills every step of the way.
Every detail of this book works perfectly & meshes together.
We take every careful step with Brat & the scene where (view spoiler)[ Brat has a conversation with his drunk supposed twin Simon (hide spoiler)] is a quite wonderful example of taut suspense.If you don't read any other works by Tey, please read this one - you won't regret it.
so this isnt a mystery novel in the traditional sense, but its got a very compelling pacing to it that makes the suspense parts both immediate and british-leisurely.
or maybe just mystery novels written before 1950.
i have this affliction where i can retain very little of what i hear, but if i see it written, i can remember it quite well (for a time - dont ask me about books i read 10 years ago).
i dont know, except that i remember little facts that stick out in my mind - inconsistencies and whatnot because i am a pretty good close reader.
This is a nostalgic ode to traditional conservative british country values, a book published in 1949, likely set at that same time but which can fit no period in history - it glides over the history, it uses WWII as details for some things in plot ((view spoiler)[ a dentist and his office was destroyed during the war; a waiter lost his sons in a war and his grandsons on the following war; a nurse was killed in the war evacuating a ward to safety; Hitler in the past tense had many doppelgangers (hide spoiler)]) but then totally avoids the occurrence of world war II as having changed society or having influenced the lives of the main characters.
A mystery involving an imposter and a possible crime set in and around a horse stud in the south of England, sometime after World War II, this is a novel which kept my interest from beginning to end.
In addition, while I know nothing about the world of horses in which the novel is set, the way in which Tey writes about that world is entirely convincing.
Neglecting Tey's novels for such a long time means that I missed out on a lot of reading enjoyment.
On the other hand, not having read them before means that I still have that pleasure ahead of me.
Few days after his return he's approached by Alec Loading, an actor who mistakes him for Simon Ashby (the next heir to the Ashby's fortune).
After realizing his mistake, Alec invites Brat to lunch and offers to him a deal (which occurred to him at the moment) ; to disguise as Patrick Ashby, the twin of Simon Ashby who was originally the heir and who has disappeared at the age of 14 and was assumed to have committed a suicide.
So Alec spends two weeks couching Brat about the family members, memories, Patrick personality and hobbies.
After so many re-reads, Brat Farrar by Josephine Tey is still one of the best classical British mystery novels of all time. I like the plots and how the characters were written, I like the strong sense of British-ness that seeps through the story, although the typical classism (everyone in the story tends to judge people by their family backgrounds, their breeds and their social statuses, etc) is pretty difficult to swallow, still the strong points of the story easily manage to overwhelm the weakness, so 5 satisfying full stars.
A strongly delivered story of sibling rivalry. Patrick Ashby was considered a suicide when a young boy, years later he returns to the family seat of Latchetts as Brat Farrar. Wonderful air of time and place and an engaging mystery. Had an inkling early on as to how the mystery surrounding Brat Farrar might unfold but it in no way detracted from the appeal of the story overall. An enduring mystery that manages to hold up over time, well worth a look at.
I have had issues with the some of the reactions of the characters:‘Funny,’ he said, as Brat plunged the shoe into the water, ‘if any Ashby was to earn his living at this job it ought to have been your brother.’‘Why?’‘You never showed much interest.’‘And did Simon?’‘There was a time when I couldn’t keep him out of this place.
It’s not like they were separated at a young age.And why does no-one ask Simon why he thinks that Brat isn’t/couldn’t be his brother when he first hears about him?I believe some of the timing of the story is off, too.The story is set in post-WWII Britain, which puts some of the story at a time during the height of WWII.
Loding hatches a scheme to pass off Brat as Patrick Ashby, a boy who disappeared at age thirteen and was presumed a suicide.
So if the impostor can pull it off, he will be a well-off man and can afford to pay Loding an allowance for life.We see the Ashbys—the remaining four children having been brought up by their aunt on the estate after their parents’ death—preparing to celebrate Simon’s coming-of-age, when word leaks out of “Patrick’s” return from the dead.
There's an intriguing premise here as an orphan is brought to pose as the lost heir to a family fortune: we know this from the start so this is no spoiler - yet, there's still a question about who exactly is Brat Farrar?
I usually like the brisk conciseness of Golden Age mysteries but here it can feel too abbreviated in places, especially towards the end which wraps up with puzzling rapidity.
(hide spoiler)]One kind of mystery shades into another and I have to say I found the later developments unconvincing.
For all my niggles, though, Brat himself is a wonderful character and I would happily have read about him for far longer.
Is it a scam, if not even the scammer is sure it is actually a scam? A good fast paced mystery with just enough deception to keep me guessing as to who was the victim and who was actually the villain.
But the note he left behind was somewhat open to interpretation: it is an apology, not specifically for suicide but for leaving, and Loding's brainstorm upon seeing this young stranger who looks so very like Simon is to send Brat to the Ashbys as Patrick returned from not death but prodigality.
And Simon is just enough short of nice (not vile, but, among other things, not loving the horses as he should, as Brat does) that the half-belief is bolstered by a wish.
Before long, a new question begins to rise, as to whether part of Brat and Loding's ploy might not have a little truth to it: perhaps Patrick did not kill himself.
For three hundred years it had stood in its meadows very much as it stood now; a yeoman’s dwelling.
And for nearly two of those three hundred years Ashbys had lived in it.""But the Ashbys stayed at Latchetts."Chapter 18:"Antipathy or no antipathy, common sense or no common sense, he wanted to know where Simon Ashby was when his twin went over the Westover cliffs."Page 176:"Some day, Brat Farrar, he thought as he walked down the path to the Rectory, you are going to be faced with something that you couldn’t possibly have forgotten."Page 219:“I suppose because you are the only one who doesn’t believe that I am Patrick.”“You mean, don’t you, that I’m the only one who knows you’re not?”"Another splendid gothic mystery written by Josephine Tey which books are becoming available at public domain.
A friend recommended this mystery book to me when hearing of my interest in English authors.
If "Bret Farrar" is any indication of this author's talent, then I am in for a treat.
"Bret Farrar" is a intense look at the English upper classes and their love for well-bred horses.
The wealthy family in the book has a history of traditions, class snobbery and tragic loss.
Like the Tichborne Claimant case, the novel tells the story of a "missing heir" who returns home to his family.
Josephine Tey is a brilliant observer of human nature and she tells a very good story.
I have long hated mysteries, and wonderful reader friends urged me to try this one in hopes that its literariness might break the spell. But by early in the third chapter I was as nauseated as I always am by the conventions of mystery fiction, so no, it didn’t work. I have no criticisms to make about this novel. None. I am just constitutionally not cut out for the genre.
But if you wish for a more traditional mystery, well, Brat Farrar for all it's very singular touches might be more your cup of tea and this is a close second favorite among the Tey mysteries.The title character is an orphan who finds out he bears an uncanny resemblance to a missing English heir and so decides to impersonate the long lost Patrick Ashby.
So many times reading British authors tackling American characters or settings, they just don't ring true, or have this condescension about them--especially a book, like this one, written before 1950.
On Brat’s return to England, in a move reminiscent of The Prince and the Pauper, a distant relative of the heir, Alex Loding, realizes that Brat’s the spitting image of the missing heir, Patrick Ashby.
Alex drills Brat on the Ashby family and directs the imposture where Brat would reclaim Patrick’s legacy.
And what really happened to Patrick those many years ago?Despite having been published more than 60 years ago, Brat Farrar holds up magnificently: Tey does an amazing job keeping readers on the edge of their seats.
Oh, this book!
I felt compelled to up my rating to 5 stars after this re-read.The basic plot is one of my favorites--the return of the heir, long presumed dead.
We the readers know fairly early on that Brat is not the missing Patrick.
The tension is generated by the many hurdles Brat has to clear to maintain his impersonation of Patrick.
Brat just about broke my heart, in a good way.
His inner conflict, as he begins to live as Patrick, contributes to the ever rising tension levels.The story is not all nail-biting suspense.
Happy book sighs...
By this time we know that Patrick is in fact an impostor, Brat Farrar, left on an orphanage doorstep as a baby and since then a wanderer in Europe and the Americas; he has been superbly schooled by a close acquaintance of the family, who wants to split with Brat the income from the estate that he'll very shortly inherit.The trouble is that Brat is far too honorable a person to keep up such a pretense for long; besides, he soon falls in love with -- Simon excepted -- his new family.
The reader knows from the start that the titular character is an imposter, thus sharing his fear of discovery and guilt for misleading a family he grows to love.
(view spoiler)[As soon as Simon met Brat-as-Patrick, I theorised that Simon had killed the real Patrick.
I also liked that things weren’t tied up too neatly (view spoiler)[although I did wonder what happened to Alec Loding.
How would he even find out what happened to Brat?
(hide spoiler)] What a satisfying little mystery novel, written in an elegant, understated style.
BRAT FARRAR (Suspense-England-1950s) – ExTey, Josephine – StandaloneColliers Books, 1988, Paperback – ISBN: 0020088221*** Brat Farrer is an English orphan who, after much travel, has decided to come back to England.
Now about to come of age and inherit Latchetts, the plan is for Brat to claim Patrick’s inheritance and provide Alec with a lifetime allowance as reward.
Soon the suspense begins to build and I can’t put the book down.
Even after the climax of the story, I am still kept in suspense until, at last, Ms. Tey kindly provides me with the resolution.
Anyway, Jody Foster plays this orphan who gets chosen by a con man to impersonate this rich British woman's long-lost granddaughter.
The con man wants to plant Jody Foster at the lady's house because the guy who built the place was a pirate, and he hid his gold somewhere on the grounds.
Jody Foster's job is to find the clues in the house that lead to the treasure, and naturally she ends up getting really attached to her adopted family and the creepy con man loses in the end.
The plot of Brat Farrar is a lot like that movie, is what I'm saying.
I liked it a lot, and you should probably read it.
In this novel of stolen identity, Brat Farrar is enlisted to pose as Patrick Ashby, scion of a wealthy English family, who was an apparent suicide eight years early.
The book traces the tempting of Farrar, and his struggles with his new identity.
Coincidentally, I had recently read The Scapegoat, by Daphne du Maurier, in which the protagonist is thrust, against his wishes, into a similar situation where he must act in the family role of his double.
The books have many similarities.
Both are good; interesting to read together.
Alex Lodings' proposal is that Brat should turn up at the Ashby estate and claim the inheritance and for his efforts, Alex would receive a monthly allowance from Brat.Brat allows himself to be persuaded and after training on Patrick's life and that of the family, he introduces himself to the family solicitors to be identified as the true heir.I won't get into the story anymore except to say that all goes well, and Brat is welcomed into the family as the long lost prodigy.
There are of course mixed feelings, especially those of Simon who now loses the inheritance.The story is an evenly paced work of fiction as we follow Brat through his introductions and new life with the Ashbys.
Years ago, Margaret Turner, in her eighties and legally blind, passed on to me a tattered anthology of mystery novels by Josephine Tey. Brat Farrar was my favorite.
As the story starts, Brat agrees to pose as the heir to a fortune for personal financial gain.
Instead, I find inspiration that we, too, are able to be transformed.Also, Tey interweaves a beautiful theme about our need to belong throughout the story.
158)This mystery novel is chock-full of charming, intricate characters: the rector, George Peck, is described as being ugly, but possessing great kindness and wisdom: “One of George Peck’s charms was that he listened to what was said to him.” (p.202), Aunt Bee holds the family together and shows Brat undeserved kindness.
Awesome book!
In my rediscovery of Josephine Tey, this is the best yet, perhaps her best ever in my opinion.
The mystery is intrinsic to the story, but the book is so much more.
My only hesitation is that I don't think Tey completely explained how the protagonist solved the murder.
If any of my friends have read this book, please help me out!
It would have been helpful if the book had included a map.
Anyway, my friend Rose is right, the character development in this book really makes it stand out.
I would probably give this book a 4-star rating at any other time.
I won't say much about the story because it is described in all the blurbs and it is hard to say much that hasn't all ready been written.
The fifth star goes to the vague chance of timing.
It gave me the distraction I needed just at the right time.
I could disappear into my headphones and be cosseted by all the words flowing around me.
The absolute luxury of having someone read a story (well) to you where you hang on to every single word.
For that, I give the fifth star.
This has one of those witty English families, the Ashbys, living in organized chaos that I just love.
He is approached with a proposition - to impersonate the missing heir, and split the inheritance with the plotter, who will coach him in all things Ashby.It goes against his principles, but our protagonist is persuaded not by the gains to be had, but the idea of family.I love to read this in tandem with Mary Stewart's The Ivy Tree, which has the same plot device, but with a twist.
A fine old classic mystery. Plenty of suspense and mystery, and interesting enough characters and places. The ending was fine, ok, but lacked a certain amount of punch that would have done a little more justice to all the ways you could imagine Tey could have gone with this. Still, a satisfying read.
