https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145009.The_Sociology_of_Religion
Soon another CC opened in my own neighborhood on the north side and I became a friend of the owner, Candace.
Indeed, it turned out that she lived only two blocks from my own building in the Rogers Park neighborhood.The connection with Candace got me to favor Coffee Chicago over its competitors.
It was at this outlet that I read most, if not all, of Weber's Sociology of Religion, having picked it because Max Weber was on the core list of "great books" read by students at Shimer College where I hoped to obtain a teaching job.Maybe it was the beer alternating with coffee, maybe it was because I knew too much--or too little--about religion, maybe it just wasn't the right time.
Max Weber in this book explains how religion played a fundamental factor in the developement of economy in different societies. This book is composed for three essays being last one the most interesting because Weber tells a journey what had to United States where protestantism in its different denominations helped in the building of. Also in the course of book we can find some concepts about power, State, rationality, economy etc. At least for me is a good work and whether you want to know about sociology, a good sociology I recommend you this book.
A full study of religions and how they work by a secular German author and sociologist from the late 1800's. Considering it's been over a hundred years since this book was published, the material has aged surprisingly well. It's still a slog of a read though.
"سوسيولوجيا الأديان" هو مجموعة من عشرة نصوص كتبها ماكس فيبير بين 1910 و1920 يقدم فيها أسسه النظرية، وجمع هذه النصوص يجعلنا نرى التطور الفكري وبعض التغييرات في المنهج (العمل في المجتمع سنة 1913 / العمل الإجتماعي سنة 1920 وهنا يضيع الكثير من المعنى في الترجمة).الجزء الأول من الكتاب إسمه "إجابة نهائية على الانتقادات"، وفيه يجيب ماكس فيبير على انتقادات وجهت لكتابه "الأخلاق البروتستانتية وروح الرأسمالية"، معتمدا في ذلك على بيداغوجيا كبيرة وموضحا كل ما قد يسبب عدم الفهم الجيد لاطروحته التي نلخصها كالآتي : إكتشاف مجموعة من الأسباب التي أدت إلى خلق مكون مؤسس لروح الرأسمالية الحديثة.
The rationality of religion. Its interesting how much of an influence this must have been for Adorno and Horkheimer when writing the Dialectic of Enlightenment. So much of their treatment of magic and "primitive" religions seems directly based on Weber's work. One oddity though is how few references or sources Weber cites in this text. (ie none!) I guess it was the era. But you are left wondering how much of the empirical detail can be trusted. How reliable are his portrayals of Islam, Hindu etc. ?
Obra sorprendente y desconcertante. Weber interpreta comparativamente los fenómenos sociales de la religión desde distintos planos teóricos simultáneamente. A veces confuso, en general revelador (habría que ver cuánto debe Adorno a Weber), este autor tiene una capacidad tremenda para descubrir las relaciones internas entre cultura, religión, economía y antropología, en virtud de esa categoría suya que logra hacer tan fértil: la "afinidad electiva".
Perhaps I should have put up a buffer between this and Durkheim's "Elements of the Religious Life" because the first 2/3 of the book were dragging completely. Might be because I am familiar with a lot of the territory. The insights came at the end for me about economics, class and caste. Some wonderful observations about the history of religions in relation to their social structure with economics, art, culture and other things.
If this were not a required reading, I won't be able to slog through more than 20pages. And , no I won't assiGn it to my students... Unless I wanna torture them.
More useful than other theories of religion, but I still didn't like it.
Easy to read and understand, I found this a very worthwhile read. Recommended!
good book for theology
Desacralizing and rationalizing all the aspects of religion.
I don't think this book was anything special but the problem about sociology of religion is broader than what Weber had written.
The worst is, these books are full of broad generalizations which are most of the time wrong.
If you are a non-Westerner and you know more than mainstream history, while you are reading such books, you find out too many forgotten things and exceptions that it becomes impossible for you to read them patiently.
Such universalistic claims are doomed to be wrong because no one can know everything about such broad concepts.
A detailed and multilayered work.
Part of my relative dislike of this book is that I don't care a whit about soc of religion, part of it is that Weber is such a labor to read.
اه
An interesting take on how religious people group themselves and on how groups of religious people think.
This is not a page turner! It was however, extremely interesting! Kudos to Mr. Weber for having the stamina to write this.
This is a hallmark book on sociology. Weber writes like a historian and is not as conclusive or decisive as one might hope for, but he is an evident polymath in religion. This is a worthy read.
