https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5984292-memories-of-the-future
These were also concurrent with the decline of the Soviet avant garde, and their gradual replacement with the institutional kitsch of Stalin's joyous peasant propaganda.These stories are very much a grab bag.
One story (not a bad one, for example) is about a mad scientist who wants to make time go in a circle, and another is about a street peddler who sells philosophical systems and aphorisms.These are the sort of stories that Stalin's dreary little world needed, and also the sort which our slightly less dreary world could use as well.
A philosophy of life is more terrible than syphilis and people - you have to give them credit - take every precaution not to become infected.
Especially by a philosophy of life.Obscure authors are only exhumed with praise, not sober reflections on potential inclusion in the canon.
No, hysterics and mashed analogies are required; its as if ______ had a baby who grew addicted to mescaline and rewrote _____.
Rebirth also requires nudges and casual mention.
I suppose that was Goodreads has become a nudging machine for the authors without bodies.
I thought you could.http://www.nybooks.com/books/authors/...This collection is astounding.
The train is on the track but it won’t go to any capital town… It is The Branch Line and past the way stations of dreams, the train will go straight into the irreal future… If you can jump then jump right now…Sweet dreams cannot withstand reality, sleepy reveries wear out faster than socks; whereas a heavy dream, a simple but well-made nightmare, is easily assimilated by life.
Especially by a philosophy of life.Without imagination there would be no man but only some dumb and inert creature.
If you read these stories while populating the shadows in the back of your mind with Kafka, Szerb, and Bulgakov, you will find yourself imagining a literal existence of the zeitgeist, expecting it at any minute to startle you with table-rapping or producing manifestations of luminous text-textured protoplasm.
How is it possible that Krzhizhanovsky and Kafka did not know each other unless the transmission was clairvoyant, the medium the ethereal zeitgeist?
(view spoiler)[They offer a one-time-only promotional sample of a curious tincture which, when applied to the walls of your abode, will increase your living space.
And then he says, "I wonder, citizen, if you wouldn't like to acquire a philosophical system?"You are looking through old books.
You could read Krzhizhanovsky as science fiction.
Or you could read him as political satire.
So these stories, written in the 1920s, sat in a desk drawer, published finally in 1989.I interrupted my reading of Victor Serge's  Midnight in the Century to read this.
I liked how, in the telling, Krzhizhanovsky would channel characteristics of his characters.
But our inventor was still there:There's a very peaceable little worm that bores into walls and cabinets and desks and taps: rat-tat-tat.
In the meantime, here’s seven fantastical stories.
‘The Bookmark’ is an early, essentially metafictional story about storytellers losing control of their characters and other opaque meanderings.
‘Someone Else’s Theme’ continues the literary satire, spliced with a fantastical layer that makes the story impossible to pin to one thing .
halfway into certain pages it seems the story has morphed into another entirely.
‘The Branch Line’ and ‘Red Snow’ are entirely fantastical dream-narratives with shades of Bulgakovian magic, closer to surrealism in style.
These of course were euphemistic ways of saying ‘your stories don’t glorify the communist party’ and this is the very reason why didactic soviet fiction is banausic and dead to posterity while Sigizmund’s stories are alive and offer a refreshing unique approach to Russian literature during the 1920’s.
But it was this sacrifice that carved out his niche: first in the basement of a Soviet archive (like a Borges story), then into the pale post breakup Russian light, and finally into the international literature canon, where his stories stand as complex as his name.
96)Well, I can't speak for anyone else, but my brain certainly feels like a pillow.The seven stories in Memories of the Future, all written in Moscow in the 1920s, didn't quite get Sigizmund Krzhizhanovsky (may I call you Siggy?) in trouble, but they were still too subversive--not Soviet-friendly enough, that is--to be published; they certainly didn't capture the mood the government wanted the times to have.
As penance for being somewhat shallow, I'll also admit that a lot of what Siggy--sorry, Sigizmund Krzhizhanovsky--wrote went wayyy over my head.
If you're familiar with the sort of fantastic reality of writers like Schulz, the younger Karinthy (Metropole), Kosztolanyi (Kornel Esti), Bely's Silver Dove and Yuri Olesha (Envy) you will find it a bit easier to digest these oddities.
If you say Krzhizhanovsky three times fast whilst looking in the mirror you would see a free coupon appear for his next NYRB release if Sigi controlled reality as well as he controlled his prose.
This is very dense reading apart from The Branch Line which shares Szerb's light touch.
My biggest challenge is trying to decide who to share this book with next.
This is a five star story, and it's worth reading the collection for it alone.But it's not the only good story in Memories of the Future, there are several other strong tales in this Krzhizhanovsky compilation (though none to match The Bookmark).
Lastly comes the longest, titular story Memories of the Future, as much of a hard science fiction take on time travel that I've ever read, though it also discusses the psychological aspect of such a topic as well.


Some American reviewers call him “surrealist” because the reality he describes doesn’t correspond to their definition of reality.
What would people do if the word “surrealist” didn’t exist?
Maybe the Soviet reality of the time was surreal, but poor Sigizmund had no intention of being “surrealist”!
His characters not only become independent of their creator, but turn into critics, denying their author’s existence—“they are the book’s atheists.”In one of the book’s dialogues, one of the characters asks, “What distinguishes a creator of culture from its consumers?”The answer is the best definition of the artist I have ever read:“Honesty”—and this is why:What distinguishes them is the fact that, unlike other people, the creator gives back what he receives on credit from nature.
Get the book and read for yourself.Krzhizhanovsky's background appears to be very similar to another Polish Ukrainian Russian - the composer Karol Szymanowski.
I keep looking for a picture of Krzhizhanovsky, and when I find it I think it will be the face of Shterer, the protagonist, that I see as I read the tale.What else can I say?
THE THIRTEENTH CATEGORY OF REASON - a ghost tale of living too long.MEMORIES OF THE FUTURE - HG Well's Time Machine update for the end of history.
These stories bring forth the "end of history" in each profound last paragraph and every last line an epitaph.Fine addition to the ever growing wealth of literature dealing with the failure of the bourgeoisie intellectual pencil pusher, haunted by his own irrelevant mortality.
The book is a compilation of seven short stories.
It is also a story about the harsh living conditions in Moscow at the time of the writing.
Again, it tells the story of the circumstances in Russia at the time the author is writing the book.
The masses of people and that many of them are merely like walking corpses due to the oppression and depression.
I've always enjoyed stories about time and time travel.
It is because I only enjoyed three of the seven that I gave the book three stars.
Read my favorite first if you like.
Writers and teachers of writing speak of narratives being either character driven or plot driven; the stories comprising Memories of the Future are driven by ideas, oftentimes breathtaking in their scope, intelligence, and force of imagination.
Reminiscent of his contemporary, Andrey Platonov, Sigizmund Krzhizhanovsky's forays into surreal landscapes provide both the author and reader a vantage point from which to view Soviet Russia--through a distorted lens into a funhouse mirror--as perhaps the safest alternative to a direct examination of an environment in which artistic and other individual freedoms were suppressed.
The story "The Branch Line" is a case in point.
Heralded as a great surrealist, Kafkaean master in that piece and elsewhere, I was taken aback to find K.'s short stories pretty mundane and, well, not very good.
The opening story about a paste that makes a man's very small room expand exponentially was good, too, but the rest was shrecky.
Also, some of the over-described stories from the back cover all occur in one particular story, a little misleading.
For instance, as awesome as it sounds there is no story about the "Eiffel Tower" running amok: that's part of another story and is of dubious worth.
Russian (actually Ukrainian of Polish parents) avant-garde with lots of originality, sweet aesthetics, and smooth ideas.....with several areas of seeming drag as well. Certainly see the connections to Kafka, Bulgakov, and Schultz that others have noted, and also agree that Mr. K's pieces here deserve high concentration and multiple reads. If I can commit to the latter at some point, perhaps I'll find this fine work at 5 stars instead of 4. In the meantime, I register this fellow under "originators" rather than "influenced by."
This is a small hidden gem of a book. Mesmerizing writing, bordering on the surreal and fantasy, a cross between Kafka and Poe, sometimes. Acute insight into the human condition and the historical circumstances of his time. Dense in meaning, it asks for a devoted reader and rewards you greatly with beautiful writing.
Yes indeed, that is some fine, surreal Russian writing right there (and quite a job of translation). Stories much weirder than stories generally have a right to be, plus a long one about a time machine inspired by H.G. Wells.
In each of Sigizmund Krzhizhanovsky's seven stories that are found in Memories of the Future, a character takes to the streets of Moscow to reflect on the central focus of the narrative.
I loved Quadraturin and The Bookmark, liked Someone Else's Theme and The Thirteenth Category of Reason, had mixed feelings about Memories of the Future, and couldn't get into the others at all.
Krzhizhanovsky wrote the way he dreamed, imagining new ways to evaluate life, death, time, and creativity while he wandered through a park in Moscow.
Difficult to rate as a collection as I loved a couple of the stories and found three or four of them hard going.
Prior to reading this collection I first read The Unbitten Elbow (12 pages, 99p on Kindle) to see how I liked SK, and I loved that story.
I think it might be one of my all-time favourite short stories.
As for this collection, every story feels like a work of genius, but I was struggling to keep up, and the meaning at times was lost on me.
In the surreal world of Krzhizhanovsky, there exist characters who could be called purveyors of themes; people who can turn any matter into a theme, who sell philosophical systems and supply others with aphorisms.
They seldom seem happy, and we don't really know if what they sell is ultimately of any use or if it is simply a madman's ramblings, but they sure are interesting characters.I would say that the author himself is one such purveyor of themes.
I think that to get the most joy out of this book, the reader should treat it like an, admittedly cluttered, anthology of themes and ideas, rather than cohesive stories.
If people knew how to live like the sonata, in three movements, interspersing meetings with partings, allowing happiness to go off for short spells, for a few bars at least, they mightn’t be so unhappyp100: Pascal was the first to separate the world of reality from the world of dreams.
He begins every day–after putting on his shoes and washing his face, before throwing on his jacket–with an exercise.
This exercise works like this: he walks over to the wall, puts his back up against it and stands there in an attitude of utter resignation.
All the facts are there, but the particular colour and local detail of the time can feel lost, the emotions faded away.
In fact Krzhizanovsky's work was a knowing rejection of the world around him - the tales are all about poets and writers (I'm pretty sure always the author himself in one guise or another) taking refuge in the fantastic, plotting against reality from a world of ghosts and the undead.
This time it's a collection of several longish short stories by a Russian author.
Most of these stories were written in 1920s, but feel incredibly contemporary.
The writing style feels more in line with fiction of today than of the past.
There's almost a post-modernist angle to many of the themes in the book, especially those dealing with the end of ideas and the bankruptcy of literature.
There were so many great concepts and details in these stories that I continue to think about, now a month after finishing the book.
Too surreal for me. I don't have the intellect or imagination to enjoy these stories. All I have in my mind is a blur of fables, dreams, parables, characters, hopes and fears.
These stories are wonderful.
Krzhizhanovsky has a deft way of blending phantasmagoria with prescient observations about the convoluted shape of life in 1920's Moscow, with all of it's crowding and daily upheavals.
He spins out dark little dream worlds with eerie precision, 'Quadraturin,' 'The Branch Line' and the title piece are each perfect ruminations on space, dreams, and time.
Not only does he antedate Borges and Cortazar (who are the closest comparisons I can think of) with his weird, Russian Avante-Gardishness, but he might also secretly be responsible for the giant monster movie.
Rampaging Eiffel Tower, folks.
Quadraturin: Surrounded yet alone in the ever-expanding confines of your own home crying out for help, screaming for human contact.
A ‘beware what you wish for’ story or a tale revealing how someone, anyone, could get lost in a totalitarian regime à la Soviet style.
Either one is valid, either one is chilling.The Bookmark: The famous Eiffel Tower runs towards the vaunted East!
France is thought leaning towards communism, how to show it?
Krzhizhanovsky’s solution is having Gustave Eiffel’s behemoth heed the call of Mother Russia.
A stranded cat might represent the struggle between family life and urbanisation, who knows?
