https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/429766.The_White_Monkey
Nueva joyita del amigo Galsworthy.Esta es la continuación directa de uno de mis libros preferidos 'La saga de los Forsyte', y aunque está claro que no llega al nivel de aquella, sigue siendo un libro maravillosamente bien escrito, con un análisis incisivo y muy claro de la sociedad inglesa de los años 20.Soames no es tan protagonista (ooohhhhh!
Es una novela mucho menos ambiciosa que su anterior trilogía, ligera y suuuuper entretenida (al fin y al cabo forma parte de la trilogía "Una comedia moderna") pero sigue siendo Galsworthy en todo su esplendor ♥Seguiré pronto con la trilogía porque este hombre crea adicción.

The epic story of the Forsyte family continues into the 1920's with the focus on Fleur and her husband Michael Mont.
Fleur, who is marrying Michael because she can't have her cousin Jon Forsyte, struggles with a marriage that is empty of love and a sense of purpose.
Soames is caught in a banking scandal that throws him once more in the public eye.
What is sadly missing from this story is anything about the Jolyon Forsyte side of the family.
I actually found myself cheering for Soames in one part.
A good story, but I miss Jon and Irene.
The previous volume ended with the patriarch at the family plot reflecting on the passing of an era.
Although this book picks up only 2 years after the end of the previous, it is clear that England has begun a new chapter.
Watching the lives of this family, and glimpsing moments in the lives of a few new characters, somewhat peripheral ones, the reader is drawn into the restlessness of the age.
The mood jumps off the page and permeates the reader who longs to find some restored meaning in the next installment of the Chronicles.
The White Monkey is the first novel in John Galsworthy’s second Forsyte trilogy, entitled A Modern Comedy and is the fourth book out of the total nine that I plan to read this year.
I may have to go in search of e-book copies of them.The year is 1922; the Labour party are in the ascendency, The Great War still a bitter memory.
Their marriage is a little one sided, for Fleur has never quite forgotten Jon Forsyte – the great love from whom she was separated two years earlier.
Y con este libro empieza una nueva saga de los Forsyte, que sigue justo donde terminó la anterior, con Fleur casada.
Sigue hablando también de la élite económica de su país, por supuesto, y reflejando el mundo de los negocios, siendo éste una trama secundaria del relato, aunque como he mencionado, tal vez le dé más importancia a la descripción del mundillo cultural de entonces.Como siempre, está escrito magistralmente y de forma muy clara, siendo tan fácil de leer que se llega al final en un suspiro, y estoy deseando seguir con la trilogía.
I was pleasantly surprised by "The White Monkey" and recommend it strongly not on the basis of continuity with Galsworthy's previous books but for what I consider his very thoughtful observations on the perspective of English society after WWI.The symbol of the white monkey is key to the whole undercurrent of the novel and is a far more important issue than any of the lesser illustrative dramas that engage the characters, however interesting/distracting they may be.
For that reason, I was forced to read the story from the fourth volume as I go backward.
It would be naive of me to suggest that this has not affected my understanding of the book.
The challenges I experienced when reading this book is understanding the nature of the relationships between the characters.
Be that as it may, I did my best with what I have and kept going back to the family tree to understand the characters better.
Another challenge I had is understanding the history of the characters.
This I will only understand after reading the initial volumes.
Perhaps 3 stars. Very well written as shown by the fact that Galsworthy managed to change my feelings about Soames from dislike bordering on hatred to sympathetic understanding in this first novel of "The Modern Comedy" but I missed the grand sweep of the family connections. This entry in The Forsyte Chronicles focuses almost exclusively on Soames & Fleur and a new couple called Bickett. Some of the other members of the Forsyte clan made fleeting appearances (such as June swooping in and (vi
Very well written as shown by the fact that Galsworthy managed to change my feelings about Soames from dislike bordering on hatred to sympathetic understanding in this first novel of "The Modern Comedy" but I missed the grand sweep of the family connections.
This entry in The Forsyte Chronicles focuses almost exclusively on Soames & Fleur and a new couple called Bickett.
Some of the other members of the Forsyte clan made fleeting appearances (such as June swooping in and (view spoiler)[enlightening Michael about Fleur's passion for her cousin Jon (hide spoiler)] and then never appearing again).
Here we still meet Soames (and learn a touch about Jon and his mother, Irene, in the interlude that follows), but the main focus of the fourth book of the Forsyte Saga (and the first one in the Modern Comedy series) is on Fleur, her husband Michael and the passions and rush to live of the generation of the Roaring 20-es.Fleur is "collecting" the curious types of her level of the society; she longs for passion and yet is "French enough" to evaluate her life in cool head and heart.
This symbol is not, of course, the story itself but it is the essence of the story.Among the many characters outlined in The White Monkey, readers are introduced to Soames Forsyte, his daughter Fleur, and her husband, Michael Mont.
I also found the novel to be a treasure of wisdom and reflection as characters considered their times and particular circumstances.As an example, Fleur contemplates love in her marriage and wonders, "What good in thinking?
Considering the interesting story, the delightful wisdom, and the compelling characters, the effort is well worth your time.
Well, it's hard to sustain the same level of brilliance across multiple novels and, much as I remembered, Volume 4 is where Galsworthy begins to falter.
Problem is that the new characters - Fleur's husband, Michael Mont, and his family, his war buddy, the poet Wilfrid Desert, the artists and writers who populate Fleur's salon never rise above the level of cardboard cutout figures, dragged on stage in an obvious effort by Galsworthy to cover all his bases.
Let's hope things improve in Volume 5, though I seem to remember that he doesn't actually regain his original form until the sixth book.
The white monkey refers to a strange painting that Soames Forsyte inherits from his dying uncle George, one of the original old-school Forsytes.
The book concentrates mainly on Fleur and Michael's new marriage and their transformation into a married couple.
The major conflict is when Fleur finds herself caught between Michael and his best friend, and she must choose to abandon her marriage or stay.
I was quite angry with Fleur for the majority of this book, because she knows what she's doing.
She creates quiet conflict that threatens to explode much like Soames and Irene's marriage debacle in Book I.
You can't help admiring, and then finding, unbidden, that you have actually come to like Soames.
The development of his relationship with Michael Mont is like listening to the gradual and reluctant burgeoning friendship between Alan Coren and jeremy Hardy on The News Quiz.
A seasoned and clear sighted observer coming to recognise that wisdom and decency are not the sole preserve of the old.
Running through the novel is the oncoming Great Depression and the problems of the German economy affecting the insurance firm that Soames is on the board of.
The denouement makes you want to stop and join Michael in shouting "Bravo Old Forsyte".
Awww yes, Soames reading self-help books, buying balloons, and telling off the shareholders. You tell 'em Soames. Fleur continues to be Fleur. Also, gotta love the good old days when, if you spurned a lover, he would go travelling in the middle east, instead of, like, drunk texting you at 3am.
Works of art are paid for and do not strike back, while people might even as they are guests in one's home.Soames won't take anyone speaking ill of, much less hurting, his beloved daughter - she is the one occupying his whole heart, a heart injured by loss of his first wife Irene and his total lack of comprehension of why he lost one he hankered after and thought he had rights to - after all he had done everything in terms of marrying her respectably and giving her all the financial security she never had had, and more - so all the more he is passionate in his taking care of his daughter while being sensitive and delicate with her, qualities he acquired perhaps due to loss of Irene with whom he was neither.So he chooses to confront rather than let go and kill by ignoring a treacherous behaviour directed at his daughter in her quest of a life of salonniere in society.
The titular white monkey is the subject of a painting that Soames buys from cousin George's estate, then gives to Fleur.
It is a Chauncy Gardiner of art, as Fleur, Michael and Soames tend to read things into the paining, such as religion, decline of Empire, and other psychological/sociological meanings.
But it "could" just be a painting of a white monkey with the rinds of an orange.Fleur is now married to Michael Mont, but enters into a rather innocent dalliance with WW I poet Wilfred Desert.
There is an O'Henry quality to their story, as both intersect with the Monts and Soames.
This work - White Monkey - is the first volume of the Modern Comedy - second part of Forsyte Chronicles - and as such begins where the Forsyte Saga left off, with a six years gap that includes what was then called the great war and is now known as the first world war.
In this, the fourth of nine novels in the Forsyte Saga, the focus shifts from Soames to his daughter Fleur.
Completely selfish, she feels injured because she can't have the man she wants, so she settles for Michael Mont, a decent, hardworking man who loves her completely.Bored and restless, she decides to have a child.
It will please Michael, and she might find it amusing.
Like the white monkey of the title (an oil painting acquired by Soames to put into his growing collection), Fleur sucks the goodness out of the current moment and discards the rind.
This is a fairly slight book but he writes so well that you don't notice quite how slight it is.
The story isn't worth much but of real interest is how the 1920's was so like the current age in the big picture.
A different and sometimes difficult younger generation, new technology somewhat grudgingly adopted by the older generation and a social whirl to fill up empty time whether it needed filling or not.
Important to be seen to be very busy and in demand.
Probably worth the time to read if only to draw the parallels.
(Purchased second hand from Amazon)
The Fourth book in the Saga finds society at loose ends...Fleur particularly...and she almost falls into an affair with Wilfred Desert that would be as empty of true passion as her marriage to Michael Mont...Soames is sniffing around foreign deals that his club has gotten into and he smells failure or money loss and possibly some hanky-panky none of which Soames can stand. An undercurrent of discontent. Can't wait to continue the Saga.
The White Monkey is the first book of the second Forsyte trilogy, "A Modern Comedy". Most readers (and BBC adaptations don't make it past the end of the first trilogy, and one can see why: there is little outright drama that follow's Fleur and Michael Mont into their early married life, with Soames hoping for a grandchild and instead finding himself in business imbroglio. Still, it's a finely crafted little novel, and Galsworthy's observations of the 20s as it was being lived are telling.
Three and a half stars. The ending with a story from Jon in America made it worth finishing. It is so geared to the time frame in which it was written, that it's difficult to wade through some of the references to minutiae from the culture of the period. If someone is very interested in the 1920s time period, they may find these references more intriguing. The plot was decent, but it will be a while before I delve back into the Forsyte Saga.
This might be my favorite author. He's in that class of authors that makes me happy to read every time. There are some very beautiful parts in this book. He sees humanity like so few authors ever can.
Exceptional!
Every book, in every way, Galsworthy makes us love Forsytes while stabbing them and everything thwy came from with sharper and sharper weappns.Say that 25 times!
***Spoilers regarding plot points in previous novels in the saga***In this fourth (of nine) volumes of the Forsyte Saga, the story focuses in on one branch of the family, Soames, his daughter Fleur, and her husband Michael.
In fact, his ethics will lead to troubles for him, but we admire the way he sticks to his ethics.Fleur and Michael are of that generation of which so many died in the Great War. Their friends represent all that is modern and skeptical of the old ways.
Если бы только что-нибудь нас увлекло или разозлило!
Мы отрицаем религию, традицию, собственность, жалость; а что мы ставим на их место?»Ох и долго же шла у меня эта книга.
Мне интуитивно более близко мышление тех времен викторианской и пост-викторианской Англии.
Новое поколение, и, особенно, Флер ввергают меня в отчаяние.
Книга, собственно, очень отражает ту атмосферу аморфности, и мне, как читателю, тоже хотелось каких-то более интересных событий.Понравилась линия Виктории и ее мужа.
Да, поступок Виктории явно порицался, он был очень рискован по меркам пост-викторианского общества.
И мне чисто по человечески жаль, что он оказался в таком положении, рядом с Флер.
My book, published in 1969 has a Bobby, an old bus, several buildings in the background, and Tony Bickett selling balloons on the cover.
Don't remember Bickett in the TV series, which is a shame.
Both figure prominently, cleverly.Michael Mont LOVES Fleur.
However, I can see that Mont is good at business, with cutting thru red tape; that Soames is aging and dotes on Fleur, who cares little about anything.
She becomes pregnant, Michael and Soames agonize; it's a boy.My book also has "A Silent Wooing," about Jon Forsyth and Anne Wilmot(?) another very short story at the end.
Brilliant! I can see why John Galsworthy was awarded the Nobel Prize and why his work is still in print. I found myself reading some passages over and over, reveling in the rich language and apt descriptions of people and society. An example, from Chapter Five: And out of the corner of her eye she watched those two. The meetings between 'Old Mont' and 'Old Forsyte' - as she knew Bart called her father when speaking of him to Michael - always made her want to laugh, but she never knew quite why.
The meetings between 'Old Mont' and 'Old Forsyte' - as she knew Bart called her father when speaking of him to Michael - always made her want to laugh, but she never knew quite why.
Bart knew everything, but his knowledge was beautifully bound, strictly edited by a mind tethered to the 'eighteenth century'.
Her father only knew what was of advantage to him, but the knowledge was unbound, and subject to no editorship.
'Old Mont' had faith in tradition; 'Old Forsyte' none.
Yet 'Old Mont's' talk was so much more up-to-date, rapid, glancing, garrulous, redolent of precise information; and 'Old Forsyte's' was constricted, matter-of-fact.
