https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77037.Admiral_Hornblower_in_the_West_Indies
What I thought was a novel turned out to be a series of 5 distinct yet connected short stories of Hornblower's time as Admiral of the Fleet in the West Indies.
This illustrates the concept of honor better than any other story I've ever read, I think.2 - The Star of the South - Hornblower proves he's a man of his word & yet slicker than a New York lawyer.3 - The Bewildered Pirates - A bad situation all around.
The short stories all were & I highly recommend reading them & all the book in chronological order, if at all possible.
Well, this is listed as the last Hornblower novel (in chronological order). It is like the others a good one. HH is now in command of the post-war fleet in the western hemisphere and what we get here is sort of a series of small adventures leading up to the travail of a hurricane...I liked these and suggest you might want to try these from the first. Some excellent historical fiction with adventure, romance and action.Enjoy.
What a day.
We went to the farmers market, a swap meet and ate lunch at long John silvers.
To top it off I finished the Hornblower series.
It is a cut below all the others in action, adventure and HH heroics.
It still was a captivating and exciting novel.
As always Hornblower himself rose to the occasion and saved today.
I can fully recommend this series to anyone seeking an adventurous novel that features a truly heroic protagonist.
I will be saving these books in the attic to give to a grandson should that ever occur.
This volume can be quite frustrating to a reader who is working her way through the series and wants to know what happened after "Lord Hornblower" -- the ending of which is as gripping as that of "Ship of the Line." "Flying Colors," the book following SOTL, starts within a day or two of the prior volume's concluding battle and continues the story seamlessly.
Admiral Hornblower, however, starts years after Lord Hornblower concludes, and you just have to imagine for yourself what has happened in the interim.
A few good naval adventures in Admiral Hornblower, but a few clunkers too.
An enjoyable finale to the series. This harks back to some of the earlier books, which were more short story anthologies than novels. It's nice to see a glimpse of post-war life in the early 19th-century British navy. Nice as well to see the series end on such a personally happy note for Hornblower, particularly after the uncertainties presented in Lord Hornblower. Hornblower's character isn't under such scrutiny in this installment, which offers both its good points (Hornblower is more likable) and its bad points (Hornblower is much shallower). The individual installments are all rip-roaring and solid.
As a result, I picked up the final book, read a few pages into it and then discarded it, sensing monotony and boredom (in a comparative, Hornblower, sense).
This decreased significantly after the first chapter and turned into a compilation of short stories dealing with the always interesting and cunning Hornblower.
The book might well have ended there and turned out to be a fairly satisfying retirement ...
but Forester adds just enough depth and touch to his story and especially his Hornblower character, that he pushes each work beyond entertaining reading into classic literature.
This is the last complete novel in the chronology of its leading character, the redoubtable Horatio Hornblower of the British Navy.
(Other Hornblower books were written, but they were either incomplete novels or they were written out of chronology with the narrative.) Though not quite the end of Hornblower's life story as chronicled by C.S. Forester, it is a bit of a farewell, nonetheless.
It's becoming clear that there are only superb Hornblower books.
It is one of the most consistent and enjoyable characters ever put into print over several books, and I am sorry to see the series nearing its end.

By the time I got to the final book in the Hornblower series, I was more than tired of our hero and his ego-centric antics. The writing in 'Admiral' has devolved into a set of short stories - still with Hornblower's self-conscious personality issues - and not a novel with a comprehensive plotline and arc. After having read through and loved the characters, history, and naval environment of the Aubrey/Maturin series, it seems hard to believe that Hornblower could be such a disappointment. Ah well, this collection is going back to Half-Price Books.
My journey with CS Forester's Hornblower series began in 2015 (thanks, Goodreads).
At the time, I was looking for a naval-based historical fiction to read, and Patrick O'Brian's Master and Commander series proved to be too technical for my taste (I promise to come round to it again).
To be honest, I am a little sad that my journey with Hornblower has come to an end.
There are other naval-based historical fiction out there, of course, but there is something endearing about Hornblower as a character.
Somehow, despite being at peacetime, this novel had more action and intrigue than most of the wartime Hornblower novels.
There's lots of good fun in this little novel.Hornblower is given his first post as admiral, and he's over the West Indies(this could have been gleaned from the title, but I felt the need to say it for some reason).
He runs into pretty much every issue a peacetime admiral of the time period might have to deal with.There a mutiny(of sorts), he hunts a slaver, and much more!
A fitting ending for Hornblower and one of the better books in the series.
I really liked it. This one was a little different as it was more like a combination of short stories.
This is Hornblower sailing about the West Indies. What else needs to be said?
The short format (each section amounts to about fifty pages, so they are longish short stories) makes Forester skate over many of the strengths of earlier Hornblower stories and his characterisation of the character almost perfunctorily - the eccentricities which made him both human and more acceptable to modern tastes (such as his opposition to hanging and flogging, his famous daily baths and his tone deafness) are really only there as gestures.
It is the earlier novels, dealing with his time as a captain, which are the strengths of the Hornblower series.
I just finished reading the entire Horatio Hornblower series, 11 books, all of which were available at my public library.
I first read some of the series as a teenager and, while I enjoyed them at the time, I feel my life experiences have enabled me to enjoy them a lot more now.
The other thing that impressed me was Forester's knowledge of the sea, the ships of the British Navy, and the life of the men on those ships.
It confirms the correctness of my earlier, very witty, analogy that Hornblower is to Jack Aubrey as Ulysses is to Aeneas.Having now completed the Hornblower cycle, I dearly wish I had read these books before the Aubrey-Maturin series.
But they simply can't match the affection I feel for Patrick O'Brian's books.O'Brian imbues so much more humanity and humor in his characters than does Forester.
O'Brian's treatment of the lives of ordinary seamen is superb, and his command of period political, medical, and natural history is utterly complete.The Forester novels are about Hornblower cleverly solving difficult problems, but this technical exercise can't match the warmth of O'Brian's novels about the interaction of shipmates.
Perhaps different from other Hornblower books in that it is a collection of arcs rather than one big adventure story, Forrester ends Hornblower's career in much the same way his readers have come to love the stoic outside soft inside midshipman. A mellow Hornblower approaching 50 is given more comedic moments as he balances his duty as an officer with responsibility to his West Indies peacetime fleet. These characters are colourful and sometimes overshadow Hornblower in their quirky mannerisms. A wonderful swansong for the man with the second most horrible name in fictional history.
The last of my reread of the Hornblower series. Very Enjoyable
I've loved reading through Horatio Hornblower's life from a shy, seasick seventeen year old midshipman who didn't know what a top gallant was to an admiral of the Royal Navy who can take one look at the sea and tell which way the wind is blowing, how it will effect their course, and come up with brilliant plans on the spot in the middle of a wild battle.
Forester was a superb writer who created vivid and clear pictures of what was going on, his sea-battle scenes are beyond exciting, his storms wild, his characters complicated and beautifully done.
This is the last Hornblower novel chronologically, although Forester would go on to write two more set much earlier in Hornblower's career.
Hornblower is now a rear admiral of the blue, and a peer, with some twenty-plus years in the service.
Bolivar does not make an appearance, although his troops do.Most of the second half of the novel is set on and around Jamaica, including a very interesting inland excursion from Montego Bay that appealed to me.
And then the admiral's time is up and he sets sail for England, perhaps never to serve on active duty.
All in all, however, I very satisfying conclusion to his active career.
A collection of short stories focusing on Hornblower’s time at C-in-C of the West Indies; all equally brilliant and worthy of additional time and energy but unfortunately are brief encounters. Each one presents Hornblower in the final stages of his illustrious career with his determination and sense of duty ever present regardless of what is thrown at him.
Note this review applies to the whole series, not this book. Feel in love with this series as a teen and recently picked up the whole series and re-read. A little bit of navy jargon, but you can blip over it without loosing much. An incredible growth arc of a character, his strengths and insecurities.
I am so proud of myself for reading all of the eleven Horatio Hornblower books in the series. I liked them much more than the mini-series which I can hardly remember viewing! Horatio Hornblower is an admirable man with intelligence, imagination and an inventive mind. If I was on the high seas in those days, I would willingly trust my life to Admiral Horatio Hornblower!
I do like tales of seafaring...but I'm not quite so fond of the, this is why I have to be a British dickhead moments. This book was harder to get through than it should have been. It did have pirates, however.
I really enjoyed this concluding volume to a great series. It was a little jarring to go back to the episodic (almost short-story) organization of the first book. But each story was so good! I couldn't believe how creative Hornblower's solutions were to exceptionally thorny problems.
Picked this one up at the library book fair. I enjoyed the action and found it an interesting read. You get to visit New Orleans, Puerto Rico and Jamaica in 1820. You get a plot to free Napoleon, a slaver, pirates and a hurricane. I might just read another in the series.
This was a good book but part three of the west indies books, still it did ok as a stand alone. This was a good read.
A somewhat tired ending to a generally excellent series.
Excellent historic naval adventure, well worth a read
246 - 2018
