https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/353822.Castles_in_the_Air
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.
"Castles in the Air" does not compare with the wit and intrigue of "The Scarlet Pimpernel" or "The Elusive Pimpernel;" nevertheless, the Baroness managed to maintain my attention—if not exactly excite my interest—throughout the story.
A consumate con man, Ratichon nevertheless seems completely incapable of identifying a kindred soul.Ever destined to have his nefarious schemes foiled in some way or other, as often as not by his lazy, ungrateful clerk Theodore, Ratichon, convinced of his own genius, at least aims high, ever ready to risk the penal colony in New Caledonia for a gain of ten thousand franks or so.All seven stories are very much in the same vein, but it's hard not to enjoy the adventures of such a reprobate, always on the make yet indignant when suspected of duplicity, or when others decide to use him in the same way.
His final comeuppance is highly satisfying.Good (dis)honest fun.
This is a short story collection of Ratichon's amusing adventures while helping those high in society solve their problems.Most of the Orczy books I've read (well the only two I've read ...
Hector is probably the worst "confidential agent" in the world as he always misunderstands what is going on (and we know he does).
However, the stories usually work out all right in a humorous blend of smarter people manipulating events or things going "wrong" in the right way.
And by the end of the book Hector is outsmarted to his own advantage, which was a nice ending because by then we are fond of him.
Castles in the Air consists of several entertaining short stories introducing Hector Ratichon, a volunteer police agent (or as he sometimes introduces himself - a private inquiry and confidential agent). In today's terms - we would probably consider him a somewhat deft con man – but one who is also extraordinarily naive when it comes to beautiful women.
I love how Ratichon points out the flaws in others even though he exemplifies the flaw ten times more than the person he blames. The protagonist makes this novel: a truly awesome caricature of self-serving greed.
I picked it up because Baroness Orczy wrote Scarlet Pimpernell. Each chapter is a short story with the same main character, Hector Ratichon. I like the writing style, but Hector was not my favorite antagonist. I didn't read the last two chapters because Hector was oblivious and annoying.
Emmuska Orczy is the author of the Scarlet Pimpernel books. I love those books and I enjoyed this one also.
This is a collection of stories all with the same main character. They are amusing and fun. A quick light read.
Enjoyable short stories recalling the adventures of an early 19th century French rogue. Quite the character.
Very amusing.
