https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138516.Alice_in_Wonderland
Rereading this book after finishing Heartless by Marissa Meyer gives this childhood story a sinister/dark feeling. Lewis's clever ways with words laced with his talent of combining logic and fantasy makes this one of my favorite reads even as an adult!
I watched so many adaptions, from really old Disney cartoons to the modern Tim Burton adaption with my favourite actress Helena Bonham Carter, and I even participated in a play that was based on Alice in Wonderland.
Now, especially in the Tim Burton Movie they added a lot of the sequel, Through the looking glass and what Alice found there, into the movie and left out lot of characters that might have been so minor, but they were so lovely in the actual tale!
I'm sorry but I just didn't get it. I even read this for a Philosophy class because the professor recommended it so highly. Still don't get it.
If you don't love this book I can't be your friend.
So weird, but in a good way. Alice' adventures in Wonderland reminded me once again that there are no bounderies when it comes to writing and creativity. Such an inspiration!
Curiouser and curiouser...Why does everyone seem to hate Alice?? Alice in Wonderland is a bizarre story, but what it gives is a sense of adventure and something I live by; "The impossible can be possible - you only have to imagine it." Alice has had such a strong influence on hundreds, if not thousands, of people who can relate to this bumbling, curious, imaginative little girl.
Me gustó mucho aunque al principio no podía acostumbrarme al estilo de la escritura pero después me encantó. Definitivamente mi capitulo favorito es cuando conocemos por primera vez al Sombrero. Las dos estrellas no significan que es un libro malo sino porque no es mi estilo.
It's a classic; you can't just not read it. I think this was my fourth book that I ever read and it was gifted to me by my grandmother. Couldn't make it to the 3rd chapter without falling asleep - the struggle was real. However, as I grew older (I believe around 10), I fell in love with this book and kept re-reading mad hatter's parts. The story is so beautiful and so very quotable!
alice can't catch a break lmao. even the mice punk her, and theyre drunk.
I don’t usually give classic books less than 5/5, but for this one I feel disappointed. Maybe because the voice of the audiobook was awful, and ruined the book for me :/ I might reread again someday
Jim Dale was the narrator and I think he MADE the book that much better. He is a great narrator.
Menuda locura de libro, pero qué locura más buenísima. "We're all mad here"
I very much enjoyed the strangeness of this read. Also, the dialect of the words added so much to the story.
Alice travels through the rabbit hole to magical world known as Wonderland.
The Queen of Hearts sends Alice with the Gryphon as her escort to meet the Mock Turtle.
An important quote from the book that reinforces the theme is “We're all mad here.” This is important because it shows that in Wonderland, everyone is crazy in their own way, and that it is okay to be different.
After reading the last page of Alice in Wonderland, the reader is left with the feeling that there is a place for you in this world.
Alice in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll made me thing about people's major insecurities and doubts in life, the author represents this trough Alice, the protagonist, that would represent ourselves and her adventures in wonderland that would be the life.Alice, when she first felt into the rabbit's hole, she found a little door where she wanted to pass and a magic bottle; if you drink it you'll grow bigger or smaller, she tried several times to get the correct size but she couldn't, so she get frustrated and sad, just like people in real life when they can't get what they want despite their efforts.
Les gens se demandant quelles drogues avait consommé Lewis Caroll pendant qu'il écrivait Alice au Pays des Merveilles n'ont juste pas compris l'essence du livre.
Là est le génie de Caroll, et ce Pays des Merveilles partagé entre le cauchemar et le rêve insensé est, d'après moi, l'invention la plus fascinante de la littérature "pour enfants".
Car Alice au Pays des Merveilles est un conte pour tous les âges, qui traîte de manière dissimulée la perte de l'innocence et de la naïveté enfantine et l'entrée dans l'âge adulte.
I can see how some people might think it promotes drug use only because of how much it is associated to getting high or tripping i suppose.
It is a good read I think but I would recommend this to older students in high school.
Alice goes into an alternate universe and discovers that it isn't her first time there and I think it is taking us through her mind set of coping with what is going on in her life.
After the she returns it is like she had her eyes opened for the first time and makes life changes.
I read this book because I thought it was something else.
Someone was telling me about a really interesting book about a girl who found a place in her dreams called wonderland and said it was really exciting and interesting.
This one is kind of bland and plain, and the main character doesn't really have a personality.
Unless they meant that the cartoon is the thing that's interesting, maybe.
The book must be too deep for me, all of the lessons my friend was talking about seem to have went over my head.
Or maybe this is a sequel to something I never read?
Alice in Wonderland was never one of my favorites, but I decided to read it for one of my book challenges since it wasn't very long. Alice kind of gets on my nerves. She questions everything and gets a little hateful. There really isn't much more I can say about it other than it wasn't my cup of tea.
Alice wants to know what’s going on and who she is but she seems to be constantly changing and the things around her are as well. So Alice tries to find her way through wonderland Then she finds that wonderland isn’t as bad as she thought it was but as she starts realizing this she comes back to her own life thinking it was all just a dream.
I wish I read this earlier. I loved the story, even though it has no plot. The characters really kept the tale going and interesting. I know that Lewis Carroll was NOT on drugs when he wrote this but I did learn that this tale is a social commentary on England in the early 19th century. I'm going to read up on some criticism on that but overall I love the tale.
Alice in Wonderland is a lovely children's tale. But it's so charming that I believe anyone can read it. It's very different and strange but it's a fascinating world. Alice doesn't really speak like a child but she definitely acts like one which I think proves something very great. The whole story over all is very imaginative and 'wonderful'. 5/5
It was wonderful reading this with my son. We laughed and wondered together, and we discussed the peculiarities of Wonderland at length. My son was delighted with the riddle, and we tried to figure it out together. An amazing experience.
I gave it one becasue I couldn't give it negative stars.
Wow, es mucho más loco y random que la peli de disney JAJAJA dios mio, me encantó
very strange not at all a children's book. Dealt with a lot of madness. I did nit really enjoy this book.
Snurrig eventyrhistorie for barn, med ordspill for voksne. Ikke verst på engelsk, mye bedre enn de norske oversatte versjonene jeg harlest tidligere.
review to come!!
~3.5 Stars~
Curiouser and curiouser!
