https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30134847-waking-gods
Sleeping Giants had already started to answer some questions, and with the atmosphere of mystery dwindling, I wasn't sure exactly what a sequel would offer.
Well, seriously, I don't even know how to convey how exciting, fast-paced and unputdownable this book was.Waking Gods is a heart-pounding thrill ride.
I love sci-fi books that seem (not like I'd know for sure) grounded in scientific fact.
If you like sci-fi that opens up worlds of possibility, that makes you feel smaller than you knew was possible, that offers new, thrilling and scary answers to some of the oldest questions -- READ THIS SERIES.
Rating: 4.5 starsThis was a great sequel, and I really liked how the action is taken up a notch.I also fell a little more in love with some of the characters in this one... interestingly I started to really connect with some that I disliked in book 1!
Wow!
That was pretty cray!
I felt like I slipped through the worm hole!
Maybe I should have re-read the first one again, but it's all good.
Well, not really because of a death!
I love Rose, Kara, Vincent, and Eva. Oh and Themis =].
I feel like I am forgetting someone.
Time travel?
Cloning?
Robot Aliens?
The hell did I just read?
There's a lot more and some things that went over my head but when you start talking science stuff, I drool a little bit.
With that being said, I think this second book was pretty amaze balls.
I liked the book but I made the mistake of listening to the audiobook and it kinda ruined it for me.Eva had the most annoying voice ever and every time she would whine I would want to throw my phone at the wall. Also, Vincent accent was completely off. French and French Canadian accents are completely different.https://youtu.be/QHsNHlxZJf4 - extract of the audiobook so you can see for yourself in my June wrap up! :)
ARC provided by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.I’ll be honest, I didn’t expect Waking Gods to be this good but the second book in the Themis Files series by Sylvain Neuvel is truly a stunning improvement over its predecessor.The plot began 9 years after the end of Sleeping Giants and the tension is so much more evident here.
In the first book, the plot spend most its time figuring out the origin, politics and the mechanics to use the giant turquoise robot (now named Themis) and introducing the main characters of the series, Waking Gods built upon those foundation wonderfully.Right from the start, the story started with an arrival of a new robot in London.
Re-read 2/17/18:Thrilled as hell to get the ARC of book three, I decided to go on a tear through the first two again.
GIANT ROBOT ACTION.I hated to see who died and loved to see who took over.
We'd already heard tales of them in the first, from strange long-lived people who'd stayed behind to see through the bloodlines, but this is where things get really wonky.And where the death-count starts rising.And if you're more interested in the characters and their arcs, never fear.
Do I love this tale and the odd kinds of twists and turns surrounding our original researcher?
Even knowing what will happen I want to read the first one and any subsequent ones that's how much I enjoyed this one.
The format was different and the story wasn't told directly but through logs and reports which usually is off putting for me, but I think here it only added to the plot line.
Overall really enjoyed this book, looking forward to eventually reading the first one as well, as soon as I can get the number of books I currently own down to like 100 maybe...
"Right is a luxury we do not have at this time.
It is an imperfect solution to a less than ideal situation.
It took a while during book 1 for me to connect to the writing style, and actually UNDERSTAND what the bloody hell was happening.
What book 2 gives us is even more giant robots and ALIENS!The aliens are mad.
They are angry with the human race and have sent 24 different giant robots to wreak havoc on Earth.
Watching how the humans deal with this new phenomenon is awesome and terrifying and I am very excited for the final installment!
Jason and I also have an interview with Sylvain Neuvel on FanLit, so check it out!It’s nine years after the end of the events in Sleeping Giants.
Nine years after her mystical reappearance as a younger version of the character who died in Sleeping Giants, Rose is still traumatized by the idea that she’s just a clone or copy; she spends a lot of time, perhaps too much, gloomily navel-gazing.
It's a great production with a full cast of voice actors and it elevates the story so much.
In SG I thought Neuvel's authorial voice was a bit uneven and a little inexperienced, but it seems much more confident and comfortable here.
Each of the characters come into their own, especially Vincent and Kara, and our "nameless friend" continues to be an infuriatingly fascinating enigma.One thing I'm especially impressed with is that Neuvel, who has an extensive background in linguistics and a "dabbling" in robotics, does a great job of balancing the more technical sciencey elements of the story with straight up robot aliens.
I am absolutely devastated that this is over and we don't even how long we have to wait for the third book yet.Gripping. Intense. Also heartbreaking because some of my favorite characters were killed off, but I don't care, GIVE ME MORE. Another mind boggling ending that I can't wait to get the explanation for!Honestly this is a new favorite series of mine because of the audiobook listening experience. The story is told through audio files so the audiobook format is perfect.
Fucking hell. This series is PHENOMENAL.
—And therein lies the fundamental difference between us. You would not sacrifice your principles for a greater good. I would not stop to think about it. I am... . . . pragmatic, and you, Dr. Franklin, are an idealist. —Is that such a bad thing? —Not at all. What would people like me do without ideals to defend?  Actual Rating: 2 1/2 stars . I'm not sure if I'm being harsh or merciful with this rating; I suppose I'll let you all judge after my review. Science fiction is always so convoluted. Hav
No matter what book you're reading, there's so much deus ex machina.
But to be honest, the longer I read it, the more annoyed I got.This series relies far too much on its gimmicks.
Since I've talked so much about my dislike for the gimmicky style, I do want to give over a brief section for what I did like about this book.
Second, I do really like the sarcastic narrative style of our omniscient narrator.
But I don't think he gets to the heart of it like I want him to.
He tries to keep this story human, but the characters don't read human enough.
Well, that escalated quickly!
This is undoubtedly one of my favorite reads this year.
It would take a handful of descriptions or flashbacks or other literary devices in order to build character but this series showed it through its epistolary format, through its dialogues.It is basically what you read is what you get and what I got was a profound set of characters.
More points to you!)I could have easily read this in just a few hours if I did not have classes to attend to.
If there is anything bad that I would say is that I hated how it quickly ended with a cliffhanger.
Now I have to wait for another year for the next book.
Waking Gods is the second amazing book in Themis Files series.
(hide spoiler)]=> This book has more science than the last one.
But I got the concept of what the author was trying to tell.=> I liked the mystery guy a lot.
When I read him in the last book, I felt that author couldn't be able to do justice with his personality.
(view spoiler)[ Even though I felt sad about what happened to him, I think it couldn't be better.
(hide spoiler)]=> I am very impressed by the way how this series handled Alyssa's character.
4.25⭐So much happened I don’t even know where to begin. I still can’t fathom what just happened. But suffice it to say, WHAT DID YOU DO, NEUVEL!?!? WHAT. DID. YOU. DO!? WHY THAT??This book gave me a headache. An actual headache.
4.25⭐️So much happened I don’t even know where to begin. I still can’t fathom what just happened. But suffice it to say, WHAT DID YOU DO, NEUVEL!?!? WHAT. DID. YOU. DO!? WHY THAT??This book gave me a headache. An actual headache.
3.5 to 4 starsInteresting - that is how I have felt about this series so far.
After 2 books I am still not quite sure if I am used to it.
It is kind of a dossier format similar to the Illuminae Files, but Illuminae Files handles it a bit more comfortably for me.The story is very unique and fascinating.
The fact that I have been bringing up points from this story is a sign that it has me thinking.
For that, it is quite worth giving it a shot.It is worth trying the first book in the series to see if it is for you.
*3.5 stars*I don't know why, but this series has been kinda underwhelming for me and i'm v sad about it. I'm also salty that my fave character died
Re-Read in anticipation of Only Human. I enjoyed this book even more the second time around! My first reading was via a digital ARC and I felt like I was missing out not having a physical copy. I am partial to physical books especially when they are epistolary in nature. This time I read a physical copy and soon found myself lost once again in The Themis Files.  Original Review:This one not only makes it to my "favorites" shelf but it also will be immediately placed on my "desert island" shelf.T
This time I read a physical copy and soon found myself lost once again in The Themis Files.
Original Review:This one not only makes it to my "favorites" shelf but it also will be immediately placed on my "desert island" shelf.This is not a spoiler because on the very first page of this amazing second book in the Themis Files we have a new giant, it is a male, and it is in the middle of London.
By staying logical, it helps readers maintain a connection, and helps create a good sequel.4.
[3.5 Stars] I actually thought the first one was a tad better.
I think the info-dumping got to me a little more, and I wasn’t as enthralled.
It’s still a really fun story that’s quick to get through, but I found myself not caring as much.
I listened to this as an audiobook which was interesting.
I liked some of the narrators, but not all of them.
I would get annoyed anytime the characters that I didn’t like voice-wise would pop up.
I think reading the first book with my own eyes worked out better which I know is an unpopular opinion.
“Luck is believing you’re lucky.” ― Sylvain Neuvel, Waking GodsWOW this was a great sequel that ends on an epic cliffhanger.  CAN'T WAIT FOR THE NEXT BOOK !!
i had the amazing chance to read an ARC of this book thanks to the folks at Netgalley.
ALl i have to say and that i can say is that if you loved the first book in this series you will love this one.
You will see old and new characters and we get more of what we liked on the first book.
All i can say is that the wait for this book is so worth it and i applaud the author for masterminding a world such as the one on the series.This book is a breath of fresh air in the sometimes stagnant field of Sci-fi.
Waking Gods (Themis Files #2) by Sylvain Neuvel is the second book in the series and I didn't think it possible for the author to make a better book than book one but he did!
I loved the first book and this doesn't let the fans down.
There is so much action, twists, surprises, and suspense I had to stay up at night to finish the book.
I couldn't sleep not knowing what was happening!
Thanks you NetGalley and Sylvain Neuvel for letting me read this awesome book!
This is a 10 Star book!
i am floored. i am dead. this book killed me. i also feel v dumb for not figuring out the plot twist (even though it was pretty damn clever), anyways i'm going to go scream into a black hole until i figure out how to write something semi-articulate for this reviewRtcread the damn book, y'all. even better, listen to the audiobook bc W O W
It's so tragic!) or that he wasn't even real because he only appeared to each of the characters when they were alone and it was some alien magic that he was all in their heads but I was wrong and wrong  (hide spoiler)]The interview format makes the book a quick read and the aura of mystery and suspense keeps the pages turning late into the night.
(view spoiler)[ with nameless guy and Kara dead I needed a new character anyway :(  (hide spoiler)]Oh P.P.S. I received a copy of this book from NetGalley...
I'm not a very good binge reader as I can't sit still for 3+ hours at a time; but given the opportunity I think I could binge Waking Gods as it's that fast paced!
Not only does Waking Giant keep you engaged but it also keeps you guessing and ensures you understand that no one is safe.
I think for me part of what makes Waking Gods, and the Themis series to date, so compelling; is that it's based in plausible truth.
Start with book 1 as this is a series that must be read in order.
I listened to Sleeping Giants last year and absolutely fell in love with not only the audiobook but also the story.Waking Gods picks back up a few years after the events at the end of Sleeping Giants.
There were a few parts that I found myself reading the actual book for, but overall the audio is my favorite part.The story itself is exciting as a reader, I was eager to find out what happens to the characters and what do the giant robots want from the Earth.
Loved it! The story did not go in the direction I thought it would and lots of things happened that I was surprised by. Bravo Sylvain! I can't wait to read the next one.
I actually cried when my favorite character died while listening to the audiobook.
(view spoiler)[ When Kara died I lost it.
I cried again when Vincent explained to his daughter how much Kara loved her.
(view spoiler)[Like when we discover Kara and Vincent had a daughter ten years ago that they didn't know existed because of Alyssa.
(hide spoiler)] I feel like I need to get my hands on the third book in this series immediately, I just requested the audiobook from the library.I am loving loving loving this series.
That was EPIC. A great plot twist, more kickass action than the first book, (sadly) somewhat less fucked up and of course another cliffhanger BUT I DON'T EVEN MIND, BECAUSE IT'S SOMETHING I WAS HOPING FOR AND NOW I'M EXCITED.
