https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23158207-how-google-works
Good, because if there's one message the authors of "How Google Works" actually adhere to, it's that "repetition doesn't spoil the prayer" (even when it does).For all the talk of pithy, to-the-point meetings, messages, and culture, this book sure is long.
But the title of this book is "How Google Works," not "Google: We're awesome and here's why." So between the pom-pom waving and pats on the back, I was left trying to connect what substance I could to how I (as a user, Google) perceive the company.
People who work with Technology on a day-to-day basis tend to look up to the Software giants with a stance of awe.
I always get the sense they think there’s their way of doing things (insert here a Technology Company of your choosing) and then there’s the way of the rest of us… I quite agree with their take on the fact that one has to be super ambitious to get anywhere.
And even one fails, one will probably learn something important along the way.You can read the rest of my review elsewhere.
"Basing products on technical insights has always been a core principle of Google, but its importance became even more clear to us in 2009, when we reviewed our product line and started to see a pattern emerging: The best products had achieved their success based on technical factors, not business ones, whereas the less stellar ones lacked technical distinction."This is another quote that I think is a key to success and scaling a company:"The simple way to keep recruiting in everyone’s job description is to measure it.
* The way to improve a product is to challenge your smart people.
How Google Works is an examination of one of Silicon Valley’s tech giants: the company culture, processes and philosophies. I’m a long time user and fan of Google and was curious to check this book out. It was alluring but not groundbreaking. I particularly enjoyed the chapter on Talent. There were some interesting points and I enjoyed reading the complex questions interviewers should consider asking instead of the all too common, standard scripted ones we’ve all been subjected to at one point or another. A decent read if you have an interest in tech companies and business cultures.
Eric and Jonathan touch some of the basic management aspects with reference to running any large corporation in a seamless way which include the company’s way of handling recruitment, performance management, rewards and recognitions and building a vibrant work culture.
In the process of hiring and working with such a creative set of people, Google has also given the World a fair share of technology leaders the likes of Kevin Systrom, Marissa Meyer, Sheryl Sandberg , Andy Rubin and Nikesh Arora to name a few.
Eric and Jonathan highlight the case of Google shutting down operations in China as an example of how a high-impact decision can be communicated well and to high acceptance to the workforce of the company.
Google has developed & released several products in the last few years (and not released many more).
Co-Author Jonathan was the head of Engineering, he realized quickly that traditional product plans will not work, early in his interactions at Google.3.
This book is about the environment for such talented folks to work & interact.4.
Google' products should already be used by most people in the planet - Android in Mobile, Search, GMail etc.
'10 Things we know to be true' and 'Dont be Evil', while these have been publicized, how they are used everyday internally within the Organization.A Must-read book equally for the new age employees and employers!
There is enough here to keep management teams in all departments busy for a long time. There is also a lot of flattering stories about how great Google is. Get past that and there is a lot of gold.
و خب این کتاب هم یک ایراد خیلی خیلی بزرگ داره:و اون اینه که چیزهایی که منتج از موفقیت گوگل هستن رو به عنوان عامل موفقیت جا میزنه.
فرهنگ دست و دل باز و بریز بپاشون گوگل ناشی از انحصاریه که بر بازار سرچ دارند و سود عجیبی که از اونجا بدست میآرن.
در واقع بخش بزرگی از پروداکت هایی که در سراسر کتاب باهاشون فخر فروخته شد سود مستقیمی نزدیک به صفر برای گوگل دارند و حتا به شکل غیر مستقیم هم بود نبودشون چندان اثری بر بیزنس گوگل نداره.
تنها عاملی که اجازه میده این محصولات وج
تنها عاملی که اجازه میده این محصولات وجود داشته باشند، حاشیه سود و امنیت بزرگیه که گوگل داره.نکته‌ی دیگه اینه که اثر شانس هم خیلی دست پایین گرفته شده در کتاب.
بخش بزرگی از انحصاری که گوگل بدست آورده بدلیل زمان ورودش به بازار هست که به جز شانس با هیچ عامل دیگه‌ای توجیه نمیشه.با همه این ها اما در کتاب ایده‌های فوق العاده ای وجود داشت (کردیتی به اشمیت نمیرسه به نظرم چون اکثرا خلاقیت موسسان و تیم ها مهندسی بودن) به عنوان مثال در مورد رپید پروتوتایپینگ شاید به مدت یک هفته تحقیق کردم و کلی ایده‌ی جدید گرفتم.
Книга о Google от генерального директора (CEO) Эрика Шмидта, который долгие годы закладывал вместе с основателями Брином и Пейджем те ценности которые сделали данного интернет гиганта таким крупным, вездесущим и превратили Google в ТОП ИТ-компанию мира.
بسیار عالی بود. خیلی زودتر از اینها باید مطالعه می کردم
I think there are a lot of great takeaways from how Google runs their business.
Some of my favorites had to do with interviewing candidates.
The way they interview candidates stuck out to me because hiring the right people is absolutely key to having a successful business.
Don't settle for a "B" candidate when you should be striving for the "A".
I also liked what they had to say about making decisions.
Finally, spending 80% of your time on 80% of your business.
Exploring other opportunities makes sense too, but don't forget about what got you all this way.
Overall disappointed with the book. Here's a summary... We're Google...We're awesome. You are not worthy of us. It seems the best lesson you can take with this is:1) Start a company with 2 brilliant co-founders who get along well with others2) Be in a ridiculously growing industryThe book it reminded me most of was the fawning The McKinsey WayAnother thing that annoyed me was the use of the third person by the authors (or ghost author). There was no I/us in the book, which is not what I expected since most of the anecdotes involve the authors.
A great story about how the workflow is organized in Google. The main part of the book is devoted to such problems as selecting talented people, building work processes and communication, generating new ideas and creatively solving problems.----------Отличная история о том, как устроен рабочий процесс в компании Google. Основная часть книги посвящается таким проблемам, как подбор талантливых людей, построение рабочих процессов и коммуникации, генерации новых идей и творчески решению задач. I rea
A great story about how the workflow is organized in Google. The main part of the book is devoted to such problems as selecting talented people, building work processes and communication, generating new ideas and creatively solving problems.----------Отличная история о том, как устроен рабочий процесс в компании Google. Основная часть книги посвящается таким проблемам, как подбор талантливых людей, построение рабочих процессов и коммуникации, генерации новых идей и творчески решению задач.
  I read books on Scribd and Google Books by Readlax Chrome Extension
This book is neat and insightful in every aspect that tells how you should keep & manage your employees / products and make them grow creative.
"2 Pizza team" is a great idea ripped from Amazon - Focusing to keep people in very small team and keep them work together discussing the culture and plans.
"Hire a learning machine" - Recruit candidates who is willing to learn more and the great product and ideas comes form learning.
20% of time - collaborate with employees who work in other projects which will bring more innovative ideas.
Bottom-line this books tells you how an innovative company works.
This book shows how google takes its employee's satisfaction to top the chart by its unbeatable work procedure.
Google's concept of work has to a lot to its productivity.
When there is something, Google believes in talking to the developer directly rather than making it complicated.
The ASL concepts is one of the best method google focuses in keeping the employee engaged.
Also, if you are good at work, you dont need a managers influence says another concept called HiPPO - Highly paid person's opinion.
On the whole, How google works shows how companies should work.
This book was a very good read on management techniques used at Google.
Google seeks to hire what they call "smart creative types".
2. Try to get out of the way of the smart creatives hired.
At Google, all the information about a candidate MUST be in the written packet/forms for that employee.
The folks that interviewed the candidate fill out the forms, but the decision-making of whether that candidate is hired is done by another committee separate from those who interviewed the candidate.
Give people flexibility, Google gives them 20% time for all employees to work on their own projects.
And another important take away is Hippo's aren't always right, and as an employee you should be able to rise your voice on your suggestion.
And in Google Hippo's believe in the fact that their employees are right, so as we do here!
And the fact, Google Culture Institute was developed in 20% time.
This is one idea, that everyone has to follow, instead of working on many functionalities and holding it on our hand, let us ship to the users and see how it goes and iterate to add the functionalities.
I've been a pretty big fan of Eric Schmidt for a while and have watched a lot of his talks - so in spite of this being familiar, this was still an excellent read.I particularly enjoyed/learned from the parts where he talked about rating performance, organizing around goals and how those goals are data/number based.
office, work-life balance), I found some pretty good gems to think about as far as how our organization functions.
I started reading this book with no interest but now I am in awe cos the kind of culture that Google exhibits is wonderful.
Hire the best people.
Give them extraordinary pay if they possess extraordinary talent.
Never put a B in yo hiring people and soon you will have only Bs Cs and Ds. While making big decisions, have everyone involved who matters and have a big shot of the company to judge the outcome.
That's the kind of attitude everyone should possess and that's why Google is what it is now.
Give freedom to the best people and they will deliver the best.
It was a good and amusing read with some geeky humor interspersed along with raw wisdom.But like many other books (mostly motivational and self help ones) reader should beware of the survivorship bias! This is how Google works, described as clearly and directly as possible, but this is not necessarily how Google turned into a billion(?) dollar company. Many other dead companies have had few or most of such traits but didn't succeed!So, my advise: apply with care! :)
An essential read for everyone who uses Google ;) No really. I think there's something quite special in a book where ex-CEO of the company has written it. In general, a big part of this book is an overlook to how Google did business and what kind of people and products did they have. Still, there are many interesting little facts that I found appealing.
I thought this book had some good points and tips in it, but I got lost in a lot of the business stories that I couldn't really connect with.
Adding this to my new-to-tech required reading list.Plenty of actionable insights for running effective meetings, getting to decisions, product excellence, managing smart creatives, and resource allocation.
This book is a must read for anybody who wants to better understand how to manage a business in the age of information or anybody who is just curious about the culture within Google that led them to become one of the most innovative companies of modern times.
While the book's rosy portrait of Google sometimes borders on the farcical, there is a wealth of quality information within these pages and it is delivered in a surprisingly humorous and engaging style that kept my attention.
Do yourself a favor and don't hesitate to read this book if you have even the smallest inkling of desire to do so, you won't regret it.
Being able to see how the world best company works was extremely intersting and beneficial.
I thought it would only be about Google itself, but the book is practical and gives direct solutions.
The products stories they mentioned made the book inspiring and enjoyable.
I would rarely read books that none of my friends read and reviewed, but it was listed as one of 2014 best books.
If you are starting a company, this book should be the first in your list.
If you would like to join Google, this book would make you want that even more.
Uno más de los muchos testimonios de "Cómo logramos ser tremendamente exitosos, pero está difícil que nos copies" que se publican año tras año. En este caso, la lectura resulta interesante por quién se trata, pues confirma mucho de lo que aparece en la red, como las fotos de sus oficinas y sus costumbres corporativas excéntricas. Entretenido sí que lo es; práctico... no estoy seguro.
Great view on the culture and practices of an inspiring company.
Unfortunately there were a lot of bad jokes in this book about google.
I always wondered how Google, growing so rapidly, could maintained its innovation and got some answers here. It's about culture, and freedom, and hiring the right people, and morals, and listening, and making tough decisions. Eye opening and inspiring.
Pokud chcete zakládat start-up, pak asi povinná četba. Našel jsem tam všechno to, co mi v From 0 to 1 chybělo. Bývalým zaměstnancům Google bych přidal ještě půl hvězdičky navíc. Středoevropanům musí nutně místy připadat moc nadšená a patetická. Doporučuji proto prokládat něčím lehčím, například Belindou Blinked 4.
