https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/428078.Treblinka
Treblinka purports to be a non fiction book but actually reads like a novel.
I've since read that his book has been dismissed as fiction by at least one survivor of the events he describes.
For me the uprising was such a heroic act of defiance largely because the Jews were very poorly armed and yet still managed to hold the Germans back for a month.
So, Treblinka is a riveting read and without question provides innumerable insights into how both the Jews working there and their guards behaved.
If not the work of an historian what is it?
I read this history of the successful revolt in 1943 by members Treblinka's sonderkommando (i.e. a work unit comprised of Jews) shortly after it was published in 1966.
Based on interviews with 40 of the survivors amongst the Treblinka rebels, this book gives a remarkable portrait of the daily work schedule and life inside a Nazi death camp that killed up to 5,000 in a single day.
I had not been aware of the existence of Sonderkommandos prior to reading the book nor was I aware that there had been revolts in the camps.
For Treblinka is an incredibly powerful, harrowing book; whether it is true, or only based on the truth, it tells an overwhelming story.
There is the "Factory," which is actually the gas chambers; the "hospital," which is actually a pit where Jews are executed; there are "convoys," which are actually trainloads of men, women, and children, who are put through an efficient process that takes them from life to a shallow grave in a short period of time.
These two are eventually replaced with Kurt Franz, known as Lalka: "The Doll." He is a man who has found his calling as a death-camp commandant.
You are able to see the hardships and dehumanizing things that happened in the Treblika concentration camp as well as seeing the day to day workings of the camp.
Though this book reaches into the core of you and shakes you, Treblika is a book that is not hopeless.
It is a book that tells the story of 600 Jews who revolted against their captors/tormentors, burned the very camp that held them in hell and escaped.
I think that this is a very important story of what the triumphs the human will can accomplish.
The book relates the history of a concentration camp, Treblinka (Poland), where around 800.000 Jews died between July 1942 and October 1943.
It describes the daily life (and horror) of the concentration camp and the way the camp was very cynically, efficiently (however inappropriate this word may sound in this context) managed by the Nazis, who terrorised the prisoners in such a way that some selected Jews forcibly joined so-called sonderkommandos and helped the Nazis gaze and exterminate hundreds of thousands, thereby enabling the Germans to control all the process with just a handful of Nazi soldiers.
Second, no one according to me should ever judge whatever may have happened in the extreme, horrific circumstances of an extermination camp like Treblinka.
I've read other Holocaust stories that mention the Treblinka revolt but none have come anywhere near the detail this has.
that would come with actually being there but I don't know that I agree with Steiner on some things.
I'm not talking about things such as the building of the armory and the like, but the thinking that supposedly went into the breaking of the Jews.
Steiner goes very, very deep into some very "small" points and I think this is a great thing in certain respects.
I don't think the Germans, as organized and power hungry as they were, thought about it all in the manner Steiner implies.
This is a slim little paperback, less than 300 pages.
Normally I could finish something like that in a matter of days, but this took me three weeks.
My world has been rocked by this book, my foundation shaken.
I've read literally dozens of books on World War II, with special emphasis (I thought) on the Holocaust, but I have never come across this tory.
I had to re-read some sections more than once when they became hard to understand, which I think was due to translation issues more than anything else.
Se você tem alguma vaga ideia, mas é curioso sobre o assunto este é o seu livro.
Se você quer vislumbrar em algumas páginas até onde vai a loucura e maldade humanas este também é o seu livro.
Não, na verdade estou incrédula com o que eu descobri; nunca poderei digerir e/ou aceitar o que foi atentado contra os judeus.
"Timbrou em agradecer aos alemães pela maneira como tratavam os judeus : " É verdade que alguns se queixam um pouco", disse, "mas estes esquecem-se de que cada povo deve pensar inicialmente em si.
however, it does tell a story that should be heard.
the thing that struck me most about the book, however, which was written in the early 60s, was how many times he set out to basically answer the question of why the jews went like lambs to the slaughter.
it makes me want to read more on the conception of the agency of the jews in the holocaust immediately post-war versus now.
but it's excellent for what it is, which is a story of hope in the face of despair.
Ce n'est certainement pas le livre le plus joyeux que j'ai lu cet été. Livre au sujet difficile qui raconte comment les prisonniers d'un camp d'extermination ont pu se révolter contre leurs bourreaux. A lire pour le devoir de mémoire.
Well, as in "Now what"?This reads like a novel.
It is full of "supposed conversations" that threatened the credibility of the entire story, but somehow you never lose sight of the fact that it was the reality for hundreds of thousands of Jews.Written in an "of the time" manner, it uses phrases like "took her as mistress", or "they were kept for their entertainment", but the horror, degradation and shame behind those sterile words is palpable.
What I think this telling did well was to use an unapologetic approach to taking you through the thought process of those who committed the unthinkable and those who endured the unbearable.
This is the most disturbing book I have ever read.
I have read through Game of Thrones and the Sword of Truth series with eager anticipation.
This book I couldn't read more than 5 pages without having to put it down.
The Germans in charge made them organize the bodies according to how well they burned...I am shocked to my core reading about the sick mind games, rituals, and disgraces these monsters made these people go through.
There are no words for books like these.
I remember when i first picked it out thinking it would just be a restatement of the facts of Treblinka.
No. This book was more than just a memoir.
IT was a reflection on how the concentration camp was more than just the continuous destruction of life, it was a cataclysm in the never-ending cycle of jewish belief.
That their people group never gave up on life even faced with assured destruction and constant debasment and humiliation is so bewildering.
Treblinka is fascinating.
One of the most damaging books I read in my early teenage years. What little I had from my childhood inocence was taken away as I read through the pages, silentely, at night. And I think I understood a little of the need to tell the story. It is hard to lose your inocence. To realize that humans are able to plan, carefully, the extinction of other humans. But you do have to know, and become an adult. Everyone has to know. We cannot afford to be ignorant. Because ignorance is the food of dictators.
While the subject matter was extremely difficult to get through I am glad I read this book.
Half the time I wanted cry and never read another word yet the rest of the time I was fascinated by the people who kept going through all of it.
They all had different methods but in the end the goal to stay alive won out.
This book definately left me understand the tragedy of disvaluing human life.
Every person is alive for a reason and it is such a precious gift to have and to realise your potential.
A very different way of writing a biographical account of the holocaust, sometimes reading more like a novel than a historical account. Lots of prose which makes it very readable but, as a result, it is much harder to connect to the individuals therein.It is very enjoyable - if that is a word that can be used about such a subject - but it isn't essential reading and not the book I would suggest to someone that wants a vivid account of hell on earth.
Incredible. Fascinating. Unbelievable that out of the nearly 1 million gassed that the remaining 1000 were able to make it as far as they did in the revolt. Even though I knew there were survivors, I was still on the edge of my seat hoping that more would make it out alive. She said she changed the names, but Blumenthal is also the name of US senator? Hmm..
Had to read this for class as a sort of follow-up to Night by Elie Wiesel. Thought was gripping and heart wrenching at the same time. One of the many stories of both death and survival from the Holocaust that are hard to believe. Not overly romanticized like some Holocaust literature either.
One of the most memorable things I've ever read. I was 22 years old and learning about life. Very depressing. Did not realize human beings were capable of creating the awful conditions and mistreatment.
It's amazing what can be done by a few who are willing to fight back, even when broken. Even more so when those who have broken them think they are weak.
If you want to know the untold story of the first death camp this is the book.
This book gave an excellent perspective on the Jewish reaction to the Holocaust. It is also more philosophical than many books about the camp system that I have read. It is very good. I had to stop periodically to digest what I had just read.
This was my second read of this novel.
Some broad line reviews that were initially attached to this work criticized Steiner for taking too much liberty with the story and blending events and characters for dramatic purpose.Irregardless, Treblinka is an engaging read.
The factual research behind the creation of the ghettos and the methods used in determining early selections is detailed, and of course the existence and use of the abandoned fuel depot at Ponary (Ponar) for einsatzgruppen/ militia executions is similarly well documented.The actual story of the creation of Treblinka and the chaos that called for the removal of the first commandant is unmentioned.
Since I finished Treblinka, I still haven't been able to make up my mind about it: who to like, who to hate, who to pity, who to feel inspired by, so much grey in the realm of pure survival.My favorite parts are when Steiner talks about the logic of the Technicians and the emotions of inmates.
I was disappointed at more than one point - especially since there's almost 400 pages of build-up and conspiring and only a dozen or so of the actual outbreak, and practically nothing about them once they get out.
I have copies of a pamphlet about the outbreak, please contact me if you would like one.
This book is a powerful piece of "creative nonfiction" in the best sense of the term.
Steiner interviewed the 40 people who survived the killing machine of Treblinka to reconstruct the story of the camp and the prisoner revolt that all but destroyed the it.
The book is very well-written and is easily as gripping as any novel.
Treblinka, which existed as an extermination camp, was responsible for the deaths of 800,000 (or more) people.
That these prisoners survived the conditions there, and were able to foment a revolt that led to the escape of 600 prisoners (of whom 40 survived to the end of the war) is an amazing tribute to the human spirit.
Treblinka, Jean-Francois Steiner:A story about a horrendous episode in human history, the Holocaust told in a rather banal way. Like any book that brings light to the Holocaust, it is a should read for anyone interested in understanding the human capacity for brutality and suffering. Though written in a sometimes awkward manner, author Steiner does convey the message he wants to deliver, and that is that this unbelievable horrible thing did happen and the world needs to know that it happened.
This book recounts the uprising and revolt of the Jews in the Treblinka extermination camp in Poland. The author took some liberties with testimonials as nearly all of the people involved in the revolt perished. He had met with the 40 or so survivors at the time of the writing of the book (1966) and formed the book from these interviews. "Treblinka" is an intriguing look into the slow, systematic degradation that the Jews suffered at the hands of the "Technicians" (SS), beginning in the ghettos and ending in the gas chambers.
Horrifying and inspiring. The Nazis murdered hundreds of thousands of Jews at the Treblinka extermination camp. The Nazis kept about 1,000 Jewish inmates alive to run the camp. This is the story of how they formed an underground organization, planned a revolt, killed their guards, and burned the camp to the ground. The book is in novel form, but it was pieced together from interviews with the survivors of the revolt. Don't read the foreword by Simone de Beauvoir until you've finished the book--she gives away THE most moving scene in the whole book.
Not a cheery read, obviously, but very dramatic and suspenseful. It read a lot like fiction (as much of the dialogue was necessarily supposed--a little "creative non-fiction"), which helped propel me along, but even so, it wasn't a book to read quickly because the subject matter was just so awful. I also found the translation (from French) to be a little weird at times, but overall, I'm glad I picked this up from my bookshelf--yet another inherited book I would never have thought to seek out.
This was a very difficult one to finish, not because of the writing but because of the emotions that came of it; because in my need to know of this evil time in history nothing prepared me or helps me to understand why it did - or how any human could carry it out. Hard to put down. Hard to ignore. Bravo to the author for sharing evidence. And, bravo to the Jews who risked their lives so as to be witness for the world...
