https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141352.A_Hunger_Artist
When . . . some leisurely passer-by stopped . . . and spoke of cheating, that was in its way the stupidest lie ever invented by indifference and inborn malice, since it was not the hunger artist who was cheating, he was working honestly, but the world was cheating him of his reward. The main character is a professional, fasting artist. His manager takes him from town to town across Europe, locks him in a straw filled cage for forty days, and advertises his feat of hunger, drawing large crowds. H
and spoke of cheating, that was in its way the stupidest lie ever invented by indifference and inborn malice, since it was not the hunger artist who was cheating, he was working honestly, but the world was cheating him of his reward.
He wants to show the world that he can deprive himself, and he wishes he could go longer than forty days, but part of the spectacle is the ending of the fast when people watch him removed from the cage and put before his first meal.
What he did for fame.
What he did to prove himself.
How some people take things to extremes and then find the thing itself has taken them over.
How pointless it is to die for something so petty.
How perhaps the clarity of imminent mortality makes the protagonist confess the true reason for his self-starvation.
Or perhaps it was about if a tree falls in the forest but no one is there to see it...
A novella, or a long short story it is of infinite depth and endless interpretation.
But then that's the genius of Kafka all over.Updated 10 May 2015
These four stories capture how easily art can drive the artist to death.
They sound like a Kafka creation, but in a way the story seemed so real I had my doubts.
- A Hunger Artist, locked in his cage.The audience would mark the days for the artist and watch him to ensure that he didn’t sneakily eat any food and that he was genuine throughout.
In a way, I think Kafka has used the story as an allegory for writing (and perhaps other forms of art.) There are so many creative types out their who push themselves so far to make something extraordinary.
It would appear Kafka saved some of his best writing for the time just prior to his death in 1924, and "The Hunger Artist" has a feel of bitter irony and maturity but still retains the same ground as previous works, that being alienation and withdrawal.
The exhibit point being a man in a cage fasting for 40 days, and from the first few sentences Kafka induces a consciousness of time by tempting the reader to inquire only of the situation of the hunger artist himself rather than worry about place and time.
I am too overwhelmed to write , for i AM the hunger artist !It's like watching yourself , your life , your decisions ,and above all your DEATH !This is how i visioned my death ! I just didn't have any idea that another person knew how exactly it's going to be !Kafka creeps the hell outta me . Seriously !
‘A Hunger Artist’ is about an artist who starves himself as an art. Back in the days, the hunger artist used to be displayed in a cage and a lot of people paid money to admire his art. But, the times have changed and people just don’t care about him anymore. The story is highly metaphorical and different interpretations can be drawn from it. And when once in a while a person strolling past stood there making fun of the old number and talking of a swindle, that was in a sense the stupidest lie wh
Back in the days, the hunger artist used to be displayed in a cage and a lot of people paid money to admire his art.
People who lead different lives due to what they do or who they are might feel isolated from the society and feel like they’re trapped in a cage to be gawked at by everyone but understood and accepted by no one.
The story of the artist could also represent the people who are forced to make different choices in their life due to the circumstances and they end up doing something they never wanted to do in the first place.
Travel is torturous because he has to come down (though for longer journeys, he goes by train and lies in the overhead luggage rack!).Voyeurism often features tangentially in Kafka's works (and sometimes explicitly), but that is not the trapeze artist's motivation.
Fasting as a spectacle goes out of fashion; he is no longer the big draw he once was, and he ends up in a circus, alongside the more interesting animal.You can read the full text here (8 pages):http://www.kafka-online.info/a-hunger...Josefine the Songstress or The Mouse PeopleOne of Kafka's animal stories, though apart from the subtitle, you'd barely know it.
Jesus died trying to tell the people about righteous path.
However, just like hunger artist he was never understood and soon ran out of fashion.
Hunger artist was personification of abstinence and was replaced by ever hungry beast showing a change in values of society.
Hunger artist's last words may mean to show he has been so because he couldn't living with existing vices of society.Like all Kafka's works, it is absurd and is liable to multiple interpretations, but we need not worry ourselves with what author was thinking when he wrote it.
The title of the story has been translated also to "A Fasting Artist" and "A Starvation Artist".تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دهم ماه آوریل سال 1974 میلادینوان: مسخ و گراکوس شکارچی؛ نوشته: فرانتس کافکا؛ مترجم: صادق هدایت؛ کتاب در قطع جیبی و شامل داستانهای: مسخ؛ گراکوس شکارچی؛ شمشیر؛ در کنیسه مانخستین بار ترجمه فارسی این اثر از متن فرانسه به قلم روانشاد صادق هدایت منتشر شد.
ترجمه دیگری نیز از جناب علی اصغر حداد را که از متن اصلی و زبان آلمانی ترجمه شده نشر ماهی منتشر کرده استعنوان: هنرمند گرسنگی؛ نویسنده: فرانتس کافکا؛ مترجم: کامل روزدار؛ تهران، چاپخش، 1391؛ در 76 ص؛ عنوان دیگر: گراکوس شکارچی نشر 1390؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آلمانی - سده 20 مدر داستان هنرمند گرسنگی (گراکوس شکارچی) قهرمان داستان کسی ست که دائم در حال روزه داری ست.
This spoke deepest to me:"I always wanted you to admire my fasting,' said the hunger artist.
'But you shouldn't admire it,' said the hunger artist.
'So then we don't admire it,' said the overseer,'but why should we not admire it?' 'Because I must fast, I cannot do otherwise,' answered the hunger artist.
I think Kafka was the hunger artist.
Perhaps his hope was that some day people might hear, and see him after death as in life, feeding off the food of what truly matters.-----------------Original, 3.2.16The life of a nutrition deprived man in a cage, a prisoner by will.
Forty days at a time were not so much a personal challenge — it was simply the number of days of a fasting cycle until the public got bored with paying attention.One of the things I thought about — besides...the sadness of this man’s life —perhaps wanting control - but control is limiting- an illusion- and ultimately disappointing—I thought about the deep sadness of the GREAT ARTISTS...The GREAT HONEST WORKERS in our world — doing what they do that comes natural and easy to ‘them’...
Many of the greatest people feel invisible- lonely - like they’ve failed at their own dreams....And they are sorry.The Hunger Artist tried to do honest work....and make a difference.
When I was born, I started to learn the tricks of the world.I did everything I was asked to do.
I did years of schooling.I was asked to take a paying degree of engineering, I did it.I was told that management is "THE" thing for the future and that's where the big bucks are.
But somewhere down the line I lost track of myself.
Yes, sure.
But what will the future hold for me then?
If yes then HOW?Will the world end?
This sad tale by Kafka narrates the dilemma of a man whose only trait has become irrelevant to the world.
هنرمند داستان که یاد گرفته با خودش سر کند، زندگی را در پیش گرفته که از نظر خیلی ها بی ارزش و شاید حتی خجالت آور است.
چیزی که به او رضایت خاطر می دهد هنر یا مخاطبانش نیست، بلکه این توانایی است که می تواند از هستی خودش لذت ببرد و کاری به سبک زندگی مورد پسند جامعه نداشته باشد.
اگرچه هنرمند اهمیتی برای میزان درک مخاطبان از کارهایش قائل نیست، ولی باز هم توقع دارد کارش مورد ستایش قرار بگیرد.
هنرمند به این آگاهی رسیده که برای بقا به چیزی بیش تر از غذای معمول نیاز دارد، او متوجه شده که تفکرش هم به غذا نیاز دارد.
You always end up doing shit you never wanted to do.
"Un hombre condenado a mirar al mundo con una claridad tan enceguecedora que éste le resultó insoportable y se encaminó hacia la muerte" Esta es la descripción que hace Kafka del ayunador, un hombre que conforme se describe su mundo y su necesidad de sentir hambre transmite un velo de angustia y desolación que sólo él, y sus semejantes, podían entender. El arquetipo del hombre solo cuando está rodeado de gente, siempre inconforme con el mundo y completamente incomprendido pero, que al mismo tie
"Un hombre condenado a mirar al mundo con una claridad tan enceguecedora que éste le resultó insoportable y se encaminó hacia la muerte"
Esta es la descripción que hace Kafka del ayunador, un hombre que conforme se describe su mundo y su necesidad de sentir hambre transmite un velo de angustia y desolación que sólo él, y sus semejantes, podían entender.
When the external critics lost interest and the artist lost his external measure of success, he is left with his internal critic, himself, who unfortunately knew very well how mediocre his performance actually is. Is the pathetic condition of the hunger artist also a reflection of Kafka's own condition?
A este impulso de dejar de comer, se le reconoce hoy en día como anorexia, una enfermedad psiquiátrica"Un artista del hambre" relato escrito por Franz Kafka en 1922 trata sobre ese impulso destructivo ya despojado de su dignidad mística o justiciera, pero revestido de una cualidad circense.
Sin embargo (como "el artista del hambre") sería imposible corroborar la veracidad de sus clamores, pues para ello sería necesario mantenerlos permanentemente vigilados y sólo así comprobar si cumplen con la privación de la que tanto se jactan.Otra interpretación podría ser la pobreza.
I always try to view a piece of art as abstract and intricate as the soul of its creator.
I might not be an artist, but I am a hunger person whose mind is abstained from anything fake.
A hunger artist is a very layered work which makes it hard –even impossible- to read without omitting a sign or a meaning.
It is hard to draw any conclusions about this but to me Kafka would always remain this mysterious genius and, A hunger artist utterly testifies to his greatness.
"Try to explain the art of fasting to anyone!
This is a tiny story and I'd recommend that everyone read it. Think about your hunger. Do you starve yourself for lack of nutrition or do you poison yourself with what you are given? Do you choke your children with your own inadequacy and suffocate those try to live consciously? In the moments when one is faced with something intense, it is easy to get overwhelmed. But take twenty minutes, read this story and answer your questions.
A Hunger Artist is a Franz Kafka short story that was published in the early 1920's.
A Fasting Artist would be a better title because that's what the protagonist is, that's what he does, and he does it publicly, seemingly for the entertainment of the "people".
But as time goes on the people begin to lose interest in his fasting's until there is no one left, no one who is interested.
The story is obviously an allegory but what does it mean, what does the fasting represent?
They could mean anything to anybody.
It's a short read and certainly worth taking the time.
Sometime recently, though, I did read something about Kafka.
I thought it was The New Yorker, but according to Google they haven't published any Kafka articles since January, and it wasn't that long ago.
I haven't yet figured out where I was reading that.Nowadays the fasts of this nature one hears of are for political reasons, for example, the recently-ended fast by a leader of the Hong Kong pro-democracy movement.
But the fasting in The Hunger Artist is not like that.I next thought of the unclearly attributed quotation about writing being easy; all you do is open a vein and bleed.
As good as The Metamorphosis, if not more.
This short story was the last work of Kafka symbolically expresses the death.In “A Hunger Artist,” the hunger artist’s troubled relationship with his spectators suggests that the artist exists apart from society and must therefore be misunderstood.
Set apart from others, only the hunger artist realizes the importance of his ambitions and accomplishments, and only he knows that he is not cheating.
The further the hunger artist goes in pursuit of perfection, as he does in the circus, the further away he moves from the understanding of the people for whom he performs.
[There are a few spoilers throughout this review] This is likely my most valued short story of all time.
Yes, he is used as a man who starves himself literally throughout the story, but readers must ask themselves, is it really food that the hunger artist is lacking?
The hunger artist likes the attention.
Symbolism might suggest that the panther is the exact opposite of the hunger artist, willingly eating and self-consumed, not to be concerned with what others think of him.
Before dying, the hunger artist says he should not have had admirers; that he just couldn't find any food he liked.
The book not only shows Kafka's desire for permanence and eternal recognition but is also the perfect allegory of the writer , the artist in general . It shows the modern artist's attitude towards existance and his struggle with going beyond his own limits . The "hunger" is undoubtely the lack of frivolities , which defines the life of the artist."Those who don't feel the hunger cannot understant it "
Gerçek sanatçı için tatmin imkansızdır. Hep daha iyisini üretebileceğini düşünecek. Toplum taktir edip alkışlarsa, diyecek ki "bunu yapmak ne kadar da kolaydı, niye alkışlıyorlar ki?". Takdir edilmese, eserleri göz ardı edilse daha da fena. Anlaşılmak isteyecek ama hiç bir zaman anlamayacaklar. "Açlık sanatçısı" diye bir şey gerçekten varmış bu arada.
It's life. All of us are in the cage, trying to be and do something that makes no sense and that leads only to death. Everyone else is our audience and our tormenters.
La historia es la de un hombre que aparentemente solo disfruta pasando hambre, lo que atrae el interés del público hacia él.
La dependencia del hombre hacia el fervor popular le hace creer que solo vale para ayunar y causar pena, se vuelve dependiente de un factor externo.
Consciente de que sus días ya carecen de sentido, se deja morir de inanición y es sustituido por una pantera que, esta sí, cobra un gran interés para el público.Este cuento expone algunos de los temas más frecuentes de su autor: Las obsesiones, la soledad, la incomprensión, la incomunicación, el aislamiento y lo absurdo, casi surrealismo.
He lived this way, taking small regular breaks, for many years, apparently in the spotlight, honoured by the world, but for all that his mood was usually gloomy, and it kept growing gloomier all the time, because no one understood how to take him seriously.
But how was he to find consolation?
What was there left for him to wish for?
And if a good-natured man who felt sorry for him ever wanted to explain to him that his sadness probably came from his fasting, then it could happen that the hunger artist responded with an outburst of rage and began to shake the bars like an animal, frightening everyone.
He is so passionate about his fasting and understands so little of the outside world that it is difficult for him to understand that his audience's interests change, and that everyone does not want to see him fast for as long as he wants to, and in the end not at all.To me, the protagonist goes in a completely different path than the rest of society does, and he doesn't even see it, even if we can see that he slowly but surely gets frustrated by the way his actions are considered.
Life in a nutshell.
The Hunger Artist here is a symbol alright, but a symbol of what, your guess is probably as good as mine.
In the old days he enjoyed fame, people liked him and respected his profession a lot but now he is no longer a star.Maybe he is a symbol for old-fashioned virtue.
Or for people like monks, priests, nuns or saints for many of the things Kafka said of the Hunger Artist here would fall neatly into the such people who no longer enjoy the respect, admiration, prestige and acceptance they once had before the world became too modern and smart.
Someone knocked door...I opened it and BOOM... It penetrated inside my me.After three paragraphs I took one minute break to breath and again went into the world of breathlessness ...The sheer passion and suffering of it, without any greed, or benefit, just to attain the salvation, of that hunger artist, just not UPLIFTED, it LEVITATED me...There are millions of people like this Hunger Artist in this world, who made negotiations with life and still, just want one thing, to please the desire of virtue.Huge admiration for Kafka.A bow of respect.
They say a well read person doesn't stick to one genre, do they not? I've had problems with reading classics because it reminds me of school too much. This was a beautiful cautionary tale though. I enjoy everything Kafka. He is my favourite playwright after all so I should have read this earlier.
I'm just so glad for this story and for Kafka to achieve his permanence in some of the people in this world. I'm glad that he opened a little space for us people who loves the art of the untouchable, unseeable, and the undiscovered. It is a fine story, a Kafka's best.
ایده داستان خیلی جالب بود به نوعی فریبنده بود .
Just imagine: a man doing a 40-day fast, in a cage, with people coming – and paying – to see him literally starve.
One can give this story all the symbolism it can get, but for me the lingering impression is that Kafka gives quite a good, though morbid, example of how people love to watch.
People come to watch the man in the cage, but what they don’t know is that they are being watched in turn by the artist.
No sabía que el ayunar era un arte, pero este hombre lo hace con pasión para ser admirado por quienes luego no llegan a comprenderlo. Tiene tanto que decir, pero las fuerzas lo abandonan. Excelente relato de algo olvidado.
Free download available at LibriVox.
ولكن المزاج كان رغم كل ذلك كئيبا على الدوام، وراح يزداد  كآبة في جميع الأوقات، لأن أحدا لم يتمكن من أخذه على محمل الجد.
―¿Ayunas todavía?―Le preguntó el inspector.―¿Cuándo vas a cesar de una vez?―Perdonadme todos.―musitó el ayunador, pero sólo le comprendió el inspector, que tenía el oído pegado a la reja.―Sin duda.―dijo el inspector, poniéndose el índice en la sien para indicar con ello al personal el estado mental del ayunador―, todos te perdonamos.―Había deseado toda la vida que admirarais mi resistencia al hambre.―dijo el ayunador.―Y la admiramos.―repuso el inspector.―Pero no debíais admirarla.―dijo el ayuna
―¿Ayunas todavía?―Le preguntó el inspector.―¿Cuándo vas a cesar de una vez?―Perdonadme todos.―musitó el ayunador, pero sólo le comprendió el inspector, que tenía el oído pegado a la reja.―Sin duda.―dijo el inspector, poniéndose el índice en la sien para indicar con ello al personal el estado mental del ayunador―, todos te perdonamos.―Había deseado toda la vida que admirarais mi resistencia al hambre.―dijo el ayunador.―Y la admiramos.―repuso el inspector.―Pero no debíais admirarla.―dijo el ayunador.―Bueno, pues entonces, no la admiraremos.―repuso el inspector―; pero ¿por qué, no debemos admirarte?―Porque me es forzoso ayunar, no puedo evitarlo.―dijo el ayunador.―Eso ya se ve.―dijo el inspector―, pero ¿por qué no puedes evitarlo?―Porque.―dijo el artista del hambre levantando un poco la cabeza y hablando en la misma oreja del inspector para que no se perdieran sus palabras, con labios alargados como si fuera a dar un beso―, porque no pude encontrar comida que me gustara.
Finally, admitting that he was fasting because he couldn’t find any food he really liked, thus suggesting that he really didn’t deserve credit for what appeared to be a deprivation, the Hunger Artist died and was replaced in his cage by a panther that was far more interesting to the audience.Is this a tale about the absurdity of human motivation?
Or about what absurdities the public finds interesting?
Or about public misunderstanding of the artist and his role?
This story makes graphic and literal the concept of “the starving artist,” doesn’t it?
- that is, 'May new sufferings torment your soul but your lips be fashioned as before, for the cry would only frighten us, but the music, that is blissful.'" — Søren KierkegaardMaybe when the people finally heard the cry of the Hunger artist the magic was broken and no one wanted to actually see his art for what it really was, the suffering of a tormented soul.However it would be wrong to assume that only artists suffer in this way.
There are countless people who suffer in isolation wanting to be noticed, to be loved and yet are not.
the hunger artist tries to find spiritual fulfillment through renouncing his body's needs.he fasts a
"Bizim yaşamımız diken üstündedir, gelen her yeni gün peşi sıra yeni şaşkınlıklar, korkular, kaygılar, umutlar taşıyor, gece gündüz baş vurabileceği dostları olmasa bir kişinin bu yaşama karşı ayak kalması mümkün değildir."...Çok etkileyici bir anlatım dili vardı.
Açlık sanatçısının açlığındaki dik duruş ve onur okunmaya değerdi.“Hala açlıkta mısın?
Ne zaman bırakacaksın artık?”“Hepiniz affedin beni?
diye fısıldıyor açlık sanatçısı.“Elbet.
diyor açlık sanatçısı...“Hayranız zaten”“Ama hayran olmamalısınız”“Peki, öyleyse hayran da değiliz.
Niçin hayran olmayacakmışız ki?”“Çünkü aç kalmak zorundayım ben, başka türlü edemem."“Bakın hele” diyor görevli, “niye başka türlü edemezmişsin?”Açlık sanatçısı burada son sözlerini söylüyor ve diyor ki:“Çünkü, çünkü tadını sevdiğim yemeği bulamadım.
