https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129936.Mr_Bridge
Another masterpiece of pointillist fiction, this companion novel to Mrs. Bridge tells the story of the Bridge family from the husband's perspective. Told in snippets and short scenes, like Mrs. Bridge, it excavates the human being behind his conventions, or rather asks how much the person has merged into his own conventionality. The truth isn't always pretty, but the prose certainly is. It's direct, clear, supple, and utterly propulsive. I found myself swept along, even when what was being described was banal or worse. It's quite a feat.
(Connell must like the challenge of repellant characters; the novel he published between the Bridges is called The Diary of a Rapist.) Mr. Bridge is partly based on Connell’s father and made me think tenderly of my own.
Son of the Morning Star shares the accretive, anecdotal style of the Bridge novels; the digressions extend and interlace to form something incredibly vast—no less than “the American character as revealed by the struggle for the Great Plains,” judged one critic.
The page and a half Connell devotes to the Bridges' contrasting reactions to Douglas’s killing of a squirrel with his bb gun is an X-ray of the gender themes and power tensions of this American family.
each time i've found i think so much about them that i spin out to my own context, considering the influences of culture and community and nature and nurture and then i think many outrageous things about the world and find it hard to spin it back down to midwestern america, let alone actually writing a review, let alone two!
bridge's view of the proprieties of a white middle-class american dream) back-to-back they are magical, reflecting and echoing, each enriching the other, the two books making a magnificent literary marriage from one complicated one.
bridge's world and live a part of his life with him again.
I prefer to give Mr. Bridge 4.5 stars, since I didn’t think that it quite measured up to Mrs. Bridge, although it’s still worth reading after Mrs. Bridge.
The vignette style of both books is something that I seldom see and love.
Just like Mrs. Bridge, this book is not plot-driven.
Nothing major happens.
Both books are subtle and heartwarming.
Both will remain with me.
Some may not like Mr. Bridge.
I prefer to not judge him too harshly.
He was a man of his time in the Midwest.
I prefer to look at his positive side.
He loved his family and was traditional.
I read Mrs. Bridge and Mr. Bridge in close succession, and I loved both of them.
I recommend reading them in the order in which they were written: Mrs. Bridge in 1959 and Mr. Bridge in 1969.
Mr. Bridge isn't as likable a character as his wife, but I don't think the greatness of the novel should be discounted simply because its narrator is taciturn and narrow-minded.It was fun reading about what Kansas City was like in the 1930s and '40s.
But the most welcome aspect was getting a glimpse into the mind of each of the Bridges, characters that reminded me of some of my relatives.
In any case, I will say that this is one of the best novels I have read that simply focuses on the American family, in particular, the Midwestern family unit, which is a subtle offshoot of the grand scheme of the nuclear dream America put forward pre and post World Wars, and remains like dark matter in our current social systems.
Mr. Bridge is like, part of my blood, man.
Listen: I laughed and I cried reading this book --the classic sign of brilliant storytelling.
Connell brilliantly describes the daily life of the upper middle class Bridges. I considered abandoning Mr. Bridge several times. Walter Bridge lives a regimented and unexamined life. He is a bigot. He is boring except for an occasional flash of wit and a few acts of unexpected kindness. I didn't like him at all. But I did finish, because Connell's pitch-perfect prose made me turn the pages.
To experience a unique style of novel writing, you really need to pick up Evan S.
Mr. Bridge is an upper middle class lawyer who is rigidly conservative, intelligent, ambitious and hard working, For the most part, he is calm and controlled in his family relationships, even when his children throw him some curveballs.
Also read a piece from writer Anne Lamott who writes “When I read Mrs. Bridge by Evan S.
He and my father were very close friends my whole childhood, and I could not believe that such a quiet man, who sat with us for meals and passed the dinner rolls, could write such an exquisite, funny, and painful book about an upper class wife and mother in Kansas City.
This book can easily be read/enjoyed ("enjoyed": aesthetically appreciated) as the answer to What if Patrick Bateman became a 1950s* family man?
Take careful note of - the dog-killing episode (Chapter 64/ground glass)- the creepy Ruth-centric episodes (Chapters 59/in the garden, 66/high school album, 68/Coppelia, 70/So soon?, 71/Juliet)- his racially progressive attitude towards blacks that masks a seething racial contempt (numerous chapters, but especially Chapter 8/Lester, 9/trouble in the road ahead, 65/liberal arts)- his obsession with pop music (several spots, but especially Chapter 67/strange music)- all of those unaccountable "late hours at the office"And please take for example Chapter 24/EK wherein a homeless man in a shabby trenchcoat (or hallucination?) steps out of the shadows and attempts an armed robbery.
If he had no money he should get a job like everybody else." (pgs.
130-132 from American Psycho:"Get a goddamn job, Al. You've got a negative attitude.
Yes, there is an overarching narrative — that of one man’s life moving forward from the beginning of his marriage through to his children becoming adults and forging lives of their own — but it’s told in an episodic style in brief, self-contained chapters, each one almost a short story in their own right.There’s no real plot, apart from Mr Bridge and his family growing older, and the setting is purely domestic: think suburban America in the 1930s and 40s.
The story is quiet, made up of the small instances in a man’s suburban life between the two world wars.
(As in Mrs. Bridge, Douglas frequently made me chuckle.) India and Walter want to live a full life, the desire is there, but they don’t know how.
It’s easy to think that India and Walter’s despondency is simply a product of their time but I think what marks these two books as “classics” is that no matter when you read the stories – today or fifty years from now – they will make you wonder whether you too might be in a holding pattern.
Astounding.
Both Bridge novels are perfectly executed and it's a breathtaking thing for a reader like myself.
The plain, straight, undecorated prose serves to make the author completely invisible.
I was there in the world of these two characters, there was nothing in the way.
Somehow it gave me an access, allowed a closer proximity to them than is more generally gained.
He is a miniaturist in a way that some brilliant female but very few male fiction writers are.
I suspect these novels will be one of the handful that stick.
I had read Mrs. Bridge 4 years ago, and I wanted to read this companion novel.
While I gave Mrs. Bridge 3 stars, the ending has stayed with me and reading this novel, my rating should have been 4 stars.
He thinks it unseemly to discuss his professional life with his wife and three children and as he has no real hobbies or interests (outside of reading several newspapers with a cocktail each evening), the struggle to connect with his family is real.
He believes his wife should deal with their children's lives; he is there to give them money and to allow them to borrow the car.
Along with his Mrs. Bridge, written 10 years earlier, this is a masterpiece of spare, economical writing.
Connell uses short vignettes to methodically construct his portrait of a 1930s white, Protestant, Midwestern American family where despair and loneliness lie just below the mundane surface of upper middle class daily life.
How many writers could return to the same characters, plot, and time period, breathing more vigorous life into them the second time around?
I do think the (rather disquieting) ending of Mrs. Bridge is more skillful.
Terminating a story when the reader already knows what will transpire is a challenge that not even Connell may have been up to.
He was a healthy, mildly inquisitive, normal rabbit, utterly useless, and they spent the rest of the morning pushing lettuce and carrots at him.""Nothing spoke so persistently of summer as the ceaseless rasping song of the locusts- not the whirring lawn mowers or the morning twitter of sparrows in the birdbath or the shouts of boys playing baseball, the monotonous buzz of houseflies, little girls skipping rope on the sidewalk, not even the ephemeral moths bumping with mild anxiety against a screen.""On his way back to the office he stopped at Woolf Brothers clothing store and picked out a red-plaid wool shirt which he did not like.""If she could do that to Shakespeare she would probably destroy a lesser playwright.
These are two separate books written 10 years apart.
I read them as such but it's easier to review them together.
Mrs Bridge was written first in 1959, Mr Bridge followed in 1969.
I loved the writing style.
I would have loved to see this same world through the eyes of their children but we get some good glimpses.
The portrayal of Mr Bridge is so different from one book to another.
I found I could really identify with him as I read from his thoughts.
He even helped me to understand Mrs Bridge better.
Should be good!
This pair of novels (Mr Bridge and Mrs Bridge) is so much better than the movie.
You get to read about the same marriage, same events, same time period, from two perspectives: His and hers.
I read Mrs. Bridge first.
Interesting portrait of marriage, societal pressures, and prejudices during the pre-WWII years.
The synopsis says, "With their shared ability to capture the manners and mores of the American upper middle class, best-selling author Evan S.
Both authors are acute observers of human nature.
It's interesting to note that this one was published in 1969, ten years after Mrs. Bridge.
I love the quiet stories of everyday disappointment, hope and going forward with life. If you have managed to miss this classic examination of the marriage and family life of the very bourgeois and middle American, mid-20th century Bridge family...give it a try if you like domestic fiction with a retro flavor. Sure, the characters are imperfect. They demonstrate devotion without passion...they over emphasize the trivial and they totally misread one another...sometimes with tragic results. But isn't this sometimes part of life?
Wow. One of the best books I've read in a while. Connell's eye and ear are so sharp and subtle, his sentences so precise. Nothing really happens--or, rather, lots of things happen but don't add up to anything you could call a plot. A great book that gives the lie to our impoverished ideas about the importance of 'hook' and 'plot.' Read the last ten pages slowly because I didn't want it to end.
Otherwise, the bulk of their lives are lived apart.Mr. Bridge does occasionally ponder why the home and work life are so segregated:“He sipped the drink, feeling too tired to eat, and wondered why he could not talk to the family about his work…Now they were asking.
Presumably Mrs. Bridge does as well because she never confronts him again.His secretary Julia, one of the three indispensable women in his life, the others being his wife and his housekeeper and cook Harriett, asks if he’d like to stop somewhere for a drink after leaving the office one night.
The fundamentally decent Mr. Bridge is every bit as obsessed with propriety as his wife, though he is also obstinate, selfish, and racist - he vehemently denies the latter charge when confronted by his children, but if he were living in the present day he would be a Fox News viewer for sure.
The book is as riveting as its predecessor; I love that it takes place during the same years as described in Mrs. Bridge, and tells of many of the same incidents, but from Mr. Bridge's perspective (he is a very remote character in the first book, which is entirely fitting).
I read Mr Bridge after Mrs Bridge and found it equally as engaging. The writing is succinct and pared down, yet there is so much meaning between the lines. There is no drama but there's no need for any. The book bears a poignant message - time passes quickly, so don't waste it and don't forget to live! The last paragraph about joy is particularly memorable.
I remember really liking Mrs Bridge... but somehow the episodic telling wasn't doing it for me with this one. I like the darkness and the humor. But I quit with a hundred pages left to go because nothing really different was going to happen and I could tell that if I did stick around and finish it, that I'd only be left with a stinging melancholy. Which, ew.
Probably too quiet to be a contender for the Great American Novel, but it ought to be up on anyone's list. Every chapter is like a sonnet, turning on the couplet in the end. Emotionally taut. Deeply compassionate.
His wife, remembering the days of their courtship, is rebuffed when she asks him to read to her again from "The Rubaiyat" of Omar Khayyam, and he also dismisses his secretary in what he feels is a fit of hysteria after she confronts him about the simple fact that he can't even remember the anniversary of the date she began working for him, a fact he that doesn't even register with him even after she confronts him.::: The Undesirable Companion :::Connell has written Mr. Bridge in the same concise style as its companion novel, with short chapters often less than a page long, that give the reader snapshots of a life without the entire picture.
This book is equally well written, but of the two Mrs. Bridge is my favorite, which is a function of the kind of characters they are: Mrs. Bridge is an idle, wealthy housewife, perhaps not naturally drawn to introspection, but the nature of her life makes it impossible to avoid.
This is not a knock against the book: I thought it was an accurate portrayal of the cognitive dissonance and self deception that accompanies racism: Mr. Bridge resents any implication from his children than he 'hates Jews,' but at parties he makes anti-semitic remarks among men he knows 'feel the same way.' He insists he is not prejudiced when he clearly is - even acknowledging in his thoughts that he approves of the German pogroms.
Our hero is a by the book lawyer in Kansas City who can't understand any sort of person or life that differs from his.
There seems to be so much in the world that doesn't comport with the life in Kansas that he knows.
And there are changes coming, with jazz and divorce appearing on the scene.At many points in the book one does not like things Mr Bridge does, such as when he refuses to help his long time maid when her boyfriend was in jail.
I thought--don't do that Mr Bridge, open up a little.
I flipped a coin and read Mrs. Bridge first.
Here's a quote from her book that sums up her character.
When looking at a book and wondering why she hasn't read it she reads: "'Skimming over the years of existence to sink gently into a placid grave ignorant of life to the last.' She tried to think deeply over that quote but was interrupted." That's her life.
Her character drove me nuts.On to Mr Bridge.
All in all, I enjoyed the book combo.
Wondering how I would have felt about Mrs. Bridge if I had read hers second though...
I liked the book Mr Bridge more than Mrs Bridge.
Although the books are dated they really give you a feel for that time period--late 1930s and early 40s.
What a sad life for Mrs Bridge.
She was stuck in her upper middle class life with nothing to do.
He was clueless about the women in his life.
He loved his wife but had no understanding of why her life was so empty.
My facorite character of both books was Douglas.
He frustrated Mrs Bridge but she loved him and always encouraged him.
My friend told me to read Mr. Bridge first but I opted to be a contrarian and read Mrs. Bridge first.
What I found was short chapter after short chapter of examples of just how absurd modern American life is (especially in the 1950s world of upper-middle-class Kansas City).
These are rich, engaging novels.
I've heard there is a Paul Newman/Joanne Woodward film based on these novels, but I have such a vivid image of the Bridges in my mind now that I refuse to see the visual adaptation (though Newman does rock my world).
