https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10365.Where_the_Red_Fern_Grows
I read this book in 4th grade.
I informed him that it was my favorite book in the whole wide world and if he didn't give it back that he'd be sorry.
He then threatened to tear the book in half.
With that I walked over to him, hit him over the head with my cast (I had broken my wrist a few weeks prior), took my book and calmly walked away.I think that a book that inspires someone to violence in the 4th grade is worth reading, don't you?
I knew it was a large white oak because it is one of the last trees in the mountains to lose its leaves.Old Dan kept bawling.
It was the devil unicorn of the Ozarks.The silence was shattered by one long, loud bawl from Old Dan. I'd never heard my dog bawl like that.
The unicorn broke eye contact with Old Dan. With a scream of pain, he reared up on his hind legs and started pawing at the air.
I read this book in sixth grade and cried my twelve-year-old heart out.
Another book I share with my sixth grade students.
What I find is that this book in particular allows the boys in my class to get emotional about a story and be able to talk about it together and normalize it.
I've had many students tell me this is the best book they have ever read and I am glad that I get to share it with them each year.
I would love to do this as a read aloud but I know I wouldn't be able to get through it.
Some will say how they love these books and how possibly there was just no other way to "realistically" end the story.
While fiction does instruct, there are some lessons I learned from life, I don't need to have them rehashed in leisure time activities.The struggle this young man faces and love he feels may in some manner mitigate the pain and loss, there are lessons and we're told that maybe what happened was for an overriding reason, but for me that does little to help what always strikes me as emotional manipulation.
I read this book when I was in grade school and it always stuck out as an effortless read. I still remember the storyline and the characters and the ending was magical.
The stationmaster, sensing something more than two dogs and a boy, waited in silence."Woodrow Wilson Rawls' timeless coming-of-age Classic is a beautifully heartbreaking story and sentimental favorite.
Where the Red Fern Grows explores the love between a boy and his dogs and the bond between two dogs.
I highly recommend this novel to children of all ages, including grown ones, who have ever loved a dog or been inflicted with the "dog-wanting disease." Billy is a wonderful example of character, especially for young children.
Excerpt:"Men," said Mr. Kyle, "people have been trying to understand dogs ever since the beginning of time.
We finished it! I read this aloud with my kids and as I read through the final sentences, we were all in tears. I am not talking teary eyes, but body rocking sobs. My six year old did not stop for almost twenty minutes. When he was finished he said it was the greatest story he had ever heard. My eight year old wanted to meet the author and thank him for such a great book. I loved this book and recommend it to everyone. Just read it with a box of tissues nearby.
Excellent story! Heartwarming and spiritual! 😊
It would be the kind of world that God wants us to have – a wonderful world.” Re-read December 2016Oh God, ugly cry time.
I think that is a a valid argument, but for me, it did not change my view of the book after reading it again decades later.Original Post:This is a little generic review way after the fact...
This book was read to my class in the 4th or 5th grade by our teacher.
The book moved me and I remember loving it.
I read the second book Summer of the Monkeys on my own and loved it too.
At least he gets bandaged, but Sammie soon abandons the family when he develops a fear of people (go figure).The first part of the book is Billy saving up money and working hard to get dogs – not for companionship at first, but hunting partners – and eventually he succeeds in getting both of his goals met – dogs and training them to be strong hunters.
What bugged me is the author took the religious tones of the books to an unhealthy level with the father being especially annoying - Spoilers for the end - (view spoiler)[When Billy and dogs achieved their goals of killing animals or escaping animals, they praised God. When the tragedy strikes, he’s angry at God and wondering why it happened.
The stationmaster, sensing something more than two dogs and a boy, waited in silence."My Dad didn’t grow up in the Ozarks, but he trapped animals as a young boy to raise money for a dog.
When he was able to return to being a civilian pilot, the first thing he did with the money he saved was to buy another dog.
You can read every day where a dog saved the life of a drowning child, or lay down his life for his master.
One of the first hunting scenes with the dogs is a raccoon was treed in the giant and biggest sycamore tree in the valley.
This is the moment Wilson decides to make Man vs Nature and Billy decides he made a promise to his dogs so of course he has to cut the tree down.
I also know a tree has consciousness of it's own and it's sad to cut them for no reason and nut honor them in some way.
I don't get how it works.I was so caught up in the story at the end that I didn't even notice the word 'coon.
There are a handful of books we read as children that so completely capture our hearts we cannot and would not ever forget them.
An elementary teacher read this book to my class when I was in about third grade, beginning for me a love that has seen me through many personal readings, with even more readings to my own students through the course of my career as an elementary teacher.What most people do not know is that this classic tale of a boy and his hunting dogs was actually written twice.
This classic tale of a boy and his 2 dogs is perfect for parents to read to their children.
If there's one thing I learned from this book it's this: Fuck cats.
Hell, even Billy's family left their cat behind when they moved.
Yeah, man, cats suck.Now that I've made plenty of enemies, I will try and express my true feelings about this book.I laughed.
I did a number of cliched things while reading Where the Red Fern Grows.
I dug running around with Billy and Little Ann and Old Dan, and I hate that I was one of the only kids in America who didn't get to read this book while being institutionalized...
Read it, and may your hatred for all things feline burn a hole in your heart.
Well. This book is terrible! I was told it had positive message and was filled with life lessons. Life lessons? Life Lessons!!! Why that boy and his dogs chased us all over the place and you don't want to know what happened when he caught us. No siree. Ricky.My cousin Rocky in the minutes before he was caught by Billy. (hands clearly up in surrender)
(view spoiler)[The dogs die. WHY do they always do this to dogs in children's books? to quote Gordon Korman's delicious farce, No More Dead Dogs "the dog always dies. Go to the library and pick out a book with an award sticker and a dog on the cover. Trust me, that dog is going down." For those sick of getting attached to lovable animals just to have them die in AGONY, try Kate DiCamillo's delightful book, Because of Winn-Dixie; despite the award sticker on the jacket, Winn-Dixie survives. (hide spoiler)]
Anyway, when I really started reading for pleasure it was The Call of the Wild that I read, followed immediately by White Fang, and then back to Old Yeller again – because my search for another book about man's/boy's best friend in my small school library had run dry.
Frankly, the ending of Old Yeller killed me, but I loved it for what it got right – that deep affection a boy (or girl) can have for a dog.So if I had found and read Where the Red Fern Grows back then, the resulting tears would have been much like those other books, but I'd have loved it too.
Fantastic emotional roller coaster ride that was as good now as when I read it more than 40 years ago.
There are tears of joy & sorrow, triumphs & defeats - a lot of life in such a few pages.
Billy's grit & determination are something for every child to aspire to.In this read, I found the background of the times most interesting.
His love for the dogs, knowledge of the game, & thrill of the hunt was very well done.
I've had a lot of dogs over the years & all but the current crop have died one way or another, some at my hands.
This was the first book ever that made me realize how cruel books can be.. the first book that made me sob and cry and wail and wanna chuck it against the wall and question  WHY?! But this was also the first book that I truly learned to cherish. This book will always have a spot in my heart. I need to own a copy. I haven't read this book since around 2000 and I think I'm ready to reread it now. BRING ON THE FEELS!
His cutting down of an old beautiful sycamore tree just to catch a raccoon.But the main thing that bothers me, besides a kid being killed with an ax was the gruesome way the dog's died and the mother's explanation for it.
If I had a child who had to watch our pets pass away there's no way I'd say "God took them." even if I was religious because you'd just turn a child against God and with good reason.All that ranting aside, as an adult, I really don't like this book as much as I did when I was a kid.
We had to read Where the Red Fern Grows in 5th grade, and I have to admit I was completely dismayed that we had to read a "boy book." I struggled the whole time to distance myself from Billy, Old Dan, and Little Ann, probably flipping my permed hair and muttering "this is *so* stupid" and "who cares about a couple of dumb dogs?" under my breath about 20 times.
How could you not?Years later, Kevin and I drove cross-country and listened to Where the Red Fern Grows on audio book (*expertly* read by Anthony Heald I have to say).
What isn't so nice is that during this festival they have coon hounds chasing a coon skin to a tree, and then the dogs get to that tree and bark up a mighty storm, for in that tree they have a raccoon in a cage.
He cared for them and loved them, but neither I nor the raccoons cared for him or even for his dogs.
As for me, I will throw my copy of the book into a tree, and the dogs can bark it down for any kid who wishes to read it.
Review to come. Let me just go collect my feels, first.
The synopsis: a boy gets two purebred hunting dogs, goes around hunting animals.
Ends up getting his dogs killed because he's too selfish to rethink his actions and ethics.
I revisited it several years later, after I'd learned what "animal cruelty" meant, and I was really appalled at how Rawls ends up saying exactly the opposite of what he thought he was saying.
The kid was a selfish, narcissistic hunter who decided that his own life was worth more than his quote-unquote "beloved" dogs.Dear Mr. Rawls,If you love someone?
You don't put them in situations where they'll be forced to sacrifice their life for you.
I think there are going to be a lot of middle-grade readers that end up being a hot mess and their heart ripped out after reading this one. Oh wait, maybe I just described myself. A wonderful, coming of age story that I truly enjoyed. Who would have thought running dogs and catching raccoons could be so intense and exciting? So much to this story and one that I highly recommend. Grab the Kleenex and brace yourself. Loved it!
4.5 stars. A classic story of a poor young boy in the Ozarks, saving his money for two years to buy two redbone coon hounds: a male (Old Dan) and a runt female (Little Ann.) Together always, they become the best racoon hunters in the area, eventually competing for a top award. Lots of adventures for the trio, whose companionship is indefatigable. Not sure how I missed this one growing up...
You know how everyone you know says they cried after they watched "Old Yeller"?
Yeah, I didn't cry nearly as hard watching that movie as I did when reading this book...worse yet, we read it for an English class in jr.
high--yeah, that's a stigma an already geeky girl needs on her middle school resume!Regardless of that, this is still one of my all-time favorite books.
It does a great job of portraying loyalty, stamina, work-ethics, and love at a level that children and adults can understand and relate to.If you don't tear up reading this book, you have no soul!
This was a nice quick read.
It felt dragged out, but the plot and overall message was very deep.
The book wasn’t that long to begin with and somehow it did happen to feel lengthy.
I like how it is realistic and the author didn’t hold back on depicting real life events.
I never had any pets as a child so it was nice reading about this unbreakable bond Billy had with his dogs.
I admired the way he was portrayed.
The way that religion was indirectly/directly presented was interesting.
I am not sure how I feel about that though.
Most all of us remember this from our childhood and have similar feelings to this very day.
How can a book not be five stars while still evoking such memories so many decades later?
But today I read for the first time a short excerpt of the authors life that some kind soul at Goodreads wrote and it compounds the feelings this book will bring to memory down the road.
Obviously, the book is a recommendation for all,;you, your nephews and nieces, and children especially so they can talk about their feelings after reading it.
But I also recommend you read the synopsis of the authors life.
However, I am very much AGAINST hunting as purely and generally a sport and pastime, and the manner in which hunting is not only described but also feted as almost a type of religion in Where the Red Fern Grows, really does tend to get under my skin so to speak (and is also one of the main reasons this classic of American children's literature has never managed to become a favourite, as the hunting scenes, or rather, how positive the hunting scenes are envisioned and described both bother me now and also bothered me in a major and uncomfortable manner when I had to read Where the Red Fern Grows for school).
