https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/434228.Dress_Her_in_Indigo
He'll probably turn out to be a retired female wrestler going around in drag.”MacDonald, always a terrific writer, intersperses wonderfully descriptive moments of the landscape and people of Mexico as he takes the reader deeper and deeper into the sad story of Bix’s life in Mexico:“There was evident poverty, beggars with twisted limbs, sick children, stray mongrels, but there was a sense of great life and vitality, of enduring laughter.”And we get a terrific character portrait of Emilio Fuentes, a thirty-something businessman who knows how to live.
”The dregs of dreams were all of childhood, and in the morning mirror I looked at the raw, gaunt, knobbly stranger, at the weals and the pits and the white tracks of scar tissue across the deepwater brown of the leathery useful body and marveled that childhood should turn into this--into the pale-eyed, scruff-headed, bony stranger who looked so lazily competent, yet, on the inside, felt such frequent waves of Weltschmerz, of lingering nostalgia for the lives he had never lived.”Travis McGee and his friend Meyer are asked to look into the final days of a girl’s life by her crippled father.
Eleven books into my rereading of the Travis McGee series and as usual there’s a Good and Bad side to it.Good = Travis McGee continues to be an interesting character who has rejected the responsibilities associated with a modern American life circa 1969 by working as a kind of hybrid detective/con man who gets involved in shady dealings to make a buck.
It was also published in 1969, so MacDonald is busy describing hippies who have flown down to Mexico to get high, check out, make love, make art, etc.
MacDonald describes all the types and it is gnarly and ugly.
Despite it being fiction, it does remind you that people have been doing ugly and ungodly things to each other for a long time.
One of the weaknesses of this book is McPhee's treatment of several of the gay characters.
I'm OK with gay people being bad.
However, I think McPhee tends to spend a bit too much time working through the whole gay preditor schtick.
This book was written in 1969, when the hippie movement and the drug culture were blooming, and Bix had clearly falling into what most adults of the time would have considered to be "bad company." McGee and Meyer will dutifully investigate and, naturally, McGee will find time to bed some interesting women who are desperately in need of his services.Like all of the books in this series, this one is pretty dated and reading McGee's observations of women, gay people and others can cause one to cringe at times.
I decided to re-read the Travis McGee series and picked this one off the top of the pile. Bad choice. I remembered too late from my earlier readings how much less I liked the stories that took place away from FL and the Busted Flush. Indigo takes place in Mexico, and it is an ugly, drug-filled story with almost no redeeming characters or narrative. I felt like I needed a bath after each chapter. I still have 20+ books to go and I'm sure I will fully enjoy most of them.
The father never got to know his daughter well, but his instincts on this may have been right.It’s the late Sixties and Bix ended up in Mexico in a camper with four other young people who fancied themselves hippies, dropping out from life in the States for a while.
One trailer park owner in Oaxaca explains to McGee that there are a few categories and one is the predators who get their kicks out of turning the weaker kids on and taking monetary or sexual advantage of them or both.
His life is in shambles: his wife died a few years earlier, and his only daughter walked out of his life, only to have died in an accident in Mexico.
He wanted Meyer to find out what he could about her last years in Mexico: Was she happy?
Our intrepid duo keep digging into who her friends were and find out a lot that they really didn’t want to know.
It also gave lots of room for McGee to expound on his views of American society at the time.
Number 11 in the series, from 1969, and this one's a bit off formula: McGee isn't out to recover money or goods, but rather a life story or perhaps a reputation.
McGee and Meyer spend most of the book in Oaxaca, trying to find out what really happened to a wealthy businessman's hippy daughter.
This one also seemed more sexually frank than the earlier books in the series, and also more brutal.
JDM is a great storyteller and the Travis McGee novels are a wonderful guilty pleasure.
Another excellent book in the Travis McGee series by John D. MacDonald. McGee and his friend Meyer assists a friend who lost his daughter in Mexico in an automobile accident. The friend wants to find out what was her life in Mexico. A surprise twist at the end.
A young woman named Beatrice Bowie (Bix) dies in an automobile crash on a lonely mountain road in Mexico.
The father wants to know more about the time she spent in Mexico and who she was.
He has lost his wife, is now confined to a wheelchair and since he spent more time with business than with his daughter, he wants to discover who his daughter really was.
Travis McGee and Fred Meyer are hired to travel to Mexico to find the answers.
Bix had gone to Mexico with several other young people where she becomes addicted to one drug after another.
Much better than the last McGee. Trav and Meyer travel to Mexico to investigate the death of a friend's daughter.
(I suspect she is actually still alive...!!)I believe this is why I love Mr. McGee so much:"Old friend, there are people - young and old - that I like, and people that I do not like.
The former are always in short supply.
I am turned off by humorless fanaticism, whether it's revolutionary mumbo-jumbo by a young one, or loud lessons from the scripture by an old one.
Meyers and McGee travel to Mexico on behalf of a father who lost his daughter there.
The girl had gone down, fallen in with a bad crowd, became addicted to drugs and died mysteriously.
The father wanted to know what life had been like for his daughter.I've decided to take a break in re-reading the McGee series, but this was an excellent one to stop on.
It was a great story.
It has the wonderful balance of characters, poetic description and adventure I love in the McGee stories.
It also has one of the better endings.
All-in-all, it is a great specimen of McGee.
McGee investigating events that culminated in a young woman's death in Mexico. Written in 1969 and an outsider's look at youth (hippies), drop-outs and drugs. A bit dated but still a suspenseful read. It could have easily taken place in California, considering this was written around the time of the Manson murders, but I'm thinking MacDonald used the novel as an opportunity to visit Mexico instead. A book of its time and interesting for that.
He has a somewhat more intellectual friend Meyer who accompanies him on many of these adventures, as herein in “Indigo,” the middle (#11) novel in this 21-book set, written mostly 30-45 years ago.McGee has been hired to go find out about the last few months of a rich man’s daughter, named Bix, who has gone with some college-aged friends to Mexico but dies in an odd auto accident there.
So Travis and Meyer spend 95% of the book traversing various Mexican locales (while “entertaining” themselves often with the locals) investigating the last few weeks of the girl’s life, as she partied with other “hippies” and eventually died in a crash.
Sure, it may seem the attitudes he has are sexist, but I think in general he has a fairly healthy appreciation for women.
And while you might say the guy who smacked the woman on the bottom at work dates this, I don't think it does, because, as John Oliver recently said, things have changed less than you might imagine.
While not admirable, it isn't a shock, unfortunately.And MacDonald can get away with it when he write paragraphs like these:Siesta is sweet when the light is gold, and when the vivid, young face on the pillow looks into yours, beside her, inches away, and smiles the woman-smile older than time, her exhalations warm against your mouth, as with slow fingers she traces your brows, lips, and the shape of cheek and jaw.
Years ago, I read many of the Travis McGee series and loved them. I had never read this particular book and it was wonderful to spend some more time with Travis and his sidekick, Meyer. Travis and Magnum PI share the same vibes - I’ll start reading this series again. They definitely hold up to re-reading. Classics!
MacDonald finds modern knight-errant Travis McGee embarking on a strange mission at the behest of his hirsute sidekick, Meyer: go down to Mexico, where Bix Bowie--the beautiful young daughter and only child of a rich, recently crippled friend of Meyer’s--reportedly has died in a car crash, and try to fulfill the bereaved father’s yearning “to know if she was having a good time” (p13).
McGee previously has shown an instinctual affinity for Mexico and for the Latino culture; and, this time, he thoroughly indulges his Sybaritic side, joined by Meyer in wide-eyed tourist mode.
[Stop it!] He pushes the limits of the crime novel, setting new standards, taking on the hippie culture of drugs and free [not] love [Not!]; throw in revenge and torture almost of the “family honor killing” variety then add a dash of sex not according to Republican rules.McGee is on a “Find my girl, she ran away and I’m worried about her” Quest.
Did I mention that the last person Travis would ever suspect is torturing and killing the boys who hung out with the girl he is searching for in such evil ways that the Mexican authorities almost kick Travis out of Mexico just because he is looking for her?
I like John D. MacDonalds's Travis McGee series and given how difficult is to get your hands on the original paperbacks in used book stores, so do a lot of other people.I have to say though, that unlike most of the other stories, this one doesn't hold up as well. It is definitely a book of its 60s time period. A much darker story, it delves into the degradation and dissipation of the drug culture, which is unusually heavy for pulp fiction. Not one of my faves, but I still love Travis and the Busted Flush.
I'm not entirely certain that this is the author or really distateful book I remember. The author's Celtic surname and a protagonist who takes a big trip overseas every time life goes tits-up seem right. What I remember most about the Travis McGee's character in Mexico was the cold, grim depiction of murders and mentally incapacitated loose women. It had enough compartmentalized moralizing to be Scots-Irish sermon typing, but was the moralizing more about the author's WW II background?
Too much hackneyed macho stuff - when you start skipping pages you realize this is no masterpiece - or ... you're growing old.
Chop out about two-thirds of it, and you have the base for a rotten story.

Yes, his novels tend to be page-turners and Dress Her in Indigo is no exception.
And, even though there is a modicum of justice accomplished in the end, Dress Her in Indigo left me quite uneasy and quite unsatisfied.There is, as often is within the genre, more than one apparent murder and more than one apparent murderer.
Still, there are enough loose ends and red herrings swimming around in this story that one must keep reading—even when one quite dislikes those Travis is investigating and those on behalf of whom Travis is investigating.Of course, if one reads Dress Her in Indigo as a period piece, it offers a lot of texture for the mid-to late ‘60s.
This installment of the Travis McGee series is more in line with the promise of the very first volume despite the 1960's stereotypical nature of the female characters and the rampant sexual escapades.
The settings are particularly vivid, much more than in McGee's earlier forays away from Florida and into Chicago or the Southwest.What begins as a variation of Chandler's The Big Sleep, quickly morphs into a commentary on the sixty's counter-culture, the associated explosion of drug usage, and the Americano's view of Mexico in the mid-20th century.
A simple assignment, gathering the details of a young woman's life who tragically died in an accident while travelling in Mexico, becomes increasing convoluted the more McGee and his irrepressible sidekick Meyer uncover.
I enjoy the Travis McGee books.
Travis lives on a houseboat in south Florida.
In this book Travis' best friend Meyer asks him to help him on a mission to Mexico to find out how a wealthy man's daughter lived and eventually died while in Oaxaca.
Travis and Meyer find out who the girl "Bix" was hanging with and how her life came unraveled.
Bix became drug addicted and abused and used by her travel companions.
She apparently drove off a steep cliff in the mountains and died in a horrible crash.
Long winded musings by Travis and Meyer would cause my mind to wander off point.
And liked by many, King.
Vonnegut, Hiassen.And I admit it is not badly written.
But, very boring nevertheless.So, the Hero is one Travis McGee. Not a detective but someone who does things.
In this case going to Mexico with his sidekick and trying to reconstruct the final days of a young woman, whose father had already picked up the corpse.
A tale of Hippie culture in the 70s.
Drugs & Sex and maybe a tiny bit of Rock’n’Roll.
Well, in the end it turns up, she is not dead at all, but kept sort of prisoner/rescuer by an elderly, but impressive lesbian lady.
#11 in the Fort Lauderdale, Florida PI Travis McGee mystery series.
McGee is a tough guy with a mind.
A wealthy old man laid up in the hospital is desperate to understand the last months of his daughter's life before she was killed in a car crash in Mexico.
She'd cleaned out her considerable bank account, left Miami traveling to Mexico with a group of friends and hadn't been heard from again.
Travis and pal Meyer ventures into the steep hills and strange backwoods of Oaxaca through a bizarre world of dropouts, hippies, drug freaks, and kinky rich people--and begins to suspect the beautiful girl's death was no accident.
I'm more a fan of the McGee novels set in Florida.
I just don't care for deserts.
Also, maybe I've watched too much Breaking Bad, but I absolutely anticipated McGee having a run-in with a drug cartel at some point, and that was nowhere to be found in this novel.
Not that I can really call that kind of omission a fault, necessarily, but the looming danger that always sneaks up on him so suddenly was notably absent in this book.
Just not my favorite McGee. It's also starting to wear on me, after 20-something John D.
MacDonald novels, that the sex in these is so glorified and idealized.
