https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/967511.Rascal
Rascal is a perfectly crafted book.
I loved it when I first read it at age eleven, and I loved it even more this second time through, when I'm old enough to...well, old enough...This is Sterling North's account of 1918-1919, the year he was eleven and added a baby raccoon to his already large and unwieldy menagerie.
Poe lived in the belfry of the church and called out "What fun!
What fun!" to people arriving for church services.
As Sterling's constant companion and everybody's entertainer, Rascal is the star of the show.
I read this as a kid & didn't really appreciate it since it was pretty much like my own childhood in many ways, even though mine took place about 50 years later.
Good times & I didn't appreciate them enough.The story of this coon was great.
My uncle raised several & at about a year old he always turned them loose as they got pretty mean.
They were never as nice as Rascal, but pretty close.
I also loved reading about the farm & times.It's set in 1918 & has some great views about WWI in which Sterling's older brother fought.
Have you noticed that books written prior to the 1940's are all set outside?
Everyone is outside all the time.
A childhood outside with random animals and a father with a benign neglect type of parenting style.
Raccoons, which were not a part of the Japanese landscape, were brought in as pets for the kids.
Then when they got unruly, they let the raccoons go in the wild.
But, back to the story, I love that that Sterling as a boy had so much freedom and independence and the space to roam around and discover life.
Highly recommend!
"Rascal" is an American classic, telling the story of how the boy Sterling found a little raccoon in the spring of 1818, and took him on as a pet.
The main part of this book however are descriptions of the American - and especially Wisconsin - flora and fauna.
Nothing is better to teach a young kid how to love poetry than to show him another young kid doing just that.
In any case, Wisconsin could not ask for a better advertisement, and I'd love to visit it now.Thus, 5 shiny little stars that Rascal can steal if he wants :).
As much a memoir as an animal story, this is a relaxing read.
Set in 1918 world events touch but don't really enter the story of a boy and his pet raccoon.
Spanish flu races through his town.But the heart of the story is Rascal.
And Rascal is all spoiled raccoon.The information about raccoons is very interesting.
Knowing something about how troublesome they can be, I could see some of the disasters coming.The illustrations are nice.Even more interesting are all the mentions of conditions in Wisconsin in 1918.
The description of Lake Superior.Yes, this is a children's book.
No, it's not just for children.
This book is a great classic, I'm glad it's still in print. I have an old copy from when I was a kid. :)
One of the most beautifully atmospheric books I've read in a long time, maybe ever. Sterling North's writing is pure poetry, and his childhood so beautiful, poignant, and full of classic Americana.
Although published as fiction, it is an autobiographical account of one year of the author's childhood, 1918, when he was eleven years old and adopted a baby raccoon.
He lived in Edgerton, Wisconsin, which he faithfully recreates as Brailsford Junction in the book.
He muses that he may want to be a doctor, but she tells him he is too sensitive for such work and that his mother would have wanted him to be a writer.
***For pictures of Sterling North's home, which is now a museum, go to this site:http://www.gojefferson.com/rascal/
I wanted to revisit this novel to immerse myself into Sterling North's writing style and find a deeper meaning in a book I had deemed as one of my favorites back in elementary school.
The author describes his relationship with his pet raccoon, Rascal, during his transition towards adolescence, with the backdrop of World War I and the passing away of his mother reflecting much deeper themes than those which I had originally perceived.
Overall, this story of friendship and maturation of a young boy is a poignant reminder of simpler times, but also serves as a tale of compassion.
Can I just say that I love raccoons?!!!
There are a lot of cute stories about Rascal that reeaaally make me want catch a raccoon and keep it as a pet even though my mom's family tried several times years and years ago.
Anyways, this book is adorable, and the ending made me want to cry.
There's one story where Rascal goes up to the sugar cube bowl, takes a sugar cube, goes straight to a bowl of water, and starts trying to wash it!
I love this book and Rascal and just EVERYTHING!
This one's for you Seethens.
I read this a while ago, it is a cute story.
(I'm not sure the author intended it as a specifically "children's book" but it does get read to them and is in many libraries as such).
I doubt very much that he could still say that there is no water cleaner or purer on earth than Lake Superior!!People wonder how I can read so many books every year.
To be brutally honest, I was too tired to do much else.The only thing is, it may have been a factor in people trying to make pets of raccoons, thinking they were going to have the same sort of wonderful experiences, in the sixties or the seventies or the 2000s.
I love how you learn a lot about raccoons along the book too.
It was a really good book and I thought it was cool how he got the idea from his mom because his Aunt Lillie told him that she thought he would grow up a writer.
The reason he wrote Rascal, was because of his mom (that passed away when she was 47) thought he would be a writer.
I loved the book too much to hate it from the ending.
The ending was kind of a more understanding ending but it was still really sad more than bad.
In my early teenage years I did not read much in part because I could not find the right connections to interesting books.
Sterling North is a fabulous writer and it’s easy to see why “Rascal” won the Dutton Animal Book Award in 1963.
When I finally decided to read this book little did I know that it fit into my core interests being; a memoir, the WWI era and full of nature.
With direct simplicity Sterling North states “All of my friends in the book, both animal and human were real and appear under their rightful names.
Nice story of a boy and his pet raccoon. The setting was superb and I enjoyed that the majority of the book was outside. I found it interesting that the author used the book to introduce evolution to the reader, and to idealize it, all while participating in religious norms of the time. I would enjoy discussing that with the author. My oldest two children (11 & 8) selected this to read with me for Socratic discussion, so I will be curious if they noticed the worldview elements.
This is a darling, engaging, incredibly well written story of a boy and his pet raccoon during the years of WWI. North writes about a boy's daily life with descriptive thought-provoking prose. Meanwhile, he's really writing about loss, conflict, loyalty, and growing up. It's a beautifully crafted book.
This is one of my all-time favorite books - gentle, bittersweet, nostalgic, simply wonderful!
One of my childhood favorites-- for its portrayal of children's freedom, adventures outdoors, and of course for the pet raccoon.
(To be honest Brian read this aloud to Asher and I didn't hear all of it, but I wanted to record the books we've read to Asher and how much we liked/disliked them.)Asher LOVED this book and still mourns the fact that it's over. He says it's his favorite book we've ever read to him. Of course, he's a huge animal lover so that plays a part in his book favorites.(Read Jan/Feb 2017)
This is a beautifully poignant book that tells the story of a very special year in the life of the author when he was young.
The author does a beautiful job in explaining his world to the reader so much that his aunt was right.
He brings you so much into the world that there is no room for imagination since you right there with him - face into the wind, banded tail flowing out behind you.
You see a country that is on the edge of moving forward and yet of being blissfully stuck in time - a world that is right the way it but still facing the destructive change of its innocence.
Jerrit Schramm4/1/098-1 LARascal The book Rascal is a classic story that was written by Sterling North, who is also the main character. Sterling lives on a farm in Wisconsin with his widowed father and their extended family of pets such as Poe the Crow. The story starts out when Sterling and his best friend, a German immigrant, Oscar Sunderland are hunting for a raccoon and come across the den filled with five tiny babies. Sterling decides to take one home and raise it himself like he did with s
After Sterling has raised the raccoon, which he named Rascal, his father takes the two of them to a lake a few miles from their home for a day trip.
At the end of the story, Sterling, his Dad, and Rascal go on another camping trip and meet a man who has a summer cabin in the north woods.
If I was going to recommend this book to any group of people, it would be the people who like a good story about a classic man-animal friendship with outdoors content.
1. This story follows the life of a raccoon who was caught as a baby.
He becomes the pet of a boy who is having some troubles in his life.
Rascal becomes a good distraction for Sterling.
Sterling must choose what to do with his pet.
Any student who likes nature or animals would benefit from this book it would give them a good idea about why wild animals should not be pets.
I could not find any media having to do with the book but plenty of information is out there on Raccoons.
Rascal  I had my old dog Teddy for 6 years; he came across the county with me, California to Massachusetts to Rhode Island.
I happened to be 10 or 11 years old when I had to let him go.
Just like me, Sterling in the book Rascal had to split from his pet raccoon Rascal.
The main character Sterling and his raccoon have trouble getting along when they do things together.
Sterling is attempting to get things done without much help at all.
An example is Sterling trying to build a canoe for 3 years.
there is nothing much to be said about this little novel, it is a classic and as much as nothing rea
He spends summer afternoons fishing and swimming in streams, and his evenings building his own canoe in the living room of his father's house.
And it inspired many of my own boyhood interests: swimming and fishing in streams during family vacations to the Sierra Nevada Mountains, exploring with friends the gully near my childhood home, and even buying my own pet mynah bird--raccoons were not readily available in Southern California.
I would later come to appreciate the book's significance to my father, who also lost his mother at a young age (and had a pet raccoon), and appreciate him for sharing it with me.
I first met Rascal (that is, read Sterling North's memoir) when I was 12 years old; quite a while ago.
Since I have a group of raccoon visiting me nightly, I thought it would be fun to reread this cherished childhood book.
Sterling North's well written account of the Wisconsin area reveals a time now long gone although not anachronistically; his writing is as modern and accessible as any current writer.
(Sigh.) Rascal the raccoon is actually an embellishment to the heart of the story, which is that of a boy coming of age during a time when kids were able to be kids, removed from the worries and concerns of adulthood.
Although I couldn't remember any of the specifics, I remembered loving it.
So I bought the book in the hopes that I could read it to my daughter since she loves learning about animals.
I wasn't able to relieve her of her fears because honestly I couldn't remember what happened in the end, although I was pretty sure it wasn't anything bad.
So I told her I would reread it by myself and then after I was sure that nothing bad happened we could read it together.
It is a fantastic book that leaves you wishing for simpler times.
This is one of those books you can tuck into a pocket for reading in odd moments (although you may find yourself finishing it in one sitting).
Because I love it so much I keep a "loaner copy" to hand along on a moment's notice if I encounter someone who hasn't read it.NOTE: it's one of those "children's books" - I'd say a good reader could read and comprehend it in third grade but the sparkle is keen enough that no one has ever outgrown it.
