https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20758175-the-life-we-bury
Let me just say that the narrator of this book is awesome! I mean 5 Star! This book is excellent in audio!Really good debut novel. Fun mystery with likeable characters and some good twists and turns. I loved Lila and Joe! You need to be able to suspend disbelief for this one. Recommended for mystery/thriller lovers!
He chooses a man named Carl, a Vietnam veteran who’s also a convicted rapist and murderer.
Carl has an interesting background including some secrets.
As Joe discovers more about Carl and gets him to open up about his past, he realizes that there’s a lot more going on and must uncover it all.Joe and Carl are the main characters and the book focuses primarily on these two.
I truly enjoyed all the characters, the plot with the twists, and the suspense.
The characters are all well written and everything felt realistic to me.
Wow, what a great book!
Just really enjoyed this book, unusual and great story.
What drew me to this book was the unusual story of a student, Joe, who has a biography assignment for his studies and decides to interview Carl Iverson, a dying Vietnam veteran and convicted murderer and rapist in a nursing home.
Joe has just left his home to live near college and try and finish his studies.
So there are several elements in this story, part of which is the 'crime part', where Joe is trying to figure out if Carl did the murder years ago.
The Life We Bury is a rewarding tale of two characters, Joe and Carl that are bonded together by buried secrets and the burdens they carry.
The tale is told through Joe’s eyes and ears and we learn part of the tale as Carl is telling his story to Joe. This made the audio version very enjoyable for me.
I highly recommend the audio version of The Life We Bury for those times you want to get lost in the tasks and chores that need to be done.http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
Then Joe and his neighbor Lila obtain Carl's trial file and both begin to dig deep to find the truth.
In the midst of this, Joe has to deal with familial problems making things even more difficult.In the Life We Bury, sometimes Joe Talbert, seems intelligent beyond his years.
Further, I thought the narrator, Zack Villa, did an excellent job narrating the voices, changing the tones for each character, especially Joe and Carl.I listened to the audiobook, in my car, doing chores and during work lunch hours (basically whenever I could) and I had a hard time controlling my emotions especially during the last 1/4 of the book.
As it turns out, Carl Iverson the paroled convict and war veteran, is a major reason this book is so lovable!The heart tugging, suspenseful book centers around Joe, a street-smart college student.
He never knew his dad, his mom is a raging alcoholic and his almost grown brother, Jeremy, is a perpetual seven year old due to his autism issues.Our guy, Joe, literally stumbles onto a mystery while writing a biography essay on a nursing home resident, Carl Iverson.
Carl doesn't particularly care if he is exonerated or not, which makes the mystery even more compelling.
4.5 stars.It's been said you should never think you know everything about a person's struggles because they may be struggling in ways you could never imagine. There's also the old saying that you shouldn't judge a book by its cover. Both of those concepts get healthy exploration in Allen Eskens' bleak yet wonderful  The Life We Bury .Joe Talbert is struggling to get by on a day-to-day basis. He can barely afford college yet he's determined to stay there as long as he can, but he has to deal with
A Vietnam vet, Carl was convicted of the brutal rape and murder of a young girl.When Carl and Joe begin talking, Carl makes it clear he will not lie to Joe. He simply wants to tell Joe his story, and Joe wants to understand why if Carl and his friend Virgil both insist that Carl is innocent, things went so awry during his trial and Carl never tried to correct the situation in all this time.
Joe gets the idea to go to a Seniors home, convinced that long lives would hold more information, especially about times long past.Out of the possibilities to interview, only one intrigues Joe by the uniqueness of his story: Carl Iverson, convicted rapist and murderer.
He is dying, and although skeptical at first, he sees Joe as an avenue for telling the truth of his story as a killer and as a murderer, while Joe learns the difference between the two and is on a mission to write about Carl’s role as both.This book grabbed my attention from the beginning.
Naturally, he waits so long on starting, and he ends up going to a local nursing home to find a person to write about.Carl Iverson is the man that he meets in that nursing home.
He agrees to tell Joe his life story, calling it his 'dying declaration'.
Joe begins to hear Carl's story, dig into the evidence, and do his own investigative work.
Jeremy brought some much needed relief to this heavy story.Wow!
The audio was great, the narrator really brought the story to life, as well as, all the characters.
A great story, audio, and thriller.
Joe is assigned to Carl Iverson who has been released from prison because he is dying.
Now what kind of conversations would take place in the presence of a murderer?Joe's feet are like sandbags as he makes his way into Carl's dimly lit room.
But with each visit to the nursing home, Joe and his girlfriend, Lila, are convinced that there is far more to Carl's story than the willowy seaweed floating on the surface of this ocean.
The scope of the story widens from the simplicity of a college assignment into the dangerous footholds of a treacherous past.
Zack was a flawless voice!!!Something about the way Mr. Zack Villa read this novel, was absolutely the perfect combination of real - calm - not too phony or hyped - but always held my attention.
This was a ‘daily deal’ chance-buy - knowing nothing about it except what the Goodreads blurb said.....along ‘with’ 52,852 ratings - and 6,103 reviews with an average of 3.94 stars.
so I can take a December holiday break and not write ANOTHER REVIEW ( maybe a few more breaks this month too while on vacation with Paul for our 39th anniversary), ....
3.5 stars!this is a very good mystery debut, with memorable characters and a fairly standard/familiar plot, but it's got enough promise in it that i am very confident his second book will be remarkable.joe talbert is a 21-year-old college student tasked with writing a biographical piece on an elderly individual for his writing class.
joe is also dealing with a heap of personal problems - his bipolar alcoholic mother has shacked up with a man who has been abusing joe's 18-year-old autistic brother jeremy, and joe finds himself having to step in and care for jeremy and bail his mother out of jail while iverson's life keeps ticking inexorably away.the relationships between joe and carl and joe and jeremy are very realistically rendered, although the relationship between joe and lila is somewhat less so.
Excellent book and author. Great reading! A real page turner to the end. Looking forward to this authors latest novel.
3.5 A homework assignment turned murder investigation!
30 year old murder investigation!I loved the plot and the character of Joe Talbert.
He is a 21 year old college student and he has not had an easy life growing up in Minnesota.
His mom is an alcoholic and can barely care for his younger autistic brother, Jeremy(adored this character).Joe has an English assignment and ends up interviewing Carl, a man convicted of murder 30 years prior.
Joe's research leads to questions about the murder and he starts digging.
I absolutely enjoyed this multi-layered plot and know many have raved about this one.
I cannot believe this book gets anything less than 5 stars!!! It was FANTASTIC from beginning to end. A must read and I have so much to say but don't want to give anything away either. I'm casting Jeremy Irons as Carl and Logan Lerman as Joe.
2★Based on the reception by most, lucky for some new authors I’m not the one approving their debut manuscripts or on the nominating panel for Anthony Award books.
Maybe I’m just a jaded, hard to please reader?
Well, I liked the cover and it was on sale at Amazon for $1.99 so on my e-reader it went.
Perhaps a good travel book or beach read where there are many distractions.
The sound of an echo cannot be changed, and what's done cannot be undone.  An attempt to put one man's nightmare to rest may result in finally silencing another.  There are myriad meanings to be taken from the title.  Good story by a talented storyteller.  This is the second book I've read from this author, and I mean to pursue his others.
I started with the audiobook version but got so into this book I switched over to the ebook version just so I could read it faster.
I was that absorbed!
Loved this book!
Perfectly executed, the setting and the writing were top notch to keep me reading well into the night.
I’m so glad I took notice of the positive reviews for this book as it was even better than expected!
I even teared up at the end.
A great and fitting ending to match a thoroughly enjoyable and riveting story.
Will definitely be reading whatever else this author has to offer!!
At a local nursing home, Joe meets Carl Iverson, a dying Vietnam veteran who spent thirty years in prison for a brutal rape and murder.
Iverson only has weeks left to live and agrees to give Joe his honest life story down to the gritty details – his dying declaration.
A lot of this story felt like a solid 5 star read, but a couple parts didn’t work as well for me.
While it didn’t ruin the story for me, it felt a little too convenient for my liking.Overall, I really enjoyed this one and look forward to reading more from this author!!
The literary equivalent of having Cheetos and Diet Coke for breakfast.
The Life We Bury was an intense book that kept me on the edge of my seat. It was well written and clever. Plus, I was instantly drawn into the gripping plot and the well crafted and compelling characters. If you like thriller/suspense books, you will enjoy this fantastic debut. 4.75+ stars
3.5 StarsJoe Talbert is a young college student and part time bouncer, (with some great moves) but most importantly a caring big brother to Jeremy who definitely needs his support and protection from time to time.
Joe comes from a family with issues and carries a big secret of his own.
He sometimes shows naïveté, but big time resourcefulness when it counts.When an English class assignment requires him to write a biography, Joe visits a local nursing home to interview a complete stranger leading to more big secrets and a somewhat predictable, but interesting murder investigation going back 30 years where he gets himself and a pretty neighbor into big trouble playing amateur sleuth.Joe's autistic brother Jeremy was the star of the show for me in this 2014 debut novel that just zoomed on by!
Just ask Joe Talbot.Joe has an unreliable, alcoholic mother and an autistic brother whom his mother tends to abandon unthinkingly.
Joe is away at college, struggling to pay his tuition fees, working more than studying, looking out for his brother Jeremy, and admiring the girl next door.An assignment to write the biography of someone leads Joe to a residential home for the elderly, and to Carl Iverson, a dying Vietnam Vet and a murderer.
Joe's mother is a typical unreliable alcoholic, who will abandon her autistic son at the whiff of the next drink or for the company of a passing man.
Jeremy, Joes brother, is equally delightful and hard work.
Joe Talbert is a young man, who had to assume many responsibilities a young age, one for his autistic brother and also for his alcoholic and partying mother.
Until a school assignment threatens to overturn all for which he has worked.A solid debut novel, part legal story, part mystery with the right mixture of family intrigue and a rapid moving plot.
Loved his autistic brother and the parts concerning him served to elevate some of the tension of the story.
Joe himself is one interesting character that despite his own hard earned independence will find it impossible not to do the right thing.ARC from publisher.
The blurb makes it sound like most of the book has to do with a Vietnam veteran coming clean about a rape/murder conviction and whether he is guilty or innocent.
(view spoiler)[When the neighbor girl shows no interest in our narrator Joe, he just wants to win her over more.
Of course when he finds out she was a bit of a party animal in high school and got drugged/raped, that's enough to get them to hook up because...why?
Of course she turns into the damsel in distress by the end, because that's the only reason to have a female character involved at all, right?
Joe is doing a paper for his college biography class, prompting him to visit a nursing home in hopes of interviewing someone who has lived a long life, who might be willing to share their experiences, which will hopefully leave an inspirational impression.
Released from prison due to his medical situation, Cal agrees to be interviewed by Joe, who believes the old man is looking for someone to confess to, to unburden himself, before he passes on.
This story is not only an absorbing murder mystery, it is also a dramatic piece that explores the complexities of family responsibility, friendship, honor, truth, and justice.
Excellent audio of this sometimes touching story of a college student's search for justice, love and release from his own demons. Given the subject matter, it is surprising how much this feels like a light read. There were a few places where the story could've ended and it would be received higher marks from me but given the numerous implausible happenings that piled up at the end, this is a 3.5 for me. I'm rounding up because of the narration and because I enjoyed it more than most I've come across this year.
John Hart entered my life last year and I’ve been meting out his books like I’m in a fallout shelter and his books are the last few cans of beans left to this starving mystery lover.
So I’m thrilled to have been introduced to Eskens’ writing recently, a storyteller extraordinaire whose 2014 debut novel I recently devoured.
As all good mysteries should, this is a plot-driven, multi-layered story, but it didn’t disappoint in its character development nor in the caliber of the writing.
Thank goodness Mr. Eskens has written four more stories to add to my shelves, enough not to starve.
4.5 Stars - Fantastic Debut MysteryThe Life We Bury is a fast paced mystery with an engaging narrative.
As a mystery novel with an civilian main character (ie not a police officer or private investigator), the story itself was at times improbable.
However, I personally love these times of mystery stories, where regular people stumble into a crime investigation.
This is not a "cozy mystery", but rather a gritty examination of guilt and injustice.I would recommend this one to fans of mystery novels who enjoy both engaging narratives and memorable characters.
But if he didn’t, then how much more significant is that 30 years?That question is not specifically asked in the book, and for the most part Iverson is a secondary character in this story.
Joe is a college student, but has at least two things in common with Carl.
It’s easy to like Joe. He is the underdog putting himself through college.
What Joe gets into, along with his neighbor and crush, Lila, is a crime from the past that may be compared to a few of the thousand other books in this category.
