https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16388.Lord_Emsworth_and_Others
In this collection of stories, based around a few of Wodehouse's recurring characters, it's the title story that struck a hilarious blow to my funny bone.
Lord Emsworth is a hopelessly doddering old duffer with the tiniest bit of spark left in him, just enough left to make you love the old fellow.
A chunky section in the middle of the book is filled with a slew of Wodehouse golf-based one-offs, which are fine.
The remainder of the book is rounded out with tales of Ukridge, his overly confident ne'er-do-well character who never notices that he never does well.
I only remember the title story, "Crime Wave at Blandings", where an air-gun confiscated from an errant kid inspires the sportsman in everyone - including Lord Emsworth.
Pure fun. Who knew the upperish classes of England could be laugh out loud foolish. Wait, I forgot how the Royal family actually behaves. This is still better.
Some stories (like the first one) were five stars. Others were three (too much golf). So I'll average it out to four. Reader good.
Typical Wodehouse: funny, ironic, and spot on social satire. A fun read, but too many golf stories for my taste.

After another painful attempt at the BBC's current Blandings, what a balm to finish off the last few stories in this collection of the real Wodehouse.
The title story is the only Blandings here, with Ukridge and the Oldest Member dominating (and, unusually, no sign whatsoever of Jeeves).
Now, given my golfing knowledge extends exactly as far as crazy golf in Markeaton Park, the Oldest Member stories are far from my favourites - and yet, they retain that core Wodehouse-ness which at once soothes and delights.
This book of short stories is mostly made up of shorts about the "Others," though the Emsworth tale is one of my favorite Blandings stories. Several of the other stories are golf-heavy, and my eye skimmed right over those. There are also several Uxbridge stories in the last half of the book which involve Pushy Aunts, animals, and jewels, and these were delightful, classic Wodehouse. Jolly good!
Lord Emsworth may be the funniest of P.G. Wodehouse's characters -- all of them a ridiculous send-up the the British aristocracy. P.G. has been called the best writer in the English language. He is certainly the funniest.
This is my favorite short story ever written. It is not only hysterically funny, but it is also beautifully crafted. More is said about human nature in this innocuous little story than in many of the ponderous tomes of our time. Enjoy!
Collection of short stories including the extremely funny "The Crime Wave at Blandings". I also enjoyed the three golf stories and the three featuring Ukridge and found even the Mulliner and the Drones stories to be well worth reading.
Leading off with the classic tale "The Crime Wave at Blandings", the book then offers tales from Mr. Mulliner, golf tales from the Oldest Member, and 3 Ukridge stories. The best is the Blandings Castle story, which is hilarious.
This one is one of my favorite short stories of all times. It is not only funny, but it is also awesomely written.
Wodehouse is now going to be a vacation go-to author. Clever stories, masterful use of language, pleasant plot twists, wonderfully colorful characters.
Any book that begins by pompous people at an English being popped in the posterior by a mysteriously-ubiquitous airgun deserves a place on my permanent rotation of reading material.
This book includes a Blandings novella, and shorter stories with Mr. Mulliner, the Oldest Member, Freddie Wigeon of the Drones Club, and that Prince among Moochers, S.
Almost all these tales are enjoyable and as a whole they display the remarkable variety of characters created by Wodehouse.
I'd call this book a wonderful introduction to the man's work were it not for the story entitled "There's Always Golf." Now golf stories, along with the cricket based tales, are among my least favorite of the works of PGW.
Still, I have enjoyed some of the Oldest Member tales, quite a bit on occasion.
As always, Wodehouse is perfect for reading aloud!)I loved the first story (set at Blandings Castle)-- hilarious and masterfully written!-- but was surprised to find that so many of the rest of the stories were framed around golf (told by the Oldest Member).
There were also a few stories starring Ukridge (a Wodehouse character I don't remember having come across before), and one about a member of the Drones Club.The non-Blandings tales are amusing (even for someone who neither knows nor cares much about golf), but nothing could match the genius of "Crime Wave at Blandings", which had us both not just chuckling but uproariously laughing, time and again.I'd recommend this collection on the strength of the first story alone, but if you appreciate Wodehouse, you'll probably enjoy the whole thing.
This truly was a delightful set of stories.
The first and longest was the only set at Blandings, but this edition's cover art should give you an idea of how fun it is.
The volume also includes a few types of his stories that I hadn't ever read.
The first would be a few golf stories.
They are outrageous, of course, and perhaps not truly about golf, but enjoyable nonetheless.
Really got me looking forward to Plum Pie, which I will get to eventually (that volume even returns to those old pals Jeeves and Wooster!).
I've never read any of Wodehouse's short stories, but these are going down a treat, especially in audio form. They range from Lord Emsworth at Blanding's Castle to the Drones Club to golfing stories (which, surprisingly, work for me).These enjoyable stories reveal something of how Wodehouse turned out so many entertaining books of fluff. His fertile imagination at getting people into and then out of (usually) imbroglios is on display and one can easily imagine him coming up with six different short stories and then figuring out how to intertwine them into one splendidly amusing novel.
I listened to the audio book by Nigel Lambert. He did a great job; I'll even search his stuff out. But I still hear Jonathan Cecil when I think of Wodehouse.The draw here is the main story, as most of the rest are included in other PGW collections. This particular one was dramatized in the UK's "Blandings" series. It's so much better here! There they squeezed into a 30 min episode, but here it breathes as it must.
Lord Emsworth is my favourite Wodehouse character creation and I wasn’t disappointed with the opening story that features the earl fooling around with an airgun and growing anxious because of the unexpected visit from Rupert Baxter.As for “The Others”, I found these a mixed bag.
I’m not much of an Ukridge fan, to be honest.If not for the fantastic Lord Emsworth story, I would’ve rated this collection three stars, but the earl persuades me to up it to four.
I prefer Jeeves and Wooster when it comes to Wodehouse. The most amusing parts in this collection was the passages concerning golf and the Ukridge character. Charming but not passing the test of time.
These are middle of the road Wodehouse stories, expecting "The Crime Wave at Blandings," which is exceptional. The three golf stories had appeared the year before in the American edition of YOUNG MEN IN SPATS.
Witty. Some stories were kind of like mysteries - narrator dangles a resolution in front of you and you had to work backward with him to figure out what is going on or happened. First Wodehouse of many I’m sure.
Moving on in the Blandings Castle series, this is a collection of short stories, some about Lord Emsworth & the others are non-related stories as the title indicates. Fun, light, entertaining.
A humorous collection of short stories. I listened to lord emsworth and laughed out loud.
Simply hilarious!!
This was my first introduction to Ukridge, and what an entertaining introduction. P.G. Wodehouse does not disappoint.
An interesting collection of short stories. However, the brilliance of the first one makes the rest look rather dull. A pity.
So funny.
