https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11648261-the-sugar-queen
The Sugar Queen is a book clearly written for a particular type of woman.
And now Della Lee Baker, the lovable town skank has claimed squatter's rights on Josey Cirrini's closet.
Della Lee professes her desire to help the shy, awkward Josey find a way to free herself from her overprotective mother and take charge of her life.
It's a romance, plain and simple, written for women in their 20's and 30's who have forgotten the thrill of a first love and want to vicariously reconnect with that, but preferably not in a way that involves a creepy emo vampire.
3.75 starsI loved  Garden Spells , so I decided to give another of Sarah Addison Allen’s books a go. There’s the same lush storytelling with hints of magic that are just subtle enough to be believable. The Sugar Queen touches on many fairy tale elements while staying grounded in reality. (Please note: this is not a fairy tale retelling, it just has some faint yet recognizable allusions.)(view spoiler)[What didn’t work for me was the whole ghost story element. And the “hey, we’re all sisters” thi
3.75 starsI loved 
  Garden Spells
, so I decided to give another of Sarah Addison Allen’s books a go. There’s the same lush storytelling with hints of magic that are just subtle enough to be believable. The Sugar Queen touches on many fairy tale elements while staying grounded in reality. (Please note: this is not a fairy tale retelling, it just has some faint yet recognizable allusions.)(view spoiler)[What didn’t work for me was the whole ghost story element. And the “hey, we’re all sisters” thing was a bit too convenient and twee for me. (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I read and loved Sarah Addison Allen's first novel, Garden Spells, last year on the recommendation of my good friend Michelle.
In a Sarah Addison Allen book, you can always count on a little organic magic and my favorite instance of this in THE SUGAR QUEEN was undoubtedly the way books literally popped up around Chloe whenever she needed them.
She was walking by the creek along the wood line at the end of the property one day when she was twelve, feeling mopey and frustrated, when she saw a book propped up against a willow tree.
A sad woman (and we know she's sad because at least four different people show up to say so and then disappear from the plot) finds happiness and love, a true love is saved, family problems are resolved, and death is established as an okay place.If you have some extra time, like feel-good novels (and I personally do), and desire to learn a little about self-perception and a lot about why to not live your entire life in the same small town, you should give this book a chance :-)
Που όμως περιπλέκονται πολύ αρμόνικα με την γλυκιά αδυναμία της Αλλεν, την αφελή ελπίδα ενός μικρού παιδιού πως εκεί στα καθημερινά και απλά πράγματα κρύβεται μαγεία, το θαύμα.
Αλαφροΐσκιωτες υπηρέτριες, κυνηγούν φαντάσματα στο σκοτάδι σε μία διακοπή ρεύματος, αρώματα μέντας που διώχνουν τους ανεπιθύμητους, μια κόκκινη ζακέτα για γούρι και βιβλία που εμφανίζονται από το πουθενά κ συνεχίζουν να εμφανίζονται πεισματικά μέχρι να τα πάρεις στα χέρια σου.
Και γιατί να μην τα μπλέξουμε άλλωστε; Όταν όλα φαντάζουν απελπιστικά σκληρά και ασπρόμαυρα, φόρα μια κόκκινη ζακέτα, είναι μαγική, αν όχι, τουλάχιστον θα διώξει την μουντίλα και θα σου φτιάξει το κέφι!!!
Much like her debut novel Garden Spells, this book contains a blend of interesting food and magic realism.
She consoles herself with junk food and romance novels that she keeps hidden in her closet.
One day her boring life is turned upside down when she discovers local bad girl, Della Lee, hiding in her closet.
Desperate to be rid of Della Lee, Josey makes certain promises that lead her on a journey to self-discovery.
'Why do you buy books you don't even read?' our daughter asks us.
That's like asking someone who lives alone why they bought a cat.
3.5 I thought this book was a cute, easy read especially for the winter holidays. Her writing reminds me of Hoffman. A story filled with magic and romance and sadness. I like that her characters are in a tough spot but they persevere to come out better people. This book ended with a surprise ending, kinda creepy for the superstitious in us all...
This is my third book of this author.
Many love interests: some romantic and others scandalous; a little bit of magic; and a few secrets to dolly things up.
Southern snobishness with old family histories and a good plot.
A chicken-for-the-soul read for those who need something light and entertaining.
And I enjoyed the late and great Marco Cirrini, the old goat!
He made sure he owned more than just the town ...
Yes, he knew how to paint the town of Bald Slopes RED!
When money talk, secrets walk.I needed this palate cleanser.
Oh, and I really appreciate this author's original titles.
Always good.
If you have, then this book is for you.This is not my usual fare, but I was in the mood for something light, fluffy and sweet, like Meringue.
I didn't get the Meringue, but I got The Sugar Queen and it just hit my sweet spot.
I liked the characters in this book, they feel authentic, especially, Josey.
She dreams of travelling, but her perceived obligations to her mother hold her back, so she gorges on clandestine sweets and pastries for comfort, until she finds Della Lee. Della Lee and Chloe were colorfully written as well, but Josey is the star.
The author chose a very simplistic style of writing and spent very little page space describing the weather, the people's description, and atmosphere which doesn't bother me one bit, since she mastered the storytelling element.
I'd rather read a book written simply that engages me, than read a beautifully written poem with poor story and character development.The main character, Josey, made herself a warm spot in my heart the same way Della Lee got all cozy inside Josey's closet.
I cared about her and that's important for me as a reader, to care about the main character in some way.
You know how when you are not feeling well you are told to each chicken soup?
Well, this is my chicken soup.
I love reading books by Sarah Addison Allen, they are comforting, and in an odd way, familiar.
Yes, its not as good as Garden Spells, but this one is different.
Allen's books have magical realism, southern traditions, quirky characters....what's not to love.
This book tells the story of lonely, isolated Josey and the other people who come into her life from town, and how she changes over time.
I thoroughly enjoyed this one and look forward to reading more books by Allen.
This book was so sugary sweet that I felt like I was reading the Hallmark channel. Yes, I am not that into you! So, in the future, I need to remind myself to stay far away from the pitter patter of love books. Perhaps I am super spoiled by the love story of Ross and Demelza Pollack that I am currently reading, that I find The Sugar Queen to be so implausible that it is laughable.Sorry Ms Allen, but your books are just not my cup of tea.....without sugar or honey I might add!
*3.5 starsA very cute romance, steeped in magical realism and seasoned with Southern charm. This was picked as the first reading selection for a new book club at my local library--probably as counterpoint to the heavier reads of the 'other' book club. Josey Cirrini, 27 and still living at home under her wealthy mother's thumb, takes solace in her hidden closet of indulgent sweet treats. But one day she discovers something else in that closet...something that may help her 'get a life.' Some fun supporting characters help flesh out this quickly-read story.
Two young sheltered women in their twenties struggle with their pasts and their current romantic relationships in a small North Carolina resort town.
Nothing unusual there, except the author adds elements of magical realism that are not quite successful.
For example, there is a strange woman living in the closet of one of the women who may or may not be real.
The author's clumsy foreshadowing doesn't adequately prepare the reader for the supernatural revelation that doesn't really match the rest of the novel's traditional tone.
If romance is your genre, take a look, but this book doesn't rise above type enough to make it universally appealing.
And even though it is Sunday night, a notoriously depressing night of the week for me on account of tomorrow being Monday when I find I must return to a soul-stealing corporate job, I’m relaxed and riding high on the fuzzy afterglow of having just had my saccharine sweet girl tank filled to the brim by this enchanting book.I usually have to be in a special place in my life to receive sweet stories well and even then, my pessimistic side usually takes over and thwarts any enjoyment that might have been there.
Books come to Chloe when she needs them to tell her things; Della shows up in Josey's closet (which holds the stash of sweets, romances, and travel inforama that Josey hides from her domineering mother) to tell Josey to get a life, and Josey?
It's Della who brings the three of them together as Chloe's long romance is collapsing and Della's trying to decide what to do about the boyfriend who hit her.Allen's books about nice Southern girls, magic, food, and romance are utterly dear and beguiling.
Maybe you can see the ending coming, but who cares?
I will get a red cardigan - and think of Josey's. I enjoyed this even more than Garden Spells! I liked the chapter titles! And the way books inexplicably appear when Chloe needs them (or when the book thinks Chloe needs it). The relationship between Josey, Della Lee & Chloe develops. And the big laugh I got from the Cirrini's new maid near the end! I recommend it! I am so excited I must get her latest book!!!
I feel of two minds about how one of the story-lines ended (sorry, I am never rooting for a cheater) but loved all of the magical realism/supernatural aspects in this book.
Sarah Addison Allen is always a good read for the most part, so this book was very quirky and cute."The Sugar Queen" is about three women (Josey, Della Lee, and Chloe) living in a North Carolina town called, Bald Slope.
There is a lot of descriptions about cookies, snack cakes, chocolate, fried egg sandwiches, grilled cheese with tomato, etc.
Loved loved loved! Sweet magic, body and food positive. Adorable and heartwarming.
It's a world in which books with things you need to read at that moment simply appear out of nowhere and follow you around.
It's also a world where well meaning, even if lost souls appear in the weirdest of places to nudge your life in the direction you know you need to get nudged in.And it was just so with this book.
It's about so many things you'll be able to relate to, even if you haven't actually been in one of those situations yourself.The Sugar Queen is built on unreliable narrators and clueless people, or perhaps lost people, and it's written so that you're always a step ahead of the characters - even if you're a gullible reader (like me!) It makes you worry about them all the more.
I think this is now my favorite Allen book.Part of the reason I liked this so well is because it was exactly what I needed right now...essentially, I inadvertently pulled a Chloe in that this book showed up on my holds list and I checked it out and listened to it and it helped soothe my troubled soul.
It helped calm the oozing, black miasma that takes the place of my soul, is probably a more-accurate statement.This is a story about oppressed women, people who are kept in little boxes (closets?) by their mothers, their fathers, their grandmothers, their significant others, their perceived roles in society, and by themselves.
Her books appear right when I need them, this one in particular revealing itself in the clearance section of a half-priced bookstore, and I have concluded that her novels are always a welcome breath of fresh air.It may seem unfair that I am much more critical of other books than I am of Sarah Addison Allen's novels.
"The Sugar Queen" was especially wonderful to read, not only because of how sincerely I identified with Josey but also because of the way Allen threaded her characters together.
Let’s see…a story about a young single woman who hoards sweets and trashy romance novels in a cache hidden in her closet.
Her life was supposed to be simple and uneventful, and she was happy that way, with her chocolate, with her creme-filled cookies, or so she thought.
I devoured this story as easily as a warm chocolate chip cookie (I totally craved one while reading this book!), and with almost as much satisfaction, not feeling too full but still hungry for more in the end.
There are a lot of similarities with her other book, 'Garden Spells' - again it is a story with elements of magic realism, where the magic seems benevolent and determined to help people, but this time there are also some darker moments and it isn't pure escapism.
I discovered this author because Laura recommended her, so thanks, Laura.I just visited Sarah Addison Allen's website, which is a lot of fun (www.sarahaddisonallen.com), and was amused by this comment of hers about writing 'The Sugar Queen':"I tried every candy/cookie/sweet mentioned in The Sugar Queen.
For the sake of research, of course.I gained eighteen pounds while writing the book."
Reading this book is like assembling a large jigsaw puzzle that represents four sides of love.
Josey's story is about the hopeful beginnings of love.
Finally, in the last edge of our puzzle, there is Della Lee. She is a thirty eight year old woman, who has had a hard life.
The magic of this story lies in uncovering each piece and discovering how and where it fits into the puzzle.
This novel has real characters that you fall in love with.
Pick this book up and fall in love.
So sweet and charming!
The Sugar Queen is a mix of chick lit, fantasy, and contemporary romance, with some more serious elements related to family dynamics and self-esteem.
I thought it was funny how a lot of the main character, Josey's experiences were described like some kind of sugary sweet.
Like the best kind of expectation.
Chocolate expectation.” I have to admit the character development was excellent.
If you're a fan of chick lit with a magical element then you should check it out!My favorite quote:“Books can be possessive, can't they?
'Why do you buy books you don't even read?' our daughter asks us.
I didn't read anything about the story beforehand...I just knew it was a new book by the author of _Garden Spells_.
I'm glad now that I didn't read any information or reviews, because it made the whole story all the more fresh.
Allen seems to be developing a theme between her novels in regard to characterizing a non-human object and giving it a magical and charming life and influence on the other characters.
Allen writes these non-human characters so very well, they almost become more dear than the main protagonists.
Allen's books manage to surprise me.
I feel sorry for myself that I wasted three hours of my life reading this book. It was neither fun chick lit, nor was it quality magical realism, nor can I even put it in the same genre as a trashy romance novel. The metaphors were awful, the writing was terrible, and the plot was pointless. That being said, I did finish it, but I think that's more a testament to my desire to always find out what happens than to any talent on the part of the writer.
Το κέντησε πάλι το "παραμύθι" της η λατρεμένη Sarah !!!!
