https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/627614.Night_Soldiers
Furst has written enough books about this era to choke John le Carre.I’m not sure about the rest of the series, but his one’s a corker.What’s the book about?Simply put: Spy stuff.The protagonist, Khristo, a Bulgarian national, gets squeezed between the evil heavy-handed Fascists and the evil, sneaky Communists as each vie for the hearts and minds of the Eastern European countries they would eventually take turns steamrolling.
Furst is absolutely masterful at painting a scene, creating a mood, evoking a time and place, and fleshing out incredibly varied but wholly believable characters.
At first I thought this book was going to be wonderful, but in the end I only finished it out of stubbornness, long since having stopped caring what would happen.There is so much to respect here, but I just couldn't get into the story.
Also, his imagination for richly detailed characters who are very much a product of their times is nothing short of amazing.
For a real WWII buff, I could imagine that Furst is tough to beat.
Let's be straighforward and clear, darlings: "Night Soldiers" is one of the top ten spy novels of the last century. It's easily up there with "Tinker, Tailor" and "Agents of Innocence". Crisp, hard, pitiless, historically-grounded. Get it. Read it.
We like such fools, he said, and he had false documents, a Soviet passport, and a train ticket to Varna, in Bulgaria, and a ticket on a steamer across the Black Sea to Sebastopol.
I think he's got a point when it comes to the topic of men looking for love: I haven't heard Of Human Bondage being called dick lit despite the protagonist's aspirations.In Night Soldiers, the Balkans along with their inhabitants are almost characters, too--the brutal suffering; the dashing (yet again) of their hopes for peace or some kind of normalcy, the passive exploitation.
Furst deftly captures Khristo's disillusioned simplicity of youth and confusion at the world and his place in it.
Furst has this subtle way of slowing down the taut pace, almost lulling the reader with the mundane concerns of day to day life, while still keeping an unstable, uncomfortable edge.
This gives the reader a deeper understanding of Khristo's world and his reactions to it as we follow him in Russia, the Spanish Civil War, Paris and along the Danube.
This rather long novel took some reading as it seemed at times rather dense, it required a bit of determination on my behalf not to keep leaving it in favour of other faster paced novels ! This is my first novel by Alan Furst, and he is clearly a clever writer who creates very atmospheric moods albeit a bit "wordy" however good the writing is I needed time for this and it took a while to really get into it ! A good spy novel and enjoyable read.
Beginning in a small Bulgarian town in 1934, Furst follows Khristo Stoinev for the next 12 years or so, through the Spanish Civil War, Paris, and Bessarabia, an area of what is now Moldova.
He is sent to Spain as part of his spy work, and becomes the subject of one of Stalin's irrational purges, flees and spends the rest of WWII trying to stay alive.The book begins with a scene in Khristo's hometown, where his brother is beaten to death for laughing at a petty autocrat with delusions of importance, who is being recruited by a German.
Brilliant WW2 era spy novel.
Furst's characters are full and realistic, his dialog is crisp and believable, the plotting intricate and logical.
This book was a great, sprawling, epic story of a Bulgarian, Khristo Stoianev, recruited by the NKVD(Soviet secret police and forerunner of the KGB and FSB) in the lead up to the second world war.
Stoianev falls victim to one of Stalin's irrational purges during Stoianev's operations in the Spanish Civil War. He escapes to France, closely pursued by his former NKVD colleagues, and hilarity ensues.I recommend this book to anyone even tangentially interested in spy fiction, the second world war or the inner workings of Soviet espionage organizations.
Night Soldiers is not Alan Furst's first book - he had a modest career spanning a number of novels before this work - but it is the premiere of Furst as a truly towering author in the espionage thriller genre.
As highly as I recommend Night Soldiers, however, be warned that, like Le Carre and like Greene, the author is not shy about providing action, but it is never the central element of the story.
As you read, you can FEEL yourself in Paris or Moscow or Madrid.
You can SMELL the Gauloises and TASTE the pastis.Furst's plots, however, are weaker -- with twists more than slightly unbelievable (Stoianev just "happens" to see the Brotherhood Front symbol painted on the half-sunken barge in the Danube).
One can't be both Marxist and anarchist).
He also speaks of Stoianev's girlfriend frequenting a cafe in Paris because Picasso and Modigliani are seen there.
Furst's novels -- starting with Night Soldiers -- are good reading.
I've read them all.

This story spans 1935-45 in Europe and centers on Khristo, a young Bulgarian, is recruited into the Soviet intelligence service after his younger brother is killed by fascists.
It made me aware that war was raging in Europe before World War II and the fight against fascism which started in Spain during the civil war spread across the continent as the threat was recognized.
This is a book for people who love reading about this era.
Although it was a decent "read" (listen), it is not a genre I often turn to.
Calling this book a "spy novel" is doing it a grave injustice, and it also leads to readers who expect certain elements simply not present in this work (and hence, to lowered reviews).
If you are interested in what life during WWII in Europe may have been like for scores of ordinary people, then this is definitely the book for you; if you are in the mood for an exciting plot complete with car chases, encoded secret messages, and the like, look elsewhere.
Alan Furst is an elegant writer. Despite jumping around Europe and flashing back and forth between several characters, the narrative never lost my interest. I believe Night Soldiers is one of the first in a series of many, excellent espionage books, written by Alan Furst, set leading up to and during the second world war. The feeling of authenticity and historical detail is fantastic. I have read a few of the later books and am now starting back at the beginning to read them in order.
My first foray into reading this author but it won't be the last. Initially took me a while to get into but that is the only complaint that I have. Plenty of wonderful reviews already but I loved the scope of the novel, the time period depicted, the mood and the setting. Lots to savor and take your time with here.
Have read all of Furst's novels. Dark. Different. WWII from many different perspctives, all new to most readers.
Night Soldiers is the first book and Bulgarian Khristo Stoianev, who is recruited by the Russian NKVD in 1933 after the murder of his brother by Bulgarian fascists.
I enjoy how Furst develops characters and portrays Europe in the pre-war and during the actual war.
His characters wander through momentous times and in the small way, as they deal with the events around them provide heroic actions.
I also enjoy the aspects of the story dealing with spying, the training of the NKVD, the OSS, the actual activities, passing of messages, communication, etc.
And thus begins my love affair with the novels of Alan Furst.
I'd never heard of him until a New York magazine profile mentioned that the divinely prescient American Heritage editor Richard Snow, whose 1991 article in the NYTBR had rescued Patrick O'Brian from near oblivion, had anointed Furst his favorite historical novelist after O'Brian's passing.
My beloved Charles McCarry also weighed in and I was hooked.
And boy, were they right.
While I prefer the earlier, longer novels like this one, every one is a gift to the reader.
His theme is not spies so much but how fairly ordinary people trapped in extraordinary circumstances did their little bit.
My first Furst.
Not exactly what I expected -- and that served me well at times.
If you'd like to know more than a bit about the geography and wartime climate of southeastern Europe during WWII, I think that Alan Furst might be your guy.
The complexities of who was siding with whom and why are well explained to nit-wits like me.
Now I'm all straight.I don't think I'll rip into another Furst novel, though.
There's a guy I liked a lot who writes in a similar vein.
His novel "A Death in Lisbon" was terrific and had more interesting plot lines for my taste.
With an interesting plot and good reviews I had high hopes for Night Soldiers, but had to abandon it after persevering to almost half way. I can understand why people like it, but it dragged for me and listening to it became a chore. I've given it 2 stars rather than 1 as it was very well written and more a case of me not liking Furst's style than it being a bad book.
Slow start and sappy ending. Too long for the genre. Otherwise pretty good, if you like A.F.. 3.5 stars
Each book focuses on spies, but if the two I've read are any indication, take place in different settings with different characters.
We meet him at the beginning of the book when he and his brother watch a troop of Bulgarian fascists marching down the street.
Sascha, knowing he had been recalled, gives Khristo some tips.
We see Sascha again much, much later.Khristo knows what he has to do to keep avoid the same fate as Sacsha and while disliking it, manages to survive to his first two encounters over accusations of his betrayal of Russia.
In Bulgaria, in 1934, on a muddy street in the river town of Vidin, Khristo Stoianev saw his brother kicked to death by fascist militia. Can the action of this opening sentence be the foundation for excellent character development? A resounding yes. What better way to describe the motivation for a young man to want to fight for the NKVD, Stalin's secret police? Yes, there is some violence in this book, but not so much that you feel bloodied yourself.The novel is well-written combining character
Yes, there is some violence in this book, but not so much that you feel bloodied yourself.The novel is well-written combining characterization and plot.
And, since the first days of his time there, he had had his own secrets.With this novel, I was given greater understanding of how much was lost by those who fought in WWII.
The mute agony of these places - themselves lost in the silence of the endless, frozen land - would finish him if he permitted himself to feel it, so he had, by self-direction, grown numb, and now felt nothing about anything.
There were parts of this novel that nothing in the world could tear me away from, and those were followed by longer parts that made me fall asleep while reading and forget to pick the book up again for weeks.
The book follows one main character but will jump around to others often and treat each one like the start of a new novel and it never seems to come together in a way that makes it worth it.
It's worth the read, but often it's hard to remember that.
Set in the mid 30's, as war looms over Europe, and then leading into WWII itself, by way of the Spanish Civil War. The writer wonderfully sets each scene with only a few words, and the characters are all skillfully crafted.
Fleeing Bulgaria he finds himself recruited by the NKVD, the forerunner of the KGB.There is much which makes this book stand out from the run of the mill spy novels.
The only downside, for me, was that there was a tendancy to skip between characters and their various timelines.
Making the book slightly confusing in parts.
This is, perhaps, my favorite of Alan Furst's masterpieces of WWII fiction. It traces the story of Khristo Stoianev, a Bulgarian peasant, as fate shoves him from his remote village along the Danube to a KGB training camp in Moscow to revolutionary Spain and from there to Paris.His journey is the journey from Facism to Communism and finally to a sort of redemption. Along the way he finds himself fighting in all the major theaters of the European war and we see how it develops through his eyes.A must, must read for anyone interested in WWII.
I don't know what I can possibly say about this book (or this series) beyond "Alan Furst is brilliant." Or, as an older gentleman who saw me reading this book on the subway put it, "He's something special." Indeed, and this book may be his best. The amount of detail woven so seamlessly into poetic descriptions, characters, situations, passages...it surpasses mere espionage or war or thriller and becomes something much more vital, a tapestry of hope and survival during one of the more brutal periods of modern history.
Alan Fust has long been one of my favorite authors. Most of his other novels set in this period of pre-WWII to the end of the war were like snapshot of a time and place. This, his first novel, was a bit more rambling. Many of his others end abruptly, leaving you wondering about the fate of the characters. Here, he brings the characters to a conclusion at the expense of being concise.
It’s 1934 in Bulgaria when a young man is murdered by local Fascists. The victim’s brother, Khristo Stoianev, is recruited into the NKVD, the Soviet’s secret intelligence service. After training in Moscow, he’s sent to Spain to serve in its civil war. About to become a victim of Stalin’s purges, Khristo flees to Paris. But he soon learns that being a Russian spy is like being in prison. [I was reminded of the lyrics from a song about the Hotel California; “You can check out anytime you like, bu
The victim’s brother, Khristo Stoianev, is recruited into the NKVD, the Soviet’s secret intelligence service.
Khristo’s training group adopts a homeless dog.
It’s only a slight digression, however, as American businessmen are recruited and trained for clandestine operations in Europe.
Furst guides us through many European countries as we follow the wartime exploits of Khristo and his NKVD comrades.
But the ultimate theme of the story is the loyalty and esprit forged by the members of his group in the heat of combat as they struggle for survival in the holocaust of war.
I was disappointed by "Blood of Victory" by Alan Furst, but so many people told me to start at the beginning and go for the original that I gave this a try, and I'm glad I did.
It's insightful and panoramic yet fast-paced, a real vision of World War II era Europe from Bulgaria to Russia to Spain to Czechoslovakia that still has a compelling plot and well-drawn characters.
As many people point out, Furst also knows his background like no other writer.
Furst also plumbs the beginnings of the OSS and the CIA in Central Europe with real imagination and sympathy.
