https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3678651-bad-girls-don-t-die
What a coincidence that I read this ghost story during Mystery & Thriller Week on Goodreads, especially after having put it off for years.
And I know that if I hadn’t read this with a friend, I most likely would have left it open at a random page and never gone back to it.
I haven’t read a ghost story in a while, so I was looking forward to being spooked by this one.But the content did not, in fact, work for me.
What we don’t know is why this is all happening—what caused Alexis’ life to turn upside down and what the ghost (let’s stop beating around the bush, shall we?) wants.
Alender kept the balance just right for a reader like me.Alexis is a spunky teenager who loves photography that is having some family issues.
Along the way Alexis finds a new friend and a love interest she couldn't have seen coming, all the while trying to figure out the mystery behind Kasey's odd behavior.
She'll find out that it's bigger than anything she could have imagined.I loved how this was set in modern day because we have Alexis who doesn't believe in the supernatural and tries her hardest to come up with another reasonable explanation of why Kasey isn't herself anymore.
Only way to explain this book is UH-MAZING!
Except I don't have a sister possessed by a creepy dead girl doll ghost thing.
This book is so unlike all the other books with ghosts and what-not in them.
And Carter.
Carter is so AWESOME.
I'm trying to come up with a more insightful way to encompass my appreciation of this awesomeness, but I just can't concentrate.
I think my face might freeze this way.
Even though I may never look at dolls the same way again.
Glad I decided to collect stuffed animals and not dolls.So really- Hee!~Tori
But such a refreshing take of an age old haunting story.In the opening chapter Alexis is taking pictures of her old, huge house at 3 in the night.
Her eyes suddenly turn from blue to green; she starts using words like oughtn’t and possesses the strength unusual for a 12 year old.Alexis is a misfit in school, the girl with the pink hair, the one who is always at the sidelines.
Although it isn’t necessary to the story it doesn’t harm either.For a rebellious teen Alexis is likable and Kasey, in spite of being possessed by the ghost 90% of the time, is quite cute.
Our protagonist: WHAAAAH MY MOTHER WANTS TO HAVE A CAREER! WHAAAAH MY FATHER WANTS TO HAVE SOCIAL LIFE!WHAAAAH MY SISTER IS YOUNG AND WEIRD!WHAAAAH NO ONE UNDERSTANDS MY FAUX-LIBERAL AGENDA!WHAAAAH NO ONE UNDERSTANDS MY NEED TO REBEL!Rinse and repeat for 300+ pages. The only thing interesting about this story was the ghost aspect, but it really isn't strongly touched on until the last hundred and change pages. The way that the book wraps up is really weak and I don't know why this needs a sequel. If anything I'd like to read Sarah's story.
I've read a lot of books where I constantly check the page number I'm on and I'm like "Ugh, is the chapter over yet?" and I'm so bored.
Let's just say this doll is the only one who talks back to Kasey, and does a lot more than that.There was also Megan Wiley, the cheerleader who surprisingly has a big part in this book.
You'll find out some shocking things about her past.Along the way, we get to find out the history of the vengeful spirit in Alexis's house, and I loved reading all of the background stories.
Şimdi karakterler hakkında iki çift laf etmek istiyorum:-Alexis Warren, ana karakterimiz oluyor, çevresindekiler uymadığını ve hiçbir yere ait olmadığını düşünen bir kız.
Beni başlarda biraz sinir etti ama ilerleyen safhalarda kendisini çok sevdim.-Carter Blume, esas oğlanımız (aslına bakarsanız tek oğlan), mavi gözlü sarı saçlı çekici ve akıllı bir çocuk.
Nedenini tabi ki söylemeyeceğim ama kızı çok sevdim.-Kasey Warren, Alexis'in kız kardeşi ve evet, içine hayalet kaçan vatandaş bu.
Vıcık vıcık teen aşk üçgenleri ya da "ay çocuk çok seksi, tüm kızlar onun peşinde ama o beni tüm sıradanlığımla gördü, ben de onu yalayıp yutmak istiyorum" tarzında olaylar yok.
This book was creepy, and I was all about it!!
I've been in the mood to read something scary, and have recently red The Amityville Horror and The Haunting of Hill House, and neither of those ones creeped me out at all, however this YA horror that's been sitting on my shelf for years did the trick!
Alexis' sister Kaycee has started acting strange - she's become more irritable, violent, and has started lying to her family.
This book was fast paced, and kept me hooked from page one!
I'm looking forward to reading the second one!
and the girl on the cover, veiled mysteriously in a curtain, making her look like a demented bride or elaborate victorian doily, isn't doing the book any favors.
because it looks awful.does that make any sense at all?of course, then there is the plot, which, at its best, is like a rip-off of every teen flick, ghost flick, and ro-co flick out there.
There is just something about reading a story that makes it both better, and worse and this story, definitely had the creep factor, gave me goose bumps and had me looking over my shoulder while reading and I loved every minute of it!I don't want to go into too much detail btu if you are still looking for a great creepy read, this is the book for you.
It was way creepy than the first book I read by this author and definitely had me thinking about it for a few days after reading it but I still loved every minute of it.
Esas yorumum İngilizce versiyonunda. Okumayanı vururum :D Okuyun okutturun bebeğimi ♥ #ilkçevirisiniokutmayaçalışançevirmenmodeon
It was spooky, it had possession and a good vengeful spirit background.
I enjoyed there being a good, helpful spirit and also the fact that one of the cheerleaders ended up being the most knowledgeable about hauntings.
The reason I would give it 3.5 rather than 4 is I felt like it took a while to get there and that Alexis didn't really DEAL with it very efficiently.
Like, she knew her sister was possessed but still went back to the house alone, slept there and never warned her mum.
It felt like things that I guessed chapters before took her way too long to see.
Overall an enjoyable, spooky read.
The prose wasn't oh-my-god-where-have-you-been-my-whole-life perfect but it was so enthralling and fit so perfectly with the story being told I couldn't help but get sucked into the life of Alexis, a fifteen year old girl who has difficulty dealing with other people because, according to her, they're always trying so hard to be something they're not and they end up never sounding real.I could easily devote a whole essay on how much I liked Alexis - even though it took her eons to figure out something that I'd got from the get-go, but hey, she didn't get a blurb of her own life - and how different she was from most other YA main characters.
Still do.Ok. In all honesty this book creeped me out.I blame the hard raining/storm outside.I blame the fact that I was alone in the house while reading this.I blame myself for letting my imagination run wild.I read some creepy stuff about spiders in the book.The next morning I had to kill two huge as fuck spiders in my bathroom.I read some creepy shit about their air conditioning malfunctioning.The next day my boiler was malfunctioning, and I started to get paranoid.(The boiler has been malfunctioning for weeks before that actually, but this time when it didn’t heat up the house...
And the doll pointed at Kelsey and looked at me and said Your sister is crazy.”What I loved most about this quote was the randomness of it.
A little giggle to yourself looking crazed to the world through their eyes makes it so much more sweeter.Aside from that, outside of its original content, this passage may not seem so frightening, but it left me in chills…well until the part about your sister is crazy.
The mystery aspect and the road to uncovering it was wonderfully done and left no real questions behind.Overall: A great book to pick if you’re in the mood for creepy little dolls.
It's definitely a chilling read.
As expected, we have the outcast loner girl who somehow easily gets the hot guy.
Not only has this been overly done in YA already, the whole romance aspect in Bad Girls Don't Die didn't have a purpose in the book at all.
I could see younger teens -12, 13 years old - quite enjoying this.If you can get passed that and the awkward dialogue, the book is actually not bad; I did enjoy getting spooked.
Ghost stories are my weakness.
Try it if you want a quick and freaky read.
This book was alright.
It wasn't nearly the best book about paranormal activity, but for a book intended for younger teens it was okay.
Lexi is a girl that doesn't like cheerleaders or preps, yet she also doesn't fit in with the "Doom Squad" which are a group of kids she currently hangs out with who also hate cheerleaders or preps.
I liked Lexi.
This book has a little of everything in it too.
A little paranormal, a little mystery and suspense, and even a little romance.I thought the story flowed well with a smooth, fast pace that never got boring.
Un libro que se lee bastante rápido con una buena trama, algo que de verdad se agradece en estos tiempos. Tiene sus toques lúgubres y algunas descripciones que me pusieron la piel de gallina, aunque debo admitir que el toque romántico y juvenil no me gustó.El meollo principal se solucionó en un abrir y cerrar de ojos, todo lo demás para llegar a su desenlace estuvo muy bueno pero las ultimas hojas fueron terribles.Seguiré la saga porque los compré al mismo tiempo y porque la historia fue muy creativa, merece otra oportunidad.
Come play with us.I've been dabbling in "scary" novels for the past two months leading up to Halloween.
Her little sister Kasey starts acting strangely - going into Alexis's room in the middle of the night, being mean, stealing her classmates' genealogy reports for no apparent reason, etc.
I literally started wondering if my own little sister would open the door to my room and do the things Kasey did.
Just probably don't read it in the dark alone like I did.
Definitely recommended for a pre-Halloween read.
This book, in short, was kind of awful.
*4.5 stars*This was a great haunted house/possession novel! I liked how it didn't play into the typical YA trope of insta-love, instead focusing on female friendship, and the bonds between sisters, and mothers and daughters. I'm almost disappointed that there's a sequel, because this novel is really strong as a standalone ... but I'll reserve judgment until I read the next book.
Bu kitabı okumak çok iyi geldi gerçekten. Mükemmelden ziyade, okurken iyi vakit geçirten ve bir süre sonra unutulup gidecek kitaplardandı. Korku türünde bir kitabı ilk okuyuşumdu. Bununla başladığım iyi oldu doğrusu. Bunun gibi bir YA kitabında bile ürktüysem usta bir yazarın yazdığı romanda ne yapardım bilmiyorum. Korku filmleriyle de aram iyi değildir zaten, bu tür ile mesafemi korumayı düşünüyorum. Yazarın gerilim yapmaya çalıştığı yerler dışında okurken Supernatural ı hatırlattı. Bir ara Dean'ın bir yerlerden çıkmasını bekledim. Dean özlemimi pekiştirdi kitap resmen. <3 Ah burda olsaydı da hayaletin mezarını yaksaydı :D
Megan is sure Kasey is possessed, and as the weird evidence mounts, Alexis can no longer deny it.This book had just the right amount of creepy horror and YA fun.
Alexis is a great protagonist and narrator, mature in her political activism and independence yet insecure and hesitant in her personal life.
Kasey's unpredictability adds a lot to the scariness of the story, and the layers to the mystery gave it depth and allure.
Horror can never engross me like other stories can, but it came close.
One night, after a family argument leaves Kasey in tears, Alexis comes to the rescue in the role of comforting big sister.
Since it is for her baby sister, the story revolves around a little girl and her doll, Kasey's favorite topic.
When mysterious lights appear in the middle of the night, doors close themselves, and the air conditioner goes haywire to the point where Alexis can see her breath in the house, she knows it is no overactive imagination.
She has no idea what exactly is going on, but something weird is happening in their house, and much as she hates to admit it, Kasey has something to do with it.
From the front cover of this book, to the last chapter, Alender had me hooked.
When she notices Kasey's eyes turning from their usual blue to bright green, Alexis gets seriously scared.Alender does a great job of ratcheting up the fear factor in the book, without resorting to cliched scare tactics.
As Alexis teams up, reluctantly, with the head cheerleader at her school, in an effort to help Kasey, the book takes turns which are even more sinister.
I cannot wait for the next book, although I'm wondering how Alender can top this one.
Bé, dai, pensavo peggio.
Invece è una “ciofeca” di tipo classico:1) c’è il solito spirito incazzato come una biscia, che vorrebbe vendicarsi dei discendenti di coloro che gli hanno fatto del male (e non ha neanche tutti i torti, perché di sicuro non si potrebbe candidarli al Premio Nobel per la Pace);2) c’è la solita anima candida e sensibile alle atmosfere, che diventa facile preda degli struggimenti di quella creatura antica che vagola per la casa;3) e c’è il solito, improbabile eroe, che pensava di essere una schiappa, invece è un cuore impavido.Io, ovviamente, sono fuori target per un romanzo del genere, però mi chiedo: davvero un odierno adolescente si lascia prendere da questi improbabili accadimenti?
Scary dolls are even scarier than scary clowns.
When BGDD really gets going, it *really* goes there, and I loved every minute of it.
I agree with the reviews that say they wanted to read more about all the characters, and so I am v.
excited to hear that BGDD is now a trilogy!
Yay for good book mitosis!
Because this is a good book; the writing is funny and real, the story unfolds to epic proportions, and the MC is a likeably grouchy departure from our usual YA heroine.
I can see why this book is getting so much buzz, and it's well deserved.
çok. gerildim. çok gerildim.ya böyle kitapları okurken istemsizce arada odayı kontrol ediyorum. resmen ödüm koptu kitabı okurken. alexis carter ve megan baya sevdiğim karakterler oldu. ayrıca yazar açıklayana kadar olaylar gizemini korudu, ki ben genelde böyle kitaplarda sonunu okurken tahmin ederim bu kitapta tahmin edemedim. ama gerilme kısmı beni sinir etti, rahatsız edici bi hisle okudum kitabı bu yüzden 4/5
Holy shit that was so creepy and I hate creepy things but absolutely loved this book! Giving it 4 stars because I don't think I will be sleeping for a few days now.
2.5 puan15 yaşındaki çocukların uğraştıkları şeylere bak.Oturun dersinize çalışın bakayım.
