https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74616.Walking_Across_Egypt
This is my second Clyde Edgerton book and another fun experience full of quirky Southern characters, but not too much so, and situations that have you alternately chuckling and shaking your head.
Here we see Mattie in the early morning.She walked into the kitchen, turned on the light and  saw through the window that the eastern sky was dark red.
She also liked it when it was cold and she  could stand there taking in the cold morning while the sky was red, and time stopped, stood still, and rested for a  minute.
Such a wonderful little southern tale of good graces, changing times, senior sensibilities, do-gooder-hypocrites, nosy neighbors, kindly generosities, hearth and home hospitality, and redeeming graces.
Clyde Edgerton has brilliantly captured the essence of small town southern life during the 70's in this sparse little novel.
Told primarily through the voice of Mattie - a feisty, god-fearing, septuagenarian - this is a storytellers delight.
Her body and mind are slowing, giving her fits on occasion.
But it's better to lose a few marbles through kindness and generosity, than to clutch a full bag in bitterness, prejudice, and fear.
Walking Across Egypt restores your faith in mankind.
A sixteen-year old boy lives at a juvenile detention home and through his uncle, the local dogcatcher, he meets a senior citizen he comes to call Grandma.
He escapes the detention home and comes to live with Grandma and they develop a grandma and grandson relationship.
He’s captured and returned to the detention home to ruthless guards and another boy who’s out the kill him.
Though the outcome is predictable, Walking Across Egypt is a book you’ll want to read because it restores your faith in humanity.
Especially since I listened to the audio book on a very long car ride.
But most importantly, there was Mattie Rigsbee who would feed anyone who came by with her table full of wonderful food.
She believed in helping where she could, even in small ways, especially "doing unto the least of these my brethren".
As with any Clyde Edgerton book, there's a lot of humor in the telling.I'm not a fan of audio books, but this was a good choice for a car ride that was 5 hours each way.
I heard Clyde Edgeron speak at a writer's conference in 1999...he read the opening scene of Walking Across Egypt, told some stories, shared writing tips...one of the funniest guys I've ever heard.
LOVE his writing style, the lazy meanderings of southern conversations, back and forth and around each other.
Walking Across Egypt is the kind of story that reminds you of your grandma and all the things she taught you, right down to how you might want to keep your granny's button collection because your own grandkids might want them one day.
Mine is in the linen closet waiting for that day.
All My Children, a television soap opera that aired on ABC for 41 years, from January 5, 1970 to September 23, 2011, makes it into Walking Across Egypt as a minor character.
I have never watched All My Children or any other soap opera but I do know what makes a soap opera and have read a few books that I think would qualify.
I guess so.But I did watch The Andy Griffith Show so I know that seventy-eight year old Mattie Rigsbee must be related to Aunt Bee. They are both too cute, way too cute.
"Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." Matthew 25:40 is Mattie Rigsby's favorite Bible passage and she takes it to heart.She befriends the Juvenile delinquent nephew of her new friend, the dog catcher.
She and young Wesley form a bond and she realizes that Wesley needs a Grandma...
Wesley needs her.Mattie loves to make big meals and serves them to her family, friends, neighbors and just about any passerby.
By the end of the story, she realizes that not only does Wesley need her to be his Grandma but she needs Wesley to be her grandson.
I really liked this book, but I didn't love it. The main character is Mattie, a woman who thinks she's "slowing down", and despite her prejudices and some totally irrational habits, she sincerely believes that she can affect her community for the better, one meal at a time. She's very human, and her naivite as well as her hypocrisy is enlightening.Reading this reminded me of a lot of people I know, a lot of faults which I have, and the humor and good grace that gets me through it all.
I've had this book for decades, tried several times to read it, but couldn't get interested. After reading an article about Clyde Edgerton in this morning's paper, I started it again, loved it, and read half the book this afternoon.* * * * *I must not have opened the book when I took it on vacations in the past. This is a wonderful little book, very sweet and heartwarming, exciting and funny. I want to go live with Miss Mattie and eat her country cooking!
This book contains my favorite description ever. I won't give it away, but the scene has to do with dirty dishes, a soap opera, and chair seats being recovered.
A heart warming southern tale of an elderly woman still living on her own but "slowing down"!-sugary as sweet tea!
I deducted a star for a gratuitous use of the N-word during a baseball reference.
It also had a lot of religious references that got tiring after a while.
I did love Mattie and the cast of characters with all of their faults.
I’m not religious but we could use more Christians in the world like Mattie who truly believed helping folks was the only way to be.
Anyway, a fast funny read with a cast of characters that will stick with you and make you think a little about yourself and what would you do?
4 stars.
Best reads pile.
I wish there was a rating of 3.5 so I could give it to this book.
Clyde Edgergton write books with a charm. Always entertaining. Southern but you don't need to be from the South to enjoy.I recommend this book as a positive experience on a gray day.
This may be my favorite book of all times!
I am in love with the main character Maddie.
This book was written in 1987, before we routinely used cell phones, computers and digital cameras.
Still, it doesn't seem dated because of the character of this woman.
This book has been lauded over the years, and the author, Clyde Edgerton, wrote 8 more books after this one.Maybe he is still writing and I hope he is.
I hope to see Maddie again in another later novel.
I wish there were more books being written today like this one.
Let's just say it's doubtful that a good church-going septuagenarian would invade a bathroom inhabited by a young naked male no matter how many pencils he stole.The plot further descends into complete farce two more times; once when the juvenile delinquent tries to escape by donning a choir robe and hiding in the choir (which a police officer does as well, though it makes NO sense whatsoever) and a second time a page or two from the end when the main character goes into a nonsensical rant that went right off the deep end.
I was offered this book by a friend, Mandee Strong.
A look a the slow, Christian life of a 78-year-old woman who tries to do her best and loves to cook.Overall, I'm at the stage of life where I look forward to being a 78-year-old lady with nobody to tend to except myself, So this story made me excited to grow old.Notes:*For deodorant she uses baking soda and water.*She stresses if she hasn't done her dishes right away and dares to watch a soap opera before doing them.
She doesn't want any of her friends to know about either habit, lest they tell everybody.
This was one of those "grab it off the shelf" things that happened serendipitously at the library when I was walking down an aisle sideways, hoping a title would pop out. I didn't need another book on my nightstand--I already had a stack, but when I read the dust jacket I knew it would be a fun read. I loved it! How a male author can nail the voice of an elderly lady so well, I have no idea, but it was perfect. Now I'm off to find his other books. I love discovering a new author I love!
"What if everybody did good unto the least of these?"What a sweet, sweet story -- and funny to boot. I laughed out loud several times.I think Maddie should name the dog Egypt. Rating 4.5
Meh.
She calls the dogcatcher.In spite of all the slowing down, Mattie still manages to cut her own grass, stay involved in church activities, cook up a storm for anyone and every occasion, get herself stuck in a bottomless chair, and harbor a juvenile who has escaped from the prison down the road.On the surface, this book had everything I love: a scene set in a rural town where everyone knows everyone else and everyone's business and then spreads it around with a few add-ons to make it more interesting; a spunky senior citizen, quirky but for the most part, well-meaning characters, and unlikely but funny situations.
It put me in mind of ‘The Waltons’, though it is doubtful whether the Waltons would have dared crack quite so many jokes about sperm.The pace and tone of the novel is gentle, and I suspect it would work quite well as a theatre production as there are very few scene changes, and characters (like the annoying but amusing neighbours) popping in and out to deliver their lines.
My inner agnostic railed against the religious overtones, and whilst it would be lovely to think we could really change the world for the better with a slice of pound cake and a dollop of the gospels, I suspect it’s not feasible.
Sweet Jesus, I'm gonna get all southern over this book!
The realtionship between an older woman taking in a juvenile deliquent is so funny, and heartwarming.
It's refreshing to have a novel feature Chritian people but not show them as petty, annoying peope who get in your face and on your nerves.
Mattie, the older woman, is an example as a woman who follows the bible and it very likable.
I like that its a short book, but it has a few characters that can carry the novel on their own and make you care about their lives.

I liked the main character, Mattie.
She's what I want to be in my old age.
I have to admit that I got a little tiny bit panicked, seeing the (small) number of pages left and not knowing if the author was going to give Mattie a stroke or have her tossed in a nursing home since she's getting rid of so much stuff for the yard sale...but the ending instead opened up the possibilities, that she went into a life-altering choice with her eyes wide open to some of the difficulties and still chose the hard-but-right way.
I have been listening to this book on CD while driving and at times, it becomes frustrating.
The narrator uses the same basic voice for all the male characters and the same basic voice for all the female characters.
It becomes monotonous and the male characters sound angry, gruff, and like they are heavy drinkers from the south.
The female characters all sound like 85-year old blue-hairs, which many of them are, but they all sound the same.
It is a huge drawback to the sweet story of the book.
The story is sweet and simple and a little slow, but enjoyable.
This book contains mild language.

This is a story of an older woman, getting on in years but still able to live independantly. One day she has an unfortunate incident with one of her favorite chairs which leaves her stuck in a rather awkward position. While waiting for a repair man to come to her rescue, she recalls a sermon given recently at her church. It was concerning "the least of these" type of people. This is a heart warming tale about standing up for what you belive and caring for others. I really enjoyed it.
I've been really disappointed in the last few books I read, so it was a joy to finally find one that hits the spot. I picked it up because of it's title and laughed my way all the way through to the end. One review on the back cover calls it "rollicking" which is a word you don't see so often anymore, but sums it up nicely. Don't expect a book about Egypt. Its set in a small southern town, and is based around the life of an elderly widow. This is a book I will read again, often!
A good friend of mine loaned this book to me for an airplane trip from Minneapolis to Chicago. It's light, and funny, and the characters are totally believeable. Walking Across Egypt is about this 78-year-old church-going southern lady who is trying to sort out what it means to do something "for the least of these." It's written by someone who obviously gets southern culture from the inside out, and it is pretty darn charming.
