https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/272545.The_Outbreak_of_the_Peloponnesian_War
I friggin loved this quartet of books. Took about a year to read all four. I actually was quite annoyed that two of his sources were written ONLY in German -- I mean literally, there are NO translations. I contacted Prof. Kagan and he told me "It took me 30 years to write the books. I'm sure you can learn German in less time." Hilarious.
I'm revisiting Donald Kagan's 4-volume history of the Peloponnesian War this year.
A primary source for the war is, of course, Thucydides, who stated one of his reasons for writing his history was to show how events or situations tend to repeat themselves.
And Kagan is able to brilliantly make clear those ancient political and military circumstances by illustrating similar ones from modern history.
It seems an extravagance to say that history can excite.
But Kagan's history of the Peloponnesian War is exciting as well as being an indispensible work on the subject.
This is the first volume of Kagan's four volume history of the Peloponnesian War. In this series, Kagan paints the most complete picture possible of the long war by starting with Thucydides and Herodotus and others and then expanding on the basis of any other available sources.
This fills in lots of detail for those who want more context to the story as told by Thucydides.
Thucydides set the standard for most of the history that came afterwards and this series is a good way to come to appreciate it.
It's hardly surprising bcs anyway hermeneutics is just fundamental in humanities studies.As he concludes, if for solid historical truth, Thucydides' "truest cause" of PW should not be the one readers of progeny looking for.
(This is my favorite part!) This book is not trying to accuse Thucydides being deceiving or his writing being untrue but actually admiring his way of dealing history and pointed out why he did that and how in fact modern readers should approach him:
hard to follow at some times, but a very concise account of the reason of the war, looking at not only the War of 431, but also the first Peloponnesian war
Fascinating, but challenging if you have little knowledge of ancient Greece
Great scholarship!
Good read. Excellent assessment of Thucydides' argument about the inevitability of the Peloponnesian War. Great assessment of the manner in which states wield power.
Not always the lightest of reads but a thorough exploration of the Peloponnesian War that wreaked havoc on the Greek world of the time.9/10
It's not very detailed as I expected and the book lacks in many significant points!
A good read to uncover the seeds of conflict that can be, and usually, are lost to contemporaries and historians alike
