https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20309175-my-true-love-gave-to-me

If you'd asked me beforehand to name a list of YA authors that I'd like to appear in a short story collection, many of the ones here would have made that list: Stephanie Perkins, Laini Taylor, Holly Black, Gayle Forman, David Levithan and maybe Rainbow Rowell (I like but don't love her books).
And it is a pleasingly diverse set of stories, filled with people of all races, ethnicities, religions and sexualities *thumbs up*Personally, I think this book starts and ends with the two best stories, from Rainbow Rowell and Laini Taylor respectively.
OKAY, LET'S ENJOY THE BEAUTY OF THIS COVER *time to enjoy*people who haven't read Daughter of Smoke and Bone series by Laini Taylor probably won't know the mentioned characters down belowSo about a month ago Stephanie tweeted thisYAAAAAAAAAAY So obviously when I saw the cover and the couples I started searching for Zuzana and Mik... but then I stumbled upon thisWait, is that..? No, it can't be.. Can it?But it's THEM. IT'S ZIRI AND LIRAZ IT'S  LUCKY ZIRI  AND  BADASS LIRAZ . IT HAS TO BE.And now
OKAY, LET'S ENJOY THE BEAUTY OF THIS COVER *time to enjoy*people who haven't read Daughter of Smoke and Bone series by Laini Taylor probably won't know the mentioned characters down belowSo about a month ago Stephanie tweeted thisYAAAAAAAAAAY So obviously when I saw the cover and the couples I started searching for Zuzana and Mik...
but then I stumbled upon thisWait, is that..?
IT'S ZIRI AND LIRAZ IT'S 
LUCKY ZIRI
BADASS LIRAZ
. IT HAS TO BE.And now all we can do is wait...
*emotion twirling*● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●EDIT: 30.8.2014.Sadly I was wrong.
FINALLY DONE THIS BABY.My individual ratings:Midnights by Rainbow Rowell: 5/5The Lady and the Fox by Kelly Link: 1/5 (couldn't even finish it)Angels in the Snow by Matt de la Pena: 4.5/5Polaris is Where You'll Find Me by Jenny Han: 4/5It's a Yuletide Miracle, Charlie Brown by Stephanie Perkins: 5/5Your Temporary Santa by David Levithan: 3/5Krampuslauf by Holly Black: 2/5What the Hell Have You Done, Sophie Roth?
by Gayle Forman: 5/5Beer Buckets and Baby Jesus by Myra McEntire: 3/5Welcome to Christmas, CA by Kiersten White: 5/5Star of Bethlehem by Ally Carter: 4/5The Girl Who Woke the Dreamer by Laini Taylor 1/5 (I just couldn't do it.
Rainbow is the main reason I wanted to read this book."The Lady and the Fox" by Kelly Link: 4 starsI really liked this story!
It was intriguing and beautiful, but it also was a little confusing..."Angels in the Snow" by Matt de la Peña: 3.5 starsThis was cute and a little sad, there was a part when I wanted to cry."Polaris is where you'll find me" by Jenny Han: 4.5 starsI loved this one!
I WANT MORE."Your Temporary Santa" by David Levithan: 3.5 starsAnother cute story, I really liked how the main character cared for his boyfriend!
They need to have hope that they can get there again in the future.”3,6/5 stars (average rating of all 12 short stories)So while Laini Taylor's short story was stunningly beautiful and magical, there were others that really surprised me as well.I've never read anything by Matt de la Pena and I must say I really loved  Angels in the Snow.
Same thing applies to  Welcome to Christmas, CA  by Kiersten White.Of course, as always, it was a pleasure to read something new by Rainbow Rowell once again.I expected more of David Levithan, was kind of weirded out by  Krampuslauf  by Holly Black, and Kelly Link couldn't satisfy me at all.To say the least, it was a nice collection of stories by awesome authors, but I still prefer whole novels to short stories.Find more of my books on Instagram
I really enjoyed this book overall!
I felt so bad for Shy...*****Polaris is Where You'll Find Me by Jenny Han: 5/5 Wish this one would have been longer!***** It's a Yuletide Miracle, Charlie Brown by Stephanie Perkins: 5/5 MY FAVORITE OF THE BOOK!
Loved the characters, the setting, EVERYTHING.
Can I have this full book now Stephanie Perkins???***Your Temporary Santa by David Levithan: 3/5 It was okay.
Enjoyed some of the pranks!*****Welcome to Christmas, CA by Kiersten White: 5/5  LOVED this.
Did this story really belong in this book?
loved the first couple of stories but became bit to similar for me! BUT i will re try this christmas again!
April 30, 2014 When I first saw this:Whenever I think about it:
*I'll update with individual ratings for each of the stories tomorrow*
*3.75 stars*I'm going to try to read a short story a week for 12 weeks, I will update this review everytime I read a new one.If you want me to read a specific short story in this collection please ask me in the comments, if not I will continue to choose them randomly.week 1 -  What The Hell Have You Done, Sophie Roth?  by  Gayle Forman .I've never read a book by Gayle Forman before (what a shame, I know)! This was a great way to start this collection. I really liked the writing style (even thoug
I really liked the writing style (even though I felt it wasn't anything special it was still enjoyable) and the characters, Sophie and Russell.
It was a beautiful cozy and fuzzy and fluffy contemporary short story!Rating: ★★★★☆ 4 stars.week 2 - 
Also I had never read something by this authour before and the writing style was really enjoyable.Rating: ★★★☆☆ 3.5 stars.week 6 - 
Well, now I'm sad because I really wanted to read something by Laini Taylor but I'm not a big fan of her writing style, at least for this short story.Rating: ★★☆☆☆ 1.5 star.week 10+11 - 
I've read a story from this anthology every night up to Christmas Eve!
Night Nine.) "Welcome to Christmas, CA" by Kiersten White: Five Stars ★★★★★This is the epitome of what a holiday story should be.
It had everything you'd look for in a good holiday tale; it was heartwarming, emotional, had a happy ending, wonderfully written, and was filled with magic.
Even with a happy ending, this story didn't make me feel good, it didn't fill me with holiday cheer, it really didn't do anything for me.
Little did I know, this story was very far from a Christmas read!
It was hard to follow and just straight up weird, but I also LOVED some of the elements like the snow and the manor and the guy's magical-ness?
Angels in the Snow by Matt de la Pena: 4.5 stars - Two cute, well-rounded characters and a fully developed plot that I actually cared about.
Polaris is Where You'll Find Me by Jenny Han: 5 stars - Aaahhh I would totally read an entire book of this story!!!
Your Temporary Santa by David Levithan: 2.5 stars - Weak characters, kind of depressing...7.
I skimmed a good part of it because I couldn't stand any of the characters or the plot.
3.6 stars(according to my calculations)My True Love Gave to Me is a super cutesy, mostly contemporary holiday inspired anthology. I don’t usually like anthology collections but somehow I liked this. All of the stories were great, some were better than others, but none were terrible. This book is pretty famous in the book community, and for a good reason, it’s a classic holiday read that I suggest to anyone looking to get into the holiday spirit. ❄Midnights – Rainbow Rowell – 4 stars❄I love Rainb
3.6 stars(according to my calculations)My True Love Gave to Me is a super cutesy, mostly contemporary holiday inspired anthology.
❄️Midnights – Rainbow Rowell – 4 stars❄️I love Rainbow Rowell, and as much as I hate on romance and the friends to lovers trope, I still think this story was super cute.
I feel like I would have enjoyed this more if it were closer to the beginning of the book because after 11 stories I was sick of following the same theme over and over again but other than that this was great.
Ratings:1.
Midnight by Rainbow Rowell: 4/52.
The Lady and the Fox by Kelly Link: 3/53.
Angels in the Snow by Matt De La Pena: 1/54.
Welcome to Christmas, CA by Kiersten White: 3.5/511.
The Girl Who Woke the Dreamer by Laini Taylor: DNF (1/5)AVERAGE RATING: 2.7 STARSI'm really 
in this collection of short stories.
one or two short stories
I expected much more from these great selection of authors.
I also expected to feel all giddy and happy after reading these Christmas stories but that didn't really happen either.One thing I did enjoy was the diversity among the characters.
Isn’t just fantastic when your computer shuts down and you lose your entire review???? Yeah, same. I seem to never get tired of this book, some of these stories I LOVE and some were poop but all in all it’s a great anthology.  Midnights:  by Rainbow Rowell - I absolutely adored this one, all three times I’ve read it. It’s really one of the perfect ones to start the anthology off with bc it’s short and cute and gahhhh - It’s written by Rainbow Rowell, so it’s like an automatic fav- I loved how it
Polaris is Where You’ll Find Me by Jenny Han-	I feel like Jenny Han’s writing just doesn’t appeal to me-	Idk if this is just me, but her characters act so juvenile for their age theyre just throwing tantrums all the time errghghghgh-	I think I would have liked it if we got to see more of Lars rather than whats-his-name-irrelevant-flynn-	Interesting concept tho, it’s pretty cool, probably something every kid has dreamed of-	Just didn’t work for maymay-	2 stars!!
Easy and descriptive writing style, Matt could find a way to get to the readers' hearts!3,5/5* Polaris is Where You'll Find Me by Jenny Han: This is pretty nice, but to be honest it didn't leave a strong impression on me as I'm not really a Jenny Han's fan (please don't bite my head off people :P )4,5/5* It's a Yuletide Miracle, Charlie Brown by Stephanie Perkins: This story was my 3nd favorite in the whole book as it left me in awe.
I loved this one the most of all as the two main characters are way too SWEET and there was food!
My favorites were the ones that really went all out with the holiday cheer, drowning us in snowmen and peppermint latte goodness, like “Polaris Is Where You’ll Find Me” by Jenny Han where the main character Natalie is the daughter of Santa Claus (I just love the sweetness of Jenny Han stories, and this was such a North Pole treat), and Stephanie Perkins’ “It’s A Yuletide Miracle, Charlie Brown” which takes place on a Christmas tree lot.
Ally Carter’s story was so sad and hopeful at the same time.
Sadly I couldn't enjoy the stories, most of them were extremely boring and to be honest I only enjoyed 3 of 12 stories and it's sad but I couldn't feel any winter, less Christmas time? It was so "yeah, ok, cool" so it's a no from me.
Reread  and buddy read #3 with the my favourite and the most fabulous Bicycle in the world Give me the cheese, give me ALL the cheese!!!This is my second time reading the adorable twelve story anthology and I really did love it (even if some of the stories lacked.Let’s run through them quickly:  Midnights:  5/5 - It’s written by Rainbow Rowell, so I’m already trash- It’s fricken adorable- I loved it then, I loved it now  The Lady and the Fox  1/5 - Goodness this one was  looooooooong - Hella b
Kay, that’s about a summary of all my thoughts and feelings for this cute collection, I need more of these cute-puke-inducing things!!!
I WILL BE UPDATING THIS REVIEW WITH RATINGS FOR EACH SHORT STORY AS I READ IT.
"Midnights" by Rainbow Rowell Rating: ★★★★★Short, sweet, and super adorable!
It was a really good way to establish the history between these characters in such a short story.
Really, really liked it, but then again this is Rainbow Rowell so I'm not too surprised.
"Polaris is Where You'll Find Me" by Jenny Han Rating: ★★Way too short and open-ended.
I know that it's a short story, but I still didn't connect with any of the characters and it just felt rather pointless to be honest.
Surprise surprise, my favourites were Laini Taylor, Holly Black, Kelly Link (all magic), Stephanie Perkins and Gayle Forman. Mini-review here.
Actual Rating:#1: Midnights by Rainbow Rowell - 3⭐ This was a cute story, nothing special but I definitely enjoyed it!#2: The Lady and the Fox by Kelly Link - 1 ⭐ I only read a few pages of this story but I just can’t get myself to even read another page of it.
I don’t really understand what’s going on and I don’t like the writing style.#3: Angels in the Snow by Matt de la Peña - 4⭐This was such a cute and quick read.
I really enjoyed it!
#4: Polaris Is Where You'll Find Me by Jenny Han - 2.5⭐I
Actual Rating:#1: Midnights by Rainbow Rowell - 3⭐️ This was a cute story, nothing special but I definitely enjoyed it!#2: The Lady and the Fox by Kelly Link - 1 ⭐️ I only read a few pages of this story but I just can’t get myself to even read another page of it.
I don’t really understand what’s going on and I don’t like the writing style.#3: Angels in the Snow by Matt de la Peña - 4⭐️This was such a cute and quick read.
I did not want this story to end, it was only 30 pages and I was so invested in the story and loved the characters, this was by far my favourite part of the book!The Lady and the Fox - Kelly Link : 2/5 - This was not a good follow up to the first story, I was really quite disappointed in this one.
I wish there was a bit more connection between the characters but overall I thought it was super cute and fun to read.
Midnights ~ Rainbow Rowell ~ 5/5I wasn't sure I would like this story as it only takes place on New Years Eve from 2011 - 2014.
But every New's Years Eve from there on she wants to be the one to kiss Noel but he's always kissing another girl....
3. Angels In The Snow ~ Matte de la pena ~ 5/5This is a sweet story about a boy named Shy who is watching his bosses apartment for Christmas.
They find a little magic together as well and the ending is sweet with Maria's dreams coming true.
As soon as it turned 1st December, I put up the Christmas tree, bought a festive mug (for festive hot chocolate, obviously) and got stuck in to My True Love Gave to Me.I loved the collection as a whole, even if I didn't enjoy every story equally (because that rarely happens with me and short story anthologies), but here's a little bit about a few of my favourites: I am guilty of following the crowd because the stories by Rainbow Rowell – about the brewing relationship between two friends over four New Year's Eves – and Stephanie Perkins' – about a girl who's building the courage to ask the boy with a beautiful voice for help (buying a Christmas tree from his family in the process!) – were my favourites.
My favorite stories were, Rainbow Rowell's, Matt De La Peña's, Stephanie Perkins', Kiersten White's and Laini Taylor's!
What I mean is, almost ALL of the stories in this book follow a very predictable pattern – contemporary, Christmas/New Year, someone’s parent is dead/sick/emotionally unavailable, meeting of someone cute, and voila LOVE!
I would buy this collection just for this story.Some other writers at least tried to do something different – Rainbow Rowell (“Midnights”) played with the structure, moving in time from one New Year celebration to another, from past into future.
Which is the best thing about this collection – it was easy to read and I wasn’t tempted to skim and skip.
My True Love Gave To Me is a collection of 12 stories covering multiple holidays such as New Year's, Hanukkah, the Winter Solstices and of obviously Christmas.
There were some stories I loved like Krampuslauf, Its A Yuletide Miracle, Charlie Brown, Angels In The Snow and the very last story The Girl Who Woke The Dreamer by Laini Taylor.
I couldn't get that story out of my head as I read the rest of the collection, so I reread it after finishing the book and realised I was completely in love with that story.
I loved all the cute stories, and I loved how they got me in the mood for Christmas.
Then came Ally Carter's story and that's when things started falling apart.
I stand by my first impression: That they are cute and get you in the mood for Christmas.
But the thing is that most of these stories are shallow.
It seems like Stephanie Perkins asked for everyone to write a romance story with a happy ending, because apparently that's all people want to read for Christmas?
Nevertheless, this was definitely CUTE, and my frustrations aside it did get me in the mood for Christmas.
