https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/771507.Loving
The plot consists of a long dialogue between different characters staying at a big mansion in Ireland during World War Two, and they talk, and talk and talk.
The stories shift and change, and quite often, two people talk to each other about different things, much to the delight of the reader, who can catch up on two threads simultaneously.""Sounds confusing!""But it's not.
It is just adorable to be part of the gossip, to live among them and to listen behind the door, smiling at the turns the same old story takes depending on who tells it to whom.""What was the best thing about it?""I couldn't tell, I read it during one long sitting, taking in the dialogues without break.
as the song asks, who wrote the book of love? was it a person who emphasizes the mundanity of experience, the pettiness of people, the tedium of life? is this book of love composed mainly of dialogue - the sort of flat, unremarkable dialogue that one tends to tune out while working, waiting in line, on the bus, at the bank, wherever? is love as magical and life-altering as changing the sheets or clearing the dining room table? is life just predictable, humdrum repetition? I've read comparisons o
is this book of love composed mainly of dialogue - the sort of flat, unremarkable dialogue that one tends to tune out while working, waiting in line, on the bus, at the bank, wherever?
every single person in the world has an interior life that is more interesting than the way they would look in a snapshot doing some tedious chore.
misunderstandings leading to frayed feelings and the inability of certain people to read a room are an unamusing but regular part of life; in Loving, they were my primary source of amusement.
Loving is set in a rambling country house in Ireland during the early years of the Second World War. The Tennant family move between their Irish country seat and their homes in England (primarily London).
Green spent the whole war working for the London Fire Brigade and will have seen the height of the blitz and been very much in the centre of some difficult service.
Perhaps, like Blake he was looking for a contrast to the “dark satanic mills” of the modern world; but Green insisted on populating it with real and recognisable people.The ending I found difficult and without the obvious fairytale links it would have been trite.
”They were wheeling wheeling in each other’s arms heedless at the far end where they had drawn up one of the white blinds. Above from a rather low ceiling five great chandeliers swept one after the other almost to the waxed parquet floor reflecting in their hundred thousand drops the single sparkle of distant day, again and again red velvet paneled walls, and two girls, minute in purple, dancing multiplied to eternity in these trembling pears of glass.” The serving staff was fortunate to be empl
Traditionally, in the Tennant household, he has been referred to as Arthur simply because the first young man employed in that position was named Arthur.
The household is left to their own devices most of the time as the Tennant family moves between their London home and the Irish countryside.
(They are the two girls that are dancing under the chandeliers.) Henry Green has several scenes where the two maids are more intimate than just good friends, but maybe I am reading those passages with modern eyes.Charley though is always after affection from both girls, ”Here, Give us a kiss.” when an opportune moment presents himself.
Two different Alberts, a Charley who used to be known as Arthur and who is now trying at being a Mr. Raunce?
I think this novel is interesting as a literary oddity and I particularly enjoyed the dialogue, but I also found it a royal pain to read.
Or, maybe I'm thick.This was the second Henry Green novel I've read and I'm glad it wasn't my first, being a bit too obtuse for my liking.
That one also required close (almost investigative) reading, but I got a bigger payoff from it.
Will try Caught next.
Green has been called “a writer’s writer’s writer” and praised to kingdom come by everyone that counts.
Strange too, his habit of this-ing and that-ing everyone after he’s introduced them by name into a scene, so that Edith (for example) walks into a room and we are told that “this woman [Edith] then stepped quickly aside” (not a real quote, but gives you the idea).
In its tightly drawn scenes and play of voices, ‘Loving’ has a way of flickering warmly through the mind after you set it aside.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : 2012
The one Irish employee, a stable hand, speaks with such a dreadful accent (according to the British), that no one can understand his utterances.I say the “dark side” as no one comes across as admirable in this depiction of the cross-section of this manor house, but on the other hand, there are no real villains either, Just a lot of bumbling self-seeking characters all of whom are living under some tension.
World War II will change everything, it’s becoming expensive to maintain this “old place” (suggested by big sections of the castle that are closed off), Charley and Edith’s running off at the end is a recognition that the life of servants is over; the novel opens with the foreshadowing death of the old butler whose place Charley is taking – temporarily.
The servants are left alone with their employers’ children, and thus free, they fight, love, ally, steal and work.Green is a master at painting beautiful pastoral settings and then focusing on the myriad, nagging daily stresses of the people living in them - both in this novel, and in my personal favorite of his novels, Concluding.
While the servants at the Tennants’ manor are removed from the horrible war and mostly left alone to do their chores and mind their own affairs, every character in Loving is plagued by innumerable stresses.
“There were masters and servants, servants and dogs they taught you how to touch your cap.” The Clash – Something about England.There were also peacocks – those silly birds.The masters keep intriguing and the servants have their own intrigues.And while the masters remain ignorant of their servants’ mysteries the servants know all of their masters’ secrets. And their seemingly uncouth conversations are full of hearsay, gossips, scandalmongering… and of love. And while the masters have their dramas the servants have theirs… Every individual has a right to have one’s own personal drama.
It took me a while to adjust to the cadence of Loving. The novel is about the daily lives of servants in a large "castle" in Ireland during WWII. It is all dialogue with gossip, scandal, alliances and coupling. Everything is on the surface with flitting dark undertones. The novel moves easily from conversation to conversation - with no inner thoughts, no character history, no plot, no conclusion. The reader has to fill in blanks. I found myself intrigued and involved. Liking this novel, more and more, as it progressed - but not quite loving it.
This is a must-read and I owe it to that great James Wood for pointing me to it (in a lecture and an essay [In The Irresponsible Self...]).
It might have been worth it just for the presence of a Vardamon-like character who is never reported communicating in words but can be understood through the one character who is bilingual in both dialect and Queen's English.
It's bizarre and makes you wonder how one can be so crafty writing in a kind of omniscient (or pseudo-omniscient) third in which even the narrator has limits of comprehension.
I'd never heard of Henry Green or this novel until I ran across it on the list of the top 100 novels in English of the 20th century as chosen by the Modern Library's editorial board.
It's a story about English people living in a mansion in Ireland during World War II.
It is only 200 pages, but it took me forever to read.
I do believe that you have to be in the mood for books, and often when I really enjoy one, I think it's because it happened along at the right time.
Your timing must be off, Mr. Green.
I have never taken so long to finish such a short book. I blame myself for not appreciating the humor, dialogue, or story. During the three months it took for me to finish this 200 page book, I never grew to know, like or care about the characters. If you are looking to experience what it is like as a servant in war time Ireland watch Downton Abby.All and all, not Loving it.
The questions span from “Am I simply the wrong reader for this book?” to “Do I have too many kids and soccer games going on to thoughtfully assess this book?” to “Did these critics have too many damn kids and activities to decently evaluate the book?”Elizabeth Bowen said that Henry Green’s novels “reproduce, as few English novels do, the actual sensations of living.”W.H. Auden called him the finest living English novelist.Francine Prose put Loving on her list of “Books to Be Read Immediately.”John Updike praises Green for “this surrender of self, this submersion of opinions and personality in the intensity of witnessing ‘life itself.’”It’s this consistent emphasis on “reproduction” and “objectivity” that troubles me.
It will take some time to get to the others, as I dislike reading multiples by the same author in any span, but if Loving is any indication, this is an author that deserves to be had and read.It's strange to read this while Downton Abbey is popular, and to think of it as, perhaps (probably) inspiration for Ishiguro's Remains of the Day, as it feels completely within its own universe.
I began reading page 1 while in the toilet in the morning at 5:00 a.m. and finished while waiting for my nephew in LAX at around 2:00 p.m. I will always remember this book that I tried to understand while standing and waiting for him.
A couple of months back, I read Ishiguro's REMAINS OF THE DAY that got a full 5-star rating from me.
In fact, I was only able to got my copy from the inner sanctum of Booksale Waltermart and I wondered how come most big publishers have not been reprinting this novel.
This would make my top twenty list of the best novels written in the 20th century. A very spooky novel. Think of how Aeschylus's strange play with the 20th century almost Beckettian demarche (in which everything happens somewhere else), The Persians, works. This novel uses a comparable strategy. So subtle. So smart. So memorable. Green is a largely unacknowledged master.
Fucking great book, funny and sad and who writes dialogue like Green, people spark off each other like and that'not what I meant that's not it all....
This book reminds me in some way "The Remains of the Day" by Kazuo Ishiguro and DownTown Abbey by Julian Fellowes. The plot is already written elsewhere.3* Loving TR LivingTR Party GoingTR BackTR Caught
#Classic 'upstairs-downstairs' story#20BooksOfSummer Review
LOVING takes place during World War Two in an English-owned, Irish country estate, a castle.
Charlie is in love with the housekeeper Edith.
The servants are all English and wish to return to England but are afraid of being conscripted, and of the blitz.
Fear is a constant in the book.
And Mrs. Jack, who was discovered naked in bed with a man not her husband, is afraid the servants will tell her mother-in-law, rendering every conversation between them hilarious and awkward as the unstated seems to hover on each of their lips.There is in all this the strong taste of decline.
Reading Henry Green is like a guilty pleasure, one that separates you from the unwashed masses.
His characters come to life -- not from saying things that are significant, but for living their life intensely.Loving is set at Kinalty Castle in Ireland during the early days of the bombardment of London.
Both the owners and the serving staff are English, so English that they are reluctant to deal with the Irish that surround them.
Many of the servants are old and sickly, and there are divisions between the different "fiefs" that constitute the Kinalty.It's hard to put one's finger on why Green is such a great writer.

This book is a testament to love and it is also a look into discrimination and how people judge others before they know them. The story is heart touching and the author does a great job with the turmoil and emotions of the time.
59. LOVING. (1945; U.S. 1949). Henry Green. **. As with most other inveterate readers, I am always on the lookout for new (different) authors that I’ve missed. When playing on Google, I came across a list of the 100 Best Novels put together by Modern Library. Looking through this list, I came across this book. I had never heard of either the title or the author, and got a copy from our library system. It was a Penguin, with an introduction by John Updike. I’m always suspicious of books from the
When playing on Google, I came across a list of the 100 Best Novels put together by Modern Library.
Looking through this list, I came across this book.
I had never heard of either the title or the author, and got a copy from our library system.
I’m always suspicious of books from the modern age that have introductions, but I’m a fan of Updike, and he, apparently, was a fan of Green.
According to Mr. Updike, Mr. Green was influenced in his writing by the book “Travels in Arabia Desert,” which I read about thirty years ago.
It took a while but I finally got into it.
In addition, I couldn't figure out who was speaking until well into the book.
It reveals the life of English staff at an Irish house at the time of the war and how their attitudes toward toward the neutral Irish are.
But you do get the picture and a more realistic picture of life in service at this particular time and in this particular place.
After I finally was settled into the book, I appreciated the broad humor - including lisping insurance men, adulterous daughter-in-laws, strangled peacocks and larcenous staff.
Imagining this novel in cinematic form, it would be like the famous long shot opening of A Touch of Evil - one continuous shot zooming in on something happening, pulling out and moving in on something or someone else.
This is what I liked about the dialogue format of Loving, you'd have a conversation between two characters who'd see other characters in passing and the story and the dialogue then seamlessly move to those characters.
Yet in these conversation, characters often don't pay a slightest bit of notice on what the other person is saying.
This is sometimes funny but also gets a bit repetitive since it goes in circles.
Loving is set in a large Irish country house during the Second World War – it has a kind of superior Upstairs Downstairs/Downtown feel to it. The majority of the novel focuses very much on the downstairs inhabitants of the household. As the novel opens the old butler Mr Eldon lays dying, while the downstairs staff scuttle about and take turns in watching over him. Charley Raunce is the first footman, and he awaits the chance to step seamlessly into the butler’s shoes, move into his apartment and take Eldon’s seat at table in the servants’ hall.Full review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2015/...
A far inferior Evelyn Waugh? I didn't really get this book at all. I kept wishing to know more about the English landed gentry in Ireland during World War II, but though Green hints at the tensions he never develops. He also suggests a lesbian relationship between two of the maids but sadly never develops either. Otherwise the characters are very slim and the portrait of the servants really rather condescending.
