https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96428.Prisoners_of_the_Sun
Le temple du soleil=Prisoners of the Sun (Tintin #14), Hergéتاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه مارس سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: معبد خورشید؛ نویسنده: هرژه؛ مترجم: خسرو سمیعی؛ تهران، یونیورسال، 1354، در 62 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای فکاهی از نویسندگان بلژیکی در قرن 20 مچهاردهمین کتاب از سری کتابهای تن تن و میلو؛ که دنباله ی کتاب هفت گوی بلورین است. تن تن و کاپیتان هادوک برای یافتن پروفسور تورنسل عازم آمریکای جنوبی میشوند؛ و سرانجام، پس از ماجراهای فراوان، توسط بازماندگان تمدن اینکاها، دستگیر و به مرگ محکوم میشوند. اما ت
تن‌ تن و کاپیتان هادوک برای یافتن پروفسور تورنسل عازم آمریکای جنوبی می‌شوند؛ و سرانجام، پس از ماجراهای فراوان، توسط بازماندگان تمدن اینکاها، دستگیر و به مرگ محکوم می‌شوند.
اما تن‌ تن با استفاده از زمان خورشید گرفتگی و هماهنگ کردن آن با لحظهٔ سوزانده شدنشان، موفق به نجات خود و سایرین می‌شود.
اینکاها نیز به گمان اینکه تن‌ تن با نیرویی خاص توانسته «خدای خورشید» را به خاموشی وادارد، او و سایرین را آزاد نموده و به آزار هفت دانشمند نیز پایان می‌دهند.

The Inca curse takes Tintin and Haddock to Peru17 February 2012 It took me a while to get around to reading this one (okay, it was a week, but then again I am re-reading all of my Tintin comics, and getting my hands on the ones that I don't have, though I have found that getting a copy of Tintin in the Congo is going to be an expensive endeavour) but I finally read it this morning and I must say that I absolutely loved it.
This is an adventure story in the truest sense of the word.
It pretty muc
It pretty much have everything in it: an ancient Inca conspiracy, treks through the mountains and the jungles, hilarious scenes with Captain Haddock getting himself into all kinds of trouble (would we expect any less from Herge?), numerous death-defying experiences, and the typical antics of the Thompson Twins.
Some have indicated that by travelling half-way around the world, and then treking for weeks over some very inhospitable terrain shows how much love they hold for Professor Calculus, and what is more surprising is that this is technically the second adventure that they go on after meeting him (and by saying this I consider Seven Crystals Balls and Prisoners of the Sun to be one long adventure).
عالى بود! عااالى !+ با تشكر از صان :))))))
A grand Peruvian adventure in which the Captain proves himself to be almost as annoying as Willie in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom. He gets bit by mosquitos, laughed at by howler monkeys, licked by an anteater, bowled over by a tapir, sits on an alligator and is spat upon by multitudes of llamas. Through it all, he does manage to hang onto his cap, so there's that...
My life is better (and cusses, richer), thanks to Captain Haddock and moments like these:
Today after coming from The secret of the unicorn movie, I was inspired to read the comics!!During my childhood I used to watch the adventures of tintin cartoon!! Instantly I fell in love with the story!! After a long time I got an opportunity to read the series!!The prisoners of the sun is one of my favorites among the comic series!! Tin-tin as usual with his spontaneous nature dealt with the problem!! It was awesome when he chose the date of sacrifice!!Do read the comic, if u get an opportunity!!
Ah come on, make a movie out of the story--The Seven crystal balls and prisoner of the sun! It will be box office hit for sure.
"Seitsemän kristallipallon" jatko-osa oli jo lapsena eräs parhaista Tintti-albumeista, ja kärkipäässä se keikkunee vieläkin. Tarina itsessään on melkoista todellisuuspakoa, joka kadonneine inka-yhteiskuntineen ja uhrimenoineen tuo mieleen Edgar Rice Burroughsin tarinatehtaan.
#49 for 2018Genre: Children Comic
"Billions of blue blistering barnacles!!!" ....That has been a very funny Tintin. I like these Comics since my childhood. Maybe i read the Inca adventures now for the third or forth time, but this time with the Tintin App on my Laptop, so i could make the cute pictures from time to time very big to admire Herges paintings....i like them so much.My own little snowy or Struppi i have adventures with on the Philippino Jungle Islands. http://sherrysmoon.tumblr.com/post/171511924038
نکته شگفت انگیزی که بهش برخوردم این که در سال های کودکی من قیمت این کتاب ها یک جهش عجیب غریب داشت به طوری که باید صبر میکردم تا شماره های بعدی رو کسی به عنوان هدیه در مناسبت خاصی برام تهیه کنه.
این مسئله به وضوح در خاطر من هست؛ یک بار مادربزرگم ده تا از کتاب های تن تن رو باهم برام خرید و من حسابی در فکر فرو رفتم که بنده خدا چقدر در خرج افتاده!
وانگهی، امروز وقتی رفتم تا قیمت پشت جلد کتاب رو در سال 1380 ببینم، با عدد دو هزار و پانصد تومان رو به رو شدم که خب در سال 1395 این مبلغ کرایه تاکسی خطی های انقلاب-ونک است...
Another superb adventure - great finish too. I remember being surprised by the ending when I first read it as a kid and this time around it's fun to see Haddock stressing and Tintin kicking back :DLoved the 'through the waterfall section' and the various animals tormenting Haddock in the jungles too. Probably the best 'two-part' adventure in the series for me.
ادامه «هفت گوی بلوری» که تن تن و کاپیتان هادوک برای پیدا کردن پروفسور کلکولس به پرو می روند. و باز هم با اقبال و زیرکی استثنایی تن تن از مخمصه بزرگی فرار می کنند. از بهترین های تن تن.
এটাও একটুর জনয পারফেকট হতে গিয়ে রয়ে গেল। হিউমার, এডভেঞচার, ডরয়িং সবই পারফেকট। কিনতু একটা বই একই সাথে যখন সায়েনস এবং যাদুটোনা দুটোর কারযকারিতা দেখায়, তখন কিছুটা বিশবাসযোগযতা হারিয়ে বসে।
এটাও একটুর জন্য পারফেক্ট হতে গিয়ে রয়ে গেল। হিউমার, এডভেঞ্চার, ড্রয়িং সবই পারফেক্ট। কিন্তু একটা বই একই সাথে যখন সায়েন্স এবং যাদুটোনা দুটোর কার্যকারিতা দেখায়, তখন কিছুটা বিশ্বাসযোগ্যতা হারিয়ে বসে।
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:With Professor Calculus in grave danger, the boy reporter and dog Snowy lead a rescue.
Disegni fantastici, una storia affascinante e gag splendidamente incastrate.
Or: Captain Haddock and the llamas. What confused me is that sometimes haddock and Tintin adresses each other with "Tu " and in other times with "vous". Same goes for Tintin and the Inca.
once again, motor-mouth archibald provide reliably comedic dialogue like, "stand back, anachronisms!""politicians"?
My first Tintin and I thoroughly enjoyed it. Plus, I got some great insight into Herge and what made him write Tintin.
Le racisme dégouline dans les œuvres d'Hergé...
Another book I had to read for the Pragmatic course assignment.
Reading the comic (and watching the cartoons) are like going around the world, exploring various cultures, and meeting many kinds of people.When I was a kid, I never thought about signs or stereotypes.
But, after years later, when I read Tintin comic again, many other thoughts come to my mind.
This might be like what they say: "Reading the same book at different time will create different impacts."Are the Indians really that bad to the point that they will kill people for wearing a treasure?
A lot of 'days pass' and the finale involves them relaxing in luxury quarters before an obvious cop out ending (ok, maybe more obvious now than it would have been at the time), an improbable reverse face and reward of great riches.The Captain is particularly annoying with his brand of (admittedly innovative) cursing and buffoonery though when you add in the Thom(p)son's stupid slapstick and inane word play or the one note Calculus (being deaf only goes so far in the humour department) it's difficult to figure out who's more irritating.
I'm thinking Tintin is not for me but I'm now in that situation where I've read so far I kind of need to see it through to the end.
This secluded, modern day Incas (whose existence all the world ignores) travel to Europe following the Sanders-Hardiman expedition, put its members in an induced comatose state that no modern medicine can decipher, are smart enough to return unscathed fooling our heroes and the police in the process, and yet fail to recognize an eclipse?Even disregarding the fact that the Incas were very well acquainted with Astronomy, the ending of the book transforms the former perpetrators of an incredible revenge into a group of easily scared ignorants, all too eager to embrace Tintin's performance as the true representative of Pachacamac (Inti, actually).
I see a great inconsistency in that.Although chock-full of great moments, and enjoyable as it may be, this could have possibly been the best of all Tintin's two-parters, but, it is marred by the unsuitable ending.
This is the concluding part of Tintin's adventure in Peru and the Inca.I would have liked this book more if there were an elaboration on how the Inca made the expedition members sick (see The Seven Crystal Balls).
In essence, "The Seven Crystal Balls" and "The Prisoners of The Sun" can be seen as prototypes of arguably the best Tintin book, "Tintin in Tibet".
Tintin and Haddock's search and rescue of Professor Calculus mirrors that for their other friend, Chang (see The Blue Lotus and Tintin in Tibet).
Interestingly, Tintin saves and befriend a boy that can also be regarded as another Chang, Zorrino.
3.5 starsGreat to read and see PRISONERS OF THE SUN as it was originally published in serial form to inaugurate Hergé's new postwar magazine Le Journal de Tintin (though this volume does not represent the first time that the story was reprinted in this form).
The presentation of the supplementary information by Goddin face-à-face with the original pages carries over from its preceding companion volume, though this time around the context is dominated by Hergé's research on National Geographic expeditions.
The most valuable sequences in this respect are the ones detailing the 'missing' strips that tie THE SEVEN CRYSTAL BALLS with PRISONERS OF THE SUN, considering that the former story was never completed in its serial form.
This is the direct sequel to The Seven Crystal Balls, although perhaps it's more fair to say that it's a single story split into two books.
After saving a young Indian orange seller from bullying, the boy agrees to guide Tintin and Haddock into the mountains, which is where Calculus' trail leads.
The name of the god is Pachacamac, which is apparently the name of an pre-Incan temple complex near Lima.
As Tintin adventures go, the duology The Seven Crystal Balls and Prisoners of the Sun are among the better ones, though they're nowhere near as good as the two Moon books.
The beginnings of these stories have been around as long as the Lord of the Rings, the illustration and environments in the Tintin books are accurate and extremely detailed.
Anyone who has spent even a little time exploring Herge (Georges Remi) can see the painstaking research and adversity he worked through to compose the world around Tintin.
His ideas were ahead of his time (Exploring the moon, Industrialization, South American political conflict, modern slave trade, extraterrestrial life) and he made certain every detail for every object would be realistic (after the third book at least).
Herge's work can certainly be cited as an influence for any modern day graphic novel or comic book.
Wow...
I loved the art in this one!
Best art work so far!
The story was good but not great although I have to recognize that Hergé had to study a lot in order to write this comic book.
The surroundings are well portraited, names are correct and most Peruvian concepts are almost correct.
I don't give this issue a 5 stars just because of the unnecessary animal killing, also there is a part where Captain Haddock killed the "bad people"...
NOT GOOD.
After reading several Tintin issues I can positively say that Captain Haddock is an alcoholic and he is not trying to recover from it.
First Tintin comic I read. No super powers here. No extravagant action scenes. No ground breaking art. Just plain good story telling. Highly sanitary even for younger readers. Hergé was able to make an unlikely team up of a reporter, his dog, and a retired ship captain very entertaining. In this particular story, I like it how they travelled across Peru to look for the contradiction (genius and fool at the same time) named Professor Calculus.One of the best examples of how something simple can be wonderful.
