https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2295674.A_Cool_Million
Nathanael West may be America's bitterest novelist, and A Cool Million, or the Dismantling of Lemuel Pitkin (1934),written in the worst years of The Great Depression, is by far his bitterest work.
But those who read A Cool Million will discover a nightmare vision of the American Dream that—more than three-quarters of a century after its author's death—still rings true today.Speaking of ringing true today: the following is West's description of a crowd incited to riot by former president “Shagpoke” Whipple.
رمان کم حجمی که در طول دو روز خواندن خندههای تلخ زیادی به سراغم اومد.
این کتاب تاخت و تاز وحشیانهای به کاپیتالیسم و رویای آمریکایی است.کمیکی خشک و ناسور که قهرمان آن به رغم کوشش زیاد نه تنها از فرش به عرش نمیرسد، بلکه به زیرزمین هم تشریف میبرند.
داستان نوجوان تهیدست و خوشبینی را روایت میکند که در دوران رکود بزرگ امریکا رهسپار یافتن بخت خود و نجات خانه مادرش میشود.
با امیدی کورکورانه سفر خود را آغاز میکند از همان ب بسم ا..
هدف شروران و کلاهبرداران میشود.
پسری با های و هوی زیاد (به هرکس میرسد از ه
این کتاب تاخت و تاز وحشیانه‌ای به کاپیتالیسم و رویای آمریکایی است.کمیکی خشک و ناسور که قهرمان آن به رغم کوشش زیاد نه تنها از فرش به عرش نمی‌رسد، بلکه به زیرزمین هم تشریف می‌برند.
داستان نوجوان تهیدست و خوشبینی را روایت می‌کند که در دوران رکود بزرگ امریکا رهسپار یافتن بخت خود و نجات خانه مادرش می‌شود.
پسری با های و هوی زیاد (به هرکس می‌رسد از هوا و هوس و آرزوهای خودش می‌گوید) که در مسیرش قربانی بانکدارها، سیاستمدارها، جیب‌برها، برده‌دارهای ایتالیایی، ج.ا.کش‌های چینی و پلیس‌های سادیستی ایرلندی-آمریکایی می‌شود.
This tragicomedy debunks the Horatio Alger Jr. myths of the American Dream during the 1930's depression. This is an unknown gem.
By the end of the book, he has evolved into a political pawn of the quasi-fascist, chillingly real National Revolutionary Party, which clearly is modeled after Mussolini's Italy and Hitler's Germany.
It is ever so chilling to read in the very closing sentences of West's politically perceptive novel the NRP cheering the dead hero with "Hail the Martyrdom...Hail, Lemuel Pitkin...All Hail, the Americam Boy!" Of course, the German word for "Hail" is "Heil", as in "Heil Hitler."West, writing en scène during the early 1930s, likely thought the United States was risking becoming like Italy and Germany if the problems of the Depression were not solved quickly.
"Somehow or another I seem to have slipped in between all the 'schools.' My books meet no needs except my own, their circulation is practically private and I'm lucky to be published.
And yet, I only have a desire to remedy all that before sitting down to write, once begun I do it my way.
I forget the broad sweep, the big canvas, the shot-gun adjectives, the important people, the significant ideas, the lessons to be taught, the epic Thomas Wolfe, the realistic James Farrell-- and go on making what one critic called 'private and unfunny jokes.'"-Nathanael West to F.
But this time, in this era, in this part of Bulgaria, the lurid cartoon quality of the book, exposing the brutality of dream makers, seemed much deeper and more timely.People call it a satire, but the characters are far too broad and stooge-like for satire.
Written in 1934, one of the book's main characters is an ex-U.S. president who recruits teams of unemployed followers called "Leather Shirts." The book would seem to be satirizing Hitler in a surprisingly gentle way.
The main character/stooge has it much worse, so finding myself in Bulgaria, reading it at a time when world politics seems more cartoonish and violent than a decade or so ago, seemed especially timely.
Πρόκειται για ένα άκρως σατιρικό έργο, γεμάτο μαύρο χιούμορ και ακραίες καταστάσεις, όπου οι υπερβολές της πλοκής και η γρήγορη εξέλιξη των όλων κωμικοτραγικών γεγονότων, αναδεικνύουν με τον πιο έντονο τρόπο όλες τις παθογένειες που κρύβονταν την "χρυσή" δεκαετία του '30, πίσω από το αναθεματισμένο Αμερικάνικο Όνειρο.
Αντί για το Αμερικάνικο Όνειρο, ο καημένος Λεμ θα δει με τον πιο σκληρό τρόπο πως είναι ο Αμερικάνικος...
Δεν είναι να πάρει κανείς στα σοβαρά την πλοκή και όλα τα τρελά και σουρεαλιστικά πράγματα που συμβαίνουν, γιατί έτσι θα αδικηθεί το βιβλίο.
No-one has ever viewed the American Dream with more cynicism, or more venom, than Nathanael West. His literary output was incredibly slender – one short novel, The Day of the Locust, and three novellas – but time has done nothing to diminish the power and the bitterness of his vision. West’s satire isn’t subtle, but it’s undeniably effective. Published in 1934, this is a savage and bleak little book.
OK, so its a grotesquely exaggerated in your face satire: thats the whole point. But the real disturbia is to be found not in the laconic and deadpan list of amputated fingers, scalps and other syphilitic like loss of extremeties which litter the story board, rather the uncomfortable anticlimax which goes against the grain of Western folklore: that if you work hard enough, try hard enough, chase your dreams and persevere, you will succeed.
West's third book comes between "Miss Lonelyhearts" and "The Day of the Locust" in his bibliography.
"A Cool Million" exists in a middle area between his semi-realistic books (previously mentioned) and his purely surrealistic debut, "The Dream Life of Balso Snell." Snell, as I wrote before, jumps from tree limb to tree limb without looking back, the vague "plot" merely a series of set pieces that poke fun at academia, the capital-C-Classics, and the state of the world circa 1931.
If you only want to get a little taste, read "Miss Lonelyhearts" first, "Day of the Locust" second, and check these out later if you're still in the mood for more.
and yeah it's well-written and I think somewhere deep down Nathan Weinstein was really appalled at the world around him and this was his only way of venting.
The satire holds up well.
There is no place to hide and God is Evil.
I'm about done with satire, man.
I know the world is fucked up.
I don't need an extended metaphor on how everyone is a double-dealing piece of shit to tell me that and I don't get any joy at laughing cynically as the world erupts in flames.
There really is nowhere to hide.
این از اون کتابهاست که اگه از یکی داستانش رو بپرسی احتمالاً خیلی هیجانزده نمیشی واسه خوندنش. داستان یه پسر دهاتی که به امید رویای آمریکایی میره "سرزمین فرصتها" که زندگیش رو بسازه ولی همینطور تو فلاکت فرو میره. تم خیلی تکراریه و سبک هجونامه هم دیگه از مد افتاده. ولی کتابه بیشتر از اینهاست. داستانش خوب و پرکششه، بعضی جاها واقعاً خندهداره و ترجمه رضا علیزاده هم خیلی خوب طنز ماجرا رو منتقل میکنه. یه بخشهایی از کتاب هم توصیفهای خیلی درخشانی داره که دیدنش تو همچین سبک داستانی عجیبه.  ۲۰۰ صفحه تو قطع پ
این از اون کتابهاست که اگه از یکی داستانش رو بپرسی احتمالاً خیلی هیجان‌زده نمیشی واسه خوندنش.
داستان یه پسر دهاتی که به امید رویای آمریکایی میره "سرزمین فرصتها" که زندگیش رو بسازه ولی همینطور تو فلاکت فرو میره.
تم خیلی تکراریه و سبک هجونامه هم دیگه از مد افتاده.
ولی کتابه بیشتر از اینهاست.
داستانش خوب و پرکششه، بعضی جاها واقعاً خنده‌داره و ترجمه رضا علیزاده هم خیلی خوب طنز ماجرا رو منتقل میکنه.
یه بخشهایی از کتاب هم توصیفهای خیلی درخشانی داره که دیدنش تو همچین سبک داستانی عجیبه.
Oh my god Nathanael West what are you doing to me ughhh
Every racial stereotype is in this book, and I can’t tell if they’re being used as satire or if this is the only way the author knows people who are not white.
Lem tries to be a good person, but he finds nothing but crooks and cheaters, and a government working to protect them.I’m all for lampooning that, but the racial stereotypes hold the book back from being a truly great satire.
I think the book is mocking racism and the people who blame foreigners and blacks and Jews for all of America’s problems, but it’s hard to tell because they are so distracting.
In this vicious, upside-down Horatio Alger parody, I've found what must be the source for Lemony Snicket's Series of Unfortunate Events! Poor Lemuel Pitkin, swindled out of his home, falls prey to a series of disasters that result in the loss of an eye, his teeth, a thumb, a leg, his scalp, and ultimately his life. Check out the hilarious Shagpoke Whipple, ex-president, ex-con, and template for the pirate currently occupying the White House. Funny book, but not for the faint of heart.
The Horatio Alger narratives receive the thorough pissing-on that they deserve. The myths we tell ourselves have a nasty habit of enduring - proven by the fact that huge chunks of this novel are just as timely today: many will find the finale uncomfortably close to where we find ourselves in 2018. An incredibly vicious satire - depressing that West only wrote four novels before his untimely death, he's maybe the greatest literary what-if I've ever encountered.
I really like Nathanael West. He really is quite a bitter satirist, and a grim one at that. This book is quite grim, where almost nothing good ever happens. Very bleak... in a good way.
He didnt pull any punches on this one
Like many an Alger, Lemuel Pitkin leaves his home on the farm to seek his fortune in the Big City.
Through the story of Lemuel Pitkin, the four-square, All-American hero, and his sad fate at the hands of rabble-rousers and charlatans, West etched a classic parable of America in the chaotic Thirties------------My take......A short 1934 book for Rich Westwood’s Past Offences monthly meme – see here for other contributions.https://pastoffences.wordpress.com/ta...Hmm…… an ok read, no better no worse.
Hard to disagree with that notion.3 from 5Nathanael West wrote a handful of novels in the 30’s and also worked as a screenwriter, before his death in 1940.I have a collected set of his short novels, but couldn’t find it, so ended up buying this e-version on Amazon.
West's update of Candide, with the protagonist a poor Vermont boy who suffers numerous bodily indignities (loss of teeth, eye, etc.) during the depression.
I didn't find it terribly "relevant," but the novel wasn't a waste of my time.Although the novel is short, I would not recommend it for those who have not read Nathanael West before.
I would recommend reading Miss Lonelyhearts and the Day of the Locust (conveniently published together in one edition), both short and better novels in order to get your fill of West.
Such an underrated West novel. It's a pretty clear rip off of Voltaire's Candide, but you know what? I am okay with reading a 20th Century version of that masterpiece, since the lessons are as dramatic set against the backdrop of the Great Depression. It's also interesting how the American Dream lines up so well with Leibniz's ideas about optimism, and that gives West's work an even sharper edge. As always, West is so darkly hilarious in this book that I was constantly laughing, then feeling really guilty about laughing. Poor Lemuel.
A Cool Million tells the story-- in mock heroic style-- of a young man who goes out into the world, armed only with his industriousness and optimism, to claim his piece of the American Dream. Within the first few pages, he and his love interest are, variously, beaten, raped, imprisoned, sold into slavery, mugged, swindled, and maimed. To call it a savage satire is an understatement, then, and its humor is so pitch black that reading it is sometimes painful. It makes its point boldly and persuasively, though. I've read the novel twice now and can appreciate its grotesque appeal.
Interesting. Some points; the 'hero' being called the 'hero' despite back to back failures and implications in criminal activity and failure to rescue the 'damsel in distress' was cute. The racism and rape 'jokes' (was it supposed to be funny?) reached a point where it was uncomfortable and gross, I felt it surpassed the limits even when considering the novels satirical nature. I enjoyed the communism.
My Bucket List:Drink a full-calorie sodaModel a spring lineUse phrase 'like a sniper at an idiot cull' more oftenRealize that practical concerns can sometime intrudeWrite an Oscar acceptance speechGenerate a color other than under house arrest via my mood ringShare fact 'William Shakespeare died on his birthday' to strangers
I'd forgotten how much I loved West! This 100-page novella is his version of an American Candide, with 17-year-old Lemuel Pitkin forced to leave his home in Vermont and travel to New York to seek his fortune. To say that things don't go well for him is putting it mildly. A marvelous mix of riotous comedy and bleak despair.
First it was William Lindsay Gresham, author of Nightmare Alley who overdosed on sleeping pills and died with business cards in his pocket stating "No Address.
No Business.
But I digress.In A Cool Million, West takes a bludgeon to the eternally optimistic, rags-to-riches success mythology of Horatio Alger.
West's is extreme, biting satire.
(See Alger's Ragged Dick.) Now it's the world of a truly pathetic hero, Lemuel Pitkin.
But much of West's humor appears to be gratuitous brutality unless readers know he's closely satirizing Horatio Alger.
I suggest reading Alger's Ragged Dick before diving into this cringe-inducing dismantling of wholesome young people.
And you can't help reading this rather good little satire without being reminded of the similarities between the time of its writing - the Great Depression - and the current...
Which it is, slapstick in fact (the final scene is exactly that) but if you think of the tragicomedy of Chaplin, from the same era, and reflect on how this still has relevance to us now, then, I believe, this little gem of a novella can more fully be appreciated.This is the third of West's four written fictions, all read in the last few weeks, and I am so glad to have made their acquaintance now: it's never too late.
I am almost always open-minded when it comes to books but this one was just too absurd and strange for me.
It was hard to read after awhile, which again I can accept in literature, but it was just page after page of brutal punishment - the author's treatment of his characters is horrifying.
I understand that this is a satire so it's striving to make a point, but it just wasn't one of my favorite satiric pieces.
Plus even though there is always action I couldn't help but think of the next book I wanted to read.
Overall just a very strange book.
The Horatio Alger and the Candide comparisons aside, this is probably the (black) comically harshest slap-in-the-face for American values that I have read. The chops later shown in The Day of the Locusts are not there, but the simplistic writing aids the ridiculous coincidences and occurrences in the life of the hero, Lem Pitkin. The made-up story of Mr. Whipple having been hit by a bus is made funnier by the storyteller mentioning that it was a  sightseeing  bus. The huge notion of America alwa
The made-up story of Mr. Whipple having been hit by a bus is made funnier by the storyteller mentioning that it was a 
The huge notion of America always rewarding talent is magnified through the failed, swindler poet Sylvanus Snodgrasse about whom the author's voice (itself a farce!) remarks: "Furthermore, having lost faith in himself, he thought it his duty to undermine the nation's faith in itself."Racism flows like blood, and the epilogue-like set of the last few paragraphs switches to the (historical) present tense, beautifully indicating that the American hero is a sucker fit enough to be used across varieties of vested interests forever.
A startling, even shocking, short novel that has its naive hero, Lem Pitkin, travel from Vermont to NYC and out west only to have him systematically (and literally) taken apart by various cheats and scam artists as he searches to make his fortune during the Depression.
West really let his bile flow here, almost cheerfully documenting Lem's misfortunes as well as the equally horrifying fate of his female companion, who suffers a horrific fate even before she is white-slaved to a New York brothel.
I haven't been shocked by a book in a long time, but this one caused me to gasp more than once.
