https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10429092-the-girl-of-fire-and-thorns
A lot.Elisa is fat and likes to eat.
You will hear about the food she eats and the sweets she craves so often that you'll start to wonder if you're reading a thinly veiled advertisement instead, or if this book was sponsored by the coconut or lamb industry.
So then all of that walking means fat Elisa becomes skinny Elisa and all of her problems start melting away along with the pounds; people think she can win their war, boys fall in love with her, girls want to be her best friend.
Running in a 25k marathon.In 4.8 inch heels.In the rain.With an STD.While hungover.And getting passed by a 93-year-old man,Who’s wearing a very form-fitting polyester purple-leopard-print body suit.Would have been better than this book.
As I said, the main character is fat.
It seems silly and vain and should be solved with a simple, "Oh, just eat something," right?Not so much.Once you get in that mental space, it's very difficult to get out.
Like, we are talking simple shit having the potential to trigger months/years of backsliding for me, as lame as that sounds.
Long story, short: The constant talk of eating here started to make me a little nervous and I could feel once dead mental baggage start to rear up a bit; but thankfully, the story eventually moved forward from the constant mention of food, etc.
I feel torn about The Girl of Fire and Thorns.On the one hand, there's not much room to accuse this book of being slow - the action is constant, zipping along from a bloody battle, to a lusty encounter (PG-13, of course), to another dramatic reveal, to a kidnapping.
Despite being a very different kind of story, I would compare it to books like Divergent and The Maze Runner, in that it has lots of flashy action and fast pacing, but underneath there lurks mediocre writing, all tell and no show, and flat characters separated into the "beautiful" and the unattractive/fat.Elisa is characterized by her fatness.
Or like in Wither, where the heroine is kidnapped for the sole purpose of being impregnated, but somehow manages to avoid sex for a year while her husband has no problem sleeping with a 13-year old.) And another example, Elisa is kidnapped and when she sees her kidnapper, her first thoughts are: "I gasp, for his face is only a handspan above mine.
Although you can argue that this is a fantasy novel, so it can be any kind of deity, not necessarily a Christian one.I would recommend The Girl of Fire and Thorns to those who like action-driven books and can overlook deficiencies in character development.
“And God raised up for Himself a champion. Yea, once in every four generations He raised him up to bear His mark.”  What better way to take a break from stupid reality things like essays and demanding classes than a YA fantasy book about war, prophecy, an unlikely heroine and mouth-watering food? Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleasantly surprised!  “Lucero-Elisa. Heavenly light, chosen of God. His words suffocate me as surely as his embrace. All my life, I've been reminded that I am destined for
The story of a girl who was suffocating under the pressure of being God's chosen one, who had to overcome her insecurities and everybody's mocking and stand up for herself and the ones who needed her.
All the beauty in the world does not matter if you are rotten inside, if you don't use your brain, if your soul isn't kind.The world-building and the magic system were painted with bright colours, the religion and each culture unfolded naturally and I absolutely loved the court schemings and the war strategies!
1.5 stars. All in all incredibly underwhelming and somewhat both idiotic and infuriating. Trust me, I would love to tell you that my distaste only revolves around personal matters - as a strong case of "it's not the book but me", let's say - but in all honesty, I really don't think that and the problems I had with The Girl of Fire and Thorns were way too numerous to be left ignored. "You must not lose faith, child. No matter what. Do not doubt God or his choosing of you. He knows infinitely more
Trust me, I would love to tell you that my distaste only revolves around personal matters - as a strong case of "it's not the book but me", let's say - but in all honesty, I really don't think that and the problems I had with The Girl of Fire and Thorns were way too numerous to be left ignored.
Hé, sure, I cannot deny how action-packed the story is but I'd rather read about few in-depth plot points than a succession of superficial twists, because you know what?
Truly honorable death, the only honorable death, is one that enables life. I enjoyed reading this book but not in the way I expected. The characters were very realistic and the concept of the Godstone was very unique. The story moves at a good pace and I look forward to seeing where Rae Carson takes this story. This book, in my opinion, had enough potential to be left as a standalone but there are 2 more books and I am genuinely interested in seeing how our protagonist grows into the position s
This book, in my opinion, had enough potential to be left as a standalone but there are 2 more books and I am genuinely interested in seeing how our protagonist grows into the position she reaches at the end of the book.
There are people out there who want the Godstone from her, and they will stop at nothing to take it from her.Elisa is the bearer of the Godstone, and in that she is blessed, but in every other aspect of her life she believes she remains unimportant.
So....What's the deal with the friggin stone?!Like most things that God gives, there aren't any instructions that come with it.
(hide spoiler)]No. No, no, no!Get the fuck outta here with that bullshit.Ok, the ambiguous nature of the stone, the religious aspects, and a weird (I felt) superpower reveal were the biggest drawbacks to this book.
Yes, she did end up losing quite a few pounds, but (my opinion) that wasn't a bad thing, since it mentions several times how winded she got when she did stuff.
DEAR EVERYBODY: YOU NEED TO READ THIS!!! Seriously, what Rae Carson does with this book is brilliant and extremely refreshing! Everything is so honest and genuine and I loved every moment of it.
No one?After reading (many) things like these, I was sure she was going to start shouting "Kill the infidels!" any moment.
I'm not saying she can't be smart and self-sufficient when she wants, but as soon as a problem arises her first thought is "Please God make it right".
It's there, it says there: be happy with it as it is.•I absolutely do not condone this horrid things authors usually do when they introduce a character only to kill him for the sake of drama.
10/12/17Help, I feel… nothing.You know when you can’t say you hated or loved a book because you can't even remember what went on? That's how I feel right now. I don’t remember half the characters much less the plot because I was so bored and I’ve only finished it just a few hrs ago. 🤦♀Pray you don't feel the dread of indifference, my friends because a lack of any emotion towards a book is far worse than hating it. At least then you still feel… something.However, all’s not doom and gloom because
10/12/17Help, I feel… nothing.You know when you can’t say you hated or loved a book because you can't even remember what went on?
Told in the first person narrative, we’re sucked right into Elisa’s world as the story opens on the day of her marriage to King Alejandro of a neighbouring kingdom, Joya d’Arena, for a political allegiance.After the marriage, she sets off to her husband’s kingdom and… this is where it all falls apart.The mystery element of the book was completely lost on me because I found nothing mysterious about it and the characters were simply too boring to remember.
AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING.This book has a very strong female character.And guess what??SHE IS DIFFERENT FROM OTHER FEMALE CHARACTERS.Probably one of the first  maybe only books that have a girl who isn't that skinny, and perfect little 'ordinary' girl.No, this book has a wonderful girl who loves sweets AND WILL ACTUALLY EAT THEM DAILY BECUZ SHE LOVES THEM, NOT BECUZ SHE WANTS TO BECOME A SKELETON.So to all u peoples out there...........
u is beautiful So screw body image, eat all the cake ya wantBut besides this, Elisa, (the pastry loving-princess), bears an amazing power.
You've got an all in one character that you'll absolutely love.
;)So......basically...................-amazing MC-Hot but imperfect dudes.
Seriously, what the fuck happened, I'm still screaming.Here are some reasons why I liked this book:◇We don't have a skinny MC.
I love how Elisa wasn't a skinny heroine and what she looks like shouldn't matter.
She was smart, brave, thought and extremely fucking annoying at times and I loved it.
(view spoiler)[this is the first book where both of the fucking love interests die.
well done (hide spoiler)]◇This book has God in it.
It's weird seeing God in a YA Fantasy book.
It isn't even preachy so that's great.What I didn't like:◇The fucking plot.
◇This was very boring and slow at times???
Oh, my goodness.A heroine who actually thinks for herself?A heroine who doesn't get swayed by hot men?A heroine who overcomes her fears realistically and courageously?A heroine who is perfect in her imperfections?A heroine who is flawed yet so real?A FANTASY STORY WHERE THE ROMANCE IS ACTUALLY NOT CENTRAL???Ooh. La.
La.To say that I enjoyed this book is an understatement.It's been a while since I finished a book in one sitting.
Seriously, recently, it takes me 3-5 days max to finish a single book.
This one woke me up from that horrendous daze and made me remember why reading is so enjoyable.And yes, if you haven't picked up the hint, this is to say you have to read this book now if you haven't yet.
I've been gnawing at fantasies like a fiend lately and FINALLY I found this one which is a) unique, and b) feministic, and c) incredibly adorable and charming and heart warming.
WHERE EVEN TO BEGIN?!!It's an incredible rich fantasy world, which was gorgeous to eat.
If nothing else: read this book for the incredibleness that is Elisa.
She definitely goes down as one of the BEST characters I've ever read.-Alejandro: Totally a weak sap head.
He didn't have the most massive role in the book, but I totally shipped him and Elisa.
Actually, the whole book isn't astronomically fast, and I did feel a bit weary reading it.
This was one of those books I have a hard time rating, simply because some elements were very well done, and others very poorly done.The Girl of Fire and Thorns is the story of Elisa, princess to the country of Oravalle and bearer of the Godstone, a jewel implanted in her navel that signifies she is marked by god as one who will do a Service.
And though there are two more books in the series, The Girl of Fire and Thorns was a complete story, with few lingering threads at its end.
I recommend this for fans of Tamora Pierce, Kristin Cashore, and my own high fantasy. This is a transformation story that teens and adults can believe in. Never condescending.
I LOVED THIS BOOK! So freaking epic! Elisa is just one of those characters you fall in love with.
DNF at 50% "I understand why it is better to die from my service than never complete it at all. Far, far better. Homer and Damian never profited from their acts of heroism; everyone who followed did. In the same way, I may never reap the benefits of mine, should I complete it. But that doesn't matter, because God placing his stone in my belly was never about me." I firmly believe a new genre should be carved out just for The Girl of Fire and Thorns: Religious Fantasy. Lord, is it preachy—just lo
"I understand why it is better to die from my service than never complete it at all.
But when it bears a remarkable resemblance to a religion that currently exists in our world, you start to wonder what the book's agenda is.
Those that cry "It's just fiction!" and has no impact on our world at all are just deluding themselves.) Again, overt religion does not equal bad.
So take this point with healthy skepticism.There's a love triangle, which I saw coming a light year away.
The background is religious: every century, "God" (it seems to be a Catholic-y god, but is also kind of undefined), chooses a "bearer" to wear a magic stone in their belly button.
We aren't really sure what the stone does for awhile, but it has magic, and the bearer is chosen to do some special deed.The main character is a teen and is married off right away to an older man.
The main character is "fat" in the beginning.
I guess she had to lose the weight to walk around in all that sand.
I reeeeeeeeally liked this. This was such a refreshing YA fantasy I didn't realize how much I needed something like this. The premise was interesting and unique and I felt many different feels while reading this story. I would also like to note that (for me anyway) the synopsis does not do this book justice at all. I really expected this to be more of a fluff fantasy and I ended up putting it off for so long because of it. Very much looking forward to continuing!
There’s nothing more exciting than starting a new book that feels different from anything you’ve read before.
Immediately, I knew that The Girl of Fire and Thorns was one such book.
YA frequently deals with the anxiety of not feeling accepted, with feelings of not fitting in, but it is rare to see a novel that unflinchingly describes the very real exclusion and ridicule that Elisa is subjected to from her community.
I don’t want to spoil too much… but Carson has built a fantasy world that defies expectations, genre conventions, and challenges our perceptions of race and the body head on.
All bearers are chosen by god to perform an act of heroism for him and although it appeared that many bearers didn't complete their service it was thought at the end that all the bearers contributed in little ways to one large deed and Elisa has yet to play her part.I was quite surprised with the ending though I mean how could the author kill off two important characters....I did enjoy the action and unpredictability of this book and look forward to the rest of the series.
I really enjoyed this one! It didn't pull me in right away but I quite enjoyed the second half of the book! Moving along to COE right away!
5/9/16 $2.99 on amazon hereI will preface that I was a little worried about this book when I started.
I can truthfully say I never felt preached to or at.The book starts out with the wedding of a princess to a prince.
Elisa was born with a Godstone in her bellybutton and that means that she has a destiny, she has been chosen.
In the beginning she was a little hard to love as a main character because she seemed so weak and pampered finding comfort in food.
I really wanted to like this book.
It's just sad is I begun reading there was just something missing.
I just didn't really care that much about what happened.
And I know I did not read very far but I just didn't care too.
And maybe I can't judge because I didn't get part all but I just didn't care.
It wasn't like I hated it or anything.
I definitely wanted to like it though.
I just don't really see the point in reading it further if it's not interesting to me though.
Though maybe if you read it you might like it.
7 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blog Living A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:Fyre – Away From HomeKatie Melua – The FloodLes Friction – FirewallGenre: high-fantasy, YAStuff: ugly duckling, Spanish tune, court intrigues, dessertFail: too much religion and fat-talksWOW: MC's transformation POV: 1st-person, femaleLove-Geometry: seeming, almost zeroQ
Meet Elisa, she’s clumsy, average, fat and she’s very aware of it.Our MC is only 16 and she becomes a wife of a mature widower (~30 year-old, I guess) with a young child, a kingdom (yup, he's king) to protect (a war is looming on horizon) and a beautiful mistress with questionable intentions and awful personality.
And I was eager for her to charm Alejandro (this desire was fading away though, 'since the king was an uncertain person with great responsibilities and inability to fulfill his duties (it's not about sex, ahahah, just saying) to the country (told ya)).
Weight loss equated with the protagonist coming into her own: Of course, Princess Elisa loses a ton of weight when she's captured by rebels, forced to walk across a desert for a month, and then compelled to lead the rebel forces in battle.
Weight loss equated with heroism: Almost no one respects Elisa until she loses weight.
Not every fat girl needs to be kidnapped out of her bed, forced to walk for a month in the desert, and conveniently find her inner skinny chick in the course of becoming the hero she is supposed to be—-even as she obsesses over food and her weight on virtually every single page.
Actually--screw it--imma go right out and say that the sole reason I read The Girl of Fire and Thorns was because I had bought the second book last year for like $1.99 and I wanted to get this series out of the way.
You know in good fantasy books, like Harry Potter, where the magic does not make a bit of rational sense, I AM LYING HEHEHE MUGGLES but you still understand, because it’s fiction, right?
The Girl of Fire and Thorns is to the fantasy genre as Defiance is to dystopia, and if you've read that book (and disliked it) you’d know what I mean.
