https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/165035.The_Emigrants

History and literature in happy marriage!I have grown increasingly impatient with historical fiction in recent years, but this opus magnum in four heavy volumes by Vilhelm Moberg is still one of my favourite reading experiences of all time.
The once heavy Swedish rural dialect is lost, and English words appear instead, an early version of the now omnipresent Swenglish.The last volume of the series, called "Sista brevet till Sverige", or "The last letter to Sweden", closes the chapter of their Swedish heritage and completes the transformation into Americans: full of Anglicisms, and of reports on the adventures of a disconnected offspring, the letter from old Karl-Oscar to his sister in the Swedish village "at home" symbolises closure.
رحلة ملحمية، مؤثرة وعميقة.. تضعك في شوق للجزء الثاني. على أمل أن يصدر قريبًا.
In Lindstrom, Minnesota you can see a statue of Karl Oscar and Kristina (matching statue in Karlshamn, Sweden) and visit the Nilsson/Nelson house, complete with astrakhan apple tree (a pioneer house built at about the same time and moved to a park).What this book is very good at is examining the question of "why go?" -- push factors and pull factors, the sheer effort to wrest a new life from wilderness, the failures of some to prosper, the difficulties of adapting to a new culture and new language.
ثم ظروف ترجمتها,يكفيني منها أن تذكر لي بأن هذه الرواية ستلتهمني قبل أن ألتهمها, هي تلك النوع من المثقفات التي تغريك بعصرونية وشاي مغربي وكتاب.
أما "رباعية المهاجرون" الطبعة الأصلية نشرت عام 1949 للروائي فيلهلم موبيرغ, ترجم منها فقط الجزء الأول.
وتغوص في الظروف الإقتصادية -المحرض الأول على الهجرة- والدينية والاجتماعية بشكل عام التي دفعت مجموعة من فلاحي مقاطعة سمولاند إلى البحث عن وطن آخر.
بدأ موبيرغ بوصف مفصل لظروف الفلاحين ساكني أبرشية ليودر, من حيث انقسام المجتمع إلى طبقتين -نبيلة وخدم- والمعاناة التي يتكبدها المزارعون من حيث عيشهم تحت رحمة "طقس الرب" الذي يجلب عليهم سنين سمينة وأخرى عجفاء.
I picked this book up by chance for something to read while visiting my poor mom who had a stroke and was moved to a nursing home. A 2nd generation Swedish American who spoke only Swedish as a child, I cannot help but marvel at what she and her parents and grandparents went through. The harsh economic conditions in Sweden in the 1850's, the grueling journey in a tiny boat, the serious misinformation these brave people had. Well, it's a marvel we're all here. Hang in there, mom, 93 years old.
I'm about half Swedish, and after I read "The Namesake," which I loved, I was curious about the story of my own family coming to the US.
The main family comes to the Midwest at around the same time as my ancestors, so it's a reasonable substitution I suppose.
I enjoyed it and I intend to read the following books in the series sometime soon.This book takes place mostly in Sweden as the characters make their various decisions to leave for America.
The book was written in the 1950's, and takes place 100 years before that.
I haven't seen either since I want to read book 2 first.
ملحمة رائعة. .
Moberg grew up in Sweden hearing first-hand the stories of those who emigrated to the United States and then, after undertaking much careful research, has provided us with this insightful treasure.
In particular, Moberg communicates a vivid, historically-based image of the stresses of farm and village life in Sweden in the 1850s as well as providing an insightful look at the feelings, thoughts, and motivations of a range of characters who end up on one ship, headed for the young United States.
In this first volume, the story finishes with the sea voyage coming to an end for key characters Karl Oskar and wife Kristina, along with the other survivors of the unpleasant Atlantic crossing.
Everyone fought against poverty and famine.Karl Oskar and Kristina are fed up with their life in Småland and decide to embark on a small ship to Amerika, the mystical country where everything seems to be possible, and where there are no priests that decide what is right and wrong and you address everyone the same.
When reading about priest's house calls examinations and the way farmers treated their workers, it's difficult to realize it's the same country as today.
هذا الكتاب هو الجزء الأول من أربعة أجزاء كتبها فيلهلم موبيرغ ليرسم من خلالها قصة المهاجرين السويديين الاوائل الى القارة الأمريكية.في هذا الجزء من الرواية يستغرق موبيرغ في وصف المجتمعات الزراعية في السويد في القرن التاسع عشر ويتناول الأسباب المختلفة التي دعت أولئك الفلاحين للهجرة. ثم يحكي قصة عبورهم المحيط وما تخللها من صعاب. من الصعب تقييم العمل بشكل عام دون قراءة باقي الأجزاء لتتضح رؤية الكاتب ورسالته في هذا العمل. بشكل عام العمل ممتع وإن عابه بعض التكرار. أما الترجمة فبحاجة الى مراجعة!
This is a truely wonderful book that I am very happy to have read. Its amazing to read about what my ancestors lives might have been like (I am Swedish myself). I highly recommend every Swede and American to read this book!
Historien kretsar kring en grupp människor från Småland som ger sig ut på oceanen med Briggen Charlotta för att nå lyckan i det nya landet.
De andra passagerarna man får följa ger sig alla iväg av olika anledningar som gjorde att folk på den tiden emigrerade (mycket skickligt ihopknåpat rent historiskt!).
Efter lite mer än halva boken börjar den andra delen - "Bönder på havet." Jag var rädd att denna del skulle bli seg och för lång, eftersom den praktiskt taget endast utgår från vad som sker på båten under de två skitiga månader de är fast på den.
About 3 years ago I watched the musical "Kristina från Duvemåla" which is an adaption of this book series and now I decided that I wanted to read the books. I feel like this book was a bit dragged out but otherwise I really enjoyed it.
عندما أضع ثلاث نجمات للرواية فمعناه أنها ستحفظ مع غيرها من ما قرأت ستجلس على ذاك الرف بهدوء، لكن بوض
This is a great historical fiction of Swedish Emigrants during the mid 1800's.When I'm reading it I can picture our great-grandparents enduring similar events.
The book is not romanticized at all, very realistic including the grit and hardship, but it shows what makes our country great; gratefulness for WORK, freedom to work hard and be diligent, and importance of God, His principles, and relationship -not what man distorts and twists to his own power and greed.
I've read the first two books in THE EMIGRANTS series and was excited to see the next two availble to purchase, since these were published in 1951.
I love this book!
Min familj var visserligen i Finland under de åren som böckerna utspelar sig men jag har många jämnåriga släktingar runt om i USA som är min mormors morfars fasters barnbarnsbarn - och dylikt.
Men det visar sig snart att det kommer fler prövningar innan de sätter fötterna på den amerikanska kontinenten.Den enda riktiga erfarenhet jag hade av Utvandrarserien var ett försök att se filmen för flera år sedan tillsammans med min mor – och vi såg knappt fem minuter.
Karaktärerna är underbara och komplexa – och har beter sig otrolig bisarrt ibland (det är mest Danjel jag tänker på som är säker på att Jesus Kristus bor inom honom).
Effectively conveys what it may have felt like to be an emigrant to the United States in the 1840s.Nothing I've read has ever come close to making me "feel" the emigrant experience.
Things that struck me: - how desperately badly off were many rural farmers in Sweden;- how little information emigrants had on which to base their (often life-and-death) decisions- how incredibly dangerous was the voyage over.
Because of how hard it is to get to their destination (Minnesota) and to survive the early years, it is heartwarming when the family starts to establish more security in their lives.
This part of the book gives a real sense of what that meant to these people.
SUMMER 2011: Utvandrarna (1971) - I have caught hold of the film so a story re-visit with Max von Sydow and Liv Ullmann can't be bad.Interesting bit today in the swedish press:Researchers study how Swedish is spoken in the United States a century after the great Swedish migration to North America.Read here: http://www.thelocal.se/34324/20110613/
رواية تأخذك في التفاصيل الدقيقة لحياة الفلاحين في السويد .وبسبب التوغل الشديد في التفاصيل الحياة اليومية والحوارات بين شخصيات الرواية تجعلك تستشعر ألم ومعاناة شظف الحياة اليومي وتاثير البيئة القاسي والمجتمع الناقد وتحكم المؤسسة الكنسية . مما يجعلك تتعاطف مع أسباب الهجرة .الشطر الأخر من الرواية يحكي رحلة الهجرة في البحر والأهوال والصعوبات التي عانوا منها .وكذلك التفاصيل الدقيقة جعلتك تستشعر الألم وعمقه في شخصياتهم
Första intrycket: 2 stjärnor. Slutgiltigt betyg: 0,000000000000...1 stjärna
I read this back in the 70s in Swedish along with the other following books. Every Swede reads this suite of books. It is like impossible to not read them. Moberg's work is a classic. I wonder what I would think if I were to read them today?
Read in high school, and again two years ago. Wonderful series. I learned a lot about the old country and the hard times caused by dividing land among too many people. Also, when they move to Minnesota, they move to the area I live in.
*read for school 2,5 stars.
The loveliest of emigrant stories about the first to leave Sweden. I feel like this one is written in my DNA. Excited to continue the series.
Vi har även Nils Petter (eller vad han hette) som är gift med en hemsk kvinna han rymmer ifrån och Nils Petter berättar en story om en ond kvinna som hugger mandomen av sin man pga hans kvinnoaffärer.Ulrika, "den gamla skökan", är dessutom en glad hora, hon njuter av sitt jobb (trots att hon tvingades till att sälja sig fom 14-års ålder) och när hon blir åkeian (eller nått) (frikyrklig) och går i pension kan hon ändå inte riktigt sluta kasta lystna blickar på gifta män.
الرواية رائعة ،وليس بالغريب اذ يعتبرها الشعب السويدي رواية القرن العششرين ،هي اقرب إلى ملحمة ادبية ،كمية المشاعر و الأفكار التي تعصف بك أثناء قرائتها مذهلة ،من ناحية اخرى وبعيدا عن الأدب ،فكرة تطور السويد بهذه المدة القصيرة ،بحد ذاتها معجزة تنموية ،من بلد يلفظ مواطنيه إلى مصافي بلاد النخبة .
Skam att säga så har jag inte tidigare läst detta mästerverk. Kanske för att filmerna var så erbarmligt tråkiga. Boken är fantastisk med ett levande språk, karaktärer som man lär känna och äventyr som man tror på. Älskade den från början till slut och kastar mig över nästa del nu.
I believe I've found the series (3 more) I want to read this summer. Fascinating read of Swedish immigrants leaving their world and venturing to an unknown in America.
