https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25711.Selected_Writings
I supplemented my reading with four books ABOUT the writings of Aquinas.
And frankly, for the more strident and less learned atheists of the world (most of them), reading Aquinas would remove a lot of the duds from their arsenal of weapons frequently lobbed against religion.*A background in Aristotle would have been extremely helpful in my reading of these selections.
Aquinas thinks and writes in a highly abstract state.
A SOLID background in traditional logic would have been extremely helpful in my reading of these selections.My 15-year old seemed to come to an understanding with Aquinas more rapidly than I did.
The real question to me would be who is stupid enough to believe in angels?I've read about Aquinas from various modern authors who would talk about him, but after these 800 plus pages in his own words I have a real understanding of how he thought.
No matter what the question Aquinas has a way of explaining his view point with logic.
Spinoza in his "Ethics" takes Aristotle and gives a completely necessary universe with no free will (cause and effect), but Aquinas can't allow that in his Catholic system.
That said, there were definitely points that were interesting and even inspiring (well duh some will say...should we not imagine that one of the greatest theologians ever wrote some "interesting" things?).Aquinas is great; while reading this I picked up a book at the library that was a summary of his theology.
I do wonder if this was the wrong selection to dive into Aquinas.
As selected writings, we get excerpts from various points in his career.
At any rate, this will be a good reference book to have and maybe I will pick it up and try to read a selection here and there.
Interesting in very small doses, but extremely difficult, especially for those without a grounding in Aristotle and early theology/philosophy. I gave up after a few hundred pages.
Snoooooooze. Aristotle and Christianity aren't compatible. You lose.
Next is the 'on the contrary,' where the writer is duty-bound to state the best evidence against the initial case.
Last are the addenda, which respond point by point, in light of the response, to the elements that made up the initial argument.Some of the articles are quite profound (another random selection: "Does the goodness of the will depend on the intention of the end?" in the midst of a good question on good and evil).
I would have taken more of that and less of "Can the angel know many things simultaneously?" (article 2, Question 58, Summa theologica I).This reading was a long project--10 or 15 pages a day for several months is really the only way to digest the guy.
In an attempt to improve upon Anselm's argument for the existence of God, Aquinas seems to make the same fallacy on his own.
Anselm's Ontological Argument for the existence of God was flawed by his inclusion of the "Necessary Being".
By incorporating the condition of a "Necessary Being" to his argument for the existence of God, Anselm 'begs the question' by assuming the very thing he was trying to prove with his argument.
Thus Aquinas begs the question by assuming the very thing he is trying to prove.
Rationally speaking, God should be subject to the very conditions set forth by Aquinas.
Unless you are really into Roman Church, this will do as a guide that drives theological thinking even today (had Jesuit instructors).
I find Aquinas much like a Vienese Rococo facade - no surface left untouched.
The four proofs for the existence of God I put alongside the ancient Egyptian six favorable farts for proof of gastro-intestinal patient recovery.Still, he was (is) a massive influence within the Roman Church - so makes this a 4 star.
A need to know also makes this about as much of Aquinas one would ever want to take on.
Very pedantic and dry, like his idol Aristotle. Consists of meticulous winding arguments which are wholly invalidated by heavily flawed premises. Influential, sure, but far from inspirational or even particularly interesting.
Absolute perfection. The best one-volume collection of Aquinas available, ranging from his early lectures to selections from his major works ('Summa Contra Gentiles' and the 'Summa Theologicae'), this is an absolute must.
A wide selection of readings, perhaps too wide, in an attempt to help the reader understand the mind of Thomas Aquinas as it developed. I look forward to reading some of the works sampled––namely the two Summas--in full.
A tough read indeed, but engrossing if you can concentrate. Best to those who starve of spiritual food.
On the Teacher: February 6, 2014
not my favorite. I prefered the last section on free choice greatly to the previous ones, however, the previous three sections are necessary to the last one and are hard to read through.
Thomas Aquinas is difficult, slow reading, but he is also rewarding if one perseveres. I read a small selection from this book.
Excellent translation for this seminary graduate who enjoys and needs a little Thomas periodically.
lo regalé
Thomas Aquinas: Selected Writings (Penguin Classics) by Thomas Aquinas (1999)
There are some pretty interesting passages, but the selections are more of a survey than an in depth portrayal of his work. Such a cool guy.
Absolutely loved this book. Selected Writings was the first philosophy book I had ever purchased.
Interestingly compiled book (chronologically), and probably good for beginners.
Overrated theologian.
100 էջից ավել չդիմացա։ Ձանձրալիությունն էլ չափ ու սահման ունի։
