https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/852721.Ramage
My, my, my...What a wonderful tale of wooden ships and Iron men, cannon and tall timber, courage and honor and dashing, gallant Naval Officers riding the wind on sleek wooden zephyrs that gallop over frothing seas and race the wind.
Though the Ramage Novels may not have the following of Horatio Hornblower, there is a little something for everyone who loves high adventure and tales of dashing swashbuckling heroes in this pleasant book.
Between the covers of this book lies a tale of adventure, love, daring rescues, heroic feats, the heat of a good sea battle, and romantic clang sword on sword.
He gets pretty adorable when he's angry.A fun, straight-forward adventure story in the Age of Sail but with a hero who is simply a little too perfect to be true.
Not. And it gets even more ridiculous: Our hero doesn’t simply have throwing knives, he has a throwing knife.
He has to forget his sword in a boat in one scene for the throwing knife to come in handy: Our Hero - the pride of the Royal Navy, ladies and gentlemen.You really cannot tell me the author had him be a knife-nut for any other reason than that he thought throwing knives were cool.
Auf der Rückseite der Unionsverlag-Ausgabe lockt das Zitat der New York Times "Man kann nur jubeln: Eine klaffende Lücke wird gefüllt." zum Lesen, vor allem LiebhaberInnen von Seefahrtsromanen.
Nur bleibt für mich am Ende die Frage offen, welche klaffende Lücke damit gemeint ist.
Allerdings blieben mir die Charaktere, allen voran Leutnant Ramage, zu oberflächlich und unglaubwürdig skizziert.
Zudem war mir die ganze Geschichte zu vorhersehbar und hielt keinerlei Überraschung parat.
Ramage soll sechs Personen aus einer misslichen Lage erretten und natürlich muss sich darunter eine junge Frau befinden.
Und natürlich verlieben sie sich ineinander.
Pope's novels, though writing in the tradition of the Hornblower or Aubrey-Maturin novels, doesn't quite capture the romance nor the wholistic approach to representing the period that the other two series offer. With prose and thematic concerns more like Bernard Cornwell's novels, focused on a raw depiction of a rough and tumble world, the novels focusing on trying to capture a raw masculinity rather then to contextualize that masculinity in a more well rounded world. The first novel only moves a few short months, with little depth of character development.
Gave this 4 stars. I have read the original Ramage series ( this Ramages father) many years ago. He is a CS Forrester "Hornblower" like Character. This was a good read if you like "Horratio Hornblower" 18th century British naval escapades you will like this one.
It is a gem. Thanks to Mark, his rating made me try to read it and I loved it.
When you've exhausted C.
S. Forester and Patrick O'Brian, Dudley Pope is the one you might try next.
The Ramage series is set in the same time frame as Aubrey/Maturin and Hornblower, and the nautical writing is just as good (and sometimes just as impenetrable to us landlubbers), but Pope doesn't quite measure up either to O'Brian or Forester in plot development, writing skills, or character depth.
Still, Ramage is stirring, and for those who can't get enough of that historical period, well worth the ride--especially if you've sadly finished Forester and O'Brian and have nowhere else to turn.
The beginning of another Napoleonic era sea-faring adventure series, Pope introduces Lt. Lord Ramage. Pope tips his hat to C.S. Forester, setting Ramage in service as midshipman alongside Horatio Hornblower. Readers are therefore assumed to know and spend time comparing and contrasting the two heroes, with different talents, but laboring with similar self-doubt and drive to excel.
Really liked this.
I am a fan of historical fiction and have read several of the Master and Commander books (can't think of the actual series name right now) and I enjoyed those but I think now that I prefer the Ramage novels.
The characters were a bit more likable while still feeling authentic and the writing was very easy to follow.
One of my complaints with the other series was that it took some time and effort to understand the old language being used and this was so much easier and more enjoyable to read.
I can easily recommend this to fans of historical sea faring fiction.
Rollicking jolly story. Unfortunately it was entirely too predictable. The descriptive phrases were palpable. The emotional hooks were a little contrived. References to more modern time were inappropriate. They detracted from the scene settings. This would be an excellent book for adolescents.
Reading again 30 years on. Still a good read. Looking forward to re-reading all the other novels. Would have given a 4 1/2 rating for the book.Reading again 30 years on. Still a good read. Looking forward to re-reading all the other novels. Would have given four and a half stars if that was possible.
Unexpected Twists and TurnsAn interesting book that I began reading with some hesitation. A few pages in and I was questioning my decision to actually read it but before I put I t down, the story took a turn toward an interesting plot with a number of unexpected twists and turns to the narrative. I'm now intrigued by Ramage and what is next in store for him.
Fabulous. I read this series years ago and I'm pleased to be revisiting it. Great stories, characters one can connect with and super fun. Marvellous books to curl up with and escape into another era.
I found the book extremely dry to start off, but once it gets going its pretty good. There's also quite a bit of dialogue, both internal and external, which sometimes sidetracks the movement and flow of the book. Overall though, I enjoyed this seaworthy tale :)
Not my cup of tea. Struggled to skim to the end of the book. Luckily I got the entire 18-book set at a library booksale, so I don't feel guilty about giving them away. Who out there wants them?
This is actually a historical romance, although at first it just seems like naval fighting! I think this would be good to read to learn nautical terms.
It was ok...2.5 stars. Too much time spent ashore for my tastes. I'm going to keep this series in mind but won't continue with it for now. Too many interesting books to read.
Ramage is a likeable character!, the story line is decent, and the writing fluid. Pope knew his way around a ship in an understated but very convincing manner. I look forward to reading the second book.
For people who like naval stories that contain a lot of detail about ships rigging, and sea battle strategies. Not as good as the Horatio Hornblower series.
If you're a fan of Horatio Hornblower by CS Forester, you definitely want to read this.
This first book of the Ramage series by Dudley Pope opens with exciting action on the first page and continues right on until the last (319th) page.
Ramage succeeds in getting the remaining unwounded crew off the ship, leaving the wounded to surrender the sinking ship and get medical care from the French.
All of this leads to a court martial in which Ramage is accused of losing his ship (the Sibella) and also of cowardice during his attempt to rescue the Italian emigres.
All in all, this is an excellent book - a good start to the Ramage series,
Pope doesn't pussyfoot around with the opening - we meet the hero in the heat of battle, when the Captain, First, and Second Lieutenants have all been killed and he must assume command of the crippled Sibella.
Ramage decides to let the wounded remain on the vessel and formally surrender, while the rest of the crew escapes in lifeboats.
Ramage takes the deceased captain's orders and discovers their mission was to rescue Italian nobles who resist the French.
Of course love affairs are inevitably part of naval fiction, but it takes up too many pages of Ramage.
Why has this sat on my shelf for months not being read??
It's a long time since I've been that gripped I've read a book in under 24hours.
The plot of the story is the main driver in this book and it keeps you moving.Ramage is the normal self-deprecating individual preoccupied with his own faults rather than his amazing facilities.
The family history adds an interesting amount of politics to the whole episode and provides some personal enemies who are clearly going to keep recurring through the series.
Need to find the missing books from the series - most importantly the next one!!
Dudley Pope (1925-1997) was a writer of nautical fiction.
Apparently Forester encouraged Pope to write fiction.
Pope had written several non-fiction books about naval history.
The Captain of the HMS Sibella was ordered to rescue some Italian Nobles.
Ramage continues the assignment after HMS Sibella was sunk and all officers except him are dead.
There is so much suspense and action in the book but Pope does work in some humor and a romance.
The beautiful Italian Marquesa Ramage rescued, turned out it was with her family he lived when he was a child.
Pope gives the game away when he actually includes a reference to Horatio Hornblower in the first of his Lord Ramage novels: if you liked Hornblower, you'll probably like Ramage, because it's about a plucky guy on a boat who kills a lot of Napoleonic French.The difference is that Ramage is more of a standard "action hero" than Hornblower.
So, naturally, Ramage has to have a lot more in it to be interesting, because otherwise Ramage is just a lucky guy.
Pope delivers, endearing me to him with an extended court-martial sequence that had the attorney in me loving every minute (not as good as Caine Mutiny, but what is?).
Dudley Popen "Merisankari" (Tammi, 1966) on historiallinen meriromaani Napoleonin sotien vuosilta.
Kijan päähenkilö on Nicholas Ramage, jonka tehtävänä on pelastaa joukko italialaisia aatelisia joutumasta ranskalaisten sotilaiden käsiin.
Vauhdikkaat käänteet seuraavat toisiaan ja Ramage asettaa itsensä alttiiksi paitsi ranskalaisten luodeille, myös brittiläiselle merisotaoikeudelle ja kauniille kreivitär Giannalle."Merisankarin" lähin vertailukohta voisi löytyä C.S. Foresterin meriromaaneista, joiden päähenkilöön Hornbloweriin myös viitataan kujeillen pariin otteeseen, aivan kuin tämä olisi aito historiallinen henkilö kuin kirjassa vilahtavat Horatio Nelson tai John Jervis.
Aivan samalle tasolle kirja ei kuitenkaan yllä.
Ei tämä huono romaani ollut, mutta ei nyt mitenkään erityisen mieleenpainuvakaan.
Suomennoksesta pisti silmään pari juttua, joista eritoten "Kylpyhuoneen ritarikunta" hymyilytti.
I downloaded this book onto my Kindle app for free from Amazon (special deal that was going on) and figured I would give it a try, I mean it was free after all.
The only thing that some people wouldn't like would be that there are a LOT of descriptions about ships and the rigging and what was happening with all of that.
I simply skimmed over those parts and was fine, so no complaint from me.This is the first in the series, and I don't know if I'm willing to buy the rest (I'm stingy when it comes to book buying), but I will definitely look for it at the library.
First in a series of 18 books about a British Lieutenant and then Captain at the time of Lord Nelson, this is an enjoyable book (and series) about naval life at the turn of the Nineteenth Century.
Although perhaps the Aubrey/Maturin series is better written, that series runs off on tangents about commercial enterprises gone bad, and the intrigues of women at that time, which I found to be tedious.
This is more faithful to the Hornblower genre, as is Alexander Kent's Bolitho series.
I think on balance, I prefer the Bolitho series, then Hornblower and Ramage in a tie, then O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin series.
Set in the British Navy during the Napoleonic Wars, this is a novel much like others of that genre--or like Temeraire without dragons.
The main character is a plucky young man, thrust into command despite the shame hanging over his family name.
There are sea battles and small boats, an alluring foreign noblewoman, political wrangling and desperate missions.
It's not really my sort of thing--too much naval jargon and maneuvering without enough wit.
I bought this and its two sequels for my dad, but he died with them still in the TBR stack.
If you're local and would be interested in having them, let me know.
This tale of naval heroism is not the best but it is by no means the worst.Ramage is left in command of a sinking ship when all the senior officers are killed in action with the French.
Having abandoned his ship he knows that he must carry out the orders if he wants to avoid a court martial.
Ramage rescues the Marchesa di Volterr from the Italian coast and must stand trail for the loss of the Sibella and on a charge of cowardice.
I liked Ramage as a character, though I did find there was too much time spent on the romance between him and the Marchessa.
