https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/479311.Dragons_in_the_Waters
And the story really dragged for me.I am re-reading many of Madeleine L'Engle's books, books that I adored as a child and that inspired me in so many ways–to be a writer, among them.
In L'Engle's world, at least the world she wrote about for young people, there are idealized parents and families; music, books, poetry, and theater are all high-brow and all immensely, deeply important; and there is a unique blend of faith, science, and a kind of magic which is most like the mysterium tremendums.
I find myself more at home with other fantasy writers, but there will always be part of me that longs for the world that L'Engle tried so hard to bring into being with her books.
More importantly, the characters that make it part of a series weren't really utilized that well.
What was interesting was that this book links (in a tiny but very intentional way) to The Other Side Of The Sun which I wouldn't have thought had any connections to L'Engle's other series.
Also, the fact that it's a "vacation" tale with only two of the O'Keefe kids and their occasionally-present father in this story also makes it kind of a let down as compared to other L'Engle books.
Dragons in the Waters is a murder mystery an environmental debacle, historical fiction, and a bit of fantasy thrown in. I have truly grown to love two side characters that can be found elsewhere in L'Engle's books: Mr. Theo and Canon Tallis, and I hope I find them in a couple of the books that I haven't read yet.
A Simon protagonist? Yes, please! I also liked this book’s return to middle school/teen land (as opposed to college-age Adam navigating adulthood in Arm of the Starfish) and its many similarities to a Swiftly Titling Planet (family names/feuds, dreams, smells). In addition, Poly finally became a round, real character to me.
Action-mystery-fantasy about a new character Simon on a freight ship to Latin America. Poly and her brother Charles are also there, but the story isn't really about them.
This was a fun reread for me, the last time reading it back in my early teens - it’s the same copy I bought at WaldenBooks back in ‘82 or so.
This still holds up well - she definitely never wrote down to the reading level, which says it’s 6.5 on the copyright page.
Anyway, the story is more than a bit implausible and the young teen characters very sophisticated and adult, but overall it’s enjoyable and engaging and takes you out of the everyday, though not in the same way A Wrinkle in Time does.
Definitely consider having a look at this or any of L’Engle’s titles for young adults.
The Poly of "Dragons" feels like a completely different character than the Poly of "Lotus." Maybe she's matured quite a lot in the intervening 2 years, but it was a bit hard to connect the two.
(And unsurprisingly, the "kids caught in crime & capers" aspect of this one is mirrored in The Arm of the Starfish.) The recurrent themes get a little monotonous as an adult, but I still appreciate L'Engle's talent in crafting a story with (mostly) fully fleshed-out characters, atypical (for YA literature, at least in my experience) plots, and believable world-building.
Wasn't L'Engle's husband a soap actor? This story rolled over the waves with action-reaction from start to finish. It was a fun read, with all the drama and half the romance of the soaps.L'Engle is always impressive with her eye for details and timeless relativity. You know that she's traveled on cargo ships and encountered South American policemen.It was strange to read this after also reading (ack! what was the title? an Austin story... the daughter travels to Antarctica). There were so many similarities. Did L'Engle plagiarize herself?
So much conversation, so little action. L'Engle obviously reversed the common advice to writers of "Show, don't tell." An incredibly dull read not much saved by the characters.
I just...w hat?I'm so confused.How can this be the same person who wrote A Wrinkle in Time? How can these characters be connected to A Wrinkle in Time?
So, I'm continue on with the series....because I didn't realize that Madeleine L'Engle that she a dozen books that I haven't read.
I feel that L'Engle didn't plan out this series, just decided to write another book using some characters tangentially related to a Wrinkle in Time.
Having such abilities were able to blend in with the Wrinkle in Time series because it's science fantasy, but in this series it's real time.
Then Disney has redone a Wrinkle in Time, a big production with Oprah starring as Mrs. Which.
It's basically a locked-room murder mystery on a boat that includes science, history, religion, extra-sensory understanding, smuggling, jungle survival, capitalist environmental destruction, a respect for different cultures, and the phrase "preprandial libations." And this funny little interaction:"The Orion carries almost everything, doesn't she, Captain?""We are an all-purpose ship.""You know that list of cargo on the table in the salon?""For the information of the passengers.
What are the reefers, Captain?" Poly was simply curious.
She did not think for a moment that the little ship was carrying marijuana.The captain looked at her in surprise.
"Reeferigerators, Miss Poly.
Thirteen-year-old Simon Renier is invited to take a trip by freighter with his middle aged cousin Forsyth Phair.
Cousin Forsyth bought a family heirloom from Simon's aunt, a portrait of his ancestor Simon Bolivar.
His stated plan was to its rightful place in a Venezuelan museum, but Cousin Forsyth is found murdered and the portrait stolen!Simon realizes that he is in danger as well.
This time we got to know not just Poly (don't call her Polyhymnia or she might hurt you) but her younger brother Charles as well.
They are just the right age to become bosom buddies with Simon, and I loved how they got to know each other.
Simon is accompanying his uncle to deliver a portrait to Venezuela.
On the ship he meets Poly and Charles.
The uncle is not who he seems.All the problems are rooted in the past and a promise broken by an ancestor of Simon's.
This triggered an ancient feud Simon knows nothing of.Back home Simon's Aunt Leonis is uncovering the past in a set of journals and letters written by this ancestor.
On board ship the uncle is murdered.
Simon is caught in the middle along with his friends Poly and Charles.The book has a comfortable pace throughout.
Poly O'Keefe is fourteen; she and her brother Charles are on a ship on its way to Venezuela with their father.
There's danger, intrigue, a shocking incident mid-way through the book and a great deal of suspicion.
It's partly character-based, and there's a lot of interesting interaction between these people and other passengers and staff on the ship.
There's quite a complex backstory and motive for what happens, and although some of that went a tad over my head, I enjoyed the book and found it hard to put down.
Probably best read after 'The Arm of the Starfish', which is first in the O'Keefe series.
I think I know why I had a hard time following this book when I first read it at 15.
L'Engle always wrote UP to her readers, her stuff was always a challenge, I'd get the story but not the meaning, what she had to say,what she was teaching.
L'Engle dips back into Simon's memories from time to time but I don't think it detracts from the story.
Truly a good book with a heartwarming ending as Simon finds a new place to be in a world with changes.
I did not dislike the book.
The story felt somewhat unfocused though, and the solution to the mystery, while it's not implausible...hard to say how much it felt like the rest of the book guided me to that point.
Some of the characters weren't given enough time to develop, and some of the characters given close attention early, faded out a bit in the final third.
Also, the mystery has multiple layers, but I'm not sure how well the book accomplishes what it's trying to by adding those extra layers.It was an ok read.
Just didn't feel like everything fit together as well as it could have.
I guess I just struggle with this author's style and topics. It was interesting and I will probably read more of this author because it's not boring. I'm just confused by things sometimes. I guess I'm pretty indifferent.
I have always loved L'Engle's ability to mingle faith and science, and to write about faith in a way that's free of fundamentalism but still faithful, and entertaining. L'Engle was simply one of the mentally healthiest people to ever write. To read her is to grow in mental health.
Madeleine L'Engle is one of my all time favorite authors. Both her characters and storylines are thoughtful, well written and intriguing. She writes books that I can read again and again. Whilst this particular novel is not one of my absolute favorites and I do quite like it.
Yet another wonderful read.
Such a lovely adventure! I definitely am glad I found L'Engle's other works!
The beginning just barely chugged along, but the second half was fan-freaking-tastic!!!
My 12yo brought this book home from school as they no longer needed it for their library. It was a fun airplane read and kept me interested.
Not what I expected. The first three books of this series was fun to read. "The Arm of The Starfish" and this one were boring.
This is an excellent mystery and Madeleine L’Engle utilizes her unique ability to transcend time and play with our notions of time, space, right, wrong, primitive, and advanced.
Pro: engaging writing as usual, Aunt Leonis is exactly my cup of tea, O'KeefesCon: HOLY SHIT, THE RACISM
I haven't re-read this book since high school, and I think it still holds up.
Because I've been reading so many of her books in swift succession, this one reminded me A LOT of Troubling a Star, so much so that I wondered if they were written close together in time.
But, no, almost 20 years elapsed between the writing of Dragons in the Waters and Troubling a Star.
Poly is younger in this book than Vicky is in the other, so the emotional aspect is less of a thing here.
At the end it seems like Polly is the only one even remotely appalled at Simon’s decision to stay at the lake with the Quiztanos, cementing my impression of her as usually the only logical person in the O’Keefe stories (though her behavior in A House Like a Lotus sometimes leaves a bit to be desired) and as one of my favorite characters in L’Engle’s books.
L’Engle’s stories will always be a part of me, as they have been since I read A Wrinkle in Time when I was 12; I’ll always carry around Meg and Calvin and Vicky and Adam and Polly, and rereading these books have taught me about human fallibility and how even the best-seeming people are still flawed.
By the time the ship reaches port, someone will have tried to kill Simon, and Cousin Forsyth himself will be dead.In some ways, this book reads like a Nancy Drew Mystery.
I liked many of the characters in this book - especially Simon and Aunt Leonis - but the story goes in so many directions, we never end up at a destination.
Those reading the Murry/O’Keefe/Austin books in publication order, as I am, might not want to miss it, but on its own, I think Dragons in the Waters is kind of a disappointment for mystery readers and science fiction readers because it never fully becomes either one.
