https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36381085-the-summer-wives
Three timelines which take place during the summer months over the course of 40 years divide the narrative.
While there are multiple characters and storylines, the main focus is on film actress Miranda Thomas, the stepdaughter of infamous islander Hugh Fisher.
The novel begins In 1969 when Miranda returns to her family’s crumbling estate on elite Winthrop Island.
It’s been 18 years since Miranda fled the island to build a new life.
I also found the ending to be overly dramatic and rushed.What I enjoyed most was reading about Winthrop island; Williams does a beautiful job of bringing the island to life.
Here, it is a summer enclave on Long Island Sound, where the wealthy come to their summer mansions, their country club, their parties.
Different timelines, one from the past, one in the present, and one when Miranda returns to the island as an adult.
I am not a fan though, of soap opera type novels, and this one novel would make a great one.
Nor am I am fan of dramatic, and the ending of this book contains plenty.
So, in essence, a lighter change of pace read, and z great book to take to the beach or on vacation.
Miranda has come back after eighteen years to the island where she has spent every summer since her mother married into the prestigious Fisher family.
When her mother married Hugh Fisher after her father was killed in WWII, she is introduced to that life and also sees how the year-round residents who fish and work as domestics live.THE SUMMER WIVES goes back and forth from 1930 to 1951 and then to 1969.
We learn that most of the Winthrop Island families may have had money, but most of them are not happy.THE SUMMER WIVES has a great setting, good story line, and has characters with problems and secrets both past and present.
This island is a closed community where everyone knows each other and their secrets, and Miranda is visibly nervous to go back and reveal herself.
The closed and protective community of this island is what drives the plot forward, and I wasn’t buying into it.
Many of the characters’ decisions and behaviour were irrational, and combined with a pretty predictable family drama that I feel like I’ve read many times over, I felt a constant disconnect to both the characters and the plot.
If you are new to family dramas and secrets unfolding over 400 pages, this book might be interesting.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/2.5 StarsBefore I begin, let me say that this is not a book that normally falls into my wheelhouse when it comes to my “must reads.” So how did I end up with it? Well, there are several reasons. To begin with, where I live . . . .  Also, along with my favorite time of year of bulky sweaters that hide my fat, comes my arch nemesis of basic bitches . . . .  *shudder*So I figured I might as well read as many “summery” things as possible b
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/2.5 StarsBefore I begin, let me say that this is not a book that normally falls into my wheelhouse when it comes to my “must reads.” So how did I end up with it?
And finally, despite the fact that the never-ending blurb there was no chance I was ever going to read probably laid out the entire story to me, in my mind I was convinced that I was getting ready to experience .
(And yes I realize I should have just re-read fucking Peyton Place I know, but whatever.
I guess in the most generic way possible this was a teensie bit Peyton Place with a splash of Middlesex.
4.5 stars Thanks to BookBrowse and William Morrow for allowing me to read and review this ARC.
One of her first acquaintances on the Island was the son of the light house keeper, Joseph, one of the poorer working year-round residents.
As the summer draws to a close Miranda is banished from the Island and Joseph is imprisoned for murder.
Eighteen years later Miranda returns to the Island, still being dismissed by the social elite.
Joseph has escaped from prison - is he back at the Island?
Miranda wants to reignite the love she had for Joseph and prove his innocence.
Miranda soon realizes there are two types of people on the island, the wealthy who come to the island to stay in their vacation homes and dine at the country club, and the working class make ends meet by catering to the rich.
Before summer's end, Miranda's path changes course and she leaves the island due to tragic circumstances.
I really enjoyed seeing the people of the island through the perspectives of Miranda and Bianca.
The setting of Winthrop Island and how the rich and working class interacted were strong assets and made the book all the more enjoyable.

Thanks to TLC Book Tours and William Morrow Books for this free review copy!.Set on an exclusive island of elite wealth in Long Island Sound, THE SUMMER WIVES bounces between 1930, 1951 and 1969.
Williams masterfully weaves these storylines and events together while always maintaining a taut tone of romance and suspense revolving around two very different families on the island - one year-round Portuguese family and one of the wealthy New England summer clans..There is really something for most readers in this tale ~ forbidden love warring with dutiful marriage, a movie star, mystery, murder and a gorgeous Atlantic coastal setting.
The Summer Wives was another book by the wonderful Beatriz Williams. She can tell a story unlike anyone else and I felt like I was right back there in time! I did find myself getting confused because of so many different characters and all the different time periods and because of that I didn’t finish this book. It was just dragging too much for me. I’m very disappointed in this one. I know I’m in the minority for not loving this one.
On the other hand, working class like Portuguese fisherman, stuff who serve in the summer houses, etc.The book opens with Miranda stepping foot on the island in 1969, and after that we go back and forth in time to try to understand what really happened to draw her away for so long.I really enjoyed this slow burning mystery.
Its content is rich with class dynamics, different characters, murder mystery, and romance.
Plus, it was a bit difficult to understand the characters and time frames at the beginning of the book.
So it's got that going for it.The conflict is also well thought out.
the working class plays out well.The negatives: the plot kind of drags.
I am honestly kind of tired of reading books where the narrative isn't linear.
And to be honest I wasn't 100 percent sure what the plot was until the last 10 percent of the book.Also, the book is a bit soapier than I would have liked.
I'm not sure what I was expecting but with a few of the plot's twists and turns I could hear the organ chords, "Dun Dun DUN!"Anyway, I don't know if I'd recommend.
There are lots of things I'd rather read.
This could be my favorite book of 2018 no matter what I read moving forward.
This is the book you recommend to a friend when they say to you, " I need a good page turner".
It captures you from page one and never lets you down.
Of course until you finish the book and you want to read more.
I do advise readers to pay attention to every character no matter how insignificant they seem.
Every character has a part to play and you will understand as you move through the pages.
Someone was wrongly accused of murder! And then someone else was impregnated out of wedlock! And then someone else set fire to a building! Also something about a lighthouse! AND EVERYONE INVOLVED WAS INCREDIBLY ATTRACTIVE!
Beatriz Williams is back with another perfect summer read.Miranda Schuyler arrives on Winthrop Island in 1951 with her mother, who is about to marry Hugh Fisher.
She is drawn in to a world of high class parties and money, something she knows nothing about.
She ends up falling for Joseph Vargas, a fishermen on the island.
This is not acceptable as there is a clear distinction between those who live on the island and those who simply spend their summers there.Almost 20 years later, Miranda returns to the island to try and solve unanswered questions and chase away old ghosts.
I truly enjoyed this summer read.
Some reasons for 3 stars:- Many parts were predictable. -I would have like a chart of all the families names. It would not ruin a surprise-The ending I did not like.-However, I did like the time period.
Thank you so much to TLC Book Tours and William Morrow Books for this gorgeous free copy of THE SUMMER WIVES by Beatriz Williams - all opinions are my own.This is my second Beatriz Williams novel and it was everything I hoped it would be: a story with mystery, murder, drama, and romance, told in alternating time periods, spanning decades with two narratives that only Williams can execute so flawlessly.
Before summer’s end, tragedy strikes and Miranda leaves the island for nearly two decades before she returns.This story revolves around several characters, but every one of them does have a distinct purpose, so it’s more enjoyable not to rush it.
The novel starts with an intriguing murder mystery and proceeds to take you through a compelling, thoughtful story with fantastic and interesting characters.
What I love about Beatriz Williams books are how they are all connected to the Schuyler family, one way or another.
Also, I'm dying to read the upcoming book: The Wicked Redhead!THE SUMMER WIVES have three different storylines, first, we have the 30s with Bianca Medeiro.
However, Bianca's story is a vital part of the story.One thing I truly love about THE SUMMER WIVES are all the characters.
Every time I finish a book is it with a bit of sadness because I just love the characters.
This is why I love it when a Schuyler pops up in another book.
I present to you The Summer Wives, a fantastic page-turner set on a New England island where the very privileged live and play.
It’s perfect.It’s 1951 on Winthrop Island and Miranda Schulyer has returned from boarding school to spend the summer at her new stepfather’s home.
Eighteen years later, now a star of stage and screen, Miranda returns to the island to face the truth of what happened all those years ago.The story is engrossing and Williams’ writing is luxurious.
And there’s something delightful about reading a book set in a time when all the answers can’t immediately be found on someone’s phone.
This was the perfect read for lounging in a hammock and escaping the world.
I mean, you never do suspect what inconsequential event will change the course of your life.Miranda Schuyler visits Winthrop Island for her mother’s wedding to Hugh Fisher.
Miranda soon learns that Winthrop Island consists of the upper crust who come in the summer months and the poor Portuguese working class who are year-round inhabitants.
Nobody else matters.Miranda is attracted to Joseph Vargas, a lobster fisherman who works with his father and lives in the Lighthouse.
You can’t have it back.Miranda, now a well-known actress, returns 18 years later and we slowly learn why she stayed away for so long.
Will Miranda and Joseph reunite?
Miranda has come back after eighteen years to the island where she has spent every summer since her mother married into the prestigious Fisher family.
When her mother married Hugh Fisher after her father was killed in WWII, she is introduced to that life and also sees how the year-round residents who fish and work as domestics live.THE SUMMER WIVES goes back and forth from 1930 to 1951 and then to 1969.
The 1930’s didn’t make sense to me how it fit in, but as I kept reading, I found out that it kept a secret and held a BIG surprise.Ms. Williams has written another book that will hold your interest but has a bit of confusing story line with all the back and forth.
Another stunner by Beatriz Williams. It will probably go down as among my favorites of hers.
I am a die-hard fan of Beatriz Williams!
I've read all of her books and love them all.
I did get a little confused at times on who was who and had to go back and re-read some parts.
In the end it did all become clear and I absolutely loved the intensity of the scene with Joseph and the Coast Guard!
I would like to say (in the hopes that Ms. Williams reads this some day) that a list of characters would be helpful to me personally.
And I would also love a family tree of the Schuyler family to be printed in the books!
This had the feel of a daytime soap opera. I’m not a fan of those, so maybe that’s why this didn’t work for me. Additionally, I didn’t feel convinced of the love affairs of the various characters, who all seemed like stereotypes. I thought the writing was ok, but the narration on the audiobook was so-so.
With a sophisticated scalpel, Beatriz Williams dissects long-held passion, prejudice, and mistrust lurking in an insular (did I mention the book takes place on an island?) community with secrets that go back for generations. Pour yourself a gin and tonic, and don’t rush this ravishing novel by New England storytelling’s reigning queen. Set in the 50s and 60s, THE SUMMER WIVES offers profound relevance for today’s times, As we ask ourselves, who belongs here and who doesn’t?
I received my copy free through Goodreads Giveaways.An enjoyable read with a few twists in the plot.
First half of book is boring. The second half has a lot of profanity and is not suitable for Christian readers or teens and children. I do not recommend this book to anybody.

While the characters aren't overwhelmingly complex and the plot becomes a bit too soap opera-esque toward the end, Williams has mastered the art of creating a scene -- and a distinct feeling that accompanies it -- throughout these pages.
Always my gaze searches the horizon, searching for a particular sail..." Her mastery of the 'mise en scene' will make you feel as if you're on the Long Island Sound, beneath the summer sun, gazing at the lighthouse from the shore...This is a delightful, page-turning summer read that will keep you engaged until the end.
The Summer Wives is Beatriz Williams best book so far!! I absolutely loved it!
