https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22875451-the-royal-we
This is 100 percent Kate Middleton fan fiction and I have absolutely no problem with that. The authors' blog is great; so is this.
Finally, an English chap appears, apologizes for making her wait--he was dozing on the watch--and helping Bex with her bags, takes her to her room.On the way, she cracks wise about syphilis and crazy amongst the royals.He laughs, drops her off at her new digs, invites her down for a drink with the rest of the house when she's settled, and strolls away.
Except Kate is an American named Bex, Harry is Freddie, Pippa is Bex's twin sister Lacey, and William is Nicholas.
I don't know how much of this art is imitating life, but there's enough similarity to make the reading uncomfortably voyeuristic .
Sometimes I just want some YA fantasy or fluffy chick-lit; you know what I'm saying?So I looked past this book's appearance (as an obvious William & Kate fanfic) to the positive reviews and all the good things this could possibly be - hilarious, silly, enjoyable, Bridget Jones/Lou Clark-style fun.
I'm not going to judge this book for basically being a retelling of the William/Kate romance with Rebecca instead being an American student at Oxford.
Literally the only selling point this book as is that it offers lighthearted entertainment and cute romancing, but damn, these characters are so bland.
4.5 stars. Review originally posted at Mostly YA Lit Real talk: This book is basically thinly disguised Wills and Kate fanfiction - and I AM OKAY WITH THAT.  But seriously, though, The Royal We is written by Heather Cocks and Jessica Morgan, better known as the "Fug Girls" of the celebrity fashion website Go Fug Yourself. If you've read their site at all,  you know their penchant for snark, wit and hilarity, and they've infused their book and their protagonist, Rebecca "Bex" Porter with those ch
It's a testament to Cocks and Morgan's skill at writing that I savoured every romantic part with Nick, but even when he wasn't around, I was totally focused on seeing Bex's journey through.Because that's what this book is about, ultimately.
The discussion in The Royal We of the paparazzi - who are brutal to Bex even after she and Nick had broken up - is probably the part that rings truest to me - because I remember when it happened to Will and Kate.
I just really, really can't bring myself to take this book seriously.
*blush*ANYWAY, while reading this book, I...had dreams about marrying/snogging/shagging a prince.Ew, no.
I have zero interest in the royal family, ZERO.As I said, there's about a billion reasons I wouldn't enjoy this book.Bex (Rebecca) is an Iowan who goes to Oxford on a study-abroad program and is thrust into Prince Nick's life because of it, being assigned to his dorm floor.
Then at 56%, Cocks & Morgan just spring this (completely weird) idea on us that Lacey is somehow the "lesser" sister to Bex and it just makes no fucking sense.- Everyone in the book is extremely selfish, self-centered, and spoiled.
2.5 stars. There were some genuinely great moments in this book. The scenes with just Bex and Nick interacting were funny and adorable and I was really into them. However...I know this book is supposed to be "inspired" by Prince William and Kate Middleton, but this is full stop RPF with a name change. The arc and trajectory of their relationship is virtually the same. It made a lot of this book seem plodding as we basically know what happens and why already. I'm a weirdo and own the William &amp
I'm a weirdo and own the William & Kate lifetime movie, and at times reading this felt EXACTLY like watching that movie.This book could have been a shorter, tighter, better story without all the nonsense asides based on real royal scandals.
I don't need her to sit down and evaluate with a list of pros and cons, but the difficulties of what a relationship like this might mean should flit across her mind at least once or twice in a meaningful way before taking this step.We spend almost the rest of the book dealing with how dumb it was that she didn't consider these issues.
But this book captures almost eight years of their relationship, and you really get to know Nick, Bex, and their funny, charming group of friends.
Spoilers abound ahead!(view spoiler)[I have two main problems with the end of the book: (1) I could have done without the subplot of the friend turning traitor on Bex, and (2) I thought the Freddie/Bex subplot came out of nowhere and was shoehorned in just to add some drama.
I am a big fan of the royals (particularly Kate), and I unabashedly watch and read pretty much anything about them that I can get my hands on- cheesy, somber, fact, fiction, probably-fiction, and otherwise.
When the smart and funny authors (the ladies behind the Go Fug Yourself blog) offered the first 7 chapters of their new book for free on Amazon, I dove right in and was immediately hooked.
Well done.Now when is the movie coming out?Edited to add: In the interest of full disclosure, I received a free copy of this book from the authors.
Guysssssss this was really, REALLY cute. Like, so cute. I'm only docking a star bc it did feel a little longer than it needed to be, but it was still just so great. What a way to start my week!
BEST cutesy romance novel I've read in a long time.Read the full review @ A Perfection Called BooksThere are few books that truly have the power to encompass my every-waking thoughts.
Rebecca, informally known as Bex, is loads of fun and a great protagonist to follow the story through.I've always loved stories about royalty, and this book provides a hilarious account of someone on the Inside sharing the trade secrets.
This isn't just a story about love, it's a story about life and friendship.The romance in this book is the flawed perfection that I hope to find in life.
Yes, you have your prince and the love of your life, but you're giving up your entire identity, your nationality just for a title.
I was waiting patiently for Nick to man up the entire time.
The royal family closely resembles Britain's and in a way I strongly imagined them as these characters.I just have to say how dragged out and extended the story is.
It's very very slow so you'll have to patient for anything to happiness.
I enjoyed "The Royal We" and I had fun reading about an American falling in love with Britain's prince.
This lack of juiciness is especially surprising since this book was written by the bloggers from Go Fug Yourself.William and Kate are played here by Nick and Bex. Instead of being an upper-middle class British girl, Bex is an upper-middle class American girl.
Is there any American college girl, even one who only has a passing knowledge of the British monarchy, who would take the time to investigate the Oxford student exchange program, move to England, but then have no clue that the heir to the throne was one of her classmates?Let’s get back to Kate Middleton for a minute.
I love the (British) Royal Family.
Not only I found this novel dull because of the silly writing style (two people were needed to write it??) but in any sense possible.
It's boring and borderline disrespectful, when you think that these are caricatures of real life people, who often represent a country in front of the entire world and that are involved in charities and social issues.
I think the authors were in good faith when they wrote this novel, absolutely.
I loved Bex and Nick together but this book made me question whether being with him was worth it for Bex: the expectations, the judgment, the ceremony, the never having a normal life.
The Royal We is an AMAZING read, one I would highly recommend to all contemporary romance fans, New Adult fans (after all, this book is truly about growing up and finding yourself, making those tough decisions), and to fans of books about royalty and/or celebs.

The reason I did is because I was expecting two authors who write this blog and title it the way they did to have more witty charm infused into this book.
I started reading it in between television commercials.
Which I was hoping that this book would be so funny that I would lose focus on the show I was watching and read just this book.
Although I found Bex to be down to earth in a good way and Nick to be every part of a gentleman and not snobbiness, the story moved very slowly.

I've been a long-time fan of Heather and Jessica's work on their hilarious website, Go Fug Yourself, so I was certainly EAGER to enjoy this book, but I don't know that I expected to be serenading with with "Just What I Needed" by The Cars at barely four pages in.
AND YET.I, along with a huge number of my smart female friends, have an insatiable appetite for books like this one: Funny love stories with distinct, well-rounded characters, a little wish fulfillment with the atmosphere, but emotional journeys that we recognize and feel real.
The love story's impediments are genuine and feel like ones even smart, emotionally stable characters could easily make in such a nightmare situation.
Thus a book that is a very fictionalized account of Will & Kate's romance seemed like a great idea.You will definitely recognize the Royals in this fictional story.
But where we depart from reality is that instead of a mere commoner our Heir instead falls for an American, Rebecca Porter, Bex. The book explains how they hid their relationship, how making it public actually made things worse and how they reunited, got engaged etc.
And I can't really explain what I didn't like but the story just didn't capture my attention.
But can everyone remain friends when royalty is so demanding?
What if it leads to more?Dislikes:This book was overly wordy at some points.
It made it seem like a chore to get thru some parts of the book.
Then some of the plot lines were left with some loose ends.Likes:I thoroughly enjoyed the characters as time went on.
Bex was really relate-able and so was the connection she had with her sister.
Though I have no siblings of my own I really thought I felt what it was like in this book.
This book can be overly long but the story was very cute.
On the other hand, Lacey totally stressed me out … probably as much as she did Nick & Bex and I really found myself NOT sympathizing with her about a single thing and kind of wanted her to stop with the “woe is me” attitude and go back to the US.
This book was filled with drama yes, but there are sweet and swoony moments as well, and I completely love the banter and relationship development between Bex & Nick.
Even if the real-life royals aren’t your thing, I think you’ll find this one intriguing and hard to put down once you start reading!
Going in to this book I had NO idea how much I was going to enjoy it. To start off: if you hate the cliche romance novels, you'll hate this. It's not some classic piece of literature, but it's fun and I am totally okay with reading things purely for enjoyment. This would be THE perfect summer vacation read. It's quick, it's cute, and I loved it. The characters, the plot line, and the novel itself were so good I read this book in about a day! I would highly recommend it!
In The Royal We, American Bex goes on a semester abroad to Oxford, and falls in love with the heir to the British throne, Prince Nicholas.
The book covers the space of about 5 or so years, and we go through many phases of love: friends yearning for one another; a secret, hidden romance; the ansgsty break up and time apart; and finally, the public engagement, and turning Bex into a proper royal.
The Duke and Duchess are two of my favourite royals, and I sort of felt like this book made a mockery of them.
It was entertaining to read all of the similarities between Bex/Nick and William/Kate, and I was able to pick up on it despite only knowing a little about their relationship.
I was also expecting it to be pretty lighthearted, but was very surprised to see that the book was very realistic about all the pressures and difficulties of becoming a royal and suddenly being thrust into the spotlight.
My favorite part of the book would probably be the relationship between Bex and Nick, as well as Freddie.
This book did not need to be 464 pages, and that often led to unnecessary drama or other things.
Loved, loved LOVED IT.
4.5Five Reasons You Should Read The Royal We YOU HAVE A SECRET (OR NO-SO SECRET) INTEREST IN THE ROYAL FAMILYI don’t think anyone has tried to deny that the The Royal We‘s central romance is based on that of Prince William and Kate Middleton, so if you can’t help but listen whenever you hear bits about the couple—or their siblings—this is for you.YOU CAN’T GET ENOUGH OF GO FUG YOURSELFAuthors Heather Cocks and Jessica Morgan are the brains behind Go Fug Yourself, a fashion and gossip blog I’ve been reading so long it’s hard to imagine life before its existence.
As readers, we get to know Bex better than any of the other characters, except perhaps for her twin sister, Lacey, and the novel becomes more an examination of what it means to be a young woman in extraordinary conditions, a woman who wants to maintain her identity while still uniting herself in marriage to a strong man.Isn’t this a very contemporary and relatable situation to be in?
I found myself really liking Bex and really sympathizing with her, which is not something I can say is true of most romance novel heroines I encounter.Bex’s relationship with her twin sister Lacey is also very well-articulated, and the novel is in many ways more about this unique family dynamic than it is about Bex and Nick.
Royal We is super fun, but I was annoyed with a few aspects: 1.
It really is a W+K fanfic, right down to small unnecessary details like the rakish little brother being a womanizing ginger.
2. Love triangle.
I understand the need for a scandal, but the third individual in the triangle made me sad.
Royal We is very enjoyable, but nothing groundbreaking.
I wouldn't buy it; checking out from the library is fine.ETA: I WOULD like to see a sequel/companion all about Freddie finding love and also dealing with the fallout of Things that transpired in The Royal We.
2/5 Stars The Royal We by Heather Cocks and Jessica Morgan is a contemporary romance about Rebecca Porter who is an American studying at Oxford to finish her degree in British History but wants to draw more than anything. Rebecca or Bex as people like to call her is like any normal college student, who doesn’t want a fairytale life, she just wants to get done with school with no issues. This all changes while she learns that she is living down the hall from a handsome English man named Nick who
Since Bex is still a college student she wants to be able to have a life without the watchful eyes of cameras and learn how to be herself away from Nick.
Knowing that she wants a career and a life, Bex isn’t sure if she can sacrifice that for the man she loves.
Nick and Bex ends up getting caught in public together and that’s when his family decides they want to meet her.
This disappointed me because I wanted to love all the characters and I just didn’t end up having a connection with them as I usually do in this genre.
