https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53072.Gates_of_Paradise
Luke and Annie's relationship was cute to me, although on the incest-y side; when I heard that both Fanny and Heaven were expecting at the same time, I figured their offspring would either grow up hating or loving each other.
Something about her recovery, Tony's off-key attitudes, and seeing Annie grow up as her beliefs about love, friendship, and family are tested really meant a lot to me as a V.C. Andrews novel.
The incest isn't there just for show; it is a result of the twisted family lines explored in the rest of the Casteel novels.
I felt that the story line was definitely lacking and it was very obvious that this book was written by the ghost writer.
I also noticed that even some of the names were wrong in this book, such as saying Logan's middle name was Robert when all through the previous books it was stated that his middle name was Grant.
I just feel that this book was poorly written and the ghost writer did not take much care to make sure the story line was accurate, even with something as simple as names of characters.
I was also very disappointed in how Logan was portrayed in this book.
This book was terrible, a sad, sad echo of the first book in the series.
The main character Annie is sickeningly sweet and good, much like Heaven was but so much more annoying.
The relationship with her half-brother/cousin is...strange and unbelievable.
Tony Tatterton, sigh, it's just a rehash of the previous two books in the series.
And most of the time Annie is stranded in one room, confused about her nurse, Tony, her half-brother/cousin/lover, blahblahblahblah.
I can't believe Heaven would be with such an imbecile.
The end.I will, of course, read the final book in this series.
Sigh.
It’s also interesting to see how she deals with everything after a terrible accident, what she does to deal with it and how other people treat her.Some things in the book, and some characters, are just sick, unfortunately people like that exist in the real world as well, and what Annie thinks about it and how she deals with it is very realistic, as is her struggles.This saga seems to become more and more like a soap opera by each book, or maybe they’ve been like this from the beginning, it just that I notice it more now.
The first book, Heaven, is still my favourite.
This is my least favorite book in the series and it grates on my nerves after just a few chapters. One thing that really bothers me throughout the novel is that eighteen-year-old Annie still calls her parents "Mommy" and "Daddy". The whole fantasy Farthy thing in the beginning is extremely repetitive and the recuperation at Farthy becomes that way after a while also. The only thing that saves this novel is the appearance of Troy at the end.
Least favorite in the series.Novels that were truly written by Ms. Andrews were Flowers in the Attic, Petals on the Wind, If There Be Thorns, Seeds of Yesterday, My Sweet Audrina, Heaven, and Dark Angel.
Beginning with the final books in the Casteel series they worked closely with a carefully selected writer to organize and complete Virginia's stories and to expand upon them.
The novels that may have been begun by Andrews and finished by Neiderman were Garden of Shadows, Fallen Hearts, Gates of Paradise, and Web of Dreams.
While not as good as the other Casteel books (possibly because it was finished by Andrew Neiderman after VCAndrew's death), this book is still a very good read.
The ending felt a bit rushed, but if you read the first three Heaven books and want to see how the saga closes, pick up this book.
There's not as much action in here since it's supposed to be the end of the Casteel saga so the ending might feel cliched and I definitely think it could have been better, but c'est la vie.
4 out of five stars isn't so bad, after all.
Honestly, I can't remember if I read this one or not.But if I did...here's what happened:Young teen-aged girl, poor cruel family, hot older brother, gets adopted by cruel rich adoptive-family, hot adoptive father (or step-father), hot adoptive brother (or step-brother), SEX SEX SEX, cruel, rich, adoptive family dies bequeathing everything to now-sexually-active pregnant-with-brother's-child, teen-aged girl.Something like that.And yet...I couldn't put these books down!
This was by far the weakest book in the Casteel family series, partly because it shifted POV from Heaven (who I'd grown to love and had been so used to from the other three books) and partly because of the unsatisfying "ending" to Heaven's story. I felt like she deserved so much more. The story lines seemed a bit redundant by this book (although I understand why they were written). It still had the same feel as the other books but I think I had just hoped for something different.
(Rating based on my remembered feelings when I read this book as a 14 year old.)
I dont understand why other people gave this book such bad reviews. This may have truthfully been my favorite one of the series. Was nice to have such a happy ending after all the sadness.
It's like junk food for my brain. Don't judge me. Meh it was okay for a VA book.
Terrible. And yet, I must read this damn series to the end.
Kalbėsiu apie trečią ir ketvirtą rašytojos V.C. Andrews Kastylų serijos dalis/ Trečioji vadinasi – „Apviltos širdys“, ketvirtoji – „Rojaus vartai“.
Jos senelė Džilian ir netikras senelis Tonis ją priima į turtingus namus, ji gauna gerą išsilavinimą.
Trečiojoje dalyje, Heven susituokusi su savo vaikystės meilė Loganu gyvena senelių dvare, kartu su jais.
Tiesa, kaip jau esu rašiusi, šios knygos nėra parašytos pačios Andrews.
Tai rašytojo, rašiusio jos vardu po pačios autorės mirties kūriniai.
Dabar manę laukai paskutinioji Kastylų šeimos sagos dalis – „Svajonių gijos“ Joje bus kalbama apie Heven mamos jaunystę ir papasakota pačios Heven istorijos priešistorė.
It's a shame Heaven and Logan died in a car crash, causing Annie to become crippled and being sent back to Farthinggale Manor back to her great-grandfather (supposed to be but is actually her grandfather) Tony.
But Troy knows straight away that Annie is his, she only has his hands and passion for painting, and she's the spit image of Heaven,  has  to be his, right?This book was a complete waste of time and drag, another pity party and an unbearable main character who I couldn't sympathize with at all.
I mean, really, Annie is Heaven's daughter?
Even though I finished it in only two days, I didn't really like it.
They portrayed Logan as a totally different person, and maybe he changed, after all, many years had passed since the third book but I didn't think Heaven would've allowed such behaviour.
I know everyone seems to get tangled in Tony's web, but Drake?
I think they tried to do this to make us think he was kind of like his father, or even Logan at the beginning, dazzled by Tony's money and position.The end of the book is feeble and again, predictable.
Seemed like a preteen book.
I know most of these books were young adult books but they didn't really seem like it until the ghost writer took over.
This was boring and everything that happened I already knew or expected it to happen.
If you've read the previous books in the series then you know that they're not really brother and sister or cousins.
I'm trying to read some of the other books written by the ghost writer and like I said before, they're all terrible.
I wanted to read all her books, which I will, the ones SHE wrote.
Not a big fan of this one.
For starters, I couldn't get past the fact that Heaven had died (and so young).
I wasn't much of a fan of Annie Stonewall.
Her feelings for Luke were always described as fairy tales which made me think of young children love, which was so different from the love life Heaven had and which I had become accustomed to.
I have to read Web of Dreams even though I'm skeptical, but I think it's about time we learn the truth about Leigh, since she is the true beginning of all these characters.
When I read these novels back in the day I would have given them 3-3.5 STARS and now would say about one StarI started reading VC Andrews books in the 1991 and stopped about 2003. I have read:-Dollanganger Series-Casteel Series-Cutler Series-Landry Series-Logan Series-Orphans Series-Wildflowers Series-Hudson Series-Shooting Stars Series-DeBeers Series-Broken Wings SeriesAs a preteen reading these novels was a rebellion and the gothic theme also seemed cool. I stopped reading this author because the novelty wore off, the novels are too formulaic that I could not tell one book from another and gothic aspect was lost.
The Casteel family saga continues for Heaven's daughter Annie. When her parents are tragically killed in a car accident Annie is taken to Farthinggale Manor, a place she has always dreamt of visiting. But on her arrival Annie quickly realizes it is a cold and dark place, still hiding many family secrets.
The second big Andrews series and the one I liked the most. Something about the Casteel family hit a stronger chord than the Dollanganger clan.
When they leave, Logan is a bit drunk and drives off the road in an accident, killing himself and Heaven, and disabling Annie, who has temporarily lost the use of her legs.This is where Tony Tatterton comes back into the picture.
He's paid off her Dr. to tell her what he wants her to hear, thus keeping her a prisoner at Farthy.In the end, Annie begins to feel her legs and gets to a phone to call Luke.
Troy Tatterson calls Annie to let her know Tony had passed away and would she come to the funeral.
However as an adult I can't understand how I even read the book to the end.
Even this time I felt like I might be able to relate to her a little, but then she became some spoiled child, throwing fits and tantrums.
The creepiness of Annie's dreams of romance were a bit much and were difficult to understand.
For me this story dragged and was a struggle to get through, like Fallen Hearts before it I had a hard time getting into and settling down to read and when I'm easily distracted from a book it's probably not one I'm going to enjoy.
They fantasize together, often including Farthinggale Manor in their dream world, although they have never been there.
Heaven’s past is a mystery to them; she refuses to talk about why she no longer lives at Farthy or talks to Tony Tatterton.This was another Andrews novel obsessed with the incest and rape.
At this point, the books were being written by the ghostwriter, Andrew Neiderman.
I don’t know if Andrews left behind notes that included so much incest and rape, or if Mr. Neiderman has the interest in it, or if he just believes he’s holding on to her desires.Full recap at http://dogearedandwellread.wordpress....
The 4th book in the Casteel series.
In this book, Heaven, Logan and their daughter Annie are living in Winnerrow.
Annie and her half brother Luke have a close bond and even share the same birthday.After attending Fannie's birthday party, Logan, driving drunk, crashes and he and Heaven are killed, leaving Annie alone and paralyzed.
Drake, the son Heaven paid Fannie for in book 3 is now grown and in college.
Of course it's Troy and again Annie is draw to this mysterious person.
More of the same from the first 3 books.
Not one of my favorites of the Casteel series.
And Heaven basically dies because Logan couldn't keep his dick in his pants around Fanny.
(They get into an argument about Fanny while Logan is doing the typical jerk Logan thing by driving really fast down a narrow mountain road in really shitty weather.) My hatred of Logan knows no bounds.
And have you ever noticed how closely this Logan resembles the one in the BSC series?
Like they could be THE SAME PERSON?
I still like Troy the best.
I know I've said it before but 50% related to you is still better than 100% a big stupid jerk.
Okay, I haven't read anyone of the Casteel series until my grandfather came home with Gates of Paradise from his ship, and I 'borrowed it', well stole it's more like it -- because once I read the prologue I couldn't put the book down!
I loved every word in the book.
It's safe to say that since I got the book in 2008, I've read it more than 200 times.
This is how much I loved this book.
V.C. Andrews is totally an inspiration, and this book was amazing.
Where do I start with this trashy novel?Tony is creepy mcCreepy pants.
Love between cousins who turn out not to be related at all (still creepy).
We have "ghosts" and Tony has "dementia" issues.
We also have fetishizing of handicapped people (Annie is an invalid for most of the book, and Tony keeps her bed-bound to keep her that way, so he can be all creepy and pervy, apparently because she can't run and is drugged up she really can't say no /pedobear approved and super fucking creepy).
He also turns out to be her grandfather and uncle, since her REAL daddy is Tony's younger brother.
This is my 1st book i have read in the Casteel series so i can't understand why some gave this a bad review.
oh well lesson learned but Im glad I bought this book but the ending is too quick and I thimk it is better to have one morel chapter of it before they have ended it..
And I'm not sure the next part the web of dreams is the continuation of this book.
I do wish V.C. Andrews were still alive.....if for no other reason than for me to ask about her INCEST fettish!
YISH!!!!
Okay....
with as little spoilers as possible, Heaven and Logan's(?) daughter Annie ends up living with Grandpa Tony at Farthy because of an accident.
Previous to the accident, she has had, because of her mother's sketchy tales, a very romanticized version of her mother's family home.
She finds out very differently.
All of that said, I would like to ask the readers of more current VC Andrews stories (Dawn) like?
Any different from the heaven series?
