https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/775507.Han_Solo_s_Revenge
Han Solo is a "space cowboy."There's still some of that in Empire Strikes Back, yet he's already a bit more like Shane -- the retired and reluctant gunslinger -- and it's pretty much all gone by the time he's out of carbon freeze in Return of the Jedi.Never fear, though, space cowboy, gunslinging, bad ass Han Solo is still on full magnificent display in 1979's Han Solo's Revenge, and thanks to Brian Daley's robust telling, Han gets to wear the cowboy as a second skin.Solo shows off his piloting (riding) skills in a couple of breathtaking chases.
The first two-thirds of this early "Star Wars"novel comprises some of the best sci-fi storytelling I've ever experienced reading a Lucasverse book...this is proper, sprawling, old school science fiction. The final third is a bit more disappointing, as the setting and characters become less interesting, and the ending seems rather sudden. But I'm incline to be generous, especially as Brian Daley provides the best characterization of Han Solo I have ever read. That alone pushes the final rating to four stars.
I don't know how Brian Daly got involved in writing a series of prequel books featuring the adventures of Han Solo and his wookie partner but he was the perfect man for the job. Each of these books is distinguished by fast paced action, snappy dialog and old fashioned cliffhanger plotting to keep the reader interested.
Any single chapter of this book contains more fun, more excitement, and more pure STAR WARS than the entire 2-hour running time of Disney's SOLO.
Why Disney decided to start over from scratch instead of licensing some of these old novels is completely beyond me.HAN SOLO'S REVENGE is almost good as Book #1 of the trilogy, except for the fact that the story threads don't tie together very well at the end.
But whatever.Minor criticisms aside, Brain Daley was obviously the perfect choice to be writing the Han Solo character and expanding the STAR WARS universe back in 1979 while fans waited for a follow-up to A NEW HOPE.
Honestly this felt more like Han Solo than any recent novel I have read that included him within. (Chuck Wendig I am looking at you). This novel just seems to capture that awesome sci-fi feel and a feel of "anything can happen" as it was published before Lucasfilm strictly controlled the stories published. A great blast from the past.
It was okay. Nice short fun little romp with Han and Chewie.
For one, Daley has a better understanding of the characters he’s writing; for another, the story feels like it belongs in the Expanded Universe, while Smith’s novels felt like they had been retconned to fit in with Star Wars.
One thing I have to credit both authors with is the lightheartedness of some of the scenes; so many of the EU novels take themselves so seriously it’s hard to imagine there being any “walking carpet” scenes in them, but Smith and Daley both made sure to include them.Han Solo’s Revenge is a slightly better story than Stars’ End, thanks to Daley giving us more depth to Han Solo and Chewbacca.
True to the movies, though, Chewbacca is the more moral of the two characters, driving Han to do the right thing even when he’s reluctant.
Han Solo will do almost anything for five thousand credits. But when things go sour, he's on the hunt to get paid.
to be honest, it's more of a 2.5.Taking place before "A New Hope" Han and Chewie have found themselves in need of a job and take the first one that comes along, not bothering to ask too many details.
It was slow to start and I found myself constantly going "that's not how Han would react" or "what kind of description is that for Chewbacca's language?" I found myself having to constantly remind myself that this book was written between the release of "A New Hope" and "The Empire Strikes Back" and here I am, almost 30 years after the book was written upset that it was not following cannon or even established fandom that hadn't come yet, so the character issues I had were all my own and once I managed to remind myself that was the case, the characterizations were tolerable.
The book goes in-depth about a few of the things that Han talks about in the actual star wars films such as the "Kessel Run" which also happens to be a part one of my favorite scenes in the original trilogy of star wars.
Overall the book was great and easy to read because it always keeps you on the edge of your seat wondering what kind of trouble Han will get him and his crew into next as well as how he will manage to make one of his famous last-second escapes.
For the most part, Han was a young scoundrel/smuggler doing his best to make a buck in the galaxy when a job he failed to get adequate intel on went bad.
There is an overall story, and things get tied together in the end, but my biggest criticism of this book is that the plot is a bit murky.Han wants payment for the job that went bad, but he doesn’t know who to get it from.
The story felt more cohesive to me, with less frenetically stuffed in action for the hell of it.
I'm all for popcorn reads, but I like a book to be more than a series of special-effects-in-prose.
There's less attention on the boring droids and other supporting (and ephemeral) cast here as well - the focus is more solidly on Han, which allows for a bit of character work, adding to the greater likeability of this volume.
I'd still like to see more focus on his friendship with Chewie, but in general Daley's decision to strip back the moving parts a bit has paid off.
I read a bind-up of all three Han Solo stories about a week ago.
Keeping all three isn’t worth it to me.As for the story, I love every single character in this, especially fiolla.
It’s nice to see a female character interact with Solo and not be a forced romantic interest( unlike Jessa and hasti in the other two stories.) Bollux is best droid.
If you like bollux and blue max don’t read “Han Solo and the lost legacy.
“ Han Solo and chewbacca are awesome as always.
I love their dynamic and they are the best bro ship in the universe.
"Han had put the word abroad that he and his ship were available for hire and disinclined to ask questions, and the job had come, as Sonniod had predicted it would, from unseen sources in the form of a faceless audio tape and a small cash advance.
But with creditors hounding them and their other resources exhausted in the wake of the debacles in the Kamar Badlands, Han and his partner had seen no alternative but to ignore Sonniod's advice and accept the run.Was I born this stupid, Han asked himself in disgust, or am I just blossoming late in life?" (pg 210-211)
I was going to say this is better than the first in the trilogy, but I read my review of Stars' End and apparently it was better, lol. Neither of them are all that memorable. Ok enough adventure story, Han does draw the line for taking money at hauling slaves, is a good guy at heart, yada yada. Supporting characters fairly flat, although the robots are always cool. Only for diehard fans, this one. Doesn't do much to advance Solo's or Chewie's characters other than showing similar qualities to other books.
"Life’s a banquet."Honestly, I liked this a LITTLE more than Han Solo at Stars' End, but not much. There are a LOT of new alien races to take in here. And while the one side of me is like, "Cool!" the other side is like, "What... what? I need a visual reference guide. I am confused."But, more Han Solo adventure, more aliens, more women (well, woman), more Chewie, more hijinks. So it's pretty much what I expect.Sidebar: Space pirate Han Solo going after slavers so strongly reminds me of Firefly's Malcom Reynolds, yes?
Probably really a 3.5 star but the twists and new characters are a pure joy. Really great read. Gallandron is a terrific addition to the Star Wars story, and I hope they find a way to bring him in to the current (Disney-era) franchise machine.
I really enjoyed this one, Han Solo's Revenge, even a bit more than the first book. Mr. Daley did a great job bringing the characters to live and to creating some interesting worlds, ships and situations. It's a solid read, which any reading Star Wars fan can appreciate. :-)
Has an antagonist named "Zlarb", so that's a big plus!
Trochę infantylny tytuł - to chyba w ogólności piętno wczesnych książek z tego uniwersum - jednak w ogólności historia całkiem spoko.
Good book, fast to read :D
It was a pretty interesting story, but I found it very hard to follow all the plot lines and subplots.
Slightly better than boring Star Wars Fanfic.
Not as good as the first book.
Han and Chewie get into trouble and have adventures. There's some shootouts and narrow escapes. It's well-written and moves along quickly.
I found the ending a bit confusing but otherwise it was good.
So, immediately after reading I gave the book 3 stars, but as is generally my habit waited to write this review till I had some time to digest things and think about what I wanted to write.
All that being said, I think this one was far better than the first novel in the series, "Han Solo at Star's End".
So I guess to wrap things up, I'll not change my 2 star rating, but as I said, if the books are intended for a young audience, then it's probably deserving of 3 1/2 stars.
Written by Brian Daley back in 1979, the novels feature a young Han Solo and Chewbacca, struggling to survive as smugglers in a time before that fateful meeting with Luke Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi in the cantina.The second installment in the series, Han Solo's Revenge features the duo getting tangled up in a bad deal with slavers.
And of course, the close bond of friendship between he and Chewbacca is a central part of the story.While Daly does write a good fun adventure story in Han Solo's Revenge, the story seems to come to a screeching halt at the end, and wraps up a little too quickly.
Reading this novel was like reading a slice of the “original” Star Wars movie with regards to these two space fairing rogues.And you just know that they are headed for trouble after about six pages in, what else could go wrong - right?Daley also has a knack for convoluted plots, counterplots, double-crosses and interesting characters.
Not a long novel, Han Solo’s Revenge is very enjoyable and a fun read.If you have an interest in Star Wars novels, then you really need to read the Han Solo adventurers and you are able to pick them up at just about any bookstore in the three-in-one format from DelRey publishing.It’s really a shame Daley exited this world so soon in his life.
Again, I haven't read these books since I was 10 or 11, so coming back to them at this age and stage of life is quite interesting.
I remember this!" As I read this trilogy, I find that I really admire the way Brian Daley handles the Han Solo and Chewbacca characters; he gets the tone quite right.
But considering that (SPOILER ALERT!) they killed Zlarb and released his cargo (e.g. the slaves) in the first few chapters of the book, why would they think anyone owed them anything?
