https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21853633-first-frost
What sets Sarah Addison Allen apart is that, while there is always a touch of the whimsical and magical in her stories, the magic isn't merely a bystander.
The magic is so expertly woven through the story that it never overshadows the story or the characters; rather, it accentuates them.The characters are deep and complex and they wrestle with universal human struggles.
If I could pick the work of one modern author that I believe should endure and be read and taught and cherished a hundred years from now, Sarah Addison Allen would be that author.
Another book with the Waverleys!!!! Is it January yet!??
It takes place a decade after Garden Spells ended and though the re-visit to the Waverley household is familiar--warm, comforting, loving--it feels strangely unnecessary.
While I loved being back in Waverley House and the distinct feeling of Allen's writing is a sensation that wraps around you and holds you tight, like a blanket, First Frost is possibly the most disappointed I have been by her work.
Claire and Sydney were a unit and in being so, the union of their sisterhood from Garden Spells is a far more compelling story than their joint unity in First Frost.
I didn't feel moved by these characters or their struggles as I was in Garden Spells.
Sydney’s daughter, Bay’s gift of finding where things belong gets her into trouble when she gives a note to an older boy about how they “belong together”.
And an ailing Evanelle has taken Fred under her wing in more ways than one.The conflict in this story expressed magical-realistically in the theme of what makes a family.
In a predictable storyline, she finds that her irresponsible receptionist—who has a child that Sydney loves being around—is looking to leave town and (view spoiler)[ends up giving her kid to Sydney, who couldn’t be happier about the impromptu adoption.
(view spoiler)[ Apparently the gift is mediumship and the girl has been conversing with Claire and Sydney’s dead mother.
While I didn't expect much from it other than some pleasant escapism, this novel had me sighing in exasperation."First Frost" is the sixth book by Sarah Addison Allen that I have read, and it is one of her weakest.
It is a sequel to "Garden Spells" and continues the story of the Waverley family in Bascom, North Carolina.
I will pause here to say that all of Allen's novels contain some magical realism, with varying degrees of success.
In the past I have enjoyed dipping into her stories when I needed a light read, but "First Frost" was too silly and just didn't gel.
Nobody know why their lives change but they have to have Claire's candy with her secret flower ingredients.
However, there was a secret foid between the Waverley and Matteson families of which Bay and Claire was unaware and only Sydney can explain, but she ain't talking, that is, until the silver-eyed man enters town...So much southern charm grace this tale of women negotiating their lives through family secrets, heartbreak, botched-up love affairs, and social challenges in a town where they are deemed odd.
But it all will change before Claire's first frost party take place this year in the garden with the apple tree.
Αυτό το βιβλίο είναι χαρούμενο, ρομαντικό και αισιόδοξο σαν παιδί που ακόμα ελπίζει και πιστεύει στη μαγεία…
[Thursday, August 28, 2014] No way! No way! No way!! OMG!! I'm so excited!!!! I wanted a second installment the first time I finished the book!! :DA few years ago I read Garden Spells, and afterward read it multiple times, for the pleasure reading it gave me, since then Allen became one of my favorite authors, I've been pre ordering her novels ever since.I didn't want to finish reading First Frost, I wanted to slowly enjoy it, I always rush though a good book, and First Frost was so good that as
:DA few years ago I read Garden Spells, and afterward read it multiple times, for the pleasure reading it gave me, since then Allen became one of my favorite authors, I've been pre ordering her novels ever since.I didn't want to finish reading First Frost, I wanted to slowly enjoy it, I always rush though a good book, and First Frost was so good that as I flipped the last page I said loudly: "Third book coming soon?"I don't think I'll ever tire of the Waverleys story or the world Sarah creates in all her books.
I want to be a Waverley and I want ALL those cooking books and recipes.
Each Waverley had something different about her.Claire and Sydney also feature heavily in this book as well (thankfully), as well as the aging Evanelle, it was akin to a long lost family reunion for me, and I loved every second of it.First Frost is an easygoing and comforting read, it almost felt like coming home after years away.
Her stories are unique, colourful and memorable, First Frost is no exception, it is another perfect example why I love her books, and I would encourage anyone to give them a go, disappointment is not a word contained in the book of Words to Describe Sarah Addison AllenDon’t define yourself by what you don’t want to do.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to St. Martin's Press and NetGalley.) “First frost was always an unpredictable time, but this year it felt more… desperate than others.Something was about to happen.” Wow. Just Wow. I Loved this book! I really didn’t want it to end, and now I’m just crying!I loved the characters in this book, it was so nice to find out what had happened to everybody after the end of ‘Garden Spells’, and seeing Bay all grow
I really didn’t want it to end, and now I’m just crying!I loved the characters in this book, it was so nice to find out what had happened to everybody after the end of ‘Garden Spells’, and seeing Bay all grown up was just so special.
I felt really sorry for both Claire and Sydney in this book and the things they were going through, but this whole book was just so heart-warming and touching, and an absolute joy to read.
I hope that more people will read this and fall in love with it too!
I won this book as a First Reads giveaway.
The Waverly women from Garden Spells return in Sarah Addison Allen's latest, to be released in January.
It was a perfect time to read this as it takes place just before the first frost.
I enjoyed the magical themes once again as we learn that Claire is in business making candy, Sydney is longing for a baby, and her daughter, Bay is a teenager, accepting her life and gifts as a Waverly woman.
This was a very enjoyable, quick read, I stayed up late to finish.
Delightful, and highly recommended, especially if you enjoyed Garden Spells!
I wanted to LIVE in this town, be a magical Waverley or part of some other old family with a famed talent.
There is not that sense of generations of people living in the same small town, all knowing each other and their secrets, for better or for worse.
This book made me nostalgic for small town living, and it gave me a strange sense of peace to read about this magical place.
I loved the focus of this book on Bay, who was just a small child in the first book.
I liked the story.
It was the second book of the Waverley sisters, now with husbands and children.
I don't think Sydney and Claire needed another story in their lives.
This could have been a new book with new characters, in my opinion.
The plot was slow and it was a little too long but it was an easy, girly read and nice for the fall, winter weather.
A short story would've been better.
Anyway, Allen is a feel good author and I DO like how the characters aren't forced to live happily ever after.
If they are crappy that is the way Allen makes them throughout.
Good karma, bad karma.
What a perfect book to read this time of year. First Frost takes place around Halloween, and is a book that I read at the right time. I fell in love again with the Waverley's, and their quirks. The book was magically descriptive and made me wish that I lived on the same street so that I could taste Claire's candies, and join in at the First Frost party. Light-hearted with the perfect amount of mystery stirred in. I want to go back and read it all over again.
3.5 Everyone need a little magic in their life and that is exactly what I receive when I read this author.
A return to the Waverly's of Garden Spells, this amazing family all with their own individual special talents.
Who wouldn't like to have an apple tree that tosses apples at those she feel are interfering, which blooms at first frost and signals new beginnings, like a reset button?
Wonderful characters, enchanting story lines.Light, feel good reads, this author has mastered the art of writing this type of book, a book that entertains and surprises.ARC from NetGalley.
The Waverleys of Bascom, NC, have an apple tree in the backyard that lies dormant each fall until the first frost appears, usually sometime in late October.
Her mother wants another pregnancy.
And her Aunt Claire wants to stop feeling overwhelmed by her thriving candy business.
Only then there comes a stranger to town....The Waverleys, all female and all magical in their own ways, are an endearing bunch, as is their story.
I am not particularly fond of all the fairy and fantasy stuff, and thought it could have been a fine story without it.
On the other hand, the magic and fairy dust make this story what it is--rather special.
My rating: 3.5 of 5 stars ‘First frost was always an unpredictable time, but this year it felt more... desperate than others.Something was about to happen.’ First Frost marks the return to the beloved town of Bascom, North Carolina where the Waverley sisters reside. Claire has left her catering business behind after creating Waverley’s Candies. The business itself is lucrative and does extremely well, but the amount of time she must dedicate to the business leaves Claire with little time for her
First frost is an unpredictable time for the Waverley’s and it also heralds the arrival of an old man that brings a story that might change everything for these women.I really, really enjoyed Garden Spells (the second time I read it at least) but the ending didn’t leave me anticipating that there would ever be a sequel so the announcement of First Frost was quite a surprise, but an exciting one for sure.
While I felt the multiple storylines didn’t mesh together quite as well as they did in Garden Spells, it was still wonderful to be back in Bascom.The magic of the Waverley’s is definitely back with the characters we all know and love, and even a few new faces.
Welcome back to the world of the Waverley sisters and their enchanting family.
Some time has passed with Claire and Sydney along with their respective families awaiting the annual first frost.
Things are in a bit of a stew, but first frost will bring much needed peace.
Claire, while successful is full of doubts as to her gifts and worries that she is short changing her husband and daughter.
If you haven't read Garden Spells, no worries.
First Frost stands well on it's own.
Take the time, snuggle in and read both.
Και σαν να μην έφταναν όλα αυτά, ένας άγνωστος άντρας εμφανίζεται χωρίς καμία προειδοποίηση, στο κατώφλι του σπιτιού τους, αποκαλύπτοντάς τους ένα μυστικό που θα ταράξει τις ίδιες και τη ζωή τους, με τρόπο ανεπανόρθωτο, αν δεν καταφέρουν να το διαχειριστούν.Όπως προείπα, έχοντας διαβάσει το πρώτο βιβλίο της "σειράς", μπορώ να έχω μια πολύ ξεκάθαρη άποψη για το πως η Allen έχει διαχειριστεί την ιστορία της με το πέρασμα των χρόνων, αλλά, κυρίως, το πως έχει εξελίξει τους χαρακτήρες.
Η Κλερ και η Σίντνεϊ δεν ήταν, τα πρώτα χρόνια της ζωής τους, οι αγαπημένες αδερφές που συναντάμε στο σήμερα.
I loved how First Frost picked up on all the same characters years later.
They each still carry their own special Waverley gifts & these gifts become useful new ways in preparation for the frost.
I enjoyed catching up with one of my favorites characters, Evanelle & I was happy to learn more about the famous Waverley apple tree.
I got to catch up with all my friends in Bascom, North Carolina.If there is a third book in this series, I would definitely be into it- these characters are just memorable.
Achingly sweet and, at times, painfully YA.
And yet, I'm still glad to be back in Bascom, North Carolina revisiting the Waverlys, their apple tree, and their witchy ways.I don't know what it is about this author or her writing that still draws me in, but I do know that it's something I would have hated had I read it a few years ago.
All this sweetness and youthful energy would have been too suffocating, and I would have dismissed the book as over the top and juvenile.
And I know I would have DNF'd at around page 20 and never looked back.But the times have changed, as they often do, and my taste has been veering toward all things light and happy, fiction included.
Several years ago I came across a book in my favorite used book store called Garden Spells.
When I finally sat down and read I was immediately taken into a special world that left me with such wonderful feelings and instantly I became a fan of the author.
It immediately brought me back to those wonderful feeling I had when I read Garden Spells.
I really wish I could slip into their world and see the apple tree for myself.
I have recommended Garden Spells to so many people and I now happily add First Frost to that very short list of well-loved books.
Awwwwwwww. Now idd'n that just the sweetest thang. A feel-good book if ever there was one. Ms. Allen delivers more of what we've been hankering for since we fell in love with the Waverley women in Garden Spells.A review is in the works.
Nastavak priče o sestrama Waverley, a ovaj put je u fokusu Bay, kći mlađe sestre Sydney. Radnja je smještena pred prvi mraz, kako i sam naslov kaže, događaj koji sestrama mnogo znači. Pojavljuje se i nepoznati gost koji će pokušati pokvariti porodičnu idilu... Opet jako lijepo napisano, bajkovito, sa mnoštvom divnih citata koji pokazuju kako je zapravo porodica nešto najdragocjenije u životu svakog čovjeka.Od srca preporučujem ovaj roman kao i Čarobni vrt. Zavoljet ćete sestre Waverley i njihove najbliže.
Three and a half stars: A book with lovely writing, wonderful characters, but it felt unfinished.Bay dashes down the street, eager to reach her Aunt Claire's house to start candy making.
*The ending is for the most part satisfying, and I appreciated that both Claire and Sydney found resolutions to their problems, and that Bay seemed set on the right path, however it felt a bit unfinished, like there is more story to tell, and I am hoping that means there will be another Waverly book down the road.
Sarah Addison Allen never lets me down - FIRST FROST picks up a few years after the end of Garden Spells.Claire, Sydney and Bay have settled into life as a family but now are each starting to feel restless and their magic is suffering.
Sydney’s hair is turning bright red – Sydney feels she has failed as a wife to provide her husband with a son.
One by one the problems are solved in ways that are a little predictable in Sydney’s case – but oh so satisfying!I loved the characters - they seemed so real for me - in fact I loved how the apple tree and Claire's house are actually characters in their own right and certainly make their opinions known.
The Waverley women from Garden Spells return in Sarah Addison Allen's First Frost. I enjoyed revisiting her endearing, quirky characters as well as the charming magic each one possesses. As Halloween approaches the Waverley ladies become a tad unhinged. The first frost of the season calms everything down but they have to make it until then. A sinister stranger arrives, a high school crush unfolds, a thief surprises all and questions about the past surface and had me turning the pages quickly. First Frost is a quick and entertaining read and it was my pleasure to be back in Bascom.
Ehhh...I didn't love this like I thought I would.I think I got caught up in the idea of a follow-up to Garden Spells, which I seem to have enjoyed quite well.Like Garden Spells, this story's characters did nothing for me - not a surprise since most of them were the same characters.
The Halloween party at the school is especially painful and sounds like something yoinked from an 80’s After School special.
Why did those non-hipster girls dress as VH-1 video icons and why did Bay recognize every single reference?But then, these kids, they didn't sound like teenagers, anyhow.
Well, they did, but it was more like 80's sitcom characters and not the kids you'd find in the 'hood these days.
I thoroughly enjoyed Garden Spells.
The Sugar Queen and The Peach Keeper also hewed close to Allen's light magical realism and ability to create endearing, quirky characters that you pull for as their trials and triumphs unfurl with each page turn.
I just cannot say the same for Garden Spells sequel First Frost.
And why, oh why, the creation of two completely gratuitous gay men and gay "dating" problems instead of looking deeper into the two men the Waverley sisters have married and with whom they share their unique lives?
*sigh* I know Ms Allen can do better and my confidence in her ability will keep me looking for he next novel.
I can't wait to read this book. I love Sarah Addison Allen's stories. Magical realism at its best! Normally I HATE January but I'll be looking forward to it this year.
