https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8703973-beware-of-the-dog
Or even, isn't he the man who wrote scary stories to freak children out because really, he did not like small children and their self serving and mendacious ways?
The best thing about Dahl is that he wrote some truly excellent adult stories which have seem to have been overlooked by the public at large who are rather more fond of the chocolate rivers, giant fruit and abusive bearded guardians.
Beware of the Dog is a short, well crafted war story which describes the downing of a plane and its wounded pilot.
Beware of this short storyContrary to what the title - and the name Roald Dahl - may suggest, this story is not about an angry, foaming dog who goes through a redemption arc and becomes some kid's sweet, bubbly pet. It is, actually, a skilfully crafted psychological short story about a pilot who lost his leg during WWII.
I hadn't read the introduction and review of this story and so wasn't expecting a story for adults coming from the mind of Dahl.
But the fact is, Dahl have actually written some stories for adults and this is one among them.
The story goes fine but the ending is a little abrupt and it left me confirming twice if the story has actually ended.
The story has it's twists but still it left me wanting for more.
I just read that in reality Dahl hated children and abhorred their shenanigans.
WWII is a big part in history and i know a lot about it.Plot Summary: Peter other known as the man is in a Plane where he is missing his right leg.
When the French General comes in he asks for his ranking and his number so he can report his injury for the "French soldier" the man says "My name is Peter Williamson.
Peter betrayed his country instead of saying he was the enemy.Character Analysis: The main character's name is Peter Williamson, he is a German Pilot whose plane was shot down by the Allies in WWII.
A nice anti-war short story..
I really liked the way it ended... shocking because it is so abrupt.
I found this book very enjoyable due to the manner in which the story progresses, with Peter so suddenly yet casually revealing the loss of his right leg, as well as the slow reveal, through the use of subtle hints most would not notice, that he is captive in France. I also enjoyed the end of the story, with Peter knowing the steps to take to secure the safety of himself and his fellow troops.
I really loved this book and would love to read more of his stories from WWII.
Roald gives such a different perspective of history of events or scenario, which makes his writing so unique from others.
The way he describes the internal dilemma that the British soldier is having in the fake hospital could be a very real casino during that time period, Nazi-occupied countries would do anything to captiviate and or capture their enemies to find out any necessary information.
I recommend this book because it gives a real-life situation that could happen, that's not a very happily ever after.
I think I had a hard time with this short story because the subject matter is so foreign to me. I know extremely little about WWII so I wasn't able to pick up on some small but important details, and it left me a little confused and unsure of what was going on. I had to look up a summary of the story afterwards for all the pieces to click into place, but I can appreciate it a little more now.
Roald Dahl takes a drastic change from his typical children stories in this short story. In "Beware the Dog", Dahl writes an ending that leaves you chilled and with a desire to read more. It is a shame that the story is short. Well written and crafted, Roald Dahl's "Beware the Dog" is in all sense of the word, a good read.
I thought this short story by Roald Dahl was interesting and well written. It contained many vivid descriptions and a suspenseful buildup to a surprising end. Although the end had a great twist, it was very abrupt and felt like it was paced differently than the rest of the short story.
Amazing prose that got me from the start. Wish the ending was more of a bang, it's pacing felt a little off.
Beautifully revealed, excellent story.
A short psychological story with a spine-tingling ending.
For the majority Roalh Dahl is known as children writer.
Of course, I have read Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, James and the Giant Peach or Danny the Champion of the World and I was always fascinated by the Dahl's writing ability and style - somewhere between the dream worlds with hints of reality and, definitely, kindness of stories.As it comes known Roald Dahl has some adult stories as well and this is one of them.
For the first half of it, I was still expecting the story to be meant for children.
On a whim, I searched to see if Roald Dahl had written any short stories that I hadn't read that were for adults...and I found this one. WOW. The main character is an injured pilot who finds himself in a hospital minus one leg. He's disturbingly unconcerned about the missing leg (at the beginning he found it all quite humorous) but finds himself suspicious of his surroundings. The ending is chilling.
Not the best Dahl short story out there, but still has the classic Dahl twist at the end. Enjoyable, but if this is your first experience with Dahl's adult short stories DO NOT JUDGE HIM ON THIS ONE ALONE!! Roald Dahl is my all time favourite author of adult short fiction, and he has written much better stories than this one. This one is good, but some of his others just blow the top off the scale.
A British pilot is shot down and finds himself in an unfamiliar hospital missing a leg. He is cared for, and members of the command stop to inquire about his health and what happened. All seems well until he pulls himself to the window to see that all is not as it appears. With a great twist and realistic elements, this short story is fun and its surprise ending delights. Recommend.
I can honestly say I don't remember much of what I read in high school. (maybe that's because I read more cliff's and barron's notes rather than the actual books :-)) I do, however, vividly remember the short story Beaware of the Dog. It's excellent.
30 minutes of enjoyable short story.=) I really did enjoy this, I think some would say it's a psychological something-something. A pilot jettisons out of his cockpit over the English channel in war time and wakes up in a hospital bed.Read it for yourself :)
This isn't a children's book about dogs, it's a WW2 story for grown-ups.Short and vivid, Dahl portrays how a British pilot deals with losing much of his right leg."Beware of the Dog" is an engaging little tale that's well worth checking out.
Amazing and vivid descritions, but the ending was a total whacker, like, it just ended, as if it was the middle of a story. What a bummer.
Great little twist of a story. The leaves many possibilities, but not in an annoying way. It doesn't need to say any more. Fantastic!
There was a lot of suspense and build up, but the ending was a bit of a let down. I expected something a bit more climatic.
Great short story by Dahl. Only wish it were longer, but hence "short" story.
Story was okay, but I listened on Audible and the reader was not very impressive.
Read this Feb 2017 - not dated in review so as not to count in overall reading challenge for 2017 because it is a short storyFull review on my blog www.glimpsinggembles.com
I was somewhat confused when the book finished, felt it ended abruptly. Only God knows why I liked it.
Was really into it. I would've liked if the story went on.
It's a short story that leaves you in suspense.
