https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/867248.Bear_Snores_On
This was a cute story that explained hibernation a little bit. My students really enjoyed the pictures.
i LOVE this book, but i have to say the subsequent follow-ups were all basically the same. bear gets sick, bear stays up, bear files taxes, and on it goes.
Loved this one today. The kids barely touched their cereal as I read this one. We've read one of these before and they love this bear and his friends. This time was no exception. The illustrations are big and beautiful and make the bear look so cuddly that one of my 2 yr old twins, Merrick, always hugs himself and says "Awww! Hugs!" There aren't many words overall, but I think it could probably be considered a level 1 reading book, as the diversity of the words are evident. Overall, a fun read.
I love this book. Black tea and popcorn? Dancing with badgers and sneezes! ACHOOOOOOO!
This book is a HUGE hit with kindergarten and first graders. They just get such a giggle out of it. I can't keep Karma Wilson's books on the shelves.
Good rhythm, lots of different voices to invent...a good read aloud book.Poor bear hibernates right through most of the party that is carrying in right in his own lair. When he wakes up he is a blubbering mess about being left out but is quickly welcomed to join the fun. Unfortunately, soon after he joins the fun, all of his mates fall asleep leaving him wide awake and on his own. Its no fun being the last awake party animal at dawn....come on, who wants to go to denny's for some 4 am breakfast?!
Sham took Athena to her first storytime at Oak Park Public Library today! They are experimenting with combined-ages, themed classes this month. Tuesdays' theme is Explore Your World. They learned about hibernating animals and read Bear Snores On, naturally. There was also some singing. Evidently A sat on her own in front of Sham, because he wanted her to be in her own space, and she wobbled over at one point but didn't cry to everyone's surprise.
This is a cute story that will delight your young readers. Deep into winter a small mouse comes upon a bear's cave, where it is deep in hibernation. Not even the fire he starts wakes the bear up. Not even when the rabbit comes and they pop some popcorn. Soon more animal friends come in to escape the winter storm, but still the bear snores on...until...well, you will just have to find out. :-) Great way to introduce hibernation and also talk about some misconceptions about what other animals do during the winter.
This was one of the first books that our now 7YO loved. The 'bear' series that Karma Wilson has is simple, but so effective with small children. This-and the rest of the 'bear' series that we have are still here, even though our kids are much older. The books are being saved in the library for when, or if they're needed in the future.
This book was a hit for my kindergarteners! Such a cute story and touches base on hibernation.
Bear sleeps through a party his animal friends have. Awaken he becomes angry until joins in the fun. Good bedtime or naptime read.
A really lovely and fun story for younger children. Teaches about hibernation in the story.Firm favourite with my Grandchildren. Recommended.
One of my long-time faves, through all my kids. Never gets old.
This book is full of lovely sensory descriptions -- smells, sights, tastes, and sounds. The illustrations are big and lush. The story is a little basic, but still entertaining.
This is obviously where Lady Gaga gets her best ideas: "The coals pip-pop and the wind doesn't stop....
1 58-70) While Bear hibernates, his friends have been crashing his cave to party.
Bear has the prototypical party host meltdown scene (see "Mean Girls," "Can't Hardly Wait", "Weird Science" et.
I was sleeping...and I have had none!"Mouse, shiftless, yet possessing profound insight, teaches Bear that it's never too late to get his groove on: "Don't fret.
We can pop more corn!
We can brew more tea!" We can pop more corn indeed.
Brief summary - While a bear hibernates several animals use his cave to stay warm and have a snack until Bear wakes up and changes everything.Annotation - This story is a great read aloud with each animal who comes in and tries to be as quiet as possible but bear wakes up and scares them all but they find that he isn't made, he just wants to join in the fun but the animals are so tired they fall asleep on him.Age appropriateness 0-7Connection to six early literacy skills This is great for many d

Wilson writes in a bouncy manner where the words jump off the page in anticipation of being read.
Chapman’s excellent and effective illustrations portray a clear contrast between the harsh conditions of the snowstorm to the comfortable, warm and cosy conditions of the bear’s cave.
This would be a great book to read aloud to your class especially with the fantastic illustrations the book offers.
As mentioned already the comparison of illustrations and words would be very effective in learning about comparisons.This account of bear and his friends doesn’t end here; there are two sequels, ‘Bear Wants More’ and ‘Bear Stays Up for Christmas’.
I love Wilson's bear books--such cute illustrations.
And the stories are the build-on kind that catch kids' attention.
Cute ending, albeit sad that poor bear is now wide-awake.
Or maybe I'm just saying that because I'm exhausted right now.
Could work in a storytime for toddler or preschool.
Depends on the group size and age you get.10/1/14 Used in my Autumn theme even though it is a winter book.
I made it work by saying fall is the time the bears get ready for hibernating.
The kids were so little, it didn't phase them either way.
:-( But the book itself went well.
This story left me a little cold.
This story follows bear as he is hibernating.
His little woodland friends decide that he should not be sleeping but, having fun.
He wakes up & gets mad and then he feels bad.
This story sends a message that it is ok to do something if you want to and never mind the consequences.
They made bear feel bad about the fact that he wasn't partying with them.
He was doing what he needed to do hibernating.
They should have left him alone & went about their business some place else.
This book, available in a baby-friendly board book format, is one of our favorite books for Graeme.
During the harsh moments of winter, several small creatures discover the warm cave of a hibernating bear.
They hope to settle down in comfort and have a bit of a party by each contributing what they still have to offer, despite the scarce days they're in.
Things are going great until the bear wakes up!This is a fun look at winter's cooped up days, at cooperative survival, and diverse friendships.
It is super fun to read, too, no matter how many times we've had to.
On a cold day, one by one, lots of animals find the bear’s den a perfect place to warm up.
They start popping corn, brewing tea and having fun, while the bear just snores on.
But when a speck of pepper lands on the bear’s nose, and wakes him up, the bear in NOT happy.
Being woken up in the middle of his winter’s sleep and finding uninvited guest having a party without him… is just too much for bear.A perfect winter read-aloud and an ideal one to start the series with.
Good. And wow the copy I got from the library was gi-normous. I've not seen a kid's book that big. And my wife put on a repeat performance - apparently she had done that very book at school that day. In her version the book has a bunch less words and a bunch more sound affects. On a re-read it was hard to get the sounds out of my head. And the cat panicked when the bear sneezed. But quite good enough art and good enough writing. And everyone was friends.
My godson's father is famed for his snoring... So this was a pretty darn obvious choice as a gift.It's winter and the bear is hibernating... But that doesn't stop a lot of animals from seeking shelter in his nice warm cave... And having a party! But what will the bear think about all these animals in his cave, eating his food, when he wakes up?The animals are quite cute and the general storyline slows to a nice pace each time that we repeat "But the bear snores on."
This book has a wonderful rhythm. The text refers to many senses, and the illustrations allow the children to feel like they're really in the cave with the animal. I love adding different voices to the animals, and kids ALWAYS love saying along with me, "the bear snores on!" I also love how the bear feels - kids usually expect the bear to feel angry, not left out. Mouse sets a good example by including Bear. It's a poetic, funny book with a great message.
We have this book as a board book and it is GREAT! The language from the Mouse sipping wee slurps to the Hare burping big burps is evocative onomatopoeia. Add the expressive drawings of a menagerie of animals and you have the workings of delightful warm story that you can savor with each retelling. We've added this one to our growing list of bed time books for my 18 month old daughter's night time routine. A real hoot of a read aloud.
Great board book and no forced rhymes!! I can't stand when authors try to make verses rhyme when they just don't - like JANIS does not rhyme with BANANAS! No matter how many times you try to convince yourself that it does, it just isn't happening!Not so with this book - not only does it flow but it's nicely illustrated and the story? Endearing and enchanting. A definite hit with the pre-school set - especially those who love wilderness animals!
A really great story with wonderful pictures!!! There are a lot of different things that could be done with the story including making or using puppets to help tell the story. We also get to see how friends come together and fix a wonderful meal and share once the bear wakes up! Also I am pretty sure that the children will love pretending to snore just like the bear in the story!
What would you do if you woke to find your friends were having a get together without you but right you are, sleeping? Confused, disgruntled, angry, sad? Maybe all of the above. I guess you will have to read this picture book to find out. Written by karma Wilson, illustrated by Jane Chapman and published as a Margaret K Elderberry book.#animals #PB #cave #party
I bought this book for my 4 year old son. It exceeded my expectations with its easy prose and simply detailed illustrations.It's a kind story about friends coming in from the cold to gather. "Bear Snores On" quickly became his bedtime favorite.
I like this book because it teaches phonemic awareness and about bears hibernating in the winter time! It has a cute and comical twist to it as well! Also, there is a little bit of redundancy, so the audience can participate as well.
