https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13508607-the-secret-keeper
Before her mother dies, Laurel wants to uncover the roots of that long-ago shocking event.
The story alternates between 2011 and 1941, following Laurel's discoveries about the mother she thought she knew.
#1)Morton develops her characters by going off on tangents.
#3)Morton places too much emphasis on the romantic aspects of her stories.
I had the same problem with THE HOUSE AT RIVERTON.Here's my record so far with Kate Morton's books: The Forgotten Garden - 5 starsThe House at Riverton - 3.5 starsThe Distant Hours - 1 starIf your record looks better than that, you're going to love this one, too.
I had this mystery figured out at least five different times throughout the book.
Because I'm smart like that.
I did get one major part right but I completely missed the big shocker.
Wow. Typical Kate Morton style, there are double meanings in the sentence structure.
Additionally, Morton is gifted in her transitions.
Different time periods and different points of view left me hanging at the end of each chapter but only a short while but kept me reading.
Slow starting after the initial shocker in the first chapter but impossible to put down once I was in the rhythm.
When Laurel Nicolson was sixteen years old, she witnessed her mother, Dorothy, stab a man to death.
Bit by bit the pieces of a complex puzzle begin to fit into place, as stunning secrets come to light that will leave the reader stunned, bemused, and even delighted.This book has been on my radar for years, however, it kept slipping down the TBR pile.
I love stories with lots of secrets.
From that moment on, Dorothy begins to harbor a host of incredible secrets that someday her daughter, Laurel, will discover.
Kate Morton rocketed to my absolute favorite author list last year on the strength of The Distant Hours and The Forgotten Garden, but this latest novel absolutely cements and guarantees her continued place there.
Morton's obvious and immense talent for prose, for setting, and for crafting such realistic, concrete characters to operate upon the page - alive in all their wishes, hopes, pasts, flaws, and mistakes - marks her as one of the best authors I have ever had the pleasure to read.
Now Laurel is much older, her mother is dying and something seems to be weighing on her mind, and Laurel decides she needs to Solve the Mystery of her mother's life and find out what caused the murder.There is a lot of jumping back and forth in time in this book, between 2011 and WWII-era times in England during the Blitz, with several scenes from other time periods thrown in for good measure, but it wasn't overly confusing.
My main problem with this book was that I didn't really care a whole lot about Laurel and, worse yet, I gradually grew to actively dislike Dolly, the main character from the WWII scenes.
The Secret Keeper is a story of love; of family and friendships and human nature and perseverance.
Set during the Blitz of WWII and present day, the alternating timelines told from different characters are woven so beautifully and intricately to create the perfect story and mystery.
No one, and I mean NO ONE, does family secrets like Kate Morton.
This was my last unread Kate Morton novel, I had it tucked away for a rainy day because I was sad at the thought of having no more of her stories to hear.
However, Mrs. Morton has a way of writing that keeps up the suspense and makes you change your mind on what might happen all the time.
I often thought I had figured everything out, but then the story took a different direction than I expected and I changed my mind again.The writing style was consistent throughout; I never felt bored or like things were too drawn out.
The changes between the different time periods were done very well and felt connected to each other.I don't really know what else I can say, besides that this was a wonderful book that brought me a huge amount of joy and kept me entertained the whole time I was reading it.
There are bits and pieces involving other characters and other time frames, but they exist only to set up or clarify these main characters and times.The mystery begins when Laurel, the oldest of 4 girls and a boy, witnesses a shocking incident from her hiding spot in the family treehouse when she is sixteen years old.
Many years later, with their mother aged into her 90’s and dying, Laurel feels compelled to discover how various subtle clues in the family’s history link to that time.
I was thrilled with the novel and can't wait to take on the next one.The book takes place over a period of ~60 years focusing for the most part on Dorothy (Dolly) and daughter Laurel.
It all comes together in a surprising conclusion where readers are forced to decide how we feel about an event that can be seen from many different angles.Morton is the best at weaving together a story full of so many different side stories, you can never tell which will be the significant one to change the entire ending or plot arc to capture your shock.
My favourite book by Kate is The Forgotten Garden.
This book is about a young woman named Laurel and she wants to figure out her mothers past.
I love how Kate brings us into the past from her mothers perspective as well, so this book lets you look deep into both characters motives.
I would highly recommend this to anyone looking for a great family history mystery.
These books are such an easy read that you will finish before you even realize it!
COMMENTSThe prose was exceptional, sublime.
The plot - a huge surprise.
The characters - endearing.
The ending - prima.
The mystery - thrilling!As historical fiction - as atmospheric as it can get, with an ambiance of mystery and a light thriller touch.
Five stars indeed, although some dragging took place, the narrative jumped around, resulting in some confusion, and the ending just would not come.
It left me thrilled to be wrong!
In the end I wanted to rate it five stars for the way this book made me feel.
One of the best books I have read so far this year.
Ms. Morton has such a talent of being able to immerse the reader in the setting and make it feel completely authentic especially as it was shown to us through the eyes, heart, and lenses of Jimmy Metcalfe.I also liked the fact that at the beginning of the book we form opinions about the characters and as the story progresses, new layers are peeled away and our whole perspective changes and things are not what they seemed.
A Kate Morton book that I didn't want to keep reading?!
I didn't quite buy Laurel's fabrication when questioned by the police; pretty slick for a teenager (wasn't she just 16 years old?) The flash back to WW2 and the bombing - it was supposed to be terrifying but somehow the author didn't tell me enough about Vivien and Jimmy's disappearance to have the scene grab my interest.
Then present day Laurel, a lukewarm character and some kind of actress.
I began to look at the book on my reading table and felt no interest in spending any more time with it.
I so looked forward to this book - Ms. Morton has been one of my favorite authors.
I would, perhaps, have enjoyed fewer characters in the book, but more fully developed characters.3.
It was difficult for me to feel much sympathy or concern for most of the characters.
And after spending more time than I wanted, reading a book that was longer than the plot or characters justified, and feeling somewhat manipulated by the obviously calculated "twists and turns" I feel a bit cheated.
I'll look forward to Ms. Morton's next book, but most likely won't be so anxious to get it in my hands.
Mysteriously, once the police leave the family farm, her parents never speak of this event again.Now it is 2011, and Laurel returns from London to visit her elderly mother.
What kind of woman was her mother before she married her dad, and what does her mom mean when she talks about her “second chance?”In trademark Kate Morton fashion, the heroine embarks on a quest to find answers, and the reader is launched on a thrilling ride of discovery.
The book alternates between the war-torn London of the 1940s, and Laurel’s present day search for answers.
This could easily be a five star book if it weren't for the length.
Over 1200 pages is a little too much, and I felt the story could have been easily trimmed down.
Although this is historical fiction during WW2, I didn't feel the gravity of the times these characters were living through.
The rest of the book shifts from past to present, as the little girl who has grown up tries to uncover what really happened.
An excellent read if you've got the time!Update 11/4/15 This book is NOT 1200 pages, but 484!
I thought the various time shifts in the novel were handed quite well and I found the story very easy to follow.
The novel is 600 pages long but the story could have been written in under 400 pages.
I loved the characters of Laurel, Jimmy and Vivien (I think I like her the best!) but I really despised Dorothy Smitham and Henry Jenkins.
(hide spoiler)] I did like the ending though and it did bring a smile to my face!!
definitely spoil the whole ending for you: (view spoiler)[When Henry Jenkins finds Vivien after 20 years why does he call her "Dorothy"?
3/5 starsTwo things saved this book for me: Vivien and the twist at the end. If not for that I was fully prepared to give this book 2 stars and be done with it. For starters, 480 pages is way too long for a mystery novel. Even if this is a historical fiction mystery (although there was't nearly as much history in it as I'd have liked for I love myself a good war story!) - it was just way too drawn out.Take it from Agatha Christie, the mystery queen herself, a good mystery doesn't and shouldn't b
This would have worked out so much better just as a war time story about love and jealousy - not a mystery, because surprisingly the way the mystery was solved was the most annoying component in this book.
The way the clues came to her (ohhh look all of those people kept journals and they still exist, how convenient ) and how she kept guessing correctly every time about how the story went all of those years ago - I couldn't help but roll my eyes, it was so not believable!
And if I thought that 480 pages was drawn out I can't even imagine what I would think of a mystery novel that's 600+ long.
Kate Morton is an Australian writer of meaty gothic mysteries, usually based on the uncovering of family secrets over several generations.
Within just a few years, Morton has become an internationally bestselling writer, much loved by her devoted readers.Her new novel, The Secret Keeper, begins in the 1960s with teenage Laurel, hiding in a tree house, witnessing an act of shocking violence.
So unfolds a fascinating tale of wartime London and the young Dorothy’s relationship with the glamorous Vivien and her writer husband Henry, as well as Dorothy’s faithful sweetheart Jimmy.The Secret Keeper had me reading deep into the night.
I had won the uncorrected proof of the book in a giveaway held by Tien at {http://tiensblurb.wordpress.com/} and I can't thank Tien enough for having this giveaway (and the lovely bookmark that came with it!).The first chapter brings you back to the life of 16-year old Laurel who had witnessed her mother from a faraway treehouse, seemingly stabbing a strange man in the premises of their very own home.
The once affectionate caring mother felt like a stranger, and it troubled Laurel through to her adult years.In the present day, Laurel reunites with her family as her mother’s health deteriorates.
Her research takes Laurel back in time to 1930’s England through to WWII London blitz where she discovers her mother and two other people – strangers - that could provide the answers to her mother’s darkest secret.The Secret Keeper turned out to be far better then I anticipated but it took a long time before it got to this point.
Kate Morton tells the most fantastic stories.
In this story we meet a young woman who is returning home to be by her mother’s death bed.
You see, when Laurel was a girl she witnessed her mother kill a man.
Morton once again crosses nearly a century of time in this story to ensure we, the readers, get the full story.I would love nothing more than to sit here and tell you all about this book and the characters within it.
I strongly recommend not only this book, but The Forgotten Garden as well.
Let me say first of all that this is only my second book by Kate Morton.
I have changed my favorite book to "The Secret Keeper." It's one of those books that you want to read in small increments, but can't because you don't want to let go of it.
I will go back and read the authors other books soon!
It is amazing.Thank you NetGalley for giving me the opportunity to read this wonderful book and publish an honest review.Re-read: I actually listened to this book for book club.
It was just as amazing as the first time!
The way sunlight caught the metal blade, and the moment was briefly beautiful.'In 1959, when Laurel was sixteen years old she watched as a stranger walked up her driveway, said hello to her mother, before her mother stabbed him to death.
Nothing more was ever said about the man’s death and Laurel never asked but she the memories of that day never left her.
Returning only revives the memories but this time she’s determined to finally find the answers to the mystery that has plagued her for almost her entire life.The story flashes back and forth between 1940 and present day.
Laurel witnesses a crime involving her mother when she is 16 - fast forward in time and Laurel is a successful actress whose mother is dying.
Laurel remembers what happened in the past and feels it's time to unravel the mystery of her mother's past.The story is told by Laurel in present day and her mother Dorothy and Dorothy's friend Vivian through WWII and beyond.Beautifully constructed to reach a satisfying conclusion, this book is a very enjoyable read.It's maybe a little slow in places and I had more questions about Laurel when really the focus is on Dorothy but overall a fab read I would recommend.

I was hovering around 4 stars until I got to the final chapters and the clever twist, which made it all worth while.There are a lot of back stories entwined throughout this book, but the main time frames are 2011, 1961 and 1941.In current time, Laurel, now a famous actress, returns to her childhood house to visit her ailing mother in hospital.
But the twist at the end and the final denouement made it all worth while.Definitely a book to tackle when you have some time to kill, a perfect holiday read.
I can't even. This book sucked me in hard. Kate Morton is a master storyteller, weaving an intricate web between the past and present, and the events that have shaped the lives of a family. I honestly thought I had this book figured out, and BAM! Not quite. Five bright shiny stars.
It starts slow! I couldn't get into it for the first 150-200 pages but then it really picks up and I couldn't put it down!
However, for me, The Secret Keeper is one that I can’t help but come back to every few years.First off, what attracts me to this story (and Kate Morton’s books in general), is that the characters and the tale are all expertly laid out over the course of 20 hours of listening; alternating between voices of past and present, it is impossible not to be hooked immediately.Furthermore, when it comes to characterization, Kate Morton has done a remarkable job; as a listener, I couldn't avoid forming feelings and thoughts about each character - some positive, some negative.Finally, as every listener knows, when it comes to audiobooks, the narrator is everything - and Caroline Lee was extraordinary; bringing life to an incredible tale.Overall, I honestly couldn't recommend this novel enough.
In fact, I have 'forced' two of my friends to read The Secret Keeper so that I could have someone to discuss the plot twist with.
