https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/900.The_Game
But this book tells a story of ethical tension that is, hands down, the most powerful treatise on morals and group dynamics I have ever read.
This book may make you question your unconscious assumptions or conscious decisions in this area.(I admit my assumption that female readers can also gain these things from a man's story.)Authoritarians ask their authorities (clergy, philosophers, etc.) and skip the discovery process I describe.
Esp. power over sexuality?The book is selfish.
And the only habit I have adopted since reading the book is to smile whenever I walk into a room of people I don't know.
Ultimately this peek into "the secret society of pickup artists" is not as enlightening as the cover art, book jacket and title would like us to think.
There is nothing genuine about any of it, no emotion attached.Scores of men are knowingly--and happily--being programmed to objectify, demoralize and dehumanize women in an effort to build their own self-confidence.
I think it's important for both men and women to have self-confidence.
But even at this point in the 21st century, why must one gender STILL be torn down in order for the other to feel confident?
That is an important point that is sadly overlooked.
PUAs go out, recite their lines, get phone numbers or a 'kiss close' (a girl kisses you, then leaves), then go home to type up their conquests on PUA message-boards.
One wannabe-PUA spent a weekend trying to chat up exactly 100 women - and "even managed to get a few phone numbers".
This is never mentioned again in the book, but is the most sinister aspect, crossing the line from harmless pickup routines into nonconsensual sex.Excluding that aspect, I do feel the need to defend The Game.
As the book says, women want sex just like men do, they "just don't want to be pressured, lied to, or made to feel like a slut".
This book was fucking terrible. I'm ashamed to have read it.
Probably more like a combination of actual attractiveness and good old fashioned confidence.Then a female friend described this book as "amazing" and "life-changing" and I thought "waaaaaaaatt?" O.o Especially since this friend is normally all positive energy, self love, visualization/actualization bullshit.
The various PUA artists in this book are all depicted as sad, pathetic, self-loathing, mentally unstable people who truly believe that being desirable to others will make them like themselves more.
Actually strike what I said earlier: I think I just enjoyed to read about him crying.----Ok, some background on me reading this book.
You know how there's always the shy, but kind of nice, guy in every group of men?
Physically he was the absolute opposite of those earlier male friends, but this guy had constant diet and self-improvement plans going on so it shouldn't have come as a surprise when he drunkenly confessed to having read The Game after I had previously made fun of the book at a book shop.
That the book implies that men and women are really all that different.
When I look back on those long ago days of a quarter century ago when I was single, I would have given anything to know the secrets of "Mystery" and his "Method." Just one of many examples (giving this from memory on a book I read 5 years ago): even with all self-confidence in the world and "peacocking," one should never directly go after his target, he approaches her crowd and focuses on another girl, and then as soon as he gets a chance, he gives her what pickup guys call a "neg" to give her the idea he notices her, but isn't that interested, and puts her down a rung, but not too harsh to offend.
This is a fascinating tale of a guy with marginal skills with the ladies (despite fame), who sets out on a life changing mission to master picking up women.
Strauss has written several best sellers, as well as for Rolling Stone, and literally has no competition when it comes to spinning tales of this type.
The Mystery Method: How to Get Beautiful Women Into Bed Written by the guru of the seduction community.
This is a devious sexual persuasion guide for hooking up, written by a psych doc who cruised the nightclubs with great success for a decade.
I learned that I am what, in pick up artist ("PUA") parlance, is called a "natural." I've never had problems meeting women.
I learned that my concept of what the PUA is, prior to reading this book, was wrong.
But I will add two more comments: First, viewed in a general sense, the concepts discussed in this book within the context of meeting and successfully "closing" women, can be applied to all other aspects of life.
Some writers can pull this off and still give you a good read.
If the book is an attempt at non-fiction, then the number of devotees is nothing short of tragic.Some of the recommended pick-up techniques are sinister.
Honestly, sinister soon gives way to pathetic in this book.
The Game is really a book about the fragility of male ego and how it seeks refuge from the complexity of human relations in a puerile cult of sexual conquest.I find it remarkable how Strauss races up the ranks of the pick-up fraternity even before he has procured so much as a snog from a lady.
Read this almost ten years ago and was appalled that there is a community of PUAs (Pick-Up-Artists) that go around doing all of this just to get laid.
So I read the book so I can be aware of these sleaze bags and their methods.
They actually think if they ignore her, she’ll get offended because she’s not receiving the attention she usually gets thus resulting in her talking to the guy first.
This is why men dehumanize women.
Wish more women read this disgusting book so they can be more aware of what type of predator these men can be.
Perhaps that's because it is not a game."The third reason is that if you factor out all the misogyny and silliness (a tall order, I know), then there is actually a surprising amount of good advice in here -- advice I myself would give, albeit within a different philosophical and ethical framework, to any guy who was currently lonely, bored, desperate for human contact, and terrified of talking to women -- and sadly there's a whole lot of people like that in our society, people paralyzed with anxiety and anomie wasting their lives in social and emotional vacuums.
Good thing I'm reading this for book club cuz I can't wait to discuss.
Hmm. But here's some quotes I liked:"In life, people tend to wait for good things to come to them.
This isn't because the universe is cruel.
It has its own cat-string theory and knows we don't appreciate things that fall into our laps." (p 114)"We have the idea that love is supposed to last forever.
But love isn't like that.
So don't fear love when it comes simply because it makes you vulnerable.
The right lifestyle is something that is worn, not discussed." (p 252)
One of the best things about looking through the 'Giveaways' on Goodreads is discovering new books coming out soon by authors you have read.Neil Strauss will release his new book called "The Truth" "An Uncomfortable Book about Relationships" ....sometime soon.
Strauss was very frank about his 'logical' methods: "Teaching men how to be more confident in 'picking up women'." As a woman --I had to admit --I felt many of his techniques -(as much as I might have wanted to avoid them -already married at the time anyway), --were 'spot on'!
The book felt truthful -(scary to a face this truth at times), It was nice to discover I didn't think Neil Stauss was a asshole.
The secret to picking up a woman - never show her you are interested right away, start with an insult first, about her character, the way she looks.
The self proclaimed love gurus talk a big game, but when you read further, you learn that they are nothing more than dudes who's mommies didn't hugged them enough.
And it's not just women in US who fall for this crap, the dudes are known worldwide, they travel from country to country picking up the best of the best of them.
So those are the secrets to picking up women?
So here I am, reviewing a book I haven't really read.Let's start with something important - Neil Strauss is a very talented writer, His style is not only engaging but often even literary, and I didn't just enjoy turning pages quickly but was quite comfortable in the warm bath of his prose.
While he is swept up in a world that gives him magical powers to overcome his own shortcomings (again, no pun intended), he doesn't understand that the essential problem in his sex life is that he doesn't see it as social life - in other words, he still sees women as objects, not people.
By that logic, you can bet that better, non-sociopathic candidates should rightfully have the higher ranking jobs stolen from them by unscrupulous manipulators.) It's like, these men tried everything but changing their attitudes towards women.
I've met horrible people but never sociopaths, but I imagine the experience is shocking, both that someone can live their life thinking so little of human interaction, that it's all a self-serving pleasure-based construct or whatever; and also because the attitude is near irrefutable.I'm not surprised by what happened to Strauss afterwards, since, as I suspected when reading this, he is not in fact a sociopath- which is a shame, because otherwise he could have gained lifelong satisfaction from being a pickup artist- he was just a lonely guy whose greatest hollow seduction he performed on himself.I will be interested to read his latest book also, but I don't think he should be surprised what a tough time he will have trying to reverse public opinion of him.
(If that is what you're looking for, Strauss still runs a company call "Stylelife Academy" which sells workshops and DVDs and coaching, etc.)I listened to this book (narrated by the author himself) because of course I have heard of these "Pickup Artists" and while I have no interest in playing "the Game" or becoming the sort of person they describe, it's an interesting, fascinating, somewhat pathetic subculture, but it's also instructive.

It was slightly helpful, but I was mostly struck by the pathetic nature of literally everyone in the book.
For people who devoted themselves to getting women they sure didn't have much sex.
I suspect Strauss may have meant this book to be an object lesson about how pathetic you become if you are unable to think of half of the population as people.
If so, his message was utterly confused by the pseudo-dating guide structure.
Either way this book contributes to rape culture in very real ways.
If you use this book as a guide to dating you will probably end up raping someone.
I hate this book.
It's true that I love to hate and that would be reason enough not to drop kick this book into the nearest dumpster.
I'm ashamed of the women who've fallen for all this pick-up artist bullshit and I'm ashamed of the men who wasted actual brain-power on learning how to do it.
I don't want to believe that there are hundreds of thousands of men out there who want, more than anything else in life, to be able to nail chicks that are way too hot for them.
Not just legal, but socially acceptable.
You read about all these different pick-up schools, each with an egomaniac at the top, that operate like cults and compete for business and clients and demand loyalty.The book is about the story of his involvement and then disillusionment with the pick-up community.
It’s not a manual on to how to pick up women, even through there are lots of advice and sample field reports scattered throughout the book.
The part about the manipulative psychological mind games, however, is interesting (and useful).Strauss is honest about the emptiness and loneliness that eventually come with this lifestyle.
“If there was anything I'd learned, it's that the man never chooses the woman.
All he can do is give her an opportunity to choose him.” This is not a normal book read for me.
I got it for my husband after he heard the author on the Howard Stern show.
I will say that this is definitely a book geared for men but if you are an open minded female it is an interesting enough story that of one man’s journey from a total average boy next door struggling to get a date, into a super mac daddy to a man w
I will say that this is definitely a book geared for men but if you are an open minded female it is an interesting enough story that of one man’s journey from a total average boy next door struggling to get a date, into a super mac daddy to a man who learned what it meant to really connect with someone else.The journey was full of interesting people and ideas.
The story of Mystery and the workshops he was running for men to learn how to seduce women were crazy and it was hard to believe that someone would walk around in complete peacock fashion but I’ve seen pictures since reading the book and it would seem that the portrayal him was pretty accurate.
The pick up artist subtly insults the girl (but not so much that she's repelled) and doesn't pay all that much attention to her until right before he 'closes.' This brings me to the second distasteful part- the lingo.
The reason I gave it a low rating though is because people are still using it as a manual on how to talk to women.
Many of the kind of women these guys target have low self esteem and are easy pickings.
The end result, even coming from a pick up artist himself, isn't pretty.
The author, Neil Strauss, has ghost written some celebrity memoirs, and writes for Rolling Stone and the New York Times.
The thing that makes this book so interesting is the author's running monologue about gender, specifically masculinity and the ways that boys and men are taught to think about women.
And this is the most interesting part of the book: Neil Strauss eventually catches on to the fact that the pick up artist subculture that he is a part of is really a community of men.
It is the men that share the emotional attachments, not the women they pick up.
For a book that targets (and caters very well to) young males, "The Game" truly belongs in the hands of a twenty-something cynic.Parts of the story read like a self-help book, which was very funny in and of itself.
(I'll tell you why, because when you're stuck in the London Heathrow passenger terminal for 6 hours and you have to make a choice between a black leather-bound #1 seller and something about sisterhood and traveling pants, you choose "The Game".)That said, it passed the time.
ANTI-PUAS When I first noticed that title, on a site like Jezebel, I just naturally assumed it was a place devoted to dissecting what's so broken and wrong about pick up artist culture.
Trying to use the standard pick up artist tactics from these books is like asking "Why did the chicken cross the road?" Most people are at least passingly familiar with the concept, and will not be impressed.
In fact, there's a glossary, but the glossary didn't cover every term I wanted (evolution phase shift?) Even so, there were so many people out "sarging" (picking up girls) that they developed their own styles and terminology to go with it.The story is basically how Style met Mystery, learned to pick up women, got good at it, rose to the apex of what they though possible, and watched as everything crashed and burned around them.
In fact, as the story progresses to the point where Style, Mystery, and the other pickup artist gurus are living in a mansion in Hollywood, Style points out that "Project Hollywood" (the name for their bachelor pad) is remarkably devoid of women.
Price: around $1,500 for a 3 night lesson.Mystery's life goal is oddly specific: He wants a long-term relationship with two bi-sexual women, one Asian and one blonde, who will be lovers as well as assistants for his magic show.
According to this book they are as follows: (1) reality show contestant, (2) married and monogamous, though somehow marrying a party girl they met at a club using manipulative techniques doesn't lead to a healthy long-term relationship, (3) devoutly religious, trading one form of ecstasy for another and trying to fill the God-shaped hole with an actual God, and (4) dating Courtney Love's guitarist.Oddly compelling and highly recommended.
This book details a journalist who went undercover to explore the underground community of a few guys that run seminars for transforming themselves from AFCs (average frustrated chumps) to master PUAs (pick-up artists).
Part of the book details the seminars, which include in-the-field portions, where the teacher and students go to clubs so the teachers can show off their skills at picking up women.
In another scene, a teacher was trying to pick up a girl by performing some magic tricks and her boyfriend threatened him with a gun after he asked about seeing her again.
