https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34284.The_Chronicles_of_Chrestomanci_Vol_1
Long before J.K. Rowling ever invented Harry Potter, Diana Wynne Jones penned the Chrestomanci series, in which children perform magic (or fail to do so) in worlds which resemble ours but are ever so slightly different. Like Rowling, Jones infused her fantasy novels for children with enough wit and interesting ideas to make them appealing to adult readers; unlike Rowling, she never made it big, although one of her books,  Howl's Moving Castle , was adapted into an enjoyable anime movie by Hayao
Jones understands children well, which makes it easy to identify with her young protagonists, even if they occasionally perform acts of magic to which few of us can aspire.The first story in this two-book volume, Charmed Life, is set in a world which vaguely resembles today's England but seems a bit more old-fashioned and, well, magical.
When the story opens, Cat and Gwendolen are taken to live with Chrestomanci, a mysterious man whose castle oozes magic and whose assistants are to teach them witchcraft.
As I recall, the accusation was largely based on these facts:(i) Harry Potter and Cat Chant are both young, male, British wizards who also happen to be orphans (and the reviewer inaccurately claimed that Cat wore glasses).(ii) Harry and Cat are both taken to a place to learn magic.(iii) What, you need more evidence of plagiarism than that?!They also leveled their accusing pen at Neil Gaiman for daring to write The Books of Magic, featuring a young, British, bespectacled boy learning about magic.Needless to say, Diana Wynne Jones has been writing excellent -- and ORIGINAL -- novels since before J.K. Rowling was alive (and so has Gaiman).
I was introduced to Diana Wynne Jones by Miyazaki's animated version of her book, "Howl's Moving Castle", which I enjoyed reading after seeing the film.
This first volume of "The Chronicles" is composed of two separate novels, "Charmed Life", and "The Lives of Christopher Chant".
"Charmed Life" centers around Cat Chant and his sister Gwendolen, two orphans who are adopted by the enigmatic Chrestomanci, and their escapades at Chrestomanci Castle.
His early years read like the dream-like, wonder-filled memories most of us form of our youngest childhood days, and as Christopher ages, the writing style becomes gradually more sophisticated and elaborate.
For Christmas this year, my sister asked us instead of buying her a present, if as our gift to her we would read any book she chose for us.
Which reminded my sister of the Twelve Related Worlds.
Although it’s not time travel – but rather world hopping of sorts.The Twelve Related Worlds are the only known “Worlds” out there.
Within each World though, is a series of worlds.
There are 9 worlds in a series – meaning there are 9 of you out there somewhere.
(First read in May 2011. Re-read in March 2016)Diana Wynne Jones's writing is the literary equivalent of a delicious cup of cocoa. :)
Review from A Journey Through PagesNow Diana Wynne Jones has been one of my favourite authors for about 8 years now, ever since I read Year of the Griffin.
It became my before-bed wind-down book because its simplicity was perfect for me to unwind to with a cup of herbal tea in bed.Of the two, Charmed Life was my favourite as I found myself enjoying the character of Cat more than the character of Christopher, though there was a joy in reading the second book as you knew by then who Christopher is in the first and making the connections was exciting.(More to Review on Blog)
I love the concept at the heart of these two books: the many worlds theory is true; some of these worlds use magic.
I particularly love the character of the embodied Godddess, as well as Throgmorten.
I don't even mind too much that Edwardian notions of birth-based class were transferred into a magic-using Britain, where the servants are sadly deficient in innate skill (which is somehow less offensive that the quite powerful house-elves being enslaved in Harry Potter, because of their race).
Forgive me the pun, but the books really are enchanting.
Diana Wynne Jones is just a fantastic writer. I loved both Charmed Life and The Lives of Christopher Chant. I want to be Chrestomanci when I grow up.Disappointed to find a few points of colonialism/orientalism/racism in Charmed Life but was glad to see the inclusion of a brown-skinned (the way he's described he sounds Black to me) character in The Lives of Christopher Chant but then again, his people are really cruel, but smart, so... I'm betwixt and between on that.
I absolutely loved this book when I was younger, and it was actually one of the most influential novels of my childhood. I really need to read this book again as an adult, because no matter what my change in perspective will do to the story, I am pretty sure I will enjoy it for the sentimental value alone.
This book is very magical. I like the way that it makes the magical things around the characters more or less common practice. I really like that each of the magical spells that are cast seem to have some kind of a cost. It is just very good, as is volume two.
Cute Book, I think if you liked Harry Potter, you may like this.
It's been awhile since I read these, but I recall them as being great fun.
Even though I haven't read a lot of Diana Wynne Jones, I think it's safe to say that all of her books are similar in the sense that they all have magic, adventures and interesting characters.
It did make me look forward to reading more about the world and the characters in the series.Review for The Lives of Christopher Chant:The Lives of Christopher Chant occurs a couple of years before Charmed Life and it's about the childhood of Christopher Chant, the Chrestomanci in Charmed Life.
Although Christopher couldn't do magic, he can travel between the worlds.
=P^^^^It was a bit exasperating to read, I admit, but overall it's pretty good - I'm such a sucker for magic/magicians/enchanters/etc, etc.^^^^I enjoyed the second book, The Lives of Christopher Chant, a lot more.
Found it more interesting and funnier.^^^^I love the development Christopher goes through and how you find out that some things can be traced to the first book (but then I suppose that's one of the reasons why it's a series =P).
^^^^I suppose what I mean is that it was pretty easy for me to go \"oh yeah!
Children are interested in the story after all, which they get more readily by relating to those who inhabit the newly discovered world.
I look at the page and get no answers to whatever I might be asking.Crestomanci's world is full of interesting things, but not one I feel many people would say 'Gosh, I wish I lived there'.
I read fantasy precisely for the atmosphere and in general I read books because of the characters, so please Jones give me more insight into the characters in the rest of the Crestomanci series and I'll have to praise the world building.
She writes children's stories but uses a straightforward adult style to tell them, so it's difficult to decide where these books fit as you're going along.
What keeps me coming back to this very prolific author is that any of her books is always guaranteed to be entertainingly creative about the magic in the stories.
In this case, I read the first 50 pages a couple of years ago and lost interest because I couldn't figure out where the story was headed at all by that point.
He finally begins to understand and the book abruptly ended.
I did end up reading The Lives of Christopher Chant and I liked it a whole lot more.
So, I would definitely read the Chrestomanci books in a different order.
As I got on to post my review, I found this list from the author of the order she would read the books.The Lives of Christopher ChantConrad's FateCharmed Life*"Warlock at the Wheel"*"The Sage of Theare"Witch WeekThe Magicians of Caprona*"Stealer of Souls"*"Carol Oneir's Hundredth Dream"The Pinhoe Egg*short stories published in Mixed Magics
I can't believe it took me this long to actually read these books!
I'm a huge Neil Gaiman and he talks a lot about Wynne Jones, but I also kept hearing it as a substitute for Harry Potter withdrawals and none of those recommendations has ever worked for me, but to be honest this fit the bill.
I like that Wynne Jones doesn't write anything too precious and there are some truly vicious/unlikable characters in her books, but there are some pretty great ones too.
Can't recommend enough.
Diana Wynne Jones created very different and unique worlds in the story.
Although I had to re-read some parts to understand what's going on, she included many clear, interesting details of the places.
I really enjoyed being sucked into the magical world of Chrestomanci while reading this book.
Another cool thing about how this book is written is the order in which the two stories (of Cat and Christopher) is told.
Even though Cat's stories came after Christopher's, Diana Wynne Jones put the story of Christopher after Cat's.
This made it very exciting to solve the mysteries of each of the characters in their worlds.
The second book, The Lives of Christopher Chant, is simply -- and I believe this is the official term -- amazeballs. Millie may be one of the best characters ever, and Throgmorton, Christopher, and Tacroy are pretty delightful as well. Everything ends very happily and nicely, but that's okay with me. Reading Diana Wynne Jones always cheers me up.
I don't know why these YA novels did not catch on as well as the Harry Potter books, for the ingredients are much the same, though Wynne Jones keeps the series fairly tight and doesn't succumb to the bloat of the later books in the Harry Potter series. There are four Crestomanci books, and they can be read independently.
Book about witchcraft and a kind boy with a crazily mean and uncaring sister in contrast to himself. He can't do magic and she can. What is up with that? FYI, the beginning, for me, was slightly uninteresting, but gets really good at the end. So keep reading!
I still have to process some of this, but wow, what a book!
Charmed Life Follows the story of Cat, i.e. Eric Chant, who finds himself an orphan taken in, with his sister, by the enigmatic Chrestomanci in Chrestomanci Castle.
At the Castle, several plot points converge with a vengeance - there is crisis, Christopher shows his worth, and the story is concluded with satisfaction.In this book, Jones really shows her talent for characterization, for we have a wider cast of characters that are unique without being flat, and looking at Christopher as a child, it is possible to see him grow into the Chrestomanci of Charmed Life without feeling he was prematurely mature or retroactively created (as, indeed, he must have been).These praises said, I would have liked a little more within the rich world of the Chrestomanci.
i have always wondered why his name was 'cat' but then i knew and i was like OHHHH!!5.
the fact that she put her brother's lives in a matchbox!
i loved the fact that when someone mentions Chrestomanci he appears out of now where!!Charmed life is 5 shinning stars, i loved the story so freakin' much that i wanna read it again!----------------------------------------------------(The Lives of Christopher Chant)I did not hesitate to start the next book!!
i can see how christopher carelessly wasted his lives which makes since back in 'Charmed Life' how he was all angry at Cat for burning a match!6.
This first volume of Jones' Chrestomanci Chronicles are two novels: Charmed Life and The Lives of Christopher Chant, that can stand alone pretty well but fit together nicely also.So, these books were originally published 20 years before Harry Potter and I just have to believe that they influenced it somehow.
He's ineffective when he does try to do things which makes him a comic and sympathetic protagonist.In the second book, Christopher is much more in control of himself in the ways that Cat was not but remarkably not in control of himself in other ways.As realization dawns on both boys, the stories spill out wonderfully.
After seeing her praised by Neil Gaiman as well as having my best friend relentlessly recommend this series, I finally got around to reading this book.It's a bit difficult to review this volume since it is actually two separate novels (Charmed Life and The Lives of Christopher Chant), but I'll start off by saying that they are both delightful and I enjoyed them immensely.
I love so many characters (Cat, Janet, Christopher, and Millie to name a few), and her way of writing suits her genre perfectly and creates a very immersive experience.
This book is actually two completely different stories (both set in the same "universe"): Charmed Life and The Lives of Christopher Chant. Both are marvelous tale of unimportant boys who turn out well. I read through the 600 pages of both stories quickly. It was a delight! Harry Potter is depressing in comparison. No evil presence grows stronger and Stronger and STRONGER. I almost gave my highest rating, but the boys are a little bit of rascals.The second story, The Lives of Christopher Chant, takes place at least 25 years before the first story. Kinda' like a prequel.
Wynne Jones was possessed of a fine imagination, a cool eye for the failings of the English middling classes, a wicked sense of humour and a capacity to write good prose. All her books are worth reading. The Chrestomanci series is an excellent introduction to her work, featuring a magical policeman whose job it is to ensure that those who possess magical talents do not abuse them.. Chrestomanci himself is not always the central character, but usually turns up to nudge the plot in the desired direction.
Jones books are a cozy visit to childhood for me. Her descriptions are vivid, her main characters likable, but imperfect, and her magical worlds are such inventive fun! Besides which, she always has a plot that is climatic, but actually makes sense, and is fun to read through even when you've read it so many times you already remember who the villain is and how it will all come together. Intellectually understanding how hard that is to pull off just makes them even more enjoyable to read.
