https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10621554-living-alone
There is a lot more going on here than it might seem from the author's note quoted above, and for me it was all wonderful."Now witches and wizards, as you perhaps know, are people who are born for the first time.
Remembering nothing, they know nothing, and are not bored." Even though Benson says the book does not deal with real people, I cannot help but wonder if our two female leads are aspects of her own character.
I know I am not really saying too much about the book, but I really can't right now.
But there are in the world so many real books already written for the benefit of real people, and there are still so many to be written, that I cannot believe that a little alien book such as this, written for the magically-inclined minority, can be considered too assertive a trespasser.It's half a sort of feminist Wodehouse-ish satire of upper-middle-class ladies and their "good works" during WWI...and half a strange but lovable fantasy adventure about a witch who runs a boardinghouse for people who want to live alone.Here is the first paragraph, which I immediately fell in love with:There were six women, seven chairs, and a table in an otherwise unfurnished room in an unfashionable part of London.
Available on Project Gutenberg.I thought this was a fascinating, amusing little book, (though I wouldn't have wanted it to be much longer) It's a tale of witches and magic, set during the First World War. Much of the background ( not the magic!) comes from Stella Benson's own experiences.
Which I think may be SB's point.Here's an interesting article about the book and SB:http://fantasy.glasgow.ac.uk/stella-b...I ended up reading quite a lot of background about SB, whom I'd never heard of.
The background really interests me.
She seems to be a 'forgotten' writer; hopefully more interest will develop in her at some stage.Apparently this novel is a precursor to Lolly Willowes, which is another book I'm planning to read this year.
I wish I could write like Stella Benson, though without the casual anti-Semitism.
There is some extraordinary writing in this book -- it skates on the edge of tweeness without falling unforgivably over, I think, but many might and probably would differ.
But it's the kind of style a lot of writers try for but fail to achieve, with dismal results.I liked the desolateness of the House of Living Alone, and the idea of witches and wizards being witches and wizards because they have been born for the first time.
I think it failed to retain the emotional significance it could've had if she'd managed it more neatly.
Still of course manners are very small change and count for very little; the violet, being an artist, is entitled to any manners it likes, while the daisy has no temperament whatever, and no excuse for eccentricity.
Fire is of course a plaything in magic hands.
There is no power that can mock at space, there is no enchantment that is not lost between us and the moon, and all magic people know — and tremble to know — that in a breath, between one second and another, that Hand may close, and the shell of time first crack and then be crushed, and magic be one with nothingness and death and all other delusions.
If this novel has a story at all it is hers, and it’s about her ‘alone-ness’: not the independence, self-sufficiency and self-centredness of the wizards and witches, nor the inauthentic conventionality of the ordinary world, Sarah Brown’s inability to fit into either world is the one sadness in what is an otherwise self-declared ‘book of fine weather’.And it is, in the main, a book of ‘fine weather’ — of nonsense, magic, light satire and humour — despite being set during the First World War. Chapter 6 sees ‘our witch’ encountering a German counterpart in the night skies of London during a bombing raid:"We are Crusaders," said the German.
A bit too twee for me, but she still writes brilliantly and has a great sense of humour

This is such a strange book. Yes, there is a plot and there are characters, but it's all about the mood, so it felt a bit like a collection of picturesque scenes. It's very visual - everything is described as looking like something else - and I think it would be an excellent graphic novel or illustrated picture book, or even an artsy film. Then again, it has witches fighting above the clouds of London during WW1 so you might not want to miss it.
Sweet little novel about a witch and a social worker in WWI era London. There is some flying about on a sentient broomstick, some landscaping work in a faery garden, and a few poignant observations about human life and loneliness in the shadow of hard times. It safely treads ground others have walked before and since, but is still a charming story in its own right.
Charming, funny, and magical.
A deeply odd book - Part comedy of manners lampooning respectable society types attempting to be "Charitable", part surrealist anti-war satire, part screwball farce, part musing on depression and loneliness, where passages of poetic lyricism sit alongside mawkish tweeness. It's a hot mess, but a fascinating one, and gets an extra star just for not really being like anything else.If I did have to make a comparison, possibly the best way to describe it would be "P.G. Wodehouse's Catch-22."
This is a very odd book, not that that isn't pretty much the default setting for Stella Benson. I could try and assimilate it to that wider fantastical/whimsical tendency among Edwardian/Georgian writers, but it's so out there and uncosy about it (no mopey Pierrots). It's also a war novel set in London during air-raids - and perhaps the way she does it was the only way to convey the chaos and muddle of what it felt like.
This is a charming book. The author's voice is fresh, playful, and provocative. Her prose evokes large questions about Life, the Universe, and Everything with such a light touch that you wonder if fairies have taken over your meaning-making apparatus. I am simply delighted.
This book started out really funny and clever, but I couldn't get past the anti-Semitism.
Perfect.
Weird - and also extraordinarily reminded me of Howl's Moving Castle
Unique, inventive.. and it has its own view
This odd little tale is about a witch during WWI, and her surreal effects upon the various charity workers and soldiers she meets.
It is a patchy story, with very little in the way of plot or tension.
The language is by turns infuriating and enchanting."Directly he spoke, one saw that he was making the usual effort of magic to appear real.
Witches and wizards lead difficult lives because they have no ancestry working within them to prompt them in the little details.
Whenever you see a person being unusually grown-up, suspect them of magic.
First heard about this on NPR (http://www.npr.org/templates/story/st...), then it popped it up on the Stanford post-doc book club list for the upcoming spring meeting.Currently reading the free copy on Project Gutenberg -- woot. (http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/14907)It's about a witch island for misanthropists on the Thames. Need I say more?
An odd little book. Not too sure how to describe it, concerning as it does witches, wizards, magic and an airborne broomsticck fight between an English and a Bosche witch. A nother freebie on my Kindle.
This book was recommended on OPB by a PSU professor of literature as a fun Halloween read. Written in 1919, it's a tale of witches in London during WWI, who get in trouble with the law for flying without authorization (broomsticks, of course). But it isn't very well written, and much of it drags.
Read this book because it was on a list of books with well-written but unlikable protagonists. I found her quite charming, should I be alarmed about what this says about me? Some lovely moments of lyrical prose mixed with a clear fast-paced narrative. A rare but wonderful combination.
This was....odd. I'm glad I read it, but I'm not quite sure how to classify it. The writing was erratic and the storytelling went in jumps and starts. Very fun concept on witches and wizards, though. And English vs. German witches in the middle of the Blitz was priceless!
Interesting book. The writing is bonkers, the plot is off the wall crazy, and the characters are kooky. It's sort of feminist and certainly seems ahead of its time.
I love this book. It is funny, nonsensical, and serious. I find it extremely sad and It really leaves me with a scene of loneliness. I have read it three times, one of my all time favorites...
Definitely a commentary of WWI England. Didn't get many references to that time and what was current then. Some lovely sentences and interesting writing style. Worth reading.
Odd.
I'll leave the content review to others. However, it should be noted that, although I don't think the book is racist, there are some potentially triggering words.
