https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3109.The_Omnivore_s_Dilemma
After leaving the farm, most of the corn finds its way to the Confined Animal Feeding Operation (CAFO) where it is fed to cows, pigs, chicken, turkey, and now even fish.
The consumers can look the farmer in the eyes and see that the food is produced "with care and without chemicals." They are also keeping the moeny in the community by supporting local farmers.Part 3- The ForestHis final meal is from ingredients derived from Pollan's owe efforts through hunting and gathering.
(The author lives about 30 minutes drive from me and I recognized many of the locations in the book.) The corn section (about the deliberate infusion of corn products into just about every processed food) made me determined to cut way down on the processed foods that I often eat: the one real way this book changed me, not an insignificant one.A good part of this (apparently beloved) book seemed to me to be the author’s belabored argument that it’s perfectly fine to eat animals.
However, there is usually a fairly large group of people absolutely pissed off by the book (or film) because it simplifies or overlooks some crucial matter or matters.I'm aware that Pollan made it all the way to Oprah, and I didn't want to be what some call an "Oprah sheep," but I just couldn't hate The Omnivore's Dilemma no matter how hard I tried.Pollan goes into quite a bit of detail throughout the book, but in a general way, we could say that he examines the American supermarket and notices that it seems to present food in a way that is detached from the production of food, particularly the natural processes on which food production relies.
If food production was a spectrum, then the industrial (monoculture, feedlots, preservatives, processed foods, and international shipping) and the personal (hunter / gatherer) would be at opposing ends.
Even though, I don't know, something like a million billion people have been living that way for pretty much forever?
Also thanks for your total lack of solutions for people who can't afford or don't have access to organically grown local fuckin cows that got to play dress-up whenever they wanted up until Temple Grandin killed them.
Actually, thanks for your total lack of solutions to anything (besides 'get your friend to clean the pig you shoot,' SPOILER).It's just...
It was the only way he could imagine of dragging these poor souls out of the horrendous world of ignorance and fear that clungs to them like the mud that sticks to their boots.I think many people may feel this book looses its way towards the end – particularly where he goes off to hunt and gather his own food to prepare his final meal.
If I had lots more time on my hands I would like to write an Australian version of this book, about where our food comes from and the costs of the inputs into producing it.
Its four different sections break up the book nicely (you could read one section a month, for example, if your reading time is limited), and it is also coming out in convenient paperback form next month.In the book, Michael Pollan traces the history and ingredients of four different meals: one from McDonald's, one from Whole Foods market, one from a small farm in Virginia, and one composed of ingredients that he gathered (and killed) on his own.
However, even if you are unable to rustle around in the woods for wild boar or visit a fire-blackened forest to pick morel mushrooms, as Pollan does, you will come away from the book re-energized with the commitment to eat locally and sustainably.
After reading books like these, I'm not sure what to eat anymore.
Michael Pollan, a sort of food journalist, doesn't always give you the kind of clear-cut answers you'd like if you're reading books like this in order to learn what's healthy for your body and what's not.
However, here are two important things I did learn:#1 - Eating only one thing is not good for you in the long run.#2 - Corn is in nearly everything we eat these days.America grows corn.
In the past, I've read other Pollan books and they were good, but for some reason I held off on this one.
Also, the idea of getting all of your meat from nearby sustainable family farms who do their own slaughter and processing is really great in theory but then won't it become a class issue when only rich people can afford it?
Oh and lots of his numbers were way off...he said we kill millions of animals a year for food in this country, more like BILLIONS.
I talked to a guy yesterday who worked in a chicken slaughtering line in a prison way back when and said that he was responsible for personally killing 8,000 birds a day.
He takes a close look at the industrialization of food production (which depends heavily and crazily on corn), large scale organic farming, and then at a sustainable farming operation, and then around a meal that he assembles using his hunting and gathering skills (relying heavily on the skills of others).For our family, this book seems perfectly timed, since we've been making huge dietary changes around here since Halloween, cutting out animal products and most refined and processed foods.
America, Rod Dreher identifies a strain of libertarian conservatism, often evangelical, that regards fast food as anathema to family values, and has seized on local food as a kind of culinary counterpart to home schooling.Major editing 5/23/2010 about half the content identical to my review of Foer's Eating Animals.minor editing 4/16/10Let's see, things we can't or shouldn't eat: butter, steak, meat, spinach because of the salmonella (or maybe it's only the organic spinach that gets contaminated), apples because of the alar, salt, sugar, fat, any food not bought at a farmer's market, any food bought at a non-union grocery, any food bought at a chain, any food that's not organic, any food that's labeled organic by the USDA because their standards aren't strict enough, kosher food, non-kosher, non-grass fed beef (and now we've learned that grass-fed beef is salmonella contaminated, too -http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12...,) pasteurized milk, raw milk, etc.
Are you just tired about hearing about the exhaustive origins of your food at every fancy restaurant?Do you wish your hipster friends would stop trying to get you to forage for mushrooms?Then I've got the book for you!I'd been taking down the audiobook of Pollan's The Omnivore's Dilemma: A Natural History of Four Meals intermittently for months.
That Pollan is more of an everyman makes the listening experience more enjoyable, relatable, and helped me feel as if I could make some changes to my diet that would be more sustainable.
A wise man recently told me, "Capitalism is here to stay." With that in mind, Michael Pollan's The Omnivore's Dilemma is a feel good guide to consumerism at its most sustainable, organic, locally grown, and ultimately high-end.
In one chapter Pollan indulges in the quintessential American family experience of ordering 2 Big Macs, super-sized fries, and a Happy Meal.
For most people, eating is not a ritual to be shared with the family and support local businesses.
Pollan's omnivore's dilemma comes down to what to eat and how to eat it when you have the time and means to contemplate.
This discussion goes in two directions: backwards, into our evolutionary development, to ask why is it we so enjoy food that isn’t good for us; and currently, looking at our consumer “preferences”: why is it our national (and, increasingly, global) diet is even less healthy than even our natural inclinations have historically made it?The other hot topic examines the many ways in which feeding the human race has become very bad for the planet and its inhabitants, especially those we eat.
As Salatin puts it, “You can buy honestly priced food or you can buy irresponsibly priced food.” A McDonald’s meal may be cheaper than an organic/local one, but that price tag doesn’t take into account the environmental toll of cheap beef and corn.Pollan’s assessment of the ethics of eating meat is not quite as thorough as Jonathan Safran Foer’s (in Eating Animals), but he does a good job of showing all sides of the issue, and is honest about his own difficulty in killing for food – a chicken at Polyface, and a wild pig he shot in the forests of California to produce a mostly foraged local feast.
remember when this book, written by a proud meat-eater, accidentally made me a vegetarian?Okay, but seriously, I'd recommend giving this a read.
Give the teen version a read if you really can't take a 450-page nonfiction book.
Either way, I think everyone needs to know exactly how the food industry works.
And no, it's not advocating for you to become a vegetarian - it's simply showing truths.
The lack of attempt to guilt readership is honestly what stands out about this book.
I truly think this book is worth the read.
Michael Pollan is anti-science.He blames scientists for the misappropriation of scientific language in advertising. He touts folk wisdom.I saw him at a book reading and asked him why he is critical of science. He said the science is too easy to abuse, so it should just be ignored.This is horrible advice. Ignorance doesn't solve anything.It leaves people vulnerable to those who would mislead and deceive them.
His hunting expedition takes up far bigger chunk of the book than the measly slim chapter on the ethics of eating animals.
This book should be titled Michael Pollan's Dilemma since it does little to address "The Omnivore's Dilemma" once he completely forgoes examining the main sources of American meat--factory farming--and instead focuses on two exceptions to the rule.Before starting this book, I knew I wasn't going to agree with Pollan's conclusion, but I did at least expect that its role of raising food awareness would still allow me to recommend it to others.
While my grandpa grew corn to sell to buyers like Blaney and Stauffer, we didn’t feed the corn to our animals – they received baled hay of alfalfa and wheat, or at the grass in the pasture they roamed every day.
Hunting and fishing (another thing we did a lot of) was not a sport, it was a way of life – it was a way to feed our family.While I liked this book for the memories of childhood lessons it conjured for me, it also helped to remind me of my ideals around food.
To structure his book, he uses the format of following the path of four finished meals from origin to plate - one McDonald's meal, one comprised of supermarket organic products, one from a "beyond-organic" self-sustaining farm in Virgina, and one he forages almost entirely on his own.
Pollan makes a strong case for how corn and its refined offspring have contributed to the ever-expending girths of Americans in recent decades.Next he looks at the organic market, examining the compromises that many organic producers have had to make to support the demands of national chains like Whole Foods, and what "organic" does and does not necessarily mean.
Well worth reading, though a second, scientific perspective (read "not Schlosser") would be a good companion to fill out what this book offers.
Pollan comes off a lot more like a homespun wisdom-spewing grandma than someone with an arguable thesis, at least as he presents it in this book.
I thought the book would redeem itself when Pollan hunted his own meal.
In the end, much was conjectured (some of which was interesting enough to earn the book two stars) but the only thing I learned was that we eat a lot of corn and that Michael Pollan is a nancy-man sham.
I first came across him in a documentary called Cooked, and I loved the way he talked about fresh food.
Pollan also goes into the meat processing industry, and we get to see the sorry state of the cows.
Pollan even has issues with industrial organic products, because of the fact that the criteria for labelling anything organic is kept low to help big companies make money.As an alternative, Pollan describes family-run farm businesses, which incorporate a healthy and full life for the animals before they are slaughtered for meat.
The variety of crops and meat means that these farms are also better for the environment overall.
He researches the 3 different processes that go into 3 types of meals: an industrially produced meal (McDonald's), an organic meal (Whole Foods) and a hunter/gatherer meal (he kills/collects everything he eats for this meal).
The maize of South America gave way to our current industrialized food system that relies tremendously on mass produced and genetically modified corn.
Industrial farms feed cattle and chickens corn because it is cheaper to store a bunch of cattle or chickens in a confined animal feeding operation (CAFO) rather than letting them roam on a pasture and eat a natural diet of grass and insects (for the chickens).
The Omnivore's Dilemma should rightfully deserve credit for bring issues of food into popular discussion.
After an embarrassing agricultural crisis involving price fixing from the Soviet Union in the 1970s, Butz announced a new policy of expanding government subsides to a new system - the more one farmed, the more subsides they would receive to cover increase costs.
Sweeteners and sugars became a staple of nearly every food product sold, from HFCS to 'Xanthan gum'.
The modern systems of production are already far too complex for something like that.
Pollen takes the reader on a food adventure that is thought provoking, disturbing and quietly challenges they way we all look at the meal in front of us - all without being obnoxious or righteous.The book begins simply enough in an Iowa cornfield as Pollen breaks down the history of corn and the future of this simple grain.
The middle portion of the books moves into sustainable agriculture at its finest as he spends a week at Polyface farm.
Pollen starts the week on his stomach in a field examining the soil, he helps to move the cows from pasture to pasture, he assists in moving the chicken pens and describes they symbiotic relationship between the chickens and the cows.
It really, truly is.In thoughtful, clear, and inticing prose (much like a fine wine), Pollan leds the reader down a menu of food.
It is frightening how much corn is in things; the second section looks at organic foods and farm foods (or post organic), and the third concerns Pollan hunting and gathering his own food.
The section where Pollan discusses his own hunting is interesting because Pollan himself is not ashamed or afarid to show the reader his exhilaraion and shame.
Even the section on corn is an interesting and thought provoking reader.
This guy deserves an extra star just for the sheer depth of his coverage! I don't necessarily agree with some of his conclusions, but I admire the way he went out there and immersed himself in the topics he was studying.Books like this always make me feel good about the changes I've made in my eating habits over the last few years as well as motivating me to remain vigilant when I start to get lazy.I look forward to trying more of this author's books.
A more accurate subtitle for this book would be “An Ecology of Four Meals.” The ecological perspective permits Pollan to focus on questions of sustainability, and social and environmental cost, as opposed to the point of purchase price visible to the consumer.
Is there a sustainable alternative?Pollan shifts his examination to the organic food movement.
Pollan concludes:  “The big question is whether the logic of an industrial food chain can be reconciled to the logic of the natural systems on which organic agriculture has tried to model itself.
Early in the book Pollan laments the absence of a national food culture in America.
I’ve long had a problem with the way we raise meat in this country, and the lack of connection between people and their food.
Despite reading much about early life on the prairie, somehow I had never considered that even meat was seasonal, or that foods grown out of season lack the nutrition that we think we are getting.
Nor had I valued the waste of petroleum in shipping year round under-nourished produce from Argentina to the US just so that we could eat whatever fruit or veggie that we want, despite its lack of flavor.Perhaps the greatest thing that came from this was the conversations with my husband.
I know I will never look at corn the same way, nor will I ever buy the "cheap eggs."(On obesity)"Very simply, we subsidize high-fructose corn syrup in this country, but not carrots.
Where in the world has everybody gone?"(About his temporary trial of vegetarianism)"What troubles me most about my vegetarianism is the subtle way it alienates me from other people."(About mushroom hunting, just because it made me laugh) "I found myself, idiotically, taunting the morels whenever a bunch of them suddenly popper out.
There is nothing more excruciating than having to read a book you're uninterested in for class.
I can't really say this book was a waste of my time though because i gained some useful knowledge from it and some parts equally annoyed me but what more can i expect from a book riddled with self righteous prose from an author who writes in a way that sets him up on the "right" moral pedestal?
This may not have been his intention but i do not care either way.
I am just glad i finished it and i hope to never be subjected to the torture of reading a book i have no interest in, for class again.
