https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/369691.By_the_Waters_of_Babylon
I was also impressed with how well thought out it was and how many clues there were to what was going on.
At first, I didn't get that ASHING was George wASHINGton, and I didn't understand why the main character was so obsessed with food in a jar.
That's why they only eat meat and good hunters are so important.
And I also think that the "quest" the priests go on… they all go to the place where the main character did.
They do that so that someone in each generation will know why it's important not to become too knowledgeable, like the people who were destroyed.
By the Waters of Babylon is a post-apocalyptic short story written in 1937.
That's right, a post-apocalyptic story made before the A-bombs were dropped and even before World War II even started.
The book is very much ahead of its time, and I respect it for that.
It follows a young man as he enters the forbidden "Place of the Gods" which we soon discover is a bombed city.
Again, By the Waters of Babylon was genius for the time it was written, but now it just seems generic.
I read this in the morning of the day people are to gather all over the world to move world leadership to stop the destruction of the world's climate and at the end of a week in which Congress voted again to go to war. Stephen Vincent Benet was a prophet and this is his lamentation. Let us pray with it.
Again, word choice and phrasing are important to the success of the story, and once the ending is revealed, the class could write about or talk about the importance of word choice in order to achieve a desired effect.
Word choice in that article gives us the sense that these “Nacirema” are a backwards people, when in fact the author is pointing out common tendencies in American culture.
I think that would be a good follow-up reading because it further emphasizes word choice and the idea of how we can (and maybe should) distance ourselves from our culture in order to analyze it.
Great first person descriptions of a post apocalyptic world where our everyday world is described from the perspective of someone unfamiliar with it.The human quest for knowledge is sometimes dangerous but cannot be extinguished.
Thanks to my 9th and 11th grade English teacher, Mr. Bob Schevchik, for having us read brilliant science fiction. He had us read a ton of short stories. If you haven't read any SS since high school or college, run to the library! When well done, they are priceless.
Benét tells the tale of John, a young man living in what seems to be a primitive society.
He breaks their ultimate rule by heading to the "Place of the Gods," which we later discover to be (view spoiler)[a post-apocalyptic New York City (hide spoiler)].As he ventures into the unknown, we get the real point of the book, which is that humans in this story "ate knowledge up too fast." They took advantage of everything that was available to them, and used it for selfish reasons.
He is set on reconstructing the society humans had years ago, and this time, making things right.
This story focuses on the main character, and narrator, John, who goes on an journey to finally fulfill what he has wanted all of his life (view spoiler)[ to become a priest  (hide spoiler)].
However, John wants more than that, he wants to accomplish what his spirit want, and it is something very risky that no one in the post-apocalyptic world that he lives in has done before (view spoiler)[ go into the Place of the Gods  (hide spoiler)].
'Mainstream' author Benet visits a theme — a post-apocalyptic world — already commonplace in the speculative fiction genres. Of course, the critics raved and it was put into high school English anthologies. But it was no better written and no more imaginative than many stories that had already been published.The author was, admittedly, a more accomplished stylist than most of his contemporary science fiction writers and, not having to write for mass-market publication, could allow himself more freedom. But the story is not logical nor particularly believable. There is some rather silly and heavy-handed moralizing. All in all, nothing special.
By the Water of Babylon was a great book to read. I liked how the author made the story seem ominous and suspenseful. One writing technique or literary element that the author used well is description of setting. Stephen Vincent Benét makes the setting seem clear so the reader can easily imagine where the narrator is and what the narrator sees.
I read this book in high school, 57 years+ ago, & it STILL RESONATES, especially with Today's Situation! Can't recommend it highly enough especially for young folks who are unfamiliar with just how close the world can get to this state of affairs in the Past & could even more easily arrive at in the Near Future!
A beautiful story, far ahead of its time.
Most irrelevant title there has ever been.
Post apocalyptic. Not my thing.
Benét writes about this dystopian world as if it takes place in the past - the choice of weapon is a bow and arrow, and they warship multiple gods (like in ancient times).
It is later revealed that the "Place of the Gods" is just a heavily bombed area, and those living in the areas around the ruins are unaware that these are not just ruins of a superior race, but are just leftovers from a war.
Therefore, the dystopian world is not a dystopian past, but rather a dystopian future.
I bought this book without realising that it is VERY short.
In fact, I read the whole book in less than 45 minutes.
It's clear from the way that it's written that it's aimed at children, but my copy even has a selection of exercises at the end, so it was obviously produced with the classroom in mind.Aside from the shortness of the story, it's passable.
The story that follows is essentially a description of the journey from the man's point of view as he encounters things that are familiar to us, but about which he has no knowledge.If you don't mind the simplicity of the story then it's fine.
Okay, to be honest, I didn't even understand the whole thing until the end, and even then I was still confused.
Okay, so the gods were men, and the men were us...
the atomic bombs?
But if the a-bombs were dormant, then why would they explode for some people and not explode for others?
Putting that aside, the book wasn't really that interesting.
I mean it was interesting to see how it all played out in the post-apocalyptic world, but the first few pages were like watching grass grow.
The last page was interesting, and that page alone gave me shivers.
I really liked this short story. I love how the story starts off with just background information, but then the point of the story really hits you. It makes you think about things like "What will mass-destruction in our world look like?" "What major living thing will come after humans?" "Why did the author choose to write a post-apocalyptic story?" This book is truly great and one of my favorite quotes in this story is "It's more important to lose one's life than one's soul".
Thought-provoking, terrific little read. Hard to believe it's such an old story. At first I wasn't wild about the overly simple narration, but after a few minutes I realized that it's actually quite effective. The concept is probably not as shocking as it may have been at one point, given the recent surge in dystopian novels, but should still be appreciated.
Na primeira metade do século XX houve um imenso ímpeto criativo que moldou a nossa cultura de hoje. Não tem nada novo atualmente: tudo é chupado daquelas ideias.Uma história pós-apocalíptica escrita ANTES da bomba atômica! Nem sei dizer quanto tudo de hoje foi chupado dessa história: Mad Max, Planet of the Apes, Resident Evil, Walking Dead, Star Trek...
I read this as an interesting example of early post-apocalyptic literature. It's a curiosity for that reason, I suppose, but there's not much of a reason to really read it. I won't be checking out Mr. Benet's work in any more detail unless somebody tells me otherwise.
Yay. More required reading. It was just kinda blah. I mean, the character John was okay. He wasn't anything to write home about. I like the NYC references but not the rest of the story. It was very dystopian but with no real suspense. Eyah!
I use this short story in my English 10 class. It is so much fun to watch the students attempt to figure out exactly what is going on, where it is going on, and what might have happened in the past. It's awesome.
I like when authors write about our society from an outsider's point of view because it's always interesting to see what they find as strengths and weaknesses. This short story will give my 10th graders plenty to talk about on topics about knowledge, point of view, and beliefs.
A great story that provides so many great ideas that contrast with our real world these days, regarding the beliefs of the people of the hill, and the external and internal conflicts that john was having throughout the story.
Very interesting! A cautionary tale about nuclear war from the early 20th century. Not the first book I would have picked up on my own, but definitely an interesting read. I'm always a sucker for cautionary tale about society.
A great dystopian reading that deals with the power of knowledge. The same knowledge that builds can also destroy, an idea that our main character discovers while exploring the East.
This was a good one. Also, I don't know why it gives me Game of Thrones Old Valyria vibes, but it does.
short and amazign fuk
Great short story. If you've never read it, the full story is available online.
