https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/699121.The_God_of_the_Witches
Well, er... This is entertaining enough as the potential basis for a fantasy novel, but as far as actual scholarship goes, it's pretty lacking. Murray's theory that there was some kind of unified pagan religion in Europe prior to the advent of Christianity is iffy enough (I don't doubt there were pagans, but I don't think it was anything as widespread and organized as she seems to believe), but when she posits that Joan of Arc and Thomas a Beckett were pagan sacrifices, things get pretty wacky.
Let's be perfectly honest. Margaret Murray is batshit insane. In the days before wikipedia, Ms. Murray would be the reason why we'd argue that everyone was indeed  not  an authority on everything. Lightly trained as an "Egyptologist" (Edward Said would have a field day with that), Murray launches into a rambling, crazy treatise on a magical Horned God and pre-Christian pagan European universal maternalist religion that was marginalized as witchcraft in the darkest parts of the medieval period. I
Let's be perfectly honest.
Margaret Murray is batshit insane.
In the days before wikipedia, Ms. Murray would be the reason why we'd argue that everyone was indeed 
Lightly trained as an "Egyptologist" (Edward Said would have a field day with that), Murray launches into a rambling, crazy treatise on a magical Horned God and pre-Christian pagan European universal maternalist religion that was marginalized as witchcraft in the darkest parts of the medieval period.
It's hilarious in a "oh my God i hope no one believes this sort of way" (a la Da Vinci Code), but really, home girl is cray-cray.
Controversial? Yes.Inaccurate? Probably.A Good Read? Definitely!If you can find your balance between those three points, you'll have a blast reading it.
Aunque historiadores y antropólogos anglosajones han desacreditado la obra de Murray, haciendo énfasis en sus inconsistencias y falta de rigor académico (y uno se pregunta si eso lo saben los editores del FCE que deciden seguir publicando la traducción y decidieron incluirla en la colección de 70 aniversario de la editorial), "El dios de los brujos" no deja de ser un libro sumamente legible y una piedra fundacional en el retorno a la luz pública de las religiones precristianas europeas.
Con base en esta lectura "al revés" de los juicios en contra de los brujos y brujas europeas, Murray planteó las posibles formas que tomaba el culto al dios con cuernos, sus ceremonias, sacerdotes y ritos.
In this book, she therorized that the trials against a witch-cult in the early modern period of Christianized Europe and North America were "an attempt to extinguish a surviving pre-Christian, pagan religion devoted to a horned God." She traces the worship of this Horned God from paleolithic times to the medieval period.
And makes a case in the last section of the book that the deaths of spiritual leaders such as Thomas a Becket, Joan of Arc, and Gilles de Rais were ritual in nature.What I enjoyed is that is got me thinking about about an ancient and vital religion renamed "witchcraft." And how a newer religon might try to supplant an older one.
No doubt it's all nonsense. But fascinating nonsense!
It's worth four stars for the simple reason that Margaret Murray was the first British author to debunk the popular caricature of the witch as a deranged, steeple-hat wearing, broomstick-riding crone; instead, she offered the first gynocentric view of the craft, relating it to a profoundly traditional (and harmless) fertility cult descended from the pagan rituals of ancient Europe.My advice would be to read this with benign and constructive scepticism, to think of it not only in terms of history but also in terms of spirituality, and to keep in mind the context of anthropological theory at the time of its publication (1933).
Uno de los libros básicos de Murray en los que Gerald Gardner se basó para la construcción de la Wicca.Basado en la hipótesis de un culto monoteista a un dios con cuernos en todo el mundo en tiempos primitivos en europa y oriente próximo que se ha mantenido vivo y sin cambios durante toda la edad media hasta la actualidad.Como mínimo se trata de un trabajo arriesgado.
No obstante no ha perdido un ápice de su valor histórico para con su relación con la brujería moderna.Altamente interesante de leer desde un punto de vista crítico y actualizado a las teorías antropológicas modernas.
The only relief was staying inside her small home, going to a nearby pool or walking to the mall.
It was at that blessedly airconditioned mall that I purchased and read this book.Margaret Murray was first and foremost an Egyptologist.
Her interest in the history of witchcraft--or, as she might say, of traditional European religions--was a hobby, a hobby towards which she applied her professional skills and ample imagination.I have since read other scholarly work about ancient European religions in general and about witchcraft in particular.
She is, however, a grand organizer of disparate data in the tradition of Frazer and Mead and quite a lot of fun to read.
Pese a haber sido cuestionada en el ámbito académico, no deja de ser admirable una obra semejante en una época en la que la mujer estaba relegada completamente (o casi) de cualquier espacio de investigación. No es un trabajo que atienda a los documentos sin editar en su época, ni cumple los parámetros historiográficos actuales, sin embargo, sí que merece ser reseñado como un ensayo que refleja una teoría antropológica del momento.
Carlo Ginzburg acknowledged the essential correctness of Murray's ideas in Ecstasies, and now her ideas her respectable!
Very hard to follow and stay with. No, I didn't finish it and I'm not going to waste my time saying anything more about it.
Bad history.
say what you want about margaret a. murray but she single-handedly invented the genre of "youtube conspiracy theory" and where would we, as a species, be without that?
"Nonostante potrebbe essere falso, potrebbe anche contenere un substrato di verità."Qui la Murray ragiona secondo il paradigma: se A è uguale a B e B è uguale a C, allora A è uguale a C. Quindi: io dipingo, Picasso dipingeva, allora io sono Picasso. Da leggere più che altro per farsi una risata, non avrei mai pensato di trovare il Minotauro e Gilles de Rais nello stesso discorso.
Merita d'esser letto, decisamente. Un testo notevole e interessante, se vi interessa anche minimamente l'argomento consiglio di leggerlo. Non sapevo la metà delle informazioni riportatevi.Si legge facilmente, non è particolarmente pesante, ma dipende dall'interesse del lettore. Tuttavia si legge spesso su siti web di persone più esperte in antropologia che la Murray allarga spesso la coperta cercando di coprire il più possibile e in alcuni punti la coperta si strappa. Dove precisamente non lo so, consiglio di fare una ricerca sull'argomento prima o dopo aver letto il testo.
Murray's thesis set forth in this book, first published in 1931, is that the witchcraft of the early modern period in Europe was a continuation of the ancient paganism of pre-Christian times. For the most part, subsequent scholars have rejected this view. There is a discussion of this in the Wikipedia entry for Margaret Alice Murray: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Margare.... Nevertheless, I found this book to be a quite interesting read.
Murray was a nut. fun read if you like fiction and don't mind getting angry/offended, though.
Very insightful and interesting!!
