https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395464.The_Luckiest_Girl
This is because the sweet outweighed the bitter by a large margin.
I first read and loved this story as a child, which is why I'm shelving the book additionally under childrens as well as YA (the protag is a teen).
The California described in this book was partially reminiscent of the California that I knew and loved growing up, but when seen through the eyes of the past, it was also a landscape that I never got to see.
She made it seem like she was having so much fun!I would love to encourage people to go back and revisit books that were their personal childhood favorites.
Our March discussion book is The Luckiest Girl!
Tweet along as you read on Twitter!These retro reads are so wonderfully full of quiet drama–each story is about a girl in high school who is learning to be comfortable with herself, and in a way I feel as though these “contemporary” romances were the Sarah Dessen books of their day, in that nothing happens in them and yet everything happens at the same time.I wrote a review of Fifteen if you're curious as to what you can expect, but I think The Luckiest Girl is the more emotional and mature book–and probably the one that contemporary readers will relate to most.
If you like the sample, you'll love the book.)Hope you'll join us if you can!
My mother was similar to Shelley's in many ways, and I absolutely identified with her, especially with things like the yellow slicker.
I remember I desperately wanted to get a coat from a secondhand store like several of the girls in my class, and my mother was horrified.
I was probably younger than the original age target when I read this book, and I think its quaintness means it successfully skews younger like that now, but it absolutely holds up as an enjoyable read.
That kind of thing goes for big bucks at secondhand stores these days.
I don't even remember how many times I read it; at least once a year and every year it meant something different to me as I went through boy friends and heart breaks.
I probably first read The Luckiest Girl when I was twelve or thirteen.
It took several more decades but now I do!Reading the book again now, I was amazed by how truly Beverly Cleary captured what it was like to be a teenager at that time.
Of course, by then it was the mid-sixties, everything changed and we all just went wild.Would teens today like The Luckiest Girl?
This was a very touching, innocent look at first loves.
I adored the quote "This was love, she knew not the love-for-keeps that would come later, but love that was real and true just the same." I loved how Beverly Cleary captures all those innocent, uneasy feelings of looking at a group of boys standing in the hall talking and knowing there is that "one boy" you want to walk over and start a conversation with, but at the same time all those nervous butterfly emotions are clouding your ability to.
This is another of those classics that I never had heard of before and that I missed originally on the Classics challenge at The Midnight Garden when I was the readalong book in March.But wanting to complete the challenge and not fail it, I decided I needed to read a book that wasn't too long, and went for this one!Shelley was a very sweet teenager but her mental processes being so taken up with boys did manage to annoy me on occasion.
;)A very sweet read that I ended up liking more than I expected at first.
The Luckiest Girl holds up astonishing well given it's about 60 years old. It's a fun story about a girl with a helicopter mom who spends the school year in California with her mom's college roommate's family. It's well written and while dated, not as dated as other work by this author. I'll hang onto my copy and re-read it when I need a flashback to my teen years.Full review: http://jenn.booklikes.com/post/105050...
The other day I remembered a random detail from this book and decided to track it down. I remember which school library I checked it out of, so I must have read it when I was in fifth grade. Reading it again as an adult was an interesting and delightful experience. I remembered more of the details than I would have thought, but of course now I identify with the mothers in the story much more than with the teenage protagonist.
Beverly Cleary is clearly (ho ho) a big name in America, but I have never even heard of her, so I was coming from a different perspective to most of the readers.I think that the appealing thing about this sort of very dated book is the nostalgia element and, since the situation and the high school culture are not familar to me, I couldn't really take part in this.
The writing isn't noteworthy, very little of substance happens, and I couldn't relate to her experiences.It will be interesting to read (and join in if I'm brave enough!) the discussion of this book, and see what others make of it.
This is an awful book! I find it to be quite a wast of time. That is because nothing happens throughout the entire book. I was lead to believe that this book was written so as to relate to teenage girls and I as a teenage girl formed no bond with this book. Shelly the main character went out with three boys throughout the book, and kissed not even one of them! Don't read this book!
One word summarizes this book: Derp. That's about it. Absolutely horrible, I despised all the characters especially the main one (I can't even remember her name!). I wanted them all to die painful agonizing deaths. The storyline was dull and predictable. Take a word of advise and stay away from this crap!!
"Mother," I cried, "They just crowned me Queen of the May!"
When I was 8, barely 3 years into living in America and just polishing up my reading skills in English, a librarian recommended a Ramona book to me.
Shelley then gets an opportunity to spend the school year with her mother’s best friend out in CA, and she sets off on her first adventure away from the home she has always known.
I loved seeing Shelley growing up and learning about friendships, relationships and family.
I loved seeing Beverly Cleary’s style and creativity in teen version.
This is actually a really thoughtful book about mothers and daughters and growing up and living away from ones parents for the first time. Oh, and boys and what a relationship is based on but that's really only part of it. Well worth the trip back to the 1950's. I especially love the section where the modern teen wants to hear about her mom in the "olden days" which...really, really were at around 100 years ago. Still it all reads so honest that it has a timeless quality amid all the period details.
perfect little vacation novel <3
I had to read a Beverly Cleary book!
I remember reading all of them in junior high (we had no middle schools).
In this book, the child says "Mother"; mother stays home and provides for her family's needs' the parents wonder how they are going to handle the teen years of their children; there are rarely single children.
old girl goes out with two different boys.
The boys know and enjoy the whole family.
old boy, one year younger than the protagonist, who apparently NEVER sees her at school, does not truly interact with her in any significant manner.
Shelley is counting down the days untill she finally can go to San Sebastian.
When she arrives, she feels like the luckies girl on earth.
I can connect Shelley to alot of girls in middle school.
They feel like they are the center od attention and they have everything in the world...
I rate this book 3 stars because it was a bit easy for me but it was stillk a great book.
Shelley not only has a great story but she tought me alot about being a teenager and how things can just suddenly twist around.
My sis-in-law recommended 4 books to me by Beverly Cleary written in the late 1950's as fun, good and clean.
The ones she wants her daughter to read when she is a preteen/teen.
This one is my favorite, it even made me cry, although I enjoyed all of them.
Part of what I enjoyed was seeing how things have changed since the late 1950's (such as every girl knowing how to sew...most of the books contain at least some sewing) and how many things have stayed the same (the emotions and experiences of being a teen).
Recommend for a quick, good read.
Every summer I would check this book out from the library and re-read it. The crinkle of the library binding, the picture of Shelley in her pink raincoat on the cover, all told me that it was summer and that someday my girlish dreams of falling in love might come true. Well, flash-forward a few years, kids, and wrinkles later, and I still love this book. Beverly Cleary can do almost no wrong, in my opinion.
The Luckiest Girl, is so different from all of the books I have read. The scenery of the book is simply awesome. I love how he explains a very important and usual problem that most girls have, boys and parents.The book explains the main problems that girls have during their teenage years. I also like the way they spoke in the book because it was so different and unique. So you should really read it.
Another Beverly Cleary book that I hadn't read in years. Like the others, it is definitely dated, but there is a lot that is universal about it. I think what I liked the most about it is the end, where Shelley realizes that although although her feeling for Hartley isn't "love-for-keeps," it is still a kind of love. Maybe a 16-year-old wouldn't really realize this, but it is refreshing to read that in a YA novel, since they usually treat high school love like it does last forever.
Oh Shelley, and her year of reinvention... With misadventures and predictable quirks, with colorfully realistic characters, and a sunny California setting, this is a fun (re)read that's both a step back in time and a reminder that life is life is life. I'm pretty sure Beverly Cleary is one of those timeless authors - her stories are not bound by time or society or etc. They're universal. The fashion may be different, but the normal, everyday struggles? They're the same today.
It is fun to retread this book all over again after so many years. I love Beverly Cleary. Even though it was written 50 years ago the message is just as important today. Growing up is hard. Don't waste your time on the wrong boy.
This book broke my rotten heart. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
Review at the blog: https://whatireadbackthen.wordpress.c...
It is arranged that Shelley will spend one school year living with her mother's college roommate and family, in the warm, fertile land of California.California is so different from Oregon, and Shelley is delighted by it all.
Since the new school is just different enough from her old school, everything is a delight for her to experience.This one does not seem so dated as the Sister Of The Bride title, which I also snagged between the time it was donated and when I dropped it off at the book sale.U live Beverly Cleaey's style, but the story is a but dated.
Och frigörelsen är sig väldigt lik i sak.
Det gäller inte gula regnjackor kontra rosa regnkappor, och ett stort uppror är inte att köra rosor i en avfallskvarn, men att bli en egen individ och få en ny relation till sina föräldrar/sin mamma.Gillar i slutet där det visas att mammor också är döttrar -och att deras mammor aldrig kommer att lita på att de tillagar söndagssteken på rätt sätt....Gillar också att slutet inte är för tillrättalagt.
Shelley åker hem efter sitt år, och det är det.Lite sugen på mer av författaren, det är lite mys i stil med Anne på Grönkulla (och det är ett högt betyg) men även om jag gillar Shelley är hon inte lika mycket av en kindred spirit.
I accidentally left the bookstore at closing with a book whose cover I had been horrified at. It was probably entertaining enough in its day, but now the only interesting thing in this 1950's tale of boys and dates and pink sweaters is the slice of life aspect. Rebellion in this decade involves wanting the hip slouchy used clothes that your Depression era parents worked hard so that you would never have to have. The cultural differences from area to area involve who has heard of donut holes. The 50's were an odd time.
What a fun, innocent teenage book from the 1950's! About a high school student from Oregon who goes to California to spend the year with another family. I had read this a long time ago but liked it even better this time. I love the descriptions of California and the quaint descriptions of the heroines clothes-a bit Nancy Drew-ish.
I read it on the way home from a trip, such an easy read and soooo good!! It sounds so modern but made so long ago!!! Highlyyyyy recommend
