https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57536.Second_Nature
So, when I learned that Michael Pollan published a book about gardening in the early 1990's, I seized the opportunity to get a glimpse of my fave author's early years.
And, as the book jacket promises, Second Nature is likely to be the most intensive - and perhaps the only - modern foray into the mind of a gardner that has been successfully reduced to print.
I just closed the book and decided to call it good.So, in the end, I would say this is not one of Pollan's finer works.
This one's about gardens and gardening, and is probably the book in which he most explicitly addresses man's relationship to nature.The oft-repeated thesis of this book is that all American concepts of the physical world and our place in it stress a division between nature and culture, and that while this notion has been useful in its various forms (Puritan establishment to the Wilderness Act), the present demands a more holistic metaphor to guide us.
Honestly, he didn't really have to twist my arm to persuade me that romantic and/or radically preservationist environmentalism isn't a particularly useful philosophy if we want to survive the next 1000 years with both our world and our culture relatively intact, but I hadn't thought very much about gardening as a way toward a better mindset.
I've been a gardener my whole life and so was delighted with Michael Pollan's story of his experiences with gardening and the endless struggles we go through as nature does its best to undo our every effort.
A great read and a true gem of a meditation on gardens and the human spirit.After 2012:This is my third read of Second Nature.
Once again I'm impressed by Pollan's ability to weave personal history with past and present theories/ideas/politics of gardens and our changing attitudes towards the land we live on and with.
Certainly not a practical gardening guide, but worth reading for all who wish to look beyond planting a few tomatoes or a casual daisy or two.
This book was, erm, okay.
But, and this is a big but, each chapter felt like it's own book, with a wrap up that left me feeling like SURELY this should be the end of the book, only to realize there were a gazzillion cds left in the case to go through.
Only pieces were enjoyable.
And as a disclaimer- as always- reading and listening to a book often leave a reader with different impressions of the book.
Perhaps a reader would not feel as if the book moved painfully slow.
If you are a big Pollan fan then I'd suggest reading it.
He also chronicles the first seven years of developing his own garden in Cornwall, Connecticut: deciding on the right ratio between lawn, vegetables and flowers; figuring out how compost works; fighting groundhogs; planting a maple tree; and so on.If you’ve read his more recent books, you know Pollan is always readable on the subjects of plants and food production, but I found this somewhat dry and too focused on historical rabbit holes, especially in Chapters 10 and 11 (“The Idea of a Garden,” based on a panel discussion on environmental ethics that he moderated in Harper’s Magazine, and “‘Made Wild by Pompous Catalogues’”).
Drawing from history, ecology, religion, literature, and philosophy, Pollan discusses how gardening addresses our relationship with nature.Excellent writing style.
For example, he entertainingly describes "the loathsome slugs: naked bullets of flesh--evicted snails--that hide from the light of day, emerging at sunset to cruise the garden along their own avenues of slime."In addition to the lowly slug, Pollan addresses big topics here including land use, genetic engineering, and other environmental issues.
He proposes a new ethic for environmental stewardship that views man's relationship to nature as that of gardener who is interconnected with the land, rather than the prevailing wilderness ethic.
A must-read for environmentalists, gardeners, and anyone who contemplates the American landscape.
Written twenty-five years ago, much of what this book is about is as true today as it was then – because much of it is a history of the garden and gardening.
It’s also, though, a contemporary study and self-analysis of the author’s one-year experience of putting in a garden(s) on his newly purchased (in 1984) five-acre, old farm, in Cornwall, Connecticut, with bits of social and cultural commentary sown in.
242) and Pollan exhibits this on nearly every page of this hundred thousand word “trope” of gardening.
You’ll probably like this book, and Mr. Pollan, and his style of writing – it’s very popular.
Gardening gives most of us our most direct and intimate experience of nature - of its satisfaction, fragility, and power. One of Pollan's earlier works, and it shows. While there is a larger theme of gardening, there is also a lot of navel gazing. I liked the narrative historical sections on different concepts of wilderness and nature, actually preferring those to Pollan's check-in on how his zinnias are blooming... The strongest section of the book was "Planting Trees", discussing the history
While there is a larger theme of gardening, there is also a lot of navel gazing.
I liked the narrative historical sections on different concepts of wilderness and nature, actually preferring those to Pollan's check-in on how his zinnias are blooming...
The groundhog story was particularly maddening, and it lowered my respect for Pollan - I couldn't believe some of the stuff he actually admitted to doing to rid his yard of this rodent.
It was shameful - and this coming from a gardener who has been frustrated by groundhogs for years!So, some sections were great - 4/5 star territory, and others were awful.
I started reading Michael Pollan when my sister gave me Botany of Desire, and I had missed this early book about gardening.
The book is arranged by the seasons, a device which works well enough, as Pollan tells stories of his increasing engagement with gardening.
Much of the book is a meditation on gardeners’ complicated relationship to nature.
The theme of our attempts at control and the various ways that we fail is introduced early on in a story many gardeners will recognize about a destructive woodchuck’s incursion on Pollan’s garden.
I haven't even read Michael Pollan's really famous work, but I always think of the Botany of Desire as one of the cornerstones of my perspective.
I'm so fascinated by humanity's place in the landscape and I like his style.
In his typical style, Pollan brings a contemporary American ethnobotany to these classic garden icons.
Michael Pollan explores such items as:his father garden vs.
This is a revolutionary book from my perspective.
It begins with the author's reflections on his grandfather's garden and his father's attitudes to yard care and continues to his own arduous garden-making.
But along the way he considers the rich, fascinating history of gardens, yards, forests, and open spaces and how humans relate to them.
I particularly relished his chapters on the "meaning" of trees across a broad variety of cultures and "the idea of a garden." As he says, gardens are narratives, ultimately, about us.
The ending felt weak to me, but overall, an outstanding book to keep on one's shelf.
I am a real michael Pollan fan. Fun to see the seeds of his later books, planted in this one. As a beginning gardener, I found this book fascinating, informative and very easy to read. I most particularly like his discussion of what makes a "green thumb" and the concept of "wilderness."
The overall concept in this book--that the fantasy of untouched nature is as ecologically damaging as the ethos of development, and that the two might well be tempered by a gardener's approach, accepting a conscious custodianship of spaces that are always invested with both nature and culture--is a rich one and perhaps influenced my colleague James Barilla who wrote about preserving wildness in urban spaces in My Backyard Jungle: The Adventures of an Urban Wildlife Lover Who Turned His Yard Into Habitat and Learned to Live with It. I think both Pollan and Barilla are right to see that purity and authenticity fantasies do more to hinder our ability to see and sense the places around us than they do to preserve those spaces.
He touches on battling nature in the form of woodchucks, the social ladder of seed catalogs, puritans, his father, drops the names of Vita Sackville West and modern horticulturalists in the same paragraph - and yet it's all perfectly organized and utterly engrossing.I was just as interested in his own gardening adventures as in any of the rest of the book.
As I was driving, I found myself ordering rose catalogs in my mind, so I could fill them with the old, honored names of queens, ladies, and gardener's wives, and so they could fill my garden with the abandon of their scent and color and softly exploding petals, and remind me of the value of anticipation and of ephemeral things.Highly recommend, even if you're not a gardener.
Second Nature: A Gardener’s Education is equally well-written and is his first published book.This is essentially a collection of essays divided into four sections: Spring, Summer, Fall, and Winter, and though each essay approaches its topic--of which there is quite a variety--through the lens of a gardener, as usual Pollan consistently expands specific narratives and descriptions to reach broader implications, ranging from general philosophical reflection to reflections of spiritual, historical, political, and economic significance.
Foundational to this purpose is the idea that humans are a part of nature rather than separate from it.To qualify for free shipping on a recent Amazon purchase, I added Pollan’s second book, A Place of My Own, to my order, which is said to include reflections on building and architecture.
Before he became famous for his real-food polemics, Michael Pollan was puttering around in his New England garden.
This book, published in 1993, is a pure delight and total inspiration to a gardener of my ilk (invested in a garden that balances itself with nature, values native plants and eschews foolish hybrids, and strives to eradicate the lawn in all its iterations).
His presentation of a gardener’s ethics was also deeply motivating.
I hope to return to it again and again in my gardening life, and I recommend it heartily to anyone who enjoys nurturing plants and a small plot of land.
A delightful book exploring the relationship between American culture and nature--full of funny anecdotes, rich history, and engaging discussion. Pollan ensures that his view on the discussed issues is very clear to the reader, which occasionally can be a bit overbearing, but not annoyingly so. It is definitely an informative and enjoyable read for those who like plants and gardening, but these are not necessary prerequisites. I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in learning more about attitudes towards nature, the outdoors, and plants in American culture.
The first of Pollan's books, I put this one off because I figured it would be uneven and because it was not easily found. I ultimately tracked down a copy through inter-library loan and I'm glad I did. It's everything Pollan's fans could want on gardening. While a lot of his recent work has focused on food, this one and A Place of My Own stand apart and are good bets for fans of MP's writing but are tired of the overlap in the food books.
Such sweet garden musings. The section on his Dad vs the lawn mowing fanatics reminded me of a couple of former neighbors. And the worrisomeness of planting a tree reminded me of myself.
.
Michael Pollan's captivating meditation Second Nature has claimed a place in my heart right next to the works of Wendell Berry.
This book was so rad. It really made me think about the philosophy of gardening and consider man's relationship with nature and nature's relationship with man. I listened to it and will be buying a hard cover copy so I can highlight my favorite sections 😂.
It belongs up there with Izaak Walton, Aldo Leopold and yes, even Thoreau, with whom he argues throughout the book.It's not just about gardening; it's about Americans' relationship to the land-- including their suburban front and back yards.
I am new to gardening, but I am not new to thinking about American nature and landscape.
He is not just thinking this through but basing decisions about what he will do with his own property on his ideas.I learned two major things about my own property from this book: a) a prairie with paths running through it is the highest order of landscaping we could do on our own property; and b) I am a total Philistine when it comes to flower gardening!
One of my summer reading goals is to read through all of Michael Pollan’s work; so I started with Second Nature: A Gardener’s Education, his first book, which was published in 1991.Second Nature takes readers through the explorations, tribulations, and revelations of Pollan himself, as he works to leave his mark on his personal landscape.
Second Nature will most likely resonate with readers, like myself, who are interested in gardening as a social and environmental act; and who enjoy a good account of one man’s relationship with his land.
Second Nature is an insightful and meditative book that is about so much more than just gardening.
Not only did I discover several new garden supply stores, but I also was awakened to the oddity of the all encompassing front yards of grass throughout the US and how that came to be and how hard it is to break away from the tyranny to conform to it.Pollan discusses the conflict between having a garden and allowing the weeds and creatures to live their lives and how we actually act as weeds ourselves in changing the landscape around us."Native grasses proved poor forage for European livestock, which at first did not fare well in America.
This garden essay was like most of my gardens: teeming with promise at the start, becomes overrun with weeds and in the end, you're happy it's finished. Couple fun chapters, there's a sense of humor here, that seems ready to unfurl like a spring tulip, but in the end, the cool weather keeps its glory at bay.
I honestly love every book I have read by Michael Pollen, and I am late to the game on this one (published in the early 90s, when I was more interested in college parties than gardening).
I am glad that I took the time to read this one, because it is as inspirational a gardening book as I have come across.
It is a philosophical book without being overbearing.
There is one chapter in which he engages in what I would call a marxist rhetorical criticism in his review of different garden catalogs.
He talks about how Kenneth Burke's form can be applied to the garden.
So apparently Michael Pollan existed before he wrote "The Omnivore's Dilemma".
What's more, he actually wrote other books, including this gardening memoir.
I kept reminding myself that this book came out in the early 90's, which amazes me since I had never even heard the term "heirloom" until the next decade.
But Pollan, as a long-time fan, was surely ahead of the mainstream heirloom craze.As a writer, he is often astoundingly articulate, and his formidable grasp of language makes him alternately impressive and a bit of a slow read.
"Second Nature" is Michael Pollan's first book (and the last of all his offerings to date that I have read.) It is a book of the author's attempt to more deeply understand his connection to his gardens on his (now former) property in rural Connecticut.The story travels from his boyhood exposure and fascination to his grandfather's suburban garden.
Along that form he discusses the many stops we all take in our own gardens.In typical Pollan style, the simplest of topics is more deeply explored for its factual, historical, cultural and philosophical content.

