https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/372284.Pearl_in_the_Mist
I slid further down the wall with this one. Readable, but, oh so predictable, because well, if you read the ones before it, you read it already.
The first book in this series appeared to follow the normal V.C. Andrews format and intrigued me enough to continue with the series.This is the first V.C. Andrews book that made me feel like reading it was a chore.
This took me months to finish: not a good sign.I mean, the first book did enough to make Ruby a victim of circumstance: having her twin sold to her rich dad and stepmom, grandpa trying to sell her to an old pervert, finding that people aren't quite so welcoming of a sudden twin that came from a lower class.
My memory must be really muddled with the Andrews books as I remembered this being alot better.
Ruby had a bit more of a backbone in this one.
Gisselle is still a bitch.
You don't really see that much of Beau in this book, I don't think I really buy his and Ruby's love story.
I suppose it's better than him actually being in love with his sister like young Paul.
Can't have an Andrews book without incest though!
Don't get me wrong, these are still good stories and I love the whole family saga stretched over 5 books.
Just finished this today and would highly recommend it to anyone that read the first book in the series, "Ruby." This book mostly deals with the twin Dumas sisters once they're enrolled in private school.
THrough lots of twists and turns along the way, Ruby has to deal with her crippled twin, who is more mean in this book than in the first.
I feel for this character, always having to be the bigger person and the one who tries to do right, only to be punished for things she's accused of without just cause.Can't wait to read the next book in the series.
Recordo que adorei este livro e que mais uma vez fiquei ansiosa para que saísse o volume seguinte.Confesso que por vezes me questiono se eu lesse esta série atualmente, se teria o mesmo impacto em mim...
Ruby is back, this time she's whisked away from her new home in New Orleans and sent off to a rich boarding school in Baton Rouge with her conniving sister Giselle.
Greenwood is an all-girls school and is very strict with rules and expectations...which goes double for Ruby as the Headmistress makes it clear that she's in charge of Giselle's actions as well.
With all the adults throwing unreasonable expectations on Ruby's Giselle's evil actions went unpunished throughout.
So, a typical VC Andrews novel with evil stepmothers, Mary Sue lead character, pregnancy after one time of sex...however, I find myself loving this trash.
This book is really enjoyable and there are times that I can't stop reading.
Hated Gissele more now but I'm kinda looking forward on her character to improve I mean a back-story why she is always acting like that.
Anyway I dont like how they disregard the other stories here I mean they build the character of Louis, her friend Abby, her teacher Ms. Stevens, Mrs. Clairborne and specially the FULL STORY what really happen to Louis's parents does he and his mother had an incest relationship???
Like I said it is enjoyable but it is starting to be disappointing if you think of it more.
Segundo volume da saga Landry... a ida das gémeas para uma escola privada, o feitio cada vez mais destestável de Giselle e as artimanhas da madrasta Daphne conseguem transformar a vida de Ruby num inferno que se agrava a cada dia que passa.Uma vez mais o livro está escrito de forma interessante, um leque de novas personagens que entram e saem nos momentos certos e nos deixam ansiosos para o próximo volume.
This is the second book in the Landry series and focuses once again on Ruby. The setting moves to a boarding school for most of the book which changes things up a bit. Once again Ruby is very naive and gullible, it like she never learns! The book ends with her getting pregnant and returning to the swamp to have a baby. It nice to see Ruby back in the Bayou but I feel that her happiness will be short lived!
This novel was typical during the first few chapters. But it ended beautifully when all of a sudden, the story got rapidly enticing as a lot of twists and turns came about. Andrews write with mere passion that you can actually feel that the characters are real. Just like in a Hollywood movie. The story is very realistic and really tugs the heartstrings of every young lady who's life has been trampled on by the reckless society. A must-read. It's like a TV drama in prose.
türkiyedeki v.c andrews çıkartanların abv. o saçma sapan çeviri adları yüzünden seriye ikinci kitabından başladım. gerçi ilk kitabın eksikliğini hissetmedim. genel olarak bu kadına aşığım, entirikaları ensest ilişkileri ve kötü karakterleri ile kendisine çekiyor. ilk kitap ve 3 4 ü hemen almayı düşünüyorum.
Another good one by V.C Andrews. The book definitely gets more exciting closer to the end.
Even though Giselle is a spoiled brat and sadly like many parents, her antics and bad behaviour are ignored.
I feel like this house mom is going to get mean when the dad leaves.
Seems Ruby's relationship with the art teacher is inappropriate.
After the dance I so wanted Ruby to punch Giselle in the face.
To hell with Giselle and Daphne.
I'm shocked Daphne is nasty to Giselle now.
I'm glad Ruby threatened to push Giselle down the stairs.
I don't want him raping Ruby.
And now I'm worried again after his meeting with Ruby in her studio.
Another good book.
Gisselle and Ruby are shipped off the Greenwood school under the hawk-like gaze of the strict headteacher. But the upper class students of Greenwood don’t take too kindly to Ruby and her Bayou ways and, whilst she is away from her stepmother, her sister is still around to make her life misery. Not as gripping as Ruby, but still an entertaining read.
In "Pearl of the Mist," Ruby suffered more problems and trouble, especially with her step-mother Daphne, and her evil twin sister, Giselle.
Everyone had decided that Ruby would be responsible for every single bad things her sister did, especially at a private school, Greenwoods, where the girls were sent to.
Ruby seeked solace with her art teacher, and befriended a blind musician who was the grandson and cousin of the administrators at Greenwood.Near the end of the book, Ruby discovered a bigger problem, and she knew that by going back to Daphne, things would not look any better.
Bien entendu, les choses se gâtent et j'ai beaucoup apprécié le rebondissement vaudou et l'accident de Giselle tout comme l'exil des filles à Greenwood, j'ai apprécié l'amitié de Ruby et Abby même si Giselle s'est arrangée pour tout gâcher.
J'ai l'impression qu'il rode autour de Ruby comme un vautour Ce que j'aime : le passage à Greenwood, l'amitié d'Abby et de Louis tout comme l'évolution des relations entre Ruby et Daphné avant que Ruby tombe enceinte Ce que j'aime moins : le retour de Paul dans la vie de Ruby, Giselle qui est vraiment trop pesteEn bref : Un tome qui est un peu plus doux que d'ordinaire et qui poursuit son exploration des croyances vaudou à travers le personnage de RubyMa note 8/10
In this instalment Ruby and Giselle are sent away to boarding school.
Once away at school, Giselle becomes her bitchy, slutty self, terrorising the other students and initiating an affair with the school groundsman.
And the following happens:****SPOILER ALERT****Daphne remarries the man she was having an affair with all along, Ruby gets knocked up by Beau and kicked out of boarding school, refuses an abortion and runs away back to the swamp where she ends up accepting a marriage proposal from her rich, secret half-brother.
But the silliest instalment in the series is yet to come ...
This second book in the Landry series has Ruby getting into more trouble at her school, Greenwood.
Giselle is miserable at Greenwood and will try everything to get her and Ruby back to their school and home in New Orleans.
Ruby almost gets expelled, but it's Giselle's doing once again...Giselle was sneaking out of her room to meet a man who does work around the grounds.
But even with Ruby being the more sensible twin, and trying her best to stay out of trouble, she is sent home when she finds out she is pregnant with Beau's baby.
Why bother to build up his character only to have nothing happened between him and Ruby?
He went off to a music place and she got pregnant to Beau.I really dislike how the book was so well paced up until the last 50 pages or so.
She drags out unimportant things and all the cruel things other people do to hurt the main character, then pops in a random pregnancy, and everything dramatically shifts in a chapter.
No pregnancy seems to last more than 10 pages.
It was esentially the last two chapters that ruined the book for me.
In this book the authors purpose was to entertain the audience.
It was very entertaining and that is the purpose of the book.
She also never loses faith in the aspect that she never gets rid of her roots in the bayou.
This novel is a narrative because it is just a story told in chronological order.
So as you can see the book goes in chronological order.
I really liked this book and I enjoyed reading the whole series.
I wouldn't change a thing about this book, although it was similar to all the other books in the series.
1.5 really, because lmfao this book is such trash.
Just do yourself a favor and stay away unless you want to read actual trash.
Doing the thing!!There were some format issues that bothered me, and the fact that this book's writing is just so /aged/ and it didn't age /well/.
(Ex; Ruby's pregnancy and getting set up for an abortion within the same day, without anyone bothering to gIVE HER A PREGNANCY TEST TO CONFIRM THIS) It goes without saying that the writing itself is boring and repetitive.
The first book made me curious, but this one, the second of the Landry Series, really drew me in.
The subject matter of this book is definitely not for everyone, but to describe it would be to spoil it.
And I read it with a dialect like few books I've ever experienced.
I would LOVE for these stories to be turned into a film series.
The twists and turns that Ruby takes make you feel for her.
And you get that wanna-smack-a-witch-upside-the-head feeling from the antagonists (told you I was Southern lol).
Lol. I hope the whole series gets better as it goes along!
I fell sick while reading this book and had to take rests,I remember the book haunting my dreams.
I finished this book the morning before Christmas and I cried so hard, the sad mood never left me until the Christmas eve.
Days after I finished reading Pearl in the Mist, I remember myself just staring at nothingness and feeling sad again because of Ruby's tragic life.
That was 8 years ago and I can still remember the story.
Too bad I wasn't able to read the other books in the series.
V.C. Andrews is such a captivating author and has that way of making you keep turning the pages.
The story of Ruby Landry/Ruby Dumas and her twin sister Giselle continues.
I look forward to reading her further exploits in the next book and I hope that (although things tend to not become happy for Ruby)that her path to happiness continues.
But if my intuition serves me well, as it often does, I sadly forsee that path to being a hard (yet captivating read/road) for her to travel.
Either way I look forward to the next book!

There was a lot in this book that I didn't remember from reading this when I was a teen.
I was frustrated with Ruby for the majority of this book.
I'm wondering if it was just that slow because there are 3-4 more books in the series.There was one really disturbing point in the book when she nearly let herself get very significantly taken advantage of that made me really very uncomfortable.I think I will read the next one--as long as I can get it on kindle for a reasonable price.
When I read these novels back in the day I would have given them 3-3.5 STARS and now would say about one StarI started reading VC Andrews books in the 1991 and stopped about 2003. I have read:-Dollanganger Series-Casteel Series-Cutler Series-Landry Series-Logan Series-Orphans Series-Wildflowers Series-Hudson Series-Shooting Stars Series-DeBeers Series-Broken Wings SeriesAs a preteen reading these novels was a rebellion and the gothic theme also seemed cool. I stopped reading this author because the novelty wore off, the novels are too formulaic that I could not tell one book from another and gothic aspect was lost.
I didn't really get interested until they introduced Louis(who is clearly a clone of Troy from the Casteel series).
I was hoping Ruby's relationship with him would go in a "turbulent romantic" direction but that tapered off quickly.
Sometimes the book was a bit boring.
It gets old having Ruby be this Mary-Sue who everyone is soooo affected by.
Two meetings with Ruby will restore his sight!
It's also annoying having all these people put Ruby in a "do as I say or else" position constantly.
I really relished the moments where she threw peoples BS back in their faces.
Second book in V. C. Andrews' Dumas series. Just like the first, kinda slow and boring but not enough to make you put it down. It began picking up right at the very end and she's left with a hard decision to make. It actually makes you wonder enough to pick up the third. I had intended on starting a different book tonight but now, I may start the third one for this series instead. Maybe both. We'll see :)
