https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218073.Life_in_a_Medieval_Castle
Most fascinating was the section on training falcons, it I learned a little something from every chapter from foods (which actually sounded quite digestible in this day and age) to clothing to jousts and chivalry. Every aspect I could think of about living in a castle was touched upon. On to Life in a Medieval Village!
The Gies' compelling non-fiction work takes the reader back in time, depositing us firmly in the midst of the life and times of the castle - not the ones you see on television or in too many films, all scrupulously clean and with everyone tidy and far too accomplished with weapons, food preparation and all sorts of other duties; or the type filled to the brim with aristocrats and where servants are largely absent or so in the background you barely notice them.
A wonderful starting point for research on castle life in the Middle Ages. Read my blog, Medieval Research with Joyce, for personal research tips to accompany this book.http://medievalresearch.blogspot.com/...
Interesting book.
Good if somewhat uneven and occasionally not well structured introduction to the subject.
Neither romantic nor hardnosed, this book lays out a realistic picture of what day-to-day life was like in a medieval castle.
Life was hard work (when hasn't it been), but it wasn't deadly.
The 12 days of Christmas (from December 25 to Jan 6) were stretched into a 2-week period of playfulness, gift giving and receiving, and entertainment provided by the local lord, all nicely adjusted to the station of each person in the household.
Maskers, mummers and wandering entertainers appeared to provide diversion for all before moving on.I liked this book a lot and found it engrossing.
This book explains how the castle changed from motte and bailey to stone.
It also explains the roles of lord, lady, household, and villagers in relation to the castle.
The authors discuss what a 'day in the castle' was like.
The castle and the Knights were tied closely together.
Then the authors explain what is was like when the castle was at peace and at war.
Thus, it is difficult for the reader to see the castles to which the authors refer.
What a helpful book! I suppose it shows how little read I am in medieval history that during many of the facts I uncovered here, I would think to myself, "Just like how George Martin wrote it in Game of Thrones!" (which I guess shows how well-read GRRM is on the subject)The book focuses mainly on Chepstow Castle in England, but includes bits and pieces from castles and medieval history all over Europe. Fascinating stuff!
Good solid book about medieval times in terms of how people lived in and around castles. I will be referring to it while writing my novel. I docked one star because it would be nice to see a new edition with better pictures.
Like other books I have read by Joseph and Frances Gies, Life in a Medieval Castle is accessible and enjoyable. The Gies balance details of castle design and construction with stories of the people who inhabited them and fought over them.
Most of these were aimed at a juvenile audience.Both were fascinated by the Middle Ages, and in 1959 Frances Gies published a biography of Joan of Arc. Joseph followed with Life in a Medieval City in 1966.Their first joint collaboration was a children's book, Leonard of Pisa and the New Mathematics of the Middle Ages in 1969.
Life in a Medieval Castle was their first full collaboration aimed at adults.The book's prose style reflects Joseph's experience writing for newspapers, and the two authors' joint history of writing books aimed at schoolchildren.
Really Interesting history of castles, how they were used, why they were created, how they evolved, and what life was like inside. The castle was at the center of midievel life.
Un livre qui détoure à quoi devait rassembler la vie dans un château fort au cours du XII-XIV siècles: qui étaient le seigneur et la dame, leurs chevaliers et serviteurs, comment passait leur journée, comment affrontaient-ils les épreuves politiques ou guerrières.
Le livre se vend par ailleurs décoré d'un citation de GRRM himself déclarant que celui-ci s'en est beaucoup inspiré, ce qui augmente sans doute le volume des ventes, par les temps qui courent.A la différence de GRRM, "La vie dans un château médiéval" m'a laissée largement indifférente.
Pas question de rabaisser le maître bien sûr, simplement je l'ai lu beaucoup trop tard.
Gdy mowa o średniowieczu, najczęściej czytamy o ówczesnych wojnach i polityce, stosunkowo niewiele natomiast można znaleźć książek rzetelnie opisujących realia codziennego życia. Stąd też często błędne przekonanie albo o wyszukanych luksusach na książęcych i królewskich dworach, albo wręcz przeciwnie, o spartańskich warunkach i braku higieny niezależnie od statusu społecznego. Dlatego też z taką przyjemnością zagłębiłam się w Życie w średniowiecznym zamku autorstwa dwojga historyków, Frances i Josepha Gies, którzy pokazują życie na zamku od kuchni (dosłownie i w przenośni).Cała opinia:http://www.kacikzksiazka.pl/2017/08/z...
A fairly quick, easy-t0-understand book and a good introduction to what gave rise to castles, how they developed, their use, their effects, and their downfall. It doesn't have detailed explanations about layout or floor plans, though. The first part was a bit slow as it seemed to talk about historical individuals instead of castles, but it picked up after that. I actually found the parts about daily life and the villagers more interesting than the knights or war. It's a very informative book, but it is still just an introduction. A very good introduction.
Jak sam tytuł mówi, książka opowiada o życiu w średniowicznym zamku. Ale nie tylko. Pokazuje również ówczesne zwyczaje i kształtowanie się relacji społecznych. Nie ma naukowego zacięcia, chociaż przekazuje sporą dawkę wiedzy. Czyta się lekko i przyjemnie.
Very dense, but very VERY good. 100% recommended, but if you don't have the time or desire to read these very packed chapters, find an audiobook, because the amount of information in this book can be overwhelming.
A good book to read for an overview of what life was truly like in a Castle. It skims the top and hits some good points but I was left wanting more. I think if the book could be rewritten it should go into more details
A well written and informative look at all aspects of life in and around a castle in medieval times.
Some good information but was not written in an engaging manner.
Nice little book, fairly informative, easy and fast to read. Recommended for the general audience with an interest in medieval history. Not very academic I would say, but a good read nevertheless.
3.5☆
https://podkoldra-deana.blogspot.com/...
Slow going. More focus on the higher end (kings, knights) than lower.
Not that much "life" — I was hoping for more material about what it's like to live in a castle. Interesting and well-presented history, putting castles in *historical* context, but not that great at putting them in *social* context.
Through combining different sources however, it does try to give as full a picture as is possible, tackling issues that have become subject to misconceptions, for instance the role of the Lady of the Castle:- It seems to have been bigger than generally believed, and it is believed that the Lady played a big part in the castle's politics once she was married, leading the estate and even armies when the husband was indisposed;- Aka, some ladies also used to wear armour, yes!;- Women are credited with having a bigger sexual libido than men, one that the men couldn't satisfy fully (compare that to today's notion of "men always have sex on their minds);- Most marriages appear to have been happy;- On education:"The daughter of a great lord was typically brought up away from home, in the castle of another noble family, or in a convent, where she might spend her life if she did not marry.
This was the first and thus far the only book I have read by these authors (though I own several others I have yet to find the time to read) – it is a fascinating exploration of socio-political history the authors help to put flesh on the ‘bare bones’ of the crumbling stone ruins and empty shells which are all that sadly remains of castles today.
The sections on hunting, which reveal its roles as a social activity, ‘The Making of a Knight’ and ‘The Castle as a House’ are also fascinating.
Life in a Medieval Castle is an excellent reference book that is fun to read.
The chapters can be read out of order or as needed.
I recommend that the reader peruse the glossaries in the back first, as many technical terms are used right away in order to describe castles.
My only concern with the book was the chapter on The Lord of the Castle- the stories kept jumping around in time chronologically, making the timeline hard to figure out.
However, overall, this book provides such a wonderful peek into medieval life that I couldn't take away a single star.
I've been reading a lot of medieval nonfiction lately to capture the flavor of the era in my writing, and so this series, which is filled with interesting little details and stories about medieval people, has been really helpful.I keep trying to pick a favorite part of the book, but I can't decide between the descriptions of feasts and celebrations (including the necessity of storing and shipping lampreys for very distinguished feasters), the discussion of the practicalities and ceremonies regarding knighthood (seriously, knighthood sounds terrible and no fun), or the discussion of the medieval lady's pastimes (which includes the text of a song full of delightful filthy puns).
I felt a bit out of my depth with all the architectural terms, but the book was, like Life in a Medieval City, very readable and well-written.
It first looks at the how and why castles were developed, and then describes the life of the inhabitants therein by the their social station, from the lord and lady to the villeins/serfs.
This includes a look at a typical day as well as the castle year, which went by farming cycles - sowing, reaping, harvesting etc.
The importance also of the castle as a military asset as well as its decline as such and as a domestic center are also mentioned as well.
