https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23705512-you-re-never-weird-on-the-internet
A couple months ago, a little bird on the internet let me know that Felicia Day was writing a memoir.
I love books, and it makes me happy when one of my friends is writing one.
And when I'm revising my own work, trying to read a book for pleasure can be like feeding it into an angry woodchipper because my critical faculties are already engaged.
In fact, I plan on picking up some copies as gifts, and I'm going to give them away the same way I did Jenny Lawson's last book.
The most awesome thing about Felicia Day is how when you’re watching her video content or reading her book reviews or watching her hang out with her friends and talk about dirty books on her internet book club, or reading this very book, all that “I am BFF with Joss Whedon and I have awesome hair and I created The Guild with my brain” stuff just goes out the window, and she instantly just becomes a human person you can relate to.Bottom line: this isn’t a celebrity memoir all about how awesome it was to create The Guild and meet and befriend other famous people and how it is to be famous and me me me me.

i don't read "autobiography" a lot but this book was recommended to me and i don't regret reading it :D ! GOOD JOB queen of the geeks :) , i've known Felicia day for her role "Charlie" in the Supernatural TV show :D i loved her ever since , she is funny,Cute , Nerd she got the whole package
As my dad said when I picked this up, "well you do share the same surname and you're both on the internet." I feel like I know a lot of her from Tumblr and by reading her Goodreads reviews, but I couldn't necessarily consider myself a "fan".
I related to her anxiety a lot.Overall a fun and nerdy read that I'd recommend to fans of Felicia Day (obviously - I think you'll get even more out of it than I did) and readers who enjoy biographies/memoirs (bonus if you're a gamer/nerd and part of an online community.) Now I need to finally watch S7 of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and marathon The Guild.
Reading this book confirmed my suspicion that Felicia Day is a manic pixie dream girl.
But I mean that as a compliment.Felicia is funny and clever and a little weird.
So it makes sense that her memoir is also funny and clever and a little weird.Felicia writes about her unusual childhood, how she was homeschooled and was an early adopter of the Internet and role-playing games, that she was a violin prodigy and started going to college when she was only 16, and about her acting career.
LIST OF V. IMPORTANT DEMANDS FOR THE FELICIA DAY MEMOIR:1. More pre-teen Felicia Day game poetry.2. A section on that time Felicia Day took "sexy" photos to send to boys she met on the internet.3. Those photos included.PLS N THX.______________________UPDATE: Hey, everything I wanted was in the book! Glad I choose audio too, it was great hearing the stories from her own voice.
I'll stop listening) and most important of all, I could relate to a lot of what she was saying.
Which is also not true), I really felt like nodding my head in agreement the whole time saying 'yes.
So if like me, you didn't even know of Felcia Day before (ah yes, why read her memoir then?
Because I'm a weirdo.) you still should definetly read her book (or better: listen to it, her Narration is just fabulous!)
Vague things like, she was on Supernatural and did internet stuff.
I've seen her in gifs posted and she's so darn cute and seems sweet and funny, so I read this.It reads mostly like an average memoir.
She is very talented in many ways.One thing I would have liked to read more about is experiences with the people she's worked with.
I think everyone who reads a memoir wants to hear about that.
She mentions Supernatural only in passing and I was dying to hear about working with Jensen Ackles and Jared Padalecki.
Other people may know her from the tv shows Eureka and Supernatural, or for her own show The Guild.So as I have mentioned in other reviews, I made a New Year's Resolution to read more types of books and genres other than romance this year (as I used to read ALL genres at one point).
From her childhood being raised in homeschool, to her college experiences, and her efforts to make her show The Guild.
My favorite part of this book was the parts about her childhood and college experience.
Excruciatingly honest memoir from Felicia Day about her quirky childhood, gaming addiction, cultural attitudes online, and life long struggle with anxiety and other mental health issues.
Not only do your female friends not want to play video games with you, but your male friends never really accept you as a legitimate gamer.
I've known multiple people who dropped out of college or lost their jobs because they couldn't stop playing video games.
Also, if you enjoy online gaming or want to understand one of your loved ones who does, you may like this book.
[5 Stars} How can I put a rating on Felicia Day writing about her life? Answer: I can't. This was always going to be a five star book, and seriously it did not disappoint. It made me emotional and was simultaneously so freaking inspirational. I loved it, particularly Felicia Day's narration. Seriously, listen to this!
After getting the third side eye look from the person occupying the seat next to me I finally just had to say “Get the book and you’d understand.” Then it was awkward but my stop was next anyway.I expected this memoir to be funny and to feed my inner (and outer, let’s be honest) fangirl, and it did all of that, but I was surprised at how much I actually took out of it.
The point is that Felicia opening up about her anxieties, OCD tendencies and depression hit home really hard, but in a way that made me feel like I can get control of myself.As someone trying to break into the film industry, I was laughing (still on the streetcar) at the chapter on filming  The Guild .
Dear Felicia Day,I too am a Southern Lady with Mississippi roots who loves logic puzzles and wants to marry a man with glasses and a dreamy accent.
I've been a fan of Felicia Day since her Buffy and Dr. Horrible days, and I ADORE Charlie Bradbury on Supernatural (view spoiler)[(I refuse to use past tense when speaking of her.
Thanks for being the fabulous role model that you are, Ms. Day.
I'll be recommending this to all my fellow nerd friends and some non-nerds too.
Felicia Day is an internet personality who made her name a few years ago writing/producing/starring in a Youtube show called The Guild, a comedy about nerds obsessed with a World of Warcraft-type game.
She’s appeared in several mainstream shows like Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Eureka and Supernatural in supporting roles but it’s her online video channel, Geek and Sundry, for which she’s best known.
She talks about her Youtube channel, Geek and Sundry, which celebrates her love of gaming and other nerdy pastimes, as well as the pressures of producing content for it.
A review copy of this was provided to me by the publisher in exchange for an honest review.I needed a lighter read after a few heavy books so this popped out at me.Felicia Day and I were born one year and two days apart.
I remember the early days of the World Wide Web but Felicia remembers the early days of the entire internet.
But the honesty about her bad experiences and how she worked through depression and stress made it a much better read.
I read this book purely on the merit of its good reviews, not knowing who Felicia Day was or really what the book would be about.
What I did find interesting was to read about someone building their career on an online presence, and excitement for this new medium of spreading information/entertainment (new in the 90s, I mean, not now...though even now, to me largely inexplicable) As someone who is just getting the hang of certain social media, I was intrigued to hear about how she built her whole brand this way, and that, despite her success, her need for perfection drove her into a state of depression.
Still, it was short and easy, and might be an absolute thrill for rabid Felicia Day fans (it seems there are quite a few).Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
Felicia is always funny and charming in an awkward way - just like all of us geeks.
So I guess I'm not a hardcore fan at all.
I don't feel I have to say that I like her old stuff better than her new stuff at all.So these comedian/celebrity memoir autobiographies can go in a few different ways, but most end up being shallow yet slightly entertaining for a couple of hours of chuckles at how dysfunctional their family was etc.
I felt like I had met a friend for pancakes one afternoon and the friend was helping me get through some issues and cheering me up by telling me stories.
This book is very funny,the thing which makes it more enjoyable is the pictures Felicia has added in it.
I really admire her after reading this book,and I have to say that she is an awesome person,not in a funny way;she's that too,but also in a very inspiring way.
I'm not usually very fond of memoirs, but as a geek girl who loves Felicia Day, I had to check this one out, and it didn't disappoint. I related hard in places (weird homeschool kids unite!) and laughed or "aww"ed in others. I love her candid voice and her refusal to hold back, even when it came to touchier topics like GamerGate. If you like her work at all, I would absolutely recommend this.Now if you'll excuse me, I need to go rewatch The Guild.
Oh, look what I found on Edelweiss. Edit: And now it's on NetGalley also! :)
You'll like this if you're any of the following:-female-love WoW/gaming-an honor student-a band/orchestra geek-have anxiety or depression-like 90s throwbacks-frequent the Internet -tired of memoirs with crappy writing
I read this to see how the discussion of the Dragons was in the book.I was not really expecting the ableism, especially considering that Felicia Day worked with Teal Sherer on The Guild.
But in the first few pages was a joke about my exact disability, which Felicia calls "palsy." I went on to discover that the first 38% of the book (thank you, technology) included a total of 10 jokes based on disability.
"Write what you know," also means, "don't insult things you know nothing about." Felicia (Codex, Codex Dragon, whichever), this entire book could have been titled, "It Sounds Offensive, But It's Funny," which is pretty much a line you used in the book while you were making more disability references that weren't funny.
I really think it should be recommended reading in high school, too.- Felicia Day has a very relaxed, candid writing style that actually sounds like the way she talks.
While I don't actually know about those things, I can see that reading this would be helpful for people who do.- I think if more young kids could gain insight into people like Felicia Day, maybe they'd feel less alone and less pressured into being something other than what they are.
That's what I took away from this.- In a lot of ways, Ms Day is not at all relateable.
"Ms. Day" has opened up her life to your prying and probably jaundiced eyes.
She's had her ups and downs and brought smiles to many of her followers, readers, viewers etc.By the way...Hi Felicia, she's one of our members here and actually comments on books.
We've exchanged comments in the past about a few books.
Ms. Day has a wonderful and quirky sense of humor and tells her story with a flow that's easy to follow.
She's been maligned for some of her stands, unjustly as it happens.Now while I'd probably not agree with her on some "stuff" I think she comes across as the kind of person who'd be fun to spend some time with.So, try the book.
I am CONSTANTLY second guessing EVERY interaction and spend more time making sure I leave a positive impact on others, regardless if I ever get anything positive in return.Full Review:Reviewing memoirs is a tough thing because, who am I to critique a person's life?
If you are asking those questions - well, this memoir probably isn't for you.Felicia Day is a former homeschool, former double-major in math and violin, former commercial actress who one day got the crazy idea of doing a webseries about gamers in an online roleplaying game.
But the other part is I just wanted to give it a chance because I really like Felicia Day even though she reminds me too much of my irritating youngest sister.Weirdly, unexpectedly, I enjoyed this memoir a great deal.Now this is not the same kind of biographical tale-telling as the very-recently released Furiously Happy: A Funny Book About Horrible Things by Her Royal Highness The Bloggess, though, if you saw the book trailer for that book, you noticed Felicia Day displayed a Broken/Furiously Happy sign.
She chronicles her life from childhood to current time, focusing mainly on hobbies and the things she thinks makes her ‘different.’I enjoyed her acceptance of people of all hobbies and interests and the promotion of being yourself.
It’s not all false hope since she mentions the very real problems of anxiety, depression, discouragement, and not being accepted – but this in turn makes the impact of the message being more impactual.Written in a conversation style, there were italics and emphasis’s and inserted tweets/Instagram type photo feels.
This was absolutely fantastic. And Felicia read it to me! I loved her stint on Supernatural and am especially glad I read this because it told me a whole slew of things I didn't know before picking it up. Things like Felicia's obsession with WOW and gaming in general, which led to the Guild, and then trying to juggle real live vs conventions and dealing with anxiety attacks on top of it... This woman is my hero.
I do listen to audios and I do enjoy autobiographies, but usually they are about politicians, actors, writers or other people that I'm actually familiar with.
I have no idea who the hell Felicia Day is, even now, but I enjoyed this book just the same.She's an interesting and strong woman, with degrees in both violin and in math, so she's a smart woman as well.
I found the information helpful-particularly since her symptoms were not what you'd expect them to be.Felicia Day is funny, I now know that, and what she has to say is important.
