https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26114135-all-the-ugly-and-wonderful-things
Too many people are saying this book is okay because it's fiction, and that anyone who has a problem with it just can't make that distinction.
I really thought that was a basic principle everyone was familiar with but apparently not, not when I have to read with MY OWN TWO EYES the actual words "he is a pedophile and my favourite character of the year"Now, now let me make a distinction.
ANYWAYThe problem with these books is they normalise and allow pedophilic relationships to be viewed as "okay" and they're not.
Anyway, this is my view: this book is gross, and it's problematic, and it's pedophilia.
Right up until that moment it was sweet and funny. Odd couple that they were, they had a real connection. Then he tugged her boot off and kissed the bottom of her bare foot. I could see him doing that kind of thing to his own kid, but she wasn’t. She was somebody else’s little girl. This book destroyed me. I have never read anything like it. If you know the basic premise - that this is a so-called "love story" between an adult man and a female child - you might be thinking Lolita! But nah, All
If you know the basic premise - that this is a so-called "love story" between an adult man and a female child - you might be thinking Lolita!
The best thing about it is the completely unsentimental storytelling that, with its constant switching between perspectives, as well as alternating first and third person, beautifully presents a dark tale of childhood, family and abuse.
Whether you view Wavy and Kellen as two unfortunate victims of their personal circumstances, or as a child being abused by an adult who should know better, their story is a compelling one.Sad and disturbing.
There's this big older guy she's been hanging out with lately, and you know he's at least 26 years old.You walk into her room and there she is, on a table, completely naked, legs spread wide, he is sitting there, shirt off, pants open, touching her.What do you do?
I thought about Wavy a hundred times a day, but Wavy was Wavy, not some young girl."If Wavy showed up tomorrow, I'd do it all over again.
Did it make me less of a pervert that twenty and thirteen looked the same on her?I think these quotes stand for themselves.A minor sexually involved with an adult is wrong.
Before I say anything, let's address the large-trunked mammal who hath set his fat ass in the middle of this ugly and wonderful room.
They are NOT interested in adults sexually, usually only children - thus the "primary" in that definition.
I'm simply saying that Kellen was NOT a fucking sex predator and Wavy his unassuming fairy-child prey.
I thought Wavy was a really interesting character.
I thought she was a really original character who lived a very original story.
Two completely different backgrounds and methods...and yet, kind of abusive all the same, no?So, well done, Ms. Greenwood, authoring like this is truly refreshing.
AND NOW WE ARE BEST FRIENDS WITH SIMILAR TASTE IN B/W GRAPHIC PRINT FASHION! oh, good, i get to be the first reviewer of this book on here. that's not something i usually worry about, but when it's a potentially controvershul book, i get a little leery of being the only target for potential outrage. i had one of the first reviews of Tampa on here, too, and i know i'm gonna get a reputation for being totes pro-pedophilia if i keep being such an early cheerleader for these kinds of books, but i'll
i had one of the first reviews of Tampa on here, too, and i know i'm gonna get a reputation for being totes pro-pedophilia if i keep being such an early cheerleader for these kinds of books, but i'll risk it because this book right here is a stunner.greg told me i would love it, and here is a reenactment of me reading the back of his copy:"blah blah blah meth blah blah blah eight-year-old Wavy blah blah blah tattooed ex-con with a heart of gold blah blah blah powerful and shocking love story wait, WHAT?"and i reared back and gave him my closest approximation of the skeptical single raised eyebrow and i said, "love story?" and greg said, "yeah." and i said, "between an eight-year-old girl and a grown-ass man?" and greg said, "yeah, kinda." and part of me considered calling the authorities and getting him onto some kind of watchlist, but another part of me was naturally intrigued by an author with these kinda balls.
My mind was on Wavy, Kellen, and their story.
Kellen becomes the only friend Wavy has and the only person who truly cares for her.
Normally, I don’t love that in a story but it really worked for the way this was told.
I love reading romance books- it’s my preferred genre.
But it’s more of a love story than true romance if that makes any sense.
The love between these two was beautiful and pure for much of the story and if it started as romance it wouldn’t have worked.
I'm pretty open-minded, but even I had a hard time with the relationship turning physical between Wavy (13-14 years old) and Kellen (25 or so years old).
However, in no way would I ever condone that relationship in real life.That being said, the emotions that this book elicited are the reason that I loved it.
These were two lost souls that clung to each other with everything they had.The fact that Kellen was a father-figure, in many ways, to Wavy for so long made accepting their romantic relationship all that much harder for me.
I love a book that can make me feel the way this one did.
This book won’t be for everyone..and I get that: My thing is: I read a ton of books. After a while I’m begging for something, anything that is fresh and new. This book is that with big brass balls. Wavy’s story is not a pretty one. We first meet her when she ends up at her Aunt Brenda’s door. Her mom is in prison, no one can take her, she doesn’t really talk, and she hates to be touched. It’s enough to drive anyone crazy. Brenda can’t deal with Wavy. She sneaks out at night and wanders and Brend
It’s no wonder Wavy is so messed up.Then one day Kellan shows up on his motorcycle bringing them some groceries.
Kellan is one of the only people that Wavy can bring herself to say any words too.
The relationship between Wavy and Kellan changes over time.
See the thing is…My dad was a drug dealer during that time period.
(Relax-my dad served his time later and my family went even more nuts into religion-but that’s a whole nuther story) My family is a total Jerry Springer wet dream.Does that mean that I was in a thing with an older guy?
This is emotionally draining and disturbing. I'm sorry. DNF. I think the audio made it feel all that more real. The writing is good. I almost feel like this book is going to put me into a slump. It truly freaked me out. The relationship between Wavy and Kellen is wrong. I don't care how good of a guy he is. I don't care how screwed up her mother is. I'm sorry for initially saying that the novel is being marketed as YA. I think I'm wrong on that one.Don't troll me for hating it, please.
Amy is seven when her five year-old cousin Wavonna Quinn (nicknamed Vonnie then Wavy) first comes to live with them.Amy learns a lot about "The Tragic and Edifying Story of Wavonna Quinn" by eavesdropping on her mother when she talks to her book club friends.Wavy hasn't had an easy life so far and seen things that no five-year old should ever have to see.
With Good Mama, Scary Mama, Happy Mama, or Sad Mama we quickly learn why Wavy doesn't talk very often, why she doesn't eat and why she won't let people touch her.One day Wavy is out in the meadow when "A Giant" drives by on his motorcycle.
To see this review and a Q&A with the author, please visit www.readrantrockandroll.com.All the Ugly and Wonderful Things by Bryn Greenwood is a book that was very challenging for me to read due to the content.
I went into the book completely blind and didn't read much about it besides liking a few reviews.
I don't think by reading and finishing the book, you're necessarily celebrating the events that take place.**Spoiler**The controversy with people is the relationship.
Instead, she's having to live like an adult and she experiences adult situations at a very young age.
I'm delighted to have discovered this author and I'm looking forward to reading more.
Yes, their love story is unconventional, to say the least, but not one scene between them made me feel disgust.They are good together and there is no denying that Kellen is the best thing that happened to Wavy.We follow her (and plenty of other characters) from the age of five to twenty-one.
I thought the taboo subject would make me feel weird inside and give me a stomach ache… But, firstly, none of that happened and, secondly, I regret even thinking this book could have provoked those reactions inside of me.Read this if you want to witness one of the most intriguing and unconventional love stories unfold before your eyes.Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Google+ | Bloglovin’
“I love you all the way.”  Never in my life have I read a book that made me feel as uncomfortable as this one managed to. Gritty, raw and wrong on so many levels,  All the Ugly and Wonderful Things brought up feelings I wasn’t prepared for.There were so many times, I wanted to hate this book, to throw it across the room and somehow forget about everything I’d read. Riddled with emotion and a level of constant moral questioning, this story toes the line of pedophilia and begs for acceptance. It’
Gritty, raw and wrong on so many levels,  All the Ugly and Wonderful Things brought up feelings I wasn’t prepared for.There were so many times, I wanted to hate this book, to throw it across the room and somehow forget about everything I’d read.
It’s the story of a little girl and a grown man falling in love.
Am I such a sucker for a love story that I’m willing to overlook every repulsive moment between Wavy and Kellan and feel some sort of happiness for the way things turned out, instead?
Yes, it is a love story, but not in the beginning.Wavy is the daughter of a violent man, womanizer and drug dealer, and a drug addicted mother with deep emotional, existential and psychological problems, who transmits to her daughter her fears regarding food and germs.Kellan is big and overweight, biker and tattooed, ex-convict and son of an abusive parent.
Wavy es la hija de un hombre violento, mujeriego y traficante de drogas, y de una madre drogadicta y con profundos problemas emocionales, existenciales y psicológicos, que le transmite a su hija sus temores con relación a la comida y los gérmenes.
La vida de Wavy es difícil y Kellan es lo único bueno que hay en ella.
*4 Stars*This story takes a bold and honest look at forbidden love in its most controversial form: a grown man in his twenties falling for a child.
It asks us not to condone this love, but to take a long, unflinching look at it.
Is this love strong and pure enough to accept through the passage of time, when Wavy becomes “of age”?
It is complicated, but also feels so easy, and it’s not a story I’ll soon forget.
This story didn’t affect me quite as much as I’d anticipated, nor as deeply as it seemed to have affected other readers, and that’s not due to its controversy.
1 STAR?I don’t know.
I don’t know.God, this must be one of the hardest reviews I’ve ever written.This book is one of the most gripping, absorbing and addicting books I’ve read this year, maybe even ever.
The writing is phenomenal and so real that I forgot for a while that I was reading a book.
The story is different, unique and thought-provoking.Normally it would end up on my “ultimare favorite” shelf.HOWEVER...(view spoiler)[I’m sorry but I can’t ignore the fact that a grown-up man has sex with a child.Call me narrow-minded, conservative, judgmental or stupid if you want to.
I am so in love with Wavy, Donal and Kellen.
Living the kind of life Wavy and her brother Donal had to live, there is not anything normal and they only had one savior, Kellen.
In the beginning we read about Wavy staying with her aunt and her cousins.
Donal comes a little later and Wavy takes care of him.
I can't even begin to tell you how Wavy lives.
These are things you need to read for yourself.
The only person that cared for Wavy was Kellen.
But in this world that Wavy lives in, he's an angel.
BUMP FOR RELEASE DATE TODAAAAAAAAAAY (8/9). I'VE READ A HANDFUL OF 5 STAR BOOKS THIS YEAR, BUT THIS ONE WON'T LET ME FORGET ABOUT IT. IT DESERVES TO BE A BESTSELLER AND MS. GREENWOOD DESERVES MANY KUDOS FOR BEING BALLSY ENOUGH TO WRITE A STORY THAT DIDN'T JUST PUSH THE ENVELOPE, IT RIPPED THE DAMN THING TO SHREDS.Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “I loved her the first time I saw her and I still do.”“Love at first sight, huh? How old was she?”“Eight.”“That’s creepy.”
I'VE READ A HANDFUL OF 5 STAR BOOKS THIS YEAR, BUT THIS ONE WON'T LET ME FORGET ABOUT IT.
GREENWOOD DESERVES MANY KUDOS FOR BEING BALLSY ENOUGH TO WRITE A STORY THAT DIDN'T JUST PUSH THE ENVELOPE, IT RIPPED THE DAMN THING TO SHREDS.Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/
All the Ugly and Wonderful Things (perfect title is perfect) is the story of Wavy, the daughter of not a real Mother-of-the-Year nominee.
He’s spent time in the pokey and looks like a grizzly bear, but most importantly he recognizes when a kid has been dealt the shit end of the stick at life.
The main characters live a difficult life and everything is quite sketchy:Then some of the relationships get a little bit questionable:Then, the you know what hits the you know what:From there on out, I just wasn't sure what to think anymore:I enjoyed the writing and was enthralled with the story, but man oh man - the subject matter was tough!
I cannot say that I would recommend this to someone because I kind of worry what they would think I thought of them if THIS is the book I thought they would like.So, read it, but if it weirds you out, don't blame me!
There is a whole lot of ugly going on in this novel.
The wonderful is her quandary of a relationship with a man, Kellen, whom she met when she was 8 and has allowed into her heart.
He is her protection and safe haven in a life no child should have.Kellen, genuine and sincere, loves her - nothing intimate for several years until she turns 14.
Now, I'm not condoning a relationship with a child and an adult.
It was beautifully written and although quite ugly, I will not be forgetting this one, likely ever.
And for that, it is wonderful.5*****
I have read a lot of good books lately, but this one I just loved!!
I keep reading the things that some people mention about feeling uncomfortable at certain things in the book, I never did, I truly just saw the love and compassion right away.
Some people go through so much in their lives from early on that they become wise and more mature very early and that's what happened to Wavy..that's my opinion..I loved the short chapters with the voices of all the different cast of charactersI was very invested in this book, it was raw, it was beautiful..
I debated with myself whether to read this book or not but my curiosity won out. The trepidation, the sense of foreboding, the confusion I felt at times??!!! My heart is heavy with emotions. A book that will stay with me for years to come.
Memorable characters....(the good -the bad -and the ugly).....Brave - insightful - wise - controversial subject matter .....Wavy is a wonderful 'star' character...from her name...her idiosyncrasies...her purity & innocence ....her uniqueness....her aloofness.....
Things that are ugly: ....Meth-addicted birth mother.....A child frightened around her mother ( when on drugs)....Being raised in a household with verbal & physical abuse and adults flaunting their sexuality around children.
Inappropriate usage of drugs - such as cocaine - in front of children ( putting a spoon up their nose starts to look like it might be the next step to growing up)Things that are both WONDERFUL & UGLY:LOVE......( unfortunately/fortunately) Inappropriate situations.
My sister, Brenda and I decided to do another sister read and this time around we chose ALL THE UGLY AND WONDERFUL THINGS by BRYN GREENWOOD.
ALL THE UGLY AND WONDERFUL THINGS by BRYN GREENWOOD is a disturbing, powerful, and an unconventional love story that was beautifully written.
Allowing us to see that everyone has their own views and how it is perceived and how it ultimately effects them.At the end of the book we could not judge Wavy and Kellen, we just accepted it and all The Ugly and Wonderful Things.Powerful quote: "I AM AS REAL AS YOU ARE."To sum it all up it was well written, interesting, fast-paced, somewhat disturbing read, with a very satisfying ending.
Not all may be as it seems at first glance.If you finish and still have the same outlook, fine- but stopping this one a hundred pages in and thinking you have figured it all out...is not an acceptable starring-in my humble opinion.If you had a daughter...would you want them to have this?
Sometimes it is not all black and white....and when you realize that someone can have the best intentions without being the perfect match....you can read this book for what it is.
Read it...I think you may be surprised which side you are on at the end.Thanks NetGalley!
WOW, so I don't think I can write a review that would do this book an ounce of justice, but I'll give it my best shot...Originally I was going to give this one a pass.
The ages of the two main characters , and the subject matter just didn't sit right with me as a mother of a 14 and 11 year old.
And man am I glad it did.This was one of the most heart wrenching, uncomfortable, and amazingly written books I had read in a LONG time.
I'm don't think there will be too many people who are NOT disturbed by the friendship (love) between Wavy and Kellan.
she said if you find a love that is respectful, deep, genuine, caring AND it also happens to be with the one person who you want to tell all your secrets, have the most fun with, and who knows you better than you know yourself, well then, youre in for a world of happiness.
this is a story of two broken people who came to help each other heal, brought out the best in each other, and in the process fell into a love that was meaningful, supportive, tender, and undoubtedly reciprocated.
they were the kind of people who were better for loving each other, regardless of what some law says.
the writing is good, the characters are well formed but this story just doesn't work for me and no amount of good writing or well formed characters will encourage me to read any further.
Love is a beautiful thing, although some circumstances can make it look ugly or inappropriate, it is still love.
All the ugly and wonderful things people had done in the last two thousand years.
This story of a young girl who has been poisoned by her mother's words - afraid of touch, to eat.
A young girl who falls in love at 8 with a man in his twenties.
These two form a special bond over the years, Kellen becomes the person who looks out for Wavy, he takes care of her.
"..he loved that girl.
This book shocked the living hell out of me and evoked emotions and opinions I didn't even know I had!The novel is about a little girl named Wavy, her father is a drug dealer and her mother is a drug addicted, emotionally challenged nightmare.
Until she meets the love of her life, Kellen, she's just a feral kitten.
Each character in this book is so real, you can't make yourself remember you are reading fiction.
It is the impossible beautiful writing by Bryn Greenwood that makes these characters spring to life and then LIVE in your head for months!
I read a lot of books, but very few like this.
