https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/517518.Thinkertoys
These tools that Michael Michalko provides puts you in a position that the outcome will be the product of great creative thinking as long as you actually do the thinker work that goes along with the exercise.
This is the kind of result you can get from sitting down and working with Thinkertoys – I can personally attest!Also, Michael Michalko has a related product called Thinkpak: A Brainstorming Card Deck.
It is a great companion to Thinkertoys because each card is directly related to a principle or tool in Thinkertoys.
This book intrigued me, as I'm always interested in ways to amp up creativity.
I was happy to find that, in my own peculiar ways, I already practice many (though not all) of the methods mentioned in this book.
I'm amazed to learn that some of my creative methods, which I always thought of as rather quirky, are for real.
That people who are more self aware than I am have been able to document and develop these practices?
I just know what works for me.I was more interested in the methods than in the "intuitive" practices mentioned the book.
Great book.If you want to create ideas like a chicken creates eggs, read oneA lot of powerful and simple tools based on science help us generate ideas to solve any problem.Something new, something oldand one of the best ways I have learned is "fulcrum".easy to understand and apply it- Write down our challenges or problems- Choosing any "fulcrum" to leverage ideas- List things relevant to "fulcrum"- Connect or link the challenges or problems with things we listed one by oneDone!Thick book, take time, but it's worth to read.
Một trong những "TỪ ĐIỂN" dành riêng cho những người thích sáng tạo.
Theo khuynh hướng sáng tạo thì nó phê đến mức nào." Nhìn chung thì sáng tạo cũng dựa trên các concept như: + Chia để trị: chia nhỏ các thuộc tính và tập trung khai thác các thuộc tính đó.
Thần sầu ở chỗ là sẽ cho các biến số, tách + gợp các thuộc tính để tạo ra một thứ thần sầu quỷ khóc gì đó.
thua sao?.Nhìn chung rất là phê, chỉ là hơi lạc trôi khi phải tổ hợp tất cả các thứ đó lại để tạo bản sắc riêng cho cá nhân.
yazar tıkanmasına , fikir tıkanmasına hatta lavabo tıkanmasına bile vizyon katacak bir kitap.
Если такие монахи или священники берут на себя роль представителей религии и делают это со всей очевидностью для себя и других, вскоре их сознание следует за выбранной ролью.
Но для тибетского монаха или христианского священника недостаточно одного намерения быть религиозными.Монах должен обязательно вращать барабан, а священник – читать молитвы.
Из вас вряд ли выйдет новый Ван Гог, но вы наверняка будете мастером в большей степени, чем тот, у кого такого намерения не было, или тот, кто ничего для этого не сделал.
(c)Q:Квота идейКвота поможет активно генерировать идеи и альтернативы, не дожидаясь, когда они появятся сами собой.
This book gives more practical brainstorming ideas than you will know what to do with. Be prepared to do mental exercises to get the most out of this book.
4,5* to be fair. Tons of useful "toys" to play when you need ideas or problem-solving solutions.
It is incredibly comprehensive, and probably the best self-help book I've ever read.
Michalko doesn't only make you realise that you have creative potential through neat little optical illusions, but he also gives you a framework for harnessing that creativity.
The best part about this book is how it helps you brainstorm by yourself.
This book will only be appreciated if read slowly, while trying out a few techniques time and again (more to gain if you combine the techniques at times).
In fact I've now created an idea drawer, where I've put little folded notes with the names of his suggested techniques.
Really a very, very good book. Definitely a must-read for those who strive to continuously challenge and improve their thinking. There are some parts in the middle of the book which are not very relevant, but the beginning 150 pages and the last 100 pages are fantastic, especially the final chapter on experiences and interpretation.

However, it does a very a good job to make one understand the "why" in a very subtle way by using lots of analogies and stories.
So, I definitely suggest trying to apply what you've just read even though you have nothing specific to solve.
If that's the case choose any of the biggest problems the world has in common.
A very shallow summaryCreativity, as is everything, depends on your perception; of yourself, of things happening and of the world.
Mind still works to solve problems while you're asleep.
Analogies help a lot.
Книга Майкла Микалко "Игры для разума" о развитии творческого и креативного мышления весьма хороша и богатая не только объяснениями как оно работает, но и как развивать и совершенствовать их.
А ещё автор, можно сказать, до отказа наполнил её не множественными примерами, советами и инструментами.А самая важная мысль, которой Микалко убедительно доносит на страницах своей книги, что творческое мышление приобретается каждым, который тем или иным образом его развивал в себе или развивает.
И стоить добавить, что автор в книге приводит множество примеров, что творчество и креативность важны в любой области жизни в которых работает любой человек.
Что оно может принести огромные позитивные изменения в любой деятельности даже в таких, в которых на первый взгляд казалось бы они противопоказаны.
This book is a gem.
You would think that this guide would give typical, abstract advice about how to write down ideas in your journal and talk with others about your issues to gain insight.
However, this book does more than just that.
The authors provide you an enormous list of ideas, real-life examples, exercises, and explanations about their applications.
In the end, it's up to you which one you think is the most useful for your situation.
Even the creative thinking ideas in the book are themselves creative (e.g. cherry split, etc.).
It started out okay with what for me was a review of methods I had previously been exposed to and I hoped to get something new out of it.
But, he just kept rehashing the same things in more and more convoluted ways and the whole thing devolved into something so tedious and boring that I am surprised that I endured to the end.
And, when did Lao Tzu become the guru of business strategy?
It is going to take a while to get the bad taste out of my head.
Virtually worthless.
Tell your boss how wonderful it is and get her out of your hair for a few days.
This reads like a very entertaining textbook on creative thinking techniques.
Tt is comforting that creative thinking can indeed be "acquired" if one is not born with an aptitude for it, and the meat of the book lies in actually putting these to practice.
It is designed well that one does not need to read it front to back.
I had great fun skipping from one method of thinking to the next, and since I read it at a time when I had no avenues to practice it, I now know where to come back for tips when I need them :)
Whilst the techniques in this book aren't all original (the Lotus, the CIA's Phoenix etc), they've all been collated and presented in a very interesting and useful way. If you haven't learned creative and visual thinking before this book will absolutely blow you away and change your approach to work and life. You will never utter the word "impossible" again. I also recommend the companion Thinkpak deck of cards based on the SCAMPER technique.
Tips for stimulating new ideas. Comprehensive.
one cannot help but become unstuck , for bot left and right brainers
The unassuming nature of the book where quotes of wisdom are sprinkled through as ordinary sentences is spectacular.
A spectacular book - collectors edition.
The more ideas you come up with, the more likely you are to arrive at the best solution.""In creative genius, there is a tolerance for unpredictable and playful avenues of thought.""Your theory about the world is deduced from your interpretations and beliefs.
That theory then determines what you observe in the world.""It’s impossible to be creative if you are negative.
But it’s also true that our behavior determines our attitudes.
With the same resource, in order to replace that outdated working process, extract data from that database faster, calculate those number more accurately, or evade tax reduce cost of production, you must change the way you think.
Forget what you had been taught, think from different perspectives, change the question, find another way, come up with new idea.
Now you know about it, you can always come back for reference later, should the situation require.I give 4 stars because the examples on the book are heavily base on business idea, how to sell more, how to advertise better, how to come up with new product.
Mới đọc được hơn chục trang của cuốn sách này nhưng phải viết review luôn vì thấy quá hay.
Tác giả nắm bắt được khá tốt tâm lý của con người,có thêm 1 chút khuyến khích người đọc suy nghĩ lạc quan tích cực và hành động quyết liệt hơn.
Hình ảnh,các bài tập nhỏ trong sách kích thích sự sáng tạo,óc quan sát của ng đọc.Càng đọc sẽ càng thấy hay.
Áp dụng vào thực tế thì người đọc sẽ có cái nhìn sâu sắc và thú vị về mọi thứ trong cuộc sống.Sẽ cập nhật sau khi đọc hết cuốn sách này ;)
Thinkertoys is a recipe book for how to tap your creativity (you all have it, whether you realize it or not) and come up with some amazing ideas, both individually and in a group.My only regret is that I bought the audiobook, which means it's a little difficult to go back and randomly pick recipes. I might have to buy the hardcopy, too!
This book changed the way I think. With such tools and the kind of explanations and examples, this book one of the must read in the genre. This book covers complete breadth of creative thinking techniques.
Nice ideas for creativing.But too long to explain the ideas enough to make me so "boring a litte bit".Good to know a lot of knowledges about Thinking Techniques.
Started off interesting enough and has a lot of great strategies. The examples are interesting but too many of them. The whole thing became a slog.
I've read a number of books about creative-thinking. This one is easily the best of the bunch. Highly recommended.
Probably a better read for non-creative types. I didn't learn anything new.
Bullsh*t.
Still kind of reading this. I use it more as a reference. Lots of ideas of how to get out of a brain cramp. There are activities for right-brained and left-brained people. Everyone is creative.
