https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225180.The_Tooth_Book
I thought I had read all the Dr. Seuss books and I find out there are many left to read for me so I am trying to get them.
I wonder why I never saw this as a child?
Dr. Seuss was huge back then.
I loved the artwork and Dr. Seuss has such a simple way with words.
It is wonderful to read another book by him even if this is one for young children.
My nephew got my niece wanting to read this book so they both read it and really enjoyed it.
Besides Seuss's wonderful off the wall humor, we enjoy the illustrations as well.
WrensReads Review:I wish I read this book when I was first losing my teeth like seriously, this would have made me so happy to get rid of "set one" and get "set two" and I probably wouldn't have tried to untie knots with my teeth and so and so forth.I just love the way these things are drawn, you know?
You know what I am talking about.
Shout out to Bri who brought these books over to my house knowing I would finish them in a day!WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
Looks like a Dr. Seuss book, but really isn't. Not the same style or fun. It wasn't just me that noticed it, but my 5 yr old, while reading it himself this morning, noticed it too. Just not one of our favorites, although some of the pictures were pretty silly and made him laugh, like the jellyfish trying to play the trombone. A cute book, but don't be expecting the originality that is Dr. Seuss in this one.
This book is not good because I already know about teeth. Isaiah (4)
For a book about teeth, it didn't mention brushing or flossing, just a general "take care of your teeth" with creepy large-toothed characters.
My biggest complaint about the book was that I didn't appreciate the name-calling examples "don't be stupid like..." I also didn't like the suggestion to "don't bite your dentist...
bite someone else instead"Ummmm...
how about don't bite people!
For a book intended to be enjoyed by toddlers/preschoolers, the biting suggestion is ill-placed.I feel like I should have pre-read this book, as it was, I just stuck it right back into the library bag after the first reading so we wouldn't read it again.
This is currently Jill's favorite book.
My sister gave it to her less than two weeks ago, and Jill already walks around the house reciting it at random moments.
I wish he used a different word than "dumb" near the end, but it honestly is dumb to break your teeth untying knots and removing bottle tops, so I guess it's not that bad.
I just don't want Jill to start calling people dumb.
And the book does have some really good information about teeth.
Mostly though, Jill just thinks it is hilarious.
(Although she also currently thinks that jellyfish are called trombones.
I'm normally on board for all things Seuss, but this one was rather off.
I appreciate the showing of the variety of teeth and the variety of those who have them (all kinds of animals) but there was a weird shaming thing going on for animals who don't have teeth, like they're lesser or something.
And several times sense and facts were sacrificed to the rhyme, like the idea that creatures without teeth can't eat jam.
Teeth are in no way required for jam.
Don't tell kids lies.And the rhyme scheme was out of whack several times.
Not up to your usual standard, Seuss.
I had never read this book before, and I didn't know that Dr. Seuss wrote under the name of Theo LeSieg; I will definitely be looking for more books under that pseudonym.This book explores the world of teeth. Seuss explains why teeth are so important to both humans and animals.He shows the many ways teeth can be lost or damaged. He also has creatures, like a clam, describe in detail, why not having teeth can be a real problem.I love the bright and zany illustrations and know I will be reading this book many more times.
Along with  The Ear Book,  The Foot Book, and from what I guess,  The Eye Book, this is just a book of rhymes about teeth. It touches on the purpose of teeth (eating, speech, and smiling for pictures, haha), and the dos and don'ts for maintenance (which is kind of cool, if you ask me). My 10 month old daughter is OBSESSED with these books.
I really, really REALLY dislike the illustrations in this book.
My son wants me to "read" it (Flip the pages while he looks, but isn't patient enough with this particular book to actually let me read more than a few words at a time before **flip, flip flip**) but even he seems disenchanted with the book, except for the front and back inside cover images which have shadows of various animals and their teeth.
I have no idea why he wants me to read it every few nights except for that he wants to see the front and back inside cover.
Not Dr. Seuss' finest work. Seuss explains that everyone has teeth: doctors, Jack-o-laterns, lions, etc. Except clams and snails and chickens. I am not certain why the change of pace there. Then he returns with the plea to take take care of one's teeth.It's Dr. Seuss so it is good. But at the same time, it is not such a book one will hold up as the best.I will say, however, it may be a good book to illustrate for our classroom door in March. Something a little different. Ray McKie is the illustrator of this one.
I like it because it is all about the usage of teeth and how to take care of them.
The pages are filled with the does and don'ts when it comes to taking care of the teeth as well as rhymes.
This book supports linguistic because it teaches the children how to read many different words when it comes down to the language.
It also teaches the dangers of not taking care of the teeth.
I think the children would enjoy this book as they relate to their own teeth and can see how important it is to take care of their teeth.
I don't have much to say about this book because it was just a small read and I was just waiting to get my braces so I figured to read one of Dr. Seuss' old books that made when he was under the name Theo LeSeig.
I know that fact from the TV special : In Search of Dr. Seuss.
I can definitely say that Seuss' illustrations still look similar to the cartoons of Seuss that we know today but still feel like a traditional cartoonist drawing.
It's a nice quick-read to introduce children to teeth via book and I recommend any orthodontist or dentist to have these in their waiting room.
It's great book!Te deja con un buen sabor de boca, ayuda mucho cuando estas aprendiendo ingles,adquieres mas vocabulario, y es muy entretenido.
A book about teeth written by Dr. Suess. The illustrations, however, are done by someone else and they lack his charm. Despite this, it is a fun book that teaches children the purpose of teeth and the importance of taking care of them.
The book is all about a young boy who is learning about teeth.
Also the boy is told the importance of them once you get your permanent teeth.The main character is a young boy whose name is not mentioned throughout the book.
I liked it because it reminded me of all the children books I used to read when I was younger and I think it would do the same for other people.
Otherwise I would recommend it to young children so they can learn the importance of teeth, Around the ages two through five.
Purposes/use in the classroom:-Read aloud to make a curricular connection: Teachers can use this fun book to entertain their students and to teach them about an important part of our mouth-teeth!
This would be a fun book to incorporate with a lesson about different parts of our body and how we use our teeth/why teeth are important.-Independent reading: Kindergarten-1st; Students who are beginner readers would love this book.
Each page contains short sentences to help beginners become familiar with reading.-Literary elements: This book can be used to teach children theme such as the importance of keeping their teeth strong and healthy.
Different people tell him why they need teeth, and how bad it can be if you lose them.The text in this book is neat and well-placed.
Though there is plenty of blank space, the drawings don't need a background because they give the reader all the information they need to follow the story and remain entertained.
As a poetry book, this book does a great job of sucking the reader into the rhythm and uses fun words to help the reader's imagination.
As an informative book, it does a great job of using fun words to keep the reader interested in the informational text and the pictures help too.
This is a rhyming book about the importance of teeth.
Students would enjoy the rhyming and the illustrations, as it is a funny, colorful story.
They would also enjoy the humor that comes from characters using their teeth for things other than speaking or eating.
I would use this book when discussing hygiene in the classroom.
I would try and have a dentist come in and discuss the importance of teeth and keeping them clean.
I would also have students create a t-chart involving things that don't have teeth, and things that do.
These things would be provided, they would just have to sort them out.
This book is about teeth.
I like the rhymes and the repetition as they can be good in helping children to stay focused and also in enjoying the story.
There are some interesting words in this story which can be used to improve children's vocabulary.
The book is very funny and can be used to teach children about rhymes.
Great book to use comfort or calm a child on his or her dentist visit or simply to teach children about their teeth.The story also teaches children about how to use and care for their teeth.
My 5 yr old son read this book out loud to me.
Although it is an "I-Can-Read" type of book, it is a more advanced version of this type of book.
There were a number of words that my son needed assistance with.
That being said though, he really enjoyed this story about how to take care of your teeth.
He especially enjoyed the page with the "big boy" who ate too much junk food & sweets and was getting cavities.
He said that he did not want to be like that boy.
This book is great for younger children to learn all about teeth, such as who has them, what happens to them and how to take care of them. It would be a good book to share with children who are learning how to brush their own teeth or are scared of going to the dentist. By using with book with children who are going to the dentist and possibly losing baby teeth, this is a great introduction for how to care for them and what not to do. This book gives a good lesson but keeps illustrations fun and imaginative.
This book came in a set of beginner books that my stepson bought for my daughter when she was a baby and it has recently become a favorite nighttime read.
It is a Dr. Seuss book written under "Theo Lesig" with illustrations that are completely different than regular Seuss.
As evidenced by the title, the book talks about teeth: Who has teeth, how you get two sets and what to do and not do with teeth.
Like his other books, it rhymes but it is not nearly as silly.
My five year old likes it and it is a quick read.
LeSieg, with new illustrations by Joe Mathieu, about who has teeth, who doesn't, and how to keep the ones you have!"My Review: It looks like a Dr. Seuss book but it doesn't feel or sound like a Dr. Seuss book.
For some reason this didn't have the same flow as I am used to from his books.
It didn't capture Munchkin's attention like they usually do either (he actually picked up another book to pretend to read instead).
I was really looking forward to this book since we loved the Nose Book and Eye book so much.
This is a fun and informational book for kids!
It tells them why they have teeth, other people who have teeth, the different types of animals that have teeth, and what is the difference between big kids and little kids teeth.
It is fun to read a book that is dedicated entirely to teeth!This book isn't your typical Dr. Seuss book because it was illustrated by Joe Mathieu, however it still has the typical Dr. Seuss style with its rhyming words on each page!
Every reader big or small, short or tall will fall in love with this book demonstrating the different size teeth we all have.
I think the Tooth Book goes nicely with the Foot Book, The Ear Book, etc.
I think there is something inherently more serious about Teeth than ears, feet or hands, however, so as the book deals with teeth falling out & getting broken...
well, I guess it's just not my favorite thing to read.It might not be the easiest to read out loud, or have the polished cadence of some of the best Dr. Seuss books, but my boys really enjoy it.
I think it also helps them learn something of value, and therefore is good as a teaching tool as well.
I LOVE the illustrations in this children's book!
They come to life and jump right off of the page.
I have always been a big fan of Dr. Seuss, so I really enjoyed this book too.
This book reminds me of my childhood, when I was a little girl.
I would use this in my classroom by reading it to my students and then having a discussion about teeth.
ALL about teeth!
I would also want to make a main emphasis of how to properly take care of our teeth, so they can grow up and have healthy teeth!
Lets have us a teeth lesson!Dr. Seuss.
The tooth book.
This book is a brief and playful introduction to the different kinds of teeth that are found in the world -- reminiscent of The Foot Book but not as good. The text is by Dr. Seuss and illustrations by Joe Mathieu; while children might enjoy it, it's not nearly in the leage of some of Seuss's best work, although it does include wordplay and the wonderful rhythmic text he is known for. It is disconcerting to hear Seussical rhyme with illustrations that are so different from his, and the effect is a little incoherent -- not quite hitting the mark.
This book's dental hygiene is reduced to pandering by its lack of specificity (take care of your teeth rather than brush and floss). It actually neglects a popular counterargument from its target audience, who have first sets of teeth, by explaining that these teeth will be replaced without addressing why one should care for the first set. Furthermore, it says that losing the first set IS SCARY. Not can be, just is, teaching children that they HAVE to be afraid.
