https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65149.A_Summer_to_Die
It's a beautiful story, though, through and through, the kind that makes me happy to be alive.I recall relating to Meg so much as a kid, so I was surprised to find myself relating to her even more as an adult, both in retrospect and present-day ways.
It makes me happy to think I read this back when I was still figuring out who I was; if this book informed current me at all, I couldn't thank Lois Lowry enough.This time around I was irritated with the parents for not giving Meg more information about what was going on with Molly.
Fortunately there are enough copies of this wonderful book floating around to make it easily findable.I just learned that A Summer to Die was actually Lois Lowry's first young adult novel, written in the 1970s, well before the Anastasia books and Number the Stars and The Giver and basically being one of the most important writer of children's books, ever.
But it is also one of the best books she's written.There is a quality to some children's literature that is very hard to find in other books.
And adults who write about children often forget it, or reduce it too simplistically.Anyway, I love this book, a whole lot.
This was the first book that made me cry! I can remember being on my bed crying my little 11yr old eyes out and loving every minute of it. This is a book that everyone should read, especially if you have a sister!
I finished reading this at 2:30am this morning when I couldn't sleep.I almost didn't want to read this because it is like a little dandelion poof of a book, it is so super small I was like, I'll blink and I'll miss it!
I liked how most of the biggest information is told not through first-person dialogue (declaration, reaction) but by simple narrative statements, sometimes right in the middle of a chapter.
The symbolism of this entire subplot is perfect, but this is a 100% perfect chapter of book.The ending is also perfect: not just leaving us with a meaningful moment in Meg's connection to her sister, but viewing Meg having a personal lesson that is just as important.
I remember really enjoying this book. What can I say: I love stories about people with cancer, especially young people. And, as an only child, I also love reading about families/siblings, and this is a great sister story.
This book has stuck with me for so long, and I remember reading it in my mom's car, with The Beach Boys' "God Only Knows" playing in the background. The title eluded me until I was hunting around on here, and I am glad to have finally figured it out!
I have two sisters and we all read this book.
I think having sisters really brings this book to a new level.
My sisters and I don't always get along, especially when we all lived in the same house.
I have read this book again and again because it reminds me that even though I might not like my sister today, I still love her.
Once, I picked it up and started crying at the first chapter and did not stop for the entire book (I read it in one sitting).
It is very well written and perfect for young girls who have sisters.
This is a beautiful story about sisters. I recommend it to anyone that has a sister or best friend that they feel that close to...it's beautifully written; a short read that leaves an impact.
And for a first book like this, that's a good debut meaning to break anyone who reads it.This is the story of Meg and her older sister Molly.
Only to result for the young sister that Molly will never be coming home from the hospital again.It was very moving, it had a beautiful scenery, and it was breaking me all at once.
It was written in the most autobiographical way when Lois Lowry was influenced by the death of her older sister back in her young years.
From my perspective, this is a coming-of-age novel where thirteen-year-old Meg learns to accept the surroundings and rediscover herself among the company of different types of people which quite contradicts with the title.I assumed that the novel is about Molly's death or the relationship of Meg and her sister Molly.
But as I continued reading, it seemed more about Meg herself, her outlook, her hobbies, her thoughts on things.
Even Molly's death is not portrayed well and rather than expressing how her death affected everyone, it shows how much Meg has improved in her life.
Here are some things I never picked up on as a young teenager, perhaps the age of Meg in the book, perhaps also growing up with an older sister who shone a little brighter than everyone around her: Molly isn't mean and snobby!
You see that Meg has always loved Molly and looked up to her, but she loses her at a time when she's starting to accept herself, too.
Meg is conscious of how much more beautiful Molly is, but as she grows in the book, she starts to love those things about Molly without any cost to herself.
"A Summer to Die" written by Lois Lowry is a realistic fiction story that takes us on a memorable journey about 2 sisters that have distinctive interest and personality.
Lowry's contagious enthusiasm could be proven through the vigorous development of the protagonist and the antagonist in every chapter.
That's why the rearview mirror is smaller than the windshield" sums up the lesson gained from the plot.The simile applied in this quote is to reinforce in making perseverance and patience as priority in our life as it will be the solution to most of our obstacles.
(Thanks to the title, I'm not giving anything away here.) I know a lot of adults think children shouldn't read these kinds of depressing books but I adored them as a teen.
My copy of the book says that this is the story of two very remarkable sisters.
But I think the beauty of the book is quite the oppostie.
Meg and Molly aren't particularly remarkable young women.
Meg is a photographer, a loner, makes friends with older neighbors.
Meg's older friends, especially Will, are very important to her in helping her deal with the loss of her sister.
Cancer is not really a character however - this is more about the relationship between Meg and Molly.
Molly is the older sister - more accomplished, prettier, at least in Meg's eyes.
I see some of the relationship with my sister in this as well as the relationship between my 2 daughters before my younger daughter became ill with osteosarcoma, a rare bone cancer, and died.
My only criticism, and it is minor, is that Meg seems younger than 13, perhaps because this book was originally written in the late 70s.Quotes to remember:Time goes on, and your life is still there, and you have to live it.
When Molly gets sick, Meg realizes how lucky she was to have a sister like Molly with a daily smile, with a heart filled with love, and her generosity spreading everywhere she went.
I remember when Molly receives a gift, and the first thing she thinks about, is giving it to Meg. Lois left a huge message to me: Don't waste the time you have to be with your family because it will never come back.
This book can leave a big message in your heart, but not only there, in your life too.
God knows what it was about this book that had my 11-year old self obsessed—but obsessed I was! I had it permanently borrowed from our school library so attached I was! So this rating is from a younger me, but it is definitely to be read again to be reminded why, although most likely I'm so far from the innocent child I once was that my adult self will miss the meaning! Oh the tragedy of growing up.
My favorite teen lit of all time. Equally good reading as an adult. Haunting and beautiful, a story of ambiguous grief and unexpected friendship.
This is a very well-written book in which a girl deals with her sister's fatal illness and eventual death. Lowry handles a delicate situation deftly and thoughtfully. Highly recommended.
Since I haven't read every one of Ms. Lowri's books, I'm not qualified to say whether this is her best, but it is definitely one of her greatest.
A Summer to Die is about death, and the love and life that continues on even after heartbreak.
Put simply, it is my kind of story.
Sweet, but not cheesy.
Distinct message, without preaching.
Ms. Lowri is completely in her element here--she writes very freely and amazingly realistically.
After all, it's partially based on her own sisterhood.
I know I was encouraged myself not to take any life for granted.
Une histoire attendrissante, mais terriblement émouvante. J'ai fait mienne cette citation : « Le temps passe et la vie continue ; il faut bien la vivre. Au bout d'un certain temps, on se souvient davantage des bonnes choses que des mauvaises. Puis, petit à petit, tout ce que le silence a vidé se remplit à nouveau de rires et de mots et les bords ébréchés de la tristesse sont lissés par les souvenirs. »http://blogclarabel.canalblog.com/arc...
And it's cold, bitter cold, the kind of cold where you just can't go outside.Meg and Molly are sisters forced to share a bedroom in a small house in the country while their father, a professor of literature, completes a book.
The sisters clearly love and appreciate each other, but their relationship is put to the test when they are forced to share their bedroom.As life in their new, temporary country home begins to open up for them (Molly makes the cheerleading squad and has a boyfriend; Meg meets a neighbor who encourages her passion for photography), the sisters seem to be settling into a workable relationship until Molly becomes seriously ill and has to spend time in the hospital.You can guess from the title that it doesn't look good for Molly.
It was a bit slow to get going, but once the older sister started to get sick, I couldn't put the book down.I'm not sure whether to classify it as children's or YA.
OF DEATH." No wonder the library weeded it--if I were a kid I wouldn't pick up a book called "A Summer to Die" either.There are so many great recurring images and themes in this book--flowers, photography, country houses, gardens, quilts--I find it hard to imagine that it was impossible to pull a better title out of one of those.
While this is clearly meant to be a real turning point for the story, it feels as though it was put there so that there was something else in the book other than Meg's own tale.I found the connection between Meg and her "hippy" neighbours quite interesting, but the concept of her coming to photograph their birth was handled quite differently to how I think it might be today.
I would think that having some interwoven chapters from Molly's point of view may have made this even stronger, and perhaps having one or two from their parents too, would have really turned this into an even more rounded story.
I really like this book a lot because it was so descriptive it made a clear picture of the characters and settings that are in the book.
I only would recommended this book to people who like sad endings in books.
daughter Molly and Meg .
But meg or molly didn't know that Molly the oldest sister had a illness that can cost her her life.
Until one day Meg is tested by the illness.
2 weeks passed and Molly died the family moved and the end.
That is were the book ended I hope you like this book.
So I decided to read it.Meg lives in the beautiful shadow of Molly.
Molly is everything Meg feels she is not.
The sister, mom, and dad have moved to the country so dad can finish writing a book while on sabbatical.
Here, Meg gets sick and Molly comes into her own.
She finds that the things that make her not like Molly are also her strengths.
Just after a particularly moving moment, I glanced at the clock to realize lunch was over.
Not too many books move me like this one.
It tells the story of 13 year old Meg and her older sister, Molly.
Meg is jealous of her sister because of all the things that Molly has.
One night, Meg wakes up and finds out that Molly has a nosebleed so bad her parents takes her to the hospital.
With anyone hardly home, Meg goes and hangs out with the old man that her parents rented the house from.
Meg and the old man end up having a love for taking/developing pictures.
This book is just flat out sad.
The main character is 13 and everyone else in the book is older.
I love love love this book! I have read it before so I read it again because I liked it so much! I was about a girl Meg who is jealous of her sisters beauty. But she meets new friends and her sister gets this bad disease too! I would recommend this book to anyone because it wasn't really a book not to not like. I read it because the title was interesting and I've also seen people read it! The ending is fantastic!
I remember reading this book as a kid soooo many times. It is still as good as I remember. It taught me a lot about how to look at life - how there is both happy and sad times, how siblings are different, and how we see ourselves is not often how others see us. In my opinion it's a book perfect for those earlier teenage years were you're not quite sure of yourself and the world you live in. Love it !
I really, really liked reading this book. It was one of the best books I have ever read. The author made me feel like I was the character. I could see how the main character felt about herself and her sister who she envied. The main character changed eventually in the story. It was certainly sad for her when her sister died of a deadly disease. I can see how difficult life was for her and her parents after the terrible loss. Overall, this story is just fantastic.
This book swept through my 5th grade class, all of the girls waiting for their turn to read it. I still remember exactly where it was shelved in the school library. At the start of the second to last chapter, I cried so hard that the words all blurred together on the page. This book was made for pre-teen pre-angst.
