https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/264891.Genesis
In one way it is a compressed history, footnotes and all, but the way it is written makes it like a cornucopia, collage, or mosaic that includes: myths, tableaus like dioramas or time-machine windows; dramatic slices of lives of the invaders and colonizers, the natives they subjugated and the African slaves they imported to work in plantations and mines.
Why do white people own so many pets? We're not allowed to own people anymore.I got that off of the Internet. Three years ago Governor William Berkeley could proudly remark: I thank God, there are no free schools nor printing, and I hope we shall not have either for a hundred years; for learning has brought disobedience and heresy, and sects into the world, and printing has divulged them.-Yorktown, Virginia, 1674 I got that from this book, a prime target for trigger-happy literature banners the
In the twelve books of the General History of New Spain, Sahagún and his young assistants have saved and assembled ancient voices, the fiestas of the Indians, their rites, their gods, their way of counting the passage of years and stars, their myths, their poems, their medicines, their tales of remote ages and the recent European invasion…History sings in this first great work of American anthropology.Six years ago King Philip II had those manuscripts and all the native codices copied and translated by Sahagún seized so that no original or translation of them should remain.
From 1492-1518, the era of discovery and exploration (24 narratives, 17 pages); from 1519-1531, the era of the conquest of Mexico (the Aztec empire; 32/26); from 1532-1572, the long, arduous, destructive, and immensely profitable enterprise of conquering the native peoples of the high Andes in Peru and Bolivia (the Inca empire; 85/62); finally, the century and a quarter following, in which the Spanish and other European countries fortified their domination over the original cultures of the New World (~165/136).Essentially, what Galeano would probably refer to (from the book's title) as the Genesis of colonialism.There are many types of topics treated.
A history that you experience through the magic of language.The very first chapter is aptly entitled "The Creation" and its footnote says it is taken from a book called "Watunna: Mitologia Makiritare." Galeano presented it this way:"The woman and the man dreamed that God was dreaming about them.God was singing and clacking his maracas as he dreamed his dream in a cloud of tobacco smoke, feeling happy but shaken by doubt and mystery.The Makiritare Indians know that if God dreams about eating, he gives fertility and food.
مولانا غاليانو...حكاء أمريكا اللاتينية الأعظم...في الجزء الأول من ثلاثية عن التاريخ...تاريخ البشرية كما لم يروي من قبل..بسم الله..فلنبدأ..*******************************************علمونا عن الماضي بطريقة جعلتنا نستكين الي الحاضر بضمائر جافة.
سجنوه في المتاحف ودفنوه تحت أكاليل الورود ووراء تماثيل برونزية ورخام تذكاري.جردت أمريكا اللاتينية طوال قرون من الذهب والفضة.
إن التاريخ الرسمي لأمريكا اللاتينية يقتصر علي استعراض عسكري لطغاة يرتدون بزات عسكرية لم تستخدم من قبل.
أنا كاتب يحب أن يساهم في إنقاذ الذاكرة المخطوفة لكل أمريكا وخصوصا لأمريكا اللاتينية .
ومن أي ممارسات جنسية واغتصابات جاءت..غاليانو العظيم من مقدمة ثلاثيته..ذاكرة النار ******************************************** كتاب صعب..متعب وممتع في آن واحد...
غاليانو يكتب تاريخ أمريكا اللاتينية تماما كما تم صناعته...بالدماء..
ماكرهتوش و ماحبتوش. فكرته مميزة بس مليت بعد اول ١٥٠ صفحة تقريبا.
Έφυγε με ένα κανό από την Αϊτή, μαζί με τους δικούς του, και βρήκε καταφύγιο στις σπηλιές και τα βουνά της ανατολικής Κούβας.Εκεί, δείχνοντας ένα καλάθι γεμάτο χρυσάφι, είπε:«Αυτός είναι ο θεός των Χριστιανών.
Από τη γυναίκα του, της φυλής των Μάγια, απέκτησε τρία παιδιά.Το 1519 ο Ερνάν Κορτές έστειλε να τον βρούν:«Όχι», είπε ο Γκονθάλο στον αγγελιοφόρο, «Κοίτα τα παιδιά μου πόσο όμορφα είναι.
Θα τις δώσω στα παιδιά μου και θα τους πώ: "Αυτά τα παιχνίδια τα στέλνουν τα αδέρφια μου, από την πατρίδα μου".»Πολύ αργότερα, ο Γκονθάλο Γκερέρο έπεσε υπερασπιζόμενος άλλη πατρίδα, πολεμώντας δίπλα σε άλλα αδέρφια, εκείνα που ο ίδιος είχε επιλέξει.
Ήταν ο πρώτος κατακτητής που κατακτήθηκε από τους Ινδιάνους.
هل أنا من سلالة الهنود الحمر؟ بدات اعتقد ذلك،هذا الهوس بثقافتهم و بالمحو العنيف للتاريخ للروح للحضار
Struggling to make a better world...those born oppressed and those born oppressor, together.Colonialism is as much the story of those who fought back as the story of those who "won." America* is as much the story of its Indigenous nations as the story of its first undocumented** immigrants.
This isn't something to pick up without a certain grounding in the more mundane facts of Latin American history: being familiar with the characters and settings in Galeano's stories is key.
I'd probably recommend starting with Open Veins of Latin America if you want to read Galeano's work, rather than with Memory of Fire.
A beautiful book that exist in the strange ground between Howard Zinn”s People’s History and Borges’s Brief History of Infamy. It featured the rage and the unpeeling of the veneer of nostalgia and romance of history of the former and the irony, pocket novels, morbid humor of the latter. This is not a scholarly or popular history though the author does show his research, but more in the realm of epic poem and Borges, a savage and beautiful book. I can’t wait for the rest of the trilogy.
I will say that this book didn't hold my attention, for the following reasons: basically a history lesson of N America from pre-1492 Creation Myths, up to 1700AD, with the death of Charles II, told in a rather dry narrative, in short Vonnegut-like chapters.
I really wanted to like this book.
So I'm gonna be that person who gives two-stars (keep in mind, it still means I thought it was 'Ok') to a work that averages 4.3 stars.
I kinda feel like the one person who can't see the rocketship in the 3D Magic Eye poster and just sees a mess of pixels.
First, I am white and second, the history I know about Latin America Is depressing in what we did to the natives. I am sorry for this. Reading this book, told in small segments or stories reinforced what the Europeans did to the Americans, was just painful. I started in earnst but after awhile it was shelved for anything happier. It took me about four months to read and was glad to finish it. One of those books that I am glad its out there but the guilt for being white is too painful.
صعبة .. متعبة
And why is it woe to us that Eduardo Hughes Galeano died?
Because the only truth you know is what you get over the Tube...This tube is the most awesome God-damned force in the whole godless world, and woe is us if we fail to tear our eyes away from it in favor of a book every now and then, and that’s why woe is us that Eduardo Hughes Galeano died."-Peter Beale on Eduardo Galeano's death.*When I was little I used to lie, like hell.
*So woe is us that Eduardo Hughes Galeano is dead.
"لست مؤرخاً، أنا كاتب يحب أن يساهم في إنقاذ الذاكرة المخطوفة لكل أمريكاوخصوصاً لأمريكا اللاتينية،الأرض المحتقرة والمحبوبة : أحب أن اتحدث معها ، أن اتقاسم أسرارها ، أن أسألها من أي صلصال شاق ولدت ومن أية (...)اغتصابات جاءت -أنشودة كوزكو-رغبت لامةان يكون لها شعر ذهبيمتألقاً كالشمسقوياً كالحبوناعماً كالضبابيحله الفجرلينسج ضفيرةيعلم عليهاعقدة بعد عقدةالأقمار التي تعبروالأزهار التي تذبل"
This is a massive and beautiful and utterly devastating portrait of the history of the violation, enslavement, and genocide carried out upon the people of so-called America, up to 1700.
It has to be so, else we fall back into the same old whitewashed comforting myths of progress.Powerful, skillful work, but I will be taking a break before I move on to Faces and Masks, Volume 2 of Memory of Fire.
Galeano starts off by reminding us this is a work of literature and not an anthology, and for this reason I'm not entirely sure how to review it.
Firstly, because I don't entirely trust translations of literature, and secondly because I don't believe Galeano.
As a literary work, the first volume in the Memory of Fire trilogy is astounding - its gut-wrenching vignettes and spiritually cohesive yet stylistically diverse journey is late 20th century prose at its finest, but as an anthology and as a history of a people, it is supreme.
Galeano has the unique and much envied ability to tell the whole story in a few words.
The first of the `Memory of Fire' trilogy, which taken together make up Galeano's modern history of Latin America - a mosaic of historical moments carefully put together, well researched and quite moving.
Taken in its entirety the series is a never ending - mostly painful journey of Latin America's struggle to define its own future.
This first volume starts with native legends - fantastic, humane - every bit as rich as Greek mythology, from which Latin America can never completely disassociate itself (despite trying).
Much of this section has been covered by others; still the way that Galeano puts it all together is quite remarkable.
Bu kadar fazla referansa ait bu kadar detay bilgilerin derlenmesi insanı gerçekten hayrete düşürüyor. Latin uygarlık tarihi meraklıları ya da o bölgeyi tanıyanlar, o bölgede yaşayanlar için oldukça zevkle okunacak bir eser olmalı. Benim içinse bazı kısımlarını sıkılarak da okusam genel olarak ilgi çekici bir eserdi. Serinin ikinci ve üçüncü kitaplarında daha yakın tarihe ait olayların anlatılacağını tahmin ederek daha çok ilgi duyacağımı düşünüyorum.
غاليانو يؤرخ اغتصابات البشر للبشر ، أعجبني الفصل الأول أكثر لما به من خيال جامح و صور جمالية منتقاة بعناية.
Galeano is a fierce writer... the first in a trilogy of books detailing/explaining/ravaging the Westernized view of the history/culture/society of, as he calls them, the Americas... digging into the ancient prehistory of the region and its multiethnic peoples and their realities... passages about culture, religion, commerce, trade, daily life... a harsh read for the "Make America Great Again" crowd, or anyone who believes 'the white man' is the peak of civilization, or is even, in fact, civilized...
It certainly is those lands' and its peoples' sad memory, their memory of fire.Before I started this novel I was prepared for the depressive stories, as I knew from other reviews on the internet that this depicts the true history of Latin America, of how greedy Europeans and their colonial rules ended a civilization, how they murdered thousands of people and destroyed a culture.
The passion of the writer is palpable and it is really hard to not get emotional while reading this masterpiece.The book is roughly divided into two parts, first part is 'First Voices' which tells the various myths and legends of the indian people who used to live in the land of South America before the conquistadors came.
Copy via Netgalley and Open Road This is a book you are either going to love or going to hate. There really is no in-between. And you wouldn’t know until you have read at least a quarter or more of it. Genesis is the story of the Americas, in particular South America, and the invasion of it by the Europeans, mostly the Spanish in this book. The story is conveyed via the use of small, short mini stories. Some of these stories are creation myths of First Peoples, some are the views of the Incas, M
Genesis is the story of the Americas, in particular South America, and the invasion of it by the Europeans, mostly the Spanish in this book.
Some of these stories are creation myths of First Peoples, some are the views of the Incas, Mayas, and other tribes as the Spanish arrive, some the view of the would be conquerors, and some the view of those who stayed in the Old World.
He also looks at the role of women, both native and Spaniard, and how power shifts and changes.
In short, the book is powerful, thought provoking, and not at all easy reading.Crossposted at Booklikes.
A radical extermination because of the Aztecs and the Incas, they tried to obliterate even the memory.No Bible for them, no revelation, only torture, disease and death.The book consists of short stories that end with the death of the last Spanish Habsburg, the sickly and demented Charles II, with whom had ceased both the dynasty and the possession of the conquered lands in America.Excellent reading for which I thank Open Road Integrated Media and Netgalley.Come la Bibbia inizia con la Genesi, anche questa specie di Bibbia dell'America Latina che Galeano ha composto come una trilogia, e intitolato Memory of Fire, inizia con una Genesi.
It was well worth the time it took to get through it, and I enjoyed every minute of it.It reads almost like a book of poems, or at least that's how I read it.
It's like a mosaic of small snapshots that, put together, tell a horror story.
It's like reading a scrapbook through pictures.
Galeano's language is creative and poetic, telling even the most horrific of stories in a way that's absolutely beautiful.
I did to an extent, but I couldn't really follow them easily because of the fragmented way it was written.
Honestly, there is nothing I can criticize about this book and I absolutely cannot wait to read the next two.
The Indians Say: "The land has an owner?
The land is alive.
It brings to birth houses.
It brings to birth people.
How bought?" ~from Memory of Fire Volume 1: Genesis, by Eduardo Galeanojadi pengen baca setelah nemu kutipan di atas dari http://sensemaya.org/2011/04/25/india...ttg penulisnya:Eduardo Hughes Galeano is a Uruguayan journalist, writer and novelist.
The author himself has proclaimed his obsession as a writer saying, "I'm a writer obsessed with remembering, with remembering the past of America above all and above all that of Latin America, intimate land condemned to amnesia"He has received the International Human Rights Award by Global Exchange (2006) and the Stig Dagerman Prize (2010).
Amazing piece of work.
The first of a trilogy, Genesis is an inventive narrative history of the Americas.
Beginning with aboriginal myths & legends and working through European colonization until 1700, it covers every place from the frigid Alaskan coast to the southern tip of Argentina, with great emphasis on the Caribbean, Peru & Brazil.
In short, powerful glimpses, Galeano brings the reader into the minds of the heroes, villains, conquerors, victims, and "average" people of the Americas during this time.
It was a blood-drenched, chaotic stretch of history, and every segment of the book conveys the desires and greed that fueled it, as well as the agonies and suffering that resulted.
فأية أهداف وغايات هذه التي تجعل من كرامة البشر تجارة ومن امتهان خصوصيتهم والعبث بمصيرهم هدفا أسمى ..
النار التي أحرقت حضارة شعوب ونهبت أرضهم لا يحدد الكاتب ما إذا كان الكتاب ينتمي إلى الرواية أو المقالة أو الملحمة التاريخية أو غيرها أعتقد أن هذا الكتاب ينتمي إلى هذه الأنواع معا..
هذا الكتاب يقول لنا مرة أخرى إن التاريخ ما وجد لكي ننظر إليه وكأنه أحداث منفصلة وقعت في فترة من الزمن بل هو حياة حصلت في الماضي لكنها أفضت إلى الحاضر وعلينا أن نعيشه مجددا بكل حواسنا كي نصنع مستقبلنا..و لا بد من الإشارة إلى أن الترجمة لعبت دورا هاما في أن يبقى النص محتفظا بحميميته وأصالته وسلاسته وعذوبته ..متلهفة لقراءة الجزئين المتبقيين..
The Memory of Fire Trilogy is beautifully written, ironic, funny, sad, unbelievable, historical, and I will read this series over and over. For those who dislike history, check this out- history isn't dead, according to Galeano- it's alive: breathing, twisting, forming our ideas about the present- it's uplifting and brutal, often for those who have no voice- Galeano gives them a voice with this trilogy, presenting Latin American/world history from the views of those on the periphery.
I'm all for semi-experimental, fragmented narratives, but I ended up being desperate for something to hold into and carry me through these bits of history. I gave up halfway through. I appreciate the complication of history, but felt it was lacking in something. Or maybe I was lacking a bit in historical context.
