https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31501.The_League_Of_The_Scarlet_Pimpernel
*sighs, shovels yet another book on the RTC pile *
The Scarlet Pimpernel is both a flower of five crimson petals and an English Lord named Percy Blakeney, who uses that code name in France to smuggle aristocrats and their families away to safety from the French Revolution and the guillotine, into England.
The league works with him, helping fool the Committee for Safety in ingenious ways and smuggling people out of France.These books are a series of vignettes where the Scarlet Pimpernel goes against Chauvelin, the head of the Committee for Safety - which controls the guards, the spies, the jails, the Surete and the guillotine.
It was done by several readers, and I just couldn't stand some of them.
This book is actually a collection of fairly long short stories about the Scarlet Pimpernel.
They are just fun stories that really give a sense of what the Scarlet Pimpernel's day-to-day adventures in between his really big, hair-raising escapades that are in the other books.
Because of that, these books have more of the rest of the League of the Scarlet Pimpernel, especially Andrew Fawkes, and Marguerite isn't in it besides a few references to her.
It comes out really clearly in these short stories how much Fawkes is his right hand man.
Chauvelin promised an armed guard of a dozen men around the house and left, with the Leridans felling quite safe.Chauvelin then convinced the Public Prosecutor that the man in the cell was in fact the Pimpernel with a note containing an English rhyme and a five-petaled flower, drawn in scarlet.
The man in the cell was not the Scarlet Pimpernel, but he dismissed the look as that of the exhausted and over-worked.Satisfied, Chauvelin returns to the Leridans' house, where he finds the guards he had ordered.
Whatever charm and entertainment may have brightened her original works certainly had grown stale by the time this collection was written.
The plots are so patently absurd and the social commentary so one-sided as to overwhelm any sense of adventure left in the stories.The wretched excesses, corruption, venality and mindless brutality of the men who quickly turned the French Revolution into their own blood-soaked orgy is well known; but I found myself gagging on Orczy's wistful admiration of the old aristocracy whose abuses triggered the whole mess in the first place.
Pimpernel and his minions have long outstayed their welcome.
A series of short stories about the exploits of the Scarlet Pimpernel.
Entertaining, but much the same as the others.
Orczy did a good job of making the stories build on each other.
You learn an identity in one story, and that knowledge is key in the next.
Made it feel more like reading a novel instead of a series of short stories.
I have to admit that I have grown out of the Scarlet Pimpernel a little bit.
They were something I loved in my tweens, but now it's a bit repetitive.
However it's taken until now to find some of the novels.
This book takes place during the Reign of Terror in France. While the Committee of Public Safty is working to guillotine supporters of the aristocracy, the Scarlet Pimpernel and his associates are working even harder to save them and spirit them out of France to safety in England. Although the book becomes somewhat repetitious, I did enjoy it and would recommend it.
Overall, this was an interesting compilation of stories about the League of the Scarlet Pimpernel, a band of Englishmen who rescued aristocrats and other unfortunate souls who were destined for the guillotine during the French Revolution.I really enjoyed reading this book as I started, but about halfway through, my interest started to wane a bit.
The stories become a bit repetitive - they all can be summarized to have a similar plot.
There is some unfortunate soul being terrorized by the Committee of Public Safety.
Another great book about the Scarlet Pimpernel
This was a good book. Not as good as The Scarlet Pimpernel, which is a personal favorite but a good read. This gives you short stories of some os the adventures and still fun read.
Great book - very clever.
Outfoxing Chauvelin during the French Revolution The Scarlet Pimpernel is both a flower of five crimson petals and an English Lord named Percy Blakeney, who uses that code name in France to smuggle aristocrats and their families away to safety from the French Revolution and the guillotine, into England.
The league works with him, helping fool the Committee for Safety in ingenious ways and smuggling people out of France.These books are a series of vignettes where the Scarlet Pimpernel goes against Chauvelin, the head of the Committee for Safety - which controls the guards, the spies, the jails, the Surete and the guillotine.
I didn't like this quite as much as the first book I'm afraid, but it was quite well written in places.
Three quotes:(Baronness Orczy gives a rare depiction of a girl who dances on the streets as dejected instead of sexy.
The crowd stood round her, sullen and apathetic; poor, miserable wretches like herself, staring at her antics with lack-lustre eyes and an ever-recurrent contemptuous shrug of the shoulders.
These were not times when it was possible for any girl, however carefully nurtured and tenderly brought up, to remain ignorant of the realities and the brutalities of life.
In that opening story, Orczy rather cleverly places her hero at the side of the bath immediately following the murder of Jean Paul Marat.Other highlights include a brief appearance from Robespierre, a couple of first-person narratives from those hoodwinked by the Pimpernel at close quarters, and a trio of stories to round things up where the master of disguise coughs and splutters about as a consumptive old codger called Rateau.
No great shakes, but it's hard not to enjoy Orczy's zesty style and the blurted oaths of those befuddled by the Pimpernel."Name of a dog!
Some cool things happen (like they allude to famous historical events and put them into the context by which English aristocrats viewed stuff, as opposed to history books that focus on the French citizen's point of view), but overall, this book is 1) very repetitive and 2) very episodic in a sense- it is as if every chapter is a new episode of a tv show and only barely ties back to the main plot until the end, altho it could be argued that there isn't really a main plot.

A collection of short stories telling the various adventures of the Scarlet Pimpernel and his League. Overall a very nice read though the themes in the stories quickly get repetitive. Funny thing is that some of the stories had much better plot than the (chronologically) previous book Sir Percy Leads the Band. Chauvelin appears two or three times and Marquerite has a very small cameo in one of the stories.
I love the Scarlet Pimpernel series. I really do. Even though the stories aren't that original (exempting the first one...that was the best), and you can always predict how the story will unfold, there is just something so comforting about reading it. It made me feel nostalgic. Anyway, I recommend this to Pimpernel fans who have already read the original. It will not be the best thing you ever read, but you will have fun reading it!
A collection of short stories, the only reason this book doesn't get my usual adoring five stars is it got kind of...predictable. While the costumes are truly genius and clever, it was  always  Percy. Eventually I grew somewhat bored. Every now and then a story would pop that would save it from three stars, and I would certainly reccomend it to Scarlet Pimpernel fans, but I wouldn't call it the best work of Orczy.
I wasn't aware that this particular Pimpernel sequel was all short stories, otherwise I may have started with a different Pimpernel adventure to get me back in the groove. I enjoyed the book for what it was, but began to miss characters that existed for reasons other than to show off amazing escape techniques. Anxious to see what the rest of the series (or those I can get on my Kindle for free) will bring.
I do enjoy the stories of the Scarlet Pimpernels escapades! They are funny and daring and Percy is just like a superhero character created by Emmuska Orczy. They stories are fairly simple, but still ingenious as always. And the characters are very real and their struggles, in the circumstances believable. I often feel sorry for both the good guys and the bad guys. And just to note; I listened to this as an audio book.
I am actually going to stop short on this one I think. While it is really fun, it is becoming predictable. While the stories are fun and you can't be sure that you have guessed who the pimpernel is, I keep finding that I guessed right every time and that it is getting a little too easy to spot him. It is a fun read but I am ready to start something new.
This was a series of little adventures The Scarlet Pimpernel got into in France. These adventures took place after The Scarlet Pimpernel, the novel. It became a source of amusement for me to guess which character was Sir Percy Blakeney in disguise. I would have liked to have seen more of the other men in the League, though.
I didn't really get into this one like the other two. It was basically a compilations of short stories where the Scarlet Pimpernel saves people...which is ok, but you don't really get to know any of the characters very well. I got half way through the book and gave up....I just didn't feel motivated to finish it.
Feel-good fablesThis book consists of 11 short stories loosely connected by a common theme and the same hero. The theme is the near miraculous saving of falsely accused French citizens during the Terror. Just not very exciting.
I really loved the first Scarlet Pimpernel that she wrote and really enjoyed reading other stories about him. This book is a lot of his short adventures and I love her writing style even though I'm not familiar with all the french words in it.
It was an entertaining book, albeit sometimes confusing. It is written in an older English style, so it was sometimes difficult to decipher the meaning of sentences. However, on the whole it is a good classic. The plot twists in each mini story were cleverly done.
A really wonderful collection of short stories. Very imaginative, sometimes aggravating (you do start to feel bad for Chauvelin a bit), and short enough to read if you've only got a small amount of time to spare.
I only found out recently that there sequels to "The Scarlet Pimpernel." Unfortunately, based on my reading of this one, they do not at all live up to the original. I decided to forego reading any others.
I've bogged down in this story. I loved The Scarlet Pimpernel, but this one stretches believability too thin. No one can pull off the amazing feats that Blakeney does time after time. I got to about page 131.
