https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109512.The_Fist_of_God
Description: From the behind-the-scenes decision-making of the Allies to the secret meetings of Saddam Hussein's war cabinet, from the brave American fliers running their dangerous missions over Iraq to the heroic young spy planted deep in the heart of Baghdad, Forsyth's incomparable storytelling skill keeps the suspense at a breakneck pace.
But Saddam's ultimate weapon has been kept secret even from his most trusted advisers, and the nightmare scenario that haunts General Schwarzkopf and his colleagues is suddenly imminent, unless somehow, the spy can locate that weapon--The Fist of God--in time.
The breath taking moments that happen with the Lead character Mike martin who does the spying job for the British in" Iraq occupied Kuwait and ruthless streets of Baghdad" to clinch the astonishing secrets of Saddam's Mindset to 'war and victory' and also the revelation of the possibility of Iraq possessing Qubth ut allah or simply 'the fist of god' which is a Nuclear Bomb if engaged could change the Fate of all the Arab Nations.The link up of Mike Martin and Jericho( a double agent) was fabulous and it escalates the tension and curiosity to a heart stopping level as they had to work in an extremely confidential way so as to avoid falling into the hands of diligent and dexterous Hassan Rahmani(counter intelligence) and the ruthless Head of secret police Omar khatib.
The first few chapters of Forsyth's Persian Gulf War espionage thriller are a little wooden - stock characters, cliched dialogue - but once the plot is established and takes over, that's all you care about.
I'm not one who likes the blending of fact and fiction in these types of novels, and I was constantly googling to see what characters were invented, whether Iraq actually did have a nuclear weapon in 1990, and how Scuds compared to the al-Husayn missiles.
Not everyone lives to see the end of the book.
Its twisty turns, particularly at the end, make it a slightly above average thriller.
One of my favourite books on earth! I love the character of Mike Martin and the strange coincidence of events that occur.
The Fist Of God is a wonderfully tense, highly readable thriller on the First Gulf War. Forsyth carries his readers into the intrigue of the Middle East, and inside the minds of the decision makers in their headquarters in Washington, London, Baghdad, and Saudi Arabia. Frederick Forsyth uses his excellent journalistic way of writing (brief, effective descriptions, dialogue that is actually interesting, well chosen settings, and a wonderful mix of fictional drama and real-life) to effortlessly carry the reader into a world that is as exciting as it is intelligent. A top-notch geopolitical thriller.
I picked this up in a charity shop in Scarborough in late July 2013. If you like FF he never lets you down. The military James Bond. Odds stacked against. The nature of the detailed writing and the techniques deployed to build suspense, evolve character and occasionally shock delivers, as always, and I've read a handful of his work, the un-put-down-able novel. Icon. Avenger. The Day of the Jackal. France, The Middle East, Russia. He's the master of the genre. And he's at it again here in the thick of Saddam Hussein's Baghdad.
The Gulf War and invasion and liberating of Kuwait.The Fist of God is a 1994 novel mixing known fact with fiction to tell a story of the coalition forces in the Persian Gulf War racing against time to discover the true nature of Saddam Hussein's secret weapon, 'The Fist of God.'1931- Before this Kuwait was the 19th province os irag.
Takes place in Egypt.The Magic Flute is noted for its prominent Masonic elements; Schikaneder and Mozart were Masons and lodge brothers Time: Egypt, about the reign of Rameses I.Place: Near and at the Temple of Isis, Memphis.Schikaneder had persuaded Mozart to compose the music to a puppet show for him.
I read FIST OF GOD years and years ago - before I knew of Goodreads, and therefore, before I wrote reviews. However, I did keep a computerized spreadsheet of books read with ratings. I imported the books and my ratings into Goodreads. Even without my review, my recollection of a few outstanding books remain; it is usually the Frederick Forsyth’s novels which are branded in my mind as remarkably unforgettable ( along with Ken Follett and the early Nelson DeMille novels). I give few 5 stars, even to Mr. Forsyth, but this one is so outstanding and richly deserves it!
One of the best books he wrote. It contains a lot of side information that makes it very 3 dimensional and believable.
La superabundancia de datos técnicos militares ralentiza una trama por lo demás interesante. El saber el final de la historia no ayuda al interés, claro. Me gusta, en general, como escribe Forsyth...pero aquí creo que se enloda demasiado con la documentación militar. Muy recomendable para grandes forofos del armamento militar. Y muy muy muy documentado.
149 - 2017
Forsyth è un maestro del genere spy-story, autore di romanzi come: "Il giorno dello sciacallo", "I mastini della guerra", "Dossier Odessa", "Il Quarto Protocollo" e molti altri.
Nonostante l'incredulità dello Stato Maggiore, Martin riesce a infiltrarsi a Baghdad e a preparare un audace piano di sabotaggio.Spionaggio, azioni dietro le linee, tanta tecnologia e spiegazioni da manuale nel più puro stile Forsyth.
Ho letto tutti i suoi libri e questo è diventato subito il mio preferito perchè è avvincente, interessante e verosimile.Consiglio vivamente la lettura di questo libro, sia per la parte puramente romanzata, ma anche per quella storica di ricerca, da ottimi spunti di riflessione su quello che era, ormai parliamo di una decina d'anni fa, lo scacchiere mediorientale.Forsyth è un maestro indiscusso di questo genere.
Through the allies of the main character Forsyth skillfully portrays the methods of the british S.I.S and the Israeli Mossad in extracting the secrets from within their relevant enemies.
These make for some of the most interesting threads of the story, the unassuming, normal and innocent people they use to gain the information they require from each others governments.The inner workings of the Iraqi regime and how Saddam must have controlled his minister’s is another of the sub plots of the story, along with the A.M.A.M, the Iraqi secret police, and how an organisation like that can control a population.Overall, 7-10, you can imagine everything in this novel actually happening and the concise annotation of events and the clandestine operations and conversations of the characters put Fred as one of the best for military/spy/espionage thrillers.
I had loved Forsyth's The Day of the Jackal, the first book I read from this author, and also the first one I read through Bookcrossing.
So it is no wonder that I also really liked this one.
Even though the theme is very different (The Day of the Jackal is about an attempted murder of General de Gaulle and this one is about the first Gulf War and the liberation of Kuwait), they both share an attention to detail, accuracy of information, suspense and a great ability to mix historical facts with a fiction plot.
A really well crafted and hard to put down book.
I read its nearly 600 pages like a breeze and I am not a particularly fast reader.
A pity some of the reviews seem parsimonious but having read this thriller 20 years after its first publication and the actual war, I found it a really compelling read. As expected, the detail was excellent with much thorough research done, the pace wss blistering and the characters well-fleshed out. It was unputdownable, l really enjoyed it and it must merit full marks from me. To this day, not many authors and thrillers can compare with Forsyth and this book.
I wrote him to complain that I didn't think the ending was fair ... and he wrote me back a handwritten note explaining why he thought he'd been perfectly fair! ;-) But I was just a kid and like an idiot, I lost the note. :-(
This was set during the Gulf War and the author obviously spent a lot of time researching for this story. It was a gripping, awe inspiring tale. A little gruesome for my taste, especially the ending, but still, a very enjoyable read.
One of the things that makes Forsyth so great, as was true in this book, is that you can't find the line between fact and fiction. Fist of God was great in that way. He sets the table with non-fiction and then starts the rollercoaster.
I couldn't put this down. Fascinating and gives a look into war in middle east.
Great book. this will give you a comprehensive detail of the Iraq invasion of Kuwait and what went afterwards. Frederick Forsyth is a great storyteller with a keen eye on the details. And the climax in the end is amazing :).. worth reading it.
I wish there were more character development, more info about the background of the characters rather than the overwhelming details of everything else.
THE FIST OF GOD, written in 1994, is still rattling as I believe it was, when written more than two decades ago.Author had sewn a major thriller witht the yarn of Iraq's invasion on Kuwait.
With Kuwait under Iraq's control was burning, Brits managed to pass on a SAS commando, Mike Martin, deep inside the Kuwait to gather the intel & resist the Iraqi forces as he could.
This picks the fable's pace & kept the reader gripped till very end.In the plot, author precisely enunciate the conditions on the ground zero either in Iraq or in kuwait or in the Riyadh, base of Coalition forces.
Not Forsyth's best work but it certainly bears all of his usual features -- a focus on Cold War and post Cold War geo-political confrontations, well researched detail, complex plot lines and some truly menacing villans.
As in many previous books, Forsyth manages to construct fictional stories populated by real people whom we immediately recognize -- in this case Saddam Hussein.
He does it so seamlessly that it's easy to lose sight of where real events end and fiction takes over.One criticism: Forsyth is overly fond of including minute detail about his subject matter -- things such as weaponry, the inner workings of intelligence and military organizations etc.
Saddam Hussein invades Kuwait whereby USA, Britain and France enter into the Gulf War to force Saddam to withdraw from Kuwait.
Character of Mike Martin was great as a military secret agent entering Iraq.
It was a very tense and thrilling read on Gulf War. Moderate military technology and well researched details created a great narrative to the book.
The story turned out to be a page turner even though there isn't a female character in the book except mentioning the British Prime Minister.
I will not give away the story but recommend this book.
Although showing its age a little, this spies & soldiers yarn set around the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait is well told in a typical Forsyth manner. No sex please we're British and the characters are as nuanced as a manila folder. However there's lashings of tanks and guns and fighting and even a... well thats the interesting bit isn't it. A good one chapter a night before bed unchallenging read.
Switched from french version which was awfully translated...Quite a good war/espionage book, although slow to start. The author is very well documented (except in some technical details, like HARM missiles homing on the infrared emitted by the ground radar stations).Recommended to all Clancy fans !
Awesome book!!I love the twists and turns in the plot.
Wow! What a book! Thought I hate it as I'm not really into wars and stuff but I was gripped from the start. Well written. Amazing book.
"A retelling of the first Gulf War, except Saddam has one atomic bomb ready to launch and the coalition destroys it just in time. Very cool book, and interesting to read during the second Gulf War."
Absolutely intriguing.
