https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92755.The_Riddle_Master_of_Hed
You see, there are really 2 unravellings going on at once: there is the reader coming to understand in bits and pieces the things that the characters already know about the rules of physics and magic that control this world, and how its history is interwoven with that.
At the same time, the characters are gradually coming to understand this great mystery involving the main character's destiny- and part of that mystery means discovering that some of the things they thought they knew about their world aren't actually true.You can see how this can get confusing.
Characters should be great by what they do.
I don't want to be told how clever and destined-for-great-things a character is- I want to be shown it without the bells and whistles.
Which isn't to say research can't be interesting.
It's just not this way full of cheap twists (amnesia!) that don't go anywhere and slow, ponderous meetings of your protypical boring caucasian male societies.
McKillip created a world of lyrically magic beauty and passionately motivated people in The Forgotten Beasts of Eld- and doesn't show any of that skill here.White men forming societies to control the dispensation of knowledge- keeping it to their own and making it mystical and unusable.
Using the land-rule, the basic structure of McKillip's world that gives the rightful ruler of a country a deep understanding of that country's needs and functioning, McKillip shows a more painful sundering from a life that the hero liked, for a journey through magic that's perilous, frustrating, and in many ways worse.McKillip also plays with history, following Tolkien's strong sense of tradition but approaching it from a different angle.
Morgon, and indeed most people of importance in the world, are adept with riddles, but riddles in this book are less something one would expect from the sphynx and more like historical fact combined with a lesson.
Na nivou zapleta, naime, The Riddle-Master of Hed ne donosi gotovo ništa osim prežvakavanja Tolkina i Džozefa Kembela (i to, prirodno, samo negde do trećine-polovine monomita jer je ovo prvi deo trilogije): znate ono, dete iz provincije otkriva da je Oruđe Sudbine i tako to?
McKillip is both an impressive storyteller and author, showing her intricate skill in this the first part of the Riddlemaster Trilogy.
Mysterious, at times chilling, and with fascinating characters, "The Riddlemaster of Hed" reminds me of Le Guin and, to some extent Tolkien, authors who I believe to be masters of fantasy literature.
At times, McKillip's mystery seems to take her herself, causing her narration to fall into something of a poetic form.
Frequently (in this form) she leaves out certain words, usually grammatical joiners such as "and," though at other times she seems to fall away from complete thoughts, adding to the mystery of her writing while unfortunately also adding a little bit of confusion.
McKillip captured me with this book immediately because I just loved the hero.
I don't particularly care for riddles, but they worked well here, as did the harps.
Yeah, hackneyed harps in a S&S world, but the two together, along with a quest & love & destinies foretold in the stars (maybe, if things worked out) all came together under McKillip's beautiful writing to create a wonderful epic story, but be prepared to read the trilogy.
You need to rad them in order & have the next one ready or you may just dissolve into a puddle of frustration.
I found it in the local used bookstore, and I liked the cover and the title, but I put off reading it because I didn't know if it would be compelling enough.
Well, I was captivated right away by McKillip's writing style and by her protagonist, Morgon.
The plot is so mysterious: who is Morgon?
There are still many unanswered riddles, and although Morgon learned in Caithnard to "beware the unanswered riddle," I don't fear diving into the second book.
I want to know what happens, and as far as I can tell, the stricture of the accumulated riddles in the first book is: "If you're interested enough to wonder, always read the second book."
Determined to learn about his destiny, Morgan, accompanied by Deth, the High One’s harpist, travels across the lands to Erlenstar Mountain to confront the High One. Along the way, Morgon’s life is threated by shape changers, powerful creatures from the sea, who don’t want him to seek the answers to his riddles.
I really like the idea of being able to change into a vest and a tree, and I love the descriptions of Morgon doing so.The Riddle-Master of Hed is an amazing book.
This first book is about Morgon, a farmer with a knack for answering riddles (a bit more like Zen koans) who was born with three stars on his head.
First, there isn't a concrete prophecy looming over each action.
Second, he is very reluctant about seeking his destiny, honestly preferring to remain the leader of a small farming community rather than going off and likely getting himself killed.
Third, he isn't an annoying brat that everybody falls over themselves to help out for no reason (I'm looking at you, Golden Compass).
Morgon of Hed rules his small kingdom.
Is Morgan going to go forward or is he going back to Hed?
I didn't care if he lived or died and that's no way to write a main character in a fantasy story!Morgon also talks too much, as do everyone else.
There is too much discussion about how things are and very little action.
Things go nowhere and after a while, I just got insanely bored.
So I am a little torn on whether to continue with the next book in the series or not.
Fourteen year old me immediately placed The Riddle Master trilogy among the classics.
I noticed that the Riddle Master trilogy was rarely included in the "must read" lists that are periodically created to educate on the classics of the fantasy/scifi/speculative fiction genre.
What I caught on this reading that I lacked the knowledge to notice on my first time through was how much Riddle Master resembles the Welsh myths of the Mabinogion.
If I ever create a "must read" fantasy genre list, The Riddle Master trilogy will be on it.
The first book is in no way a stand-alone story.
Reading a McKillip novel is often like visiting a foreign country: your guide may explain parts of the culture & language to you, but there will be much swirling around you that you do not understand and that no one will explain to you.
Personally I love that in a book.
I love to feel there is much more to the world and the story than I am being told.
If you like to have all the answers by the end of the book, McKillip may not be the fantasy writer for you.
Lovely language and delicate mythos but I just couldn't get over the riddles that weren't riddles. The wordplay was too much for me and although it is a slim book, it felt much longer because the main character kept dragging his heels and complaining through the whole book. It had a feeling a bit like Taran Wanderer (which I love) so I can see why people would love this but it wasn't for me, alas!
Good story, quite imaginative, but not compelling. It didn't pull on my heartstrings or capture my attention, even though it's an "intelligent" tale, with some engrossing scenes. I need more cross-character relationship, but this book is mainly about Morgon, The Prince of Hed, a farmer, a riddle master, the star bearer. Other characters come and go, but there's never enough relationship to satisfy me. Morgon always stays front and center. I might read the sequel.Simon Prebble is a great narrator, but he didn't add anything to this story.
Morgon never really knew what he was getting by completing the Riddle, but let's just say it becomes something much much greater than a young farm-based Prince could ever have dreamed.What I liked about this book were the hints of magic we saw.
This is definitely utilised at various points in the story to great effect, and I felt like this magic element was probably the one best described and portrayed in the book.What I had problems with were the tiring, drawn-out descriptions of travelling.
Some of the scenes within this book just felt too long for my liking and although things do happen on the way, I just never felt like I connected with or sympathised with Morgon himself.
First and most importantly, Morgon's stops along his journey were so unrelated and unconnected that I would just be getting used to the city and the character he was meeting when BAM!
Individually, the stops and people along the way were pretty cool, but Patricia ripped me away from them just as I was getting attached and before I was ready to leave.
Thus, I was detached from this novel.Second, there were not enough answers to all of these riddles about the three stars and Morgon's destiny.
I would have liked a few clues about the Star-Bearer's destiny, even if Morgon didn't have one.
Reread: June 2016So I said in my first review that it's a cliff-hanger ending and you should have the second book on hand, but I a) didn't go on to read the rest of the series back in 2012 (why?
I can't remember) and b) failed to have Heir of Sea and Fire on hand when I finished Riddle-Master this time around.
What stands out is the originality: things like riddling and Great Shouts and land-rule and Morgon's tie to the land of Hed. This does have a cliff-hanger ending, though, so make sure the second novel is on hand.
I wouldn't actually start here, with McKillip: I first fell in love with The Changeling Sea, I think, and I'd start there if I could begin with her work again.Nonetheless, it is beautifully written and a joy to read in that sense.
You might find yourself lingering over a sentence, a paragraph, because of the way it's put together.I can't help but think that Le Guin's Ged and McKillip's Morgon have a certain amount in common.
Maybe slightly more in common with Bilbo, wishing he could be back home listening to his kettle sing, and Morgon especially shares that unwillingness and the sense that the goal is not really his own.I'm not entirely sure what I think of the world-building.
For anyone who would look at this and dismiss it as stupid fantasy writing they are missing the huge parable that dies not make sense until you read the last chapter of the third book.
On one hand it is a simple fantasy story but it is rich enough for someone to see that it is a parable to all of us about how we define ourselves and what we are willing to sacrifice to keep believing in what may be shattered perceptions of who we really are.Morgan runs the gamut from naive to angry and dangerous to self sacrificing to become the ultimate weapon of good or evil...he doesnt know which.
Then MC buys a harp and goes on a ship back to visit the college he attended, so he can tell the brother of his future bride that he is the one who will marry her.In the second chapter, MC and the brother get into a fight because MC refuses to accept robes of a riddle master, and brother doesn't want MC to accept the robes of the riddle master, so brother takes off all of his clothes in protest at their apparent agreement and stomps away, presumably in only his underwear.
Then MC gets on a boat.In the third chapter, there is a storm, and MC ends up on a beach with amnesia with an albino companion and his giant cat friend.
Now, I should start with admitting I'm partial to this book.
I've read it as a kid, it was a gift from my parents (whole 3 books).
And a few of my favourite quotes hit me still today.So, let's get on with review.I liked the main character.
A guy that loves peace and quite and books (^^) but life has other ideas.I didn't like how riddles were presented.
It was just knowledge, at least seemed like it at parts.
But even after all those years it still is a refreshing concept (or at least an interesting one).I also liked other characters.
See my review of the omnibus volume. I stumbled over this book back in '77 or '78 and then had to wait till I could find the next volume. Very frustrating. A good series, I find the first volume to be the best of the 3 though I've read reviews of those who disagree.
The things Morgon of Hed didn’t know and was surprised by, however, completely failed to surprise me as most of them were pretty typical of this type of fantasy tale, although that doesn’t really reduce my estimation of the work itself (especially when one considers the fact that it was first published in 1976).The prose was exceptionally well-crafted, although now that I’ve read two of McKillip’s novels I realize that this is just how she rolls.
The cliffhanger twist ending is going to have me reading the second book in the trilogy shortly, I imagine.
Read it twice in a row! Full review on my podcast, SFBRP episode #363.
The good: Awesome idea for a fantasy setting, decent world building, the idea of riddles being involved, interesting magic, quest, mysteries, riddle college, and Celtic themes.
The bad: weak characterization, insanely boring dialogue, slow chore like pace, no real riddles, and it's just plain boring.
This book was extremely difficult to finish, I really wanted to like it.
Sadly the characterization and dialogue is insanely boring and doesn't feel real at all.
It really is an interesting idea for a fantasy series, but sadly didn't deliver.
This book didn't deliver the goods and is just plain boring.
I still feel like I need to read more before I know what I think.
(And also I feel like I needed to be hit over the head more with his destiny and why it was so important for him to pursue it.) Buuut all of that really is stuff that the rest of the trilogy can "fix," I think.Original reviewThe last of the battle books!Now--to do some judging!You can read my book battle piece here!I don't think I have much to add.
It's the first part of a story, so I need to read the rest before I entirely know what I think.
I reread this book again to see how it holds up and it definitely is still one of the best fantasy novels (and part of one of the best fantasy trilogies out there.
McKillip sets the stage for the trilogy with a spare style refreshing in this age of overblown epic fantasies.
There is just the mystery of who is the Star bearer, why does he have enemies, what is his mission.Morgan the hero is a the lord of Hed, a small island in the Land known for its peace.
I'm still waiting to find a creature in fantasy fiction depicted with as much compelling strangeness and genuine sense of the otherworldly as the shapechangers here, and I just love so many things about the world McKillip sets up (the college of Riddle-Masters!
I'd have a hard time saying that these books are actually better or worse than McKillip's other work; at this point I have no problem saying she's my favourite fantasy author, and if in some ways I like (say) Cygnet a bit more now, this is still the series I loved first.

Re-read this, first read it many, many years ago.I had forgotten how poetic this book is: in descriptions, in dialog, and just generally. There's a timelessness to the prose that quite surprised me. It was written in 1976 and yet feels like it could have been written any time in the last century.I can't recommend this book highly enough.
