https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15580.In_the_Shadow_of_the_Warlock_Lord
Hiç âdetim olmamasına rağmen önce diziye başladım. Beğeneceğime zerre ihtimal vermiyorum üstelik. Ancak bir bölüm, Elflerin dünyasına dalma isteğimi körüklemeye yetti.Bu arada, ben kitabın türünü distopya zannettiğim için gidip dizinden başladım. Burada epic-fantasy görünüyor. 🙈
A little too much like the fellowship of the ring... Which is obviously a great book, but not when a mediocre similar title like this takes too much from it.
This might deserve a better rating than 3 stars. I didn't actually finish it, because I was too distracted by how similar it is to Lord of the Rings.
3.5 stars
I read the book Sword of Shannara part 1 Shadow of the Warlock Lord by Terry Brooks.
The Sword of Shannara is fantasy because there is magic, mystical creatures, and the story takes place in a different world.
He explains to them that Shea is a descendent of an ancient Elven king and is the only remaining heir to the Sword of Shannara.
The Sword of Shannara is the only thing that can defeat the powerful Warlock lord.
Shea struggles throughout the story to find it within himself to be a descendent of an Elven king.
overall I enjoyed this book and want to continue with the series, but I felt as if a lot of it had been stolen from Lord of The Rings.
There is a fellowship (though not called such) with people way to similar in character to the fellowship in Lord of the Rings.
The greatest difference being that they are on a quest to find a sword instead of loose a ring.I also fell asleep (almost) while reading the beginning and I felt like the characters were being told stuff for the readers benefit and not their own, which is never good.
This is just the beginning of what is the best series of books with the different races of characters from montain trolls to humans.
I can truely compare my life style or what I would like my life style to be.
In the book it brings people that dont really like eachother to frinds that are as close as brothers.
Well I think that if you are ready to move on with the every day books of kids having personal problem and girls that hate the world to books where no one but a small hand full people know of and do something about what could be the end of all life then I will suggest that you try one or all of the Shannara books.
I'm doing something I have never done before, not finish a book.
I've always worked my way through pieces of writing I didn't like, in hopes that by the time I got to the end I would find something redeeming about the book.
But I am learning I have wasted too much time on bad writing.This repetitive story was laced with too many adverbs.
Plus it seemed he had just finished reading Lord of the Rings and no one should try to recreate Tolkien.I'm not giving up on the author, will look to read another series.
But if you are a writer or serious reader, you might have trouble getting through this first book.
So I am not sure what to think about the story.
There were a few things that I hated about the book, mainly, it was pretty wordy and the big blocks of text on each page.
Although it did semi pick up around page 150ish for me.
I really don't care about any of the characters so far and I don't know if it's just me but I can't stand the main characters name!
It bugs me for some reason.
I'm just not sure this is the fantasy book for me :/ Hopefully the next part gets better?
Severek okudum. Fazlasıyla Yüzük Kardeşliği'ne benzediği söylense de ben çok takılmadım bu konuya. Neticede zaten pek çok fantastikkurgu birbirine benziyor. Seçilmiş kişi, sıkı dostlar, hedef, hedefe giden bir yolculuk ve o yol üzerinde kötülerin kötüsü düşmanlar. Shannara'nın kılıcı bu anlamda çok özgün olmasa da doyurucu bence. Sadece neden üçe bölünmüş bu ilk kitap, onu anlamak mümkün değil.Bizde Shannara'nın Kılıcı I, II ve III olmak üzere 3 kitap şeklinde çıktı. Bilmiyorum tek kitap halinde olanı var mı?
having read most of the Shannara books, I wasn't all that pleased with the ending point for this first part of the Sword of Shannara. It was fun going back to a book I hadn't read since middle school, and it was a good as I remembered it, although struggling through some weak writing at a point or two. I didn't remember how often people are described by their "frames" as being wide or slender or lithe or whatever, it gets distracting.
This was a recommendation from a friends husband. It was ok I wish I loved it, but just didn't. I felt like this book was a cross between Lord of the Rings and The Princess Bride... but I have never read either of those, only watched the movies. Good plot, likable characters, really lame occasional illustrations (could have done without those) maybe just a little too out there. I will probably finish the series though, what can I say ... I like to read even when the book is mediocre.
I enjoyed the story, but not the writing so much. However I am willing to give the next installment a chance. Hopefully we will see some improvement in the writing and hopefully the story continues along as well as it has so far.
There certainly is a lot of similarities to LOTR but it still remains very original and captivating. It was also easy to read. I finished it in about 3 days (which is a record for me since I don't read a lot)
DNFing for now. I may come back to it in the future, but so far it has been a struggle to stay interested and I would really rather get to some of my other books. Not to mention, I'm reading LoTR now so the similarities are very obvious, as well as the difference in quality.
Hated it. I know that it's very popular and everyone loves it. I couldn't continue with the self-inflicted torture. I read over half, hoping that it would improve. It didn't. Full review still needs to be written. Finished 18 September 2013
if I could rate the different parts of this book, I would. the first 1/3 was so boring. like a 1 or 2 star. the last 60 pages was a 5 star. so averaging that to a 3. I will be reading the other 2 parts in the series.
I got about half way through and lost interest. Too much hyperbole, too much deus ex machina, not enough character development, too much journeying for my taste. I guess I'm just not an "epic" fantasy kind of person.
It was a great book. I read it before a long time ago and wanted to read it again, but is it only the first part of the story.
there are only dudes in this book.
I enjoyed it but it was very lord of the ringy, unfortunately I won't be buying the rest in the series x
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/11748293
Read it, and then stop. Just say NO to any additonal Shannara tales.
