https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50667.Little_Big_Man
It is a case of mistaken captivity, which I will not attempt to explain other than to note that it’s one of the cruder farcical aspects of Little Big Man. Over the course of the novel, which begins in the 1850s and ends in 1876, with Custer’s defeat, Jack will leave and return to the Cheyenne several times, though he was “a white man and never forgot it.” Berger’s treatment of the Cheyenne – through the voice of Crabb – is fascinating.
Anyone searching for life's meaning or looking for ways to better treat others need look no further than the wisdom of Old Lodge Skins:"The Human Beings believe that everything is alive: not only men and animals but also water and earth and stones and also the dead and things from them like this hair.
This is the way things are."But white men believe that everything is dead: stones, earth, animals, and people, even their own people.
In either case, may the Everywhere Spirit have mercy on his soul, and yours, and mine."- Thomas Berger, Little Big Man"The truth seems hateful to most everybody."- Thomas Berger, Little Big ManI thought I was clever when I told my wife Jack Crabb, aka Little Big Man, was the Zelig of the American West.
So, I'm not sure why as an adult it took me so long to read Berger's masterpiece Little Big Man. It was funny, irreverant, and spanned the West; incorporating Mormons, Wild Bill Hickok, Wyatt Earp, the Cheyenne and lastly Custer and Little Big Horn.
Having been captivated by Thomas Berger’s use of language, by his imagination, by his sympathetic treatment of Native Americans, specifically the Cheyenne, I finished his marvelous novel, Little Big Man, a page-turner that kept me riveted from beginning to end.
My “quick and easy” measure of a book’s excellence is based on two criteria: first, that the book haunts me for days after I finish it; and second, that I can recall details from it one year later.
By the first of these measures, Berger has brilliantly succeeded, and I suspect that I will remember much of the book a year from now.
Whatever you think about the conflict between the Plains Indians and the white man, it's hard to identify with a "hero" who is really neither red nor white in his loyalty, who consistently takes the low road and whose outlook on life is completely mean-spirited and sleazy.
Now I'm no stranger to anti-heroes.
I cheered for Alex in A CLOCKWORK ORANGE as a naive young thing and I thrilled to the murderous violence of Lamar Pye in Stephen Hunter's DIRTY WHITE BOYS, not to mention the exploits of Blue Duck (a much, much tougher version of a man caught between the red and white worlds) in Larry McMurtry's LONESOME DOVE.
The thing is, an anti-hero has to be tough.
The movie with Dustin Hoffman was very well done & follows the book fairly well, but the book captures the character even better. He's not a perfect man by any stretch of the imagination. He lives a long time & through some very interesting history. Living with the Indians & then scouting for Custer at the Little Big Horn, a fight against the same indians he lived with. There's a gritty, real feel to the entire story.
n this book, narrated by a prissy bachelor of independent means, we meet a wonderful character who, Forrestt Gump-like, takes us through the development of the American west.
(His father, a preacher of some originality, was intrigued by the liberality of the doctrine,and felt they would be excellent neighbors.) Jack was raised among the Human Beings, as the Cheyenne call themselves, but meanders through both white and Indian worlds in the course of the 24 years between his abduction in 1852 and Custer's last stand on the Little Bighorn in July of 1876, where his tale ends.
Not "like" a good friend.
You open your eyes in the morning and you remember that it is there, your friend, and you know you'll get through.
This book was a good friend.
This book was a good friend.
Maybe it was Jack Crabb's (the narrator) unique, funny, irreverent, wise, one-hundred and eleven-year-old voice that sparked the friendship and kept it going.
Or maybe it was Berger's respect for courage in its different colors, shapes and sizes that sealed our bond.
It could have been the book's touch - you know, not heavy, but substantial.
As hard as a good friend.
It took me a long time to read as I slowed down and quit every time I couldn't handle what was going on.
He lives an Indian life but never forgets he is white.
He is adopted by a white couple, eventually leaves them, marries a Swedish woman and they have a child.
Things being what they are, life turns and his life is thrown into chaos when his business partners cheat him and his wife and child are carried off by Indians.
Eventually, through various life circumstances, he rejoins the Cheyenne and marries again, has another child.
It is like a lost Mark Twain novel, in many respects surpassing most of Twain's own novels other than Huck Finn and Puddn'head Wilson.
Jack Crabb is a quintessential American Everyman...literally, as he lives alternately in the white world as well as the Indians'.
He can literally see multiple points of view from a vantage point that few, if any, could ever acquire.
This is the tall tale to tower over all other tall tales, one of the ultimate American epics.
Ironically, this novel, like Jack Crabb himself, seems to be inexplicably neglected in any discussion of major American novels, of which select company this certainly belongs.
Thomas Berger seems to be one of those necessary Americans whose death (when it finally happens; the man is nearing 90) inevitably diminishes our national life.
He's cut from the same cloth as Twain and Ambrose Bierce, and bears some stylistic resemblance, perhaps, to Peter De Vries.
My experience of Berger’s work is so far limited to his 1971 novel Vital Parts, his hilarious personal letters to Zulfikar Ghose, and now Little Big Man. The book is clearly Berger’s attempt at the Great American Novel.
Occasionally it is profound – but Berger is smart enough to spice his profundities with comic relief.
This is not "the very best novel every about American west" as the NYT claimed (years after they first panned it), but it did pave the way for some contenders like True Grit by Charles Portis, Lonesome Dove by McMurtry or take your pick from Cormac McCarthy's work (I'm partial to Blood Meridian, The Crossing and No Country for Old Men).
Recommended (but read some McMurtry, McCarthy, Portis or Elmore Leonard first, not necessarily in that order).Maybe my favorite quotation from the book (though there were many contenders): "I wasn't long in discovering it is a rare person in the white world who wants to hear what the other fella says.
It is genuinely one of the ways I know how much I liked or even loved a book.
So the decision was made and “Little Big Man” was added to my reading list.The book starts with an Introduction and a forward.
After the forward, the book transitions to Jack, aka “Little Big Man”, recollecting his adventures through the 25 years of the settling of the Old American West.
If you are looking for a story of the Old American West or a book you just can’t put down, I would highly recommend “Little Big Man”.
Jack, whose Cheyenne name translates to Little Big Man, is caught between the two cultures--more than I think he even admits to in old age.
Part of that was a matter of differences in style, and because in this book a wry, ironic dark sense of humor was to the forefront--but the biggest reason is Jack, who manages to capture my sympathies--despite the fact he's by no means heroic--is something of a scoundrel--but a survivor and someone who does care about the family he makes along the way.
I approached Little Big Man from a novel direction (forgive the pun): I'd seen the movie before reading the book.
Berger's style in Little Big Man is very reminiscent of Twain's (somewhat modernized of course).
The adventures of Jack Crabb, a boy adopted by a Cheyenne family who never manages to be all white or all Indian, makes for very funny reading.I find myself wondering if I should compare the book to the movie.
Perhaps, in time, the novel of Little Big Man will be as much a favorite of mine as the movie is.
Little Big Man is the story of Jack Crabb, a white man captured (sort of) and raised by the Cheyenne into his teen years.
It also includes Jack's recounting of many other events in his life, including his being present at the Battle of Little Bighorn and having friends like Bat Masterson and Wild Bill Hickok.Jack's stories are wonderfully funny, even of the laugh-out-loud variety at times.
The great achievement in the book, though, is that Jack gives us an Indian people who are from tragic figures, but rather proudly maintain their honor and sense of self in the face of the obliteration of their way of life.The novel is brilliantly funny and wonderfully sad.

I believe this is my favorite book of all time.
I like Dustin Hoffmann, but the movie doesn't cut it.
For Native Americans in the movies, I'll take 'Black Robe." How many people will admit that a novel changed his or her life?
I switched from an English major to an Anthropology major.
Jack Crabb is Forest Gump tuned-in, yet clueless, drunk, dirty, cussing, obnoxious, lovable and tragic.
There may even be more insights into American History in this book than you'll find in some academic textbooks.
picked up a PhD, a job and tenure in Anthropology.
Thanks, Jack.
I will read this book again, for many reasons: 1) it is quintessentially western American, in an honest and heartrending and funny way, 2) I kind of love Jack Crabb/Little Big Man for being so honest, funny, and scarily insightful, 3) I was blown away by how both white and Indian cultures were portrayed so honestly, with the difficulties inherent to both, and 4) it was an amazingly good, powerful, fun story of a pivotal time in history.
The more I think about this book, esp.
Little Big Man's strange duality as he wavered between both worlds, the more I am amazed.

Always good to read a "Great American Novel" that actually is great.A sweeping story of the birth of one nation and the death of another.
Completely convincing in its depiction of American Indians, both on the surface and how their way of looking at the world differed so greatly from our own.
But on top of that, highly readable, no literary flourishes to describe the landscape, a very authentic dialect created without phonetic spellings (thank God) and also quite funny in places with a cast of mean, selfish, deceitful characters.
I'd call it a satire if it wasn't all obviously true.
I don't always want to crawl inside the book I am reading but Thomas Berger has created a character I would truly like to meet in Old Lodge Skins.
Did I read an abridged copy or something the first time through?The second thing I noticed is that I seem no longer capable of enjoying a "captivity narrative" like this.
y'know, all that stuff that we as Americans said no longer existed in our culture and then in recent years have seen explode in an unforseen and ugly backlash against "PC Culture." So, is it a good thing for a white author to write a white character into a non-white culture for the purposes of prompting discussion and revealing some unvarnished truths via a "Mary Sue" character?
I AM A WHITE MAN and never forgot it, but I was brought up by the Cheyenne Indians from the age of ten.What a great first line.I read Little Big Man before, so long ago I can't remember if it was 15 or 30 years past, so although I had forgotten much of it I knew what I was getting into.
I wasn’t long in discovering that it is a rare person in the white world who wants to hear what the other fellow says, all the more so when the other fellow really knows what he is talking about.Berger, Thomas (2011-04-27).
But the primary reader, Scott Sowers, makes a spellbinding narrator, so much so that I've requested an interlibrary loan of Berger's much-later sequel, The Return of Little Big Man, on disc.
Berger achieves a narrative voice that's unique, and sustains it for hundreds of pages.
(Counting a prologue and an epilogue told by the protagonist's supremely supercilious interviewer, he invents two distinctive voices.) Jack is an invention that rolls up countless fragments from the diaries and firsthand accountings of America at the dawn of its second century, and he feels both historically accurate and tactically ahistorical.
His novel, "Little Big Man," was both an excellent novel and movie starring Dustin Hoffman.In the story, we read the reminiscences of Jack Crabb, plainsman who dictated the story when he was age one hundred and eleven.Jack Crabb was captured by Cheyenne Indians and raised by them after they massacre the members of Jack's family's wagon train.
He is the narrator who stands apart when Indians are being massacred by Union Cavalry, when the Civil War occurs and in great detail, the Battle of Little Bighorn where Gen. George Armstrong Custer met his end.Jack returns to white people after a battle between soldiers and the Cheyenne.
In his old age, Jack Crabb tells his story of the old West.
At age ten, his family’s wagon train is attacked by Cheyenne Indians and Jack is captured and raised through his early teens as a Cheyenne.
The story continues through his young adulthood, staying in the wild West and with Jack’s having time with both the Cheyenne and white people.
The primary Indian character, Old Lodge Skins, is apparently fictional.
It didn’t seem to be either, but more, a clever vehicle to elaborate the quirks and ways of the old West.
For old West stories, go to McMurtry’s Lonesome Dove group or for Western satire to his Sin Killer series.
Interestingly, the authors of both respective works, Thomas Berger for Little Big Man, and Nelle Harper Lee for To Kill a Mockingbird, only wrote and published one book each.
The characters, although seemingly fantastic in act and deed, even almost surreal at times, are given a depth and dimension by Berger that makes the details of their lives downright believable.Especially touching is Mr. Berger's depiction of Native Americans, and most especially the Cheyenne people.Set as a historical western, retold by 111-year-old Jack Crabb, the only surviving white man at Custer's Last Stand, we follow the exploits from being captured and raised by the Cheyenne until his eventual ride with George Armstrong Custer at Little Big Horn.Published in 1964, I read it when I was 18.
After reading Little Big Man, this book became the standard by which all novels in the western genre, for me, would be measured.
An American epic novel—a monumental creation deserving, I believe, to sit alongside Moby Dick and Adventures of Huckleberry Finn in the American literary canon—Little Big Man brings to life the often times brutal intersection of American Indian tribes with pioneers and settlers invading the West.
Told engagingly from the points of view of both via 110-year-old narrator Jack Crabb, who had been abducted by Cheyenne as a youth and moved back and forth between the tribal and settler cultures, it steeps the reader in the brief yet pivotal period when Anglos commandeered Indian lands in Wyoming and the Dakotas.
I first read this novel about 30 years ago, shortly after seeing the movie with Dustin Hoffman, and it is still wonderful.
Re-reading this I was impressed by how much historically accurate information the author was able to include in this romp through the Wild Wild West.
(Some of which the “white establishment” anthropologists and scientists have only recently begun to accept) The only thing wrong with this book is its concentration on the Battle of Little Bighorn, the description of which takes up the last 15 – 20% of the book.
I would have much rather had the battle summed up and gone on to Jack’s later exploits.
