https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/294963.Rurouni_Kenshin_Volume_01
In fact, Kenshin seems to be what your traditional rock-headed fight-loving shonen protagonist might become after the end of a series; he's had his share of battles and just wants to sit back and enjoy life.
But his old reputation still causes Kenshin a great deal of trouble, as he is forced to defend his newfound friends from villains great and small.What makes Rurouni Kenshin an uncommonly great shonen manga is Nobohiro Watsuki's refusal to adhere to most of the conventions of the genre.
Qué lindo fue volver a disfrutar esta historia <3Rurouni Kenshin (o Samurai X, como lo tradujeron en América Latina) es uno de mis anime favoritos y desde hace tiempo tenía pendiente leer el manga.Me encanta el sentido del humor de los personajes y también la cantidad de datos interesantes respecto a la era Meiji El manga tiene algunas diferencias con la serie (la más notoria es la violencia y otros temas fuertes que fueron censurados), pero en general este volumen es prácticamente un calco de los primeros episodios.
Destaco que Yahiko es mucho más interesante que en el anime y la historia de Sanosuke es mucho más fuerte y triste.
My dad and I used to watch this together when I was six. I still didn't watch the whole anime and read the manga but I love it so, five well deserved stars.
I can see this is a series that a lot of people will really, really like. I am not one of those people. Too much action, too little plot, maybe? It sort of reminds me of Ranma  with a lot less slapstick. The art style is similar, which is probably why I'm comparing the two in the first place. There's nothing in the book that I can really criticize, it just isn't for me.
I can see this is a series that a lot of people will really, really like. I am not one of those people. Too much action, too little plot, maybe? It sort of reminds me of Ranma ½ with a lot less slapstick. The art style is similar, which is probably why I'm comparing the two in the first place. There's nothing in the book that I can really criticize, it just isn't for me.
I didn't always understand the battles but I didn't mind the frames with people. The start was good but it gets a little boring. A cute story overall but needs to get more interesting fast.BOTTOM LINE: An older manga I could actually understand.
Amazing, I really loved the manga setting. In the Meiji era, Kenshi is a wanderer without a destination in a country that is starting to change and he is trying to figure out how to fit in. This a a very dear story to many manga lovers and I can see why. On to the next volume!
Amaba ver el anime pero nunca se me había ocurrido leer el manga…y ahora que lo he leído ha sido lo mejor del mundo, he recordado muy buenos tiempos y he disfrutado enormemente de esta lectura.Este primer tomo es bastante similar al anime, me alegro de no tenerlo tan fresco en la memoria puesto que puedo regocijarme leyéndolo.Es una introducción de los que serán los personajes principales de esta historia y la trama que se desarrolla para que se vayan conociendo tiene un muy buen ritmo, es interesante, llena de acción y emoción.Está más que claro que Kenshin y Kaoru es de esas parejas que apenas las conoces sabes y quieres que estén juntos por siempre, su primer encuentro es memorable.Sin duda Kenshin en su faceta de vagabundo muestra su personalidad amable, atenta, servicial y en apariencia despistada, lleno de carisma, la manera en como esta dibujado refuerza mucho todas estas cualidades.
This isn't a re-reading, since my first exposure to the story is through the aforementioned translated anime, and the subsequent trilogy of live action films.The first chapters collected in this volume brought the core cast of character together for the first time.
Their first adventure together brought them together a couple of hoodlums who seek to capitalize on the name Battousai, which Kenshin's former alias, and a reminder of his dark and bloody past.Sanosuke the street fighter and Yahiko the orphaned son of a samurai are also introduced in this volume, rounding out our core cast.
June 17, 2017 Edit:I just watched the absolutely beautiful first movie of the movie trilogy adaptation and that made me want to finally finish this series once and for all so I'm re-reading all the volumes I've read before and continuing with it for that purpose.
At the moment I think the movie is better than the manga (*gasp*) and I highly recommend it for anyone who likes this manga and anime.
It's visually stunning and the plot is a mismatch of a few of the manga arcs woven together pretty wonderfully!
lol)OriginalI need to continue on with this manga series eventually.
I liked this volume, but I just wasn't captured enough by the plot to go past volume five or so.
None of the main characters are annoying for me.
I also like how the other characters keep making fun of Kenshin and how the antagonist always underestimate his power and his will to protect those he love.
Most of all I want to mention that I like the manga way better than the anime.
The manga has a light feeling about it, but they made the anime feels so dark and the story line change a bit too much for me accept.
Besides Kenshin's voice in the anime in Japanese version annoys me, while Battosai voice in English dubbed irked me too.
Wow! I really liked this book! It's way better than the anime, it let me get a deeper look into just how sweet of a person Kenshin is! I would definitely reccommend this series to any anime/manga lover.
Cerita cukup seru pas kemunculan Saito dan Shishio, tapi setelah itu cukup membosankan, terutama arc terakhir.. rasanya pengen ngelempar meja ke adik Tomoe ٩(╬ʘ益ʘ╬)۶Lalu skill tokohnya diluar kemampuan manusia, padahal settingnya dunia nyata, sejarah lagi. Dibeberapa adegan, skill tokohnya ga bisa diproses di otakku ><Lain ceritanya kalo aku baca komiknya pas kecil, mungkin aku masih bisa terpukau ^^;)>Lalu endingnya, ga setuju Kenshin sama Kaoru, lebih suka sama Tomoe ><
Me encantaba el animé, esa época rural japonesa, las katanas, como siempre, adoradora de los kimonos🎎. KaoruxKenshin shippeables en FF.net
Enjoying the action and the historical aspect of it.
Το Manga είναι κλάσεις ανώτερο και πραγματικά η μεταφορά του στην οθόνη το μειώνει πάρα πολύ.Θα αρχίσω με το σχέδιο του Watsuki που είναι τόσο προσεγμένο και με καθαρές γραμμές ακόμα και στη μάχη, και πραγματικά, οι σκηνές μάχης είναι τόσο καθαρές και ζωντανές που νομίζεις ότι πραγματικά καταφέρνεις να δεις την κίνηση στα καρέ.
Ο mangaka έριξε πάρα πολύ μελέτη και διάβασμα για να καταφέρει αν μεταφέρει ιστορικά στοιχεία στην δική του ιστορία, και πραγματικά μπράβο του.Δυστυχώς η κρίση και οι μπρατσομένοι με τα βρακιά πάνω από το παντελόνι υπερήρωες φάγανε τον περιπλανώμενο σαμουράι (Ρόνιν), και μαζί με αυτόν την αξιόλογη προσπάθεια που ξεκίνησε η anubis φέρνοντας στο εδώ κοινό πραγματικά αξιόλογους manga τίτλους.
Προσωπικά το σχέδιο στην αρχή δεν μου έκανε αίσθηση, αλλά όπως εξελισσόταν η ιστορία έτσι και αυτό καλυτέρευσε, ειδικά σε σκηνές μαχών που οι λεπτομέρειες πολλές φορές σώζουν ένα κατα τα άλλα χαμένο καρέ.
Η υπόθεση είναι η κλασσική και πολυφορεμένη "αντι-ήρωας πρώην κακός μετανιώνει,κάνει το καλό και το ρίχνει στο γιαλό" αλλά ο ρομαντισμός του που είναι πολύ καλά δουλεμένος και έξυπνα τοποθετημένος τόσο στους διαλόγους όσο και σε εικαστικά σημεία μέσα στο σχέδιο έτσι ώστε να μην ασχολήσε και τόσο με την γνωστή και,βαρετή για κάποιους, σεναριακή συνταγή.
Had no idea what to expect with this but I enjoyed it a lot.
I had no idea there was a lot of comedy elements in it.
I thought it was just a standard samurai affair, but the comedy was a welcome surprise, and one that I did not expect to enjoy once I came across it as Japan humour can be a bit too strange for my liking at times.
This manga has a good mix of action and humour.
It has your super-strong, impossible-to-kill protagonist, but it's played differently than in most manga.
Anyways, some good manga was recommended to me and I tried it.Rurouni Kenshin: Meiji Swordsman Romantic Story: Vol. 1, or plain-old Rurouni Kenshin: Vol. 1 for short, is a manga about a wandering swordsman named Himura Kenshin, who rescues a young girl from a fight with a hulking killer who claims to be the legendary “Battousai”, the deadliest of a group of assassins (known as the Hitokiri) who fought during the recent war inaugurating the Meiji era in Japan.The girl, a young heir to the dojo of her father, who was slain in the recent war, is named Kamiya Kaoru.
I ship Kenshoru♥
good introduction into the series. excited for more
It was pretty good better than some I've read.
You have an entire map of emotions and experiences you'll get to enjoy----and it all starts with a wandering, former samurai and assassin named Kenshin.He's based off of a real man who fought to bring revolution, and in this story, he ceased fighting for an unknown reason, before reappearing nearly a decade later, after his name had become legend, only to step into the lives of average people trying to find their way in this era stuck between the way of the samurai and the new government that is continuously being abused by men with power and cunning, able to use the confusion to their advantage.
The Manga has significant problems in structure and artwork that prevented me from really enjoying it.First the structure.
There were some really nice pieces of art here, but my confusion over who was saying what and what was going on prevented me from enjoying it.That said, there is one saving grace: the characters.
She's a nice subversion of the typical badass action girl that a lot of Japanese stuff stars.)So, I was going to make my closing paragraph about how I can't recommend this to fans of Manga, but I quickly realized that I don't really have that authority.
Thanks Jenna for recommending me this series!I learned about the Meiji period in my Asian Studies class back in the day, but it's books like Rurouni Kenshin that really gauge my interest in history.
Though Rurouni Kenshin employs a lot of the common tropes we typically see in manga/anime - characters with a Dark and Troubled Past, Badass Adorable, the list goes on - but since Rurouni Kenshin is the first manga I've read in a lonnnnngggg time, it was fun and nostalgic.
I have a feeling Kenshin is one of those 'onion-layered' characters who will probably remain enigma until we learn more about him.
Vol. 1 specifically tells the story of Kenshin coming to roost with Kaoru, the instructor of a sword-style on the verge of extinction, and the motly crew they pick up together.(An aside: My SO is a fan of the Rurouni Kenshin anime, and while picking up  Hawkeye, Vol. 1: My Life as a Weapon, we discovered the local comic store also has the Rurouni Kenshin manga.
And I like that tension, that attempt to understand self and perhaps divert the course of one's nature--is it possible to change the world, truly?
And if it is not, is it possible to change yourself?
Kenshin will always have a special place in my heart.
While this is true for most adaptations, for some reason reading this after seeing it just feels right.Although I can't wait to find out what happens after the tv series left off (why oh why did they not make it all?), I am going to read this at my leisure, and really enjoy the ride.
Saying that, though, I shot through the first volume in one sitting, so I may not be able to help myself!Time spent with Kenshin et al is time well spent indeed.
Japanese manga can be a bit of a challenge to read; not only do you have to read from right to left, but it helps to understand some of the culture.
I found this to be a bit choppy, but that seems to be typical of anime and manga; the emphasis is on action, with character development progressing through the series of books.It was a fun, amusing read.
As stated before, I thought it was choppy and would have liked to have seen more character development.
The manga style is very expressive, ranging from sheer beauty to nearly shtick comedy on the same page.
With his bloodstained blade, Hitokiri Battosai helped close the turbulent Bakumatsu period and end the reign of the shoguns, slashing open the way toward the progressive Meiji Era. Then he vanished, and with the flow of years became legend.In the 11th year of Meiji, in the middle of Tokyo, the tale begins.
Himura Kenshin, a humble rurouni, or wandering swordsman, comes to the aid of Kamiya Kaoru, a young woman struggling to defend her father's school of swordsmanship against attacks by the infamous Hitokiri Battosai.
But neither Kenshin nor Battosai are quite what they seem...
Like Inuyasha.So far, I am not hooked, but I liked it since lately I love to read and watch anything Japanese historical.
The era in this manga is the same as in the dorama JIN, same setting, same political issues, samurais.Kenshin is too nice and girlie looking to love him from the very beginning.
I liked him more in the first chapter where all he said was "my pardons".
I also like that he is not a teenager (he is 28!).
Some times I thought I was reading it incorrectly, and it was supposed to be from left to right.
I'm not going to put all the Kenshin volumes I've read, but suffice to say I'm owning them as they come out. Kenshin was one of my first anime series and the Rurouni was one of my first anime loves. Hahaha. Rather touching story of a wandering samurai with a violent past and a demon deep inside, who is trying to repent for his mistakes while ghosts from past return to haunt him. Way cool sword fighting abound. Classic.
