https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2515230.Mazli
So I read it because I loved the real Heidi, and had read Cornelli (I think), and because it was my mother's book.Johanna Spyri ALWAYS wraps up all the problems, ALWAYS pulls a Lost Childhood Friend out of the mystery, and ALWAYS preaches a good sermon.
And children are always the heroes.This, her third book to come out in English, is no different, except that there are a zillion children, each with his of her own problem and sterling character quality.
However, for the first time, I recognized that whoever translated this book was fairly inept at turning good German into good English.
Johanna Spyri knew how to make a fairly easy going story where each character is considered thoroughly.
This book has many characters and Mazli is the youngest, but more goes on with her eldest brother, her mother and the neighbours.
She has a large family and there are often tales of a nearby castle, once inhabited by old friends of the mother and uncle.
Of course, as with many of Spyri's stories, there are struggles and an awkward amount of suffering to the undeserved, made well in the end, thankfully.
This book has a mere nine chapters: but the SIZE of the chapters!
Swiss author Johanna Spyri knew how to put together a happy ending, and Mazli: A Story of the Swiss Valleys is absolutely celebratory.
Spyri introduces and deepens our understanding of more than eight children and multiple adults in a gradual way that gives the community a rich history.Small, kindhearted Mazli is the youngest of five siblings and is the darling of the neighborhood.
He knew best how much they were in need of His loving care." Johanna Spyri was my favorite author when I was a child, and it felt good to return to my literary roots and become reacquainted with her as an adult.
Just wanted to give a head's up: From the beginning displayed on the first page "Maxa's Children" is basically another title for a book called Mazli (or Maezli) which is already in public domain and can be downloaded for free on Gutenberg.org (or an audio version at librivox.org). Having read the book, I'd say this title makes more sense but this edition came out later so it's not downloadable yet.
Copyright 1921, so a bit old fashioned, but timeless story of children who have no home and in the end are taken in by their long lost uncle. The uncle lives in a huge castle and the children will never want for anything again.
This book is just fun and sweet. A beautiful example of right and wrong and Mother's love. Its not earth shaking but cute.
A wonderful children's story!! Very easy to read.
Some reviewer's have ranked Maezli above Heidi as there are more characters in this story. The story has a mysterious castle in which 'orphaned' children find their home while being nursed to health from sickness by a loving family. But somehow I'm biased towards Heidi. Focusing on a single child in the story somehow makes me connect with Heidi more closely than the children in Maezli (she is not the orphan without a home).
A version is available on LibriVox.
