https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23614046-mr-pudgins

This is one of those books that I think everyone who reads it once remembers it forever, and wishes they had a copy! Mr. Pudgins is a magical babysitter, and the real magic here is the interesting things he is able to make happen. I loved the idea of the taps in the house running soda instead of water, and of the magical Christmas ornaments. It's hard to capture this one in words, but it's a, well, magical book.
I'm not going to Give a date for this book because our teacher read this to us in grade school and then later I read it for myself over and over and each time Mr. Pudgins made laugh until i cried I never tire of this book!!! this is a must for for children and adults who need a laugh!!!I recommend this book wholeheartedly!!!
I read this as a child, a teenager and an adult. OK, so he is kind of "a male Mary Poppins" as my therapist said when I raved about this book. But it truly is funny and like other books in the genre, there is magic mixed with realism as only an adult who has kids and also can write can produce.
My dad picked this up at a yard sale for me one time, and it was my favorite book for years. Unfortunately, I sold it in a yard sale years ago, and it took me years to track down the name again. It's also worth too much money for it to be likely I'll get another copy. I do still wish I had soda faucets, though.
One of best books for young children.Loved it as my big sister read to me when I was little. Loving it now as I read it to my daughter.
This was one of my favorite books from childhood. I still remember when Mr. Pudgins adapted each of the faucets in the house to gush out different flavors of soda pop.
Delightful!
My favorite children's book. Nothing will beat it, ever.
My 4th-grade student teacher read this to us and I loved it. We acted out the soda-from-the-faucets story in class. I'd love to revisit this book again, but it's out of print...hmmm...
Each time Mr. Pudgins came to stay with the kids he had his pipe that had magic and they always got an adventure.
There were some funny parts in the book.
But, at Christmas time when he came and he blew special balls from his pipe with pictures of each adventure they had to decorate the Christmas tree.
The kids were sad he had to go because they had lots of adventures but he left them a special silver ball with a picture of him inside it on top of their Christmas tree that they could keep and he could always see if they needed him again.
If you liked the Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle books, I think you would like this one.
It's like from the 1950s or "way back when" and the parents had all these outings they couldn't bring the three kiddos on, so they needed a baby-sitter.
Enter Mr. Pudgins, a plump, old man who smokes a pipe (back then they all did, right?) and the magical adventures that seem to happen every time he watches the children.
I like this kind of everyday magic, and sometimes there's a lesson, sometimes there's not.
I bet the author had a ton of fun thinking up all these silly escapades.
*Oh my goodness - I loved this book. I must have missed this in my growing up years - but ran across a copy and it looked so cute I picked it up. Reminds me of a male version of Mary Poppins - but this book is better. I will be reading this to my kids - I can’t wait to read it again!! And I to want soda faucets!!
"There is only one thing wrong with this book.."My 11 year-old said. "It needed more chapters since it was so good" . My 8 year-old added "It was so awesome that I wish it was longer". My 4 year-old liked how Mr. Pudgins floated in the air and my 6 year-old loved that the kids always had fun with Mr. Pudgins around!
Have you ever dreamed of taking a bath in grape soda? Mr. Pudgins is just the babysitter to make that happen. You never know what will happen when Mr. Pudgins is around. The male version of Mary Poppins for sure. A family classic!
This is one of my most favorite childhood books. Lots of wonderful, magical and glorious things happened when Mr Pudgins was around. He was an unusual babysitter that you didn't mind having because you knew an adventure was right around the corner.
It was great! I read it about a bijillion times. My all-time favorite book. Hilarious and smart, good natured Mr. Pudgins and the kids, John, Jane, and Pete have all sorts of fun. From Wizzle birds to a talking donkey, Mr. Pudgins is just plain good, all the way through.
I bought his book as a child in the 70's from a Scholastic-type book fair. I read it to pieces. Magical fun!
This was one of my favorite books as a child. I was thrilled when I found out that it was reprinted. It was just as delightful as I remembered!
Natsukashii na~
I liked it.
All I had really remembered was that it was kind of Mary Poppins-ish, and that I had enjoyed it.Reading it now, as an adult, I notice that while good, it's written to a younger age than I had remembered.
Lots of good imagination on display, weird adventures that are just the sort of thing that would appeal to a young child.
No real danger or threatening tension, but a lot of good "what will happen next" tension.
"Oh, no, our mirror twins have run off!
What will we do!" "All the pipes are running with soda instead of water!
This was my favorite book growing up.
I recently found my old copy in my parents basement and finally have it at home again.
Mr. Pudgins is a babysitter and when he puffs on his magic pipe wonderful things happens (this all sounds rather suspect to now that I'm an adult but trust me, as a child it was great.) My favorite chapter was when the family was having plumbing problems and Mr. Pudgins made pop pour from the faucets instead of water.
Long out of print but if you are luck enough to be able to find a copy buy it immediately.
Mr. Pudgins was one of my favorite books from childhood, and I always wanted a babysitter like the one John, Pete, and Janey had.
I don't know which chapter is my favorite.
The mirror children would be fun but so would flying in a bathtub.
And of course that goofy dodo bird is memorable, too.
I had read this book to a class years ago, and they loved it.
I guess that proves the ageless and timelessness of Mr. Pudgins.I also love the illustrations in this book.
This seems to be one of those things that has disappeared from modern literature.
I would class this book with things like Ruth Chew's fantasies and, possibly, the Mrs Piggle-Wiggle books.
This one has a similar sense of humor and playfulness as those do.
I think (I'm far from a skilled judge at such things) that this is a step or three harder to read than most of Chew's books, but that may just be me looking at the relatives lengths of the books.It's been quite a while since I read this, so I really can't judge how well it has aged in terms of things like gender roles.
Nothing can be more fun than to spend the summer being watched by a man who makes bathtubs fly, soda pop come out of the faucets, and removes the steering wheel, while in motion, so the children can drive while sitting on the passenger side of the car. Mr. Pudgins, along with Anabelle and Dodo, entertain the reader and Janey, John and Pete from the first page. Delightfully told, Mr. Pudgins is one of the best children's books I remember being read to as a child and one I will definitely read to my children.
This is a perfect book for kids who like Mary Poppins or Miss Picket. Instead of being a governess with an umbrella or a babysitter with black-rimmed glasses, Mr Pudgins is a babysitter who smokes a pipe. Each chapter is a stand-alone adventure, so the book is good for a night time read aloud. At the end of the book (after 12 chapters), it's fun to choose the adventure that appeals to the kids the most.
I had two favorite books that my mom read to me as a child. This was one of them. They also happened to be childhood favorites of hers. While times have changed dramatically, this book still holds up as a charming "Mary Poppins" of sorts. I love it (and my other favorite) so much that I found and bought copies of them both. They have a place of honor in my nightstand bookshelf, where only my most treasured stories are kept.
I read this when I was a kid and had forgotten about it. I was reminded of the book the other day when I was reading an article about popular children's books from the 1960s and '70s. Based on the happiness I recall this book bringing me all those years ago, I'm giving it 5 stars. Besides, just look at the cover. Who can't love a man smoking a pipe and flying in a bathtub with a bunch of gleeful kids?
I have recently revisited this favorite from my childhood with my grandchildren. They were just as enthralled as I had been by Mr. Pudgins and the adventures that happened with the three children whenever he smoked his pipe. Hopefully, they will remember into childhood the faucets that began to spew different kinds of pop instead of water and the mirror children who stepped out to play or one of the many fun events in Mr. Pudgins.
