https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78783.A_Child_s_History_of_the_World
Even though it is written at about a fourth grade level, I'll always keep it on my history bookshelf because Hillyer has a wonderful grasp of the big picture of world history and is able to streamline the telling in clear, understandable language.
I still reach for the book when I want to grasp the main idea of a period in history.
We read Hillyer's chapter on WWI and it summed up the situation perfectly, fixing the main players and conflicts firmly in mind.
The book was written in 1924 and has undergone several revisions.
Update 11/09/08I finished this book some time ago and I still love it, though I'll need to re-read it so I can remember things.
As with any overview, the book decribes many events, and moves rather quickly, so by the time you finish one section, you're already 500 years later.
I recommend taking notes while reading along, and I think it would make a great read aloud for homeschoolers .I bought the first version of this book (I think 1911) on line and I LOVE IT.
I highly recommend this book for all of you who day dreamed during history class and feel ignorant of past events.
It not only tells world history in a nice storybook style, it also explains history concepts that students need to know.
Because it was written in 1924, children these days may not have run into as many of these situations, but the questions and pauses in the middle of stories are still perfect for them.When I recently asked my son what I could do to help him learn something he wanted to learn, he asked me to read more history again.
Specifically, he wanted me to read more of this book and more of This Country of Ours.
I've heard some say they think this book "talks down" to children. I respectfully disagree! I found the tone gentle and "grandfatherly" and I LOVED this book!! Absolutely brings history to life!!
A beautiful history book for young children, and just the thing for parents to use. They still have it on the curriculum at Calvert School in Baltimore I believe...
This was a pretty easy and pleasant read, but dang was it long! After a month of coming back to it bit by bit I finally finished it. I ADORE this book. This would make an awesome bed time read aloud to elementary school kids who like history (or just a good and witty story!). As an adult, I enjoyed getting the broad history of the entire world from beginning to finish in relaxed, unassuming, whimsical writing. What a fun read it was. Will read again someday and would use with children/students in the future. 5 stars! :)
What can I say? One of my oldest homeschooling friends! Finished it today for the umpteenth time.
As the author says in the preface, his purpose is not to go into detail about events and people; often famous people, places, or events are simply mentioned, with a sentence or two to tell why they are important, and then the narrative sweeps on.
I wouldn't let my children read it themselves, not if they were very young, because the author's simple, matter-of-fact language makes it too easy for a child to simply swallow everything he says as truth, when some of it is opinion masquerading as fact.
We spent the last 18 months going through this book in little bites during our Morning Time and I absolutely loved it. It opened up great conversation and it helped my boys become a little more interested in history.
We used this for the ancient world and are still using it for the middle ages.
Much more engaging than The Story of the World.
I use those chapters pertaining to a certain geographical area (we study history by continent).
I think this is a great read-aloud for the elementary years, but by middle school they could read it on their own.
This is a very general overview of history and by the later years they really should be digging deeper than this book (although this would make a good review).
As of February 2009 we're shelving this book to focus on American history.
My kids and I have really enjoyed this history book.
It takes you from the creation to modern history.
This book creates the perfect forum for parents to discuss world history with their kids.
Each chapter is short, and it always grabs their attention from the get-go.
It takes the tone of a friendly grandpa telling a story to a kid on his knee.
My kids aged 6 to 11 all equally enjoy it.
They beg me for "Just one more chapter!
PLEEEEASE!" This book is an essential part of our homeschool curriculum, and I feel an essential one to my library.
We have the 1924 version, and it's the same one I read as a kid and am now reading aloud to my daughters. It holds their interest and they actually remember what we've read afterwards. My husband is one of those people who remembers every bit of random knowledge or trivia he's ever heard and is very adept at history, but even he was learning things from hearing me read aloud from this book. Make's history fun and charming and very basic.
The original publish date was 1924. If you can get past this author's racism - this is a surprisingly entertaining book! He thoroughly and whimsically covers just that - the history of the world - at such a level that children of almost all ages can enjoy! I recommend it as a read-aloud for children 6-12 years old, or for an independent read for 10 and up.
The conversational style of this book draws in children when you read it aloud; it covers world history from prehistory to the present. Written originally in 1924, the book has been revised several times, but keeps its old-time charm. I would not depend on this book for an inclusive history of the world, but it is an inviting introduction to the subject for children.
I absolutely *loved* this book as a child, and read it over and over again. It's so well-written and would be a fascinating read-aloud. I think it came with the Sonlight curriculum, if I'm not mistaken.
I read this book over and over when I was a child. I can easily say this book taught me more than any other book I have ever read, and that I love this book the way a child loves a puppy.
A great narrative overview of history. I learned as much as my daughter as we were reading it for her history book in school.
Mostly good with a little bit of a mixed bag in the religion department.
While many of the negative reviews on Amazon complain that it is a Christian perspective, Hillyer begins this history with the Big Bang Theory of origins followed by the biological theory of macro-evolution (I guess from a theistic-evolution standpoint?).
Along with that, he mentioned nothing about the terrible things Mohammad, the founder of Islam, taught and did; but he only painted him in a positive, peace-making light.However, on a high-level view, the book truly was a great read and helps give a terrific framework for the "history of the world" in a conversational style.
I enjoyed the tone of the author thru-out.
It felt easy to relay to very young listeners and covered enough factual information without over burdening their attention spans.
However, this is marketed to be more in line with conservative view points and it starts off with the first three chapters being written with a decidedly progressive theology.
Then it continues from there with factual errors thru-out.
There are books we read specifically to get a very well rounded view of the what the world has to offer.
But this was to be a spine book...
We didn’t end up using this much, but only because we had enough history to be getting along with, in The Story of the World. The few chapters that we read in A Child’s History of the World were great, though. I enjoyed it. My son liked it. I would recommend it, especially for younger children, perhaps before you get to The Story of the World, as it is not as thorough. It is out of print, and perhaps hard to procure. Recommend, for earlier.
Clearly and concisely written in an approachable conversational tone, this book was well-received by my early elementary kids and provides a good survey of world history. Certainly there is much expanding that can be done, and I loved the Sonlight curriculum and the supplemental texts we read to flesh out the history, but overall a great entry to history. Would recommend for elementary kids or even adults who want a fast overview to brush up on world history.
I really enjoyed each chapter. We would often chuckle at the slightly conversational remarks he made when discussing some period in history. Overall the chapters are the perfect length for reading aloud and coming away satisfied with some concrete knowledge of that portion of history. Will read again in about four years.
This book is magical, and we are on our second read as a family. I wish I would have had this book as a child. This is the single greatest book of history for children ( and really for any of us) I have read. I love this book. We will keep our copy in our home forever.
I'm really enjoying reading this book with Lindy. It's written almost conversationally, and is perfect for her to listen to at 7. It holds her interest & she remembers a lot of what we've read. I'm learning a lot from it, too!
This is a wonderful classic book of history. Hillyer was a school principal and used his students as sounding-boards for his writing. They told him what they thought and he wrote to please them. I learned from him and those students when I wrote my book.
audio version
Preparing Hearts for His Glory History Spine
This is a really good explanation of the events of world history. Easy to read...interesting! Great reference book to have.
Author and I disagree on some interpretation of history, but I liked it overall.
Such an interesting overview!
