https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46190.Love_Is_a_Mix_Tape
My favorite was when we would play ‘who should have been on the Lynyrd Skynyrd plane?’ On our first date, Maurice ended it, not with a kiss, but a ‘I’m going to make you a mix tape!’ I was amused.
There’s a part where he’s talking about just being Rob again:  “I now get scared of forgetting anything about Renee, even the tiniest detail, even the bands on this tape I can’t stand--if she touched them, I want to hear her fingerprints.“  I wonder if Maurice ever thought things like “I suddenly realized how much being a husband was about fear: fear of not being able to keep somebody safe, of not being able to protect somebody from all the bad stuff you want to protect them from.
It's about music and how it can weave through our lives and sew us together, even when we think we're unraveling.“When we die, we will turn into songs, and we will hear each other and remember each other.” I've had that quote on my wall for a couple of years, framed with several photos of musicians I love and have the good fortune to know or to have met.
Put them together, and they add up to the story of life.”Through his mix tapes, Rob leads us not only through his life with Renee, but through his devastation at her death, and how music stayed always and forever a part of it all.
They met when they were both twenty-three. Rob told Renee, “I’ll make you a mix tape!”, the same thing he’d told every girl he had a crush on. Except this time, it worked and Rob fell hard. Later, they planned to step on a cassette tape at their wedding ceremony, instead of a glass. Between them, they had a love for music, bound by a love for one another. Or maybe it was the other way around.  ”Renee was a real cool hell-raising Appalachian punk-rock chick. But, the first record she record she e
Rob told Renee, “I’ll make you a mix tape!”, the same thing he’d told every girl he had a crush on.
”We had nothing in common, except we both loved music.” Each chapter in this book begins with the name of a mix tape, and its song list.
I remember making mix tapes for my high-school girlfriend (followed immediately by a copy for myself – because damn I just put some fine music on there).
It’s also a love song to this girl who entered Rob’s life, and then his heart, and will always remain there.
Rob Sheffield has penned an honest (yet wildly entertaining) book that affected me more deeply than any book I've read in recent memory, woven throughout with a genuine and bleeding love for music.
I kept thinking that it was surprising to find a story so real and honest and intimate when I initially picked this up because, duh, it's about mix tapes.If you don't like reading about other people's love stories, you should still 100% read this book.
It was fun to skim the titles, looking for tracks I had used in my own mix tapes.One of my favorite chapters was when Rob got picked to play the music at his junior high dance.
Rob even wooed Renee by making her a mix tape, which is included in one of the chapters.
But at least I got to hear about her favorite music, which is as close to meeting someone as you can get.Update Aug. 2013:  Sheffield has a new book out about his life after his wife died, and it reminded me how much I had loved this memoir.
The title caught my eye since making mixtapes took up a lot of time during my teenage years.
It was a very quick read, but I loved it.
There's the times when even a favorite song is ruined because hearing it is just too painful...it just makes the situation too real.
Other times, it's hearing a new song that you know that person would totally flip for, but knowing they'll never be able to hear it.I think anyone who loves music, lived through the nineties, or has ever lost someone would really enjoy this.
And what I liked most was probably what others discarded--I liked hearing about the signifcance of all the songs and mixes and bands.
Every tenth line of the first long chapter is heavy foreshadowing mixed with hipster melodrama--you know, "That music changed my life.
But Renee was my life.
And then my life went away." Then something like "Love isn't like a cassingle.
It's like a mixed CD.
And my and Renee's hearts were mixed with an A and a B side.
did you hear?) wife the same: from the South, pie-baking, punk-riot, energetic, dyed-red hair, music-loving, extrovert.
Each chapter of this book starts with a tape and its contents, as Rob reminisces about their relationship with each other and with the music.
This book felt to me like a US-oriented essay version of the  Phonogram graphic novels, in the way it captures both a musical scene of the moment, and relationships between people that now feel tied to that moment forever, with both the scene and the people gone.
Rather than the Britpop that makes up Phonogram's soundtrack, Rob and Renée's life together is all grunge and guitar bands, leavened with a lot of Pavement.
And how did Rob Sheffield know he should skip all that and write a great book about the intersection of music, tragedy, and everyday existence?Love is a Mix Tape is Mr. Sheffield's account of his marriage, wife's death, and the role music played in their lives.
My only problem with Love is a Mix Tape surfaced near the text's end; Sheffield wraps up the narrative too quickly, in my eyes, out of nowhere.
Sheffield gets the fan's quieter, more personal relationship with music, the kind that gathers most of its power when no one is around, or when only one other person is around and the experience is shared as a manifestation of trust and love.
Oh man, shucks.I loved this book.I could say that the story arc could have been stronger or that he could have talked about mixtapes more (even though he talked about them a lot, I never get sick of it).
1a)He describes her as this sort of girl that's bouncy and  adventurous and strong, the kind of girl that I basically  assume all boys love, and the great thing is, she's a  real person.2) He is an Irish Catholic.
He talks about loving crap pop, and Pavement, and old country music on the radio.
Plus, he is talking about a great time in music and mixtapes.
It's not a perfect marriage however; they're broke most of the time, they fight, they get a dog, they drink Zima (remember Zima?) but they always listen to music as one.
Sheffield depicts the ache of new love and utter helplessness of losing it beautifully and following Rob through the next grief stricken chapters was at times hard to take.
Some of the tapes were made by Renee others by Rob but you're sure to have a lot of moments remembering your own life's soundtrack as you journey along with the music.
I really wanted to like this book, despite my mild dislike for Sheffield's writing in Rolling Stone magazine.
You would think that someone who writes for Rolling Stone would have high standards for determining what makes a good song.
I wanted at least some idea of how he climbed out of his grief to become a columnist for one of the most storied music magazines in the country.Sheffield likes to liberally sprinkle his writing with pop culture references as a way to show cool and ironic he is, and this book is no exception.
Rob Sheffield only had a few years with his wife before she died suddenly, and this book is about their relationship and his own background, all through mix tapes.
It is a clever framing but also full of meaning, because all of us are probably most connected to the music from our teen through college years.
Some of the music was unknown to me, but a lot of it was deeply familiar - I immediately went looking to see if someone had already pulled it together in Spotify, and they had!Another thing I loved about the book is how it reminds me of High Fidelity, a book/movie I happen to love, and the main character is also named Rob. Impossible not to think of it while reading this.
This isn’t a prettied-up-for-mass-consumption account of an individual's personal tragedy that is just, like, so super unique and deserving of publication because the author said so, thank God. It’s about Rob. It’s about other things, too, of course – music being chief among them – but mostly how they’ve left distinct and indelible marks on Rob’s persona.
There were definite divisions marking life before, during and after Renee, which certainly helped the story find a universally applicable element, but it’s Rob’s love of music that gives this books its strongest framework.
Защото тази книга е историята на неговия живот преди, със и след Рене и обяснението му в любов към нея, написано с езика на музиката, която ги събира."Любовта е сборна касетка" няма да бъде разбрана от поколението, което не познава удоволствието да намериш рядка плоча или сувенир на любимата група, за които с гордост да дадеш джобните си за цял месец + парите от няколко чувала върнати бутилки.
Или да си запишеш касетка, замествайки за пореден път счупените чопчета с тиксо или хартиени топчета и въпреки прекъсванията от радиото или шума от N-тия презапис, да си щастлив притежател на любимите парчета.Поколението, което не пренавива касетки с молив и не си прави купони по квартири и паркове с китари само заради музиката и живото общуване, няма как да я усети.
In the memoir, Love is a Mix Tape by Rob Sheffield, this concept of losing love and enjoying what you have while you have it is shown through the musically bonded love of two music journalist, Rob and Renee.
When looking back on his life and time spent with Renee, Rob is able to use their mix tapes they have created over the years to show the love they shared.
These mix tape that are quoted throughout the book are much more than just words to show their lives together, they symbolize a special moment in a specific time in Rob’s life.
I've had a few conversations with friends in the last year or so about the long-lost art of the mix tape, which has been delivered a death-blow by the digital age.
Burning a CD mix just isn't the same; for one, it doesn't take nearly as long to make a CD mix, which cheapens the sentiment attached to giving one to someone, especially when the hope is that the gesture and the songs themselves with make the recipient fall instantly in love with you.
And you no longer have to worry about the time remaining at the end of a cassette's side: will one last song fit?
short enough to fit, and b.
Any book that describes the summer of '94 as a series of drunken southern barbecues populated by mod-girls and indie rock dudes who always ended the party with the girls singing along to the entirety of Liz Phair's 'Exile In Guyville' on the back porch (word for word) while all the guys listened intrigued and obsessed and befuddled in the kitchen is A+ in my book.
See also, the tragic passage inspired by Sleater-Kinney's 'One More Hour', the eulogy to the '90s, and the author's recipe for the perfect party.
"I didn't know what to do without Renée. I didn't know what I was. I didn't have a noun." This is a heartbreaking story doused with a lot of love and happy times. Some parts were a bit cheesy, but the mix tape chapter headers were a fun touch. I appreciate Sheffield sharing this difficult part of his life and how he coped.
littered with gratuitous references to the music of the 1990s, the uncensored grief of a sensitive hetero dude, the life of a quirky, curvy girl tragically cut short by an unexpected pulmonary embolism, all delivered straight from the keyboard of a Rolling Stone editor -- this book tallies up enough points to keep it on the "fave books" list for many socialite myspace pages for years to come.
the book did freak me out A LOT because rob & renee met one day before krista and i did (september 17 and september 18, respectively) and they got married the same day we did (july 13 --- by the way!
His enthusiasm for music is not quite as limited:"Every time I have a crush on a woman, I have the same fantasy: I imagine the two of us as a synth-pop duo.
I'm the boy in the back, hidden behind my Roland JP8000 keyboard." Sheffield works literary wonders in describing the depth of his love for Renee, which gives the book a aching, vulnerable depth while he describes his appreciation for what is sometimes lighter and funnier musical choices, like Chaka Khan's "I Feel for You" or Tone Loc's "Funky Cold Medina".
There are millions of songs in the world, and millions of ways to connect them into mixes. A mix tape steals these moments from all over the musical cosmos, and splices them into a whole new grove.
I loved the idea of the intense power of music to draw on memory and expected my own memories to mesh with the story.
Quotable moments:But most of all, I regret turning thirteen, and staying that way for the next ten years or so.At any wedding we attend, my family is the problem table, the one everyone gradually drifts away from out of self-preservation.
For that matter, dog love is stupid.As soon as they hit the stage, you could hear all the girls in the crowd ovulate in unison.You lose a certain kind of innocence when you experience this type of kindness.
Accepting all that kindness, though, made me feel stupid.
But I had mix tapes made for me, and I still remember songs from those cassettes, and later I had mix CDs made for me, and I might still have some CDs my husband made for me years ago, when he wasn't even my boyfriend and I listened to them and tried to figure out how he was like and the whatnot.OK, so I really liked the book and I took it to Twitter to let Rob know that.
The fact that they married early and only had 5 years together as a husband and wife together before seemed glaringly obvious in his idolized, frequently cliche ramblings of her.His writing about the music itself outweighed his attention to the point he had initially started with and there were at least 2 chapters that seemed entirely unnecessary, if not distracting.Frequently his writing appeared to be designed more for a beer commercial than a book, when speaking to his affinity for mixed tapes he says, " ....The times you lived through, the people you shared those times with - nothing brings it all to life like an old mix tape".
I have a playlist for almost every feeling I experience- when I'm a sappy duck (the 'Kiss Me Till I'm Love Drunk' playlist), when I'm feeling like a creep (the'Icky Shit' playlist), when I'm feeling wrist slitty (the 'I Hate Myself and I Want to Die' playlist), when I'm going for a walk/run (the 'Crank It Up, Bitch' playlist), when I'm feeling super angsty (the'Don't Need Your Atti-fuckin'-tude' playlist), when a boy breaks my heart (the'You Broke My Heart and Made Me Cry So I Made a Playlist About It' playlist), playlist with songs that make my aural senses go into a coma (the'Ear Porn' playlist) and so on.
Cualquier valoración que se haga de este libro estará hecha desde la nostalgiahttp://entremontonesdelibros.blogspot...
Love is a Mix Tape is a beautiful memoir about the romance and untimely death of his wife Renee.I really enjoyed this sweet little book.
It already had two things going for it when I started reading:  1) I also lost my spouse while we were both still young and 2) given Sheffield is the same age as I am, our tastes in music overlap.
He's right that music becomes a memory - and I really enjoyed getting to know Rob, Renee and their relationship through his listing of various "mix tapes" they made during the years covered in the memoir.
I had no idea other couples did the mix tape thing as well.
I've wanted to read this book ever since I learned of it's existence way back in senior year of high school.
I wanted to read two music books back to back, some might think what an odd choice because Dawes book is about social issues regarding race and music, Sheffield's book is about music & love.
Sheffield has a song for every moment, for school dances, for breaking up, for making out, for driving down state highways and for losing Renee.
His tapes become a tribute, memory and song for her life.
Тук има толкова много музика, че свят да ти се завие.Животът в любими и нетолкова любими парчета, коита са малко като парфюм - някои от тях винаги свързваме с определени хора и ситуации - толкова много, че понякога ни е тридно да си ги пуснем отново, когато хората или ситуациите са се променили необратими или са изчезнали...
