https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7939024-i-ll-get-there-it-better-be-worth-the-trip
So Davy Ross is a thirteen-year-old boy who has been raised by his grandmother instead of by one of his divorced parents.
The insight shown by his narration is far beyond what would normally be capable of a boy his age.
Thirteen-year-olds are way too focused on "me" to have the insight shown by Davey.Other than that it's a touching and insightful story.
It left me shaking my head at what some adults consider "parenting."Davey's friendship with Altschuler is cute and very typical for many boys that age.
I don’t agree with the afterward written by Brent Hartinger – where he proclaims, “we’ve finally arrived” – but it is striking just how different our attitudes about homosexuality are today, compared to the attitudes of Davy’s world.)Davy is thirteen years old and has lived a very insulated, happy life with his grandmother “a great old girl” and their dachshund Fred.
They don't bring it up besides that pathetic excuse for a conversation at the end, where Davy says "I guess the most important thing is to not do it again."WTF?W....T....F...?WHY?How is this discussing anything?
Super Super Pathetic.Which leads me to number three,Onto my third and final complaint,Where's The Epiphany?I thought that this book was going to discuss teenage homosexuality, not skirt around it.
What kind of stuff is that?It doesn't feel like the book ended.
Maybe I would have liked this book if it wasn't made out to be something that it was not.
I did like this book for the first 150 or so pages.
I discovered it while browsing in the Young Adults section of my local public library (it was a recent addition to the library’s collection).
At the time, I was close in age to the protagonist, Davy (I turned 13 in December of 1969).
I bought it without hesitation, reread it and it still had the same poignant significance for me that it did when I was 12.I only wish that Mr. Donovan were still alive so that I could thank him for helping this lonely boy through some very difficult times in his early life.
The first Young Adult text that addressed homosexuality. Absolutely foundational, but totally censored. The sex/physical scene occurs between chapters, is referenced obtusely by the two main characters (both male teens) afterward and never addressed directly. Still, the author gets points for trying to make this novel work in a time when publishers tamped down any clear engagement with sexual diversity in YA. Nancy Garden's Annie On My Mind was also foundational, and took steps beyond this text, but Garden's writing was still chopped up by the demands of publishers.
Very well written almost timeless...when reading I never felt that it was over 40 years old.
In a strange new city, Davy copes with his mother's drinking, learning how to act towards his father's new wife, and attending a private Episcopal school where he meets Altschuler, a distant boy who is at turns friendly and moody.Upon its initial publication in 1969, John Donovan's I'll Get There.
It Better Be Worth The Trip.: 40th Anniversary Edition was hailed as being the first novel for young adults to deal with homosexuality in any form.
Other than that, the book is timeless and fits just as easily today as 1969.
And I feel kind of bad about it because it's supposed to be this amazing, moving story that was ahead of its time when it was originally published.
There's a heaviness to the story that Davy skirts on the edge of, focusing his time on his dog.
Any elements that hint at a decade are subtle, letting the most important aspect of the book, the story, come through.In that same vein, I felt like I was reading a day-by-day diary of a boy walking his dog.
It is supposed to be an amazing story and I can tell you, the writing is really good.
I usually rate erotica.
Rather, this timeless novel (published in 1969!) is a sensitive and compassionate tale of a young boy's developing sexuality and the crush he develops on a school mate.
Luckily, Davy has his faithful friend, his dachshund Fred.
At school, Davy meets a boy known simply as Altschuler.
At first the 2 boys are simply buddies, but their curiosity about each other leads to things that Davy will agonize about, explore and come to terms with.
Spoiler: The loss of Davy's canine friend Fred might have you forced to put the book down for a while.:(My rating: Very good, highly recommended.
I read this for a book club, although I had seen it on Amazon a few times and was tempted to check it out (mostly because I liked the cover).
It's a coming-of-age story that is mostly remembered today for being the first YA novel that dealt with homosexuality.
That said, there's barely anything gay about it, and the love interest is pretty subtle, with only two brief kisses in the entire thing.
I guess they didn't want to push too many boundaries in 1969?
I can't say I recommend this, although it wasn't bad, so if the plot seems like you're thing, check it out.
Even as a teenager, I don't think I ever found a YA book to be so familiar and easy to read. I honestly had a difficult time putting this down when I had to because I just wanted to know what happened next. This is not just a great keystone of gay literature history, but of YA history and more. I can't believe I never heard of this book before now!
What's not to love about a teen book from 1969 - a 13 year-old boy struggles with questions of his sexuality. John Donovan began the YA LGBTQ genre with one simple book. Simple but historic and still holds up today even with the dated responses of some of the characters. Revolutionary for 1969. So happy I read this one! Fred the Dachshund rules! Thanks Nicole.
It Better Be Worth the Trip is the first young-adult novel to feature lgbtq content in any meaningful sense, reviewed in the New York Times less than two months before the Stonewall riots.
So much of this book felt so real to me, like I was listening to the narrator, Davy Ross, tell me--"in what might be called Breathless First Person" according to that first New York Times review by John Weston back in May of 1969--his story while he sat across from me in a diner.
It Better Be Worth The Trip just has the best title ever and that fact alone would make me want to read the book.
That, coupled with the fact that it was such a ground-breaking in novel in its field makes it really worth a try.The 13 years old Davy Ross, the protagonist of the novel, feels all the isolation in the world a young teenager can possibly feel when his grandma dies, who had been taking care of him for the past eight years.
I only recently even heard about this book, and a strange one it is ...
Although the book is a bit too self-consciously Salingeresque (perhaps unavoidably), and there is way too much about the protagonist's damn dachshund (the initial NYT review claimed the book was about 'bestiality'!!!
and you just knew from the beginning Fred wouldn't last till the end of the book), it is a great reminder of how far YA lit has come in the intervening 48 years.
Apparently this book was the first queer YA novel, so that's why I picked it up.
This on barely even described anything 'queer' happening, but I guess that it paved the way for writers nowadays being able to write about boys kissing boys and girls kissing girls.
It did remind me a bit of 'The Well of Loneliness' in that the characters seemed to hate themselves a bit for their feelings, which was kind of depressing.
But, I'm sure there are tons of people who went through that when they were first struggling with their feelings.
The voice of Davy and his love for his dog Fred are memorable and true to life.
While I have never been a dog person I can still appreciate the importance of Fred to Davy as an anchor during the tremendous changes that are taking place in his life.
In some respects it is amazing that he is able to survive the events in his life beginning with the death of his grandmother and continuing through a move from Boston to New York and the changing relationships that ensue.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I always get worried when reading books that are the first to do anything, but this was a well written and heartfelt book about two boys figuring out life and their sexuality. It was a bit too subtle nuanced bc 1969, but I appreciate how big of a deal this book is, and I'm happy to have read it. (also screaming at the person who said this is the gay Catcher in the Rye bc I thought Davy sounded like Holden too, but is a more sympathetic character lol)
(bitter)sweet and of course quite coy about the actual gayness, while at the same time being surprisingly frank about it, considering.Martin Wilson's commentary is spot-on, too, imo.
WTF! the ending.... Were there any pages were cut off?
Okay look I know this was written in the 1969 and everything but wow that was an incredibly upsetting and disappointing ending. I feel real fuckin unfulfilled and angry.
John Donovan started the genre of gay teen literature, with this daring book written *before* Stonewall! I wish I’d read it when I was younger, but glad to have found it now. Lots of humor and difficult situations presented believably.
What an interesting book to read important for the time it was written in. Simple yet incredibly introspective.
When the book starts, he has just lost his grandmother who cared for him after his parents’ divorce.
Well except the last episode with his son where he speaks something that’s quite forward and pioneering considering that this book was published in 1969.
This book with a very long and catch title is considered to be the first ever Young Adult Gay fiction.
And the book became a gay classic.
To the modern day standard, there is nothing new about this book; a boy’s coming-of-age story.
A very confident school jock kind of a boy, he’s simply called Altschuler.
And while MTV certainly has ushered our youth into a world where sex and promiscuity is the norm in real life as well as in literature I don't feel that we have come all that far where gay and lesbian issue's are concerned.
And while this book addressed that very subject I still think society isn't ready for full acceptance of literature, frank literature, that would cover this subject properly.Recently I went to my daughter's Homecoming football game and I noticed three girl/girl couples that were very openly displaying their status as a lesbian couple and no one even blinked...I wonder if a boy/boy couple would have received the same acceptance.
I have mixed feelings for ‘I’ll Get There, It Better Be Worth The Trip’ because upon finishing this book, I was delighted; but while reading, especially the first half, I was bored.
It reads like a child has written it – which is very true to the inner voice of our protagonist Davy.The star of this book is definitely Davy’s dog, Fred!
Which I like, and am starting to see a trend away from that in modern releases – not everything needs to be tied up in a pretty little bow.A short novel with a lot of meaning, well worth the read – especially if you love dogs.
Maybe it's because I read a lot of modern contemporary novels, so when I start something that isn't in that genre, it can be slightly jarring at first.
That being said, one of my favourite novels is The Catcher in the Rye, and as soon as I started reading this...like literally the first couple sentences, I felt that same feeling I did when I first read Catcher.
Like I was reading and suddenly I realised I'd finished the book without realising.
I thought it was mostly rather realistic and touching, and I liked the hopeful vibe the book ended on.3.5/5
Instead the slow pacing added to the realness of the novel.
I am very impressed with what happened in the book and saw myself identifying with the main character a great deal.
Instead I feel that I read the book too late in my life to enjoy it the way I would have if I was around the main character's age.
All and all this book was a great read and I would recommend it to fans of YA literature or people that enjoy learning about queer history.
It Better Be Worth the Trip by John DonovanFinal Verdict: 4.0 out of 4.0YTD: 5Plot/Story:4 – Plot/Story is interesting/believable and impactful What is hardest to believe about I’ll Get There.
As a teenager, I read a few gay-themed novels, like Dream Boy by Jim Grimsley (which I adore), but this book is the starting point for realistic gay fiction and, more specifically, the realistic gay YA novel.
This is simultaneously a book that represents the end of idealized youths in YA fiction and also smacks its readers in the face with the presence of a typically denied or unrecognized type of person.
It is based in 1969 about a 13-year-old boy named Davy whose Grandmother has just died and he is forced to live with his alcoholic mother in Manhatten.
Fred is the only thing that's helping him overcome this until he becomes friends with a boy named Douglass, and their friendship takes an unexpected turn, which results in even more problems in Davy's life.
Douglass was quite moody and rude to Davy when they first met, but you can see how their friendship changes over time and both boys become more comfortable with each other.I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys coming-of-age stories set in the past.
