https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/995119.The_Lonely_Empress
Joan Haslip shows her living life on her terms, ignoring the wishes of her husband, the needs of her children and the responsibilities of her position.
The Emperor chose her instead and loved her for the rest of her life.
She may at one time have loved the emperor, but hated court life and her role as empress - always.
As Elisabeth slowly gained control of her life and her children, she satisfied herself and ignored the needs of her children.
Haslip’s significant research shows the Emperor pining for his wife as she gadded about Europe.
Haslip covers the life and her diligent research is shows.
A vivid, wild beauty trapped in the royal cage, full of boring conventions. A woman whose happiness consisted in riding horses and being in nature, was condemned to lifeless, royal meetings full of hypocrisy and lack of a natural, fresh air. She had too much passion for a royal life, and if that wasn't enough, all her life she was followed by melancholy - her shadow.
I'm extremely interested in the Empress Elisabeth of Austria, and Joan Haslip's biography is one of the better books on her.
I like it that she also tells a lot about the other people around Elisabeth, as they are also extremely interesting and help to understand her personality.
But you should not pass up on Hamann's book if you really are interested in Elisabeth, as that book tells you much more.
Haslip, who specialized in this kind of biography, has basically deconstructed the romance of Elizabeth's life to let the reader grasp how essentially empty both her interior and exterior existences were.
By the end of the story, what story there is --- if Elizabeth accomplished anything worthwhile at all in her aimless life, Haslip doesn't mention it --- the reader is fed up with the reality, and longing for Ava Gardner or Romy Schneider, who both played her in the movies.
Having long been fascinated by the Romy Schneider movies portraying the very "pink" version of Elizabeths life i over the years read and heard bits and pieces of information that gradually made me realise there was more there than just 3 movies, stunning gowns and the evil mother-in-law/aunt Sophia.a few years back i stumbled upon a spanish novel - VALS NEGRO by Ana Maria Moix - that, although short and somewhat romanticized, gave a very engaging and interesting description of Sissis life and ti
then the bad honeymoon, the hard relationship with her mother-in-law, the constant travels, the never ending dread of Vienna and the court life!in what Haslip fails is that she delves too much into feelings and possibilities, what Elizabeth could have done, what she was thinking, how should she have reacted and all such stuff...hardly the ideal road to follow in writting a bio on any subject, much less a woman with such a fascinating personality that no conjecturing is needed....let the proven facts speak for themselves and each reader will have his/hers own opinion.all in all it is an easy to read, even if it clearly shows its age...unlike some other books on the same matter.For a light introduction, perhaps not a bad choice, but if you really want to know more about her i would recommend the french historian Jean des Cars who has some absolutely wonderful books on both Elizabeth and the Hapsburg Dinasty and then of course, the essential book - Count Egon Cesar Corti´s Bio of the empress, its dated yes, but it tells the story of her life admirably well, with access to great sources and it lets the facts do all the talking!
Haslip is extremely good at taking an insightful and sympathetic, yet objective and critical, approach towards her subject, Elizabeth of Austria, the woman better known to history as Princess Sisi.
I would have liked a greater deal of analysis of her legacy and of the immediate impact of her death; to end the book with her murder makes it seem curiously truncated, especially considering how great a mythos had grown up around Elizabeth even by the time Haslip was writing.
I became interested in Sisi after a trip to Europe this year where she came up in our visits to Budapest, Munich and then of course Vienna where we saw her palace and exercise equipment.
I think she was at once sympathetic to Sisi but also clearly saw her critically which was great, because I think I would have been annoyed if she tried to convince us all Sisi was just a poor misunderstood gentle soul.
I just wished it had ended a bit later after Sisi's (spoiler alert) death.
That's when I watched a series of movies starring Romy Schneider as Sissi (the Empress's nickname).
Was I ever wrong!The biography, The Lonely Empress: Elizabeth of Austria by Joan Haslip, shows us the young girl who fell in love, the young woman who lost something precious and the loneliness that she felt throughout her life.
No longer I am the starry eyed girl who fell in love with the movies, but the woman who can (sometimes) understand the intricacies of life and love.Has the obsession quieted down?
I will still watch the movies, and read about the actress that portrayed that special character that I love so much.
Another family whose "nervousness" created political and social upheaval for their countries.
This is what results from all the intermarrying cousins.
Elisabeth probably merits an updated, scholarly study of her life and legacy.
This book is a work of historical fiction rather than a biography.
There are big leaps in the logic, speculation about what happened and disregard for missing or available evidence.
Haslip's blatant dismissal of the Mexican statesman, Benito Juarez, is appalling.
But if it's your first foray into the history of this period, it lays out a good basic framework.
I just finished this book about the Austrian Empress Elizabeth, or "Sisi" as she was known.
After visiting the various imperial palaces in Vienna, I wanted to read more about the Habsburg dynasty.
This book is a good read, but sometimes meanders through her life.
I got to know the Habsburgs and Wittelsbachs a bit in this book, and will definitely read more about them.
"The Lonely Empress" is a decent start to exploring this topic, and I hope to find more books that are slightly better reads.
Somehow the author doesn't seem to be able to decide if she thinks Elisabeth was a misunderstood poor little thing or a horrendous bitch, and both opinions affect the narrative quite a lot - too much for a biography, if you ask me. Haslip gets too much into Elisabeth's head, telling what she must have thought when this or that happened, which makes the book feel more fictive than biographical.
horrible, finished it only for historic value. very romanticized. author makes a lot of naive assumptions.
The book is peppered with comments like:"It must've been hard for a normal full blooded man, infatuated with his young wife, to have to humor her whims and treat her with the gentleness and restraint no other woman had ever expected of him." (This was right after a passage about Sisi struggling with her first pregnancy, and how she felt "deformed.")Or "This was Elizabeth's opportunity to help and comfort her husband, and with patience and understanding make herself indispensable to his well-being, but she had too little knowledge of men in general and Francis Joseph in particular to give him the help he needed.
I got the impression that Haslip didn't really want to write about Sisi.
I read a few paragraphs about this family years before and found the story of the murder suicide involving her son so interesting that when I found this biography in the library I had to read it. This book did not disappoint. Reading it explains many things in the history of Europe. I had seen some of the amazing castles built in Austria in that time and was fascinated with the crazy guy that built it and it was interesting to learn more about him. Like I said this book fills in lots of blanks.
I read this back in the 70s and it is this book which inspired me to find out more about Elisabeth of Austria. I recently managed to track this copy down in the library store. It is so very dated, which of course didn’t come across to me at my first reading of it. Too much bias too! But I’m finally visiting Vienna and it is this book which started my fascination with Vienna and the Hapsburg Empire
The author wasn't objective; wrote with obvious disdain for poor Sisi. It may seem a minor thing, but the anglicised names (particularly Elisabeth to Elizabeth) bothered me.
een tweede fascinatie naast Hatjsepsoet
Haslip talks about Franz Joseph's "lack of imagination" and blames it for his inability to understand his wife; I think this extends to Sophie and the ministers and all the other people in Elisabeth's life who were unable to see what a valuable contribution this person could have made, if she'd been given something real to do, something other than attending balls.On the whole, I found this a very interesting account, well-researched and accessing a variety of Elisabeth's contemporaries, while clearly noting which are less reliable.
If it is because this book is quite outdated, it being written in the '60 s or because miss Haslip simply didn't like the empress Elisabeth, will probably always remain a mystery.
Though many books and movies are overflowing of the romantic view people have towards this deeply troubled empress, miss Haslip takes ripping a person apart to a whole new level.
There is no need to romanticise Elisabeth, she was after all only human in an extraordinary position, that most of us would have been unable to handle like a saint.
While Lady Di was in an unhappy marriage, during and after her time with Charles, she clearly had a sense of duty, understanding that her role as a Princess came with responsibilities.
Sisi, on the other hand, had a husband that clearly adored her, but she was terrified of crowds and shirked her responsibilities at home and abroad, again and again.The sad comparison that does probably stick is that both had eating disorders and a compulsion to avoid food and rigorously exercise in order to stay slim, although I think Sisi probably took it to further extremes than Diana -- there were some days where she would literally walk from dawn until dusk, wearing out every lady-in-waiting in her trail.
The Sisi Museum, which showcases Viennese culture at its finest, was the catalyst in my picking up this hefty little tome.
Believe it or not, the best part of this museum wasn't actually the vast curation of porcelain and fine dining ware located on the ground floor, but the upper apartments, which is where the Emperor and his family lived.
They also had an entire section devoted to Sisi, the fascinating Austrian empress, whose personality has pretty much bewitched both Viennese and tourists alike.
But she was truly a tormented person whose tragic death by way of an Italian anarchist makes her life even more of a juicy read.
This book was very intriguing.
I was gripped in the beginning as Elizabeth was coming into her own as an adult.
I liked the way the author presented many different perspectives in the book and drew on many sources for the information.
The book didn't feel too one sided, at many times I felt sympathetic to Elizabeth, but at other times I felt disheartened by the way she treated some others.
The last section of the book, was harder to get through.
As a biography, and as a story of Elizabeth, I thought this was a good choice.
I found this a really interesting biography about Sisi's life. The way in which it was written was something I found very enjoyable, and made it a very nice read. :) The idea you get about Sisi's life seems trustworthy enough.What I also liked is that Joan Haslip tried to make everyone look nice, and had an understanding for everyone. I liked that, because I mean - everyone has their motives and their good characteristics.. But somehow this approach wasn't used towards Stephanie, which I found a little surprising.
I have mixed feelings about this book. On the one hand, I found Hamann's 'Reluctant Empress' to be a superior biography; initially this book didn't provide much new information and ended a great deal more abruptly. However, the final few chapters, concerning Rudolf's suicide, the whole Mayerling affair, and the final years of Elisabeth's life were especially gripping. I would recommend Hamann over Haslip, but if you are truly interested in learning more about Elisabeth's life, this is also a valuable resource.
I originally read this book when I had seen the movie Mayerling when I was about 15.This book has remained a fav for many years ,so to be able to reread it and own a copy has been great.When I compare her life with Dianas there is a parallel ,the opposite is the beautiful Alexandra of england who was so close to the people of England that she was revered above her husband .Unlike Alexandra Sisi,s husband adored her and never took other women ,and yet she still was never happy.Well written and well worth the time to read it
This was a depressing and incredibly interesting portrait of a woman and her family. As a biography I felt it went into intimate detail, although the author imposed her own bias at different points, sympathizing with the empress at times and her husband at others, sometimes to a distracting degree. The fact that I didn't really like or respect the empress very much did not detract from my interest in the story of her life as described by Haslip.
I found this book to be an easy to read, practically unbiased look at the life of the Empress Elisabeth of Austria. I like the fact that Ms. Haslip doesn't designate anyone to be 'the hero' or 'the villian', which sadly seems to be the case with a number of other biographies about the Empress. She shows positive and negative traits of all involved, and no one gets a free pass for their behavior, not even Elisabeth herself.
Interessante biografie van Erzsébet van Oostenrijk-Hongarije. Bedoeling was het boek mee te nemen als vakantieliteratuur naar Hongarije, maar ik had het al voor twee derde uit voor ik vertrok. In het begin een beetje mijn weg moeten zoeken in de serie namen van familie en aangetrouwden, maar al snel helemaal mee met de keurig in hoofdstukken van een bladzijde of twintig opgedeelde hoofdstukken van Joan Haslip.
Kinda depressing, because I just couldn't figure out why she was so unhappy, but depression, borderline anorexia and disillusionment with an arranged marriage will do that to you, I guess. She was considered one fo the most beautiful women in Europe, her husband worshipped her till the day she died, but it was more pressure than she could handle.
Continuing my fetish for royal biographies, this is the Empress Elizabeth of Austria, the famous Sisi, who seems to have been the Diana, Princess of Wales of the nineteenth century. It is thoroughly researched and well written but the subject herself does not come over as an interesting or appealing person. I am struggling to finish it and probably will not.
