https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7766027-i-hunt-killers
Not only is he the son of the country’s most notorious serial killer, but dear old daddy even forced him to watch those grisly crimes and sometimes…more.I’ve always been interested in how human beings cope with extreme circumstances, and the way children in particular can demonstrate remarkable resilience.
The choice to use humor to hook the reader into the story is brilliant, and I thoroughly enjoyed being in Jazz’s conflicted and absurdly playful head.Despite its humorous tone and exceptional writing, however, my guess is that this is going to be an extremely polarizing book.
(click to enlarge)I love reading about and researching serial killers. There, I said it. I am perpetually fascinated by the stories that seem too far-fetched to be true. Elizabeth Báthory allegedly bathed in the blood of virgins to retain her youth. Ted Bundy kept the decapitated heads of his victims in his house as mementos. Ed Gein dug up dead bodies and made a belt out of nipples. This is the stuff nightmares are made of. So it was with a certain excitement that I started reading I Hunt Kill
The other is a new killer, one who just started murdering people in Jazz's own town.
He knows the history and evidence from his father's kills in and out and believes he understands the mind of a serial killer, so when the new killer starts racking up victims, Jazz attempts to help the local police solve the crime.
The chief humors him more than I believe to be likely, but the funnier parts of the novel, and it IS funny, involve Jazz and his hemophiliac best friend Howie doing a little crime-solving work on their own.
Normally this would annoy me but after the first couple chapters I was quickly captivated by the thought process of young Jasper (more commonly known as Jazz) Dent.
Once you get to understand him, the style it is written in makes so much more sense and fits to his personality and lifestyle.This poor guy has lived a life of hell!
How can it not twist a person?When a new serial killer makes an appearance in his town, Jazz is determined to help solve it.
The mental battles Jazz goes through are so well described.
This book goes through a wide range of mental processes one might experience under such a life.
Yeah, I enjoyed it. Is that good? ❤️
Sequel, please? Now? I thought this book was really really good. I would have happily handed out five stars, except for the fact that I had the killer's identity figured out less than halfway through the book. I feel very sad that Ms Dense seems to have been randomly replaced with Marple, but thankfully this novel is about a lot more than just solving the main mystery.I actually took longer to read this book than I tend to do, and most of that time was spent on the first few chapters. So I shal
I feel very sad that Ms Dense seems to have been randomly replaced with Marple, but thankfully this novel is about a lot more than just solving the main mystery.I actually took longer to read this book than I tend to do, and most of that time was spent on the first few chapters.
The problem was, depraved individual that I am, I felt the introduction to the story and characters to be really light.
But I honestly thought there was something extremely horrifying and effective about the contrast between light and dark tones in the novel.
He has killed 123...or 124, people before stupidly getting caught, and now poor Jazz is left to grow up pretty much on his own in a town where his name is notorious for being the child of a serial killer who got caught.
Now, there's another killer loose in the town of Lobo's Nod, Jazz thinks it's a serial killer but nobody believes him, and he's out to investigate.Not the smartest move if you want to stay under the radar, but I suppose if he acted intelligently and kept his head low, this book wouldn't exist.Jazz: I loved Jazz's character, his complexity, his conflicting desires.
Jasper Dent is the most popular teenage boy in school.
Well, he’s only the son of the most notorious killer, Billy Dent who kind of reminds me of Dennis Hopkins as Hannibal.
Jasper’s crazy Gramma although most of the things she said and did were plain horrifying provided dark comic relief while his hilarious best friend, Howie [who reminds me so much of my favorite singer, Natasha Bedingfield’s I Bruise Easily (in the most literal sense)] provided the light and easy ones.Identifying the killer was kind of easy and a bit predictable but it did not interfere with the suspense of the story.For the author to be able to come up with an idea like this alone is already impressive.I would really want to read the sequels but they're too long (for me) and lately I've been such a lazy reader and couldn't seem to read anything more than 400 pages.
But with an older sister at home, I skipped the fairy tales, instead I grew up watching Freddy Krueger and reading murder mysteries.
In I Hunt Killers, being in the most notorious serial killer's son's head, we learn a lot about the ins and outs of this lifestyle.
He doesn't want to be like his father, but is it too late?
It's sad and it's terrifying to be inside Jazz's head.
He's simple minded and a great supportive friend to Jazz.
And they're gonna give me the AIDS to kill me off!" Grandma rantedFaint of heart?
After making my way through the entire collection of prequel short stories in this series, I was ready to commence the novel trilogy, armed with enough background information.
There is a great deal for the attentive reader to learn within these pages and this is sure to help create a real buzz for the rest of the trilogy and handful of short pieces on offer.A friend of mine got me interested in the I Hunt Killers series and I have not been able to put it down.
➸  Book 2  : Game ✬✬✬✬✬➸  Book 3  : Blood of my Blood ✬✬✬✬✬The fact is, I love Dexter. Wait - I mean, early Dexter. Not the I-wonder-out-loud-while-doing-the-thing-I'm-wondering-out-loud-about-Dexter we're forced to stand in the end. What Dexter? Come on! See, everything is in the voice-over and Oh, dear. Don't get me started about the dumbest thing the show became in the end. So, I loved Dexter. I love everything serial-killer related. Therefore I was prepared to love this book. It didn't disap
Except that thing - you know, the arrest of one of the biggest serial-killer of all times - aka Jazz's father.
: There's enough depth in the characters to make them enthralling and interesting to follow.▤ Jasper 'Jazz' Dent, teenager, raised by a serial killer, who's continually afraid to cross the boundaries between good and evil.
Moreover, I really think that guilt can grandly influence people behavior, so his need to show that he's good, that he isn't like his father?
Jasper was a decent lead character.
Lyga really did a good job selling that aspect of the story.
The mystery aspect of the story was pretty well done.
I never guessed the identity of the copycat killer until just before the big reveal and even then Lyga had another big twist up his sleeve that should make for an interesting sequel story!
I feel like I'm being a bit generous here but this is better than a lot of the books I rate 3.5 stars.
WHAT. FRESH. HELL.Already partway into book two. Because this might be the first series since Hunger Games that I read back to back to back. Not that that's a big thing or anything.If you put How to Get Away With Murder, Criminal Minds, and Law-Abiding Citizen into a blender, add a dash of Psych and a teen protagonist, something like this book would be the end result.Gory at times but also completely fascinating, like my favorite shows/movies here.
THIS IS A CRIME SCENE INVESTIGATION.Oh who are we kidding...no one ever pays attention to warnings, especially book characters.Our lead character Jasper (Jazz) is no exception.
Mine would be too if I had to watch my dad mutilate people and animals when I was a small child, and because of this I now couldn't get my father's voice out of my head.
If you were stuck walking somewhere, wouldn't you want to let loose and run like hell?
It's going to be quite the experience to watch as Jazz figures out his own head.
"Have the lambs stopped screaming, Clarice?" Howie said suddenly in a dead-on Hannibal Lecter impression.
This book has been on my TBR forever, so I brought it on vacation with me so I'd finally read it.
The one problem that he faces that no other teenager faces is that his dad is the world's worst serial killer.
The victims have the same initials, occupation, sex and age as the victims that Jazz's dad originally killed.
Jazz wanted to know and he decides to join the police in a hunt for the new serial killer.This book was really enjoyable!
At times it was gruesome…I suggest this book to people that like mysteries, murders and Young Adult reads :)
Combining two great genre's..Thriller (serial killer shit) and young adult. You would think I would be all over that. I was to a point.Jasper Dent is one of the world's worst serial killers son. He isn't that family member who swears they never noticed anything being off about his dad. His dad trained him. Trained him to kill, and do it well. Jasper does not want to end up like Dear Old Dad though, because People Matter. He teams up with his best buddy Howie (who I simply adore) and his girlfrie
I was to a point.Jasper Dent is one of the world's worst serial killers son.
His dad trained him.
Jasper does not want to end up like Dear Old Dad though, because People Matter.
There is no way in hell that a police dept is going to allow a 17 year old as much freedom with butting in on their case.
The book somewhat reminded me of the Dexter TV series which my husband has completely gotten my hooked on, but still is a fresh new take on it.
I'm hoping the other books in the series are a tad bitter more believable than this one for me.
Jasper “Jazz” Dent was raised by his father Billy, one of the world’s most violent serial killers.
In Jasper, Lyga created a well-rounded, consistent and truly believable character.
As much as I loved Jazz’s best friend Howie (and really, how does a serial killer’s son get a type A hemophiliac for his best friend?), Connie is one of those characters that make me proud to be a woman.
My only problem is that he made Billy Dent, Jazz’s personal boogeyman and the world’s most notorious serial killer sound funny!
3.5 starsI was in two minds if I should pick this one so soon after reading the true crime story of Ted Bundy.
So this one has gore and can be icky at times but it has flashes of humor which was surprising.
The book is well balanced where the dark side is combined with the humorous tones of the writing.
I would still say it is a Dark read and to read this only if you can bear the sadistic workings of a killers mind.The book is from the perspective of 17 yr old Jasper Dent who is the son of famou
3.5 starsI was in two minds if I should pick this one so soon after reading the true crime story of Ted Bundy.
The book is well balanced where the dark side is combined with the humorous tones of the writing.
I would still say it is a Dark read and to read this only if you can bear the sadistic workings of a killers mind.The book is from the perspective of 17 yr old Jasper Dent who is the son of famous serial killer Billy Dent.
AGHH!!! Look how badass this is!!! Thanks, Frenchy Bug!! We take our pimp job seriously, you know.... Jazz was afraid of two things in the world, and two things only. One of them was that people thought that his upbringing meant that he was cursed by nature, nurture, and predestined to be a serial killer like his father. The second thing...was that they were right. EEEEEEE! This made me immensely happy....in a super sick, masochistic way. Like, really?? Why have I never heard about this book be
One of them was that people thought that his upbringing meant that he was cursed by nature, nurture, and predestined to be a serial killer like his father.
It was as ordinary as reading a billboard on the highway: You don't really think about the billboard; you just notice it and your brain processes it, and that's that.And here is why I loved this book so much-Jazz.
People look at him differently because they don't know why he didn't stop him even if he knew it was wrong.
Weird as it may be, I think the idea that Jazz felt like someone was watching him got to me.
To see how their thoughts are different from what they let people see, to see Jasper and Connor manipulate people to get what they want, to see Lily, Lucy even Meg having completely different reactions to gigantic situations?
Jasper Dent is the son of a serial killer.
And after 4 years of his dad being arrested, Jasper doesn't know if he is good or bad, if he's going to be a killer or not.
Taught by his father, he knows how to manipulate, how to make people think what he wants, has the urge to kill.
It has been four years since Billy Dent was finally captured and locked up for a life long career spanning decades as the country’s most feared and infamous serial killer.
Jasper lives in the same small town, lives in the same rundown house his Dad grew up in and everyone seems to be waiting for Jazz to follow in dear ole dad’s footsteps.
Jazz and Howie have been best friends through it all—before Billy Dent was caught and after.
The trust and loyalty between Jazz and Howie was the heartbeat and love of this story for me.
That being said, I can’t remember the last time I’ve been so utterly creeped out by a story!Jasper Dent was raised by a monster, his father Billy, privy to his activities, schooled in his evil ways.
The murder has all the marks of a serial killer, and Jazz is determined to stop him.
As a reader you realize that Jazz desperately wants to prove that he’s unlike Billy, and stopping someone like his father might help in that regard.Being inside Jazz’s mind was a bit disturbing at times.
I knew it was just a matter of time before Jazz registered on the killer’s radar, making this a suspenseful and frightening read.
"You'll be the greatest ever...They'll never catch you. You'll be the new boogeyman parents use to scare their kids into behaving. You'll make everyone forget Speck and Dahmer and even Jack the Goddamn Ripper. My boy. My boy." This book is one sick, twisted, ride. And I enjoyed every damn second of it.It’s not easy being a teenager; Jasper “Jazz” Dent knows this. But it’s a thousand times harder when you’re the son of the most infamous serial killer in history. You see, Jasper’s father Billy ki
The characters are some of the best written, fully fleshed out protagonists I’ve come across, the writing has some of the sassiest and sarcastic dialogue I’ve read, and the mystery aspect of this book will keep you up well into the night, keeping an eye out to see if Billy Dent is coming for you.All of the characters in this series are so beautifully well-written.
But when you’re the son of a serial killer and your best friend is a Type A hemophiliac who bleeds if someone looks at him the wrong way; now that’s what I call unconventional.
124 - that's the number of people Billy Dent had brutally murdered, many of them in front of his little son's very eyes, before he was captured and convicted 4 years ago; but not before teaching him everything he knew about killing.
When dead bodies start piling up in his town, showing a disconcerting resemblance to his father's victims, Jazz gets the chance to prove to himself and the people around him that he is more than just a killer's son.
First Line: “By the time Jazz got to the field outside town, yellow police tape was everywhere, strung from stake to stake in a sort of drunken, off-kilter hexagon.”Cover Story: Night Prowler“I'm your Night Prowler, break down your doorI'm your Night Prowler, crawling 'cross your floorI'm your Night Prowler, make a mess of you, yes I willNight Prowler, and I am telling this to youThere ain't nothing you can do” – AC/DC Five-Sentence Summary:Jasper “Jazz” Dent wants nothing more than to be left alone, but as the only son of notorious serial killer Billy Dent, responsible for over 100 brutal murders, he knows his life will never be normal.
Barry Lyga crafted the ultimate outsider, the son of a serial killer, and gives him a sympathy all the while prickling us deep down wondering what makes a young man like him tick (or perhaps be a ticking time bomb).
The main character Jazz has a black girlfriend named Connie who is no weak-willed pushover and his friend Howie suffers from hemophilia but is found in the thick of the action with a well-placed quip.
Jasper (Jazz) Dent is a typical, good-looking teenage boy who just so happens to be the son of the most notorious serial killer in America.
There are few YA books not only told in the point of view of a boy, but a boy like Jasper Dent, who's father was a notorious serial killer and since birth, was raised to be one as well.
Was Jasper (Jazz) just like his father or was he different?
Was he just a boy trying to be good or a killer waiting to break out of his shell and become what he was so lovely trained and conditioned to be?I loved every heart pounding moment of this story and the very characters themselves.
I love Jasper.
I love how strong and smart Connie is and how off the wall Howie is.And man, is Jazz's dad evil.
He does love his son, but dang.
He's trying to turn Jazz into a copy of him.
Jazz struggles with his messed up childhood and trying to resolve all of these issues.
Read this book if you like dark crime dramas, redemption and an excellent lack of race fail.
You should read it too.
You should read it too.
Just do it.Still think this book is worth reading even though it is very disturbing.
There are always times when you think the concept of a book is so interesting and potentially awesome that you're sure you're going to be let down when you read it.
Nurture debate is one of the most interesting to me, and in a story like this, where a boy is essentially being groomed to be the world's finest Serial Killer Extraordinaire by his, um - talented?
It's fascinating.And interlaced with all of this, there are snippets of things Jazz saw or did with his father, as well as snippets of narration from the current Lobo's Nod serial killer, which help escalate the tension and show what Jazz really is up against and why he's so haunted.
But Barry Lyga must have some sort of shady part time job or at least serial killer mind-reading powers, because this book is BRILLIANT.Jazz — son of the most notorious serial killer, snarky teenager, and overall charmer — takes the phrase dark hero to extremes!
I didn't expect to be that enamoured by this book, but the serial killer logistics and chilling details had me reading into the early hours of the morning!Part compelling murder mystery, part intense psychological thriller, and 100 % brilliantly original story, I Hunt Killers is a deliciously dark novel that I would recommend to people of all sanity levels!
First it was In Cold Blood, now there’s this young adult novel I Hunt Killers.Teenager Jasper Dent (known to his friends as Jazz) was raised by notorious serial killer Billy Dent, who did his best to make his son into Satan’s little helper.
Billy is in jail at this point and Jazz is living with his bat-shit-crazy grandmother, trying to keep Social Services at bay, and trying to figure out how much of his father’s criminality he is responsible for.
