https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14383.No_Rest_for_the_Wicked
Slowly but surely, I'm figuring out these mystical beings and beginning to connect the dots between their stories.
The audiobook narration continues to be fantastic as well.Like the second book in the series, 'No Rest For The Wicked' centers on the forbidden romance between a Valkyrie and a vampire.
Once again, we're gifted with an extremely sexy alpha-male and a less than enthused "bride".
Ms. Cole has figured out a formula that works for her series and I'm completely enthralled.If you haven't read this series, I highly recommend it.
I'm listening to the fourth book now and I continue to be captivated by this story.
if you want me to.What do they like about these novels?
What progressed was Sebastian discovering that he could not control, dominate or cage Kaderine because she would never love him that way.
What progressed was him realizing he wanted to help her achieve her dream because he cared about her and loved her EXACTLY the way she was without even trying to take her away from her family, her life or her passions.Finally.A relationship dynamic that DOESN'T make me feel slightly queasy.
This book has the most realistic insta-love in a PNR that I've ever read!Seriously, I am surprised how the author did it and it made me bump it up a star. I just couldn't believe it! I know comparing books isn't the thing, especially in reviews but I just have to explain why this shocked me so :DI'm currently reading another paranormal series that has to do with vampires, and I just couldn't NOT compare these two, especially because this one has a vampire as male lead too.Anyway, you know how it
Boy, did she do it right!Insta-love writers, take a hint from THIS!!!!!!!!!There is insta-something in this book, right at the start of it, the two protagonists realise they are "mates" in the first scene of the book :DDDDDBUT!Kaderin hates vampires and wants nothing to do with Sebastian, nd the poor dude spends almost the entire book convincing her he is different and that they are meant to be together.This isn't what was different here, actually this is pretty much how every PNR goes LOLTHIS is what surprised me:*quote from Sebastian*(view spoiler)["Myst goes on the computer each day and checks the results.
“And now, for the first time in three hundred hellish years, Sebastian desperately wanted to live.”  Sebastian Wroth is my favorite type of hero. He's persistent, gentle, adamant and freaking hot ! I fell in love with this book since the first chapter. Kresley Cole outlined No Rest for the Wicked very well because she didn't left any details out. The beginning of it and the ending were powerful, I felt emotions through the book even when I didn't read it, it was still there.  “They desecrate Ri
I fell in love with this book since the first chapter.
The beginning of it and the ending were powerful, I felt emotions through the book even when I didn't read it, it was still there.
Apart from Sebastian's persistent characteristic, he's the one moving the story forward and putting power in each pace of the story.
While I hated Kaderin for being an idiot sometimes, her character still moved me along with Sebastian's without any concerns.
To be honest, this book was enjoyable and that unexpected twist almost tore me apart.
I loved every minute of reading it.
SpoilersSo Good..... All I can say about this series so far is WOW!!!!!!!!! I am so loving this series.Kaderin the Cold Hearted is a Kickass Warrior Valkyrie who hates vampires because she had mercy on a vampire and he turned around and killer her two sisters. Her guilt and pain was so much that a goddess took away all of her emotions leaving her feeling nothing until she meets Sebastian Wroth ... Sebastian was a Warrior like his other 3 brothers. He was turned into a vampire against his will by
I am so loving this series.Kaderin the Cold Hearted is a Kickass Warrior Valkyrie who hates vampires because she had mercy on a vampire and he turned around and killer her two sisters.
Sebastian was a Warrior like his other 3 brothers.
He was turned into a vampire against his will by his two older brothers.
He is Shy,a dedicated scholar, cunning and strong, but Hated what he was turned into and lived alone and depressed until Kaderin shows up and makes his heart beat again
On to the Next book in this series :)
He never really tried to fit in before, but now he really wants to be worthy for his bride.Kaderin will try to ignore Sebastian (unsuccessfully) and she will enter the Hie competition -where the majority of the Lore factions are represented - to win the ultimate price in order to gain back her lost happiness all these centuries.
Nikolai loves his brother and he understands what it means to have a Valkyrie as a bride.Gradually Sebastian and Kaderin will fall in love and their mating will be explosive.Super awesome out of this world addition to the series.
I'm also sure it will come as no surprise to those who've followed my status updates that I freaking LOVED this book!Right from the start, No Rest for the Wicked had me captivated and giddy.
I also found myself eager for the love story to be resolved, as I felt the hero truly deserved his HEA.
As for the heroine, Kaderin the Coldhearted, I wasn't her biggest fan for a good portion of this book.
No Rest for the Wicked was an absolutely delightful read.
I honestly can't remember the last time I had so much fun reading a book!
"If you love something, you protect it ruthlessly. No matter what occurs."  This series is getting better and better. The 3rd book in the 'Immortals After Dark' series by Kresley Cole is full of extreme ideas, a fast-paced plot, exquisite characters and brilliant humor.The events revolve around the Talisman’s Hie, a contest for immortals, where the ultimate price is unimaginably precious, and the setting is more than adventurous. This savage, bloody competition gives another peek into the fabu
It is an amazing alternative reality, with fascinating characters, and sometimes I just feel I want to be a part of it myself so bad.Sebastian and Kaderin’s first scene proves how important and overpowering fate is in this world.Their relationship, reactions and feelings for each other are expressed on a very special level.
I love these powerful and limitless strong emotions.Sebastian is irresistible, ingenious, determined.
Sebastian makes her feel again, but Kaderin is obstinate and full of hate for vampires.
I feel like I did when I finally got around to reading J.R. Ward's BDB.
Now I can't wait to read more!I'll admit I fell HARD for the hero in this book, the reluctant vampire named Sebastian Wroth.
I especially liked the reference to 'Survivor' host Jeff Probst--very funny!And although there weren't a lot of sex scenes, the few that were written were smokin' hot, and filled with emotion!
Believe me, you won't even miss the lack of a lot of sex scenes, because the book is filled with longing, and sexual tension, and before you know it, it's almost over--and you won't want it to end!
To be honest, I wasn't "feeling the love" in the first half of this book, but things got much better in the second half.Back in 1709, Sebastian Wroth was turned into a vampire by his brother Nikolai, the hero in The Warlord Wants Forever.
I loved how he got all nervous and tentative around Kaderin, before he realized she wasn't fragile like the women he knew in his previous human life.
I struggled to get through the first half, when Sebastian and Kaderin didn't really spend much time together and I couldn't see how they would manage to fall in love if they didn't get to know each other.
I loved the scene when Sebastian was turned on by the highly intellectual discussion of time paradox with Kaderin, that she could hold her own.
Of course, I love the interactions between Kaderin and her Valkyrie sisters, and Sebastian and his brother.
She didn't realize that there were good vampires who fought the Horde.Sebastian is a very loving character, but also a formidable warrior.
It turns out that Kaderin the Coldhearted is Sebastian's Bride.He is in love and lust.
However, seeing the way that Sebastian wins her over, and also how she is so tortured about the loss of her sisters, helped me to open my heart to Kaderin.
How does Kresley Cole do it???
BOOK.
this series is so good that if you asked me to pick a favorite character, I simply can't.
Everyone, and I mean EVERYONE, brings to the table that special something to make this series as entertaining and as fabulous as it is!
I find myself LOST in this magical world filled with these fascinating creatures that Kresley created.
The things they battle.
LOVE LOVE LOVE everything about this series/author!
As someone who's never gravitated towards fantasy/paranormal genre, I simply can't get enough of this series.
Off I go onto book four ...Cheers!
4 "Headboard Banging Stars" Sebastian Wroth, he had me at gray eyes *sighs*Sebastian was once a fierce warrior. But as he lay dying from wounds, his brother turned him into a Vampire against his will. Sebastian hates himself and his brother for turning him into this monster. He lives as a vampire, yet his heart doesn't beat, he doesn't need to breath, and his useless cock doesn't even get hard. Sebastian never ventures into the outside world. He merely exists, forcing blood, purchased from a but
But as he lay dying from wounds, his brother turned him into a Vampire against his will.
He lives as a vampire, yet his heart doesn't beat, he doesn't need to breath, and his useless cock doesn't even get hard.
So when a fierce Valkyrie enters his castle and declares that she is there to kill him, he is happy to end this misery of an existence.
She must be his Bride!!!Kaderin the Cold HeartedKaderin was once a triplet, but lost her two sisters in a great battle against vampires.
She became an emotionless shell that only existed to slay vampires.
I didn't have any fetish boxes checked this time, but it's okay.
I don't even mind that there's about a billion types of immortals in these books like I usually would (kitchen sink writing generally bugs me because it muddies the rules of a world/universe).
Kaderin had never understood Myst's particular dislike of them.
Now Kaderin knew Myst was right - they were a bunch of little hookers.
Kaderin and Sebastian were an unconventional couple.
Seeing these two characters head-butt each other (literally) all over the world in a race to collect items in an immortal scavenger hunt was a bloody (again, literally) good time.
Sebastian was meant to call her his own. The good and the bad. She’d been made for him, and he for her.    4.5stars - I loved this book!!  There was a reason that would completely explain why she couldn’t hurt him. But she refused to entertain it—couldn’t. If she did, life as she knew it was over...   Strong heroines are a favorite of mine, and I just loved Kaderin the Cold Hearted. When she lost her beloved sisters’ centuries ago to a vampire attack, a gracious gift from an unknown source too
I loved that he believed in using his brain and his muscles when it came to fighting and the fact that he was a bit of a scholar – that was very sexy ;-) Since turned into a vampire against his will, Sebastian has been slowly losing himself, hoping to end the vampire life he despises, until he meets Kaderin, the valkyrie assassin meant to kill him, his Bride.
She made his body come to life and he made her feel, but it still took time for them to fall in love which felt more realistic.
And although I tried to stop reading many times, I just couldn’t put the book down for more than twenty minutes.
But this time, the vampire doesn’t cause her heart to break yet again.
Instead, he causes her to feel.I have to mention how adorable Sebastian is when his still heart beats for the first time in the presence of Kaderin.
She is strong and independent and I think Cole makes their love develop at a reasonable pace.
And in their efforts, Kaderin learns to trust someone else with her feelings and Bastian learns that love is the one thing that is worth living for.
At any rate, I found Kresley Cole’s version of the Amazing Race (Hie) to be quite ingenious; I thought that the relationship between Sebastian & Kaderin was better developed, and I liked the heroine more than Emmaline.The Lore’s attention shifted to vampires in NO REST FOR THE WICKED, and although the author didn’t forge a new path where this supe was concerned, I appreciated all of the little details that were conveyed.
I’d have paid good money to be in the studio when he recorded that!NO REST FOR THE WICKED will light a fire in your belly; time to throw another Cole / Petkoff log on!
2 starsFor some reason, my earlier review was deleted.
I am sure I did something wrong while editing shelves, or something like that.
Suffice to say: I despised this heroine, Kaderin.
There was no way to enjoy the book because I disliked her so much.
On the other hand, I LOVED the hero, Sebastian.
He had only one moment of meanness, and honestly, I kinda couldn't blame him; he was dealing with Kaderin.
I didn't believe in this couple's "love" at all.Side note: At the moment, this heroine is one of only 5 that are on my heroine-i-hated shelf.
That is out of 571 books rated/reviewed.
1.5 stars“She said that... in the competition, before the next full moon... you’re going to... die.”Read for my full moon Halloween square. Was missing the fun addicting candy feel from the first. I don't think the valkyrie humor or personalities gels with mine. I was annoyed with the heroine and bored with the hero. I'm going to take a break from the series but I've got a lot of Halloween bingo squares to fill, so I could be back trying soon.
As Ally so nicely pointed it out in of my status updates for this book, Kaderin makes women look like manipulative idiots.
This is the woman everybody fears - well - because she has won the Treasure Hunt for the past thousand years.
Sebastian who is blooded by her appearance in the first chapter of the book, thus marking her as his Bride, tries everything and anything to help her.
What kind of a woman do you think I am?" Well, I hate to break it to you, Kaderin, you're the kind of woman who uses Sebastian's lust to manipulate him into helping you and you're okay with it.
Story Rating 5 starsCharacter Rating 5 starsRomance Rating 4 starsImagination 5 starsHeat Level 3.5 starsOverall Rating 5 starsFavorite Character, SebastianI have a feeling that I'll be repeating this in every review I write on this series.
The characters are spectacular and along with the story just suck you in.
So yep the love scenes were YUMMY and well done.You know this series is a good one for me because YEP I just read book's 1&2 back to back and am now going on to book 3 Wicked Deeds on a Winter's Night.
I'm gearing up for some HOT Wolf loving.
The Talisman's Hie begins (sort of an immortal Amazing Race), and we see all of the scavenger hunt-like obstacles, we also see the set-up for the next book in the series Wicked Deeds on a Winter's Night.
The Valkyrie Kaderin meets a vampire named Sebastian Wroth, brother of Nikolai Wroth from The Warlord Wants Forever.
During times like this, Kaderin was expected to be ridding vampires from the earth, not riding them." best quote from the book :D (thanks Annie)Sebastian enters the Hie to win the prize for Kaderin, but she is the reigning champ, so will she accept his help?
Kaderin is a valkyrie and she's been "cursed" with not being able to feel for a thousand years, since the death of her sisters, who were killed by a vampire.
She is tough (as all valkyrie are), loves and lives for killing vampires and for the Hie (like the Amazing Race).
Kaderin always enters (and wins) this race and this year is no different.
And he will do anything to have her, protect her, cherish her, and live eternity with her.While Kaderin has to compete in the Hie, Sebastian enters as well, with the intention of wining for her.
I really did hold out for a loooooonnnnnggggg time with this series.
You'd be amazed at how many conversations can lead back to this series.
And now I'm all...Again, I liked both of these characters but didn't lurve them.
Surprising me is not a regular occurrence at Casa de Cupcake and I tend to get a lil excite when that happens.
KC has another fan.I really would like for the female leads to not be so 'I'm not that kind of girl' when they totally are that kind of girl.
There are 15 more of these suckers surely one will have a door blowing off dude, right?
If you like romance, sizzling moments and lots of humor, you're good with the Immortal After Dark series.
In this third installment we see what happens when reluctant vampire Sebastian Wroth discovers that Valkyrie vampire-assassin Kaderin the Cold Hearted is his fated Bride.
And she is one tough cookie...What I liked most was that the instant attraction between the hero and heroine wasn't confused with love.
It slowly evolves through out the book and both Sebastian and Kaderin have their own demons to battle before falling into each other's arms.I loved the Valkyries.
Reread Review August 2, 20174 1/2 "Ultimate Scavenger Hunt" Stars!Well first off, that original review is just stellar now is it not!?😲Unfortunately this one won't be much better.
They played the ultimate cat and mouse game.
Question was, who was the cat and who was the mouse?
The scavenger hunt was fun; they were both dealing with some emotional family issues; and they were both a little insecure in their own ways.
In a good way!
Happy reading!Original Review May 2013Original rating 4 starsThis was good too.
I feel really bad for Bowen though so Ima read his story next.
The book had everything it needed: mind-blowing action, an amazing story, touching moments and hot love scenes.
I’m really impressed.Now, what I loved about the story was the dynamics of it.
Yes, I prefer something to catch my attention and keep it for at least 60% of the book.
The Amazing-Race-like competition was a very good idea; I guess this is what made the whole book so great.The characters were also nice.
I guess she wasn’t made for loving (except by poor Sebastian) so there was no surprise when I wanted to choke her to death.
Enjoyable but a little slow. Not the story so much as the romance part. I don't know if slow is the right word. There was just something that felt like it took forever!I totally loved Sebastian though. Loved him.I do have to admit that a lot of my focus was spent on Bowen. I am beside myself in horror over what he went through in this book. Appalled even. My heart aches for him. Yeah, his book is next.
The cake is really worth the bake..
wow!
Just wow!The writing style of KC is just superb.
Its like I'm enthralled with every page, time seems to elude me and there was never a dull moment..
I am so hooked!This book is just so hundred percent beautiful.
Damn!
Im getting frustrated again with myself for not reading this series sooner..
I'm so confident the following books will get better and better sans reading the blurb, reviews, and the like..
Sebastian Wroth, you're what dreams are made of.
hihi!Off to book 4
5 "I Love A Gentleman" Stars “The mind was capable of unimaginable feats if one were strong enough to believethem possible.”  Kaderin has been "blessed" to feel nothing after the sorrow that crippled her when she unintentionally caused the death of her two sisters. She has become the perfect killing machine, unemotional, cold, precise. All this changes the moment she sets eyes on Sebastian Wroth, a vampire of all beings.Sebastian Wroth is ready to die. He never wanted to become a vampire and the
That until he realises that this woman is his Bride and just may give him a reason to want to live.Sebastian will pursue Kaderin until she falls, he will enter a deadly competition for her, he will fight for her.
The moment her feelings are back she returns to her previous "love to live" state.
She is fearless and fights her own battles, but she isn't too proud to ask for help when she needs it(something that I always like in my characters because stubbornness in the face of death seems idiotic).
