https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/534415.Dragons_of_Summer_Flame
I was so upset by what happened to my beloved Dragonlance characters that I shaved my head and attacked someone's car with an umbrella.
A disappointing and unmemorable add-on to the original trilogy, moving on to the next generation.
This is a good ending to the main characters' stories.
In this novel, we have Caramon, Tanis, Raistlin, Tas, and even Flint and Sturm.
Tas, as usual, plays a major role even though nobody ever expects him to.The one part of this book that really bothered me is (view spoiler)[Tanis's death.
Other than that, the book is good, but because most of the major characters are new, I didn't feel as invested in them.
I still wanted to know what would happen in the plot, and I'm glad I read the book because it's a good bridge story to The Age of Mortals.
I saw another reviewer suggest that this book was written "to nuke" the world they had created.
They spent 300+ pages abusing their characters, even ones who really should have been well past abuse, and ripping what made their world unique to pieces.If you loved the Chronicles or Legends, just don't read this.
If your favorite character was a certain hour glassed eyed mage, then please, by the love of all that is good and holy, put the book back on the shelf and pick up your old copy of Time of the Twins and re-read that.
I was not a big fan of this series. I think it was just Wizards of the Coast looking for money, but that's just me. Heck, maybe I even got the dates wrong and Wizards wasn't in charge yet, but gosh darn, you'll do better reading some of the 80s Dragonlance books...you know this.
This is one of those books that I've enjoyed so much, that I feel the need to return to it every few years are so.
A few even said that Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman should have left them alone after the Chronicles and let the characters enjoy the ending that they deserved.
Not everyone enjoys realism in there books, but I do.
Tanis Half-elven for an example, in the chronicles I connected with his character so much as I was growing up.
But now as I'm older, I enjoy other characters in the Chronicles a bit more.
Some of those reviews even match the ones on this book.
When I was a kid, I read the original trilogy multiple times and loved them.
In fact, those three original "Dragons of -" books were some of my all time favorite fantasy reads.
I was so surprised that I immediately listened to the audio-book because I couldn't believe I missed it when I was younger.
I listed to the book and did not like it.
I fully plan on purchasing the paperbacks of the original 3, but I don't think I will purchase this one.On a "slightly" positive note, there were things that I did like about the story.
Our beloved characters were stripped of their dignity and, in many cases, their lives in the most demoting ways imaginable.
I agree with Wyrmia Bradley when she says ‘I was so upset by what happened to my beloved Dragonlance characters that I shaved my head and attacked someone's car with an umbrella.’The authors really messed up on this one.
A writer should never explain the end before the middle, which they did this time by killing our beloved characters and now going backward to tell stories of the in-between times of their lives even before Kitiara gets deservedly knocked off.
Overall: I felt disgusted with this story in comparison to the earlier (excellent) books.
This was kind of a weird one. I thoroughly enjoyed the Chronicles trilogy as a kid, but remember being surprised to see that TSR had published a fourth installment to the series (this was a decade after book #3 first came out). Taking place many years after the Chronicles books, Dragons of Summer Flame brings back the beloved characters from the trilogy and...well, no spoilers, but it gets a little grim at times. Weis & Hickman are still able to tell a fun tale, but this wasn't quite up to the caliber of the first three books. 3 stars.
Not because it’s literary genius laden with complexities and twists, but because the characters are carved out with so much heart that you cannot misunderstand them. 4 stars just because it was such an enjoyable, light read, like the escape it should be for fantastical writings. It made me wish that someone would make a movie out of it.
The end of a grand adventure. I should have been the redhead.
And that breaking sets the destruction of the world in motion, which can only be thwarted by the good and the evil gods, along with their followers on the world they created, joining forces to combat Chaos.Overall it's better than the previous ones.
By killing off the older generation of their characters, they now focus more on characters the pair created after gaining more experience at writing, so they're better formed, and more enjoyable to read about.Some of it doesn't make sense, like the incredible, disastrous summer actually begins before the event that sets destruction in motion, so no idea what that actually has to do with anything.There's still lots of inconsistencies, in particular Usha's adopted race, the Irda.
Dragons of Summer Flame continues on from the previous book in the series and at the same time weaves further threads connecting them to the earlier Dragonlance books with many of the characters returning though somewhat more aged or popping over from other realms when you least expect them!
:DThe odds throughout the book are set at a extremely high level with the story very clearly putting its cards on the table and having the band of extended heroes constantly placed in different racy situations at the same time making it clear that things are already going south more than in any previous book!
This will be my same review for all 7 books in the original double-trilogy (plus the 7th add on years later).There are few D&D novelizations out there that are really worth reading.
Only two series have I loved, and the original 6 (became 7) "Dragonlance" novels are one of those great series.
But getting past these small issues, the story eventually became *exactly* what a good D&D story should be -- a *PARTY* of mixed races and classes, each with their own strengths and weaknesses, on an adventure where each party member has a time to shine.
There was adventure, love stories, human frailty, power struggles, etc.
I read this book about 20 years ago and haven't since, but I've been re-reading all of the core Dragonlance books and this was next after the Chronicles, Legends and Lost Chronicles trilogies.It's nice to continue the saga of the Dragonlance characters, even if this book is mostly fan service.
Although if they were to make a movie, I think this book would be a great starting point simply because Usha is a character where the audience can see the eyes of the world through because everything is new to her as is the audience.
Most annoyingly I read this book out of sequence [assuming it came next after 'Dragons of Spring Dawning' - it doesn't there's another book in between :(].
However I was already familiar with the characters - and the world of Krynn is always enticing, so I was totally engrossed by the time I'd turned the first few pages.
I am now going to read the book I missed out - 'The Second Generation' and will follow the recommended reading order from now on!I highly recommend this series to lovers of the 'high fantasy' or 'swords and sorcery' genre.
Isto faz muito mais sentido depois de ler o livro e chegar a uma conclusão sobre ele: é dispensável.Tracy e Laura Hickman são o casal responsável pela criação do universo de Dragonlance, inspirado pelo seu hobby, o RPG Dungeons & Dragons.
Para já, voltemos ao Dragões de uma Chama de Verão, publicado 10 anos depois da trilogia original, em 1995.O enredo deste livro passa-se muitos anos depois, tendo por protagonistas os descendentes dos personagens principais dos volumes anteriores.
Preferia não o ter lido de todo.Além de ser uma leitura morosa e desgastante, os personagens dos livros anteriores não agiam exactamente como eles mesmos… Em D&D há um conceito essencial, que é agir in character, em personagem.
If you haven't had a chance to read any of the DragonLance Saga books I highly suggest picking up a few.
They are marvelous reading and this one Dragons of Summer Flame by Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman is one of the best because it ties so many of the others together for me.
I truly enjoy this series and rank it along with Tolkiens greats for Fantasy.Though some may find it strange for adults to invest time in this type of reading I see no reason to avoid a little adventure involving dragons, knights, wizards and magic.
A bit of Fantasy never hurt anyone.
And this series is delightful!
best, most coherent story of all the books in this series that i've read (only four! including this one). it's appalling how engrossing these books are. you start out thinking, 'pssht, nerds are so gullible! who could read this tripe?' and a few hours later, you're chewing your nails off, hoping the annoying kender doesn't die. or maybe that's just me. hi goodreads, my name is trina and i am a huge nerd.
I probably should not have read/listened this book right after original trilogy, but as some sources named this as a sequel then I did not mind. Lot of time has passed and many new characters with very little background information to deal from beginning, but amazingly it did not matter in this book as tempo is passable and adventures constant. What I still cannot comprehend is writing style in which author just skips over some scenes and does little explanation afterwards what happened.
This was probably the best one of the second generation but it just doesn't compete with the adventures of tanis and Flint.
It deserves five, but I missed the old gang too much.Plus, having a main character named Palin in this day and age... -1 star for lack of vision into the future, Weis and Hickman.
SOOOOOOOOOO Good, definatley pick it up, buy it and read it. I enjoyed it so much. Slightly seperated from the Chronicles time frame however, it was extremely good and is a definite read.
I liked the book,but I was expecting more.It didn't get interesting until at least the half-way point.To me,the first half of the book was slow.
This book was kind of pointless. There were some nice moments, but overall there was really no need for this story to exist.
Ah memories. My first fantasy series (other than Tolkien), and man did it suck me in to the fantasy genre. An easy read- I would almost call it mansmut. Classic, reccomended.
Angry at having been imprisoned for so long, Chaos decides he will punish all his children by destroying the world of Krynn, pulling it back into the void from whence it came.
Every nation, every race, they must all put aside their differences and work together or the entire world will be erased from existence.I've been enjoying reading the Dragonlance series ever since I picked up Dragons of Autumn Twilight.
I did enjoy reading about how many of the characters I had spent the last few books reading about moved on with their lives.
Too much background from the original six volumes is needed, and the book just isn't worth reading on its own anyhow.I know others pine for more DragonLance books, and this shows that their voices were heard, but it really did not add much to the overall story.
The main characters Steel and Palin are okay, but they are just like their progenitors (and Uncle), and Usha doesn't add much to the story one way or the other.I have looked for other books in this saga worth reading, but the pickings are slim.
I read the original three-book Dragonlance Chronicles when they first came out decades ago -- back when having a fantasy book series be published and tie directly to a series of AD&D modules was a whole new way of doing business.
Despite what other reviewers have said re: the pace, I thought this book flowed pretty well cover-to-cover.
No. My to-read pile of books is too tall to have a slew of books on Ansalon get head-of-the-line privileges.But if all you've read is the original trilogy and little-to-nothing else in the Dragonlance world, this is a very worthwhile read.
This book relies heavily on several stories from the "Tales" trilogy of short stories, which were repackaged into another book for convenience.
If you haven't read those 5 short stories, this book will have a number of primary characters with backstory that is only alluded to.
Also, even though my copy of the book claims to be "Chronicles book 4," and does require knowledge of those books for backstory, it doesn't follow along the Chronicles storyline.The start of this book feels like it cherry-picked various short story characters.
