https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574133.The_War_Romance_of_the_Salvation_Army
This is not a typical Grace Livingston Hill "romance". In the beginning, I kept wondering when we were going to meet our heroine and hero. Eventually, I realized that the "romance" was between the U.S. Army and the Salvation Army, not two people. Once I realized that, I thoroughly enjoyed hearing the true stories of the War, great, inspirational stories. This book is long, but you don't have to read it all at once to enjoy. If you are looking for a regular romance book, this is not the one to read.
Cindy and Leah saw that I was reading this.
Both didn't finish it.
It took me months, but I finished!
I did't know that the Salvation Army gave out doughnuts, coffee, and hot chocolate to the troops during World War I.
They also sewed on buttons, went to graves and prayed for families on both sides!
They cooked for the troops while things were exploding all around them.
Made me wonder if I serve the others for the Lord when things are easy, or do I also go out of my way.
Jesus went out of his way for us!
This book was very hard to read.
This is an extremely detailed account of the work of the Salvation Army during WWI. I had no idea the Salvation Army had this level of involvement in the war. It seems there is a lot i don't know about the Salvation Army. It was interesting to learn more about this organization. I wound up skimming through a lot of this, however. It is very exhaustive and monotonous. Co-written with the 4th General of the Salvation Army, Evangeline Booth, who also happens to be the daughter of the organizations founder.
I thought this would be a romance like Grace Livingston Hill's other books. (She co-wrote this with Evangeline Booth). Instead,this book talks about how the Salvation Army served the troops in France during WW1. The last chapter is filled with thank you letters from President Wilson, various military brass, and mothers.
I just couldn't get into this book, though perhaps that's because I was immature enough at the time and wanted romance, etc. But it did read a little dryly, not as much like a story or with much characterization, if I recall. I'd still like to finish it someday, though!
This is a wonderful account of the Salvation Army Lassies. I really enjoyed this and feel that I learned a great deal about what the roll of the Salvation Army was during World War I.
Amazing true history of a wonderful ministry. Couldn't put it down!
