https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22037.The_Fortunate_Pilgrim
What's more beautiful than a book that is so personal, so wistful, so poetic, where Puzo is most vulnerable showing this gentle side of himself, where he actually dared to imbibe hope in such an unabashed fashion.
With his two earlier books he remained chaste as an artist but after getting the shit pounded out of him for those endeavors, he graduated from Romanticism and became a Vegas hustler.
Then he wrote a book for money called The Godfather.
Uncut as it was, that book remains an amazing achievement in its own way.
I would recommend this book to those of you who-want to try Mario Puzo, but don't know which of his books to start with.-are interested in Italian immigrant life during the Depression.-like books about complicated family relationships.In the introduction to the book we are told that it is this book that the author himself thought was his best.
The book follows one Italian immigrant family through the Depression up to the attack on Pearl Harbor.
The life of this family felt genuine through and through, and moments of sunlight are shown too.You cannot read a book about Italians that skirts the issue of the Mafia.
There are a few things about this book that will stick with me for a long time, and one of them is the fact that when I checked it out of the library a page was still folded down.
Her daughter's surface vulgarity, American, was no match for her own, bred in the Italian bone."Lucia Santa on the return of her husband from the insane asylum:"'But alas, we cannot be eternally good, eternally generous.
Sorry Mario Puzo, I know this is your personal favorite of all the books you’ve written, for clearly sentimental reasons, but it failed to captivate me.Parts of this reminded me of Mark Helprin’s “Winter’s Tale”, another book I failed to finish.
I definitely have a sweet tooth - I used to think that drowning in a pool of chocolate wouldn’t be such a bad way to go - but when it comes to literature, I am not fond of overt sentimentality.This was Puzo’s first novel, and the man who would later become famous as the author of “The Godfather” (one of my all-time favorites) clearly learned a great deal in between writing this book and that one.
This story blows 'The Godfather' out of the water; in fact, the matriarch/protagonist Lucia Santa was the basis for the Don, himself, and she rules her family with an iron fist.
It's a quintessential American tale of coming to a new country with hopes of making a better life for yourself, but facing setback upon setback along the way -- yet this family manages to laugh and love despite it all (I'm very drawn to these sorts of stories, where I recognize a lot of my own family in the day-to-day strife of someone else's.) I devoured this book in 24 hours.
Thus The Godfather was written.Puzo said this book changed during its writing.
Eventually his insanity leaves her as a single mother a second time.The book follows this family through deaths and marriages, watching the mother raise a family in inner-city poverty until, after the children are grown, she is able to leave the poor neighborhood for a more comfortable life.The love and respect Puzo has for the mother comes through clearly, and he said that her protective instincts became part of the model for Don Corleone in The Godfather.The Puzo/narrator character comes across as an unloved child, as Puzo outlined in his original concept for the novel.
"There is a price to be paid,yet one dreams that happiness can come without the terrible payments."I have to give The Fortunate Pilgrim a clear four stars because, not only is Mario Puzo awesome (may he rest in peace), but the whole way through this novel I felt like I could completely understand the Angelucci-Corbo's and their whole familia.
This is a great view into the times when some of our great-great-great grandparents had come over trying to make a life for themselves that was worth living.

An interesting book about an Italian family, in a tough neighbourhood in New York, in the 20's.Mama Lucia is the mother of 3 sons and a daughter, in hard times.
This story shows a decade of this family, where the children grow up.
While making progress with this book I felt more and more involved with the children, and less with Lucia where she is getting older and couldn't accept the choices of her kids.A moving and compelling story about a poor Italian family, I really liked.
Interesting aspect as well.
He said that whenever the Godfather spoke he heard his mother’s voice, the wisdom, ruthlessness, and the undying love for her family and for life.
I can connect to the story because of the cultural traditions and strength of his mother, the backbone that she had to raise all her children in a much different country than where she grew up.
The story of Angeluzzi-Corbo family reads like a movie.This book definitely speaks to Godfather fans.
The message in Puzo’s story is what we all want here are opportunity, and a chance at happiness.
But unlike The Godfather, The Last Don and many of Puzo’s legendary novels centred around men, this book is about an uneducated, peasant woman, Lucia Santa, plonked into New York’s Hell’s Kitchen from Italy.
Lucia Santa, has the strength of several men, ruling her family with an iron fist through the Depression and War. Like so many women past and present around the world, she can’t afford to succumb to self-pity and has no choice than to work hard to protect and nurture her brood in order to survive.
One by one, Puzo allows us into the lives of the older children, tantalising glimpses of other families on the street and takes us on a journey of struggle, despair, and joy until the second World War.
Realistic touching family drama.I loved The Godfather and this book is a favorite as well.
This is a story of an Italian family living in poverty and how they struggled through.
It's not just about family members prevailing through tragedy, but it's also each member finding a role in life.
It's an inspiring tale of a family in the Depression era and of family stife and love, sacrifice and pain.
Looking at the family's struggle from today's wealth it is hard to comprehend a family never knowing when their next meal is going to come from.
This book gives an inside look at an Italian family struggling in Hell's Kitchen (NYC) in the two decades before World War II. Some have said it is the prequel to the Godfather books, although not directly. Mario Puzo took great care in every sentence he wrote and his work reflects those efforts. This wonderful story was a great read and I highly recommend it.
Beautifully, honestly, and skillfully written. A wonderfully heart-wrenching tail of a first generation, widowed matriarch.
Книгата е определяна от самия Пузо като най-добрия му роман и въпреки че за мен това ще си остане „Умират глупаците“, тази книга е прелестно изкуство.
Марио Пузо за пореден път изгражда превъзходно своите герои и макар човек често да е изпълнен с противоречия към различните образи, няма как да не открие нещо от себе си в тях и малко или много да ги обикне или намрази.
Липсата на точно определено действие и посока , мога да си представя, би могла да подразни много от читателите, но за мен Пузо описва реалния свят.
The author is best know for the Godfather series; however, Puzo considers this his favorite book.
Puzo writes that this is a portrait of his family life, and the matriarch is based on his mother.I have to say the book is very readable, but few of the characters were likeable, including Lucia Santa, the matriarch.
When he was ready to return home, she refused to authorize it and so he died in the institution.
If you want to know where the book took place, visit the High Line in New York around the Hudson Yards.
There is not much plot, other than tracing the family life of Lucia Santa, from the time she left Italy as a young woman, to the time she was an old lady with six children, and several grandchildren.
Most of the book takes place in a poor, working-class Italian neighborhood on the Lower Westside of New York City, from pre-Depression to WWII.
I enjoyed the descriptions of life in those days.
I enjoyed the story of Lucia Santa’s struggle to help her family stay alive and become more stable economically and socially.
I can see why Puzo considered this his best work; he writes on a topic close to his own heart.
Los esfuerzos de 'a Mamm por su familia para sacarla adelante, todas las decisiones difíciles que tomó y su habilidad para mantenerse firme en los momentos más difíciles -claro aunque a veces caía, como todos- es algo que te llega al cuor.Llega incluso a hacerte reflexionar sobre la vida, las decisiones que hay que tomar; y te hace pensar: ¿estoy siendo justo con 'a mia mamma y con mi familia?Nos muestra la cultura y los valores de las familias del sur de Italia para conocer su cultura un poco mejor.Y yo, colombiano, creo que nuestras culturas no son tan diferentes.
Same story as the Godfather....sort of. Acknowledges the role of the Italian woman.
I'm not sure why this Puzo 'heartfelt' work sold so poorly and the Godfather became all the rage, but I just couldn't muscle up any connection with this awful, pitiful, spider-like family - there's nearly nothing admirable about them.
For all that Lucia Santa is constantly correcting and smacking and calling her children 'animales', that's exactly how they live - for survival, and nearly nothing more.
Probably the most evocative part comes down to Lucia Santa's heartfelt cry at the 10th Avenue table, that she wanted all of her blessings without suffering or judgment.
Cuộc sống khó khăn vẫn đeo đẳng theo bà mãi, bà phải trở thành trụ cột để nuôi dạy 6 đứa con nên người thay hai người cha của chúng, người thì chết vì tai nạn lao động, người thì chết khi hóa điên dại.
Cuốn truyện đi sâu vào khai thác tâm lý nhân vật, xen lẫn cả những bài học rất đời: Liệu rằng chỉ sống lương thiện, không vi phạm pháp luật đã mang lại cuộc sống tốt đẹp?
Liệu cái chết là chủ động hay là tai nạn?Gì thì gì, tác giả để kết thúc câu chuyện khá có hậu.
I loved this audiobook, and feel that I have now personally lived in the New York tenements with Italian immigrants during the Depression.
I can taste the olive oil, feel the overcrowded rooms, smell the ironing and the cooking on the stove, see the faces of the children and the crones that make up the daily life of a matriarch in such a setting.
That may be so, but it is also the timeless story of the experience of immigration, the ever-present clash of cultures in the everyday things like food, language, customs, assumptions, and the experience of a powerful archetypal Italian mother.
Like pretty much the rest of the world, I have seen the Godfather movies multiple times, but this is the first book written by Mario Puzo that I've read.
It was beautifully written, and clearly material close to Mr. Puzo's heart.
It follows their story for a span of about 40 years.Mario Puzo's talent for descriptive writing almost made me smell the panetteria, the freight cars and the hot July streets.
From what I understand, this was Mario Puzo's second book, and didn't do nearly as well as The Godfather.
I have a new admiration and respect for Mario Puzo after reading this book.
In some ways, the book is little more than a familial narrative with only the timeline of life serving as its plot.
And yet, the way Puzo lays bare the shortcomings of this family, tempers their triumphs, describes inter-family relationships, all while recreating the New York of long ago, you will not miss the everyday plotlines found in most other books or stories.
However, unlike a journal, the Fortunate Pilgrim was written so beautifully with its details of its characters and New York settings that the scenes Puzo wrote almost felt like my own personal memories.
Loved the book
The first assigned reading that I really sped through and wanted to read.
An Italian family is assimilating to the United States (well, most of them).
Lucia Santa, the protagonist and mother, stays true to her Italian ways.
All she wants is the American Dream.
In the end, she achieves the American Dream, but with a price.
In order to achieve the American Dream, one must become accustomed to their ways, which is cruel and uses deceit to get there.
Some are willing to pay the price and others are not.
They are stuck in their own Italian/American world.
It has been years since I read The Godfather, the book that made Mario Puzo famous.
If you enjoyed The Godfather, you should check out this book about the struggles of an Italian immigrant family who lived in The West side of New York, or Hell's Kitchen.
The heroine, Lucia Santa, is said to have been inspired by Puzo's own mother.
He has such a gift of so vividly describing characters and place, that the reader is transported there, and one feels that he/she knows this family intimately.A story both heartbreaking and compelling, it could be the story of any immigrant family during the time from the early 1920s through the outbreak of World War II.
He also thought it was going make him famous...that wouldn't come for another 5 years when he published his third novel, "The Godfather."Thoroughly enjoyed this book which he intended to be about a young Italian writer but ended up being about an immigrant Italian matriarch and her family in an Upper West Side tenement beginning in 1928 and running into World War II.
The intervening story is full of well-developed characters, tragedy, comedy, economic survival and the clash of Old World & American values.This is my first Puzo novel and the description I read somewhere that it's a mix of Proust and pulp seems apt.
Very interesting history of an Italian women who arrived in Brooklyn in 1828, to start a family and escape poverty in her own country of Italy.
She continued to surrender to her husband's dominance, have his children, scrounge for food and bargain for necessities.
Cook and clean and care for the family without a support system.
Her first husband dies on the job before the baby is born.
She marries again to find that he he has 2 personalities.
She learns to get by on their  income her children can bring in, as well as doing small tasks for others.
A revealing background of family and different personalities involved.
