https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/83321.Irrational_Man
Quite a rewarding experience.Having also participated in the arts and music and the study of aesthetics for many years, I revisited Barrett's book with an eye to what he has to say about existentialism's connection to modern art.
Barrett sees modern art as needle number one and existentialism as needle number two sticking and jabbing and pricking and poking people to wake up to the depths of their own human experience.
No doubt about it - reflecting and living one's life from one's spiritual and artistic depth is a great challenge in our brave new computerized world.
This review is about the book by William Barrett, not the 2015 movie by Woody Allen.Wiki:Irrational Man: A Study In Existential Philosophy is a 1958 book by philosopher William Barrett, in which Barrett explains the philosophical background of existentialism and provides a discussion of several major existentialist thinkers, including Søren Kierkegaard, Friedrich Nietzsche, Martin Heidegger, and Jean-Paul Sartre.
Irrational Man helped to introduce existentialism to the English speaking world and has been identified as one of the most useful books that discuss the subject, but Barrett has also been criticized for endorsing irrationality and for giving a distorted and misleading account of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel.Well I know I read a good part of this book, there's a fair amount of underlining in it.
Hence, I'm reinstating the following unfinished and astray review that was rather sourly wiped-away the week past, with the recognition that I've depleted myself of the will and energy to pen anything further about Barrett's brilliant book.I know that I am unusual in how I come to assess the merits of a work of philosophy, especially one such as Irrational Man, which puts a modern philosophical configuration under the expository microscope in order to both assess and critique the contributory intellections of its dominant exponents as well as trace its lineage through the long diachronic chain of Western thought, all towards determining how it evolved into its existent form and what, in particular, were the primary influences involved in nurturing its philosophical roots such that the entirety could bloom so fruitfully when historical conditions were propitious.
Despite all the new appliances and white picket fences, there was much talk of alienation, nihilism and nothingness.While at times this context seems a little dated now, the body of the book is still highly relevant to the cultural and philosophical underpinnings of this century.To Be or Not to Be, That is ExistenceThe book made me think a lot about the word "Being".I was going to have to get my head around it soon, anyway, when I read some Heidegger and Sartre, both of whom are discussed in the book.The word "Being" in English is obviously derived from the verb "to be."For a verb that is almost the building block of our entire language, it has some weird characteristics.For example, when you conjugate it in the present tense, the word "be" doesn't appear at all.
That doesn't mean that existentialism and belief in a higher being are incompatible - Kierkegaard belies this - but regardless of belief system, the existentialist sees that there is an inevitable end to existence as we know it.
The meaning of death is precisely its revelation of this value.In section three, Barrett provides an overview of the four pillar-figures of existentialism: Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger, and Sartres.
And so any man who chooses or is forced to choose decisively - for a lifetime, and therefore for eternity since only one life is given us - experiences his own existence as something beyond the mirror of thought.
One of the most enjoyable and rewarding books on philosophy I have ever read. Next to Thousand Plateaus: Capitalism and Schizophrenia a most important book still for our time.
This is the book that introduced much of the english-speaking world (not just the academy) to Existentialism in detail.It is 11 Chapters divided into four parts, one on the present (1958) state of existentialism, the sources of existentialism in the "western tradition", 4 Existentialist that William Barrett feel are the most significant, and an epilogue juxtaposing the significance of the philosophy in response to the Cold War. I will be focusing the majority of the review on The Existentialist part but I do want to give a brief summary about the book before it.
They were generally excellent.Existential philosophy confronts real-life issues, such as the prospect of death, anxiety and (what long ago seemed to be an obvious issue to me, though I lacked the brainpower to isolate and express it) the limits of rationality as a guide to life.Anyway, Existentialism is a branch of philosophy (though some wouldn't name it thus) that I hope to do a lot more reading in.
Like me.Not looking for an Answer.
Just stimulatin' conversation.
This book blew me away as I read it all in hour after hour one hot June night in Boston. I underlined the Heidegger chapter so thick, the friend I borrowed it from wouldn't hear of me giving it back. A special moment in my personal reading history.
This book was assigned reading for Howard Burkle's Philosophy 215 class, "Existentialism", at Grinnell College.
It was also the first class I ever took with him and a reason I switched majors from History to Religious Studies, the new department he chaired.Although I had read a good deal of Camus, both fiction and non-fiction; of Nietzsche and of Sartre, I really didn't know much about existentialism approached philosophically.
My high school hadn't offered anything in the field whatsoever except as mentioned in history classes and such little background as I'd obtained on my own was primarily political philosophy or, as in the case of Nietzsche, philosophy which I'd read from the perspective of psychology.
This book is probably the best introduction to existentialism that I've ever read.
Barrett presents the central ideas in a clear manner which are easy to grasp for someone who's relatively new to philosophy and existentialism.
It was a book I couldn't put down, suddenly everything I had wanted explaining about existentialism was being explained in a clear, easy to grasp manner.
The book is a bit dated (it's written about 10 years after the Second World War & Sartre was still alive when it was written) but you can see why existentialism was infiltrating so many cultures.Well worth the read for all those who'd like to know about one of the major philosophical school of the Twentieth Century.
What would it mean to exist without context? Meaning would be forever under-determined. Multiple interpretations of the same event would be possible. It would also be so much harder to understand what we see (or read). Barrett argues that modern man lives without context, and he argues that contemporary literature and philosophy prove it.It was marketed as the finest definition of Existentialism ever written. I don't know about that, but it is the best I have ever read.
This book is good and bad. Good because it explains lots of things. Bad becuase it mentions a ludicrous amount of books, that I want to read. Maybe that's what makes it good. Was going to read Being and Time. But now I will read something completely different.
History has never allowed man to return to the past in any total sense.
(p.26)August 1914 is the axial date in modern Western history and once past it, we are directly confronted with the present day world.
(p.84) For man to enter history as the rational animal, it was necessary for him to be convinced that the objects of his reasoning, the Ideas, were more real than his own intellectual person or the particular objects that made up the world.
William Barrett comes off as the kind of guy you would like to have as your introductory philosophy professor, able to explain elusive concepts in a clear (yet not condescending) manner, summarizing such massive works of thought as Aquinas's Summa Theologica, Kierkegaard's Either/Or, Heidegger's Being and Time, and Sartre's Being and Nothingness.While his historical survey is impressive, his treatment of the four major existentialist figures that he presents - Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger, and Sartre - is biased.
Also, I know the gender criticisms brought against him are serious, but, in a way, I feel that it is judging him ex post facto.
Hay parámetros, cierto, pero estos parámetros fueron especificados por un acuerdo o precepto que tiene mucho tiempo de existir.En fin, esta reseña no es para discutir puntos de vista filosóficos (Team Sartre) si no para hablar del libro, el cuál está muy completo y si bien ataca a los autores, también habla bien de ellos, en un balance donde trata de exponer lo bueno, lo malo y lo que va enmedio de eso.
Punto especial para Dostoyevsky, que no me esperaba encontrar en este libro, cuando menos no tan profundo y mencionado en tantas partes.Cierro ka reseña escribiendo "Kierkegaard", solo porque me gusta como suena.Kierkegaard...
A lively, coherent, and--most importantly--comprehensible overview of Existential philosophy.
I've read almost nothing by the four biggies Barrett discusses in detail (Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger, Sartre) so I can't comment on the accuracy of his assertions: if they're near the mark, I'd raise the rating to five stars.
Moreover, Barrett locates Existentialism--both as presented by each of the Big Four, and more broadly--within the context of specific earlier writers/thinkers and the major themes and concerns of European/Mediterranean philosophy generally.
If, as he asserts, Existentialism has a corrective role to play in that environment, it had better get going!
Love this book. A very rich history of existentialist philosophy, and the reasons why existentialism emerges in our present era. Barrett talks about various topics, such as art and religion, and relates it to his exegesis of existentialism. Barrett himself is a stylistic writer, and very philosophical, and that makes this text interesting. While critical of Sartre and not critical enough of Heidegger, I find this book to be very knowledgeable and worth reading. Highly recommended.
A good introduction and analysis of existential philosophy and the continuing war between the rational and the irrational man.
Old as this book is, it is still one of the best introductions to Existential Philosophy. Barrett knew many of the twetieth century existentialists and understood their philosophy quite clearly.
A brief synopsis of this book sets out a general picture of existential philosophy and refutes the falsification that Sarter's thought is attributed mainly and solely to existential digging.
In fact, existential philosophy has its roots in different traditions and countries, there have been jews, catholics, protestants, atheists existentialists.
In Russia, the father Dostoyevsky has sprung the roots in the thoughts of Berdyaev and Shedtov, in Germany, it's attributed to Heidegger and Jaspers keen on philosophy of Nietzsche and Kierkegaard.
Such a generalisation was prompted largely by the identification of existential philosophy with the school of Sartre'.
But there were many lessons to be learnt and the book achieved for me what I really needed: an overview of existentialism and the works of Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger, and Sartre all in one place.
Barrett says it thus: ...anyone who wishes to meddle in politics today had better come to some prior conclusions as to what man [sic] is and what, in the end, human life is all about.
Irrationality, as opposing the classic rationalism in human, is the center theme of this book.
The two pillars are founded on Hebraism and Hellenism, the Faith and the Reason.
Here are some of the differences:(1) the ideal man of Hebraism is the man of faith (Old Testament, Book of Job, etc).
Chapter Five summarizes the Christian synthesizing of Faith and Reason.
Here is a vivid image: “In the thought of St. Thomas Aquinas, man is - to use Bernard Groethuyen’s image — really a centaur, a being divided between the natural and the theological orders.” Chapter Six uses Laputa from Gulliver’s Travels to illustrate the point of Romanticism through major literature figures and works.
Decent introduction to existential philosophy.
The prose is conversational and friendly, without the usual sour academic quality one associates with philosophy books.
The first half of the book is a lead-up to the actual discussion of the 4 main existentialist thinkers (Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger, and Sartre), and was illuminating.
The author is profoundly fascinated by Kierkegaard and Heidegger, and less enthused with Nietzsche and Sartre.
The book is shallow in its treatment, a little dumbed down, and essentially reads like what it is ; an introduction to a foreign, 'exotic' European philosophy for a mid-century (but still stupid) American audience.
A very basic introduction to existential thought which does not provide much apart from a general summary of the works of Kierkegaard, Heidegger, Nietzsche, and Sartre.
The summary of Nietzsche is not particularly thorough or informative, and Barrett's dislike of Nietzsche comes through in the writing, rather than providing a balanced account of his work.
Perhaps my bias against these sort of 'summary works' is showing and I should mention that I have read quite a lot of the author's works themselves, which may be the reason I found Barrett's writing rather dull and vacant.
Irrational Man is an introduction to the basic principles of existentialism by means of examination of some of the subjects it discusses, as well as biographies and commentary on its most prominent philosophers. Specifically discussed are Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger, and Sartre. This book shows its age a bit, and one might get the impression that the author is rather critical of Sartre simply because he is a contemporary.This is a good, short read that can open one up to the idea that man is not simply Aristotle's "rational animal"; he is also irrational, and his irrationality is no less important.

His explanation of Nietzsche's Will to Power is worth the price of the book. Definitely a great tool for introducing the main concepts and the major players of existentialist philosophy. Heidegger says, "We cannot hear the cry of Nietzsche unless we start thinking," such a great line! But what's more, the philosophical emphasis on Reason, according to Heidegger, actually serves to the detriment of thinking.
The best summary of existentialism I have read. I first read this in college in the 1960s, and have re-read it twice since and still get something out of it. The book explores several (most?) of the existential themes. In addition to providing a good overview of existentialist philosophy, the author actually succeeds in conveying some of the existential "feeling" - which is really what existentialism is about, i.e., concrete experience.
Mixed feelings about this. Not sure I feel like finishing it any longer. Too leisurely and too 1940's literary in his prose, which doesn't work (for me) in doing philosophical analysis. Others may find this more to their taste, of course.
