https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/535785.Shepherding_a_Child_s_Heart
I think rewards and punishments exist and must exist because of human failings and limitations.Tripp decries virtually every method of parenting as "unbiblical": punishments, rewards, grounding, time-outs.
In conjunction with - but not instead of - these things they do a lot of shepherding: conversation, heart guidance, and prayer; best of all, they get the kids to think about why the rules are the rules – how violation of the rules hurts other people and why they are not merely arbitrary rules.
Not only does he equate time outs as emotional child abuse and groundings as useless and ineffective, he goes so far to write that “if you fail to spank, you fail to take God’s Word seriously.” His support of this is in the few Proverbs passages that tell parents to use the “rod.” I do not have a personal problem with spanking and believe it can be used well and effectively, but I do take issue to the idea that it is the best and only biblical form of discipline.
A lot of Christians suggest this book, but it goes against the very core of Christian parenting. It sets up an adversarial relationship under the guise of Grace and Mercy.
There were several parts in this book that I agree with, and also several that I disagree with.
I really like the part about showing your children how their behavior is an overflow of their heart.However, I really didn't like the author's emphasis on using "The Rod." The author says: "If you fail to spank...you are saying that you do not love your child enough to do the painful things that God has called you to do.
All kids are different, and all parents are different, and I think it's unwise to judge someone who chooses an alternate method of discipline.
While it does have some very helpful insights and practical applications, it fell very short on expressing the need for parents to depend on God.Some of his suggestions seemed to fly directly in the face of the book's title and stated goal.
Christian parents will probably find practical applications and helpful insights, but ultimately we will not find encouragement in the gospel or very many faith-strengthening truths in this book.

But, there are a lot of really important things said in it, that a lot of parents need to hear...I read a review on Amazon, that I really appreciated.
And finally, Dr. Tripp did convict me that too much of my discipline, and my wife's, is emphasizing behavior modification and not attempting to point the heart of our children toward God. I really don't believe that if a child changes his/her behavior without a change of hear that he/she falls under the same condemnation as the Pharisees (page 5).
I don't think, however, that this approach is as universally applicable to every child as the book claims.One of the great concepts, based on the 5th Commandment: God says that honoring your father and mother will give you long life and make life well for you.
It's a mission of love to go catch our kids from the dangers that come from being outside God's protective rules for their life.Some practical advice was useful, too: don't discipline in anger, remind them that they're loved, restore the relationship.Anecdotally, I've been able to understand my toddler better and try to get to the heart of the matter.
You are saying that you do not believe the Bible…you are saying that you do not love your child enough to do the painful things that God has called you to.” He goes on to give 8 steps on “the How of Spanking.” The sixth step is to “Remove his drawers so that the spanking is not lost in the padding of his pants.” Regarding the smallest of children, he notes that, “Rebellion can be something as simple as a small child struggling against a diaper change or stiffening his body when you want him to sit on your lap.” He explains that when it comes to spanking, “you need to trust God and obey God.”*I DO believe the Bible, but I don’t believe that God commands spanking.
Wow...what to say about this book??
I disagree with about 90% of what the author teaches, and found him to be very condescending and "holier than thou" through out the whole book.
I had agreed to facilitate a lady's group study of this book over the next four month, but I have respectfully backed out and found another facilitator.
I cannot/could not in good conscious lead a class study where the author teaches that the only God-ordained discipline is spanking, time-outs are emotionally abusive to our children, and grounding does not work for teens because it only teaches them to emotionally separate themselves from their parents.
I will not recommed this book to ANYONE ever!
It doesn't shepherd their hearts to spank them - which is beating them - which is abuse.If I hit my husband to make a point, he could take me to court - but if I hit my precious little six year old, he would have no recourse.It is just so wrong.
I am strongly offended by books/people/etc.
who either come right out and say or strongly infer that it is God's will for you to hit your children- That you can't be a good "christian" without including this in your parenting.I thought we were supposed to exhibit kindness, gentleness, and self-control...
Not at all for me. Rigid, legalistic and at its worst unsympathetic. I think this book overemphasizes issues children have simply based on their cognitive and emotional limitations (ie fighting over toys = idolatry) and focuses too much on the role of parent as controlling mechanism in their child's life. I've spanked my 4 year old, we've been down that path and there IS a better way and it IS MORE effective than telling your child "God told me I have to give you the rod and I have to obey God therefore I'm spanking you to please Him".
One of the most convicting books I've ever read. Who can live up to the Lord's standard of parenting? I was all the more eager and encouraged to pursue a life of strong communication with my boys. I also was challenged anew with the vision of getting to the heart of behavior. It is a difficult, yet absolutely critical, thing!2016 UPDATE: Still terrific. Still convicting. Still one of the most important books I've read on the foundations of discipleship and parenting.
However, Tedd Tripp has thankfully filled some of the void.While this book is full of practical suggestions and examples, Tripp’s main goal is to help you get to the heart of your child.
Tripp often reminded me that the main goal of parenting is not to develop good behavior, nor to encourage skills and talents, nor to teach the proper way to make money, nor to be emotionally balanced, nor to provide a good education, etc.
Rather, the main goal of parenting is to orient him toward God while dealing with his sin nature and thereby teach him to glorify God in his life.
As an adult believer, though, I have a level of spirituality that can help me to recognize that and yet seek God for his grace and trust in his forgiveness.
While we can try to model that for our children, the reality is that until they have a personal relationship with God, they are walking in darkness and cannot understand that cycle.
I guess what I'm trying to say is this book doesn't seem appropriate for the faith development of children.
Thankfully, my children are still young and it shouldn't be too overwhelming to change the way I parent, discipline, love and shepherd my children at this point.Tripp examines specific ways to effectively parent children in infancy, childhood and the teen years.
One of the benefits to parenting by shepherding is a beautiful relationship during those much-dreaded teenage years.
This is a relationship I've only witnessed from a distance but long to have with my children.Shepherding a Child's Heart will radically alter the way you view your responsibility and opportunity as a parent.
As much as Christian parents strive to create a loving, nurturing, and respectful environment with God at its center, much of Tripp's ideas just did not seem realistic or even doable for the average parent in this day and age.
I believe you can achieve the same result without such rigid parenting.
I have no doubt that this type of parenting will create well-behaved children, but it is no guarantee that they will grow to love Christ.
Nor do I feel that a child growing up in a secular household will be doomed to a life without ever realizing the abundant love of Christ.
This book gives unrealistic expectations for parents raising children with ADHD or other learning disabilities.
He says that if your child can't sit still in church it's because you aren't doing a good job as a parent.
A much better book is "Have a New Kid by Friday" by Dr. Kevin Leman.
He understands rambunctious children being raised by imperfect parents.
The main point of Leman's book is to look at the child's attitude (heart) and respond accordingly.
The last part of the book is a list of things kids do and how to respond.
I should read this book every year to remind myself the goals of childrearing. Very biblically based look at how to approach discipline, rules, etc.
Hard to rate this one. I've never built a house, so it's hard to say how good a house-building book is. Ask me in thirty years how good this book is and I'll be able to speak with more authority. Still, it gave me a lot to think about and a lot I want to try. Tripp's trying to be Biblical and counter-cultural, and I respect that. The 'end goal' he pictures is something I want for my children. Tripp kind of strikes me as a bit of an unusual dude, though. I'd like to meet him in real life.
Straightforward and super helpful. I enjoyed reading parenting by Paul Tripp and this back to back. I feel like they actually go really well together.
There is such fear mongering going on in this book threatening both the parents and the child with spiritual death, failure to follow God's law (or this man's interpretation of it!) etc., that I just got angry a lot.
I also do not agree at all with the interpretation of "the rod" that is found in many Christian parenting philosophies.
Rather, if I chose to follow the biblical use of the rod, I would simply interpret it to say "use the parenting tools at your disposal to guide your child." Lastly, the author rejects almost every other method of parenting either than talking to your child and spanking them.
Tripp is moving the reader beyond behavior change to heart change.Second, Tripp lays out a few hard to hear truths.
It is hard to hear that you child is a sinner and that he/she needs a Savior.
Combine that with the premise that every child is good, and Tripp can seem a little harsh.With the starting point of a child needing a Savior and not behavior change, Tripp challenges parents to think differently.
The ultimate goal becomes guiding the heart of a child towards God.I recommend this book to all new and seasoned parents.
The key message of this book is gold: our efforts as parents should not be directed towards changing our children's behaviour, but towards changing their hearts. It is pointless to aim for the appearance of godliness - instead we want to teach and train them to see the sin in their action and draw them to repentance. I didn't agree with a couple of the suggestions but the overall principles are excellent...albeit very challenging - it is much easier to parent reactively than proactively!
Excellent book on parenting and disciplining children. Tripp uses Biblical arguments and support for his views and provides some clear goals for parenting at the various stages of your child’s life. He emphasizes helping your child develop a Godward orientation in terms of attitudes of the heart which translate into behavior. Some will find his views controversial - but on the whole I found this to be a good starting place for ideas on parenting.
Livro muito bom sobre como criar seus filhos de maneira bíblica, que aborda o papel dos pais como agentes de Deus no pastoreio de seus filhos. Todos aqueles que são pais deveriam ler este livro.Sem dúvida este entrará nas minhas releituras pelos próximos anos.
The reason I wanted to re-read it was that I felt like my parenting has become more about dealing with my kids performance/actions, rather than the heart behind the actions.
As well, I do feel that he leaves too much to the 2nd stage of child rearing - I think the birth to 5 years can be a time not only of teaching authority and obedience, but also one of kids learning about character, selfishness, and others.
This is a great book for any parent seeking to raise their kids in a Biblical and God-focused way.
Everyone should read this! I will be referring to it often.
The premise of this book is that as parents, we need to focus not just on the outward, external behavior of our children but be actively addressing the internal heart issues which are driving the outward.
have their origins in the human heart and must be exposed as sin against God. To focus only on controlling and changing outward behavior while failing to address the heart is deadly.
Tripp makes the case that all children are worshipers--it is not "if" he will worship but "what" will he worship: if he rejects the true and living God, the Creator, then he will suppress the truth in unrighteousness and worship the creation instead, idols which cannot satisy.
The first time I read it, my daughter was only a few months old and I didn't enjoy the book too much.
The 2nd time I read it, she was just over 1 year old, and I gleaned a little more from it...however THIRD time's a charm!!
I read it again this past Spring with a 2 1/2 year old and 9 month old, AND I read it with a group of women, and it really spoke to me and urged me to "get back on the horse" with training my children Biblically.
