https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/317121.Blood_Price
At some point, I think after reading Huff's Enchantment Emporium, I was motivated to look up the rest of her catalog and found this series.
It turns out Henry is the bastard child of King Henry the VIII, so his points of view allow Huff to go back in time and dabble in historical romantic fiction.All that said, I'm not sure this deserves space in my personal library, mostly because I've largely moved on from the genre and am looking only for books that stand the test of (my) time.
The Blood sequence beginning with Blood Price (1991) is Contemporary Dark Fantasy set in a Crosshatch-version of Toronto, where its (good) Vampire protagonist and his Companions prevent various evils from afflicting the City. There is a bright, graceful ingenuity about the telling of these tales.
When Vicki Nelson witnesses an attack on the Toronto subway she can hardly believe her eyes.
The victim had his throat laid open and his blood drained by a dark shadow that moved impossibly fast.
She can't quite believe her eyes but is forced to confront the possibility that dark beings live amongst us.
Henry Fitzroy is one such dark being.
As a vampire he knows that secrecy is his best protection.
He joins forces to hunt down the creature that is killing the people of Toronto and try to stop something much worse from being summoned.
Blood Price is OK but dated.

Now I’m determined to read them all: it’s such a cool set-up, the retired police officer turned private detective who, by the way, has retinitis pigmentosa, meets a vampire romance novelist.
I’m not even kidding: it’s supernatural crime, but nonetheless, that is essentially what Vicki Nelson and Henry Fitzroy do.
(And by the way, the detective is Vicki; the romance novelist is Henry.)It’s a pretty light read, but the kind which comes gloriously without guilt for me.
I had never heard of it, but looked it up after seeing the "based on the books by Tanya Huff" note in the credits.
Which is fortunate, because my eyes were starting to water and get red.I have done basically nothing else for like a week reading this book, and I thought it was fantastic.
But even after that, I let the laundry and the dishes lapse.)Ms. Huff has a fascinating concept: A policewoman recently resigned from her job due to a vision issue, and the bastard son of Henry VIII, now a vampire.
What can I say, other then still enjoyable even after all these years.
The 'gimic' of this series is that each volume features a different supernatural element (though all have a resident vampire).Vicki Nelson is an ex-cop who had to leave the Toronto police force 8 months previously due to a degenerative eye disease which may eventually cause her to lose her sight.
Unlike some books in the genre, there are no steamy sex scenes: that element is either subtly played or 'fades' to/from black which is no bad thing.The main weakness on this re-read, and I think when I read it before, is the character of the villain.
For me personally I liked both versions and I thought they all had their own merits but if you want to be more focused on the plot I'd go with the original version but if you're more interested in the character development then I'd suggest the tv tie in.I read Blood Price after receiving a recommendation from Chris' Fish Place.
She quickly finds herself deeply entangled in the case when the victim's girlfriend hires her to investigate the vampire lead after the Police refuse to believe vampires exist.Vampire Henry Fitzroy has his own personal agenda for finding this apparent vampire killer.
As Norman becomes obsessed with his newfound power he gets a little arrogant and unleashes a force he can't control.Vicki and Henry join forces and find themselves confronting an evil more terrifying than they first assumed.
He hated sitting in a chair warmed by someone else....
The spark that was ignited between Vicki and Henry leaves the reader dying to know where these captivating characters are headed.
POV switches are a major pet peeve of mine.Vicki Nelson is an ex-cop turned private investigator with an interesting problem that makes her by turns intriguingly vulnerable and outrageously reckless.
Until about halfway through the book, I thought she might be a little too much the typical female cop type; but by the end, I rather liked her and thought she had potential to be much more of a character.
He’s very much a cardboard cop, and their interactions consist mainly of discussions about crimes, tepid bickering, and (discreet) sex.
The case forces Vicki to call upon ex partner (and sometimes lover) Mike Celluci as well as befriending the 450 year old illegitimate son of King Henry VIII, a gorgeous vampire who makes a living writing historic romance novels.
Huff has also given us the advantage of multiple POV's within this story and I especially enjoyed Henry's numerous flashbacks, taking us back to when he was turned and his many adventures and lost loves after.
This promises to be a great series and fans of Blood Ties or Vampires and the paranormal in general couldn't ask for more.
4.5 StarsBefore Anita Blake, before Buffy, before there was a genre called “urban fantasy,” Tanya Huff introduced readers to P.I. Vicki Nelson and her vampire sidekick Henry Fitzroy in the novel Blood Price, the first book in Huff’s popular Blood series.
I can now see why these books, which are today considered urban fantasy classics, have become so influential.
I can’t wait to read more about Vicki, a tough, half-blind, ex-cop, and Henry, romance writer and bastard son of King Henry VIII.
It’s one of the best detective novels I’ve read in quite a while.
E' un accozzaglia tremenda :SIl vampiro C'E' -una figura di II piano che però fortunatamente mantiene le sue caratteristiche 'vampiresche (anche se un po' idiota, ma vabbé, non si può avere tutto dalla vita in fondo).
Ecco, poi si mischiano pezzi di storia (col figlio bastardo di Henry VIII, niente di meno), e flashback sparsi che vorrebbero fungere da ricostruzione storica ma che infastidiscono parecchio.E non è finita, perché poi spunta fuori un demone..Troppe cose e tutte sviluppate assai male.Vicky, la super poliziotta bellissima, bravissima e levissima, non credo susciti la mia simpatia, anzi.
Ero parecchio allibita, lo ammetto.Però vabbé, si fa leggere, e il vampiro non è lo stereotipo di Eddino Glitterino (anche perché il romanzo è stato scritto nel 1989..).
She stumbles onto a fresh crime scene, which is bad enough, and then gets caught up in trying to catch the culprit, something which quickly proves to be beyond anything she'd imagined, because the killers are supernatural in nature.
And in the course of her investigation, she stumbles upon Henry Fitzroy -- a bastard son of King Henry VIII, supposedly dead since he was seventeen years old.
It wasn't toe-curlingly tense or anything -- neither in terms of the mystery, nor in terms of the sexual tension -- but there were some reasonable dramatic scenes.The geek stereotype killer didn't do much for me, though.
Great first book of a fantasy/crime series.
It's Buffy grows up and opens a Private Investigation firm.The vampire in it is Henry Fitzroy, the bastard son of Henry VIII.
He's also not dark and brooding all the time.
Henry is very much a vampire that is able to adapt to the modern times.
It's not often that I like the main female character in these types of books but I really liked her personality.
The main part of the story is the crime and getting to know the characters.Can't wait to read the next in the series.
After watching Blood Ties I had to come back and re-read the Victoria Nelson series. Definitely holds up, very enjoyable the second time around. Huff does a wonderful job developing Henry, Victoria, and Mike, making them less of a love triangle than a realistic situation. Looking forward to the rest of the series.
I loved just how... normal all the characters were. No leather bustier and high heels for Vicki but sensible clothes and footwear and glasses, an actual job for vampire Henry... And Tony! I loved Tony and the first hints of a relationship between him and Henry. That was great.
Great story, great characters.I found the formatting a bit confusing at first. It read like a TV show.
DNF 57% lost interest
I wanted to read this mostly out of curiosity...it was written well before vampires became trendy and when the urban fantasy genre wasn't so saturated.
Well, not about the fashion...but also thankfully, Huff didn't dwell on what everyone was wearing too much, so it was mostly overlooked.This ended up being more of a police-procedural murder mystery, with a tough ex-cop P.I. pairing up with an ancient 20-something vampire.
I'm hoping this was just a novice writer's mistake and it gets better in subsequent books.
Because I plan to read more--I want to know what happens next!
No, there are not pages of supernatural sex scenes (thank goodness!) there is an actual plot with actual characters that usually have all their clothes on.This first novel in the series involves our heroes defeating a demon summoning with the potential to reduce the world to an annex of hell, demons and all.
Now, re-reading, I sometimes feel I can see in Vicky Nelson the stirrings that were to grow into Torin of the 'Valour' series, one of my favourite kick arse characters in one of my favourite space opera series.So, good book.
Granted, I hadn't read it yet--so, if you're spoiler sensitive as I am, then you might want to skip this review.
Don't read the back copy of the book, either.I enjoyed this for the most part.
Maybe she does more with Mike Celluci in the later books.It's the villain that bothers me.
Maybe that isn't quite fair, given the age of the book, but it did feel stale.
Personal prejudice acknowledgement: I'm kind of a nerd, myself.
I want to see more of Vicki, Henry and Mike.
That says the book's a success right there.Note to writerly self: The next one's titled Blood Trail.
This book is almost 20 years old - the first of one of the early urban fantasy series.
The lack of cell phones and PDAs made it seem dated to me, not contemporary, and I prefer contemporary urban fantasy.
BUT I think there's a good chance that this series has kept going for the last 20 years (need to look it up), so it could have evolved into something I will love, like Hamilton's Anita Blake series did.
Along the way, she meets Henry Fitzroy, a vampire, who is trying to find the killer because he doesn't want the media hype about vampires ultimately leading to his own death.
The cops, including her ex lover Mike Celluci want her to stay out of it.
She becomes involved in the case when the girlfriend of one of the victims asks her for help.
The girlfriend insists it was a vampire that did it, and as the case continues, Vicki is beginning to agree.
Enter Henry Fitzroy.
He wants her help to catch the killer ravaging the city, and he also has his own secret to share with Vicki.I like that the heroine is human.
Vicki is likeable, and when she fights with Mike it's really entertaining.
He's also a vampire, and as he and Vicki investigate, they realise that a vampire may not be to blame – but a demon and a screwed up college kid are.Tony, a secondary character, seems rather different from the guy I remember from Smoke and Shadows (published after the Blood series, I think).
The scenes set in his past didn't interest me, and neither did his fiction's excerpts.Originally published in 1991, Blood Price holds up well 17 years later, though investigations would have been sped up had the Internet been around.
Hamilton, and readers – and writers – have a lot for which to thank them.
I ordered the books after watching the television series they inspired.
I must say, Vicki is a strong, admirable character.
But did he have to have the short pants and the pocket protector?
Honestly, I skipped over him to get to the fun Vicki/Henry parts.
I do enjoy how open the characters are about sexuality, even though the books themselves are not as graphic as say anything by Anne Rice or Laurell K.
Hamilton, the obvious comparisons to any good vampire book.
That just wasn't as developed in this book as in the others.
In short, it was an OK read.
Reread, in anticipation of reading the rest of the series, as I liked the Smoke spinoff so much and I feel silly watching the new TV series without having read all the books. I was happy to find this more fun than I remembered—possibly because the characters have more resonance than just the first book taken alone allows. Coincidentally, I read this right after Borrower of the Night, a mystery starring one Vicky Bliss, and in the War of the Vicky/is—a battle of kickass female protagonists—Vicki Nelson totally wins.
The tv series was fabulous. I have it on DVD. I can't believe they cancelled it and at such a pivotal spot!
‘Blood Price’ is the first book in Huff’s ‘Blood’ series about Toronto Private Investigator, Vicki Nelson, and her vampire associate, Henry Fitzroy.
The series concluded in 1997; finishing with 5 books, 1 omnibus of short stories, a trilogy spin-off series for one of the main protagonists and a Canadian TV series adaptation.Tanya Huff paved the way for the Urban Fantasy genre by bringing vampires into modern day, and mixing them with crime fiction.
