https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210850.The_Fairy_Caravan
It had the same magic as her more well-known books, of animals living a human-like life unbeknownst to the "Big Folk," as humans are called.
Having read a couple of biographies of Beatrix Potter, I know that later in her life, her biggest love was her highland sheep - an ancient breed native to the Lake District, uniquely adapted to an almost undomesticated life out on the moors.
Beatrix's love of these highland sheep came through very clearly in the chapters featuring the sheep, as the animals talk proudly of their ancient heritage, their love of the land, and their love for their beloved Mistress Heelis (Beatrix herself).
We follow them on their journey, and listen to the stories the performers tell each other, or are told to them by the animals with whom the circus stays.
Much is written in thick regional dialects.I have an excessively wide vocabulary and the SAT scores to prove it, and this is the only book written in English for which I have ever needed to frequently run to the dictionary (or internet) to get definitions.
Potter herself knew this would be a problem, and included a handy glossary for the technical farming and regional dialect terms.
I *adore* Beatrix Potter's stories. This is her only (I think?) longer, novel-ish sort of book, though it keeps the anthropomorphic animals and Yorkshire idyll of Peter Rabbit and Tom Kitten, etc. I do think I prefer her shorter books. They're so perfectly pitched, atmospheric, not-a-word-wasted, and I think here that same writing kind of piles up and becomes a lot. But then there were some great fairy tales interspersed, and the ending was lovely and poignant, so I did really liked it. :) If you're a Beatrix Potter fan, it's totally worth a sunny afternoon's reading.
Nice book. I guess I'm just not a big fan of talking animals books. This had lovely illustration. Sweet stories. I didn't like the baby talk used by one of the characters.
A nice book but not as good as her other short stories
Cute.
Mostly a stitching together of little stories, some created by Potter and some adapted from traditional tales.
Don't miss the glossary at the end, but know that it's not complete...
for example, the roe-deer leaps away "with a flicker of white scuts." Huh?I do wish the old folk songs from this, and from the Little House books, etc., were readily available, for example on YouTube.
but of course that would require some new 'co-author' to do research and create the music.Gentle, but not twee.
If you don't already know, much of Potter's work was satirical, and many of her characters were much naughtier than Peter.
เปนวรรณกรรมเยาวชนทีคลายนิทานแตยาวกวาใหรสชาติหวานหอมชวนฝันสำหรับเดกผูหญิงเลาเรืองราวการเกือกูลกันของเหลาสรรพสัตวในกองคาราวานขนาดเลกมิตรภาพของเพือนรวมทาง และผูผานทางฉากและบรรยากาศสวยงามแสนหวานชุมชืนชุมฉำบมเพาะความออนละมุนในหัวใจดวงนอยๆแตสำหรับคนทีโตแลวอยางเรา เราวาเนือเรืองมันเรือยๆ ไปหนอยไมมีจุดพีค ไมมีจุดสนใจใหติดตามไมใชแนวคะ
เป็นวรรณกรรมเยาวชนที่คล้ายนิทานแต่ยาวกว่าให้รสชาติหวานหอมชวนฝันสำหรับเด็กผู้หญิงเล่าเรื่องราวการเกื้อกูลกันของเหล่าสรรพสัตว์ในกองคาราวานขนาดเล็กมิตรภาพของเพื่อนร่วมทาง และผู้ผ่านทางฉากและบรรยากาศสวยงามแสนหวานชุ่มชื่นชุ่มฉ่ำบ่มเพาะความอ่อนละมุนในหัวใจดวงน้อยๆแต่สำหรับคนที่โตแล้วอย่างเรา เราว่าเนื้อเรื่องมันเรื่อยๆ ไปหน่อยไม่มีจุดพีค ไม่มีจุดสนใจให้ติดตามไม่ใช่แนวค่ะ
I read this book out loud to my sweet little cousin, Joanna. It was as enchanting as Beatrix Potter’s Peter Rabbit stories. A charming illustrated children’s story with the beautiful language, delightful imagery, and very clear and imaginative love for nature that is characteristic of all of Beatrix Potter’s altogether sweet works and illustrations.
i absolutely adore this book and never tire of reading it outloud to my kids. the language is simply beautiful even if the first time you read it, you need to get used to the language.
I love Beatrix Potter, and particularly her longer works.
This one, a novel-length collection of tales bound together loosely via the device of a magical animal-run circus troupe that wends its way through northern England, is not nearly as well known as her "Peter Rabbit" books.
The tales range from her trademark social satire (especially wherever cats appear) to a love letter to her Herdwick sheep (this isn't a bad companion volume to The Shepherd's Life: A People's History of the Lake District) to proper Fairy Tales (I mean with fairies in them, not princesses).
This was recommended to me after my guinea pig died last year. It's a very sweet collection of tales told by little animals that travel in a caravan together. I think this would be excellent to read to children. I enjoyed it as an adult, but it would've fit right in with my interests when I was younger. Very cute, very sweet, lovely imagery.
A favorite of Beatrix's, one she said was perhaps too revealing of herself. Her love of place comes through in this not quite so littlenof her "little books." I especially enjoyed the magical, fairy and mystical nature bits, as well as mentions of "Mrs. Heelis" and her dancing clogs. But that silly Paddy Pig - one should never eat toadstool tartlets.
I hadn't heard of this title until just recently. I read it aloud with our kids (ages 4 - 12) and, on the whole, we enjoyed it. Some of the vocabulary is a bit above the heads of young folk but we pressed on and made it work.Full review here: http://www.readingtoknow.com/2018/11/...
A wonderful book.
Very good, even for adults!
A lovely book to nourish your soul, no matter if you are an adult or a child.The book covers not only stories from each lovely talking animals, but also a wonderful scenery of an English country side. I can almost feel the refreshing spring breeze as I went along each lines of it.
This book is magical times infinity.
The story of a guinea pig who longs for fanciness.
Taking a medicine, his hair grows without ceasing (until it ceases, several days later).
He takes up with circus folk, traveling with the Fairy Caravan: a troupe of animals, invisible to big people (due to seed packets plaited into their fur), who travel the countryside entertaining the other animals.
Adventures are had, stories are told, cats are in it (always the mark of a superior read).
There is a cat named "Cheesebox." There's a great story in it, told by a bird, about the nature of storytelling.
I love Beatrix Potter, and this is a sweet little story, but I'm slightly disappointed in it. The sub-stories didn't seem to have a point to them, and the incessant inaccuracies in punctuation and lack of paragraph breaks for dialogue got annoying really fast (although this could just be my curse for being a copy editor). Overall, it was a pleasant book, but I prefer Potter's shorter children's books.
I could read this just for the whimsical names of all the animals but there is so much more to capture your imagination. You can get a feeling for B. Potter's love of nature and animals while reading these most whimsical stories. This is definitely a balm for those looking to step back into a time of more honest and sincere storytelling told for the sake of simple amusement and fancy
Beatrix Potter was definitely sampling the wacky mushrooms in this one. Still, it's funny, and you can see in it a bit of Sendak's "Higglety Pigglety Pop." ** Please support your local independent bookstore when buying this book! Buying from Amazon.com hurts your local economy. If you don't know where to go, check here: http://www.indiebound.org/indie-store... **
With its comparative scarcity of illustrations, Beatrix Potter's only chapter book showcases the author's dry sense of humor and insight into character. A series of interconnected tales of a mini circus that travels around the English countryside performing for their fellow animals is delightfully droll while still revealing the author as a fairly persnickety old farmer.
Blech ... we had to abandon this one after battling through about nine chapters. The last one that was about the lineage of Scottish sheep was too much. Like Shakespeare for the 12 and under crowd, the over the top whimsy that would be charming to some was downright frustrating for a read-aloud to a toddler. More dialogue than story, it just didn't capture us. Onward!
I read a translated copy, and it was poorly written. It was very hard to read, not fluent at all. Let alone trying to understand it. If this book targets children, I honestly don't think the translated version suit the target group at all with so many uncommon and difficult words.
Precious, charming and delightfully true to life in the different animals' expressions! I want a long-haired guinea-pig now. And to give all of my chickens first and last names, when the time comes. :)
Delightful!
Good, but not a patch on her 'Little Bunny Books'
Beatrix Potter was a magnificent children's story teller and the books passed down through generations are still loved today
Quite different in writing style to her earlier books, and really brought to life by Quentin's illustrations
Another fun and delightful book from the mind of Beatrix Potter.
