https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22522202-until-friday-night
West's relationship with his dying father and his bond with his mother was gut-wrenching to read.
Also, all of the girls in this book are jealous of Maggie because duh, she's so goddamn beautiful and sweet every guy in the school is in love/lust with her.
And because West doesn't want to "taint" Maggie, he consoled himself by sleeping with those other girls, and he treated them horribly.
If Maggie knew I used girls like this, she'd be disgusted with me.
Every single guy in the football team treated other girls horribly except of course Maggie because she's just so goddamn innocent and pure and a speshul snowflake.
4 stars!
I have read every single book of Abbi Glines (Yes- ALL of them) so when I heard she was writing a new YA book, I had to get it asap.
She is such a guilty pleasure of mine because I know exactly what to expect when I read a book of hers.
I know the type of heroes/heroines to look forward to and usually what direction the book will go.
Her books have a formula and it’s one that works for me.
Until Friday Night had that, but was a little different since it was YA.Maggie and West meet one F
Until Friday Night had that, but was a little different since it was YA.Maggie and West meet one Friday night… both are completely different but have more in common than they could ever imagine.
He’s a star football player, popular guy and could have any girl he wants.
Even though Maggie is deemed ‘off limits’ early on by her cousin, West still finds a way to be close to her.
West knows she deserves better than someone like him.
But the person he wants is Maggie.
And West- he was going through such a hard time, but Maggie changed him.
And yes, I love Abbi and I will continue reading the rest of this new series but I need to see how the next book turns out.
Yes, they’re mean people out there, yes, they’re such a pain, but not all teenage girls are like that.
So that’s why I had a hard time liking West a.k.a. the male mc.
I mean, come on, the dude was constantly saying his momma raised him better and blah blah and yet he behaved like that.He was not all bad and he kinda got better at the end of the book but yeah, not a fan of him.Then we have Maggie.
3.75 StarsI have been super excited to get my hands on this book and to my surprise it wasn’t what I have envisioned when you talk about Friday night field parties with hot high school football players falling in love.
West clings to his best friend’s cousin, Maggie the girl who doesn’t talk since the loss of her parents as he faces the impendent death of his hero, his father.
Maggie falls for West but worries she is just is crutch helping in through his loss and not the love she dreams of finding but something unhealthy for both of them.
It’s no secret I am a HUGE Abbi Glines fan, so a book about high school football by one of my favorite authors, I was dying to read Until Friday Night.West Ashby is the start football player, popular guy, and appears to have the perfect life, but at home things are falling apart.
Maggie is the new student at school, she is West’s best friend's cousin and completely off limits.
Maggie and West are both fantastic characters.
I didn’t expect a story about high school students to have so much heart, but it did.
This story took me back to high school.
Ummmmm, no way in HELL am I finishing this.
What a horrible love interest/"hero"!
He treats the girls around him like crap but it's okay because his dad is dying.
Literally ALL OF THE BOYS are manwhores and the girls are harpies to make the main girl look better.
I shudder to think that the tropes this author uses - especially in regards to sex - will become popular in YA/NA romances.
The dude finds a new fuck buddy 40% into the book, and I know this isn't the first time the author has had her "heroes" sleep around in the middle of the book.
1.5 StarsI pretty much skimmed this whole book, which is a first for me with an Abbi Glines romance. I actually enjoyed her other Young Adult romances, but this one couldn't hold my attention.
This one wasn't for me. I felt for Maggie and what happened with her family. And I felt for West with what he was going through with his family. But, it just didn't hit the mark Maggie cane to live with her aunt and uncle and her cousin, Brady. I liked Brady most of the time because he was real protective. At times too protective but still. The rest were just okay
Forced to take her along to a Friday night field party where all of Brady's friends and football teammates will be hanging out, Maggie meets West for the first time.West and Brady are best friends and play on the high school football team.
Brady warns him to leave her alone and tells him she can't speak.
She thought he might have been a half decent guy when she overheard his loving and concerned phone conversation with his mom at the party, but Maggie thought wrong.
She doesn't measure up to other girls as far as West is concerned.I loved how West and Maggie's relationship evolves.
So she stayed quiet, keeping her sorrow and her fractured heart hidden away.As West’s pain becomes too much to handle, he knows he needs to talk to someone about his father—so in the dark shadows of a post-game party, he opens up to the one girl who he knows won’t tell anyone else.West expected that talking about his dad would bring some relief, or at least a flood of emotions he couldn’t control.
But he never expected the quiet new girl to reply, to reveal a pain even deeper than his own—or for them to form a connection so strong that he couldn’t ever let her go…
Currently listening to this one Ooh la la: Southern bad boys ✔pickup trucks ✔football ✔ high school field parties ✔  Follow Foxy Blogs at: Foxy Blogs ♥ Twitter ♥ Instagram ♥ Facebook
Ohhhh, wait until you see what Abbi Glines has in store with you with this series!!!!
I quite enjoyed this book.. it is the first in a series by Abbi Glines and it’s all about falling in love in High School!! Throw that together with the football jocks and the special girls they fall in love with, and you have a great read!Review to come!
This book follows the same line with the popular rich boy / broken and innocent girl and although it’s a sweet reading there was some aspects that didn’t work for me and despite being told that it happens in other Abbi’s books, it was the first time I noticed: There was a huge factor of slut-shaming all the girls that weren’t the heroine, because apparently not being a virginal saint was a huge sin in this book.
He was a popular, good looking kid with a nice life at least until his father’s disease, she was an innocent broken girl that the hero falls at first sight.
I thought that between the time passing and the amount of books she’s written since then, there’s bound to have been some growth.
It was just tiring to have to listen to them demean the new girl and the token slutty girl.I think my face had a perma-grimace while reading this book.I was looking forward to reading this book because I like to read about characters who are blind, or deaf, or mute.
What I didn’t like was how West was the only person she could speak to.
Well, I haven’t given up on a book this year.
I'll try to keep it short and I hope you guys will understand why I feel like I just wasted my time reading this.
This doesn't really offer anything new in the genre but I guess it was entertaining enough that's why I kept reading and managed to finish it.This is what I'm saying girls: avoid the i'm-a-girl-with-problems-and-he's-an-attractive-lost-soul-therefore-I-have-to-save-him syndrome.
But I couldn’t."Until Friday Night might be easy to read but I feel like this book will only appeal to certain readers.
If you're like me who has read hundreds of books in this genre, I'm not gonna recommend this book to you.
I couldn't get through this one. I couldn't get past the sexist comments being made by every guy in this book and constant comments on how a girl LOOKS. I mean not all football players act like that. They aren't all neanderthals pounding their chests and hooking up with every girl along the way. I love football, but I couldn't get past the sexist comments. I thought they were disrespectful and not something I was willing to be subjected to....even in fiction. So, this is a DNF for me.
Reviewed by: Hello Beautiful Book Blog Captures the essence of a small town Friday night. This book has the spirit of everything southern with real drama to keep you entertained. I have a love/hate relationship with Abbi. Well, not really hate because I like her books, just maybe a love relationship with her and a hate relationship with Nan. (If you’ve read Forever Too Far in the Rosemary Beach series, you know what I’m talking about) Anyway. I appreciate the books about southern characters, but
Well, not really hate because I like her books, just maybe a love relationship with her and a hate relationship with Nan.
I appreciate the books about southern characters, but I feel like the characters are just a bit over the top sometimes.
I liked Maggie being kind of mysterious and finding out what happened to her as the book moves on.
Everyone is really mature in this book, except a couple of the girls who confront Maggie.
I appreciated that and it made me like this book so much more.
****************Captures the feel of a small town Friday night.
I didn't even know she wrote Ya. Anyways, when I read what this book was about all I could think of was how sweet it sounded.
I wanted to read for myself why so many people were torn about this one and I totally get it too.UFN follows high school student Maggie Carleton, who after having a traumatic experience has decided not to talk.
Once West actually starts hanging out Maggie things take a very dramatic turn.
All these changes really jump start the plot and gets this love story going.I wish the first half of this book was as strong as the last half.
Omg I was a bit of a mess readin this  Maggie as been through so much the last 2 yrs an she is still
Maggie as been through so much the last 2 yrs an she is still deal with what happened she is know livin with her auntie an uncle an her cousin Brady she is goin 2 start a new school an try an stick 2 herself like alway the only thing that can make this hard is that she doesn't talk she as lived with people sayin things about her but she doesn't care she as 2 protect herself Brady is nice 2 her but his mum Maggie's auntie wants him 2 look out 4 her Brady is on the football team an is 1 of the best they al go 2 the a field on Friday nites after there game so Maggie as 2 tag along she wants 2 make it easy on Brady she as told him that when she wrote on her note pad so once they r there she just sits in a corner but Maggie is not easy hid she is so beautiful an everyone soon notices her that includes the team but Brady tells them al 2 keep away 
4.5 STARS!Abbi Glines can never do any wrong for me.
The relationship between West and Maggie was really cute, I loved how she helped him heal and he helped her.
However, I also loved how Maggie called out West on him being controlling as authors and publishers like to skip it in their books when it is something that sadly happens.
I wouldn't say this book was the best YA to ever be written, like I've said plenty of times Abbi Glines' writing is pretty basic but it works for her.
Re-read 7/31/16 3.5 'Painful' StarsMaggie moves in with her Aunt and Uncle after a tragic event leads her to being all alone in the world. Their son Brady is her age so her aunt makes him take care of Maggie and take her around with him. Really though, Maggie would rather be alone and not around people that don't understand her. She hasn't talked to anyone since that terrible night and she has no desire to. But then she meets West...West is going through hell and he's all alone. He doesn't want
But then he meets Maggie, his friends mute cousin, and he know's she's the only one he can talk to.
I'm really glad I gave it a shot and I ended up enjoying the story.West was such an intense character and my heart broke while reading what he had to go through.
I liked her with West but by herself I got a little annoyed with her character and that she never stood up for herself.
Bottom line, this was a good story and I'm really glad I was in a bit of a slump that made me give West and Maggie a chance.
OMG I'm so lucky :D I got an arc from Edelweiss :D I'm so excited to read this book :D
Ahhhhh this guys! This is why I love YA! <3
When there's a new Abbi Glines book, I always look forward to it because it's quick to read and they cure my reading slumps. This one is more of an okay-ish book to me. I'm not really a fan of Maggie and West as main characters. They just fell flat to me and the other characters are a bunch of assholes. The only thing I liked here was Brady. Though at first I find him rude, he just have a different approach of being protective. I might or might not continue this series... we'll see.
I LOVED IT! I wasn't expecting to love it. Because I don't like too young YA books - but this one was sooo adorable, and not too young. I cried ALL THROUGH THE BOOK!!!!If I had to say something negative, it would be that there wasn't much happening in this story. Just two grieving people helping each other - a bit of high-school-drama - but I loved it. It was really moving and lots of FEELS ☺ PerfectNow I can't wait for book #2 - Gunner ☺
""There's my favorite girl," Dad said as Momma walked over to him." Some things had me going back and forth so I liked and then also didn't so here's that:- West and MaggieThey do have a sweet relationship and at times it would make me miss my boyfriend so much with sweet gestures like kissing her nose or forehead.
But going through everyone making sure they know Maggie is off- limits and all of this was just a bit much.And here are some things that missed the mark:-Maggie was immature at time- (view spoiler)[ When Olivia leaves West after her husband dies.
Does anyone HOPE TO GOD this series is about the last 2 words in the Sea Breeze series.I mean you have:High schoolFootballSouthernPick up trucksAnd 2 words from her last bookI vote YES PLEASE! :)
No reseñare este libro, ni lo comentare mucho. Solo diré que es mi favorito de Abbi Glines (y ya he leído mas de 12 libros de ella, así que ya es mucho decir). Me enamoro, y me removió muchos sentimientos. Además de ser súper adictivo como los demás libros de Abbi.
This was my first Abbi Glines book, and it was such a huge disappointment.
I mean West doesn't even want Maggie to speak to anyone else because that would be...
And just when I think Mrs. Abbi Glines gets it, and she's showing us that this isn't what a normal, high school relationship looks like by allowing Maggie to break it off with him, we find out it's because Maggie doesn't think this behavior is okay...
well, at least not when West hasn't said that he loves her.
