https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78038.Virgin_Soil_Upturned_Book_1
Virgin Soil Upturned, Book 1, Mikhail SholokhovMikhail Aleksandrovich Sholokhov (May 24 [O.S. May 11] 1905 – February 21, 1984) was a Soviet/Russian novelist and winner of the 1965 Nobel Prize in Literature.
He is known for writing about life and fate of Don Cossacks during the Russian Revolution, the civil war and the period of collectivization, primarily the famous And Quiet Flows the Don. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهاردهم ماه جولای سال 1970 میلادیعنوان: زمین نوآباد - جلد یکم؛ نویسنده: میخائیل شولوخف؛ مترجم: م.ا.
به آذین (محمود اعتمادزاده)؛ تهران، نیل، 1348، در دو جلد؛ چاپ دوم 1357؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، سرو، 1363؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان روسیه قرن 20 ما.
Have just read this again after a gap of thirty-six years.
The downside of reading a book like this is I expect my next book to be at least closely as good as this one. A tough challenge for all those authors out there. Mikhail Sholokhov is no joke, he got a Noble !. Didn't feel like going though 900 pages even though the book was heavy to hold. Sholokhov's view on communism was brutally blunt. That's why he was even banned from Russia. Davydov is one of my favorite fictional characters now. He was misguided but such an inspiration for the youth.
In these parts of the book I could feel the presence of the author of Quiet Flows the Don. But the rest of the book is the poorly written rant of a party hack.
None of this is even hinted at in this book that was written more than a decade after the disastrous results of collectivization were well known, at least to people at the top.
But all is forgiven and by the end he is readmitted to the party as a honored servant of the World Revolution.
I wanted to read more Sholokhov after "The Quiet Don". Unfortunately, "Virgin Soil Upturned" pales in comparison. It's not bad, it's just that the bar was set too high. Anyway, this is fictional account of Soviet collectivization of a Cossack farm in the late 1920's. It's a bit more propaganda-ish than "The Quiet Don", but there is still a lot of content that I'm surprised passed Stalin's censors. The story itself is compelling enough that I'm going to jump right into Part Two.
This is a work of the social realist school which from our perspective means that it is totally devoid of any literary merit. However, it is the best account we have of the collectiviaztion process and the life inside the collectives. As an historical document it is of enormous value.
دفاعی تمام قد از سیاست اشتراکی شدن مزارع و ایجاد کالخوزها در رژیم کمونیستی شوروی و دوره استالین
کتاب های شولوخف رو همیشه می تونی حس کنی با تمام وجود ، خیلی عالی بود
Superb depiction. All should know what had actually happened during collectivisation days in Soviet Union.
