https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/292455.The_Honorary_Consul
....تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز پانزدهم ماه جولای سال 1978 میلادیعنوان: کنسول افتخاری؛ نویسنده: گراهام گرین؛ مترجم: احمد میرعلایی؛ تهران، کتاب زمان، 1356؛ در 386 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، علم، 1385؛ در 402 ص؛ شابک: 9644056094؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 مداستان «ادواردو» یک پزشک انگلیسی است، که پدرش زندانی سیاسی در پاراگوئه هست.
یکی از گروهکها با او تماس میگیرند و از او میخواهند تا در دزدیدن سفیر آمریکا، به آنها یاری کند، تا در قبال آزادی کنسول، بخواهند پدر او و دیگر زندانیان سیاسی را آزاد کنند.
Il dittatore dell’epoca si chiamava Stroessner, nella finzione romanzesca così come nella vita reale.C’è un medico nato in Paraguay da genitori inglesi, Eduardo Parr, che nel film ha il volto e il fisico non indifferenti di Richard Gere.
La polizia informa Eduardo che suo padre non potrà essere scambiato con Fortnum perché morto da tempo in un tentativo di fuga.La polizia interviene per liberare il console onorario e nel conflitto a fuoco muore Eduardo Parr.
Adoro Graham Greene, amo questo romanzo.Il console onorario, magnifico cornuto, in compagnia della sua giovane moglie e del suo miglior amico.
Greene has two bonafide/genuine masterpieces in "The Quiet American" & "The End of the Affair," but by all rights "The Honorary Consul" takes a very honorary place along "The Power and the Glory"; that is, it's about these incredibly Hollywood-esque (or legends of) important people making choices & suffering the inevitable...
Greene is a total pleasure to read.
"Brighton Rock" was way more unexpected, the aforementioned classic masterpieces ("Quiet" and "Affair") are complete and utterly, (devastatingly!!!!!) hugely beautiful.
"Power and the Glory" seems more magnificent--not as asphyxiated with themes of Catholic Church-bashing as this novel is (esp.
Description: In a provincial Argentinean town, Charley Fortnum, a British consul with dubious authority and a weakness for drink, is kidnapped by Paraguayan revolutionaries who have mistaken him for the American ambassador.
Fully recommended.3* The Quiet American4* The End of the Affair3* The Power and the Glory2* The Heart of the Matter3* Our Man in Havana4* Brighton Rock3* The Third Man4* Travels With My Aunt4* The Human FactorTR The Comedians4* A Burnt Out CaseCR The Honorary Consul3* A Gun for SaleTR Complete Short Stories3* The Captain and the Enemy2* The Man Within4* Monsignor QuixoteTR The Confidential Agent4* The Ministry of Fear
Sex, love, life, death, whiskey, Catholicism and South American politics – all familiar territory to Graham Greene – but ‘The Honorary Consul’ (1973) whilst revisiting and exploring all these themes, is by no means a re-tread or a recycling of previous Greene novels.The story this time is ostensibly centred around a bungled kidnapping attempt, all those whom it affects and its catastrophic aftermath.
Whilst not perhaps quite up there with classic Graham Greene (‘End of the Affair, Power and the Glory, Heart of the Matter’) it is very close.‘The Honorary Consul’ is intriguing and compelling – the unrelenting tension builds throughout.
As with Greene’s greatest novels, ‘Honorary Consul’ is imbued with a sense of reality and authenticity throughout – it is accessible whilst deeply meaningful – profound.
One of his later novels (1973), it was better than I thought it would be.
The same themes: love, betrayal, justice, and faith, with a newer one: machismo.
Set in northern Argentina on the border with Paraguay, Dr Plarr, of an Argentine mother and British father, seems much older than his 30 years, world-weary.Not quite as intense as my favorite 4 (The Quiet American; The Heart of the Matter; A Burnt Out Case; The End of the Affair) but it's still Greene in top form and convincing.
Plarr's foil is Fortnum, the Honorary Counsel, a Brit forgotten by his government, consigned to this outpost out of convenience, a drunk and aging man who has fallen in love with his twenty-year old wife Clara, a former prostitute from the town's whorehouse.
Fortnum and Plarr, and the kidnappers, are forced to face their mortality and come to terms with issues such as their belief in God, in love, and in justice.
For once you're conscious of personal failure, then perhaps in future you become a little less fallible.
In 'The Honorary Consul' I did suggest this idea, through the guerrilla priest, that God and the devil were actually one and the same person - God had a day-time and a night-time face, but that He evolved, as Christ tended to prove, towards His day-time face - absolute goodness - thanks to each positive act of men."In this concluding episode, Plarr's attempts to help Charley get him death threats from the police.
Plenty of reviews already for The Honorary Consul. A subdued, understated quality to the characters here. As usual with Greene, no winners on offer just an overall sense of loss.
Unable to imagine the former friend in the role of a fierce guerrilla, Plarr gaved them.
The topic, it weaves a remarkable novel, a little sad actually, on faith, love, fatherhood, guilt, on South America of the 70s, too, all of guerrillas, of poverty and machism, full of contradictions, caught between his aspirations and the manipulations of powerful neighbor of upstairs ....
With a man who was going to die and would never remember his words as a priest in the confessional""I know you're cold, Ted. I've called you so many times.
Hell of time it takes to fill."
This was an exemplary read.
Comedic indictments of the Latin ideal of machismo, kidnappers who are absolutely no good at kidnapping, the consistently volatile political situation of Latin American countries, the lonely emptiness of the ex-pat, and the utter worthlessness of one man's life when viewed through a Utilitarian framework: all of these themes find expression in Greene's Honorary Consul.
This had been floating around in my to-be-read queue for a while and I have no regrets about bumping it to the top of my list.
Greene was a master wordsmith and his characters are always, at the least, interesting constructions.
The Honorary Consul ranks with the best of Graham Greene's work.
The priest, Leon Rivas, has many of the best lines, as when he explains why he likes detective stories:Oh, there is a sort of comfort in reading a story where one knows what the end will be.
I prefer God.The Honorary Consul is not like one of Rivas's detective novels: One does not know how it will end.
Even though I had read the novel before (years ago), I was still surprised.I loved this book, and now I want to read more of Greene's work.
He has to be a God made in our image with a night-side as well as a day-side."The Honorary Consul is somewhat heavier fare than Graham Greene's "entertainments".
The justification of man's actions based on faith or based on the conflict created by the expectations of religious instruction and the reality of life features heavily in this book.Charlie Fortnum is an elderly, worn out diplomat, a British Honorary Consul based in northern Argentina who has been largely forgotten by the Foreign Office until he becomes inadvertently entangled in a plot to kidnap the American ambassador.
(view spoiler)[‘It’s not how I intended things,’ Doctor Plarr repeated.
Angst. Too much of it. Apparently angst bores me, whether it be Catholic angst, angst about being incapable of love, angst about being a failure or anything else this motley crew of idiots, incompetents, buffoons, alcoholics and pompous arses find to angst about.Which is a shame, because when the plot is advancing it's a fairly good story, though the plot turns on an imbecilic decision by one of the protagonists. There's a good, taut, 150p novel struggling to escape all the angst but ultimately drowning in it.
In fact, Fortnum as an accidental hostage neither serves the Foreign Office nor holds any duty that involves intelligence of any kind; I think Greene might have used the title to be seemingly political-related, supported by a group of revolutionaries who have tried to kidnap the Ambassador and negotiations with the police done by Dr Plarr as an intermediary.When I first saw the book cover, I wondered on the involvement of the sunglasses till I have reached the scene when Dr Plarr meets Clara at Kruber's shop where he approaches her, talking with her for more intimate relationship and buys her a pair of flashy sunglasses in spite of his knowledge that she has already married to Fortnum.
I haven't read any other of Graham Green's work.
It is funny that I should have started with this, which is referred to as one his later works.
For one, I was excited about reading Green.
And the rest of the bunch who orchestrate a kidnapping.
Its From this same dungeon where Fortnum, the kidnapped honorary consul picks up his wife, who would later lie and betray his loyal love.
But its interesting to note that the characters, especially the male ones, are well drawn.
Maybe one or two of the female characters stand out, while the rest are quite obscure.
As always with Greene, beautifully spare language and an agonising disaster made of several lives because of ideology, belief or lack of it, guilt, machismo, and over all, a lack of love passed on from one generation to the next. Brilliant and almost unbearable to read as the characters blunder ever deeper into the mire.
Well, obviously he didn't read 'The Honorary Consul.' Aside from being a great story - up there with my favorite Greenes, Heart of the Matter, Power and Glory, Quiet American, Our Man in Havana - this one's also full of questioning and self-doubt about the role of literature in the world, the kind of writing one should do if one is going to be a writer, the relation between literature, politics and religion, and so on.
The only flaw is that towards the end it suddenly becomes a second rate Dostoevsky novel: all long, looping, repetitive, completely unbelievable dialogue about God, politics and life.
There's also a priest here.
I had written before, elsewhere here at goodreads, that I hated "The Power and the Glory" where I found the priest there quite ridiculous.
I likewise didn't like "The End of the Affair", finding the characters there unreal.This one, however, is different.
Words and statements drop like little bombs, shocking the reader and keeping him awake, fragments shattering inside his skull with a kaleidoscope of bright colors.I am now in awe of this grand master of storytellers.
Not the Best, but Indubitably Greene Doctor Eduardo Plarr stood in the small port on the Paraná, among the rails and yellow cranes, watching where a horizontal plume of smoke stretched over the Chaco. It lay between the red bars of the sunset like a stripe on a national flag. Doctor Plarr found himself alone at that hour except for the one sailor who was on guard outside the maritime building. It was an evening which, by some combination of failing light and the smell of an unrecognized plant,
And Greene's typical fascination with Catholicism.The plot fails, because the kidnappers take the Honorary British Consul by mistake, a harmless old alcoholic called Charley Fortnum, who probably has never set foot in England either.
In the second half of the book, it works out that both Charley Fortnum and Eduardo Plarr are his prisoners, inside a hut in a poor quarter.
There must be fifty pages of theological discussion between the defrocked priest, the agnostic Plarr, and the atheist but surprisingly perceptive Fortnum.
Doctor Plarr, the person we know most about, turns out to be hard to know after all.
This is one of the prominent themes along with a critique of machismo in Argentinean culture, parody of the detective novel, and the place of religion in the blood drenched politics of the 20th century.
Like Harold Bloom who refuses religion on the basis of Concentration Camps and Schizophrenia, Greene’s characters ponder whether we are living in the “night side” of God. How could a just God witness the world we live in?
This book also examples Greene’s incredible political foresight, as this was published three years before Argentina’s horrible “dirty war” but predicts nearly every element of it.
Amongst the better works by Greene. A thriller set in Argentina with dash of theology and Greene's soothing/likeable narration makes this book a good read. Does not move you to tears and doesn't make you laugh out loud but does make you turn pages without giving in to cheap thrills as good books should.
To me, the country where he places his characters (Argentina, Sierra Leone, Mexico, Vietnam) isn't important, it's only the fact that they are outsiders, keeping British values in countries where these moral codes have become irrelevant, that is significant.Although the setting of Greene's books is interchangeable, the details are often the same: a conflicted (anti)hero, a love triangle, a pyrrhic victory, a difficult mother, an absent or bullying father (or Father, or Father-in-heaven).
it's only tragedy which people bother to imagine or invent.""Life isn't noble or dignified.
Life is absurd.
Děj je v zásadě velmi jednoduchý, - revoluční skupina unese omylem britského honorárního konzula místo amerického velvyslance a hlavní postava, doktor Plarr, se k tomu připlete - ale různými přesuny v časových rovinách se to trochu komplikuje, stejně tak i politickou rovinou děje.
I make a point of never reading reviews before I read the book but when I went on Goodreads to record the fact that I was about to start the novel I must have somehow absorbed a word or two of the description.
Without this word, with a different expectation, I might have liked the book better.You see, I had a reason for wanting a thriller.
The novel simply failed to read as a thriller.
It failed to keep me awake by simply not being as interesting as I had hoped.
And the word may have been chosen simply in the interests of marketing.
A very typical Graham Greene-novel with all the classic dilemma's the protagonists (with them again a former priest) are confronted with: what is right or wrong? Is there a loving God? What is the meaning of life?. The setting is the north of Argentina and the story revolves around the abduction - by mistake - of a British honorary consul. Even more than in other Greene-novels there are quite a lot of very cynical protagonists, but as always they appear to have their weak sides in time of need. Not his greatest novel, but nice.
Surprisingly for such a prolific writer, Graham Greene only published two novels in the seventies: The Honorary Consul (1973) and The Human Factor (1978).
And of course there’s rivers of whiskey and a plot packed with action.Previously Greene labelled his fictional work as either novels or mere entertainments, but it appears he found this distinction ever more difficult to make and I assume that by the time he wrote The Honorary Consul he must have given up.
At times The Honorary Consul reads almost as a parody of Lowry’s masterwork.
Graham Greene is a literary giant and he has every right to be old-fashioned.
Кожен любить її по-своєму (хоча інколи й сам собі у цьому не зізнається).Дівчині ж взагалі усе байдуже, окрім шмоток чи темних окулярів (хоча, насправді, це тільки так здається - вона переживає, але того не показує)Кінець той самий: молодий гине, а дівчина залишається зі старшим.Паралельно - і сум, і гумор, і біль, і сарказм.Зауваження: Латинська Америка здається не справжньою, а «очима англійця».
Але сам Грін зізнається, що не знає гаїтянського побуту, хоч і багато разів бував у країні.
До того, він ходив до іспаномовної школи.Річ, мабуть, у тому, що Грем Грін - 100% етнічний англієць що виріс у Англії, у 100% англійському середовищі, сприймав англійську (і англійськість) як щось натуральне.
Reading a book like this one, I find myself willing even to go back and read his big god novels again, the ones that don't really interest me.
A book like this one, I'm willing to forgive him everything.One of the high points is the mediocre Argentine novelist.
Watching Doctor Saaveda reach for eth glass with his white hair, in his pearl-grey suit and his brightly polished shoes, Doctor Plarr felt much the same astonishment that he had felt in the barrio of teh poor when he saw a young girl emerge in an immculate white dress from a waterless hovel of mud and tin.
Greene já me conquistara com 'O Fim da Aventura' - e foi, aliás, pelo que esta obra me ofereceu que uma edição novinha em folha, antiga e muito bonita d'O Cônsul Honorário' não me escapou nos alfarrabistas da Feira do Livro. Nem sei porque demorei tanto tempo a reflectir e a querer escrever sobre ele, depois de o ter lido quase de uma assentada. Mas tinha de de escrever, de uma forma ou de outra, pela experiência que é conhecer as histórias e as personagens de Greene.texto completo emhttp://leiturasmarginais.blogspot.pt/...
