https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/887495.Collected_Stories_of_Guy_De_Maupassant
Guy de Maupassant is very likely the greatest short story writer who ever lived. His gift for capturing whole worlds in just a few pages is without equal. He had the most astonishing imagination allied to a perfect grasp of language. His writing is superbly disciplined, his visual sense is such that he can make you see the scenes he is describing in your mind's eye, and his sense of character is such that the people in his stories are living, breathing, believable characters. Nothing is perfect, but Maupassant comes close.
A collection of vivid, lively stories, some of which contain colorful, rich characters, interacting with each other, revealing an aspect of life.
Perhaps ‘told’ isn’t the right word, much of the time for Guy de Maupassant’s stories.
In spite of the flaws and how miserable his stories made me (if cruelty to animals bothers you, beware), Guy de Maupassant’s prose has power and passion.
(This remains my favorite story by Maupassant.) Taking into account the strengths and weaknesses of this collection of tales as a whole, I give this book three stars.
'Mademoiselle Fifi'In this short story Guy de Maupassant describes the Prussian soldiers who have seized the château as crude, destructive, and rather stupid men who don't value the manor or its beautiful furniture and costly paintings and art objects.
Nearly all of them are violent, brutish womanizers, possibly the worst of these men is the short and slender Count Wilhelm von Eyrick, whom the other soldiers nickname ''Mademoiselle Fifi.'' Fifi is angry that the priest of the local church won't ring the bell at the usual times.
Endles stories of seduction, and betrayal. Women are unfathomable playthings. I realize that he was writing about the culture and social set he was involved in, but it was all too much for me. He died of syphilis - I understand why.
The problem with all those best of collections is that you sometimes miss out on some really amazing things just because the person responsible for putting together the book didn't think they were that great.
Also, some ratings change after I read the book for the second (or third) time; nowadays I tend to appreciate some things a lot more than I used to.
That's pretty much all I can say.5 stars: These are the great works that have left a huge impression on me, that are really well written or manage to be so enjoyable that I can look past some flaws (think Looking for Alaska).Some books deserve more than 5 stars.
Meh.I don't see the hype. Ball-of-Fat is told well but, it lacks suspense. I love the social commentary but, it just didn't make it for me. Maupassant also uses sex as a plot device often. Nowadays, in this secular culture, what was once edgy, is now rather tame. Nothing worth reading. But, props for beautiful imagery and poetic language.
Reading these short stories is a joy. I prolonged it for as long as I could, its over. These stories are ahead of its time and a lot of them question social norms and still deliver a delightful plot.
All a little different - had read The Necklace (surprise ending) and wanted to read more of him.
masterful short stories
geniales relatos cortos
Perfection of the short story. His ability to note what was going on around him is supreme. I realize that for an observant author every big or small event that occurs lends itself to the compactness of a story with a moral, a laugh, a comment, an unexpected outcome. Learning to guess the game of where a story is going is great fun with a master like Guy de Maupassant. Nothing more relaxing than a volume of best short stories.
This book cannot be reviewed by mortals. I have read hundreds of short story collections- none quite as rich in variety and amazing in character portrayal as Maupassant's tales. I think I need to come up with a superlative for LOVE to describe what infinite reverence and affection I feel for the writer and his work.
Dora's book group selection January 2010.
I love de Maupassant's stories: fun, insightful, a little naughty. One of my perennial favorites.
My favorite short story author
Guy de Maupassant is one of my most favorite short story authors. His writing is crisp, concise, imaginative and very poetic. I am very glad I stumbled upon him in college. Became an instant fan!
(Reading exercise in French. Only keeping track for learning process)## Notes 6/27 L'âme étrangere.
Because I enjoy immersing myself in a fictional universe and living there a while, I am not a huge fan of short stories. These stories are very well written, of course.
Love the work here. Read many translations of this wonderful author.
Absolutely loved it. Paul's Mistress is probably among my favorite short stories, Maupassant is really an amazing writer. I wish I could read them in French!
