https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/460607.Mystery_Behind_the_Wall
This was a older book and the pictures were well..... something else.
I wanted to reread what I thought was the original story in the series that my teacher had read to me when I was in 3rd grade.
Upon doing this they discover a journal hidden behind the wall left by a former occupant, a young girl named Stephanie.
The boys, accompanied by the other children, follow the clues that lead them to some local shops and around the old house itself.
The story follows the children on their treasure hunt and how they figure each of the clues out.My review of the book is...
Of COURSE they found a secret 40 year old scavenger hunt in their own house and all the clues led to the actual treasure that was still there and some of the people were still alive and hadn't moved and helped them. I'm glad as a child my suspension of disbelief bought into this. Still, it's sweet. ;0)
I got this book as an out of date book from our school library and decided to read it with my child. It was written in 1973, and I guess I didn't realize how much more lax our speaking has become. The conversations sounded so much more formal 40ish years ago. Cute little "mystery" about some hidden coins that the kids have to go on a scavenger hunt to find.
This mystery was in the form of a treasure hunt. It was an interesting story.
my favorite character was Benny cause he loves to eat like me nothing surprised me i would not change the ending
When a friend comes to visit the kids learn the secrets of Grandpa's house and find riddles to a treasure.
Another mildly diverting Boxcar "mystery." This would definitely be more entertaining for children.
First, just like in Tree House Mystery, Benny gets a new playmate.
First, Grandfather reminds the children, "You must remember that the boy comes from Canada and he will not talk exactly the way we do." Then, Rory remarks to Benny that he (Benny) talks funny, "You say 'about the house,' and I say 'aboot the hoose.'" Hee hee.
The original owners of a house apparently left things behind with the idea that they might one day return.
As a reader, I could follow along and solve the mystery just before the children figured it out.
Rating: 3.5The Boxcar Children are out of school for the summer, and Benny is already bored.
When Benny and Rory decide to make a telegraph system through a hole in the back of their adjoining closets, they discover a journal that leads all of the children to clues that will help them find some missing coins.
The Boxcar Children series is a good, easy to read, chapter book beginning mystery series.
The series has a reading level of mid third to fourth grade.
Children who enjoy the Encyclopedia Brown mystery series would enjoy this one as well.
As with my coat hall closet search for Narnia spurred by reading The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe I repeatedly felt the bedroom wall for a "mystery" like that encountered by the Alden children. Alas! It was not to be. Nevertheless, this volume was a particular favorite as it evoked much trepidation causing me to burrow further beneath the bed covers, swallowing the book whole in less than a day.
This may be a silly book to have on my list but it was my favorite of the Boxcar Children series. Full of mystery and fun. I remember wishing I lived in a house that was previously occupied so I could find a mystery like the one in this book. Anyway, I purchased the book for nostalgic purposes. Of course it is a better read when you are younger but I rated as though I was still young... it did take me back.
In this book, it's cool because it all starts when Benny is having a vacation. But he doesn't know where to go on vacation, so he invites a person over from Canada. They make a teleport. One knock means "are you awake"? Two knocks means "yes". No answer means they're asleep. My sister and I do the same knocking code sometimes at Grandma's house. It's a really cool book.
I liked Boxcar children Mystery Behind the Wall. It's where they invited a friend from Canada and they were looking for a coin collection. They found it in a picture of a house. There were tons of clues that they had to find first. They found a bag that was supposed to hold coins behind the wall. Then they had somebody who knew coins a lot to come and look at the collection.
This was a good book.I used to love The Boxercar Children. They were really good books when I was in about 2nd grade and up. They have a good plat line are sometimes funny and all around a good read. Anyway I recommened this book to all younger kids. ~Bookworm~
A good series for the young reader.
The mystery is so fun to read.Read the book to find out the thing behind the wall.
One of my favorite childhood series. I read over a hundred of them. The first 50 or so were in order; after that I read whatever book I could get my hands on :)
Another favorite. I love old secrets hidden in walls. :) Rory's a nice addition to the usual group as well.
Read at school
Fun little mystery book that young students would enjoy
great when ur little
X2
The Boxcar Children = most read series between the ages of 6 and 9 for me. I think of these fondly. Every child should read this series.
This was a very quick read.
Warner, Gertrude C. PB
they found a letterfrom a girl who livied at there grandfarthers house
I LOVED these books growing up!
I love this book because of the fun game they play. When I was younger I played it with my siblings.
This book was ok it was a little weird (no offense)
