https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21484.The_Winds_of_War
Again, all this is illustrated in Follett’s “Century Trilogy.” Herman Wouk's solution to this tension is to say screw it, and super-size both the history and the fictional drama of the turbulent years leading up to America's involvement in World War II.
I'm supposed to mix a passable martini.'Wouk is less successful using excerpts from a fictional nonfiction book called World's Empire Lost, written by the fictional German General Armin van Roon, and translated by the fictional Pug Henry.
Wouk uses these excerpts to set the historical stage, and if you are a neophyte to this period, I suppose it's helpful.
Winds of War isn't my favorite book of the (almost dwindled) year.
The main cast is the Henry family.
All of which has World War 2 as a canvass.
Bloodshed doesn't happen by the buckets here.
The best thing about this book is the twists.
I hated the Uncle Jastrow and had contempt for the disillusioned and delusional main character, Victor Henry.
So I had a blast living with this book for a couple of weeks.
I want to know what happens next.
Which means that the sequel theoretically can be as good as this book.
The story of the lead-up to WWII told primarily through the lens of the American Henry family, The Winds of War gives a comprehensive background on the military and political situation in a much more engaging way than a non-fiction book could.
I was sad to turn the last page, although since we were only at Pearl Harbor, I knew we still had a ways to go.The Winds of War was published in 1971, apparently after approximately 13 years of research and writing, meaning Wouk got started on it in 1958.
I will definitely be moving on to War and Remembrance.
I know this is a book review, but the mini-series played a big part in why I read this and so I must digress a bit.One thing that I have always read is that TV shows or movies always seem to get the ages wrong on the participants in these historic events.
I will take a bit of a break now because the next book in the series is over 1050 pages long on my Kindle and for now the Henry family can blaze away in defense of America and democracy and I will catch up with their saga later.
Though I may hesitate to call the book "enlightening", I'd probably feel comfortable describing it as "broadening", particularly regarding the range of viewpoints on various players' roles and motives in the war.
I enjoyed it enough to have already begun the follow-up novel, War & Remembrance and I'll soon enough read his Pulitzer winner, The Caine Mutiny.Finally, and perhaps most importantly, I found it particularly enlightening, in light of the current state of American and European realpolitik, to learn how Roosevelt was viewed by many at the time vs.
A fascinating contrast, and particularly pertinent at this moment in history.
This story, told through the eyes and lives of a Navy family, begins in 1939 and ends right after the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941.
It’s certainly not a quick read.
It’s not great literature, but the story and portrayal of characters are what made it for me.
I especially loved the patriarch of the family, Victor “Pug” Henry – strong, upright, old school, my type of man.
I know that others reading this may not appreciate my generalization, but oh well.
The cover says.."Grand..Grandiose..Compelling" and I must agree wholeheartedly I just finished this huge classic wonderful piece of engrossing fiction based on the beginning of WWII history. It begins in 1939. Vicariously through a military family named the Henry's, we get more than a birds eye view of how things manifested. In this book, I swear, every page you feel as though you must have taken a trip back in time. I chose this book because I'm quite attracted to WWII fiction but I wanted to
I just finished this huge classic wonderful piece of engrossing fiction based on the beginning of WWII history.
In this book, I swear, every page you feel as though you must have taken a trip back in time.
I chose this book because I'm quite attracted to WWII fiction but I wanted to read something where someone tells me why?
I have the second book and look forward to starting it soon.
This book stops at 1941 as the Henry's and the United States get into the war.
I look forward to the second book to learn more about my country's involvement and the Henry's in the war.
This novel was well worth every one of its 850 plus pages. I loved how Wouk presented all sides of WWII and how the countries involved made the choices they did. What a wonderful history lesson... camouflaged in a great story. In many ways this reminded me a lot of a Ken Follett novel. Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful.
Those fictional "excerpts" from the also fictional German general's memoirs placed at the start of each part and before certain chapters are obviously just an excuse to indulge in lecturing on history and Germany and America's role in WWII.
That's unbelievable and robs the saga of credibility; the author should've limited himself to placing the main leads on a single major theatre with just occasional incursions into the others instead of making him stumble into everyone everywhere from Europe to America to Asia.
WOW.
I liked this one.
(More than I thought I would.) It is historical fiction WWII.
I first read this author's The Caine Mutiny not long ago and I really enjoyed the ease of his writing.
So I picked this one up and thought the same thing.
I loved the writing and that this book was about war AND people.
The war strategies, the thoughts, the fear, and the willingness to step up and step in, were well done here.
So I just bought the second book a few minutes ago and will start that one today.
I would have liked it more if it hadn't turned so blatantly into a soap-opera. You'll probably find it interesting but you'll also probably be exasperated by some of the characters. This I suppose speaks to how well they're written....but it's still a soap opera. This was a big series in it's time and the attempt to wind a romance into WWII including the Jewish population and the concentration camp death camp experience didn't work that well for me.
Lengthy monologues about history.
I do love reading about history but I prefer to do that in non-fiction rather than being lectured in fiction.
I just didn't love it.As for the audio - I listened to this guy on The Caine Mutiny and didn't have any issues.
The weird thing was that he needs to take a breath in odd places and it actually changes the meaning of the sentence or your understanding of who is talking.
He's also excellent with accents but not with voices, which created some additional confusion over who was talking at times.
This book ends shortly after Pearl Harbor and War and Remembrance takes up the story from there.
Mr Wouk masterfully interweaves the fictional Henry family into the events of WWII.
They interact with the real characters of the War including FDR, Hitler and Churchill.
Mr Wouk allows the fictional and real characters to interact in so many small ways that it is easy to forget which characters are real.
Before I read this book the first time I knew very little about WWII.
I have read many, many books about the war since.
Anyway, here are my impressions:What sinks this book (more than the miniseries) is not the way Pug Henry is everywhere all at once, or even how completely admirable he is as a character.
The one thing that comes across when Wouk writes about America is disdain for the culture, the education, and the religious values of America itself.
As a Jew he wants Nazism stopped, for obvious reasons, but he resents secular culture and secular values.
He resents minority groups in America, such as women, blacks, and teenagers.
Just arrived from Australia through BM.What a magnificent book, one of the best books on World War II I have ever read.This first volume tells the saga of Victor "Pug" Henry, a middle-aged Naval officer and confidant of the President Franklin Delano Roosevelt.In my opinion, the main point of this book is the accurate description of the development of World War II, starting with the Nazi's occupation in Poland.
Russian's fight was the following historical event and this volume ends with the Pearl Harbor attack.Foreword:Peace, if it ever exists, will not be based on the fear of war, but on the love of peace.
Beginning with World War II in WINDS OF WAR and followed by WAR AND REMEMBRANCE these spellbinding narratives encompass the global events and battles in great and fascinating detail while wrapping the story around a single American family surrounded by war.Mr. Wouk’s amazing accomplishment is without equal when writing about all the tragedy, the heroism, the horror, and the romance the fast paced drama and the patriotism in this astounding book and its sequel.THE WINDS OF WAR was made into a very successful TV miniseries in 1983 starring Robert Mitchum.
WAR AND REMEMBRANCE was made into an also very successful TV miniseries in 1988 starring Robert Mitchum.
Yes, the protagonist's life is far too well-connected, and it takes quite a suspension of disbelief to accept Pug Henry's vast experience as being anything close to realisitic.
However, once you do jump over that hurdle, what you find is a completely engrossing, well-written historical drama.
What I think I admired most about this epic story is Herman Wouk's ability to create so many different characters, while giving each their own distinct voices and personas--the actual historical figures as well as Wouk's own creations.
It is a rare thing to read a book about so many people, and not have many of them "sound" the same.
This was a joy to read.
Dear readers worldwide, together with Mr. Wouk's agent I would like to come to some information that you can help me with... We need to found out who was the latest publisher of various Mr. Wouk's titles in your countries, the year of publication and the name of translator... Any information you give us will be of great help. Thank you in advance! Best wishes, TeaPS. Please, send me those information via Inbox... :)
This is the first book to read, followed by War and Remembrance.
I was a baby when WWII broke out and my Dad was a sailor who went to New Guinea.
I wanted to know more about it than can be found in an ordinary history book.
The author was true to facts and places, fleshing out the events with believable characters.
I loved reading these two books for their facts and for the pure pleasure of reading really good books.
I had visited Normandie in France, Poland, two of the death camps, Pearl Harbor, and Italy.
These books really put it all together for me.
The book, made into a popular miniseries in 1983, follows the events leading up to the US entry into WWII by following one Navy family.
In particular, the concept of "it's not what you know, but who knows you." I saw one reviewer critique the many opportunities given to Pug just because the President encountered him once and trusted him.
At one point, I felt I had been reading for the actual duration of WWII.
There were whole sections "cut" from a German General's book that Pug translated.
Those were such a slog I ended up skimming them.Overall, a decent read...but it only deserved 498 pages of my reading budget.
I picked this as my assigned book report option in high school about 40 years ago.
This was a great, very long book (45 + hrs on audio) that is less than half the story of the American involvement before and during WWII.
Wouk also explains much of the complex politics that kept the US out of the war for so long and the reasons much of the world did not believe the stories of the atrocities occurring towards the Jewish peoples and many others in Europe and especially the Russian front.
While almost everything that happens in the book has some parallel in actual events, having all these things happen to one family is a bit too much.
When the war begins the Henrys' younger son Byron is trapped in Poland in front of the advancing German army, with a girl, Natalie Jastrow who decided on a whim that she wanted to visit her Polish cousins in the village from which her parents had emigrated.
Such things happened, and they happened to many families, and it is something of this that Wouk manages to convey in his book, while maintaining a high level of historical accuracy.
Winds of War, a novel set in the years leading up to WWII and the bombing of Pearl Harbor, filters history through one phenomenally connected US naval family.
Somehow this slight fictionalization, the mere addition of a smaller human story to the gargantuan political one, provides the right amount of perspective to make this an interesting (and educational) book about History.
Byron's Jewish wife, of course, "needs" to stay in Europe to presumably bear witness to the horrors of the Holocaust in Wind's follow-up volume, War and Remembrance, and so she spends 800 pages of this book battling bureaucratic red tape and unlucky coincidences.
Another thing generally ignored in our Hollywood version of history is how opposed Americans were to entering WWII before Pearl Harbor and how FDR had to be very clever to deal with that in a way that prevented the risk of Hitler taking over the world.
And I could go on with examples of the wisdom of Wouk.The main takeaway for me was that American democracy was much stronger back then.
Wouk has many characters comment (as a criticism) on how FDR never moved more than an inch ahead of public opinion.
Maybe it's because Americans don't feel that politicians represent the people anymore.
Had I not known the book's genre I would taken for granted the book to be non-fiction, how dumb isn'
I will not try to tell the short version of this story other than to say that is about a family with the good fortune of having connections to all the important events of WWII.
Improbable but meaningful tensions are what novels are all about, right?
Does everyone have to smoke?Astounding connections abound.
Trips to the White House and the front lines of the Soviets trying to hold back the invasion of the Germans and more historic events are all covered by on the scene reporting, often including written summaries and analysis sent directly by diplomatic pouch to Roosevelt by our patriarch.
This book is an excellent chronicle of the events leading up to WWII, using fictional characters to personalize the telling of the story.
While the accuracy and detail of the history is amazing, my problem was with the characters, and (what I saw as) the lack of anything particularly exciting or even interesting in what was happening in their lives.
All the lead-up to Pearl Harbor and the onset of America's active participation in the war was well told, but then, with respect to the characters - nothing.Maybe it was just me.
Did any of you catch the Sunday morning interview on CBS with Herman Wouk? This wonderful gentleman is now 102 years of age and still active. I have loved his books, and especially this one from my Top 10 list! Here's the link to the interview on You Tube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lTuvw...
What a wonderful read!
The writing is wonderful and the plot is a page turner without overriding the characters.
This was my first time reading Wouk and I understand his popularity.
He composes quite the page turner while maintaining a character driven story.
Wouk is a master and show-don't-tell and what he left unsaid always impressed me almost as what he did describe.
Every few chapters you'll find a brief war summary which is helpful for us armchair historians.
The main character, Pug, translates a best selling German perspective of the war (postwar) and it's presented every few chapters as events unfold to provide the German perspective.
Start reading!
Simply amazing. Never have I read a more comprehensive narrative of World War Two. Not only did I fall in love with the Henry Family, but the amount of historical context in this book is incredible. I've learned so much. I'm going to be thinking about this book for a long time. I can't wait to read the sequel. I would highly recommend this book to anyone. But be aware, it's very long and packed full of history so read it with patience, the pay off is huge!
