https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/876138.The_Virgin_and_the_Gipsy
I have read almost everything D.H. Lawrence wrote, loved all of it, and thought I had seen his best, that is until I picked up this short novel. It was found and published after his death, and in my view it may be his best work. His characters, especially his female characters, are some of the best in English literature, and that doesn’t change in this little jewel of repressed passion and temptation. 5 Stars.
The Virgin and the Gypsy is a rather short novel but it is deep and as turbulent as a whirlpool and it is the quintessential D.H. Lawrence “When the vicar's wife went off with a young and penniless man the scandal knew no bounds.
Why did she burst away with such an éclat of revulsion, like a touch of madness?”D.H. Lawrence knows the answer – he is one of the most experienced swimmers in the dark undercurrents of human psyche.Everyday life may easily turn into a prison – a cage of despotic upbringing, a gaol of conformity, a dungeon of religion, an oubliette of conventionalities…“In his eyes, she was just brazening out the depravity that underlay her virgin, tender, bird-like face.
IVicar's delinquent wife CynthiaYoung penniless man, (who Cynthia took off with)Arthur Saywell, the vicar/rector, aged 47 yearsLucille and Yvette, the vicar's two young daughtersThe Mater - Granny, the Vicar's mother, over 70 yearsAunt Cissie, the Vicar's sister, over 40Uncle Fred, the vicar's brother, aged 40Chapt.
64 'Yvette did not tell the rector or Granny about the Eastwards.
The anarchy extended to his humorous talk, and his secret thinking.
The rector sneeringly describes Major Eastward as 'the maquereau'.
Yvette doesn't know what that is, 'but felt the poison of the rectors fangs.'I looked up 'maquereau'.
H. Lawrence that shows his mastery in describing and displaying the complex nature of the human drives, relationships, and sexuality!
It is a daring story that - like many of his novels - addresses the hidden forces of the sexual drive and repression on person, which are pivotal in a materialistic world.
A major theme that is reminiscent of his major novel “Lady Chatterley’s Lover” is the role of the primitive forces, namely sex, in the human life and existence, which brings satisfaction and meaning to people’s life in the modern world.
An incredible multi-layered short story - such an ingenious ending, if you read it carefully.
She’s a rector’s daughter and is forced to cope with Mater, her domineering grandmother, and spinster Aunt, who consider her the reincarnation of her treacherous Mother.
(Picture a combination of Isabel Archer and Ursula Brangwen.) She’s passionate, her main desire being to find someone with whom she could fall desperately in love.
But then, she meets the gypsy.The power this gypsy holds over Yvette was what I considered disturbing and creepy.
Another thing I didn’t quite like, is that she knows he has a gypsy “wife” and children.
To Yvette, this revelation is negligible and doesn’t seem to matter.Another aspect of the book that was equally disconcerting is the book’s take on aging.
original read: 2008
عندما هربت زوجة القس مع شاب مفلس لم تعرف الفضيحة حدودا , كانت أعوام ابنتيها الصغريتين لاتتجاوز الساب
A very simple story elegantly told. The elegance grows out of an amazing level of skill at deploying language in an incremental, layered way; Lawrence literally titrates his depiction of the various characters or scenes, taking a word and repeating it in different contexts over a page or several pages until his portrayal achieves the desired level of completeness before moving on to the next person or scene. I was mesmerized by the technical mastery which perhaps only works when the story remains so simple, an allegory of passion, prejudice, and provincialism. A model for writers by a master....
THE VIRGIN AND THE GYPSY. (1930; this ed. 1955). D. H. Lawrence. **. This is a strange novella from Lawrence that was published after his death from tuberculosis in 1930 while in Italy. It had no chance for any editing on his part. It looks to me like it needed a lot. The story line was weak and the characterization was weaker. If I had to guess what it was about, and this is only an educated guess, I would say that it was about the sexual awakening of a young woman that never happened – unless
This is a strange novella from Lawrence that was published after his death from tuberculosis in 1930 while in Italy.
Her mother, referred to as “She-Who-Would-Be-Cynthia” ran off with another man years ago, leaving the Vicar and the girls in the lurch.
Of the two girls, Yvette was the bolder in her attitudes toward life.
On one of their outings, the girls meet up with a group of gypsies camped on the outskirts of the village.
They stop to talk with them and Yvette sees a swarthy stereotypical gypsy man among the group who gives her the eye.
Yvette sees him and talks with him for a while.
เรืองราวทีทำใหเขาใจวากรอบศีลธรรมของสังคมสามารถทำใหมนุษยสับสนในสัญชาตญาณของตัวเองได สับสนจนถึงขันตอตาน
เรื่องราวที่ทำให้เข้าใจว่ากรอบศีลธรรมของสังคมสามารถทำให้มนุษย์สับสนในสัญชาตญาณของตัวเองได้ สับสนจนถึงขั้นต่อต้าน
Okuduğum bir çok dönem romanını düşünerek yorum yaparsam eğer, kendi dönemi içerisinde değerlendirildiğinde gerçekten yankı uyandıracak bir kitap bu.
Aristokrasi söz konusu değil burada ama kilise var, kilise papazının kızı ve bir çingenenin hikayesi.
Kitap belki biraz daha uzun olsaydı okuyucuya bu durum daha net bir şekilde hissettirilebilirdi.
Ben dönemi az çok biliyorum, dolayısıyla kitap bana yeterli geldi.
Anneleri, babalarını başka bir adam için terk eden iki kız çocuğu.
Baba karakteri ise terk edilmişliği öyle sindirmiş ki, ezilmiş ve aslında olmayan gücünün, kendine saygı duymayışının sonucunda sinip kalmış bir adam.
Kızların küçüğü yani Yvette için dik kafalı diyebilirim ama kötü anlamda değil.
The more I reflect on this easy to read, enjoyable novella, the more I like it.
You just don't see it coming out this way, with the intrusion of mother nature, but then upon reflection, I see how Lawrence in his usual tender manner elevates human nature in all its raw goodness and passion into the domain of something spiritual.
THe note on the last page read: This work lacks the author's final revision, and has been printed form the manuscript exactly as it stands." Interesting.
It works wonderfully the way it is.
She could so easily have been portrayed as totally innocent and dreamy, yet Lawrence seemed to have a knack of accessing the feminine, of entering into real thoughts, real feelings of real women.
I can't help believing that there was a very feminine side to the man.Without giving too much away to others who haven't read the story, I thought that the last chapter led deliciously to the simply heavenly ending - nothing ruined or broken, no illusions to be shattered later - maybe the most perfect sort of romance.
I am not sure if I'm supposed to like him or revile him, all I know is I both enjoy his writing and find it frustrating at the same time, and wherever I become too frustrated I have to remind myself of what he was trying to achieve, a state whereby men and particularly women could be honest about their sexuality.
Yvette, the heroine, may come across as being hopelessly naive and downright annoying at times, but I still enjoyed reading this and found it quite powerful in places.
The ending was rather abrupt though, but I suppose that is to be expected from a novella.
Young Yvette Saywell is the free-spirited but sheltered daughter of a village rector in early twentieth century England.
Yearning for excitement and resisting the pressure to conform to her family's expectations, Yvette begins an affair with a charismatic gipsy.
Although this is a sensual story that focuses on forbidden romance, it is also very much about Self-discovery and Yvette's need to be true to herself, even if it means defying the conventions of society.
This is a compelling and unique story that fans of D.H. Lawrence will appreciate.Jennifer Leigh WellsAuthor of "Rebecca: The Making of a Hollywood Classic"
ชอบตอนจบ ชอบตัวละคร ดี.เอช.ลอวเรนซ สรางตัวละครไดเจงมาก
ชอบตอนจบ ชอบตัวละคร ดี.เอช.ลอว์เรนซ์ สร้างตัวละครได้เจ๋งมาก
Note: I can usually appreciate a story for what it is regardless of its socio-political context.
Fine, oh wait no in making her a protagonist I will give her no other redeeming qualities whilst paralleling her to gypsies in order to comment badly against their oppressed race.
* sexism everywhere, fine appropriate for context (i guess, not really)* racist* anti-semitic (referring to a character as a Jewess, mentioning her name once or not even once, not going to check) * classist - oh I'm angsty about my bourgeoisie lifestyle, I have two selves one in which I can be a gypsy without all of the oppression.
One day, a gispy camp came to town and the girls went to get their fortunes told and that's how Yvette meets the dark, handsome, forbidden gipsy.It felt like the sweet sexualisation of a teenage girl and her fascination with the gipsy man who, by the way, was married and has kids.
It was quite annoying to read because it's like she can't make up her mind.It was rather short, so it felt like a novella and the story didn't seem complete but perhaps it is due to the fact that this was published after the author died so he couldn't really do anything about it.
This posthumously published tale by D.H. Lawrence carries many themes typical to its author.
Desire for freedom, societal and familial oppression, intolerance and the burning force of individual desires battle and create a simple but provocative piece of fiction.The story is about Yvette and Lucille, two young sisters who live under constant observation by their vicar father, an old grandmother and her spiteful daughter.
The order and discipline are stifling the girls, until Yvette meets a young gypsy man and his family.
Her every exposure to life leaves her harder; “She lost her illusions in the collapse of her sympathies.” She loathes the rectory “with a loathing that consumed her life.”The most hated person in the Saywell family is the rector’s ancient, blind mother, called “The Mater” or “Granny.” Yvette hates her.
Like the toad that snaps its jaws on all the bees exiting the hive and devouring all life around it, The Mater, who gave literal life to the family, absorbs the entire family’s energy and life force.
The gardener smashes the toad with a stone in oblique foreshadowing of The Mater’s fate.
Despite other reviewers, I really like this Lawrence's novella.Free download available at eBooks@Adelaide
He comes to sell his wares and when her nasty Aunt Cissie is showing it to her father he invites her to visit on Friday.She rides her bike there and the old Gypsy tells her to look for the talking water.Her mother ran off with a younger man, and her father and his family see aspects of her mother in her and condemn her for it.
Suddenly while sitting next to a river near her home she hears the water bubbling, it is talking to her, it starts to become wilder, she sees the gypsy man coming in the distance yelling her name.
Ma ciò che concesse al guardaboschi con Lady eccetera ( nella realtà il giardiniere della casa a Taormina con cui si sollazzò Frieda von Richthofen, moglie in calore del nostro ), manco lontanamente viene concesso allo zingaro, cittadino inglese a tutti gli effetti, con la ragazzina della canonica in calore a sua insaputa.Onde per cui il D.H. Lawrence non può essere accusato di classimo ma di razzismo sì ( 'razzista spirituale', dice De felice).
A tender tale told with lightness-of-touch; embrace passion, live free.
Second time I've read this book. Entertaining and quite insightful book of religious and class prejudice from that time, that can actually resonate to current times.
In the initial chapter we learn that when Yvette and her elder sister Lucille were younger, their father, a vicar, was abandoned by Cynthia who abruptly took flight with a younger man: she had recognised 'the worm which was his heart's core'.
For Yvette's family, all base-born excepting Lucille, Cynthia's flight was inexplicable: just madness, or badness.
Their father is now a rector, and their home in the north of England; the family includes Aunt Cissie, Uncle Fred and Granny, all huddled together in the rectory home.Decoding the characters, especially with regard to the aforementioned polarisation, is key to understanding and appreciating this story.
Sin embargo, Lawrence puede resultar más incómodo, puesto que más que hablar de la supervivencia entre las bestias del bosque, habla sobre la resistencia frente a otro tipo de bestia: la sociedad hipócrita y conservadora que pretende domesticar al ser humano, arrancándole los dientes y poniéndole una soga en el cuello.La joven Ivette, personaje principal de este relato, sufre el adiestramiento condicionador de la sociedad.
An excellent and enjoyable novella about a dysfunctional family. It puts forward clearly Lawrence's somewhat unusual and forthright views on female sexuality, but I'd say it's suitable for teens as well as adults. Makes you think.
Yvette, a British gal from a bourgeois family (the kind that says things like "frightfully," "perfectly beastly" all the time) finds herself attracted to the 'Exotic Other,' in this case a traveling gipsy [sic].
The main characters for the most part are types rather than fully-fledged human beings, and this is further not helped in that Lawrence paints the bourgeois family, including Yvette, with such obvious contempt from the get-go, and lays it on thick.
