https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140354.Double_Sin_and_Other_Stories

Double Sin and Other Stories, first published in 1961, contains eight short stories that were previously published elsewhere. With the exception of the silly “The Dressmaker’s Doll” and the predictable “The Last Séance,” all of the stories are enjoyable, particularly the final one, “Sanctuary.”And, yes, Hercule Poirot and Miss Jane Marple make some appearances. Lastly, I listened to an audiobook of this book, and all of the narrators — particularly Simon Vance, Joan Hickson, and David Suchet — did a fabulous job.
Double Sin - 4/5: I was about halfway through this short story when I distinctly remembered watching it on Agatha Christie's Poirot about a few months back.
That's how I feel about these short stories with Poirot.
They're all just fun little mysteries that you can read in one sitting without having to keep track of too many characters or plots.The Dressmaker's Doll - 4/5: Well, that one certainly wasn't a mystery.
Since this was a Miss Marple mystery and I've never been a huge fan of her stories, it fell a touch flat, but I did like it.
Really great classic Agatha Christie. I was surprised to discover a few stories were less mystery and more gothic/horror. Between Agatha Christie and Alfred Hitchcock, can you beat the English for knowing what's supremely creepy?
Entertaining and fun, an Agatha Christie is always a treat during a month of reading. Poirot and Miss Marple had stories, plus some creepier tales.
I racconti della bambola e della medium mi hanno un po' lasciata perplessa, non sembrano proprio racconti della Christie e non mi aspettavo questo tocco di soprannaturale.
This is a mixed group, some featuring her well known characters and some featuring none. Many of the stories appear in other of her published works. Featured in this edition are:Double SinWasp's NestThe Theft of the Royal Ruby (a.k.a The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding)The Dressmaker's DollGreenshaw's FollyThe Double ClueThe Last SeanceSanctuary
My favorite would definitely be the The Thief of the Ruby Stone which is a Poirot story.
The play the kids set up for Hercule Poirot is kind of funny, though it reminded me of a movie that sounds exactly like it (but it's a new film, so they might have gotten the idea elsewhere).
Well played Poirot, well played.
I didn't like the story of The Dressmaker's Doll and The Last Seance.
They somehow do not tie up well with the other stories.
They somehow doesn't make sense to me.There'r also Miss Marple stories but I personally prefer Hercule Poirot.
Several fascinating mysteries and even a few ghost stories, which was a pleasant surprise. I had no idea that Christie wrote ghost/supernatural stories. My favorites mysteries were two of the Poirot tales: Wasp’s Nest, The Theft of the Royal Ruby, and the very interesting Ms. Marple story Sanctuary. I also very much enjoyed The Dressmaker’s Doll, which was a classic English style ghost story very elegantly told. Some were weaker than others, but not a bad story in the bunch. Very enjoyable collection.
Poirot just happened to be in the right spot to see a clue at least three times.Theft of the Royal Ruby, or The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding**** - I really like this fun story when Poirot is forced to spend a traditional English Christmas at King's Lacey.
(hide spoiler)]The Dressmaker's Doll* - Odd story in which several women try to remember when the doll first showed up.
Christopher Lee's over-dramatic acting didn't help.Sanctuary***** - What a relief to hear Joan Hickson's calm voice after the last one.
They all did a good job and their voices fit the different types of stories, though I thought Christopher Lee over-emoted.
An odd collection of mysteries, everything from the usual Poirot and Miss Marple stories to two creepy, supernatural stories quite out of the usual for Christie. As usual, her short stories are a delight.
All these stories are in other collections. I had read them already.
Meh. This wasn't a great collection of short stories (nothing like The Regatta Mystery), but it also wasn't the worst Christie I've read. "The Dressmaker's Doll" and "The Last Seance" were the only truly awful stories, the rest were ok. Overall feelings = meh.
Short story collections are so hard to rate. A few of the stories were great, but most were awful. They were like half formed things.
This set of stories is great---vintage Agatha Christie.
3.5/5
This time the fabulous readings by Christopher Lee, David Suchet, the lispy Joan Hickson, and other fabulous actors were so good I am inclined to re-listen rather than be disappointed by whatever I try next.
I've a suspicion that I first read this book more than 30 years ago, and perhaps that's why I could tell you the creepy doll story, Poirot's Christmas adventure with the pudding, and the seemingly idiot girl traveling to sell miniatures, not to mention Bunch intercepting a dying man asking for sanctuary in the church, as though they were my own memories.2009: Not only mysteries, but gentle horror as well (I guess "creepies" isn't a real reader's advisory term.) Reminiscent of those Hitchcock compilations with a nice balance of Hercule Poirot, Miss Marple, and generic creepies.
Short stories can be good when you have been reading novels/novellas and these are decent. The two "supernatural" stories do not really make the impression I think they meant to, especially the seance one which you could see the ending coming a mile away. Also, I think since they are shorter, it is easier to guess the outcomes for all of them.
Una raccolta interessante di storie con due personaggi ricorrenti della Christie.Sono presenti anche racconti senza un detective predefinito, dai quali traspare l'interesse dell'autrice per l'elemento paranormale.
Reminded me why I love Christie. What a fantastic bunch of stories; plus, The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding came at just the right time. :D
Ar ieškote laimės? O gal gerų detektyvinių istorijų? Patekote ten kur ir reikia.Telieka tik perskaityti
enjoyable. odd to read non mystery stories from her tho. the doll story was very good...and very creepy
واقعا جالب و پر از داستان های مهیج و زیبا بود
This is a set of short stories written by Agatha Christie.
In this book, you will enjoy both Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple use their knowledge of how people tick either by experience or their little grey cells to solve murders.
This book also contains two short stories of horror and the unexplained.
These are definitely not a cozy mystery but are really charming to break up the stories of steady murder and mayhem.I have never read a story of horror by Agatha Christie.
I am going to find more short stories by Agatha Christie and give them a read.
This short story collection is a very good introduction to Agatha Christie.
This short story exemplifies why her work is still enjoyed by so many.
:Poirot and ChristieOne of Christie’s later regrets was that Hercule Poirot began his literary life too mature: "the result is that my fictional detective is well over a hundred by now." And it is no secret that character and author did not always see eye to eye.“There are moments when I have felt: ‘Why-why-why did I ever invent this detestable, bombastic, tiresome little creature?’….
In a small country church, an uninvited stranger is discovered sprawled at the altar.
In this superb collection of treats for mystery lovers, both the indomitable English gentlewoman, Miss Marple, and the inimitable Belgian detective, Hercule Poirot, put their power to the test."~~ back cover'The Dressmaker's Doll' ("a doll in green velvet is found every morning, seated in a different chair") is a departure from most of the rest of Ms. Christie's work -- much more reminiscent of Ruth Rendall.
The rest of the stories were pure Christie, and very enjoyable.
"Agatha Christie was the greatest exponent of the classical detective story. Her unique literary talents have crossed every boundary of age, race, class, geography and education. While she refined the template for a fictional form, the reading of her books became an international pastime." John CurranI started reading and collecting Agatha Christie books when I was 9 years old. I adored her books and still do. There is a great comfort, as an adult, in reading her books and acute observations of people that favours style over the penny horrors of sadism, torture, and graphic violence favoured by some authors.
This collection contains several stories which appeared earlier--including one called "The Theft of the Royal Ruby," which is renamed from a British collection called The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding, in which it was the title story. it also has two of my least favorite Christie offerings ever: supernatural stories, one about a doll and one about a seance. I never liked dolls--even when I was a kid; I think they're creepy. A supernatural story about a doll is about the worst thing I can imagine. (Needless to say: there are a lot of movies I don't go see.)
The best collection of Christie's short stories I've read so far. A good mix of creepy, supernatural, and standard red herring mysteries. Some of the stories are left with unanswered questions, but I think that works in a short story. The story about the Dressmaker's Doll was especially gripping. The stories feature both Poirot and Miss Marple.Audiobook notes: Each story was read by a different narrator. They were all good, but I think I'll read anything that is performed by Christopher Lee.
Enjoyable, though I’d read Greenshaw’s Folly in at least two other collections. The story about the medium was ... dispiriting. Sorry, I had to go there. But I read the last sentence and cried, “That’s it?” It had so much potential, potential that evaporated faster than ectoplasm. The other supernatural story, about a doll — and let’s face it, all dolls are creepy — could have had a stronger end, but it was still enjoyable.
