https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/759517.Hard_to_Be_a_God
“If I could imagine myself as God, I’d become him!”“Well, what if you had the chance to advise God?”The premise of this story seems like a grand adventure.
Scientists and observers from a future paradise earth infiltrate and study other earth-like planets.
He was Stalin's chief of police, mass murder, and pedophilic rapist.But even with the political roots of this story, it asks more discomforting questions about the 'course' of history, the development of human societies, and can be applied to many times and many places.
Rating: 4* of fiveThe Publisher Says: Don Rumata has been sent from Earth to the medieval kingdom of Arkanar with instructions to observe and to save what he can.
With his doubt and compassion, and his deep love for a local girl named Kira, Rumata wants to save the kingdom from the machinations of Don Reba, the first minister to the king.
In common with a lot of SF written in that era, we don't get a lot of well-drawn characters; in this case only one, Don Rumata himself.What makes this a classic, then?
It's such a unique & nuanced look at the past human and social condition, yet so relevant to the present time for both.
What's best is that it has a fantastical feel, yet there is nothing unreal about it - other than the existence of another planet with a human society ;)The main theme of this book and one aptly identified in the title Hard to Be a God is how the advanced human beings from earth should react to the harsh human conditions that exist within the more primitive race of humans on the planet.
The authors do a good job in accurately portraying this truth.I highly recommend this book for those who love fantasy, but maybe want to read something a little more scholastic.
"Bütün belalar, kardeşler, bütün belalar şu okumuşlardan çıkıyor! Önce gelmiş parayla saadet olmaz, diyorlar, sonra köylü dediğin de insan evladıdır; sonra küfre varan maniler, peşinden ayaklanma... Hepsini asacaksın bunların, kardeş! Mesela ben olsam ne mi yapardım? Evvela sorardım: Okuman yazman var mı? Öyleyse doğru darağacına!"
It was said that this was the very place to which the ancient Pekh would come every twelve years to deliver his offspring, after which he would immediately crawl beneath the hut and expire, so the hut’s entire cellar was filled with black poison.
He came home completely incoherent, and after he recovered a little, said that the hut was full of bright light and that a man with his feet on the bench sat behind a crude table and guzzled from a barrel held in one hand.
If man didn’t have such patience and endurance, all good people would have long since perished, and only the wicked and soulless would be left in this world.
I saw thematic similarities with some of Iain Banks’ Culture novels, especially Inversions, and Kage Baker’s Company series.The story deals with a ‘deep’ agent from an advanced civilization, who is supposed to observe and record the feudal society he’s been planted in, without interfering.
However, the society he’s working in is on the verge of a shift from feudalism to fascism.
However, their vision is not all starry-eyed: the world of Arkanar and its Inquisitorial brutalities are very clearly parallel to abuses and purges from Russia’s history.Highly recommended – both as a great reading experience, and for anyone interested in the various facets of science fiction as a genre.Copy provided by NetGalley - thanks for bringing this book to my attention!
All I can say is read the book, you won't regret it.The StoryIt starts off very symbolically with some kids playing on a one way street; this mirrors evolution and history.
We superior humans, who have attained the pinnacle of perfection, ship some of our own off to these developing planets to observe and indirectly help speed along the progress of the various indigenous peoples.And so the story begins.
The Strugatsky combo of Boris and Arkady is so dynamic and well-meshed that I had no idea when I made the transition from one writers work to then next.
The thing is, what to a researcher on Earth "interesting development, 200 people got killed in a routine feudal coup," to the person on the ground are his friends dying.
(hide spoiler)] But there is also no question that if he did not act, he would forfeit a claim to his own humanity, because it would be inhuman not to have a snapping point.
But of course, she was the world to Anton, (view spoiler)[and her loss is not better for him because history does not care one way or another.
(hide spoiler)] And every person who died in any of these events historians record, routine palace coups, book burnings, little wars, really mattered to somebody.
I was fascinated by the sound of this when I came across it in the library, because I really liked Roadside Picnic, and because the foreword mentions parallels with Star Trek and Iain M.
There’s a sort of opaqueness I associate with reading Russian novels in translations, but in spades.
Supposedly, this translation is much more readable than the old one, which was done via German, but… if that’s the case, I hate to think what the old one was like.It’s really disappointing, honestly, because the foreword makes it sound interesting, it’s blurbed by Ursula Le Guin, and the parallels mentioned are there.
This is one of the best Soviet science fiction books.
Imagine you are sent to undeveloped planet where people still live during what looks like Earth's middle ages as a mere observer (think Prime Directive from Star Trek).
You are so good at being undercover that you make real friends as well as real enemies.
What happens if your enemies start killing your friends and drag the society back to dark ages in the process?
You have god-like powers to stop bad guys, would you use them?The book combines fast-paced action with deep philosophical questions successfully, something very few books manage to pull off.
I love that the Strugatsky brothers were able to publish such brilliant and incisive literature in a repressive communist society under the guise of criticizing feudalism's treatment of freedom of speech, the fate of freethinkers, innovators, and the intelligentsia.The book also provides room for philosophical thought, as Don Rumata talks with a persecuted doctor/thinker about what he would ask God to do about the problem of evil and the human condition, with Rumata playing the role of God explaining why each well-intentioned intervention would ultimately fail.
Greață față de mizeria care colcăie în oameni, față de cruzimea, egoismul, indiferența și bestialitatea macabră care le întunecă sufletul.Într-un viitor nedefinit, Anton, specialist al Institutului de Istorie Experimentală de pe Pământ, călătorește spre o altă planetă cu misiunea de a-i observa pe locuitorii acesteia, fără a interveni în evoluția generală a societății.
Avem nevoie doar de oameni devotați.), Don Rumata este sfâșiat în permanență între dorința de a-i salva pe cei din jur, de a-i elibera de suferința și groaza care bântuie ținutul și datoria sa, ordinele pe care trebuie să le respecte.
"ხანდახან მეჩვენება, რომ არავის არაფერი შეგვიძლია, მეამბოხეთა მარადიული მეთაური ვარ და ვიცი, რომ მთელი ჩემი ძალა არაჩვეულებრივი ამტანობაა. მაგრამ ეს ძალა ჩემს უძლურებას ვერაფერს შველის. ჩემი გამარჯვებები რაღაც ჯადოსნური ძალის წყალობით დამარცხებებად იქცევა ხოლმე. თანამებრძოლები მტრები ხდებიან, ყველაზე მამაცები გარბიან, ყველაზე ერთგულები მღალატობენ ან გაქცევით შველიან თავს. და არაფერი გამაჩნია შიშველი ხელების გარდა, შიშველი ხელებით კი ვერ მისწვდები ციხესიმაგრის კედლების მიღმა წამომსხდარ მოოქრულ კერპებს.." "ჩვენს საქმეში ნახევრად მეგობრობა შეუძლებელია, ნახევრად მეგობარი ყოველთვის ნახევრად მტერია."
In fact, Hard to be a God could be interpreted as a comment on colonial arrogance, because it suggests that perhaps ‘uncivilised’ countries ought to be left alone, be allowed to develop and work things out on their own.“And no matter how much the gray people in power despise knowledge, they can’t do anything about historical objectivity; they can slow it down, but they can’t stop it.”It ought to be clear by now that this is a weighty, complex book.
Sovyet bilim kurgusunun bir tanrısı olsaydı, iki başlı olurdu herhalde. Adı da Strugatsky tabiki...
Rumata yolun yarısını gözleri kapalı yürüdü. Aldığı her nefesle canı yanıyordu adeta. Bunlar insan olabilir miydi? İnsana ait ne kalmıştı bunlarda? Kimilerini sokaklarda kılıçlarla biçmişlerdi, diğerleriyse evlerinde oturuyor ve uysallıkla sıralarının gelmesini bekliyorlardı. Ve her biri, kimin canını alırlarsa alsınlar, yeter ki beni esirgesinler, diye düşünüyordu. Kılıç sallayanların soğukkanlı zalimliği, kılıçlarda biçilenlerin soğukkanlı uysallığı. Soğukkanlılık; en korkuncu da bu. On kişi,
Kimilerini sokaklarda kılıçlarla biçmişlerdi, diğerleriyse evlerinde oturuyor ve uysallıkla sıralarının gelmesini bekliyorlardı.
On kişi, korkudan donmuş, uysalca bekliyorlar; sonra biri yanaşıyor, kurbanını seçiyor ve soğukkanlılıkla biçiyor onu.
Bu insanların ruhları çürümüş, uysallıkla bekledikleri her saat, onları da da zehirliyor.
Korkuyla sinmiş olan bu evlerde alçaklar, muhbirler, katiller, hayatları boyunca korkuyla zehirlenmiş olarak kalacak binlerce insan doğuyor, bunlar çocuklarına, onlar da kendi çocuklarına merhametsizce öğretecekler dehşeti.
Biraz daha devam edersem aklımı yitireceğim, onlar gibi olacağım, neden burada bulunduğumu bile anlamaz olacağım...
Sokağın tozu içinde, karnı yarılmış yatan çıplak bir kadın gördünüz mü hiç?
İnsanların sustuğu, sadece kargaların gakladığı şehirleri gördünüz mü?
Pushkin'den Gogol'e, Dostoyevski'den Tolstoy'a kadar Rus edebiyatının hangi büyük yazarını okursanız okuyun, elinizdeki kitabın kapağını kapattığınızda midenize bir yumruk yemiş gibi oluyorsunuz.
Ancak Zor Şey Tanrı Olmak, bağımsız bir roman olarak okunabiliyor.
Bu gezegenlerden biri de, romanın geçtiği, ortaçağını yaşamakta olan dünya benzeri bir gezegen.
Bu darbe sonucu korkunç bir şiddet gezegene hakim oluyor.
Romanın akışı içinde Rumata sürekli tarihin "nesnel koşullarını" sorguluyor: Kitlelere egemen olan şiddet, vahşet, bayağılık tarihsel koşulların zaruri bir sonucu mudur, yoksa belli toplumlara mı özgüdür?
Gerçekten de Strugatski kardeşler satır aralarında hep şu soruları soruyorlar: Toplumların gelişimi doğal akışına mı bırakılmalı, yoksa tarihin akışı (Sovyet devriminde olduğu gibi) zorlanmalı mı?
Life Changing (Pivotal, crucial, determining, defining, momentous, fateful, consequential, climacteric, transformational) 15,5,3,5,5,4,5,2,5,1 ======>> 40/10 = 4.0http://www.goodreads.com/poll/show/51...http://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%A2%D...One of the reviews, which I have seen, says that the mission was "to help speed along the progress of the various indigenous peoples".To clarify above, as I recall it, the book says that the mission was ONLY to watch and that interference with the natural historical and social development on that planet was strictly prohibited (with the exception to allow some concealed limited humanitarian actions in saving lives of artists and scientists).It is important to stress that Strugatskys did not mean "active" "hands-on" God - they meant the God, who never interferes and instead only observes - and that is WHY for humans it is hard to be such a God!
Romanul e povestea unui astfel de observator care nimerește în mijlocul unei societăți feudale brutale care elimină toți oamenii care știu să citească (romanul precede cu 4 ani Khmerii Roșii) și care apoi trece printr-o răsturnare de regim dramatică.Romanul începe destul de lent, foarte rusesc, și o ține așa cam până pe la jumătate, după care devine un roman SF de acțiune competent, mult mai ușor de digerat și mult mai clar în intenții.
Sau poate devine citibil pe nerăsuflate, nu știu.
Somethings must have been lost in translation. Proper names and places evoked the wrong meanings for me so maybe it's my fault I didn't enjoy it more.For example here's some of my poor rewrite: "Paul Anka won't drive his Tonka truck on the Forgotten Highway to Marshall Fields! Kia is a bookworm running away from Arkansas to Iraq," Red Skelton bellowed, as he passed the Ramada Inn."Don Imus never takes a bath and corporations are people too,"cursed Holy Moses. Welcome Wagon's people apologized to Don Imus. I know this is bad but it's my perception of the translation I read.
14 februarie 2018: Zicea cineva ceva de „E greu să fii zeu” azi și mi-am dat seama că impresia mea, după mai bine de un an de când am citit cartea asta, e una de dificultate și plictiseală.
Câțiva oameni dintr-o societate SF supertehnologică merg să influențeze o lume rusă-spaniolă medievală și descoperă că e mai greu decât și-au imaginat.
E o carte din care poți scoate aproape orice citat și va suna în continuare bine - mi se pare că Valerian Stoicescu face o traducere interesantă, care sună românește și în care poți simți diferența între tonul elevat al naratorului și bădărănismul nobililor.Însă cumva, pare confuză.
It is unfortunate this book is so hard to get a hold of, as I found it an excellent (albeit confusing) read. It tackles huge, universal themes - the nature of man kind, the course of history, the role of man in society, and many other things. I think it should be considered a classic.
Written by two Russian brothers in the mid-20th century in response to political pressure on art and artistic works under Khrushchev, Hard to be a God is about one man's struggle with the questions of how far to go to save others and live by his moral code, and if he can observe without interfering.The main character in this novel, known mostly as Don Rumata, is a 'historian' who has been placed on a more primitive world to live in and observe the feudal culture that exists there.
Попри те, що мала дурний настрій і книга з таким проблемним наповненням аж ніяк його не покращила.Цікава, глибока тема.
Я взагалі не знаю, як людина може на таке погодитися, і протриматись 5 років, 10 чи 15.
Себто десь, напр., трапляється речення "в углу трактира мрачно веселились двое нищих донов" і ти розумієш, що то ж по факту оксюморон — але можеш легко собі уявити, як воно виглядало.Єдине: в жодному разі не читати перед якимись веселощами, гуляннями, романтичними розмовами і под.
Все-таки соціальна фантастика, мені настрій вставило ні грама не веселий.
Але для чого на таке марнувати силу, га?
....The Strugatsky brothers approach science fiction in a very different way than western authors would and that alone makes it a shame that many of their books are out of print.
There are many more ways to look at science fiction that what the English-speaking world has to offer.
Hard To Be a God is, a book that hides a lot under the fast paced surface of the story.
Roadside Picnic remains their best known work but I don't think there is much between that book and Hard To Be a God to be honest.
Jeste. Teško je biti Bog, baš kao što je bilo teško proći kroz dosadne dijelove ove knjige kako bi se došlo do onih važnih i dobrih stvar. Usprkos njima, sama premisa iz naslova je jasno oslikana kroz društvena zbivanja i zbog nje dobiva 5 zvjezdica.
Reread it recently, after some fifteen years, and my verdict is this book is truly a masterpiece
3,5 stars.
We follow Rumata, an observer from future utopian Earth, sent to a medieval world with a couple others under a strict rule of non-interference (no killing, etc), but secretly trying to help speed up their development.
Despite it being a short book, it took me four days to read it.The idea of someone with near-godlike powers sent into an imperfect world and trying to do the right thing is fascinating and raises all sorts of good questions.
I actually liked the initial idea for a story that’s explained in the afterword (which also provides some context) a lot more than the end result.(view spoiler)[In particular, what bothered me, is him not killing Don Reba until they went for his girlfriend.
Не будь у человека такого терпения и выносливости, все добрые люди давно бы уже погибли, и на свете остались бы злые и бездушные.
Так что же есть зло, против которого надо бороться, дон Румата?
Ты еще не знаешь, подумал Румата.
Ты еще не знаешь, что враг не столько вне твоих солдат, сколько внутри них.
Ты еще, может быть, свалишь Орден, и волна крестьянского бунта забросит тебя на Арканарский трон, ты сравняешь с землей дворянские замки, утопишь баронов в проливе, и восставший народ воздаст тебе все почести, как великому освободителю, и ты будешь добр и мудр - единственный добрый и мудрый человек в твоем королевстве.
