https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11558933-the-great-keinplatz-experiment-and-other-tales-of-twilight-and-the-unsee
And what a hero Doyle himself was – for writing all those stories without ever getting boring and using a rather small vocabulary, thus obligingly considering my needs as a non-native English speaker.Later I found out that there was also another Doyle, one that wallowed in spiritualism and that came up with tales of mystery and the unknown, and this one struck an altogether different tone from the Doyle who lent his voice to the chronicler of the master sleuth Sherlock Holmes.
Pretty classic Conan Doyles stories! Nothing out of the ordinary.
This collection features an assortment of tales that vary in terms of length, content, theme, and style. I've given it four stars because the best stories really were very impressive. They are "The Brown Hand", "B. 24", "How It Happened", "Lot No. 249", "The Ring of Thoth", and "The Lift". With the exception of "B. 24" and "The Lift", those same stories can be found in "Tales of Unease", which is one of my favourite short story collections.
A very mixed bag. There are one or two splendid stories in here, several good ones, and some absolute rubbish. Worth pressing through for the good ones.
Great author, great ideas, kind of "meh" on the execution. I was tempted to skim in far too many places.
Though all the stories are about the supernatural, not all of them are frightening.
The singular (to borrow the book's diction) thing about this collection of short stories is the writing style.
Therefore, although being a book about supernatural tales, this book reads like a detective story instead.
The best way to read this book is by reading it like reading a detective story: find out the clues given from the very beginning about what would happen in the story, what the supernatural entity would be, and what the twist would be, and see if your guess is proven.
Strange tales by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle...
entretenido para pasar las tardes. mi cuento favorito: así fue como pasó
