https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8809.The_Wanting_Seed
I honestly can't tell if this is a rubbish sci-fi novel or brilliant Vogon poetry.
Congress is highly polarized and our "representatives" do little beyond hooking their friends up and padding the checking account.The worst part of it all is that stupid people just keep breeding.Anthony Burgess, perhaps best known for A Clockwork Orange (most likely you've seen the Kubrick film) had this book published in the same year (1962), and it fits nicely along other literary dystopic works such as 1984, Brave New World, and Anthem.
Then, as you would imagine, things level out a bit.There's this brainy back story to the book, that Burgess is essentially commenting on the cyclical nature of human history (which you'll also find in A Clockwork Orange and I'm sure in his other books as well).
Anthony Burgess is probably best known (at least among Americans) for his novel A Clockwork Orange.
Like A Clockwork Orange, The Wanting Seed takes place in a near future society that is in the first stages of decline.
This book is hilarious and contains such things as reprocessing dead humans, promoting homosexual behavior as a way of population control, famine, and fake wars for the benefit of humanity as a whole.
These things may not sound funny, but Burgess's language skills shine here, and offer great commentary on the danger of becoming obsessed with our survival while we forget why we want to survive in the first place.
If you enjoy lackluster writing, prejudices from 30 years ago, unrelatable characters, and inexplicable plot twists, then this is the novel for you!
If these things annoy you as much as they annoy me, then this is probably not worth reading.Honestly, the most amusing part of the novel was completely unintentional, because things we take for granted in modern society (Biracial people!
It reminded me of a late-written Agatha Christie novel, where the writer's bitterness and disapproval of the way society is swinging is palpable.
NOW HE LOVES HER AND FORGIVES HER!) I finished this book mostly because Burgess' terror at what is completely normal now was mildly amusing.
Po drugie: nie mam zamiaru porównywać jego książek z twórczością Orwella i patrzeć na jedno dzieło, i przytaczając drugie jako lepsze/gorsze, bo:a) To nie ma sensu i czemu ludzie to robią.b) Jest po prostu głupie, biorąc pod uwagę odmienne postrzeganie przez autorów przyszłości oraz społecznych problemów i skupianie się na innych jej elementach (ale obaj zgodnie uważali, że wojna istnieje tak po prostu, często przeciw nieistniejącemu wrogowi, chociaż u Orwella i Burgessa rząd ma w tym inny interes).A teraz do rzeczy.
Jeśli chcesz awans w pracy, to mimo dużego stażu, dostać go mógł byle młodzik tylko dlatego, że jest homo albo kastratem.O Bogu coś się mówiło, ale władza niemal go wyeliminowała z myśli ludzi.
It tells the story of how society crumbles around the main characters, Tristam Foxe and Beatrice-Joanna, as overpopulation drives it into anarchical behaviour, cannibalism and chaotic orgies in revolt of the Malthusian world and the government's strict anti-natal policies.
I originally wanted to read this book after seeing it referenced in a review paper on Calhoun's rodents, which investigated the effect of overpopulation on the psychology and behaviour of rats in a utopian environment.
Despite this, the writing was wondrous and a pleasure to read.What I do see missing is how this book was comedic - I didn't find myself laughing all that much, contrary to the quote on the cover which says it is "fantastically funny".
The Wanting Seed doesn't beat A Clockwork Orange by a long-shot, but it's still a strange, captivating and shocking novel that dares to ask horrendous and necessary questions that society would rather not think of.
I found the story pretty clever but really loved Burgess' sense of apocalypse, as if he transcribed images from Bosch's Garden of Earthly Delights.
I loved Tristram's trek thru degenerating England, the slow sprawl of history, moving from extreme police states on opposite poles of the structure.Yes, the love story was clumsy, but t served the purpose of showing this world's dichotomy and hypocrisy, his wife leaving him for a fake gay man, being cursed in either worlds for asking questions and being against the establishment no matter who is in charge.
You truly get a sense of this sprawling world, and the journey chapters are very effective.
In the end, Burgess used homosexuality as nothing more than a useful shorthand for showing how a Godless society has ruined itself.As such, The Wanting Seed is embarrassingly dated, not to mention fairly unbelievable.
I'm no cannibal, so maybe I just don't get it, but that seems unlikely to me.The one part I found entirely believable is the final section, in which the unsuspecting and gullible are conscripted into a newly organized army (as wars had been a thing of the distant past) and forced to fight one's own countrymen, unknowingly, as a way of generating vast amounts of human meat for the remaining population.
It's a good thing I chose to read A Clockwork Orange (my favorite novel) first.
Had The Wanting Seed been my introduction to Burgess's work, I'd never feel inclined to approach any of his writing again.
Great literature may contain offensive themes.
This is not great literature, though.
The characters act solely out of self-concern; it's near impossible to care for any of them.
Also, the writing is so pretentious.
Especially towards the end, I found myself skimming more than reading.
I'd lost all interest, and solely wanted to be able to know that I'd at least finished the book.
I'll be Damned.This was Disturbing, weird, darkly humorous and GOOD !
Hell !!
people are getting canned and eaten cause it would be such a waste otherwise !!!!!
who am I kidding I loved this shit XDIt's really entertaining.
Non of them deserved any kind of sympathy specially that Damned Beatrice-Joanna >_<The Epilogue was suitable.
The last image of the sea acted like a reminder of how Human actions never last as long as nature specifically the sea, cause it's the only thing that didn't change throughout the novel.I think I enjoyed it more than I did A Clock Work Orange ~
I love this book. I haven't read Clockwork Orange, but I have read many of Anthony Burgess' other books and this is by far my favorite. The story is set in an extremely overpopulated future. Fascinating plot, intriguing ideas, plenty of social commentary and Burgess' signature use of made up words. Starts a little slow (as most of his books do) but once you get into it you won't be able to put it down. Definitely leaves you thinking when you finish it.
I am a sucker for a good 1984-esque book. Also, I adore Burgess and all his linguistics talents. I loved his idea of cyclical history, one that is at least somewhat comforting in the midst of current economic crises. This is a must-read for any Burgess fan.
Dobra powieść, jednak sporo jej brakuje do "Roku 1984". Jest to wstrząsająca wizja przyszłości ale i też miejscami obrzydliwa.
This dystopian novel demonstrates one of his persistent themes, the conflict between 'Augustinian' authoritarianism and 'neo-Pelagian' liberalism.
The novel is set in a future similar to A Clockwork Orange, where Burgess projects an England in which Christianity, fertility, and heterosexuality will have been outlawed.
The brothers' relationship leads Tristram to think, “If you expect the worst from a person you can never be disappointed.”  Using an almost over-the-top comic style Burgess comments on themes including: the tyranny of the state, homosexuality, perpetual war, spontaneous orgies, the persistence of religious feeling, and cannibalism.
My admiration for Burgess as a novelist of ideas grows with each of his novels.
The Wanting Seed is a great read.
Part societal study and certainly a criticism of British society.
Anthony Burgess ask what happens to British society if the population overwhelms food supplies.
It is certainly satire, but not so sure it is funny.
He certainly lampoons the upper crust and social climbers along with British stoicism, yet it is wrapped in tragedy.
It is also a analogy of changing times England faced when the book was written and should be seen in this light.
The Wanting Seed is well worth the time.
But polite, genteel people don't have any.Which has a knockoff effect of, if you're gay (particularly male and gay) you advance more quickly in your career, and things like that.
And that is really the most interesting and appealing part of the book, so it's a shame that this isn't dealt with much and is soon enough overthrown.Because limiting population goes against the natural order of things and society tries to restabilize itself with heterosexual orgies.
Well, I can't like them.So the book is kind of interesting in an intellectual way, but I wouldn't call it particularly enjoyable on any other front.
If you like unbelievable use of Vocabulary you will like Anthony Burgess.
And Burgess' novel The Wanting Seed will not let you down in that fashion.
More acute themes deal with desires, sexual, for life, and love.
The wanting seed is pretty epic as it follows the life of the main character Tristram.
The beginning and end of the book are wonderful.
However, the middle of the book gets muddled down, and seems to lose focus.
However, if you like linguistics and vocabulary, or other novels from Anthony Burgess, this is a must read.

Даю одну звезду за идею, вторую — за сарказм (возможно, непредумышленный). Все остальное — диалоги, метафоры, персонажи, язык — отвратительно.
The story is told from two points of view: - Tristram - a plodding but conscientious history teacher- Beatrice-Joanna - his beautiful, but unfaithful wifeTheir only child had died and having more kids is forbidden by law.As in most dystopian stories, by the middle of the book chaos rules the world, most notions are mixed up and the characters eagerly try to find their place in this new system.
However, the second part is rather slow-paced and very confusing, as if the author was trying to fit in all these ideas and action scenes in the few pages he had left, forgetting that there's someone on the other side reading it all.
But, I stayed the course, and I have to admit, I had a hard time putting it down in the final few chapters as the book reached its climax and attempted resolution.
First of all, Burgess was British, so his book is heavy in English jargon and colloquialisms, many of which were unfamiliar to me...and would be, I imagine, to most Americans.
Thirdly, he is writing of a future time in the mode of science fiction, which introduces more unfamiliar concepts, words, ideas to his audience.
I had a hard time distinguishing the science fiction language from the Britishisms and archaic language.
starting in a society where people believe that everyone is good and punishments are lite because they think people will learn.
then the government gets fed up with how people can't be all good and more policing is needed.
essentially that society turns into a totalitarian government.
found this part most interesting but also the ideas of over population and war.
population being to high, people being encouraged by promotions and morals to be gay or asexual to help the nation.
interesting ideas in this dystopian novel that bring a lot of thought to our own future.
It takes place in what was once the UK and follows the lives of a married couple, Tristram and Beatrice-Joanna.
As poor crops and government law begin to come down on the people, they change to answer in strange and frightening ways.It's an interesting take on human response to massive overpopulation.
There's a lot of really good commentary on the way people as a whole might respond to global emergency.
The story itself isn't difficult to follow, but it moves through phases rather quickly once it gets going and the state of the government seems to change very rapidly.
Of course the homophobic main characters didn't get a lot of sympathy from me, but I loved the setting.
Of course things didn't stay that way as society was changing, the state became totalitarian, filled with secret police and torture, which led to LOTS of cannibalism, paganism, sex, and the creation of an army.
The characters in the book were a little underwhelming.
Though I did like the fact that the main character was opposed to all the different governments.
But really this book was about the setting, different reactions to a chronically overpopulated planet.
Burgess has created a dystopia in which it's a sin to have sisters, a crime to have children, and a large ancestry can cost you your job.
The story opens with Beatrice-Joanna Foxe receiving her "consolation" gift following the death of her infant son.
As spies and Beatrice-Joanna's husband learn of Derek's indiscretion, she is forced to head off to the Northern Provinces, where totalitarianism has only begun to reach.With a typical Burgess "happy ending" (of sorts) but without the ultra-violence and confusing linguistics of "A Clockwork Orange," "The Wanting Seed" is my favorite Burgess (which is why I'm re-reading it after ten years).
A dystopic satire set in a future in which an overbearing government tries to deal with horrendous population growth.
The government obsesses about whether it can feed the vast population.
As a means of doing so doctor's hasten the deaths of the sick whose copses are turned into fertilizer.
As until recently in China, fertile couples are allowed only one child.
London has grown so wildly that it has reached its south and east-most shores.
It can only grow north and west now.
Soon it will swallow Wales and Scotland.
First published in 1962 and evidently inspired by the dark dreams of Malthus.
I really enjoyed this. Video review to come!
An intriguing novel but when it came to part five I lost interest.
E così costruisce un mondo distopico nel quale le autorità rispondono al problema del sovrappopolamento con l'esaltazione dell'omosessualità, il controllo delle nascite, l'uso pilotato dei conflitti bellici e persino il cannibalismo.
Nemmeno le colte citazioni letterarie (da Shakespeare a Petrarca!) riescono a salvare questo romanzo; e dolorosa mi pare l'occulta autocitazione di Arancia meccanica, che fa intravedere Alex e i suoi drughi intenti a picchiare uno sprovveduto barbone ubriaco.Piuttosto che calarmi in interpretazioni forzate, o lasciarmi convincere dalle tesi dell'autore, dunque, preferisco credere che questo romanzo non sia stato scritto davvero da Burgess, e lasciare così perfettamente immacolato il ricordo prezioso della lettura del suo grande e insuperato Arancia meccanica.
