https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826095.Miracles_on_Maple_Hill
Marly is most admirable in her search for miracles and especially in her discovery that she can create her own miracles.
I also enjoyed the focus on sibling relationships.
Marly and Joe come to understand one another better as they learn to celebrate their differences.
Their relationship is not perfect at the end of the story, but it is improved.
This portrayal of brother and sister is more true-to-the-life than a perfectly devoted pair of siblings.
The end of WWII created some problems as it destroyed others.I would recommend this middle-grade book to anyone interested in a story about miracles and family.
I read this in school when I was little and I read again today and I thought it was a very good
A white family, looking at the world, saying, “Oh gosh,” and “Oh golly,” facing issues like the son staying out too late and wondering where he is, facing how to get the big maple sugar crop in before it ruins, and lots and lots of “You can’t do that; you’re a girl.”But it was also more.
The couple is warm and loving, but does not come across as overly false.The details about maple sugaring are fun and new.
The family heals, and reading about that process feels good.
Yes, there are (sorry) sappy parts, but they, too, feel part of the time in which the story was written.
How is it that I had never even heard of this Newbery Award-winning book until it was an Amazon Daily Deal?In a time of Iraq- and Afghanistan-induced PTSD, modern readers will completely identify with 10-year-old Marly, her shell-shocked former POW father, Dale, and her patient but overwhelmed peace-keeping mother, Lee. Lee hopes that moving into her own grandmother’s farmhouse, Maple Hill — “Up here, there’s all outdoors!” Grandma used to say — will help Dale heal and end the sullenness, tiredness and flashes of temper that have bedeviled the family.
And it’s no spoiler to say that Maple Hill transforms the family and its dynamics.
Marly's father returns from the war, while the specific war isn't mentioned, one can assume WWII.
Marly's father was a POW and is deeply emotionally tramatized with post tramatic stress.Leaving the city life behind, the family moves back to the family home in rural Pennsylvania.
A gentle neighbor friend shows them the joys of capturing the maple and processing it.While the book is corny and perhaps some would say hokey, I enjoyed it for the wonderful message of the healing powers of nature and the joys of life simply embraced when leaving behind the chaos of a frantic life style.
What I loved most about this book were descriptions of the wild, wonderful natural world.
The author is gifted in describing things in a way that made me feel like I was seeing them for the first time.
Although the plot is quite simple, it really stirred me how the family is revitalized by their connection to the goodness of people and the beauty and wonder of nature.
Joe was a bit of a brat sometimes (and he said “shut up” too much), but I loved Marly.
She was a real kindred spirit in many ways.
I especially love her compassionate nature.
This was a 1957 Newbery award winner. Dad (Dale) has returned from being a POW in WWII. The mother (Lee) thinks a summer spent at Lee's parent's house in the country outside Pittsburgh will help her husband readjust. Ten year old Marly is excited to go; twelve year old Joe is not too sure. This is really a heartwarming story about what they all discover during their summer and the subsequent year they spend on Maple Hill. For Marly - it's all about the miracles. She sees them in everything.
if that makes any sense.
The voices of the kids annoyed me.
Especially the way they bragged and tacked "...
Though I don't know if I was annoyed at the voices because it was an audio book or if it's the actual content.I guess we're supposed to be delighted with the innocence and beauty of it all.
It needs to do more within that setting.I don't understand why the kids are so excited over sap being boiled into syrup.
Besides for the fact that it's sugar, what about the process captures their attention and makes them so energetic?
The adults are mystified in the same way.
Newbery Winner 1957Such a darling story! A father comes home from WWII where he was a prisoner of war and has trouble re-adjusting to home life. So the family moves into grandma's old cabin in the country. Here they start a new life full of discoveries of the beauty of the seasons, working on the land, making maple syrup, finding new neighbors and friends, and most of all, healing.

A little syrupy-sweet, but nice.
But this is the kind of book after which you can rest peacefully in bed, which recently we have been considering a good thing.
We could start with blabbering something like "this is a story to warm the heart," which is a nice thought on wintry days, but marketing-blurb talk is cheap, so we won't.
We could say it's about a family going to a lovely woodsy farm called Maple Hill - which is the premise of the novel, but what's the plot?
So did the sinuous thread of sexism, although this was 1956.Still, we found no plot.Reading this, however, is like reading a chapter from the Laura Ingalls Wilder books, or eating syrup.
What a simple, warm feel good book about family, friends and seeing all the small miracles that make life special. I highly recommend it :)
Marly is enthralled by her mother’s stories of visiting her grandmother’s farm on Maple Hill where there is all outdoors to play in.
But will Maple Hill work its miracle for her father, withdrawn from his family and quick to anger after his wartime experiences?
Rereading after many years, I found this a bit old-fashioned, but a beautiful celebration of life in the country in all its seasons, including the detailed descriptions of the hard work and rewards of maple sugaring.
“This was why Mr Chris loved sugaring time.
Now she knew it.
And he loved the work itself.”
Beautifully written children's bookThis would be a great book for my 7+ daughters to read. I love Marly and Joe's curiosity and outdoor adventures, and the idea that living a simpler life away from the big city can change people. The book reminded me of the first Boxcar Children book that I loved as a kid.
Ten year old Marly experiences the circle of life through the seasons. Syrupy in a good way. Features some nice sentences, such as: 'Mother shifted gears, and the car was a big black noise in the middle of a huge white quietness.'
Sweet, feel good story. I think I read this as a kid. Its probably part of why I like trees.
I really enjoyed this novel so far.
The novel is sort of a adventurous and can be kind of confusing if you don't really know what exactly they're talking about.
Also this novel I have to say does start off a little boring but trust me as you read it keeps getting better and better and you don't want to ever stop reading it because it's that interesting.
Overall I think it was a very interesting book and I mean interesting like in a good way, it's also really action pact and that is something I personally like while reading a book ,because let's be real here no wants to read this boring book that has no action in it at all.
I found it unique among the Newbery winners I have read so far because the loveliness is not cloying and the truths are nicely incorporated into the story, never coming across as "lessons." Virginia Sorenson is an extremely fine writer.
The solution is to go to their mother's childhood home in upstate Pennsylvania where maple syrup is made, where life is simpler and Daddy can recover in what Grandma calls "all outdoors." Of course it all works out but along the way the children meet unusual but wonderful people both young and old while they have the kinds of adventures that can only be had in rural areas.
Written in a simple, yet eloquent prose, this is a heartwarming story of overcoming life's challenges, of bonding, of staying together, and of the power of nature to heal the human heart.
Through her writing, Sorenses made me long for the simpler days before technology ruled young lives the way it does today.
Reading this book reminded me how important timeless writing is.
It reminded me that a novel like this one will be relevant fifty years from now, when all the technologically-centered books produced today for young readers will be long-irrelevant.
This book gets an extra star because it is exactly the sort of book that I would have loved as a child, and therefore it hits me in the nostalgia spot, even though I've never read it before.This was a mostly quiet book without any sort of action, and no real plot.
It is, instead, a loving look at living in the countryside in the middle of the century, and adapting to a life lived out of doors and away from the city.
If only it were that simple in real life!This book, with its reverent descriptions of nature and general lack of action is not going to be for everyone.
The 1950's Newbery winners, for the most part, have been terrific books.
This one is about a family who moves to Maple Hill, a "sugar camp" in New England in an attempt to help their father, who was a prisoner of war in World War II get over his PTSD.
I think the novel could have gone from being really good to great if it would have focused a little bit less on the nature of Maple Hill (Not that it was bad.
On the whole, though, it was a solid book, and probably my favorite Newbery Winner up until this point, chronologically.
Reading this book was like a favourite blanket in winter or a comfort, pick-me-up food like chocolate or a baked pudding with cream yet deeper and more meaningful than that.This book made me happy.
Funny, very real happenings of the main child character took us on a great adventure to warm the heart.On top of it, we learned about the making of maple syrup.I read this to my children for school and we all loved it.
This book takes the reader from one happy event to the next.
It truly was a book of miracles seen through the eyes of a child.
I really liked the story better than I thought I would.
I did wonder at the father's PTSD being so easily "cured" by living out in the country, but at the same time, am glad that he did become much less tense and angry with his family.
I did feel for impulsive Marly and how she felt she lived in the shadow of her older brother, who did not want her tagging along on his solitary explorations.
But she also was the one that wanted everyone in the family to be happy, and happy with each other.
And I liked that the family was all together, and were able to agree on staying on at Maple Hill.
This book is in my small collection of paperbacks saved from my Elementary school days.
It made me stop and look at my own everyday tasks and surroundings differently.
The miracles of this book are simple.
The types of miracles we can all see in our lives if we stop to look: the blooming of a flower, harvesting a garden, laughter filling the house, the feeling of pride after a job well done.I also learned a lot about harvesting sap and turning it into maple syrup.
Today I am going to the store and buying a bottle of REAL Pennsylvania maple syrup to pour over my pancakes!
Marly and her family move to a farmhouse in the country to help her father recover from being a prisoner of war.
While there, they learn to rely on each other and become a closer family, they make new friends in the community, and and find hope for the future.
Miracles on maple Hill had a wonderful old-fashioned quality.
The community was kind, the farm setting was wonderfully sweet, and the scenes where the family learn to make maple syrup were wonderfully written.
As far as Newbery winners are concerned, this book was one of the better ones on the list.
This may make it on to my all time favorite list. Written over fifty years ago it could have been written yesterday. The message and lessons are just as true today as they were in 1956. The audio done in full cast was perfectly cast and recorded. It moved seamlessly from one character to another. While on my mission to read all the Newbery winners, I have experienced some really painful books, but also some gems. This one is one of the few gems. I hope everyone gives this one a try. Books like this make this project worthwhile.
I read this book to my two-year-old and my four-year-old. My 12-year-old read it on her own and enjoyed it too. It's a beautiful book about the beauty and healing power of nature and of love. It is told through the eyes of a young girl, whose family leaves the city for a year on a farm on Maple Hill. We also learned how maple syrup is made and now my 4-year-old won't accept the cheap imitation syrup on his pancakes.
Such a sweet, moving story about a little girl named Marley and how her family goes through the process of helping her father get over the effects of being a POW in the war (WWII). They move out into the country (Pennsylvania) to the house Marley's grandmother lived in and slowly their family is brought back together.I loved this book and can't wait to share it with my 9 yr old daughter.
4/2014: I haven't read this since I was probably nine. I was moved by the words, by the story, by Marly's belief in miracles. It darn near brought me to tears today when I read it outside by my garden. Just a sweet and charming little read about what it means to believe in life again.Reread 4/2018: Five stars. I loved everything.
