https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/386286.Julie_of_the_Wolves
Amaroq! Kapu! My heart!!
at first I thought Julie's observations of wolf behavior to be overly simplistic.
It's not just a matter of adopting their vocal cues to one another that will allow you to approach a wild wolf and gain its trust and friendship.however, after a while I attempted some of the wolf behaviors on my 2 dogs, and was surprised that they seemed to work and be understood.
Imagine pippen's surprise when I bit the top of her nose the first time!
hehthe grunt whine means come here.the licking of the chin and cheeks means hail to the chief.it actually DOES translate.I'm weirded out by this.
The story opens with the Eskimo girl Miyax lost, alone, and starving in the Alaskan wilderness.
Julie decides to flee toward the hope of San Francisco and a new life.This is a powerful story of conflict between two identities and two sets of traditions.
In the beginning, I felt frightened for Miyax and a bit disgusted by the lengths that she was forced to go to in order to survive.
I rejoiced at the thought of Miyax turning her back on “civilized” life and surviving on her own.Perfect Musical PairingGenesis – White MountainFrom the 1970 album, an epic song about harsh reality and adventure through the eyes of a wolf on the white mountain.
This book won the Newbery award in 1973.
It is really excellent and quite an amazing story!
I thoroughly enjoyed it.
Because my husband LOVES Alaska so much, he also read it.
Well, I love Alaska too!!
We would go back there in 2 split seconds if our children weren't here instead of there.
ALSO this book has been challenged often and can you guess why?
Well, these are the ones I could find:"socialist, communist, evolutionary, and anti-family themes; references to family alcoholism, abuse, and divorce; includes a rape scene"And guess what?
No matter how repellent and unthinkable alcoholism, abuse, and divorce are, THEY HAPPEN.

I decided it best to reacquaint myself with this story since it had been such a long time between my original read and this review and let me just say what a difference time has had with this one.
My memories were of this little girl who happened to make friends with a pack of wolves while traveling from point A to point B, which consisted of some mildly dangerous wilderness.
From beginning to end there is just a whole hell of a lot of wrong happening to this poor little girl and her ability to endure it astounds me.
Real Rating: 4.5 starsI'm editing my shite review and trying to do this work of art justice!I love this book.
I have long been looking for a book which features a female MC surviving in the wilderness, and I found it.Not my usually type of book, but I loved it nonetheless.This book struck a chord in my soul, made me feel alive and just made me feel and it was just beautiful.
Oh god, I need to reread this book, I want to feel that beauty again.
I really really really loved this and HIGHLY recommend.
The story is inspired.Julie of the Wolves is a story about Miyak's journey from leaving a frightening situation behind at a very young age, to find her way, to her pen pal in San Francisco.
She finally finds hope in a pack of wolves and begins to study how they communicate to one another which allows her to interact with them, in-turn saves her life.
Miyax's ingenuity to survive with the pack and sustain herself with some of the lessons she learned from her father is the heart of the story.
Not just wolves, but lemmings, skuas, foxes, and a variety of other birds and animals populate these pages, strongly appealing to the naturalist in me.As a child, I certainly did not understand the sadness about the changing way of life of the people of the Arctic.
George was obviously sorry to see the Native people losing their traditional way of life and becoming initiated into regular North American culture.
I think there are echoes in this book of the idea that Native peoples and their cultures would inevitably die out, something which so many are still struggling against.
When Amaroq died, it was very sad.
One of the things that made me sad was when Amaroq died was when Julie screamed "For a bounty, for money, the magnificent Amaroq is dead!" I think this might be how some one feels when someone important dies.
At first, Amaroq did not let Julie in the pack.
Why do you think he eventually did?
why did the men kill Amaroq and then not take him with them?
I think that this was a very good book because I liked how the quite moments and the action tied together to make one.
My younger brother is a rather picky eater. When he eats something he doesn’t like, he clamps his nose with two fingers and swallows the food as quickly as possible while suppressing the gag reflex. For him, some foods just don’t go down as easy as others. For me, Jean Craghead George’s Julie of the Wolves could hardly go down at all. It’s a quick and easy read, for ages 10 and up, coming in at about 150 pages, and to be honest, that’s all I could bear.This 1972 Newberry award winning novel show
At the end of Part II there is a scene depicting an attempted rape between two characters, Myax (now Americanized and re-named Julie) and Daniel, (the guy she marries).
According to Banned in the U.S.A. an incident occurred in March 1996, when the book was removed from the sixth grade reading list in Pulaski Township, Pennsylvania at the behest of parents who “complained of a graphic marital rape scene in the book.” This really surprised me, why on earth would they include a scene about a rapist in a children’s book?
Synopsis:To escape from an arranged marriage gone bad, Miyax (Julie) runs away into the Alaskan wilderness.
Yet, through the course of the book, she realizes that there is much less "Julie" in her than there is Miyax, the Alaskan born Eskimo with traditions worth keeping.[*** Spoiler warning ***] I suppose that the thing that left me the most unsatisfied was the way the book ends.
In the end, she chooses to leave him behind also, returning to the true traditions of her fathers.But, isn't that what she was escaping from in the beginning?
According to Kapugen, Julie's father, when you're feeling fear you need to change your position.
So, when Julie begins to fear life among a new family, she changes position by walking out into barren landscapes and winging it, hoping by the end that she reaches San Francisco (see how well her optimism serves her?).
Anyway, when one lives like Julie does for so long there is a good chance that re-adjusting to life among those less optimistic and normal is a struggle...but in the end I'm rooting for her to manage it, although I don't think she'd ever stop singing out her love for a certain lead wolf after gently biting him on the nose and all.
I think the book was adventurous because Julie (Miyax) traveled to places like San Francisco and Alaska and she had to be able to get shelter and food.
This affected the story because you can only know what Julie is thinking and not the rest of the characters.SettingThis story takes place in Alaska tundra which Miyax describes as looking as an ‘ocean of grass’.
She used the information her dad gave her to help survive in nature.Amaroq is the leader of the wolf pack and the companion to Miyax.
3.5 Stars
It's a Newberry Medal winner published in 1972 repackaged for the ebook market with a shiny new cover (which I like).Aside from the curiosity two things drew me: Alaska & Eskimos (any variety of Native Americans has this effect on me).
At least it was for me.The book starts by following Miyax (Julie is her "gassak" aka whitefolk name) lost on the tundra as she tries to gain acceptance into a pack of wolves.
Child-me would've loved it because well...not only was I obsessed with Native Americans BUT animals.
Somewhere there might be a kid like me waiting for this book and I hope she finds it.
In the beginning of the story Miyax is starving and she learns how to communicate with a nearby pack of wolves by using the signals they use with each other.
Not unlike the story of Sam Gribley, the very idea of a child taking off and being able to survive by living off the land is pure fantasy.The wolves in this story were anthropomorphized and I found it annoying that other than hunger, which Miyax overcomes, there was no real danger to her.
There was something about his book that drew me in. It was one of the only books that I would read over and over again. I thought no one was as brave as Julie, making her life in the wilderness with a family of wolves.I loved this book then and it still brings me fond memories.
I've loved this series since I was young. Of course, I've loved wolves since I was very young, so it always appealed to me in the best way. Suffice it to say, it holds up in an adult reading; I still actually felt teary at one point. That medal was well-deserved.
In this story 13 year-old girl named Miyax runs away from home to escape her terrible husband Daniel and finds herself lost in the snowy tundra, in order to survive she must befriend a pack of wolves and learn their ways.
He resembles his father Amaroq with their similar black coats and apparently Miyax’s too, he was named Kapugen (or Kapu for short) by Miyax because his fearlessness and intelligence and that reminded Miyax of her father.
she even helped her escape from Daniel.Silver – a female wolf named because of her beauty, she was named by Miyax like all the other wolves in Amaroq’s pack.
Ever reading a book and as it's getting to the last 20-30 pages you feel like you don't want it it end?
I really enjoyed this, and it makes you look at the wilderness, and animals in the wild on a different light.
If you do not like wolves, you will likely feel differently after this.
The girl in the book has a sad past and you feel for her and are wanting things to work out for her.
It's that same dynamic of people surviving in the wild, and leaving the modern world behind.
I read that the author actually worked with wolves and researched this fully.
What a great book!
A nice novel about the life of eskimos and wild animals, survival in the Alaskan wilderness, and the clash of the western way of life with primitive people.
Awesome.(view spoiler)[I felt bad for what happened to Amaroq and for the state of the Eskimo culture in general.
I got annoyed, though, that Miyax felt she couldn't go to San Francisco because she came to associate all white civilization with people who kill helpless animals for fun.
I guess I took it a little personally--the first time I killed an ant as a child, I felt so bad that I had a funeral for it, so I thought that the message in this book was a little over-the-top and anti-European.
I was pretty glad that she got over it enough to go and join her father again.
A friend at university had a comic book with one of the world's greatest titles: "Beautiful stories for ugly children." Here we have another one, a Newberry Winner no less.Two forebodings that dogged me throughout were 1) It read like research that wasn't fully understood.
It's the last line of Julie's last song on the last page which is the most troubling:"That the hour of the wolf and the Eskimo is over."My Russian(?) reference book tells me that the Inuit are still spread out across Greenland, Russia, Canada and the U.S.
First off, George's training as a naturalist is very apparent; her descriptions of wolf behavior and the arctic seasons are incredible.
Also, Miyax is a powerful character, and I love that George doesn't shy away from depicting the brutality of human nature through this female character in addition to her kindness.
The ending for me was unsatisfying, if realistic; she addresses the Westernization of colonized peoples pretty well, although of course I just wanted to see Miyax (view spoiler)[ take off on her own for good (hide spoiler)].
Of course, this story is also just a top-notch "going-into-the-wild" adventure story.
George's My Side of the Mountain was a huge childhood favorite of mine but I had not read Julie of the Wolves.
I read it aloud to the whole family and everyone really liked it though we found the ending hard to understand and somewhat unsatisfying.
As with My Side of the Mountain, by the end of the story we were all ready to go build our own igloos and live with the wolves.
This was a fantastic book to read with pre-teen girls because Julie is such a strong character and because her thinking matures so much throughout the book.
I cannot even begin to express how much I hated this book.
It was given to me as a gift when I was probably 12, as some misguided attempt at feminist guidance.
I read the whole thing, devoured it, so I guess you could say it was written well.
her "escape" and survival in the Arctic is so beyond believable that, even now, nearly 20 years later this book makes me angry.
in fact, I'm only even posting this review because some dolt on Twitter just labeled this as a "give it another try: books you didn't finish in high school".
I finished it, I hated it.
The characters was the most compelling literary Elements of julie of the wolves.One of the picture really caught my attention and the page number is 57.
I choose this picture because #1 it caught my attention #2 It was interesting and #3 because of the dialouge on the top of the page.
Sometimes I couldn't picture what was really happening in the passage, that is why illistrator are good to share.
Sometimes when there cwas a page we had to stop at, and then the next day we had to read again and i gotten confused of what had happened.
