https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222863.The_Power_Elite
When Trump says he couldn’t even consider having poor people in positions in his government he is speaking to this vision of what success means.I’m going to quote in full a key footnote Mills gives in the chapter called ‘The Power Elite’.
That we like to claim personal responsibility for our success and failure doesn’t in any way mean we have such power.This notion that power is shaped by the habits and preferences of those already in power is the central concern of the last chapter which I think could nearly be read on its own.
Wright Mills presents in the pages of The Power Elite  is a critique of the United States post World War II, as its leaders were beginning to ramp up imperialistic plans to dominate the world economically, militarily and politically.
However, as mentioned by Alan Wolfe in the books afterward, The Power Elite has stood the test of time - informing people about power and the dangers of its consolidation - whereas other sociological texts from the period have fallen through the trap doors of history into obscurity.
THE POLITICAL DIRECTORATE "A small group of men are now in charge of the executive decisions made in the name of the United States of America.
So far as I recall, his major emphasis is in demonstrating how the important players migrate between government and the large corporations, representing the interests of their class in both domains.Now this seem old hat, obvious, but to many teenagers, and adults, in the fifties and sixties, it came as a shocking revelation.
Also, because Mills was homegrown and because he was vocally critical of Marxist theory, this book was very important in establishing the independent identity of the American New Left of the sixties and early seventies.
A quote that should make you read The Power Elite: "On the one hand, there is the increased scale and centralization of the structure of decision; and, on the other, the increasingly narrow sorting men into milieu.
The introduction to the book is interesting, before it dissolves into a long-winded tale of how private schools create an entirely private and impenetrable class of Elite Americans.
If anything, pick it up to read "The Power Elite" and "Mass Society" chapters.
Lucid explanation of American 'aristocracies'. Slightly outdated, but not nearly as much as I had anticipated. Simplistic, but still insightful.
Media people, too, enjoy as much visibility as movie stars, even if most of them lack the raffishness of real and metaphoric "rock stars." But they can switch careers in midlife, too -- we are now living with a real-estate investor who became an NBC reality-show host and last year, President of the USA, without sloughing off some of the properties the law claims he should.Of course, C.
Wright Mills wrote this book in an era in which newspapers, not TV, set the public agenda, and visual-recognition and popularity or "image" did not reign as supreme as it does now.
I read this book for my dissertation. It was fascinating. The author has a way with words. Basically this is the dude who invented The Man. Though his rants today might sound like the ramblings of any anti-elite stoner at a party, back in the day this was mind-blowing stuff. If you can put yourself in that headspace when you read the book it's pretty good, humorous, and insightful.
What Jacob Burckhardt said of ‘great men,’ most Americans might well say of their elite: ‘They are all that we are not.’If we took the one hundred most powerful men in America, the one hundred wealthiest, and the one hundred most celebrated away from the institutional positions they now occupy, away from their resources of men and women and money, away from the media of mass communication that are now focused upon them—then they would be powerless and poor and uncelebrated.
To be celebrated, to be wealthy, to have power requires access to major institutions.More generally, American men of power tend, by convention, to deny that they are powerful.
The insecurity of non-propertied persons tends toward the desire to take what others have or to at least de-emphasize the importance of having an elite excess above needs.
“Right” to determine what is “right” by means of wealth is often based on the exclusion of the those who question why having more stuff is always better than having less in terms of preference for social power.Mills writes, for instance, that the upper-middle loves talking about "status relations".
What it really needs is a real and extensive updating to be read as anything other than a work limited by and to the time and place of its creation.I first read The Power Elite as a student of history and government in the late 1970s, when much of the criticism and commentary that Mills aimed at the economic, political, and military elites he saw leading the country remained valid.
Corporate America is now global, and America's Main Street is only a consumer, not a provider of talent and direction.The entrepreneurial explosion--the hardware, software, and services that didn't exist then have now provided an outlet for that talent and direction that is no longer "elite" but far more powerful.
American capitalism is now in considerable part a military capitalism, and the most important relation of the big corporation to the state rests on the coincidence of interests between military and corporate needs...Here, a denunciation of the legislative body (remember, this is 1956, imagine the trend continuing down to the current congress):In the first and second decades of the [twentieth] century, only a few bills were presented...these bills were considered during the ample time between committee study and their debate on the floor.
Have a taste:"It is in this context of material prosperity, with the demagogic right setting the tone of public sensibility; the more sophisticated conservatives silently achieving established power in a largely undebated victory, with liberal ideas made official in the 'thirties, now stolen and banalized by alien use; with liberal hopes carefully adjusted to mere rhetoric by thirty years of rhetorical victory; with radicalism deflated and radical hope stoned to death by thirty years of defeat – it is in this context that the conservative mood has set in among the observant scholars.
First published in 1956, this was a classic in sociology at the time.
The American power elite, of whom Mills says (Page 3): "The power elite is composed of men whose positions enable them to transcend the ordinary environments of ordinary men and women; they are in positions to make decisions having major consequences." In this volume, Mills seeks to identify the power elite of the United States at the time.
A book of its time, somewhat simplistic in its outlining of the elite, but--nonetheless--a classic.
Much of what Mills covers has already seen light in some other works I have read (Media Monopoly by Bagdikian and most of Chomsky).
I agree with the afterword by Alan Wolfe except that I believe that Mills in his social criticism (the last half of the book) was not incorrect in calling the bureaucratization of and resulting mindless decisions by the military, political, and corporate elites.
Mills does not necessarily need to be in their shoes to describe how they act and what motivates their decisions.
Wolfe does not acknowledge that what Mills attempts to elucidate is the potential for problems of self-analysis if one is in said milieu.

Not as good as I had hoped, it's more in the line of: "I assemble this information so as to inspire action by the downtrodden masses." It was interesting to me how much political influence he ascribed to the Military, which I don't entirely trust, even given the era the book is analyzing (early Cold War).The problem for Mills is:1.
Our elite is incompetent2.
Our elite is not democratic enoughNow, there are situations in which both propositions could hold, but as a general rule, and despite their both being fundamentals goals of American internal and foreign politics to this day, they are generally incompatible, or negatively correlated elite qualities.

I can definitely say that some of the subject matter in this book didn’t hit home with me or simply I wasn’t capable of understanding, however the amount of content this applied to was minuscule compared to what I was expecting.Mills manages to maintain his analytical integrity up to, in my opinion, the twelfth chapter, but some critics place it earlier than that.
However, I think the course Mills took in ending his book was fitting, and a much better alternative to having the entire book be an analysis in full.One of the greatest things about The Power Elite is that it thankfully contains an afterword written by political scientist Alan Wolfe.
"As politics gets into the army, the army gets into politics." I particularly like the topic about 'Civilian supremacy' in this book. The principle of Civilian supremacy was so successful up until WW2 and even beyond, there was no serious problem which arose from military submission to civilian authority. As the nation developed, however, faith in civilian supremacy began to wane. The waning of that faith began when civilian officials started using military elements for furthering their ambitions and when military officers began allowing themselves to be so used.
This book, written in the mid-fifties sees in the background about politicians that which is so obvious to us now. It would be a hard read for a present-day Republican and Mills truly does seem sad at the decline of a logical, liberal (Lockean liberalism) conservative ideology, but he does not hold back in his contempt of the immorality and irresponsibility of the Conservative movement he found at the end of the McCarthy Era. A worthy read by someone on either end of the political spectrum.
Just a note for future me (& friends). Whilst almost finishing this read, a local sociologist (Dr Azhar) talk about Sociological Imagination when he saw me reading this; thus making it to be part of Mills/sociology 'compulsory' reading.
I feel this book is one of the most important books for most people to read. I have only found the work of Mills to be positive. Despite some critical critiques I have heard of him, I feel that this specifically is an important book to understanding power and domination in our current society.
Such an important study to read that is still relevant today in my opinion.After reading about the power elite class and how they think, I came to the realization that they use the same strategy, approach and tactics in Lebanon and politics.
Devastatingly astute
Mills doesn't use that particular phrase since the book was published four years before Eisenhower's speech, which is precisely the problem: in 1956, to assert that significant power is wielded by an unelected coalition of military figures and private companies is to diagnose a new and potentially controversial development; 58 years later, this assertion has become (at least for some, and not only on the left) more or less a truism.
Someone whose impressions of America had been formed solely from "The Power Elite" might well have assumed that the massive changes required to create a Colin Powell would surely have reverberated across the country, reducing if not eliminating the problems that Mills' analysis identifies.
C. Wright Mills' The Power Elite is a worthy classic of social science. Mills analyzes, using interviews, public records, and other sources, the structure, character, and importance of a class he calls 'the power elite,' as they are during the 1950s (in addition to delving briefly into the history that brought them to that state). Mills ascribes the following characteristics and definitions to his power elite:  By dint of their positions in relationship to large, influential institutions (chiefl
C. Wright Mills' The Power Elite is a worthy classic of social science.
Mills analyzes, using interviews, public records, and other sources, the structure, character, and importance of a class he calls 'the power elite,' as they are during the 1950s (in addition to delving briefly into the history that brought them to that state).
Because most of what Mills said is still valid today, and because he was such a perspicacious, conscientious thinker, The Power Elite is still an essential window into the power structures that are driving our culture's destruction of the planet and its exploitation of and violence against much of humanity.
Mill's masterpiece, this book allows its readers to peer into the shady upper echelons of power in America.
This means that the top business executives, the top military officers, and the board members of churches, universities, and other non-profits are the same people--either coming from the same families, or serving in each of these capacities at different times in their careers.
It was published in 1955, so the references to debutant balls and those all-powerful church boards seem dated and no longer relevant.
Nevertheless, the book deserves a revival, as the upper 1 percent are as insular and as powerful as ever.
This was a terrific book.
A lot of the abstract ideas might seem like common sense / general knowledge to cynical people of the modern day, but this book's value is in how it empirically demonstrates the *structural* linkages between the privately wealthy, the military, the corporation, and the government.
Further, it uses these linking factors to explain the evolution and the current structure of power in the United States.
It's fascinating too that even though the book was written in 1956, I think nearly all of the its content still rings true.
This is a book that I wished I had read during college (and not weeks after having a kid).
Mills' book is considered a social science classic about 1950s America and the changes that were happening after WWII to society, power, and class.
In addition, the second half of the book is less observation and more criticism and became even drier such that I will have to admit to having started skimming.
That being said, it was a book that with the structure of reading for a class, I suspect would have been more insightful.
The book attempts to describe how power is becoming more centralized in the U.S. between the government, the corporations, the military, and the church.
He shows that conspiracy theories are a waste of time.
He shows that it is very logical to consolidate power in the way that it is being done (from the viewpoint of those in power).
Fewer and fewer people have access to power as those in power start making more and more rules for how to be a part of influential circles.
A very good book describing how the balance of power has been shifting in the U.S. A good classic sociological text.
