https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6531.Point_of_Origin
Book Review  3+ of 5 stars to Point of Origin, the 9th thriller in the "Kay Scarpetta" mystery and suspense series by Patricia Cornwell. I enjoyed this book a lot, especially given the focus around Lucy and Benton. Cornwell gives such depth to her characters, you can't help but love and hate them at the same time. They feel incredibly real, and almost as if you've met them before. The suspense is at an all time high in this book. It's a very psychological book, especially given the two parts o
Book Review
3+ of 5 stars to Point of Origin, the 9th thriller in the "Kay Scarpetta" mystery and suspense series by Patricia Cornwell.
I enjoyed this book a lot, especially given the focus around Lucy and Benton.
The suspense is at an all time high in this book.
It's a very psychological book, especially given the two parts of they stories and how/when they might come together.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]
Poor Benton has his "still surprisingly supple" body dutifully admired, and pale feet like her niece.The blurb as usual proclaims not only that she does it best and has bad imitators, but that this one is "her best and bleakest" (don't get up my hopes - or maybe that just means the guy will die (to resurrect later)) and praises the "sinister atmosphere ...
Oh, yes, and Kay is so very scared and terrorised again because Claire is as much a scourge as Temple was *yawn* and so she makes a few extra-flights to run after her niece for no reason other than the descriptions of banal manual tasks hadn't filled enough pages yet.
Number Nine in the Series. Ok, you've read a series of mystery books before. Is it ever a good idea when the same serial killer shows up for the third time (at least)? And the killer just happens to be the former lover of the lesbian niece? Desperation thy name is Cornwell.
Just arrived from Germany through Bookmooch.One you've read one book by Patricia Cornwell, you won't find anything different or so original in the following books.
This is #9 of Cornwell's Kay Scarpetta series and if you have read the previous 8 this one should be very familiar.
Now Temple Gault is dead (I think) but Cornwell once again brings back Gault's partner in crime Carrie who also once had thing with Kay's niece Lucy.
Carrie it seems has escaped from the loony bin in New York and is determined to get even with Kay, Lucy, Weston and Marino.
Kay is a mean lady who is also getting creepy with her lustful looks at her lesbian niece Lucy.
Nikad duze nisam citala neku knjigu. Jedva dvojka.
***SPOILER ALERT ***I have been anxiously waiting to read this book for years; I've missed Kay, Benton, Lucy and Marino, it's been a long time.
You'd think bringing Carrie back into the mix would have spiced things up, but it was the opposite, I was completely disappointed in how our infamous villain was addressed in this book.
And don't even get me started on how anticlimactic Benton's death was, or even how anticlimactic the final 'fight scene' with Lucy & Carrie was.
I've read the next two books in the series and I remember I liked them; I hope the ones following are better than this as well.
Patricia Cornwell is the master of suspense and she delivers another helping in Point of Origin. Kay Scarpetta, Chief Medical Examiner of Virginia is back and faced with an evil from her past. In collaboration with her niece Lucy, Detective Pete Marino, and Profiler Benton Wesley, Scarpetta takes on the case of a deadly fire that turns into a plot even more sinister. Well written as always, Patricia Cornwell has delivered another thrilling tale of murder,deceit and mystery. Another page turner in the Kay Scarpetta series!
(I’ve read exactly 0 of the others, but if another turned up in my bag of paperbacks, I’d give it a shot.) Medical examiner Scarpetta must help determine what caused a fire at a wealthy man’s estate.
In the midst of trying to solve the case, an old adversary escapes from the mental institution where she was being held.The novel reads fairly quickly, and I dare say that if you are a fan of crime fiction, you will thoroughly enjoy this book.
Me, I could do without the descriptions of charred bodies and other gory details.Though the novel is part of a series, it can easily be read alone.
When a fire at a horse farm leaves a mysterious body in the rubble, Scarpetta is tasked by ATF to investigate.
The story comes to a head when paths cross and Scarpetta is left to put all the pieces together.
Cornwell at her best, no doubt.The ongoing character development of Kay Scarpetta continues to entertain the reader in this novel.
Much of her personal life has come to light over the last few novels and this one adds another layer to the story.
Scarpetta, and those around whom she is surrounded, continue to grow and develop, entertaining the reader throughout.
This one was TERRIBLE. So far, her later books are a lot better. I don't expect much from my guilty pleasures, but I would like some entertainment and not sigh and facepalm so much.Better review to come.
This was one of my favorite series many, many years ago.
realmente me ha gustado mucho. Según pasan los libros ves la evolución de los personajes.
another one bites the dust -queenthis sparks my curiousity -tesla trooper
If she were writing about an interview with me, before the first question the reader would get the following: On left corner of Glen’s cheap, pressed-wood Stanton desk is a paperback copy of “Point of Origin” by Patricia Cornwell.
Though an occasional clue to the crime is woven in, it’s obvious that the story is not moving, the characters are not developing, and nothing is going on but page count.Speaking of page count – on page 281 the actual story begins – it will basically end on page 392 – only 110 pages left.
I quit reading because I was downright angry at Patricia Cornwell.
Yep, it was a good plot twist.
Yep, it built tension, suspense, empathy.
So killing one of them affects all of them, and while I understand that might be a good thing for many readers, for me it isn't.
The villains continue to take all of us on a roller coaster ride as Kay and friends try to catch them.
This particular book is one of my favorites of the series, which may seem at odds with the fact that I quit reading after it came out.
But please -- read it.
i wanted resolution!the whole thing with benton is really annoying me.
i hear the series takes a turn for the better after The Book of the Dead and it's not like i'm going to be putting down these books any time soon, but man, i just don't like them very much right now.
i also find it fascinating that cornwell has written such a strong, smart homosexual character in lucy, while being a lesbian herself.
i like kay, and i still want marino to settle down.
i'm a little annoyed by lucy, who doesn't seem to age, and is so reckless, stupid and smart - but seriously?
For anyone who has started reading this series from the beginning as I have been doing; Scarpetta is constantly transforming herself as she investigates a deadly fire involving humans and animals.
I felt this novel revealed a more human Scarpetta; she comes face-to-face with the loss of someone dear, a reference to O.J. Simpson, eats at Burger King with her niece and speaks openly about homosexuality which has been building over the last few books and unless I missed it before Lucy's last name is revealed.
The climax of the book comes quickly with an old nemesis who has been lurking in the background.
This was so good, but so sad. Definitely one of my favorites in the series so far.
I don't like writing reviews, but I will write this about this book, I shouted and cried...
Such a great series.
That's it! I'm done with this series, I can't continue along this road any further.
My biggest problem is that Scarpetta doesn’t grow; she’s stuck in her ways and terrified of change … as such she gets damned boring!
Children and small people (like me) ride ponies (not horses – a horse is 15 hand and over!) and as she describes Marino’s height he’d easily be able to tuck this one under his armpit!All this is not helping me get a good feel in reading the book.
It does give me some problems with later books though as I’m trying to work out how it was done and how it was possible … and why.
It felt like Cornwell was stuck with her story and the only way out was to kill off one of the characters.But do you know what irked me the most?
A 100 pages in and they're slowly though surely carrying on with their investigation of the fire.
It suddenly all made sense to Dr Scarpetta, there's a quick Carrie take, and finished the book is.
To me the whole book felt bumpy and rushed and, like I said, very irregularly paced.So why did I pick up the damn thing in the first place?
I felt that Cornwell didn't give her characters enough chance: she rapidly ditches both Joyce and Grethen in favor of Le Loup-Garou, her villain of 'Black Notice' and 'The Last Precinct', which in my opinion was a mistake.
The supporting characters are back: Lt. Pete Marino (I swear if she kills him off I will never touch one of her novels again), FBI agent Lucy Farinelli, Scarpetta's neice (although too much of a deal is made of her lesbianism), and one of the best villains in contemporary thrillers, Carrie Grethen.
(2.6)Full disclosure: These books diminished in quality but I was stuck w/a 4 e-book bundle of stories 11-14 so I'm determined to get there and get my money's worth.My problem w/these books and those like them is the dichotomy that the better the characterizations the more I feel sorry for the main character and her never ending sea of trouble and anguish.
The type of crime stories just treadmill on and on and the poor character has to suffer through many near death experiences, the violent deaths of loved ones, and in Scarpetta's case a litany of gruesome autopsies.
Cornwell has talent and her books are better than they have been but she can't transcend the restraints of her genre like Ellroy or Mosely can.
The ending was a bit far fetched - a helicopter shoot out.
Also, with this ending, can anyone be sure the fugitive was actually killed.
Without knowing much about the Scarpetta book series or how Cornwell writes, it would not surprise me if there was a sequel with Carrie making a come back - a good example of this is Harry Potter.However, the book gave a good insight into fire investigation and how difficult a job it is - to this end, I believe this was a secondary goal (the first being a best seller) in which the book has achieved its purpose.
I have read most of the Scarpetta series (unfortunately out of order) and while this wasn't my favorite, it's top 3!
This book was a lot more personal of Kay Scarpetta than others in the series.
I really enjoyed reading the emotions as she was going through a hard personal time and trying to work at the same time.
There was a huge and sad plot twist I did not expect AT ALL towards the end of the book.
I loved the science and forensics behind this book.
Definitely enjoyed it and now I'm moving on to my next Scarpetta book...
This plot has the Cornwell classic of leaving important storylines out of the books - suddenly Lucy is ATF with a line of explanation that of course explains nothing - could that had not been a good subplot?
The Gault plot is in fact not over and Catherine comes back with a vengeance.
Also, there is major wierdness between Lucy's boss and Kay - that really doesn't make sense - all around this is a strange book with a plot that revolves around Catherine but at the same time does make much clear.
Okay, I've given the spoiler warning so let's move on to my thoughts on this book!As I've been reading the earlier books in this series, I've gotten many comments on how this series kind of gets off track at some point causing many readers to stop reading.
Looking back at Goodreads shows that I rated at least two of them five star reads (and honestly I don't even think I rated or reviewed the others due to not always sharing my thoughts about books that are part of a series).
