https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3656.The_Sea
But some books provide an additional dimension for readers who are willing to put a little more time and thought into what they are reading and who enjoy digging a little deeper below the plot line to think about the things that motivate the characters to behave the way they do.
But for the rest of us, it's a great example of why we love to read in the first place....it's because we love to see our language used so beautifully in the hands of a writer who has such deep insights into some of the great themes that good literature has always dealt with.
However, with all the time that has passed between then and now, their once large summer home has become a boarding house, and he seeks it out to stay in and perhaps looks to his past to help him heal.As Max relates his story, moving back and forth between then and now, it is clear that his past influenced his future, and that his ‘now’ is also very much influencing how he views his past.
I was a very willing passenger on this journey with Max and there were times that something he said startled my own past memories into my reading experience.
Ah, the sea - especially the smell of the sea, a phrase as familiar as the idea that aromas have a visceral power to exhume memories we didn’t know we had ever had and lost.Smells of all sorts permeate the pages of this book and waft up, creating a synaesthetic connection to people and places in Max’s life.
The Depths of VocabularyJohn Banville loves words just as they are. Words like losel, and finical, gleet, scurf, bosky, cinerial, and merd that will really screw up your spell-checker. It's part of his masterful charm. Add his ability to put these words together in velvet sentences, and combine sentences into exquisite narrative, and voila: a writer worth his salt...as it were, especially with a title like The Sea. Inspired by Henry James? Very possibly, particularly by The Turn of the Screw and its permanent mystery. Nonetheless, uniquely and unmistakeably Banville.
"There is a formula, which fits painting perfectly," wrote Bonnard, "many little lies to create a great truth."Not only is the narrator of this novella, Max Morden, attempting to write a book about Bonnard, not only did Max's own wife during her painful decline enjoy the silent comfort of baths, but like Bonnard, he is trying to cobble together an image, one of his wife and his life, looking back as an aging widower.
New found memories which serve to wash away his conflicting emotions between the impotence of witnessing life quietly fading away and the cruel complacency of ordinary things allowing death to happen indifferently.But as Max invades his frozen memories he awakens ghosts long gone though never forgotten and the unsettling and seductive Grace twins, his childhood friends, will become sharply delineated on the wall of his memory, prompting unintended recollections about the strangeness and dislocation of one’s own existence and the immortal burden of being the survivor.”You are not even allowed to hate me a little, any more, like you used to” says Anna to Max with a sad, knowing smile.
Night, and everything so quiet, as if there were no one, not even myself. I cannot hear the sea, which on other nights rumbles and growls, now near grating, now afar and faint. I do not want to be alone like this. Why have you not come back to haunt me? Is the least I would have expected of you. Why this silence day after day, night after interminable night? It is like a fog, this silence of yours. What is John Banville’s The Sea all about? An infinite weave of contemplative and melancholic fee
Thus, Banville through Max seems to view a different sea from mine.
However, Max was not ready to give up on his guilt that still hangs on together with his memories of Anna.Still drowning in his grief, from his hard and recent loss, we read and feel for its inevitability, like the tide that stops for nothing, and Max unavoidable memories hurt and haunt him.
I have to confess that this was one of the scattered moments where I read more than the beauty of Banville well-chosen words; his suffering with the loss of his wife touched me deeply.
I just have to say it: it's all semiunremarkable until page 170 or so (this book, like many in the modern canon, such as “Amsterdam,” another Booker winner, is short in that bittersweet sort of way—perilously malingering, at 200 pages, between being almost a novel, but not quite a novella)—the plot ebbs and flows (ha) through an ocean of profound memories.
He meditates on the last one of these presages of death, that looming event itself, so final and sad—and the end really is like dynamite.
Here is a paramount example of how the ending makes the book.
The language in this short novel is very, very rich, evocative and annoyingly, sent me to the dictionary far too many times for comfort.
Two time-lines interweave as Max, a retired art critic, now living at The Cedars, a grand house of note from his youth, recalls those days when he lived with his family in much more modest surroundings and peered longingly into this place.
Banville is quite fond of deitific references, finding a different god or goddess for each of his characters.
Although it is a short novel, it seemed to take a long time to get going.
A gentleman reflects on his life, especially his youth, after the death of his wife.
He returns to the formative landscape of his childhood, a modest seaside town and inn in Ireland.
It is also the site of the formative tragedy of his childhood.
In effect, we have a coming-of-age novel as reflected upon in later life.
Instead of the psychological depth of Danish author Jens Grondahl reflecting on his marriage in Silence in October, we get lush descriptions and beautiful turns of phrase.
The Sea won the Booker Prize in 2005 and was picked as Novel of the Year by the Irish Book Awards in 2006.
I wish to thank my wonderful friend Seemita, who is truly an amazing reviewer, for inspiring me to read this book."The silence about me was heavy as the sea."Silence.
That is why the past is just such a retreat for me, I go there eagerly, shaking off the cold present and the colder future”Yet, he discovers that silence has been his companion his whole life.
I know so little of myself, how should I think to know another?”Has he walked into it for so long as to not be able to understand the world around him?
I certainly found it difficult to reconcile the essential crudeness of Max’s nature with his Proustian sensibility.
At times it seemed like the ambition of this novel was to write as many pretty sentences as possible rather than a novel.
There are good things, like the descriptions of his childhood crush on his friend’s mother and his dying wife and his response, though once again Banville can’t resist his misanthropic form of dark humour which consistently puts his character in the worst possible light – ironic as he’s always waxing lyrical in the book about the transfiguring nature of light.
The past beats inside me like a second heart.Max Morden had met once gods.
He takes a room in the Cedars but memory plays tricks on him.
Just then Max had gained this sad knowledge that  there is always a lover and a loved  and which role he would be playing in that act.
The sea  then, with its tides, is a record of that process, coming to terms with loss, dismantling of memory, family, love, past .Banville’s prose, perfectly fitting in with the gray and cold ubiquity of the sea, is elegiac and poetic.
If you're going to rely on character, however, you'd better make sure your characters are at least one, and preferably all, of the following: a) sympathetic; b) compelling; c) more than merely a place marker for inflated, if not particularly profound, ruminations on the Big Questions.One of Banville's passages may illustrate what bothers me most about this book.
What's more surprising, though, is that, for all his lovely style, Banville leaves us with very little impression that anyone in this book ever really has lived.In the book's final passages, Max Morden likens the moment of his wife's death to a moment in his childhood when he had been lifted up by a suddenly surging sea, carried toward shore a bit, and then set down again.
I was finally inspired (or moved?) to read 'the Sea' (and a couple other Ireland-themed novels) because I was going to spend a week with the wife in Ireland and there is nothing better to read about on vacation than sex*, death, loss and sand.
It is a picnic to park Banville's summer blanket next to Beckett or Joyce (yes, fine, they all dropped from their mother's wombs onto the same emerald island).
It is easy to play the literary cousin game and compare Banville to Proust or Nabokov or Henry James.
I haven't read enough of Banville to say he measures up to Proust or Nabokov, but damn this book was fine.
The silence about me was heavy as the sea.  Sitting by the sea, I am trying hard to evade the embrace of camphoric memories that hover schemingly, stroked by the amorous waves. Often this colossal sapphire vial of solitude, seduced by a flicker of cuprous sky or a kiss of the timorous breeze, changes colour and instead of heaping balms of comfort, loathes me with a vision so sharp that a part of me detaches with a vile force and travels into the dense, supine but thorny gardens of bygone land.
Its flickering pulse does enough to keep our life monitors active and we simply take solace in the fact that it adorns our life; much like a vintage clock that does not show the right time any more but the time it shows cannot be displayed by any modern timepiece.I return my glance to the sea and wonder if it ever felt the need to demerge past and present to keep the belligerent duo from infiltrating the fragile fabric of human heart that comes to its arms in search of aching succor.
Moj prvi susret sa Banvilom i mogu reci samo GENIJALNO!
The title says it all: the main character is neither the narrator, nor his late wife, nor Rosie, the plot is not (only) one that unfolds over the pages.
No, the main point of this novel is the sea.
The sea and the tides, the sea and its threat, the sea and its beauty, the sea and its sounds.After the death of his wife, Max returns to the scene of his childhood, a summer in particular.
And the drama we feel is not the one we believe.A novel to be tasted softly, of great sensitivity, which makes you want to discover the other books of the author.
I really thought this was going to be a special book for me to read, and it just wasn’t. This book is narrated by Max, a man with childhood memories of time spent by the sea, with a family that greatly influenced him. Max has recently lost his wife, and goes back to the place by the sea where the childhood memories took place.This is the longest short book I’ve ever read, I had to stop and look up words in the dictionary, continuously. It’s probably just me... there are many beautiful reviews for this book.
Drawn to the Grace twins, Chloe and Myles, Max soon finds himself entangled in their lives, which are as seductive as they are unsettling.
The seabirds mewled and swooped, unnerved, it seemed, by the spectacle of that bowl of water bulging like a blister, lead-blue and malignantly agleam.
(p3, Picador hardcover edition)This gorgeous, sumptuous repast, this unsettling, foreboding atmosphere, this unbearably tense muscle in the brain MUST be leading to some cathartic, catastrophic release!
There's a backstory to the catharsis, but it's all written in the ever-so-much of a writer's writing, and like the sugary sweetness of Renoir and Monet, in large doses it simply doesn't wear all that well.
I actually put this book in the same category as James Frey's "Million Little Pieces": so bad, it was enjoyable to read.
I've read too many books in which the plot occurs in the last chapter to be amazed or blown away or impressed by the conclusion.
In the end, it's a mere device to produce tension when it couldn't be created in a more honest fashion (because of course the protagonist already knows all the secrets that are kept from the reader).
I trust my intelligence enough to say that this discovery merely points to the fact that Banville has lost sight of what "impressive writing" is.
The Sea  - All that water, perhaps, that inexorable slow flood, or perhaps, that relentless ambulatory constant, is one that consumes time, more like dedimentionizes time, if that's a word, provides a cathartic shoulder, and stands remorselessly tall as if symbolizing an indifferent eternity. It cries within like a whimpering child as if it is made purely of emotions, and it roars in insurmountable outrage at the shore which is in a constant tussle to bind it. But it also retreats like a capric
Or so it happened with Max Morden and his implacable past that beat in him like a second heart.The story here really doesn't make an impact because that's not where we are allowed to focus even for one second in this marvelous little book.
But most of all, it most assuredly has a character of its own, like a person living in our heads.This day when I find myself indulged so completely in my memories and how similarly or differently I look at them as compared to Max, I realize the multitudes of spaces, dimensions, emotions, and time that we are capable of traversing and transcending.
In many cases, I ended up returning to places from my own childhood and reconnecting with people whom I had not contacted for years.
For Max, mystery and tragedy were deeply embedded in his youthful past.While there are clear differences in Max’s and my returns to our pasts, Max’s emotional responses to working through grief were similar.
He would remember meeting the Grace family and becoming emotionally attached to the mother, Mrs. Grace, and to falling in love with her daughter Chloe.This is my first Banville book and I must say I was pleasantly surprised.
The style is so uniquely different than anything I've read before.The Sea won the 2005 Man Booker Prize, beating Ishiguro's Never Let Me Go by one vote.
I haven't read that so I won't compare.
But I liked this book, I like Banville's writing, and I give it four solid stars.
The Sea by John Banville began with an enigmatic mention of an unforgettable day in the life of the narrator, Max Morden.
Max had returned to the Cedars, a childhood summer seaside house, ‘to live amidst the rubble of the past’ after his wife (Anna) died.
Max returned to Cedars to cope with bereavement and live in the present.
There was a reason why these memories were co-mingled but you had to wait to the end to find out.Max, the narrator, was hard to like.
The Sea is my first novel by John Banville, another Irish writer whose work I wish to read more of in the new year.
Uno sforzo enorme, come si può facilmente immaginare, arrivare alla fine.
Valutare il libro una stella e scrivere un commento che esternasse il profondo schifo che mi aveva suscitato la lettura?No, non l'ho fatto.
Tutto diviene malinconico se ci si concentra su ciò che poteva essere e non è stato e se lo sguardo è rivolto esclusivamente all'indietro, al nostro passato.
"Forse tutta la vita non è altro che una lunga preparazione a lasciarla"Raffinato, elegante, colto, delicato, equilibrato, malinconico, sfumato, introspettivo, cupo, emotivo e emozionante, terso e freddo come una giornata al mare in inverno.Un libro bellissimo, se letto nel momento giusto.
During his childhood stays he got close to a family who was also staying there but in a more privileged position than Max. The family consisted of mother, father, son and daughter and the children's Nanny.As usual for a teenage boy he enjoys the closeness of his new found friends, Myles and Chloe, but a more unusual relationship is had with the mother, Mrs. Grace.
As the story unravels it picks up the pace in the interest stakes and becomes quite a tragic tale, both for Max in the past and for Max at present.John Banville can mesmerize with he prose and in some cases, I feel it is a little overdone.
It was structured well, too, switching often among settings: his boyhood summers in a seaside town, obsessed by young love; his last year with his charming, though human, wife; and his visit again to the sea as an older man with his memories and a bottle.
The atmosphere was dense in a foggy sort of way.I’m debating between 3 and 4 stars.
When I think back, maybe it was a little too lyrical for my taste (which surprised me because I don’t remember feeling that way with the other Banville book I read, The Untouchable).
In the face of so many sublime reviews of this book I come up short. After the loss of his wife, Max comes adrift and seeks some kind of fertilization from visiting the seaside town of holidays in his childhood. Nice immersion in people and memories, but ultimately the book came off as too bland as Max had too little at stake, too little impetus to reshape his vision of the world, and not enough angst to take real risks.
Although it must have held I do not know how many scores of gallons, it was always full almost to the brim, thanks to the frequency of rain in these parts, even, or especially, in summer.”The narrator is pretending to write a book about the painter Bonnard and here is one of my favorite passages from The Sea, which surely brought to mind the sumptuous bath of language:“In 1927, Bonnard bought a house, Le Bosquet, in the undistinguished little town of Le Cannet on the Cote d’Azur, where he lived with Marthe, bound with her in intermittenly tormented seclusion, until her death fifteen years later.
