https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/83674.The_Bridges_of_Madison_County
parafin in 4 1/2 quart slow cooker set on low--should take about 20 minutes.2.
set several sheets of newspaper on kitchen floor next to slow cooker.3.
With tongs, dip each crumpled page into the parafin.
Carefully set dipped,crumpled pages on newspaper to dry.7.
If preferred, repeat steps 4 and 5 to get a thicker coat of parafin on each page.
9. VERY IMPORTANT: Carefully dispose of left over parafin in an empty coffee can and unplug slow cooker.
Each time you use your fireplace, place a few crumpled pages of The Bridges of Madison County on your logs, ignite with flame source and enjoy watching them burn!
You guys have completely lost the plot.You simply can't say that this is not a good book.
It's well written, the story stands its ground and there is that bit of intrinsec poetry which can make a good read into an excellent one.And remember, it is a book!
Nothing else.It is a story of true love, that can happen even after one gets married (oh what a wonder!) and that can lead someone's life into turmoil for maybe the only time ever.The movie was brilliant and the book is no less.
I am simply astonished at some comments.
Set between a frame story (utterly forgettable) employed to give the reader a sense of being privy to a real event, voyeurism at it's best--one of my acquaintances actually tried to find the characters from the novel in the real world using the Internet, convinced Waller could never have made the story up.
He carries a Nikon and snaps pictures) called Robert Kincaid.
Note: not Robert, but Robert Kincaid, like James, James Bond; for the slow reader, two names means he's different.
But then instead of going off with the exciting man, Frannie, as her unexciting husband calls her, decides to stay because of her "responsibilities." Later she regrets it and finds out Robert never loves again.
This was a bestseller for 2 years when I first became a bookseller. It is no coincidence that I started to hate most people with a deep and abiding passion around that time as well. Robert James Waller writes sex scenes that are so moronic you wonder if he's ever had it himself.Bottom Line: I've read more romantic things on Craigslist.
that tells the story of a married but lonely Italian-American woman (war bride) living on a 1960s Madison County, Iowa, farm.
Sometimes I wish that negative stars were allowed...this book deserves the Anti-Star.
I wanted to read this book because everyone I knew had read it and love it and wept over it.
"The greatest love story of all time." blah blah blah.~~Spoiler Alert~~I have a serious pet peeve.
A love story does NOT involve adultery.
(Period!with a capital P) I have also started to question anyone who thinks that a "great" love story can only happen if you cheat on your spouse, or steal another persons spouse or any combination of the above.And it is further insulting that the adulteress kids are intrigued that their mother had a relationship with someone OTHER than their father and thinks it would be FUN or interesting to discover more about it.
I would like to rewrite this book and place it in the stark light of reality, where the neighbors report to her husband that his wife is a whore; when she has to explain to him where she picked up the STD and why there are crabs in their bed; where he throws her out on her ass and she DOES go off with her "true love" only to find that he has a wandering eye and a drinking problem, and often goes off on photographic jaunts where he beds other lonely housewives like herself.
I wonder what Waller, the 8 year old doofus responsible for "The Bridges of Madison County" is like in real life.
Like, is he for instance the dashing "last cowboy" he so "romanticizes"?
Or more like the tepid housewife who looks at the nothingness that is Iowa (oh forgotten state!
what did you ever do to deserve this?) and nods in approval.
Did he grin in a stupid daze with his mouth full of Oreos...
all the way teeheehee to the bank?
All I know is that this belongs in the same category as (The Granddaddy of S*** novelists) Nicholas Sparks.
It was absolutely wonderful.
I started it like an hour ago, and I already savored its 170 pages.
I want a love like this, but one that can happen.
She should have divorced and moved on-- be brave if true love finds you.
It ended as happily as a novel like this could.Its also made me mildly interested in photography.
Funny how that works.AFTERTHOUGHTS:I just read some of the comments about this book from others...
I feel bad for the people that didn't enjoy this book.
They obviously couldn't open up to how wonderful the novel could be for them.
'The human heart has a way of making itself large again even after it's been broken into a million pieces.'  The story and the plot are beautiful and realistic in a way that few books nowadays manage to be, and it impacted me deeply. A very emotional read.
I read it over the summer because I had just taken a photography class and I was interested in a lot of related stuff.
I found the book on my mom's bookshelf and picked it up mainly because of the fact that the man is a photographer.I read that book in a day, I couldn't put it down.
It was probably one of the greatest works I have ever read and possibly will ever read.I would recommend The Bridges of Madison County to anybody who wanted to read a good literature...
well, anybody over the age of about 14 or so.
Oh, por Dios! ¿Cómo puede ser que haya tardado tanto tiempo en leer este libro? ¿Cómo puede ser que hasta hace dos días, no se haya decidido a entrar en mi vida? Por Dios, qué historia tan bonita; tan mágica, tan llena de sentimientos...
The literary version of Thomas Kinkade.
They were novels by Stephen King, John Grisham, Tom Clancy, Daniel Steele and Robert Ludlum.
On that same year the simple, acoustic yet heartfelt song Pagdating ng Panahon by Aiza Seguerra topped the Best-Selling Albums list in the local music industry leaving by miles the likes of belter Regine Velasquez and the local bands Parokya ni Edgar and Eraserheads.The Bridges of Madison County is a sensitive simple tragic love story.
By design, Waller knew what he wanted: a simple yet heartfelt love story maybe to differentiate his work from the horrors of Stephen King, courtroom dramas of John Grisham or the espionage adventures of Robert Ludlum.
I still adore the friend, and have liked plenty of other books she recommended, but I was actually ANGRY with her for WEEKS for causing me to have read this book.
This was my all-time "worst book I ever read (to the end)" until I read "The Devil Wears Prada."I wouldn't disparage anyone who DOES like this book, obviously, but to say it wasn't my cup of tea would be...WILDLY kind.
It's like eating a Twinkie, which is bad enough, but let's say that particular Twinkie got deep fried in the shrimp basket.Whoa.
It will just drive up to their house and hump them and it will be ok because their marriage sucks and they decide to stay in said crap marriage rather than run off - because running off would be cliche.
Happiness is cliche and should be shunned.
I think the other thing that pissed me off - other than the writing and the content - was that it was actually a short story that they wrote in a small book in large print.
It's a study in how to stretch a short story into a "novel".
Francesca is a housewife living in Iowa where no one--not her children, her husband or her neighbors--see her for the beautiful, fascinating worldly woman she is.
Until that fateful day when Robert Kinkaid, a handsome, fascinating worldly man shows up on her doorstep asking for directions.
And everyone cries.Obviously, Waller is pandering to the dowdy housewives among us who yearn to have a handsome, worldly man who sees us for the fascinating women we believe ourselves to be.
Waller ignores the fact that every man (even the jerkiest of jerks) can be wonderful for the first four days.From beginning to end, this book set my teeth on edge.
3,5/5 αστεράκια
I'm embarrassed to have read this maudlin piece of shit.
When freelance photographer Robert Kincaid stops at her doorstep seeking directions to the various covered bridges in the area they find themselves caught up in a love affair that knows no boundaries."This is why I'm here on this planet, Francesca.
I have been falling from the rim of a great, high place, somewhere back in times, for many more years than I have lived in this life.
Don't read this book if you are cynical, biased, or jaded about love.
Do read this book if you believe that the force of love can change your life in an instant.
**5 " Once in a lifetime story" STARS** Robert James Waller, you've made me a walking contradiction. Review to come once I get my thoughts in order... it may take a while.
El libro me gustó bastante cuando lo leí, aunque hay escenas que están pensadas para hacerte llorar si o si. Lo que recomiendo encarecidamente es la película, una auténtica maravilla sobre el amor a cualquier edad.
EMOTIONALLY EVOCATIVE LOVE STORYMy only regret is that this novel was not longer. It is one of the most beautiful love stories I have ever read, and Romance is not one of my favorite genres in contemporary literature. With an economy of words, Waller says much, and there is much emotion to be felt via the two protagonists. Because of its brevity, I will not say any more for fear of creating spoilers, which would be doing a great disservice to this splendid tale.Read it! You will be glad you did.Phyllis Eisenstadt
I read this on a plane so luckily I had an endless supply of sick bags handy. Truly one of the worst books I have ever read. Partly because it masquerades as a "proper novel". Bleargh. Retch.
Read on the WondrousBooks blog.  * Spoilers ahead. Though, honestly, if you've read even one Nicholas Sparks book, none of this should come as a surprise. * So, I looked at the bestseller lists for 1993 and this one was the top book for the entire year. I needed a book published in '93, because of the 2015 Reading Challenge: A Book That Came Out the Year You Were Born. I later found out that it was actually published in 1992, but I consider my duty done, since I couldn't find anything else conn
There's insta-love, almost insta-sex and a tragic separation of two people who are truly meant to be together - I mean, he asked her for directions, she noticed how sexily sweaty he is and that he has sweat stains on watch and drops of sweat on his chest, and decided to invite him over to show off her sexy 49-year-old butt and to shag him on their second "date".And to top that off, just before she died she wrote a letter to her children, which innocently starts with:
"If possible, please sit at the old kitchen table to read [this letter].
May God have mercy on the souls of all those who braved this hideous creation.
However, reading the book felt a little like watching a movie unfold.
"I have one thing to say, one thing only; I'll never say it another time, to anyone, and I ask you to remember it:  In a universe of ambiguity, this kind of certainty comes only once, and never again, no matter how many lifetimes you live."   Do I know love?
A love like this one?
I truly hope so and maybe one of these lifetimes I will be as certain of the truth in those words as Robert and Francesca.
This short novel, ostensibly about an affair between Robert and a married Francesca, has its share of critics.
A fleeting affair with a great deal of mutual nostalgia later.
Thirdly it does not seem that there is a moral takeaway to the story, or at least little in the way of consequences.
I think this may seem banal but probably true to life in many cases.I understand that the characters were incomplete and the writing a little clumsy but I would also say that the book is unique, vivid in its way and worth reading.
Everything about this book is ice cube slowly melting on hot skin. His essence which he wore like a mantle regally, reached into her strangled mute soul and caused it to speak again, to live again.Excellent good read!  Here's the thing. I think those of us in the avid readers club sleep a lot of books that go to cinema. We may think, I saw the movie, I liked or didn't like it, why bother with the books. This is a thought process that we are all guilty of and I am working diligently to correct t
Robert the author causes the helpless reader to fall head over heels as completely in love with Robert the character as his lady love Francesca.
Once you have, one thing is for sure, you will be so immersed, so intertwined within their feelings and as a reader and experiencer of real life you might feel like you were just temporarily possessed by these people because the experience was so deep.
I appreciated that the author didn't just give us a brilliant love story floating in the clouds to ride off into the sunset because that is not reality.
In Brokeback Mountain, the fact that the story is a love story takes center stage and you almost forget you're reading about two men.
It's just a story of a love that the two participants feel they can't have, and a life that they feel they can't share.This is really the same kind of story.
It's sad when something condemns two who love to confinement in separate lives which are unfulfilling, taking only a brief, shining moment with them through the whole of it.
