https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39988.Matilda
This book was so great! I do enjoy the movie a bit more, but nevertheless this will always be a favorite of mine. I also really want to re-read some more Roald Dahl books now!
Absolutely delightful. I really wish I'd read this when I was a kid - I would have related to and loved Matilda so much! I like that this is a book for children that doesn't cater to them - it treats them like intelligent beings. The plot was exciting, the characters fun, and the themes interesting.All together I've only read two Dahl books now (Matilda and Charlie and the Chocolate Factory) but I definitely want to keep reading them!
As an adult I see this as a book about gross neglect and a commentary on absentee parenting and its role in our children's education.
I come from a county where the dropout rate is high and everyone wants to blame the teachers, but no one identifies the real problem of parents or caregivers not taking an active role in their child's schooling.
Once in a while you have a special case like Matilda who decides to work on her education on her own, despite the indifference of her parents.
Does anyone really, truly love to learn as much as Matilda?  Books gave Matilda a hopeful and comforting message: You are not alone. She is such an inspiration - and not only because of the freaky telekinetics. When I first read this book as a fifth grader, I absolutely connected with her. FINALLY! someone who likes to read as much as me! I would spend hours at the library with my mother, steadily reading my way through a pack of books. It was my dream to say,  “I'm wondering what to read next."
When I first read this book as a fifth grader, I absolutely connected with her.
I would spend hours at the library with my mother, steadily reading my way through a pack of books.
“I'm wondering what to read next." Matilda said.
Unfortunately, I never got the chance but I firmly maintain that if my mother took me to a (significantly) smaller library then I (maybe) could've said Matilda's signature line.Two, very important things:1) Matilda belongs to an absolutely terrible family.
She finds solace in books and in a few rather clever pranks on her folks.When Matilda is old enough, she is sent to primary school, in Miss Honey's class.
Matilda is a lovely little book. It’s a book about standing up against bullies (no matter who the bullies are.) It’s also a book about learning to live with yourself, about being who you are despite the pressures those who are supposed to love you may exert on your personality. It’s a book written for readers and one that establishes so firmly why reading is so damn important in a world that is becoming increasingly detached from the things that truly matter in life. I wish I’d read it when I was a kid.
5 stars from my little girl, Jess (age 7).SPOILERS!Comments while reading:"Matilda's parents are sooo stupid!""What is a 'used car salesman'?""How does putting sawdust and oil in a car's gearbox make it run smoother?""The funniest parts are when Miss Trunchbull hurled the kids out of the classroom, and when the newt fell on her.""How come Miss Trunchbull made Nigel stand with one leg up while facing the wall? That's a weird punishment.""What?! Miss Honey's wicked aunt is Miss Trunchbull?""What is a will?""I'm glad that Matilda can live with Miss Honey."
Book Review  Roald Dahl gets 4+ out of 5 stars for his knock-it-out-of-the-park story, Matilda, from 1988. For some reason, I thought this was published before 1988, but I know I read it when I was 13, so... must have been right then. I thought it was great. Looking back years later, and seeing all the films and cartoons made from it, I love it even more. While she's a good role model in many ways for young kids, she's all a little too spunky and might give some the wrong impressions. Neverthe
Book Review
For some reason, I thought this was published before 1988, but I know I read it when I was 13, so...
I thought it was great.
everything all wrapped up into 1 adorable young girl.
Great book.
Great story.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog at https://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV & Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world.
Many thanks to their original creators.
5 stars for another Roald Dahl masterpiece!
He adds a way of life, in the form of magic, to his characters.
Many have mentioned to me that they read several of his books when they were children.
I guess I am just one of those people that missed out reading him when I was younger however, I am extremely happy to discover him now and know that my grandchildren are reading his books also.
This story was made into a movie also and I can't wait to see it.
I highly recommend reading Roald Dahl if you haven't already experienced this author.
The best!!! Thanks to Samra!!!! She brought back great memories....This was a favorite of my daughters when she was around 8 or 9 years old. Some books just make you smile --connect mothers and daughters reading together --make us laugh - and remind us of simple pleasures. This is 'that' type of book!
This was SO CUTE I’M IN LOVE. But I think I like the movie better (?), I want to re-watch it soon.
Miss Honey also tries to talk to Mr. and Mrs. Wormwood about Matilda's intelligence, but they ignore her.
Dahl deals, although sometimes only in a line or two, with some difficult and adult concepts in the book.
He deals with them lightly and as positively as possible but those concepts include suicide, crime, childhood mistreatment, and abandonment.Matilda is a five-year-old girl still living with both parents and her brother in a standard family situation.
Matilda is the story of this strong young girl who learns early on what is right and what is wrong and makes a stance for herself and others.
What a delight.
Ms. Trunchpull was run out of town thanks to Matilda and everything was like new after Ms. Honey adopted her.* Wait okay i did ruin more of the book for you but i did not tell you about the newt or why Ms. Honey takes in the little girl so it is still worth a read.I sadly cannot rate this book with five stars.......
The whole Wormwood family was what made the story fun and whenever the author cut them out just so Matilda could go to school......Well it was kind of dissapointing.
It's about a reader who just wants to get her read on and bad people are trying to stop her.
Matilda just wants to read.
After being crapped on enough times, Matilda begins taking out her revenge in the whip-smartest ways and so ensues the fun!Dahl's style is all over this.
Negatives include some unbelievably bad bad guy moments that leave us boring adult readers thinking, "well that could never happen"...because we're dumb.
Historically speaking, when she's come to visit it becomes a whirlwind of "WHAT DO WE DO NEXT!!!", because when she was about 3 to 5 years old I just wanted to keep her entertained.
I will definitely be investing in more Roald Dahl books, because I thought this one was beautiful and the pictures went with it so well and all the descriptions were so nice and it was such an enjoyable reading experience.However, I docked a star from this because I felt as if there was some antagonization of athletic and overweight women.
I realize that a lot of the situations in this book are hyperbolized, but literally throwing kids around with no penalties even though another adult was present felt very abusive and although Matilda and Lavender worked to play pranks on her to get her back, it read as really severe and actually made me uncomfortable and pitiful for the children at certain points.
"You chose books and I chose looks." Matilda's mom kills me.
I pretended to be dumb like Matilda and said I hadn't read any of the books and they were trophies to make me look smart.
My favorite characters were the nasty ones like Matilda's parents.
He'd have hated tuna fish sandwiches and that disgusting '80s fad of "a train going through a tunnel", fo' sho.I can't believe the big deal made about margarine versus butter.
I remember reading Matilda and getting hungry over all the food stuff.
My first review in 2017!Matilda,my most beloved character and reason for my insatiable love for children's classicsI've read it quite countless times,listened to audio version while in most shitty mood,have adored it every time but never came up with a word to say on it.Well,today I heard it in my way back to home,and i thought to make it reviewed at long last!The exceptional Matilda is about a smart, easily infuriated little girl who is misunderstood by her parents and loathed by the school's headmistress.
Such a heart-warming tale of a young girl, living a tough life, and finding a way to come out of it.
Matilda is basically a child prodigy; she is 4 years old and a voracious reader.
That is amazing, I know!
But, Matilda is not the only character.
There are the tyrannical parents who do not encourage reading, do not have a shred of love or sympathy for Matilda and basically hate Matilda for some unknown reason.
I realize that it’s a children’s book and they don’t go about analyzing these things.
Yes, I know it is not meant for my age group and so my opinion doesn’t matter and I didn’t consciously take out my microscope and start looking for flaws in this book.
ظلت تقرأ وهذا آثار جنونه..لقد كانت تنال المتعة من شيء لا يفهمه الا تكفين عن القراءة ابدا؟ 📚حسنا !!كم
I have short-changed this story by giving it 3 stars for so long. I ran out and bought this book for my little nieces for Christmas. No way they will grow up without Matilda in their life. She's brilliant! What a love for books and knowledge! Such a gentle, empathetic soul! I can't wait to share her with them.8/28/17Listening to this for the third time...I just adore Kate Winslet's narration. She's fantastic, perfect for children and adults.,11/12/17Audible relisten I just cannot get enough of t
I have short-changed this story by giving it 3 stars for so long.
I ran out and bought this book for my little nieces for Christmas.
No way they will grow up without Matilda in their life.
She's brilliant!
What a love for books and knowledge!
Such a gentle, empathetic soul!
I can't wait to share her with them.8/28/17Listening to this for the third time...I just adore Kate Winslet's narration.
She's fantastic, perfect for children and adults.,11/12/17Audible relisten I️ just cannot get enough of this story.
It’s whimsy and love of books keeps me entertained while I️ clean.5/24/18 audio reread #55
REVIEW TO COME TODAY. The books transported her into new worlds and introduced her to amazing people who lived exciting lives. this book tells us about a brilliant little girl named Matilda Wormwood and she loves reading books. But her parents seem don't really proud of her and they don't even care much about her and her father is mean so when he treats her badly, She will ' teach ' him a lesson and one day something peculiar happens to her ...  My Opinion When I was a kid, I watched the movie a
I didn't really enjoy reading this book and I think it's because I already knew the story because I watched the movie several times and my expression was like this most of the time it was so boring and when I didn't read this book, I felt just fine because I was bored most of the time.
I mean when we read a book that is so cool and enjoyable, we must feel like we want to keep reading it and when we do stopped reading it we feel so impatient to be able to continue it again but that didn't happen to me while I was reading it and I shouldn't have felt this way but I have to admit that I love the movie more ...
As much as I love Roald Dahl's story (and this audiobook, read by Kate Winslet, was so fun), the movie of Matilda will always be my favourite. Perfection.
Roald Dahl crafted unapologetically over-the-top characters for this book: When she marched -- Miss Trunchbull never walked, she always marched like a storm-trooper with long strides and arms aswinging -- when she marched along a corridor you could actually hear her snorting as she went, and if a group of children happened to be in her path, she ploughed right through them like a tank, with small people bouncing off her to left and right.
A girl should think about making herself look attractive so she can get a good husband later on.
Looks is more important than books, Miss Hunky .
La verdad es que siempre tuve curiosidad por leer este libro ya que siempre amé la peli, pero honestamente esperaba otra cosas y resultó no ser mi favorito de Roald Dahl, tiene obras mucho más ingeniosas y entretenidas.Lo dejo en un me gustó.Sin embargo, le voy a dar cinco estrellas porque:1º es Roald Dahl2º es Matilda3º detesto a los adultos que le dan puntajes negativos a libros infantiles. Dios no permita que me convierta en uno alguna vez :P
Matilda is a little girl who is far too good to be true.
At the age of five-and-a-half she's knocking off double digit multiplication problems and blitz-reading Dickens.Matilda Wormwood is often I'll-treated by her parents and older brother, Michael.
Her class teacher, Miss Honey, is the only person Matilda believes in.
This is a fun read.
I loved this book.
A book kids will love to either read by themselves or to be read to.
Adults will enjoy this book as well.I would like to thank NetGalley, Penguin Random House UK, Children's and the author Roald Dahl for my ARC in exchange for an honest review.
Matilda is such a famous book/movie that I think it doesn't need a synopsis.So, I'll get into the middle of things and admit that this is my first time reading the book (and my first time seeing the movie).
*hides* The reason I read this in the first place is that Matilda is my son's next book assignment.
And yet I am thrilled about this book.
I absolutely love it and highly recommend it (to those who, like myself, failed to read it until now).P.S. I very much prefer the book to the movie.
All the reading she had done had given her a view of life that they had never seen.This book was so heartwarming. And it just proved that Dahl was (and always will be) one of the best storytellers ever. The way he writes and how he draws you into the story will always amaze me. This is my second book of his, but it definitely won't be my last.Amazing book, that I think everybody should read, at least once.
Reading Matilda was fun and an easy read. I have to be honest and say I do definitely prefer the movie. I've watched it a few times and Matilda in the movie is a little star. My book is going to two small girls who are dying to read it so no regrets at all.
Sinceramente, me ha encantado 😊
