https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32542.A_Time_to_Kill
THOUGHTS:However......now that I have both seen the movie version and read the book, my final verdict is that the film is both more enjoyable and the higher quality product of the two.
Too much fluff: When you can take a 528 page book and condense it into a 2+ hour movie that captures perfectly the essence of the story and manages to be even more emotionally powerful, it indicates that the novel was a little thin in the story department.
If you've seen the movie, I don't think you are missing much by skipping the book.
However, if you haven't seen the film, I would recommend reading the book first and then watching the adaptation.
This 1988 first Grisham novel is outstanding. 10 of 10 stars!
The premise was so interesting that it was impossible not to pick this book up: A ten-year-old girl is raped by two drunken men, and her father takes the law into his own hands by killing the rapists of his daughter.
The reader always bears in his mind how the jury would be reacting in case the roles were reversed - if two black men had raped a white girl of ten years -, but the fact that acquitting the father of his crime would encourage many other people to commit self-administered justice too also needs to be taken into account.Might this premise deliver storytelling material for so many pages?
Riveting, somber and powerful, A Time to Kill is a totally unforgettable legal thriller telling of secluded prejudice in a small Southern town, and one lawyer who wants to change the world.
A Time to Kill, John GrishamA Time to Kill is a 1988 legal thriller by John Grisham.
It was Grisham's first novel.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه اکتبر سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: زمانی برای کشتن؛ نویسنده: جان گریشام؛ مترجم: هادی عادلپور؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، کوشش، 1378، در 526 ص؛ شابک: 9646636145؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 معنوان: زمانی برای کشتن؛ نویسنده: جان گریشام؛ مترجم: جواد سید اشرف؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، زرین، 1378، در 640 ص؛ شابک: 9644070178؛ داستان وکیل جوانی به نام «جیک بریگانس» است که دفاع از یک متهم سیاه پوست، در برابر هیئت منصفه ای سفیدپوست را برعهده میگیرد، جریان بسیار پیچیده، اما جذاب و شیرین پیش میرود.
«زمانی برای کشتن» نخستین کتاب «جان گریشام»، و گویا نزدیکترین اثر به شخصیت ایشان باشد.
This book totally rocked my world! I had asked for a legal thriller as a recommendation and I'm glad to have this one suggested! The racial tension in this story felt as real as it did in To Kill A Mockingbird. I felt I was right there in Clanton, Mississippi trying to dodge the KKK and marching with everyone else. This is my first Grisham novel, and I'll definitely be exploring more!
Read when it first came out. I really ought to reread this prior to reading Sycamore Row. I remember being captivated with the story of Jake Brigance but I details are sketchy at best at this time. Seems like a summer reread is on the horizon.
Only after the success of The Firm and other of Grisham's books was this one finally resurrected and released in paperback.Like most of Grisham's other readers, I jumped aboard the train with The Firm and never looked back.
Though I've enjoyed most of his later books, I simply took it for granted that this first effort was probably his "practice" novel, that it was not very good, and hence the poor sales.
In fact, it may be one of his best.The tiny town of Clanton, Mississippi, is shocked when two drunk and drug-addled thugs viciously assault a ten-year-old girl, failing to kill her only because they could not find a bridge from which to throw the child.
Continuing with my reading of all Grisham titles.
This is the first I've read of the southern trial novels.
Extensive use of the N word was disturbing but it's used for an accurate portrayal of the voice of white southerners of the period, not gratuitously.
Much more disturbing was the scene of the violent attack on a little girl that's the basis of the story.
Again, not gratuitous.
This novel was based on a true story.
A thoughtful and thought provoking reminder of the cruelty and racial prejudice in our not-so-far past.
Really interesting descriptions of the trial and the jury and its deliberations.
A satisfying legal thriller.Grisham gives the reader much to ponder in this story of a black man who kills two men who raped and brutally beat his 10 year-old daughter.
It also makes one wonder if the story would have worked as well had it been his wife or sister who had been raped instead (probably not), which in and of itself is worth thinking about.
It certainly makes one wonder if and when murder is ever justifiable, and exactly how we draw those lines in the sand as individuals and as a society.That said, there were times the characters felt one dimensional.
One of my least favorite Grisham's books, and that's saying something.
Actually I kind of liked The Pelican Brief and one or two of his others, but mostly they strike me as mediocre writing combined, more often than not, with pulpit-pounding and breast-beating about some legal issue.
Grisham, as par for the course, loads the dice on that issue.I've only read as many of Grisham's books as I have because my father-in-law (another voracious reader) thought that because I was a lawyer I would automatically like Grisham books, so I regularly received them from him as birthday and Christmas presents.
My FIL is gone now, may he rest in peace, so no more Grisham for me.
There are 104 pages of review on this book, and I read two pages worth and agreed with a dozen or so.
I always wondered why cheap thrillers like this book never get discussed in great literature classes and I think I can answer that question.
Grisham evidently thinks so and the reader most likely will feel sympathy for the "killer"- Carl Lee. This is my third John Grisham book- I agree with the readers who say once you've read one Grisham book, you've read them all.
The whole book left me feeling really empty and thinking what am I doing wasting my time reading these types of books?
My favorite Grisham, and I've read almost all of them. He states in his own words that sometimes he gets "a bit verbose" - but I really liked it because of the depth that he goes into on the characters, which is mostly absent from his other stories.
I liked it.
Now the black dad is on trial for his life, and attorney Jake Brigantz (the archetype of all Grisham lawyers to come in future novels – young, cocky, inexperienced lawyer takes on an evil entity, in this case racism) has taken on the case in order to keep the well-meaning father off death row.
At the heart of the novel is the question, “Would you convict a man for killing the men that raped and beat his daughter?” Grisham effectively sets the stage for a theme of conditional morality that carries really well throughout the book.
My first John Grisham novel was his latest release, The Whistler: a capable, if not entirely thrilling, read.
Set in northeastern Mississippi (an area I've ridden through many times, and have a certain affection for), a young black girl is kidnapped and brutally raped by two white rednecks, both career criminals despite only being in their twenties.
There is no black or white here, only a world of gray; while most readers can sympathize with the girl's father, was it right of him to murder the men?
I know I certainly look at the American justice system in a new light after reading this fabulous novel.
I won’t write anything about the plot itself – most people know it anyways, either because there are tons of good summarizing reviews out there, or because they have read or seen the movie (which isn’t nearly as good as the book) themselves.
It is very different from what we know in Europe and I was super curious to get a little information on the American system in this book and I have to say that the parts of the book set in the courthouse were by far the ones I enjoyed the most.
This is also a first time read for me with this author.SynopsisIn this searing courtroom drama, best-selling author John Grisham probes the savage depths of racial violence...as he delivers a compelling tale of uncertain justice in a small southern town...Clanton, Mississippi.
I also found this story to be very thought provoking as was a young adult in the year that this book was written.
Reading this book brought that to the forefront for me.
Since I was recommended this book, I must recommend it as well, even for those who do not like courtroom dramas like me.
I think this book could change your mind.
I picked it up at the library just browsing for something light - I liked Pelican Brief and thought I would read another John Grisham.
I think Mr. Grisham is trying to protray Clanton, Mississippi as the main character and to do this employs a lot of stereotypes about the deep south, including extensive use of the "n" word, as well as describing others in the town as "the whites" "the rednecks" etc.
The main character, Jack Brigance is completely unbelievable as an ambitious lawyer - would an ambitious lawyer given the best case of his life really drink three margaritas before the closing arguments and argue most of the case hungover?
Speaking about what he knows best--the law and Mississippi--Grisham brings the reader into the fold and captures them with riveting narration, stellar legal description, and a set of characters whose perfection within the story has them fit like the proverbial glove.
Surely some steps have been made in this regard, but I would venture to say that the two novels, which act as strong social commentaries, are not far off from what is still going on.Kudos, Mr. Grisham, for allowing me such a raw glimpse into the realm of justice in the South and not candy coating it in the least.
En este libro John Grisham nos demuestra que no es necesario y nos muestra un thriller judicial con un caso bastante simple el cual es resuelto de forma bastante impresionante.Déjenme que les hable un poco del argumento principal de esta historia para que puedan entenderme.
El libro juega constantemente con este dilema alagando un trasfondo explícitamente racista dejando claro la mayoría los personajes que si hubiese sido un padre blanco vengando a su hija violada por unos negros no hubiese sido condenado sino mas bien hubiese sido condecorado por el alcalde de la ciudad.
You can't help but feel the justice in a man taking the law into his own hands...
because the law has failed him.
you have to question the sanctity of the law and what you're willing to put your faith in.
It brings up the issues of right and wrong in a way that's almost horrifying in its use of grey area.And it's got one of my favorite parts that I've ever read in any book anywhere, that sticks with me years later...
now what if they were both white men?"This book changed the way I look at the world, with that one simple sentence.
3.5 stars I enjoyed this but it didn’t entertain me as much as I hoped.
What a powerful book, I can't believe I hadn't read it sooner.
I remember watching the movie for the first time when I was in my mid-teens and I remember not liking it at that time because it was hard for me to understand the court and legal system, but as I got older I watched it again and I loved it.
The book is very emotional and some parts were very disturbing and hard to read, and it's sad to say it's probably happened in real life.
An excellent book that I recommend to everyone!
I've actually never read a Grisham book before. Don't everyone throw tomatoes at me at one. Maybe the reason I haven't read one before was 'cause I was afraid I would be compelled to buy the rest of his books and I'd rather save the money for purchasing my very own movie studio.
The author is well suited to portray the South both sympathetically while at the same time never shying away from its more shameful aspects.Carl Lee Hailey's young daughter, who happens to be black, is brutally raped and left for dead by two savage thugs, who happen to be white.
The thugs meet their maker after Carl Lee goes all Mississippi justice on their hind ends in the middle of the courthouse right after an arraignment.
The story proceeds effortlessly: serve, bump, set, spike.Once again, politically correct types bemoan the realities of the South, including "excessive use of the 'N' word" in this book.
The way the drama is presented is thrilling and at many points throughout my experience of this book I felt my heart stop and skip a beat.The story itself follows the talented and dedicated street lawyer Jake battle out a court case against an intimidating private law firm.Jakes client, a loving father, has without a doubt commited a revenge murder of two drug dealing "rednecks" who brutally raped his daughter.Jake must fight for a black mans freedom in a oppressive racist county, the fate of his client is almost pre decided as Jake enters this legal war.
He acts out at everyone, is often rude, and is an over all narcissist - And this is supposed to be our "Hero".John Grisham is very transparent with his characters, making the "good-guys" attractive, and the obnoxious people fat, awkward, or old.
We get a sense that the author wants to make certain people unlikable, like Jake's secretary Ethel, but he fails to give them any unlikeable attributes, except being old, awkward, or fat.My other gripe is that the only "strong" female character in the book is a perfect-in-every-way sub-human creature that, I am convinced, John Grisham probably created in a wet dream.
I have always had mixed feelings about Grisham, but this is one of his best. The inherent drama of a death penalty story, with a background in the crime of rape, makes this a natural for an audiobook, where the high drama can really be brought out.
This theme is evident during the protests related to the trial, when the KKK is brought back into Clanton, when the NAACP tried to get involved in the trial, and in the trial itself when the question is presented, would he be treated the same if he was white and killed two black men who raped his daughter?
This theme is clear when Carl Lee Hailey kills the two men who raped his daughter, despite it being very illegal because he cannot live knowing his daughter’s rapists are still alive, and that she would have to live knowing they were alive.
