https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20877339-the-dunwich-horror
A Lovecrafty BR with my great GR friend Craig. Viva la Cthulhu and his kin 💜💜💜💜What a nice read with monsters! :) I liked this story a lot, the pace was quicker, the writing more engaging, the info about the main plotline - gripping . Dark family secrets, creepy cult, monsters, MONSTERS, suspense, ancient mystery, juicy fighting, other universes. Omg, the only flaw is that this story is too short! Btw, there are some movies! :) http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0065669/http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1226752/http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1733465/
By establishing the elements of the world so clearly at the start of the story, Lovecraft grounds this particular tale within a localized environment that feels aged and real.
It provides an important balance to the latter half of the story, as the usual cosmic horror elements are introduced and evil makes itself apparent.
Familiarizing myself with Lovecraft is sort of great fun, because in a lot of ways I can pick out the influence his writing has had on some of my favorite horror media today.
This time, more than fifty years after my first reading of “The Dunwich Horror,” I marveled at the skill with which Lovecraft manipulated the tired tropes of the boy’s adventure tale, making the fatherless boy Wilbur himself the first sign of horror, and using the last exciting chase to eradicate the even greater horror the boy wished to manifest.
“The Dunwich Horror” isn’t—as I formerly believed--a good horror story marred with a corny ending, No, it is somthing stranger: a boy’s adventure gone mad, a tale that takes the fantasy of marvelous parentage, turns it upside down, and crushes it before your eyes.
The only thing I was afraid of was that the shitty-shitty-SHITTY prose might make me vomit.
Now that it’s fall time, it’s Lovecraft time!I am not necessarily a major horror fan but I have a fascination for the weird; for the munching, crunching things in the walls; the squirming, slithering things that slink in the dark pools of the mind.
Things that defy reality and exist even though they shouldn’t and even if they only lurk in the imagination.With that said about me, I thought The Dunwich Horror was fabulous!
I feel like I’ve only dipped my toes into the Lovecraft pool of cosmic weirdness and I can’t wait for more!
One of Lovecraft's greatest.A slow, insidious horror story covering the life of a demonic and hyper intelligent child.
This is one of the mythos tales done very right, with great atmosphere and the unnerving feeling that something is simply 'wrong'.
You're not quite sure what, you're not truly sure why, there's just this uncomfortable, slowly creeping sensation that something larger, more threatening and important than a supernaturally fast growing, psychotic child is at play.
The minimal but vivid use of body horror is perfect and the end reveal is genuinely unsettling.Gold star, Lovecraft, even if you are a distinctly classist bastard here.
The reader gets a better sense of involvement than in Call of Cthulhu: both are written in an investigative journalism style (forgiving the dense gothic prose HP loved so well), but whereas Cthulhu leaves the reader feeling far removed from the events described, Dunwich somehow manages to feel more like an event in progress, and feels more intense as a result.
Many of HP's "big reveals" are telegraphed pages in advance like always, but the overall experience is a great one and leaves you with a broad collection of unsettling images and ideas.
Great spooky fun, and definitely worth reading more than once.
I couldn’t stop reading it! It was a very good story with a lot of suspense and psychological horror.
It is always a relief to get clear of the place, and to follow the narrow road around the base of the hills and across the level country beyond till it rejoins the Aylesbury pike. Afterward one sometimes learns that one has been through Dunwich.I'm a bit torn on this one. The first sections are interminably long and full of everything Lovecraft does that annoys me. The last few sections are actually quite entertaining. Can't really skip the first part and expect to enjoy the last part though. Two stars.
One of his earliest and best.
Even the racism is reduced to disdain for rural folk.
Of the ones I'd read before, this one I remembered best because it has an actual plot all throughout.
It's also unique in that here, the humans not only find hope but win, if temporarily.
That's not to say that Yog-Sothoth, the Old One of the story, has any ethical binary but the humans do.
I don't think it destroys Lovecraft's theme of moral nihilism and cosmic horror, it only makes sense that humans might occasionally fit that mold and even win.
Read on Serial ReaderI enjoyed this more than other Lovecraft stories I have read recently.
Also, the mocking they endured from the local town when they reported problems--after being looked down on for years/decades because something was "off".Though I don't much enjoy Lovecraft (I really prefer Poe), I do think his work would be great for middle schoolers.
The reading level is fine, and I think they are young enough to find his ideas extra creepy.
Kind of how Poe gave me nightmares at that age.
The Horror itself was interesting, though the relating of its story was meh. Occasionally engaging, but mostly boring. As usual with Lovecraft, the mythos he creates is astounding. But you must suffer through the telling to get at it. And at no point will you be afraid. I enjoyed the addition of more phonetic speech for the characters. It added realism and variety.
One of the absolute best Lovecraft stories, I’m surprised it isn’t higher rated.
The horror of the monster is especially strong since it takes place in a murky countryside where no one has access to education and technology.
The lack of understanding and the lack of what the people there have access to as a means to fight back intensify the feelings of mystery and hopelessness in the face of a wicked creature.
The final chapter is especially grotesque, the description of the many opening and closing eyes, stretched out faces and slimy tentacles of the amorphous abomination makes your stomach turn.
Finished this baby in the bathroom at work, as all Lovecraft should be read.
It's difficult pushing through the first half of the book but gets quite interesting pretty soon.
За півтори милі від Данвіча живе чаклун Старий Вейтлі, його схиблена дочка Лавінія і її смаглявий козломордий син Вілбур.(view spoiler)[Ніхто не знає, хто був батьком Вілбура.
Тільки Старий Вейтлі зізнався одного разу, що колись всі почують, як його онук буде кликати свого батька за іменем із вершини пагорба.
По-друге, в будинку час від часу проводять ремонт, прибираючи перегородки і внутрішні стіни, допоки не залишаються тільки зовнішні.
Та вже пізно: з оболонки, на яку останнім часом перетворилася ферма Вейтлі, виривається місяць негодований монстр, невидимий для людського ока, що стає благословеням для психіки мешканців глибинки, які, і не бачачи його образу, очікують найгірше.
Among the denizens of this strange little settlement is an old family named the Whateleys.
Old Man Whateley, and his pale, albino counterpart, give birth to a child under strange means.
Wilbur and the old man had brought something through to the physical world from the timeless voids outside the universe, and it’s connection to the Outer God “Yog-Sothoth” only increases it tenebrous nature.
This book is a central motif in many Lovecraft stories, and it is the most present object that binds all his stories to together into the mythos(the “Yog-Sothary”).
In this case the book is used both by WIlbur and Henry Armitage for research purposes.
*Just notes to myself*Wasn't my thing.So far it feels like a more poetic Bram Stoker."It is vowed that the birds are phsychopomps lying in wait for the soulds of the dying, and that they time their eerie cries in unison with the sufferer's struggling breath.
On his deathbed, Old Whately tells his grandson to make more space in the house and to read from pg 751 and light a match "to the prison."Wilbur might've killed his mother, or sacrificed her to the monster he's growing.He makes the space inside his house larger in order to make room for the growing beast he and his grandfather made.He tries to steal the book he needs in order to do the spell to "open the door" but get killed by the guard dog and melts away.Wilbur has scaly skin like a snack, tentacles coming from his abdomen, and below his waist covered in thick black fur.
Well-crafted tale, with the usual Lovecraft caveats (rural people degenerate, apparently, until they no longer count as human, even if they don't mate with elder gods).
I read this after reading an alternate version casting Armitage as a villain.
The original interpretation has the happier ending, notably.Oddly I found myself wondering if this story was in any way foundational to Pete's Dragon.
I mean, giant invisible creature stomping through town, wreaking havoc?
Tone it down a notch or 20 to a kid's companion, and you get Pete's Dragon.
does that make Pete Wilbur?

Essential Lovercraft, but unlike excruciating "At the Mountains of Madness", this one actually has a plot and it doesn't shy away to describe every morbid detail. Still, it suffers from constant description of fear and shock that protagonists are supposedly facing. As a result, writer's intention to shock is limited to its characters, failing to reach the reader. None the less, brief description of gothic New England bloodlines and the library scene are alone worthy of every minute. The latter is probably one of the key motifs for future Kings and Bakers or Carpenters and Cronenbergs.
Note this is a review only of the Dunwich Horror, I haven't read the rest in this collection (I've been reading them all off the wonderful HPLovecraft.com, which has the pdfs for them all for free).The Dunwich Horror is pretty ok.
Lovecraft is not known for his dialogue, and the Dunwich Horror is unfortunately full of it.
It is an interesting enough story to pull you along pretty quickly though, and I was genuinely curious to see how it resolved.
Not as good as some of his other novellas (I'm still waiting to find a work of his I like as much as The Mountains of Madness).
Me encantó toda la historia. Ese "prólogo del horror de Dunwich" que es la mitad de la historia, es fantástico. H. P. Lovecraft mezcla de una manera espectacular la brujería con los misterios extraterrestres, cde una manera en que Yog- Sothoth es un antiguo demonio que puede ser conjurado. En resumen: me encantó esta historia, está muy bien narrada y tiene una muy buena mezcla entre misterio, magia y horror cósmico.
Didn't enjoy this quite as much as The Call of Cthulhu but it's still very interesting and weird. Small town with a strange boy that grows too fast and has the look of evil about him is the harbinger of even worse horrors to come. Some issues with the writing and Lovecraft's depiction of race. But overall a creepy and one thinks memorable short story.
6/10Well... this certainly was something. As far as the writing goes, it's not as stuffy as most books written around this time but it did drag on at times. I wouldn't consider this a horror story nowadays, but I imagined this scared the heebie jeebies out of the poor God Fearing Christians of the early 20th century.
"Iä! Shub-Niggurath! As a foulness shall ye know Them. Their hand is at your throats, yet ye see Them not..."The terrifying world Lovecraft creates in this story is sublime, yet the plot itself fairly conventional and predictable. Still highly enjoyable, but it takes away much of the terror.I'm really starting to enjoy this man's world-building though.
I enjoyed this, but it wasn't as thrilling or scary as I had expected for my first Lovecraft story. Even though it was a short story, I wish there had been more a little backstory. It was a fun read all the same!
Holy cow...that was amazing!!! Disgusting, gross, shocking, it pulls you in and doesn't let go. Pardon me for being offensive here but Stephen King can suck it. Nothing and no one will ever top H.P. Lovecraft. Don't even try.
I am trying to make a more concerted effort to read things outside my comfort zone, so this is my first time reading Lovecraft. Overall reaction: Meh. Though it is a short story, the first half of Dunwich seems to drag on endlessly. The second half I enjoyed more.
I never tire of reading H.P. Lovecraft. His descriptions are fantastic and his influence can be seen in King and Gaiman novels. Hellboy owes a lot to the Lovecraft Cthulhu mythos. Can’t praise Lovecraft enough!
