https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121313.West_of_the_Pecos
The Texas landscapes and harsh living conditions back then were very well portrayed. Tried, true and Texan to the core sums up the people who worked hard and triumphed. The rotters are basically the same no matter where you live, dang their dark hearts anyway.
Once I got past that though I was totally captivated by the story and cowboy language.
It is the story of Terrill Lambert, a young girl who disguises herself as a boy, at first to please her father's dream for a son and second to protect herself in wild west Texas when her father is murdered.
Her path crosses with Pecos Smith, one of my all time favorite cowboys/vaqueros, who has to save her from the local bad hombres This is the quintessential western: buffalo stampede, rustlers, wagon ambushes, cattle drives, gun slinging, cowboy romance.
Los protagonistas son rudos y bastante poco cultos, pero nobles y trabajadores, con una religiosidad que me ha sorprendido no por lo habitual pero sí por lo sincera: como cuando Pecos se maravilla de que Dios haya sido "tan bueno" con él, recordando entonces las plegarias de su madre.
Sin embargo, hacia el final del libro el autor los humaniza más, cuando los protagonistas tienen un enfrentamiento con ellos, y Terrill puede ver que los pobres kiowas "están en los huesos".En resumen, una novela de aventuras entretenida, que se lee rápido y deja buen sabor de boca.
One of my favorite Zane Grey books - I absolutely loved his books as a kid! Reading his books led me to fall in love with the American Southwest.
This story is about a girl of 15 who dresses as a boy and travels west from Louisiana with her father and a married black couple.
They have a guide to take them to a good place west of the Pecos and finally arrive many months later.
When Pecos Smith meets them again a few years later, they are at the same ranch but her father has been killed by rustlers.
She is still passing as a boy but during all their trials Pecos accidentally discovers that she is a girl; he keeps her secret.
Lectura entretenida y muy ligera. Hay que tener en cuenta la época en la que fue escrito pero tiene unos personajes y unas tramas taannn inocentes que te saca una sonrisa :-)
GreatExcellent writing and adventure. Interesting from page one to the end. Never knowing what will happen next. Have to keep reading to find out.
I actually read my Great-Grandfather's copy, which has a copyright of 1937 on it, published by Grosset and Dunlap and not dated.Modern readers may take offense at the stereotypes and use of racial and ethnic epithets which permeate the story, but as I considered it, this may well have been the way the rough society of the period functioned.The story itself is about what is left of the Lambeth family, Father and Daughter and a pair of their former slaves heading west to make a new life.
This book is an example of the typical Zane Grey book. A cowboy named Pecos Smith has a mysterious past and he comes into contact with a damsal in distress. The adventure of coming west to start a new life, conflicts with outlaws and eventually succeeding is told in Zane Grey's descriptive style. The description of being caught in a buffalo stampede is well worth the read. You can almost feel the thundering stampede as you read.
Templeton Lambeth heads west with his daughter Terrill following the Civil War. When Templeton is murdered Terrill is left to fend for herself until desperado Pecos Smith crosses her path. A romantic western of the early 20th century.
Fun but for its cringe-worthy overt racism
Thought I'd try a Zane Grey. It was fine, maybe not my style.
Really good, surprisingly literate tale of the Old West. Actually very enjoyable.
I loved this book as a child and for nostalgic reasons I give it many stars. I loved the film with Robert Mitchum as a child also.
