https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136814.Walking_on_Water
She defends "art" as something just as vital or more so than science (while simultaneously emphasizing the glorious art and truth of science), she points out the differences between fact and truth, she talks about the artist's experience of losing control of both oneself and one's story, including the (oh so familiar!) disconcerting sensation of having the characters take over and do something wholly unplanned and incontrovertible.She also challenges both artists of all varieties and the complacent Christian community in fulfilling our roles as co-creators in the image of God, honoring truth and story, and allowing ourselves to serve the story.I found myself pausing at periods to ruminate on what I'd just read, and I suspect I'll be buying a copy of this to keep for myself.
I remember the first time I read Walking on Water, Reflections on Faith and Art. It was an eye-opener for me – and a book I became completely absorbed in.
Getting out of the way and listening is not something that comes easily, either in art or in prayer.’ These words are worth thinking seriously about.As in any Madeleine L’Engle book I find there are lines that will challenge thinking and some aspects I will disagree with.
I am reminded that we live mostly on the tip of the iceberg while the larger part of ourselves, of life, the part we cannot really control, lies below the surface -- and when we listen, when we let go of fear of the unknown, we find ourselves, we find true freedom.
We are more than we know.And this is how I want to live, how I want to write -- in truth, and hearing that roar on the other side of silence.Read it.
I loved this book so much that I want to reread it till I have it memorized and it has been etched on my soul.I almost can't even review this because it struck me on such a deep level that it feels too personal to talk about why this book impacted me the way it did. Struggles and doubts that I have had suddenly took on new light when she talked about her path. Basically, any review that I give this will be inadequate for how it made me feel.
It is not a perfect book and I certainly don't agree with everything but oh it is wonderful. Such insight and presence and goodness. Thank you L'Engle for this book. My mind and heart are larger for reading it. My ears more open. Familiarity to some of her fiction will help but is not mandatory, however regardless if you read this you should read Wrinkle simply because it is A Wrinkle in Time and that book in itself is close to the heart of life and God.
Madeleine's book is full of food for inspiration, moments that resonate, and encouragement for Christian artists.
Madeleine told herself stories to heal the pain of things she did not understand.
She takes what the book needs and learns it.In chapter 11, Madeleine told several anecdotes about unexpected characters that popped onto her page and made her work so much more vibrant and complete than her original idea without them.
I have happy first-hand accounts in my own stories of those things happening without my prior planning.Walking on Water will give you much to ponder about Christian art.
It was repetitive if you've read other books by L'Engle, and the points she makes about art and artists are interesting but not particularly enlightening.
My favorite thing about the book is that I identified with a few passages as a writer.
Usually, L'Engle's books leave me with much more than this one did.
My dad said, "It's Madeleine--it wasn't bad." I agree, but it wasn't good either.If you're looking for a book about advice for writers, this is not that book.
Otherwise, I would read almost any of L'Engle's nonfiction books over this one, especially The Crosswicks Journals.
This book is an intuitive artist’s dream. Incredibly beautiful, insightful, and inspiring. I listened to it on audio and before I was even halfway done, I ordered a hardcover so I could re-read it and underline it liberally.
I'm the latter.It isn't a bad book by any means, and it's good to see L'Engle engage faith, albeit elliptically.
But this isn't a work really for those of us who want nuts and bolts; it's feeling, sentiment, and poetry, and for people who enjoy such, it's fine at doing that.I tend to not connect with L'Engle, but this book, like all her rest, seem tailor made for sensitive, intelligent young women with a religious, non-dogmatic bent, and you'll probably enjoy it far better if you are one.
This book is one of the best I've read for artists who also happen to have a strong religious faith.
What I respected most was her assertion that art designed to evangelize tends to be come across as forced, and is often lower quality because of this.The book is also filled with some great concepts for helping the artist to reconnect or remain connected to creativity.
Well worth the read for those interested in becoming the person you were created to be, rather than the one that the Church tells you to be.

I've read at least one book by Madeleine L'Engle every decade of my life, starting with _A Wrinkle in Time_ when I was a child. Madeleine's theology does not always match my own, but I deeply respect her thoughtfulness and depth. This book is about the arts. I love that Madeleine does not encourage Christians to stay with "safe" art (Thomas Kinkade comes to mind). Truth can be captured by some very unlikely artists and humanity is the richer for it. Come to think of it, I believe Madeleine L'Engle has earned a place in that club! Highly recommended.
Is there a 5 star plus I can offer for a review? I ask, because this is the one book to warrant it. Ms. L'Engle beautifully presents several arguments for re-uniting the theological with the artistic, and how an artist (writer, performer, dancer, etc.) can not only bridge the gap between the two, but also clearly defines the reasons why one must. The quotes and arguments are simply stated, and honestly reasoned. This is the book I read when I question whether the pain is worth the thunder, and always, always find the answer is yes.
A friend, who is an artist and Christian, loaned me her copy of this book because she though I would enjoy it.
A Wrinkle in Time was one of the first books I remember reading as a kid, one of the first books I truly loved.
So all in all, I am very glad I read this, and very glad I bought my own copy.
I have a feeling it's something I'll turn to many times in my life as I follow my artistic journey.My WebsiteFind me on FacebookMy YA fantasy series:book 1
This author had many valid points and able to reflect on Christianity and art. I loved some of the statements in the book as an artists/creativity with writing."If a reader cannot create a book along with the writer, the book will never come to life. He must become a creator, imagining the setting of the story, visualizing the characters, seeing facial expressions, hearing the inflection of voices. The author and the reader "know" each other; they meet on the bridge of words (L'Engle, Madeline,
I loved some of the statements in the book as an artists/creativity with writing.‎"If a reader cannot create a book along with the writer, the book will never come to life.
143)."Now I truly understand why I have those restless, insomnia nights when YHWH calls me to write or a story lives in my dreams/visions and need to be released on paper (manuscript).
Thank you Madeleine for helping me understand the gift of a creative soul as a lyrical-miracle artist (writer, poet/past rapper, past artists, actress, etc.)*Father gave me this book as a gift (he read it first I'm quite sure and sent it to me, signed in love).
Madeleine L'Engle writes about her art and the art of being a "Christian" writer.
I took my 4th-8th grade students to hear her speak in 1988 (St. Andrews Episcopal School) and have been a life-long fan.
She was forceful, opinionated, not patient with these kids and absolutely compelling.It was interesting to read that she kept working notebooks of quotes from authors, words, ideas, etc., and revisted them frequently.
The pleasure of this book is not just L'Engle's style, which is warm and inviting.
The ideas here are big.
In the past, creativity may have been easily dismissed, or thought of as something I do when I have time.
This book challenges me and this notion.
This book, along with "Imagine: A Vision for Christians in the Arts", answers many of the questions and struggles that I have had as an 'artist' who became a Christian.
This book is *double bonus awesome* if, besides being a writer, you are a woman or in theater.
A fascinating and thought provoking read. Even when I disagreed with her conclusions, like when she talks about gendered language, her questions and observations are usually on point and worth mulling over. This is a book designed to stretch the mind with thoughts on the creative process, what that has to do with faith, and a vocabulary that will knock you off your feet (proving her point on the dangers of a shallow vocabulary). I loved her thesis: bad art means bad religion. And I loved the insights on her writing process.
I found myself underlining and bracketing paragraphs, making notes in the margins in the first half of the book. As the book went on, I felt that, though there are nuggets of wisdom tucked into the pages, L'Engle's style leaned toward the meandering. She didn't ramble, it was just that the stories and anecdotes she used to illustrate her points tended to be on the lengthy side, and I felt it was a circuitous journey to her main point at times. I confess to skimming some later chapters, but it's overall a worthwhile read.
This book was a slow simmer for me, and has nurtured and encouraged my soul, watering places I didn't even know we're thirsty. Ms. L'Engle insightfully asks the hard questions about who we are, why we must create, and how to submit to the work given us. Deep, life-giving words here, recommended to all, not just artistic types!
I spend a lot of time thinking about how I arrived at writing novels for the Christian market. I contemplate often what it means to be a Christian and a writer and how those two parts of me collide. Walking on Water helped me process a lot of those wonderings. I'm inspired.
This book made me cry.
(Most things do these days, but still.) As someone who doesn't necessarily identify primarily as an artist, it was deeply relevant to me; one of the most profound yet simple unfoldings I've ever read of what it means to be a Christian in a dark, broken, confusing, and yet somehow still beautiful world.
Vulnerability, doubt, pain - and joy & trust in our Father through it all.
Read it.
You won't be sorry."I have to try, but I do not have to succeed.
Following Christ has nothing to do with success as the world sees success.
And Naming is one of the impulses behind all art; to give a name to the cosmos we see despite all the chaos" (46)."There is nothing so secular that it cannot be sacred, and that is one of the deepest messages of the Incarnation" (50)."And as Christians we are not meant to be less human than other people, but more human, just as Jesus of Nazareth was more human" (59)."The artist must be open to the wider truths, the shadow side, the strange worlds beyond time" (80).“The painters and writers who see the abuse and misuse of freedom and cry out for justice for the helpless poor, the defenseless old, give me more hope; as long as anybody cares, all is not lost.
Reading L'Engle's "Walking on Water: Reflections on Faith and Art" hit home to some of the more intimate parts of my personality and my creativity.
Although L'Engle's religious beliefs and mine differ significantly in certain areas, I could relate to the sanctity of art and of its importance in the world around us.
(Even more so with the most recent attacks in Paris, Beirut and Kenya.)Written in 1980, there's a certain charm in reading L'Engle write about her typewriter and the work that she does and how she sees the world.
An excellent book to the very end. I really like how the author emphasis that an artist must do the work, to trust and let go of the need to control. This is a book that I would like to own and refer to often. So much I can relate to especially the difficulty of the work, the vulnerability of being a creative.
We learn to appreciate the art of the world around us and to care for its artists, whether or not they are believers.
and story.Best of all, from my point of view, the author reminds readers that faith invites questions and should never fear them or else it's not quite faith.
When my books were being rejected during the fifties it was not because of my sex, it was because the editors did not like what I was writing.What, I ask you, does the mention of the physician and daughter-in-law, followed by an observation on being "fortunate", have to do with the rest of the paragraph?
Paragraph to paragraph, sentence to sentence, she chooses to say what happens to come to mind; thankfully, what happens to come is continually brilliant, provocative, inspiring, wise, and helpful.The last three chapters fall into a more orderly and deliberate flow, and these are particularly illuminating and enjoyable because they explain both the background to the writing of many of her books and also the creative and spiritual implications of those backgrounds.
Madeliene L'Engle (who I've read and loved so much now that I feel like she's a friend, I want to meet her in heaven) has a beautifully rambly, conversational approach in this book, and because of it so much of who she is surfaces.
She talks about her writing--as well as the work of composers, painters, dancers, and all artists--as an act of giving birth, being willing to do the work to communicate and give flesh to something outside yourself that wants to be expressed, to be told, to be given to the world.
Reading books about faith is always a little hard as it was something I did when I was younger and little insane.
A friend recommended this to me years ago now and it (much like Mere Christianity which I still haven't finished) took me probably a year to read as I would pick it up and put it down and pick it up again.
It was the feeling that all the things I'd thought about art, about beauty, about what it means to create and where does that creation come from weren't solitary to myself alone.
(Though writing certainly feels like it sometimes.)She had so many interesting things to say.
This book changed the way I view myself as a writer, and strengthened my commitment to the practice of art.
In this book, L'Engle offers meditations on what it takes to create art.
First, she talks about writing as obedience and about being a servant to the art.
She believes all great works of art are divinely inspired, and it is our job to have a daily practice in order to hear that divine inspiration.
Second, she talks about writing for children.
Finally, she talks about finding time to write.
She says that as mothers, it is difficult to find time to write, and we need to be pigheaded about it.
