https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107786.Guardian_Angel
IF I COULD GIVE THIS BOOK 6 STARS I WOULD.
To be honest, I'm really not in the mood to write a full-length review but I have to say this is one of my FAVORITE Julie Garwood books.
I loved EVERYTHING about this enchanting and delightful story.
This is a book I will read (or listen to) again and again.
Julie Garwood's books are like comfort foods for me.
I also found there is a plus side to a slight "breathy" narration...the love scenes sound very...um...authentic.
Imagine Caine's surprise when Lady Jade, a young beautiful woman who's clearly out of place in the disreputable bar, approaches him one night and, believing he's Pagan, hires him to kill her!
In truth, it isn't Jade's life that's in danger, it's Caine's - but she can't say anything to him, so she lets him think he is her guardian angel when, in fact, she is his guardian angel.
Caine knows Jade's lying to him but he doesn't understand why or what she's hiding, and every attempt he makes at extracting the truth out of her only makes him (and me) more confused.
2.5 stars What can I say I found the entire story a little too: Everyone is either roaring, bellowing or wailing through most of the story. There is no middle ground between those three. I'm surprised no one's head fell off from all the 'crystal-shaking' & 'wall trembling' tantrums. RME. The constant quick jumps from different range of emotions is really hard to follow and so hammy. It doesn't translate well. One minute a person is bellowing their demand the next line they are smiling tender
The constant quick jumps from different range of emotions is really hard to follow and so hammy.
And Garwood seriously couldn't find another word to express anguish with Jade besides wailing?
I had a hard time buying the heroine Jade as a sea-surfing pillaging pirate.
Besides picking locks, this girl came across like a sheltered haughty naive 15 year old who was very quick to take offense.
She's huffy and demands an apology for every single thing through the entire story.
"I will have those letters, Jade.
In years to come, the world will realize what my Tribunal was able to accomplish.
Another slow reading week but I really enjoyed the little moments of escape I found in these pages. There is really such awesome balance between romance, mystery, humor and suspense in Julie Garwood novels. This hero stole my heart with every I Love You. He never wavered and was so unapologetic and unashamed about his feelings. Caine and Jade will always be a favorite.
Definitely on the re-read list.This story follows Caine on his quest to capture the infamous pirate Pagan.
He finds love unexpectedly in the form of a damsel in distress - Jade.Caine is a former spy, his gift is hunting.
Misfortune follows Jade everywhere and Caine takes her under his wing.
Lyon helped Caine when they got caught in a murky msytery and offers a safe house for Jade.This book also highlights how coping mechanisms differ from person to person.
“Good God, man, I could have killed you.” Caine was just as furious with her.
I felt like Caine is for Jade only some pawn in the game she plays.But the real problem was that I absolutely hated Jade, the heroine.
I know the plot is that it's all a part of some strange shame to annoy Caine but what is the point in annoying a reader, too?
Giving up a book at 10% is not something I would be okay with, so I forced myself to carry on.
I could have probably force myself to read the whole book, I just saw no point in doing so.
That why I'm giving very weak 2 stars (1 star is for books I really hate).
(If it isn’t, then I seriously forgot all of the plotting and characters!)Although I wouldn’t rank this one as high as some of her other historcials, I did enjoy it despite it’s flaws- mostly because of the eccentric characters that populated the story.GA is the followup to another of hers, The Lyon's Lady, and one that felt like was meant to be a part of a series.
(Misguided, but noble.)Don’t mistake this for a typical bodice ripping pirate romance novel however, it’s all about the political intrigue behind their deceptions and- innate to all Garwood’s historicals- the characters.
Çünkü ben Julie Garwood, Judith Mcnaught manyağı biriyim ama bu kitabın GARWOOD beklentilerimi karşılayan bir kitap olması imkansız.
Evet kitap güzel, her Garwood kitabında olduğu gibi, klasik historical çizgisinden biraz taşıyor, normalde ben bunu çok seviyorum, eğleniyorum da okurken.
Ama bu sefer konuda olmasa da anlatımda gerçekten sevmediğim noktalar vardı.Mesela karakterlerin birbirleri için önemli hale gelme süreleri gerçekten çok kısa.
Yani aşırı kısa.
Çooook aşırı kısa sürede.
Yani bir konuyu açıkladın, şaşırdılar, sonra aynı şeyi ilk defa anlattırıyormuş gibi sorgulayıp yine şaşırıyorlar.
NEDEN?Aslında konusu ve yazarı itibariyle, çok güzel tabanı olan bir şey birazcık heba edilmiş gibi geldi.
Loved this one! Jade was funny and brave. Caine was an awesome hero. Totally loved Jade.
I've been professing my love for Julie Garwood's historical romances for years.
I absolutely loved listening to the audiobook of Guardian Angel by Julie Garwood.Guardian Angel is a  Regency set historical romance, but it isn't exactly your typical Regency novel.
The whole situation is typical Julie-Garwood hilarious!Reading about Caine and Jade's interactions are so much fun.
Although she has an odd loud whispery bit to her voice, I do really like Susan Duerden's narration.
Basically, if you are wanting to read some fun, Regency historical romance, don't pass by Guardian Angel by Julie Garwood.This review was originally posted on Quinn's Book Nook
Yazarı sevdiğim için midir bilmiyorum ama serinin ilk kitabı kadar güzeldi bence. :)İlk kitap kadar eğlenceliydi. :DBir de şeyi farkettim.Öncekinde de,bu kitapda da sevdiğini söyleyen ilk kişi erkek karakterlerdi. :DTabi kitabımın arasında boş sayfalar görmeseydim daha güzel olacaktı. :(
More like 3.5 stars....I'm conflicted with this one...There are parts that I really didn't like but thankfully most parts are likable. :) I can't also say that I like the MCs though they seem to be badasses...there are pirates for God's sake.
From the opening pages, this novel is rife with hilarity and adventure.Caine: I met him in The Lyon's Lady, the first in Garwood's Crown Spies series.
Caine and Jade have the most ridiculous romance ever.
Caine finds Jade outrageous and impossible, her illogical logic amazes him and makes him furious too.
Caine gets crazy if anyone hurts someone he loves, which is partly why I think he and Jade meet.
He was a bit over the top sometimes, with all the yelling and demands, but then, so was Jade.Jade: I love her.
Dari segi cerita malah saya suka kok.
Tapi di buku ini yang mengganggu adalah seringnya terjadi kesalahan nama.
Saat yg dimaksud Jade, ketulisnya malah Caine.
Wkt yang dimaksud Caine, ketulisnya malah Lyon.
Sering banget salah nulis nama dan bikin saya bingung.Gak tau juga ini salah siapa.
Ato kesalahan di editor?Ato ini sebenarnya kekhilafan penerjemah yg salah paham dgn makna "he" yang dimaksud Garwood?
Tapi kalo gitu, masak iya penerjemahnya masih ketukar antara Caine dan Jade?
Kan yg satu "he" dan yg satu lagi "she".Aduh gak tau deh salah siapa.
gak mo musingin juga.Yang pasti saya terganggu banget dengan typo ini.
me quedó debiendo mucho está historia, llega un punto en donde las conversaciones se vuelven carentes de sentido y tontas, le dan mil vueltas a la misma historia. Me desesperó la actitud de Jade, uno esperaría más de alguien que haya llevado una vida semejante a la suya, es insulsa, tonta e infantil.
3.5 stars
As all the books I’ve read so far by Garwood, I was glued to the couch and couldn’t put it down.
Caine is on the hunt for the Pirate Pagan, for the supposed killing of his brother Collin, when he first meets Jade.
She looked in dire need of protection so Caine offered her his when in truth Jade was the one protecting him.
There is so much mystery to this book.
The way Jade kept confusing Caine with her lies, in order to protect him, was hilarious.
In the end the mystery unfolds and Caine finally catches his prey.
This book was good, but not great. I generally love Julie Garwood too - most of her books follow a formula: quirky heroine, protective hero. I had read   first in the series, which is Nathan's story. His sister is Jade, who is the main female character in Guardian Angel. Jade is a strong, independent woman who portrays herself purposely as a weak, crying, distraught woman to gain Caine's protection. Things are kind of convoluted at first and Jade tells Caine lots of different stories - some trut
I generally love Julie Garwood too - most of her books follow a formula: quirky heroine, protective hero.
Things are kind of convoluted at first and Jade tells Caine lots of different stories - some truth, others lies.
While there was no doubt these two were a good couple, it got annoying the way Jade kept acting like she couldn't have a relationship with Caine.
It was entertaining enough and I still plan to finish the series by reading 
. The first in the series was also good and some of the characters - Lyon and Christine - are featured here as well.

I liked this when I read it when it first came out. These books don't age well though and I think JG tries to hard to make her heroines cute and loveable. They end up annoying cutesy caricatures. Her historical research could use some help too. I like her contemporary stuff better.
Serinin ilk kitabı Kadere İnanır Mısın'ı okuyanlar bilir o kitapta kızımız yalancının önde gideniydi.
Bu kitapta da yine aynı tip bir adet kızımız var.
Açıkçası Julie'nin bu serisini sırf bu deli kızları yüzünden ayrı bir seviyorum.
Yine şahane esprilerle dolu bir kitaptı.
Ve sanirim serinin bir sonraki kitabı icinde çok güzel açık kapı bıraktı sevgili yazarımız.
Nathan'ın Kaçak gelin avını şimdiden merak etmekteyimmmm epsilon duy sesimiii^^Caine ve Jade'in inişli çıkışlı, bol atraksiyonlu, bol saçmalamacalı, bol yalan dolanlı, çatlak bir o kadar da tutkulu aşk hikayesi beni benden aldı açık net.Kadere İnanır Mısın'ı beğenenlere siddetle tavsiye ederim.
This is my first time reading/listening to this book.At first Jade is fake ditsy but she really is odd and couldn't seem to remember if she was acting or not.
I loved Christine in the Lyon's book, but this woman was irritating.
The bad people are boring.
And the pirates are irritating.
Either this book was bad or it's that time of the month.
The book was bad to me.
I'm only going to give it 2 stars and that's a first for a Julia Garwood book for me.
This really isn't my favorite of Garwood's books.
I remember reading this book a few years back when I was in highschool. Was my mum's. Saw it on the study table, picked it up and read the summary at the back. T'was about pirates and love. Pirates of the Caribbean was pretty big that time and I might have been infatuated with this cute girl. Stupid boy that I was, I decide to give to it a go. Wasn't that bad. Though, if I could do it again, I wouldn't read this. Waste of time.
Evet güzeldi , duygulu ve ince dokundurmaları ile akıp giden bir kitaptı.. Ama aralarda zaman mekan olgusu içinde kayıp yerler vardı. Okurken hopp başka bir tarafta bulabiliyorsunuz öyle ki e diğerleri ne oldu sorusunu bir kaç kere kendi kendime sordum :)))Serinin 3 ve 4. Kitabını merak ediyorum , bakalım Nathan ve Colin in hikayeleri nasıl olacak ... Bu hikayede Nathan ın evinden bahsedişi ve Jade nin kötü haberleri veriş Şekli hüzünlendireceğine beni iyi güldürdü diyebilirim :)))
I had the main twist figured out just from reading the back cover, and the mystery wasn't too hard to solve. Still, it was a merry read. I do wish Garwood wouldn't stuff her books with arguments between the H/h that make the heroine sound like she has feathers in her head, but that wasn't enough of a problem to offset the adventure and fun of the story. 3.5 stars.
2,5Resumido: él grita demasiado y ella llora bastante para ser alguien que no llora. Se me hizo largo, no sentí nada, me alegró ver a Cristina pero hasta ahí no más. Si solo me dijera que hay historia de amor entre Nathan y Colin...Definitivamente me gustan más los medievales de Garwood.
3.5 stars
lepo
Ne mogu vjerovat da sam knjizi, koju je napisala Julie Garwood, dala 2. Inače sam njezin veliki fan, ali ovom knjigom me razočarala. Sve mi se činilo prebrzo. Ti pretjerani iskazi ljubavi, pretjerana zabrinutost, pretjerana sladunjavost... Očekivala sam puno, puuuuno više. Mislim da je za loš dojam knjige kriv i sami prijevod. Čak mislim da su neke rečenice i izbačene iz izvornog oblika knjige. Postojale su riječi koje su me izrazito iznervirale, ali se nisam trudila zapamtiti ih pošto mi ova knjiga nikako neće ostati u sjećanju. Šteta.
Julie u svom stilu - love it
