https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1332755.The_Curve_of_Time
I really, really wanted to like this book more.
The title is so alluring, and the fact that it's a memoir about a widowed woman and her five children sailing alone over a series of summers in British Columbia in the late 1920s-early 1930s is fascinating.
I remember thinking halfway through the book that I only knew the names of 3 of her children.
I would have liked to get to know the author better--her life, her husband's death (he disappeared one day and their boat was found unmanned), etc.
A bit of history, a bit of philosophy, a bit of adventure.This book was highly recommended to me by a friend who has cruised the Inside Passage and explored the islets of British Columbia and Alaska for the past 15 years.
The lasting impression is the feeling of having spent time as a companion to the author and her children as they experience the adventure of travel and exploration as they cruise far from home in their small boat, in the 1930's.
Altogether this little book is a bit of history, a bit of philosophy, and a bit of adventure.
I do so wish I had written a review of this after I read it.
I loved this part about the "Little House" they lived in: "When we first lived there, the big firs and balsams grew very close to the house.
So close that they could lean across and whisper to each other at night.
Sometimes they would keep you awake and you would forget and say sharply, 'Hush, trees, go to sleep!' At first there would be an astonished silence...then a rush of low laughter...and they would whisper louder than ever, until you had to put your head under the blankets."
You do not have to be nautically inclined to appreciate the true story of M. Wylie Blanchet and how she set off every summer with her dog and her five children on a 26 foot motor boat in the 30's. This is a book I will read again and again. Her bravery and sense of adventure is completely inspiring. It reads like a diary so you truly feel like you are along for the ride!
I love this book. It has inspired me, not to sail with my kids, but to face hard times with courage and imagination.
cutesy, perhaps, though they fit in with the overall work (fairy-tale style rather than actual events).
For the most part each chapter concerns a specific location visited, or potentially dangerous situation faced on the water.
For those who like spooky tales, I found their visit to a deserted native village plenty spine-chilling.
I found the audio narration truly outstanding, one of the best fits I've run across as a veteran listener; I had to regularly remind myself that it wasn't the voice of the author herself!
A single mother with three children boating in British Columbia's Inside Passage in the 1920's and 1930's. Episodes and experiences from their travels.This little book is a microcosm-the little episodes inform us about relationships-with family, nature, technology (the boat), other people, past experience and the spiritual world. All in plain stores simply written. I can't recommend it enough.
A widow's memoir recalling summers spent sailing/cruising the saltwater byways and coastline of Vancouver with her five children, during the 1920s, exploring vacated Indian villages, running inlet rapids, scaling cliffs, living off the land and sea, encountering bears and cougars .
I wanted to jump in the boat and journey with her, but I didn't quite feel invited.
Blanchet's writing was clean and unpretentious, often philosophical and poetic, but I simply didn't feel a warm invitation.
Ah but still, a fascinating memoir.
Plus I learned a good bit about Vancouver, its native flora, fauna, and the region's history.THREE *** Adventurous and Fascinating, Historical Women of Tenacity *** STARS
She and their five children embraced the boat anyway and took to it every summer, exploring the Pacific Northwest coast alone.
Her belief in all of her kids as fully-formed people is encouraging (six-year-old Peter does a good job of steering the boat), she repairs the engine despite nil mechanical training, and only at rare times do you realize how alone she was.
Fall creeps in and calls them homeward, and the descriptions of home life are as lovely as life on the water.
And there is one very short, very beautiful passage where Blanchet, having piloted her children safely home after yet another summer, speaks of her loss.
Deb Walsh - Ladies Summer Reading Tea - exploring the coastal waters of the NW - a memoir - mother of 5, widowed in the 1920's - inspiring story of motherhood.My take - These are wonderful tales of enjoying the simple things/appreciating nature - exploring islands, beaches, winter Indian villages, meeting people who lived out in the middle of nowhere - meanwhile having amazing adventures - some scary, some simply beautiful.
This woman is an amazing writer and must have been an amazing mother - self-sufficient, intelligent, fun, etc.
Looking at my GR books tagged Canada.
Saw this one, added re-read tag.The descriptive "classic" has long contained an element of annoyance.
That's partly library employment induced, and partly my maverick genes.
Like god, classic ...
endless variations.Thinking classic, remembered, when, just a few weeks ago, chatting with one of the old timers in the library, being asked with enthusiasm if I'd ever read Blanchet.
Indeed, yes, was impressed and curious to know more about her boat life.
Will Timeless feel be there with re-read?
Is it a classic?
Likely.In my fantasy world, the coast of British Columbia is a region for decades of exploration.
The perfect summer read - especially if you live in British Columbia. Really, for me, this book is about Capi. Here is a widowed woman taking her 5 children out on a sailboat summer after summer. The stuff she is made of - I'd like some of that. And it made me realize what wonders are on my doorstep.
I selected this book because it takes place near my little corner of the world.
Written by a widow with five young children, it's a memoir of their summer travels boating around the coast of British Columbia.
She and her children seek out isolated and unusual places and encounter eccentric individuals.
With the casual ease of hind sight, she writes about her kids in perilous situations-first published in 1961, this was way before cell phones.
From today's viewpoint, she and her kids basically plunder sacred Native American burial sites.
Still, it was an interesting perspective on a time and place.
This is a volume of remembered experiences, incredible journeys the author took with her family in a small boat exploring the shores of British Columbia.
Blanchett spends little time on the domestic challenges of these adventures, instead using her narrative to record the spellbinding landscapes, the interesting people they encountered and the almost sensual experience of eating freshly caught salmon without knives and forks, the fish cooked on an open grate over a fire on a deserted beach.
An even deeper past time is provided by the towering mountains and the ever present tidal waters that affect every movement of their small boat.Even though, amazingly it seemed to me, they have no serious accidents except for one child breaking a collar bone.
“ But these are golden days, this group of six people may be dwarfed by the forces of nature, but they are still in harmony with them, and reading the book leaves a reader suspended in sunshine and shadow, water and land, tides and calm, a timeless world of nearly 90 years ago.
It is an unusual premise: a widow, five children (and sometimes a dog) on a 26 foot boat, travelling several long summers around the waters between Canada's mainland and Vancouver Island.One reviewer has commented that the book is a little impersonal - and it is: neither the personalities of the writer, or her children come through, and the actual "story" of their lives is not present.
I bought The Curve of Time while travelling by boat in the very waters Capi (M.
This is an obscure but wonderful book by a woman who, after becoming a widow in 1927, sailed the coast of British Columbia each summer with her five children in a 25-foot boat.
This is a great book for anyone interested in the regional history of the Northwest, and while the rugged beauty of British Columbia remains, you can't help but be struck by how much of an older, more traditional but enriching way of life we have lost.
An utterly fantastic read. Generally this type of journal is more a description of the places the author is visiting but through Blanchet’s inquisitive, keen, and philosophical eye it becomes so much more. It transcends both time and place and becomes a good testament on how to live in and be apart of this world. Now I wanna buy a boat and roam the Canadian waters.Side note, it also manages to create it’s own mythology which was a fantastic surprise.
Great book! Wylie Blanchet is a powerful story teller. Her passion for coastal B.C. waterways and history comes through clearly. The adventures she shared with her children were mesmerizing and sometimes thrilling. They travelled during a time when there were many risks and few ways to get help. Reading this while planning a trip to the area made it even more special.
Read this in 2007. Last year we cruised the same waters. I want to re read this incredible account of a brave, strong and adventuresome woman
this book brought me back to what i cherish in life, and inspired me to make more time for living that way.
I loved this book!
Possibly because I read it while on a boat for 8 days off the west coast of Canada in some of the same areas that Kate and her family were exploring back in the 1920’s and 30’s.
Very interesting and educational too, as Wylie Blanchet wove history into the story of her and her 5 children’s adventures exploring old Indian villages, experiences with wildlife, and dealing with all kinds of weather and other unforeseen circumstances.
I read excerpts to my grandsons while on the trip.
They enjoyed hearing some of the stories told in this book as well.
This was just the read I needed while on this trip!
What a wonderful, peaceful read! I’m not as adventurous as the author, but it sparks what spirit I do have to get out and explore.
A widow and her young children decide to spend part of the time living on a boat and going in and out among the islands and inlets of the Pacific Northwest. Adventures ensue! Great reading.
It was a special joy this time to read Wylie Blanchet's beautiful book as part of the voyage.Her book is about the more challenging sailing that she and her children did in the seas between Vancouver Island and the B.C. Coast over 75 years ago.
This is a fine book -- a testament to the integrity with which Wylie Blanchet lived her life.
"Our world then," she writes, "was both wide and narrow -- wide in the immensity of sea and mountain; narrow in that the boat was very small, and we lived .
It's an unusual story of a woman whose husband dies while out on their 25' motorboat in the 1930s, so she then takes her five kids and dog exploring on the same boat every summer for 15 years.
Her accounts of the characters she meets in remote coves are hilarious, and she tells fascinating (and sometimes a bit arrogant) stories about tribal customs, such as placing the dead in wooden boxes that hung from trees.
But I'm reading her story many decades after the fact, and envious in many ways of their adventures and the opportunities they had to explore the natural beauty of a gorgeous area.
It's beautifully written - a loosely threaded set of themed vignettes that tell of adventure and discovery along the coast that is pocketed with places to explore.
I was continuously reminded of how remote the Native American villages and logging posts were in the early part of the century, and enjoyed meeting the characters she and her family visited summer over summer, who chose to live so far 'off the grid' but yet stayed connected to varying degrees through the boat traffic that frequented the coast.
It's also a remarkable story of an independent woman and mother in the early 30s, who must have instilled a wonderful sense of adventure in her kids.
We will use this book on our boat as a travel guide, hoping to travel in some of the same Northwest waterways as Muriel and her five (!) children did aboard their 25 foot motor boat, "Caprice" 75 years ago.
The book construction is not strictly linear, as children are older or younger, all there or down to two .
which helps explain the title of the book.
Consider it mandatory reading to understand the essence of the Northwest, and as a memoir of a woman who does things her own way.
If you were widowed with five young children, of course you'd spend summers exploring the Inside Passage and the BC coast with them in a 25-foot boat.
Bears, cougars, orcas, storms, reefs, rock slides, crazy woodsmen, and unreliable food and water—what better environment to raise a child?
There are only a half-dozen black-and-white photos in the book, but from Blanchet's writing I have a better idea of the beauty of the coast than I've had from living near it for 18 years.I'm trying to think of further ways to praise this book, but I can't.
If I could, I would give this memoir both three stars and five.
How glorious and wonderful it sounds, exploring remote inlets and islands and coves by boat.
The three stars is for her voice, which was a little too quaint and precious for me at times.
This makes sense given she was writing this from a perspective of a widowed mother who home schooled her 4-5 children, but it just wasn't my cup of tea.
Still, how amazing to have been her children, with the backwaters of the Salish Sea as your summertime playground.
