https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5552.QED
Sometimes, it's too late, but that makes you do it better.
You probably imagine that this book is a physics text.
Feynman says in his introduction that his friend Alix Mautner had always wanted him to explain quantum electrodynamics to her so that she could understand it, and he'd never gotten around to doing that.
Now it was too late.
But, somehow, you can see that that only made him want to do it, not just well (he did everything well), but perfectly.
If the book was perfect, that would make up for its appearing after Alix was no longer around to read it.
I love this area of physics and I think it’s wonderful: it is called quantum electrodynamics, or QED for short. I love this book and I think it’s wonderful: it is called QED: The Strange Theory of Light and Matter, or QED for short. I feel as though I’ve been searching for this book for a long time, and now I’ve finally found it. In scarcely 150 pages, Feynman takes you inside the logic of this famously obscure subject. What was before unintelligible is breezy in Feynman’s hands. What had befor
What had before seemed impossible and bizarre of the physical world—particles behaving like waves, going back in time, eluding measurement—is, in Feynman’s presentation, just Nature being goofy.So here’s the mystery.
In his words:So this framework of amplitudes has no experimental doubt about it: you can have all the philosophical worries you want as to what the amplitudes mean (if, indeed, they mean anything at all), but because physics is an experimental science and the framework agrees with experiment, it’s good enough for us so far.So, really, there’s no way of knowing what’s going on before the particle is detected, since it is, in principle, undetectable.
Feynman goes on to explain why light appears to travel in straight lines.
(Feynman jokes about “wavicles,” a term I actually love to death, and will enthusiastically champion from now on!) We learn of the three basic actions from which all the phenomena of light and electrons arise: 1) photons rollicking about, 2) electrons rollicking about, and 3) electrons emitting or absorbing photons.
Perhaps there’s something ‘immoral’ about that, but the electron does it!” (You really have to love his sense of humor.) I’ve included some Feynman diagrams which depict this wanton immorality:The fourth and final lecture deals with some problems associated with quantum theory.
I took this photo when I was about half way through the book. It shows a picture of a CD [click to enlarge]. It's been illuminated by an ordinary office lamp and the flashlight from my camera. I knew about this "rainbow" effect for a long time, but I didn't know exactly how it is created. This book gives some answers.To write a successful book like QED (short for Quantum Electro-Dynamics) two prerequisites are required: 1) The author must know a great deal about the subject matter, and 2) He mu
For one he virtually "invented" Quantum Electro-Dynamics (and received the Nobel Prize for physics for it in 1940) and secondly you can clearly sense his deep affection for the nature of objects and processes in the realm of the very very very small things, that is the quantum world.Instead of bothering the reader with mathematical formulas like this......Feynman developed a rather ingenious way of explaining the interaction of light particles (photons) and electrons (and later other particles too) using diagrams like this:All those little arrows are of the utmost importance because they represent what is called "probability amplitudes" for an event.
Richard Feynman is definitely in the top five on my list of favorite physicists.
So when I had a stupid question about light, I figured it was high time I read his book on the subject.
My stupid question goes like this: Why is it that, when you turn off a light, the room immediately goes dark?
If light is everywhere, why is the universe so dark?Well, this book didn't really help me answer those questions.
If Feynman taught me anything here, it's that light is the honey badger of particles: it does what it wants, and leaves tiny arrows in its wake.
QED: The Strange Theory of Light and Matter is an outstanding book on a subject that is often overlooked or glossed-over in many popular physics books.
Feynman does a deep dive on Quantum Electrodynamics: a theory that deals not only with the various interactions between light and matter, but which can be applied to every area of physics with the exception of gravitation and nuclear physics.The theory of QED is fascinating, both in its explanatory power and its elegance.
QED is an absolute must-read for anyone with an interest in physics.
Richard Feynman's friend Alix had asked him to explain Quantum Electrodynamics (the titular QED) to her in a way a layman could understand many times.
Heartbreakingly, it wasn't until her death that he actually found the time to write a series of four lectures that would do just that.
This book is a (slightly edited) transcript of those four lectures.Feynman writes for the layman without ever being condescending and his famous sense of humour shines through.
I've studied much of the content before in physics classes and other books but Feynman has made me look at it in a different way.
Développée au cours du siècle précédent, elle se fonde sur des principes qui brusquent le sens commun, comme la dualité onde-corpuscule ou le principe de superposition, car il n'est plus possible de s'aider d'analogies à partir de notre expérience pour en rendre compte sans prendre le risque de commettre des erreurs, et seul la maîtrise de l'outil mathématique en rend compte fidèlement.
La durée nécessairement limitée des exposés dont ces textes sont la transcriptions ne permettent pas d'en éclairer toutes les subtilités.L'humour et la modestie avec laquelle l'auteur traite le sujet rend la lecture agréable, mais il me semble qu'en dépit des immenses efforts déployés par l'auteur pour rendre son sujet accessible, l'essentiel restera obscur pour le plus grand nombre, à moins de nourrir un intérêt particulièrement fort pour le sujet.
With my limited physics background, I found the explanations super clear, at least in the beginning.Some of my favorite parts: I learned that light doesn't always travel in a straight line or at the speed of light, but I also learned why paths where it doesn't won't be observed at macroscopic scales.
And I learned why when light reflects off or travels through a piece of glass, we can treat it as only interacting with the two surfaces of the glass, even though actually it interacts with all the electrons inside.Towards the end, the explanations became less complete and didn't make as much sense to me.
Wonderful,Feynman is a genius of popularization,without a mathematical expression has achieved the g

The introduction to the book is also worth reading by itself at the very least."I think I can safely say that nobody understands quantum mechanics."-Richard FeynmanHe was also a very funny and clever man who left behind a whole host of aphoristic gems, for instance: "A poet once said, 'The whole universe is in a glass of wine.' We will probably never know in what sense he meant it, for poets do not write to be understood.
If our small minds, for some convenience, divide this glass of wine, this universe, into parts -- physics, biology, geology, astronomy, psychology, and so on -- remember that nature does not know it!
My annoyance with his autobiographical works has kept me away from some truly gorgeous scientific writing.The thing is, I’m not sure if it is even possible to explain quantum mechanics properly without all the higher math, but if it is possible, this is likely the only proper way – with a lot of “this is how it is, and don’t ask why, because even we, physicists, do not know”, and a lot of weird and unexpected analogies, such as his substitution of “little clock hands” for the harmonic oscillator that pops up every which way in QM.
The only problem I had was that knowing the “proper” theory it took me a while to fully intuitively accept and adopt his “tiny clocks running” description and match it with the complex numbers/oscillators he is describing in this roundabout fashion.
The particle view of physics and how Richard Feynman was able to explain all of the weird ways that light behaves was a thoroughly engrossing read.
Using the simple concepts of rotation, spin, frequency, and depicting it all with some simple calculations involving arrows and simple algebra gave me a sense of awe at the simplicity of such a seemingly complicated subject.
Overall, I had to place this on my foundation list, seeing as it gives me inspiration for explaining the seemingly complicated in very simple terms that can be easily understood by many.
I remember reading this book as a physics undergrad and not quite getting it. I get more of it and have a better understanding of why parts of it are hard to get. Feynman does a great job with his deceptively simple book on something that defies our common sense. Having learned more and read more since then I understand more but there are still some deeply weird things about Quantum Electrodynamics. Recommended because Feynman is a great expositor as well as a hugely important physicist of the 20th century.
In this series of short lectures, Feynman reduces (except for gravity and radioactivity) the whole of the universe to quantum electrodynamics or QED.* QED involves the relationship between photons (light) and electrons (matter), or quantum phenomena, the interaction of which (electrons emit/give up and absorb/get photons/particles of light) creates all of the atoms and elements in the universe.
“I am not going to explain how the photons actually ‘decide’ whether to bounce back or go through [an opening]; that is not known,” he writes, and then adds, “(Probably the question has no meaning.)” Light seeks the fastest (shortest) route in its movement from A to B, but it borrows or uses paths that are adjacent.
Being the inquisitive sort, at one point he asked me if I could explain the main results of my PhD thesis to him in terms he would understand.
The more esoteric the science, the trickier it is to convey it in terms that are both accurate and interesting.
The lectures were the inaugural set in a series dedicated to Alix Mautner, an English major and long time friend of Feynman to whom the physicist had promised to explain quantum electrodynamics in terms she could understand.
Feynman introduces a few simple rules on how electrons and photons behave (which appear to be easy-to-digest analogs for vector calculus) and then off he goes, explaining the theory and how it describes an enormous amount of phenomena, such as the uncertainty principle, the how lenses and mirages physically work, how light scattering creates particles that travel backwards in time (via an antiparticle), why electrons stay in their orbits, lasers (exclusion principle).
Once he is satisfied with the level of detail he gave to explaining QED, Feynman quickly runs through the rest of the menagerie of sub atomic particles, doing little more than listing them and noting that the toolkit from QED is useful in describing the interaction of quarks and gluons.
There hasn't been anybody in the history of mankind that has summed up such a complex subject as Quantum Electrodynamics with so much enthusiasm and eloquence as Feynman.
Quantum Physics would not be NEARLY as accessible as it is today if it weren't for this man.
Einstein the prototype laid down the framework for Quantum Physics by accidentally dumping the puzzle pieces on the table, appalled with the mess he made...
Feynman the archetype cleaned it up with unyielding excitement by flipping over all the pieces.The puzzle is still far from complete, but we would be nowhere without this book (and others like it).

、Chapter 3; electrons and their interaction will be a clue to solve all the phenomena for the universe.It's the absolutely essential reading physics book for everyone .
You'd ask why?And this is the reason why I want you to read this book.Feynman starts off the these lectures as these were intended for laymen, with simple ideas and tools, only to evolve these tools as the lectures progress so he could explain difficult topics like in the chapter 3 of this book: 'Electrons and their interactions'.Only thing that was difficult to grasp was chapter 4: 'Loose ends' that discusses the theory of strong interactions that discusses about the quarks (particles that make up electrons protons, etc), gluons (particles that are exchanged between quarks).
Este libro surge de una serie de cuatro conferencias que dio Feynman en UCLA (que en inglés no se dice ucla sino u-c-l-a, iusielei, dato CPI para viajeros por tierras californianas).La electrodinámica cuántica, además de asustar con su nombre chulo y molón, es la parte de la física que se encarga de estudiar las interacciones entre la luz y la materia (o, más concretamente, entre los fotones y los electrones).
Feynman contribuyó decisivamente al desarrollo de esta teoría, motivo por el que recibió su premio Nobel de 1965.Feynman logra la hazaña de hacer algo más comprensible la mecánica cuántica a partir de unas pocas situaciones bastante simples.
This book attempts to explain to the layperson one of the fundamental forces of nature--electromagnetism--and to give us a glimpse into the ways that light and matter interact to give rise to a host of derivative (in the non-science/math sense of the term) phenomena like optics, heat transfer, electricity, magnetism, etc.While the book doesn't have the ability to make theoretical physicists out of us all, it does help the reader see the outline of the bigger picture (or should I say the infinitesimally tiny picture).
Although this was written (or rather, the lectures were given) many decades ago, it still forms the basis of our understanding of QED, and Feynman diagrams and the little arrows are still used in physics all the time.The only downside of the book is that since these were 3 lectures, they are split into 3 humungous chapters, and it would have been better to have smaller chapters.
For example, he labels Feynman as a philanderer - which was a surprise to me as I was expecting a book more about physics than the physicist.Feynman is confident and flamboyant in his style, which is easy and enjoyable to read.
The explanations for his figures are really helpful because they reiterate the main text explanations, which gives more opportunity to understand some of the crucial points.It was only in lecture 4 where he starts to try and cover the remaining 1% of physics that requires 20 times as many particles (I think that is how he expresses his aim for lecture 4), that the book becomes more like reading a physics exam guide with a little humour.Overall, Feynman has a very readable style and an amazing ability to explain complicated physics.
My biggest mistake here was reading this in small bursts.
It was helpful to have things framed in layman's terms, but I still found myself not "getting it" at times, and I think that was probably because I was only reading it in short bursts and then not taking time to make sure I went back and really understood before forging onward.
If you are on the fence about reading this, consider browsing the Wikipedia entry on quantum electrodynamics which has a short section on "Feynman's view of quantum electrodynamics." It gives a short idea of what one will find in the book.
I'm not really good when it comes to physics (I do love math), but light and lenses I have understood and enjoyed always.
Thus getting my hands on this book was wonderful!Feynman explains quantum electrodynamics very clearly with a humorous twist.
The last chapter is the only somewhat hard part, since in that one Feynman tries to explain other fields of physics and how they interact with quantum electrodynamics.
What makes it hard is that the chapter is short and just a peek.
As a whole the book was amazing and I'm happy to have understood almost all - and let's face it, it's physics!
I visited my brother a long time ago, when he was working on his Ph.D. in Physics.
He tossed a small, innocuous-looking book to me and said, "Read this - its a complete brain-f**k.
I've been hooked ever since.
QED is, by far, the best piece of non-fiction I have ever read.
It takes a long time for me to work though the concepts, and, as Feynman points out, nobody (including me) (especially me) truly understands Quantum Electrodynamics.
But to begin with adding 'damned little arrows' and take that to an all-encompassing description of atomic theory, accurate to ten decimal places, in about 120 pages, so the likes of me can follow along, is the purest of genius.
A masterpiece of popular science.
Feynman did what most authors can only dream of...
He explained extremely difficult concepts from his path integral formulation of quantum mechanics and he even made renormalization sound intuitive...
and he did it all without any equations, but without hand-waving.I feel like I really understood something...
maybe that's because I'm a physicist and I know some of these things, but nevertheless I think Feynman explained everything so clearly that a layman could understand it without any difficulties.That's what a good popular science book should be like.
Don't you want to understand how our world works?
