https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/564853.The_Great_Brain_at_the_Academy
I loved these books so much as a child. But I think this one was my favourite because of the way Tom managed to earn so much money selling candy bars. I'd recommend this series to anyone...young and old.
Also covered are Papa's warnings to Father Rodriguez about the Great Brain (via letter) and Tom's concealment of candy that he purchased on the train and intended to sell to the kids even though he knew it was against the rules.Chapter 4 deals with the routines of the academy and a light initiation of the newest children by the older boys.
He manipulates his reluctant friends into helping him with the enterprise, and manages to conceal it from the priests.Chapter 7 Tom fails to get more demerits and other boys are assigned to clean the washroom - which is key to his candy store scheme.
Tom was very dirty and the Father hated dirty kids.
Tom soon learned that if you were bad then you had to peel potatoes or clean the bathroom.
Tom hated the idea of not having candy and put his great brain to work on how to get candy into the school and sell it.Tom got into trouble and had to clean the bathrooms.
When he came back he sold all the candy to the kids and by the time school was out and he went home he had made about thirty dollars.
For some reason, my husband read very few books as a child.
So I coaxed him into reading this to me bit by bit every night.
It's one of my favorite MG books, which follows the hijinx of Tom D.
I really enjoy Tom's schemes to run a forbidden candy store, his outwitting punishments for "bad" behavior, and the way he figures out a magician's mind-reading tricks and uses it to his advantage.
This is my favorite book of the series, although I've yet to read the last Great Brain book that was published after the author's death.Always enjoy rereading this one immensely.
The absolute best of the truly outstanding eight book Great Brain series. Although Adenville is wonderful, T.D.'s adventures with a whole new cast of characters in Salt Lake City, including a group of very cagey (yet caring) priests, are even better.By the way, if you'd like to see the original cover art for this book (as well as the rest of the book's illustrations), check out www.greatbrain.weebly.com.
Among all of John D. Fitzgerald's Great Brain books, this is probably my favorite--it was the first one in the series that I read. The next book, The Great Brain Reforms, is a very close second.When I was a kid I never thought I'd be interested in a story that took place at the turn of the 20th century, but this book proved me wrong.
this book is an excellent book as the fouth book in the series. i have read it many times and certainly will again. the story line is engaging and exciting with every page. in it the great brain is away from home at a jesuit boys' school, where he finds ways to bring the boys candy and make some money--as well as eat candy--himself. truly an enjoyable book and a read-again
This particular entry in the series had special meaning. As a fellow graduate of more years of Catholic school than I can count, Tom's adventures in a Jesuit-run school for boys really make me smile. Very funny!
This one was definitely my favourite of the series. I don't even know how many times I checked this out from my local library as a child, it was delah.
All of the Great Brain books are charming, delightful stories to read to your kids. Very cleverly thought out and written. Fun reads.This particular one is my favorite of them all.
Probably one of my favorites out of the series, I still remember (and this has been at least 20 years since I read it) many of the details. Great series of books, little known though.
Tom gets himself into and out of trouble quite fluently in the fourth book in the Great Brain series. There were quite a few laughs in this one and we really enjoyed it as a family read-aloud.
I love this series, and this one has always been my favorite in the set. Tom's adventures away from home are excellent.
If you thought the priests could reform The Great Brain, think again! Like the other books in the series this is a must read and cannot put down.
Everything I know about Jesuit priests I learned from this book.
If you like funny or weird books, than The Great Brain Books are for you. There are at least five or six, and they are all individual stories, so it doesn't matter when you read any of them. The Great Brain at the Academy is especially great because it shows how kids think in different situations and how they react to events. The books will make you have mixed feelings for the characters and the events they experience. Overall, great easy book.
Good book which shows characterThe book was enjoyable, as are all The Great Brain books. There is conniving, unpunished crime, and Tom saying something isn't a sin which is (fooling a priest and breaking rules) making me recommend it to ten year olds and up. Than again I do think that for most children this book would be more delightful, interesting, and beautiful than Huckleberry Finn.
Although I loved all the Great Brain books, this one was my clear favorite. It was inspiring even as a young kid to see that another young kid could go through through the difficulties and pressures of a boarding school (which mercifully I did NOT go through) and still maintain his strength, resilience and stay true to himself. All in the 1800s no less!
It was great
i liked it
This is a great read. I really liked it.
Not as great as I remember as a kid, but still not too bad.
Our family loves this series. We read them all and are always laughing or talking about.
Hilarious!
I am getting to like that kid better.
Another great book in the series I'm reading to the kids! We sincerely enjoy each and every character and the hilarious hijinks of Tom!
Great book.
I'm too lazy to figure out how to mark spoilers, so just stop reading now if you don't want one of the many stories in this series to be ruined for you...I'm not sure if this story is even in this book, but basically, the youngest brother's dear rocking horse is stolen and Great Brain/Tom manages to get his father to promise him a reward if he finds it.
The whole family goes home, proud of the youngest brother (age 5 or so) and feeling so sad because the other little boy is dying.
John is still narrating (and is dramatic as ever, bless him), but it’s more of a “here’s what happened to Tom at school,” so most of the book is really third-person from Tom’s point of view.
I like these books, but I can only take so much of Tom’s antics.The Great Brain at the Academy is a good look at what sort of things Tom would get up to at school, though without the usual narrator to be alongside of him, Tom seems even more smug than usual.
Dari hukuman yang harus dia lakukan setiap hari yaitu membersihkan kamar mandi, Tom malah mendapat ide untuk teknis bisnis toko permennya.
Merekrut tiga orang yang paling setia padanya, Tom mendapatkan banyak laba dari toko permennya.
Karena itu lah justru nilai ekonomisnya bisa melambung tinggai :D.Seiring waktu, Tom menyadari bahwa superintendent yang tidak dia sukai selama ini, Father Rodriguez, ternyata adalah orang yang terhormat dan baik hati.
Tom dan Father Rodrigues dalam masalah karena Bishop tau betul kegiatan atletik tetap dilarang di sekolah Katholik.
Dengan kejujuran itu lah justru hati Bishop tersentuh.
