https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68930.They_Do_It_with_Mirrors
"Probabil că datorită unor probleme legate de institut venise Christian Gulbrandsen la Stonygates. Așa presupuneau domnișoara Bellever și ceilalți ai casei. Și totuși, Miss Marple avea unele îndoieli.""-Nu trebuie să ne lăsăm induși în eroare de momentul în care s-a auzit împușcătura, spuse inspectorul Curry. Șmecheria asta am mai întâlnit-o și înainte, știți. Stimularea unei împușcături pentru a stabili momentul exact al crimei, pe când ceea ce se urmărea de fapt era inducerea în eroare a anchetatorilor."
Ruth Van Rydock and her sister, Carrie Louise, knew Jane Marple as a young girl, when they were visiting Florence.
Like Ruth, Miss Marple is unable to quite put her finger on what seems wrong – but it is obvious that something is and, before long, there is a murder in the house.This is an unusual setting for a Miss Marple novel; although the juvenile delinquents are very much on the edges of the storyline; in many ways leaving this a typical country house murder mystery.
This is a very strong 3 stars as I quite enjoyed this Agatha Christie quickie!Having said that, They Do It with Mirrors reads like a Christie-by-numbers novel, written by rote like a facsimile of previous work with just a few of the words rearranged.
The characters, the setting, the plot and the outcome, it's all been done before.
I haven't read too many Miss Marple's.
The old dear and the settings/situations she's placed in are quite quaint and not entirely my cup of tea.
Having said that, I wouldn't say no to further Miss Marples.
ومع تقديم مشروع تخرجي أمس وانتهاء فترة الحياة الجامعية الى غير رجعة اعتقد ان البدء فى التعرف على اسلوب كاتب جديد سيكون خيار مناسب للغاية ، تاخرت تلك التجربة كثيرا ولكن حسنا لابأس ها قد حان الوقت للتعرف على سيدة الجريمة والالغاز بسم الله نبدء :)حسنا انتهيت منها في اقل من يومين .ربما يكفي اسم الكاتبة وعنوان الرواية بان يجعلا القاري يتوقع طبع ونوعية الرواية التي توجد أمامه ولكن من اراد نبذة مختصرة عنها فأحداثها تدور عن وقوع جريمة قتل في أحد المنازل بمدينة تدعي ستوني جيتس وبالتالى يصبح كل من يقيم في ذلك المنزل داخل دائرة الشك الا ان تكشف الرواية فى نهايتها عن هواية القاتل يقال ان أجاثا كريستي هي سيدة الجريمة والغموض وان اعمالها لن تجعلك تمل او تشعر بالضجر وان الحيرة لن تفارقك من أول صفحات الرواية وحتى أخر صفحات العمل وكشف اللغز الذي كان بها ..
Still, They Do It with Mirrors is a diverting read, a quick Christie satisfier.We begin with Miss Marple enjoying a few moments with a dear friend from boarding school days.
Ruth can’t tell Jane any concrete reason why she feels anxious about her sister, but would like Miss Marple to put her gentle investigatory skills to work.I love the few moments we have Miss Marple’s backstory as she shares reminiscences with Ruth and Carrie Louise.
* 3.5/5 stars! (I listened to this on audiobook.)
Miss Marple finds herself in a very different setting, a juvenile delinquents home/college when she is asked by old friend Ruth Van Rydock to look into the situation of her sister Carrie Louise.
Carrie Louise, also Miss Marple’s friend from her school days in Italy, lives in an old Victorian mansion and her husband Lewis Serrocold runs a centre for juveniles focusing on rehabilitation.
This time around Miss Marple seems to have some trouble with finding parallels to some of the people she meets immediately and it is a change in perspective (from one of the characters) that points her in the right direction.
We’re all a little mad.”Another very good murder mystery.
This one was perhaps a little light on the plot but on the other hand focused a lot more on the characters and their motivations.
It also felt very much like theatre, which in light of the context made perfect sense.
We have our cast of suspects all gathered in one setting, an old English family country home, and more secrets stashed in corners than you could imagine, with our beloved Miss Marple trading all these treacherous waters like a duck to water.
I do wonder if this has been used in real life - more than likely :O)
عزيزى القارىء, عندما تقرا عدة روايات او كتب مخيبة للأمال و تصاب بحالة من الاحباط -تماما كما حدث معى-لن ينتشلك من يأسك الا رواية من روايات أجاثا كريستى مهما كان تقدم سنك و مهما كانت خبراتك فى الحياة, سيتم خداعك امام عينك بحيل بسيطة و ساذجة الحبكة أكثر من رائعة
2.5A thing about Christie's Miss Marple novels that I don't like is that some of them (though not many) give an impression of laziness that I find particularly unpleasant, and I usually end up not knowing what to make of such cases. This is precisely what happened with They Do It With Mirrors: I found it lazy, and I was disappointed. Not one of Christie's best.
The title is the only clue to the mystery you need - if you read it correctly, that is."They do it with mirrors" is what magicians do, figuratively speaking - misdirection. This is what murderers do, too.And mystery writers.
Ms. Marple spends some time with an old friend of hers, and stumbles on a murder. There wasn't a lot of extraneous stuff going on in this story (unlike Nemesis) and you get a sense of the various characters around Ms. Marple's friend. In retrospect, I realized that Christie had laid out some pretty big clues pointing to the baddie.
After dinner one night, one of Stonygates residents points a gun at Lewis Serrocold, Carrie's husband, and fires but its another person in the house that dies.
Not thinking it a coincidence, Miss Marple gets on the case.I was not planning on reading another Agatha Christie book just yet but when searching among my shelf for a fun and entertaining book, this title caught my eye.
In the sixth installment of the series, Miss Marple finds herself in Stonygates, a juvenile reform house, visiting her friend Carrie Loiuse.
This is the 1st book of agatha christie where I was able to guess the culprit from the start. Only the why of the crime was a surprise.
Another blockbuster of a Miss Marple novel. However in this novel, Miss Marple does not relapse so frequently into the past or her beloved village. Strangely mirror is used as a metaphor here with the actual mirror having nothing to do with the plot. The end is as always quite a twist.
An old school friend of Miss Marple (Ruth) shows up on one of her flying trips from the US and asks our detective to see what's wrong with her sister's family.
Miss Marple agreed to help out and planned a visit to her other old friend, Carrie Louise.Carrie Louise was an idealist who believed only in good and was a nice person who went out of her way to help people out.
The mystery is pretty good and the characters are decent.
I do, though, and I wanted a village mystery with typical characters.
An exciting and absorbing Miss Marple mystery!Miss Marple is tipped off that an old friend might be in trouble...in fact she may be being poisoned. It's time for a visit to the country! (Cue huge country house in fog and everyone is bonkers yeah!)But then someone gets shot and Miss Marple has to unravel all the clues through the smoke and mirrors.Highly recommended for cosy mystery fans everywhere.
A book I just don't remember reading and another great example of Miss Marple's expertise.Again a great story by Agatha Christie, with some wonderful characters and an intricate plot that I certainly never guessed.Well worth reading if one has never read a Miss Marple before. Lets be honest they have all been good so far, and only 3 to go, (sad face).
I really enjoyed this one. Very good fun, well written and engaging. The only Agatha Christie I've figured out before the end!
Unfortunately, I just lost my motivation about halfway through as the mystery itself didn't really hold my attention.Miss Marple's childhood friend Ruth Van Rydock has recently visited her sister Carrie Louise at her Victorian estate, which is now home to a home for delinquent boys, run by Carrie Louise's third husband, a well known philanthropist.
Carrie Louise's stepson from a previous marriage is found dead, while everyone else was witnessing a violent altercation between her husband and one of the delinquent boys.Police are called in to investigate, but of course it's Miss Marple that really wins the day, as usual.
دومین کتابی بود که از آگاتا کریستی میخوندم و حتی از "جسدی در کتابخانه" هم پیچیده تر بود و اینبار احساس میکردم که تعداد کاراکتر هاش بیشتر از کتاب قبلی هست و یکم گیج میشدم ولی این پیچیدگی اش و اینکه تا لحظات آخر نمیتونستم حدس بزنم مغز متفکر قتل های داستان کیه هم برای خودش واقعا هیجان انگیز بود و میشه گفت شیفته ی این سبک از کتاب ها شدم و دوست دارم کتاب های دیگه ی این نویسنده رو هم بخونم ...
Unfortunately, I spoiled this book by watching serie Miss Marple, so I already knew the murder, and basically almost the entire story (but there were some differences in book, that were changed in serie, small ones), and the entire magic was gone!But, anyway, I loved that character Edgar Lawson, because he was supposed to be a schizophrenic.
So, warm recommendations, it's easy read, interesting story, the killer is using a magician's trick, and he did it with mirrors!
One of my favourite Miss Marple books so far.Here, Jane goes to visit a friend she hasn't seen in decades - Carrie Louise - who lives in a huge Victorian mansion ; and because she is so philanthropic and empathetic it also serves as a rehab centre for juvenile criminals. There are attempted murders, and an actual one, and Miss Marple has to employ some lateral thinking to uncover the truth.
لأول مرة أكتشف القاتل منذ وقوع الجريمة، هل لأن القاتل دوما هو أبعد من يكون من ساحة الإتهام أم أن الحبكة لم تكن كما يبدو، لا أدري ولكني لم أنبهر هنا..
How ironic. When I have finally settled with myself that it's quite a useless thing to secondguess Agatha Christie's mysteries, it does come as a big surprised that I did guess it right this time. Even though so many smokescreens were thrown in the way, I just can't shake off my suspicion of the suspect. Does this means that I am getting better at reading the clues? ;-)
I also didn't especially care for the person they were supposedly all trying to protect: she's one of those older ladies Christie writes somethimes, very nice and very vague and very ethereal.Also, it seemed to me that Christie's tendency to write mostly dialogue was taken a bit too far on this one, and instead of a fast-paced but rich reading, which is her usual, we're definitely entering "talking head" territory.So, this one might actually be a rarity among my Christie collection: a book that I won't be rereading.
This is only the sixth Miss Marple that Agatha Christie wrote, like many of the early ones it is perhaps a little less polished, a little more exploitative than they became after Christie's characters and writing style were more set. Personally I like the earlier ones better and this was a great example of that early writing, with an English manor house, two generations and their different view points, the perspicuity of Miss Marple and the gimmick - that is kind of predicted by the title.
Λατρεύω της Μις Μάρπλ... το διάβασα πολύ γρήγορα αλλά είχα καταλάβει ποιος ήταν ο/η δολοφόνος... αλλά όχι το κίνητρο του/της :)
Not one of Christie's finest, in terms of writing and characterization; but I did enjoy it. It's always fun to watch Miss Marple at work. (view spoiler)[I have to admit, I'm getting a trifle tired of the "nobody thinks it could possibly be the husband but it IS" plot twist. Christie used it to great effect in some of her best books, but here I think she was just repeating herself and recycling an idea that didn't really fit. (hide spoiler)]
While I have read dozens of books with Hercule Poirot, I haven't read that many with Miss Marple, so I'm trying to remedy that.
I do like her: the scenes where everyone assumes she is a quiet and harmless old lady are always very funny.
They Do It With Mirrors is a short and fun mystery where, as usual, the solution and the murderer are definitely shocking and quite impossible to guess.
The solution is overall very ingenious.
Not as good as Murder at the Vicarage, which remains my favourite Miss Marple book, but still very enjoyable.
