https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133729.Lucky_Man
I watched Family Ties pretty religiously as a kid and Back To The Future made Fox my boyhood hero.Having read Lucky Man, I find Fox has become a hero to me as an adult as well.
It’s that he seems like a genuinely stand up guy, someone who, while making mistakes here and there, is a good person with a good heart.
I also liked reading about how he worked through his troubles and not only admitted to his mistakes but did something about them.That Fox wound up being an advocate and crusader for Parkinson’s research is appropriate and admirable.
Audiobook narrated by the author.Michael J Fox was barely thirty years old when he was diagnosed with Parkinson’s Disease.
At the height of his career, and with a young family, he kept that diagnosis a very closely guarded secret.
But in 1998, seven years after his diagnosis, he publicly revealed that he had Parkinson’s, retired from his hit television show, Spin City, and began a new career as a spokesperson for research into Parkinson’s and other neurological disorders.
Fox narrates the audio version of the book himself, which really gives the listener a feeling of hearing his story person-to-person.
However, the audio is an abridged version of the book.
Fox's memoir, Lucky Man, falls under both categories: medicine (for his thoughts on living with Parkinson's Disease) and Canada (born in Edmonton, Alberta).
Lucky Man also qualifies as one of the best books I've read this year.Fox begins his memoir with his diagnosis of young-onset Parkinson's Disease but the book isn't just about living with PD but about all the ups and downs of his life and who he has grown as a person.
As a child, I was a huge fan of Michael J Fox...
In all of this, I had absolutely no idea of the struggles and pain that he went through.But this book is not a depressing read, even if your heart will tug at the words written within its pages.
In the words of Fox, if he was approached by someone that said the could take him back to before he got Parkinsons and cure him, he would tell them to get lost.
I formed tears.Michael J Fox, you are an amazing human being!
I feel like this:The strength, humility, courage, and inspiration in this book are beyond words.
Michael J.
Fox is an iconic actor from my childhood, and this book totally blew my mind!
At first, I could not believe that he had written this himself, but the comedic timing and self deprecation left me in no doubt and turned that thought right on its head.
He was open about personal tragedy, his relationships, his battle with PD and alcohol in a way that no memoir or autobiography I'd ever read has been -- and I lapped it up!
This book is motivating and well worth the time -- Read it!
I picked it up in the hopes that it would give me a better idea what to expect when I visit a dear friend with the disease this summer.Best known for being the star of Family Ties and the Back to the Future movies, Fox was living a life that most people can only dream of when he was diagnosed with Young Onset Parkinson's Disease at the age of 30.
Fox than it is about Parkinson's Disease, I did learn enough about it and the challenges PD patients face to better understand my friend's condition.
It was pretty moving to hear how much of a mess his personal life had become due to all his professional success and the complete turnaround once he finally acknowledged his disease.This book made me think a lot about my mom's experience with early onset Parkinson's and the symptoms I see when I go home to visit.
I never knew that so many Parkinson's patience try to keep it their disease hidden and worry about losing their job or being ridiculed.I think this is a good book for anybody interested in Michael J Fox or the experience of living with Parkinson's.
While this memoir is indeed the life story of Michael J. Fox, his rise to fame as an actor, and his struggle to accept and deal with Parkinson's Disease, his incredible writing takes it a step further. He elucidates on his relationships and motivations in such a way that I found many parallels to the demons that I battle in my life - which are nothing like Parkinson's Disease. His writing is thoughtful, funny, wry, and humble... all the things I'd have expected of him from his public persona. I loved this memoir.
If they said “they expected low quality writing from a bus-driver”, it would be a slur.
Many remarked: “celebrities don’t write their books”; now tarnishing expectation with an opposite bias.
Michael is simply a person who has become an author.I was dismayed 90% through, that animal-testing was mentioned as if it were okay.
Testing is for volunteers; not for inducing disease on frightened critters.
He writes the way he speaks, which is engaging.
I was surprised by personal items he divulged and appreciated the staggered trail style, that guides us between his childhood and diagnosis, all the way to Esmé’s birth at publication time!
He writes gracefully of the denial and turmoil that rocked his world upon receiving the diagnosis, and how ultimately acceptance (“I was still me just me plus Parkinson’s”) has set new, healthier parameters for his life, hence his self-designation as a lucky man.
Fox now uses his fame to raise awareness and funding for a Parkinson’s cure, one that many scientists believe possible with sufficient financing.
A very intimate and personal memoir of a brilliant actor and an inspiring man.
He is an intelligent and witty writer who takes good care of your emotions as he steers you through the roller-coaster of his life and his own emotions.
Goode scene in BTTF2 due to the symptoms of Parkinson's already taking their unknown toll on his young body.
His futile attempts at denial for so long, before the whole-hearted acceptance and the beginning of the most rewarding time of his life, to date.
What the book also does is to offer a fascinating look in to film and film-making.
I've never been interested in the lives of celebrities (for instance, I was unaware of his partying days), and the few celebrity memoirs/books I've read have always left me dissatisfied and usually with a more negative picture of the person behind the characters I like.
I admire Fox more for the flaws he was willing to own up to and take responsibility for; I appreciate his ability to explain his actions without turning that explanation into an excuse; and I applaud the efforts he and his family have made to enjoy life instead of just live.Many celebrities use their fame to launch successful clothing lines or perfumes, or as an excuse to get away with things average people would never be able to get away with.
I listened to the audio book read by Michael J.
I've always been a fan and have admired his public advocacy work for Parkinson's, and it was really great to learn the back story of his rise to fame, his diagnosis, and his family life.
He understandably wasn't ready to make his disease public right away, and listening to him go through the transformation from hiding it to finally testifying before Congress while off his medication only built my admiration for him.
He also benefited from a family (grandmother, parents, siblings, and wife) who kept him grounded--mostly.
I would recommend this, especially as an audio book.
This book was fantastic, inspirational, engaging, you name it.
I don't know if Michael had a shadow writer or not.
If not, then he could certainly have a future as a writer.
This story, which covers his career both before and after he was diagnosed with Parkinson's Disease, was gripping and I would recommend it to anyone, not just those suffering in a similar way to him.
The attitude he has developed (I say 'developed' because it's clear he wasn't able to view it this way at first) towards his illness is inspiring and will make anyone think twice before they settle for misery over optimism.
Funny, honest, engaging, real....if, for some reason, you need yet another reason to love Michael j. Fox listen to this audiobook. He reads it and you really feel like you're just sitting around having a beer with him. Love love love!
Still, until reading this book, little did I realize that Michael was like a clown, happy on the outside but sad on the inside.
From his feelings about the disease, his wife Tracy Polland (the love of his life), his GED, his fans (we’re in here, and you’re out there, and frankly, we like it that way), and show business.
“And I don’t know about you, but I think I look pretty darn cute!” But more profoundly, and here the book really touched me, he shared how PD forced him to let go of his own life.
It's especially hard with someone of huge celebrity status, as I always find myself taking their words with a grain of salt (assuming they've written any of the words on their own anyway).Knowing very little of any recent events in Mr. Fox's life, however, and only having a vague knowledge of the events in this book, the words came across as gut-wrenchingly honest, both hopeful and painful, and with a compelling story that could not fail to draw me in from the very first page.
What makes his story stand out, of course, is his candor about his battle with Parkinson's Disease.
I had no idea Michael was so sick, and had such a difficult life.
While I did not respect ways he wasted his body by alcohol, drugs, and stupid habits before he found out, at a still very young age of mid-20s, about his Parkinson's disease, his remarkable change to a new man was a very good story.
It was hard not to notice Michael J.
With patients of long term disabilities and incurable diseases, it is not uncommon for them to form a relationship or understanding with the culprit that is holding the control panel of their life in his evil hands.
Fox is the embodiment of that spirit.
I don't know why, but I expected this book to be funnier and less introspective than it turned out to be.
Now that I think about it, a book about one's discovery that they have Parkinson's disease isn't a laughing matter and is most definitely cause for deep reflection.
Fox has always played witty, somewhat cynical characters led me to expect that from this book which I know is silly considering he's an ACTOR!
At any rate, it was a refreshing look into how a public figure handled a very private matter and how a debilitating disease actually led to his finding peace and freedom and fulfillment.
Listened to this on my drive across state. Read by the author (yay) and abridged (boo). A rambling memoir between career and disease and coping with both. I enjoyed parts of this book despite the writing style. Wouldn't seek out the unabridged version. Learned a lot about Parkinson's Disease. Now have a strong desire to rewatch Family Ties. Overall rating - liked it but didn't love it.
I fell in love with Michael J. Fox after reading his later book,  Always Looking Up: The Adventures of an Incurable Optimist,  which is about his Parkinson's Disease and his advocacy for stem cell research. I've been wanting to read this one ever since.  Lucky Man  is older, and thus takes us through the 1980s (his rise to fame) and the 1990s (the years he knew he had PD but hid it). He is insanely likable and even when describing his young n' wild partying years he comes off as sweet and charming.
I grew up with Fox and have followed with amazement and awe how he embraced the potentially devastating diagnosis of Parkinson's and turned it into a passion and cause. This isn't the most well-written book and I admit that I liked it because Fox was always a favorite and because my father has PD and I'm intrigued by the different avenues people take when receiving a diagnosis of a degenerative neurological disease. Fox's optimism is impressive as is his realization that he can use his celebrity for something truly meaningful.
I grew up watching Michael on TV and have always liked him, even though I never normally read celebrity books when I saw this one I just had to buy it. This is a very open and honest account of Michael's life, from growing up as a kid in Canada to his first break and stardom and of course being diagnosed with PD. It is beautifully written and I felt many emotions whilst reading. Definitely one of my favourite books read this year.
This book is exactly like the title. Michael J Fox is indeed a lucky man. He have everything in his life. Money and a supportive wife. So perfect! Even though he has Parkinson disease, nothing have stopped him from moving forward. A pleasure to read.
I have always been a fan of Michael J Fox's acting skills, but now he has shown me that he is also an accomplished writer.
This is a good book for recovering alcoholics to read.
A good biography, interesting and well written.
The challenges he grappled with while becoming a celebrity.4.
The biggest personal challenge that blindsided him, PD.5.
How he chose to embrace it and ultimately became a voice for millions of people suffering with PD and advocating for research funding on their behalf.It's clear that Fox's family and the team of people supporting him, played a vital role in helping him through his struggles.
In the end it was also clear that Fox did not become victim to PD, rather through this disease he gained a new, richer, purpose in life by taking on a role to help others.
This memoir underlines Fox’s life with Parkinson’s, his story of struggle and adaptation is truly inspiring.
With fascinating detail and his trademark humor Michael J Fox describe his inspirational story of overcoming coming Parkinson’s disease.
Michael J Fox’s story has always been fascinating to me so when I first encountered this book I knew I would have to try it….
This book has a particullary meaning due to my grandfather Thomas Bolster dying from Parkinson's disease before I was born ; therefore, Fox helped me understand how PD must had affected him and his family.
This book covers his struggles with his personal, family, and public life and how this debilitating disease has in someways helped him to become a better person.
I find it remarkable that he is able to say that.One of the interesting things I found out by reading this book is that ironically, not only was Fox really bad in school save drama, music and art he actually dropped out of high school to pursue his career in acting.
He sat before a Senate sub-committee twice to lobby for funds to help research for the disease.A couple of things I want to note that is outside the review of the actual book.
